 Case Number:  23AVCV00657    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a wrongful eviction
action. Plaintiff Mary Therese Detevis (“Plaintiff”) alleges that she entered a
lease agreement with Defendant Mohill Holdings, LP (“Defendant”), which allowed
her to maintain the premises at 38728 5th Street E, Unit 4, Palmdale, CA 93550
(the “Property”). Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant initiated and served
a 30-Day Notice to Quit, dated May 23, 2023; Defendant did not initiate an
unlawful detained (“UD”) action to lawfully evict her; Defendant entered the
Property without Plaintiff’s permission and without 24 hour written notice; and
Plaintiff is currently denied access to the Property. 
 
On June 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed
her Complaint alleging two causes of action for Illegal Lockout of Tenant and
Trespass. 
 
On October 04, 2023, Plaintiff
filed her First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging five causes of action for:
(1) Illegal Lockout of Tenant; (2) Trespass; (3) Violation of LAMC §§ 151.09, 152.05;
(4) Negligence; and (5) Unfair Business Practice Violation of Cal. Bus. &
Prof. Code § 17200, et seq.
 
On December 07, 2023, Defendant
filed this Demurrer with Motion to Strike as to the FAC.
 
On January 09, 2024, Plaintiff
filed her Oppositions. 
 
On January 16, 2024, Defendant
filed its Replies. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) ¿When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power¿(2006)
144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.¿ (Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters.¿ (SKF Farms v.
Superior Court¿(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)¿ Therefore,
it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed.¿¿(Ibid.)¿¿The
only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether
the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a
cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿
A
general demurrer admits the truth of all factual, material allegations properly
pled in the challenged pleading, regardless of possible difficulties of
proof.¿¿(Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿ Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable,
plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on
the demurrer.¿¿(Del E. Webb Corp. v.
Structural Materials Co.¿(1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)¿
Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations expressing mere
conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits to the
complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995) 36
Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)¿A general demurrer does not admit contentions,
deductions, or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.¿¿(Blank,¿supra, 39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿
Pursuant
to¿Code Civ. Proc.¿§430.10(e), the party against whom a complaint has been
filed may object by demurrer to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an
abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is a
reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City of Los Angeles¿(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074,
1082,¿as modified Dec. 23, 2003.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿
¿¿
-----
 
Standard for a Motion to Strike – The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id.,
§ 436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has
irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in
conformity with laws. (Id.
§ 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the
pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id.
§ 437.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿
¿¿
-----¿¿
¿¿
Meet and Confer Requirement – Before filing a demurrer or a motion to strike,
the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the party who
filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the motion to
strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be reached
through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41 and 435.5.) Counsel for
Defendant, Loan Dao (“Dao”), declares that Plaintiff has not provided an email
address or phone number and all communications have been sent via U.S. Mail.
(Decl. Dao ¶ 4.) Dao states that he has been unable to meet and confer with
Plaintiff. (Ibid.)
A determination by the court that the meet and confer process was
insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer or motion
to strike. (See Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 430.41(a)(4), 435.5(a)(4). The Court
addresses the Demurrer and Motion to Strike on their respective merits.
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – 
 
i.       Demurrer
 
Defendant demurs to the First
Cause of Action (Illegal Lockout), Second Cause of Action (Trespass), and Third
Cause of Action (Violation of LAMC §§ 151.09, 152.05). 
 
The Court notes that Plaintiff
has included arguments to the Fourth Cause of Action (Negligence) and Fifth
Cause of Action (Unfair Business Practice Violation of Cal. Bus. & Prof.
Code § 17200, et seq.) in her Opposition. The Court need not address
these arguments as those causes of action have not been demurred to. 
 
Defendant’s Reply includes new
arguments, highlighting that they are simply responding to Plaintiff’s
arguments and presenting that they will be prejudiced if the Court does not
consider the new arguments. 
 
The Court does not consider
Defendant’s new Reply arguments for the following reasons:
 
·      
As Defendant correctly concedes, consideration
of new arguments will deprive Plaintiff of an ability to respond. (See Reply
5:8-11 [citing Contractors’ State License Bd. v. Superior Court (2018)
23 Cal.App.5th 125].)
·      
Defendant’s new arguments are related to
sections that Defendant has not demurred to. The Court discussed Plaintiff’s
attempt to causes of action that were not demurred to, ante. 
 
 
a.     First
Cause of Action (Illegal Lockout)
 
Defendant cites the code pled in
the Complaint for this action – Cal. Civ. Code § 789.3. Defendant highlights that
Plaintiff has conceded that a fire occurred at the property that made the unit
uninhabitable which led to the 30-Day Notice. (See FAC ¶¶ 12-13.) Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has been disallowed access to an uninhabitable unit and
30 days was given to allow Plaintiff to remove her property and, as such, there
is no showing of any intentional, willful, or malicious conduct by Defendant.
Defendant discusses that when a unit becomes uninhabitable the planning and
building department will usually red tag the place and will not allow anyone to
reside in the premises and if it allowed Plaintiff to continue to reside on the
Property, Defendant would be subject to various fines.
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s
argument is focused on her failure to allege that Defendant did not change the
locks, remove doors or windows, and remove Plaintiff’s personal property.
Plaintiff highlights that Cal. Civ. Code § 789.3 provides takes into
consideration similar methods. Plaintiff presents that it is clear that she has
been locked out and it is obvious that the locks were changed since Plaintiff
was locked out and denied access. Plaintiff directs the Court and the parties
to her declaration which includes email messages from Defendant. 
 
Defendant’s Reply argues that
Plaintiff does not address Defendant’s arguments that Defendant did not
“willfully” prevent Plaintiff from gaining “reasonable” access to the Property,
reiterating Plaintiff’s allegation that “[w]hat led to the Defendant giving
Plaintiff the 30 [D]ay-notice was … a fire that essentially made the living
unit uninhabitable.” (FAC ¶ 12.)
 
Defendant’s discussion of red
tags and fines which they would occur must be disregarded as they are out of
the scope of this Demurrer and not subject to judicial notice. (See Legal
Standard, ante.) Likewise, Plaintiff’s discussion of emails between the
parties may not be considered for the same reason. (See ibid.)
 
Defendant’s presentation of what
the FAC says and what the FAC actually says are different. The FAC reads, in
relevant part:
 
Defendant is aware
or should have been aware as a property owner, or landlord, of its obligation
to provide relocation assistance to Plaintiff in accordance with the Los
Angeles County Rent Stabilization Ordinance, but instead of providing any
relocation assistance, Defendant intentionally or with conscious disregard,
disregarded the following pertaining to Plaintiff: 
 
• What lead to the
Defendant giving Plaintiff the 30 day-notice was due to a fire that essentially
made the living unit uninhabitable. . .
 
[. . .]
 
Immediately after
the fire, Defendant informed Plaintiff in writing that she would be locked out
of her apartment and was prevented from entering her unit because of the
Defendants insurance underwriting reasons several times. At that time,
Plaintiff was told by employees of Palmdale City and the Gas company that the
apartment had not been tagged as "uninhabitable" and they informed
Plaintiff that she had a legal right to allow city inspectors into her
apartment.
 
(FAC ¶¶ 12-13 [emphasis added].)
 
The FAC concedes that (1) a fire
occurred; (2) that the fire damaged the Property making it “essentially”
uninhabitable; and (3) it was not red tagged as uninhabitable by the City of
Palmdale and the gas company. Thus, there is an issue of whether Plaintiff
should have been allowed access to the Property.
 
Cal. Civ. Code § 789.3 provides
in relevant part as follows:
 
(a) A landlord shall
not with intent to terminate the occupancy under any lease or other tenancy or
estate at will, however created, of property used by a tenant as his residence
willfully cause, directly or indirectly, the interruption or termination of any
utility service furnished the tenant, including, but not limited to, water,
heat, light, electricity, gas, telephone, elevator, or refrigeration, whether
or not the utility service is under the control of the landlord.
 
(b) In addition, a
landlord shall not, with intent to terminate the occupancy under any lease or
other tenancy or estate at will, however created, of property used by a tenant
as his or her residence, willfully:
 
(1) Prevent the
tenant from gaining reasonable access to the property by changing the locks or
using a bootlock or by any other similar method or device;
 
(2) Remove outside
doors or windows; or
 
(3) Remove from the
premises the tenant's personal property, the furnishings, or any other items
without the prior written consent of the tenant, except when done pursuant to
the procedure set forth in Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 1980) of Title 5 of
Part 4 of Division 3.
 
(Cal. Civ. Code § 789.3.)
 
Plaintiff has clearly alleged
that Defendant locked her out. (See FAC ¶ 20 [“. . .Defendant intentionally
ignored Plaintiff’s right and locked her out and denied her reasonable access
to her unit. . .”].) 
 
Plaintiff has adequately alleged
a violation of Cal. Civ. Code § 789.3. 
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
First Cause of Action (Illegal Lockout) is OVERRULED.
 
b.    
Second Cause of Action (Trespass)
 
Defendant presents that trespass
requires five elements. However, landlords are entitled to enter the premises
in cases of emergency without advance notice, citing to Civil Code § 1954
(a)(1) and (e)(1), and Miller & Starr, 10 Cal. Real Est. § 34:57 (4th ed.).
Defendant presents that the FAC lacks sufficient evidence to show intentional,
reckless, or negligent entry onto the property and lack of permission for entry
as the FAC is vague as to when the entry occurred and, if entry occurred after
the fire, it cannot be deemed intentional, reckless, or negligent.
 
Plaintiff argues that an
inference can be made that there was no emergency as, if there was an
emergency, the 30-Day Notice would serve no purpose. That is, Defendant never
treated this as an emergency and since it was not treated as an emergency,
Defendant was required to five 24-hour notice before entering the unit.
Plaintiff further argues that Defendant cannot self-certify the circumstances
as an emergency. 
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff
does not address Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff’s Second Cause of Action
(Trespass) is uncertain and that Plaintiff fails to plead facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action for trespass, citing that the Property was
uninhabitable as alleged in paragraph 12 of the FAC. 
 
“ ‘Trespass is an unlawful
interference with possession of property.’ The elements of trespass are: (1)
the plaintiff’s ownership or control of the property; (2) the defendant’s
intentional, reckless, or negligent entry onto the property; (3) lack of
permission for the entry or acts in excess of permission; (4) harm; and (5) the
defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing the harm. (See CACI No.
2000.)” (Ralphs Grocery Co. v. Victory Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17
Cal.App.5th 245, 261-62.)
 
As discussed, ante, there
is an issue of whether Plaintiff should have had access to the property as it
was not red tagged as uninhabitable by the City of Palmdale and the gas
company. (See FAC ¶ 13.) Further, from the Complaint, a reasonable inference
can be made that the alleged entry and lockout occurred after the fire. The use
of a 30-Day Notice, as alleged, supports Plaintiff’s position that the
emergency had passed and Defendant does not deny entry onto the Property. However,
the Court believes that whether the timing of the entry constituted an
emergency is outside the scope of this Demurrer and is better suited for a
different motion. 
 
Plaintiff has pled: (1) Plaintiff
leased/had control of the Property (FAC ¶ 5); (2) Defendant entered the
Property (id. at ¶¶ 9 25); (3) Plaintiff did not give Defendant
permission to enter the property/no proper notice was given (ibid.); (4)
Plaintiff was harmed as she currently has no access to the Property (id.
¶ 25). Thus, the elements for trespass have been met. 
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the
Second Cause of Action (Trespass) is OVERRULED.
 
c.     
Third Cause of Action (Violation of LAMC §§
151.09, 152.05)
 
As an initial matter, but
unaddressed by either party, is whether the Los Angeles Municipal Code (“LAMC”)
applies to the Property.
 
The Court takes judicial notice
of the LAMC under Cal. Evid. Code § 452(b) and (h). The Court includes the LAMC
as part of the record in this action and provides this tentative to afford each
party reasonable opportunity to meet such information before judicial notice of
the matter may be taken. (See Cal. Evid. Code § 455(b).)
 
LAMC § 11.00(g) provides: 
 
Reference to Acts
or Omissions Within This City. This Code shall refer only to the omission
or commission of acts within the territorial limits of the City of Los Angeles
and that territory outside of this City over which the City has jurisdiction or
control by virtue of the Constitution, Charter or any law, or by reason of
ownership or control of property.
 
The Court takes judicial notice
of Palmdale’s City Charter under Cal. Evid. Code § 452(b) and (h). The Court
includes Palmdale’s City Charter as part of the record in this action and
provides this tentative to afford each party reasonable opportunity to meet
such information before judicial notice of the matter may be taken. (See Cal.
Evid. Code § 455(b).)
 
The Palmdale City Charter reads,
in relevant part:
 
WE THE PEOPLE of
the City of Palmdale declare our intent to restore to our community the
historic principles of self-governance inherent in the doctrine of home-rule.
Sincerely committed to the belief that local government has the closest
affinity to the people governed, and firm in conviction that the economic and
fiscal independence of our local government will better serve and promote the
health, safety and welfare of all the citizens of this City, we do hereby
exercise the express right granted by the Constitution of the State of
California to enact and adopt this Charter for the City of Palmdale.
 
[. . .]
 
ARTICLE 1.
MUNICIPAL AFFAIRS
 
Section 100.
Powers of the City.
The City shall
have full power and authority to adopt, make, exercise and enforce all legislation,
laws and regulations and to take all actions relating to municipal affairs,
without limitation, which may be lawfully adopted, made, exercised, taken or
enforced under the Constitution of the State of California
 
Section 101.
Municipal Affairs; Generally.
Without limiting
in any manner the foregoing power and authority, each of the matters set forth
in this Charter are declared to be municipal affairs, consistent with the laws
of the State of California. The implementation of each matter uniquely benefits
the citizens of the city of Palmdale and addresses peculiarly local concerns
within the City of Palmdale. The municipal affairs set forth in this Charter
are not intended to be an exclusive list of municipal affairs over which the
City Council may govern.
 
Due to this charter, Palmdale has
its own municipal codes. The Property is alleged to be within Palmdale. As
such, LAMC does not apply to the Property. 
 
Defendant arguments are within
the LAMC and, as such, are irrelevant. 
 
The Court does not strike this
cause of action as there has been no request to do so. 
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer to the Third
Cause of Action (Violation of LAMC §§ 151.09, 152.05) is OVERRULED.
 
ii.    
Motion to Strike
 
Defendant seeks to strike the
request for punitive damages within the Prayer.
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
FAC fails to show that it acted with oppression, fraud, or malice. Defendant
argues that it provided notice and is allowed to enter the premises without
notice due to emergency, that doctors will always prescribe a patient with
proper medication after a surgery, and Plaintiff’s claim that Defendant’s agent
Josue Garia abused her is conclusory. 
 
Plaintiff emphasizes that she
does not have to put her case on trial with evidence to prove punitive damages
at the pleading stage and that the contents of the FAC are accepted as true at
this point in time.
 
Defendant argues that the
assertions in the FAC are contradictory and do not support that Defendant acted
with the prerequisite malice, fraud, or oppression for punitive damages. Defendant
highlights paragraph 12 of the FAC which reads, in relevant part: “What lead to
the Defendant giving Plaintiff the 30 day-notice was due to a fire that essentially
made the living unit uninhabitable . . .” Defendant presents that it issued
a 30-Day Notice for safety reasons which “obviously means that Defendant did
not intend to cause injury to the Plaintiff or disregard Plaintiff’s safety.”
(Reply 2:23-24.) Defendant highlights Plaintiff’s allegation regarding
relocation assistance, providing argument regarding LAMC. Defendant further
argues that all cases require facts in support of punitive damages to be pled
with specificity and that Plaintiff misrepresented their argument in her
Opposition and such misrepresentation does not establish that Plaintiff should
be allowed to pursue punitive damages claims.
 
The Court declines to discuss the
LAMC arguments and directs the parties to its analysis of the LAMC and its
applicability, ante.
 
As to whether the allegations are
sufficient, to succeed on a motion to strike punitive damages
allegations, it must be said as a matter of law that the alleged behavior was
not so vile, base, or contemptible that it would not be looked down upon and
despised by ordinary decent people. (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995)
37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228-1229.) Civil Code section 3294, subsection (a)
authorizes punitive damages “where the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” (Civil Code §3294(a).) “In order to
survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the
ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a
plaintiff. In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike,
judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole,
all parts in their context, and assume their truth. In ruling on a motion to
strike, courts do not read allegations in isolation.” (Clauson v. Superior
Ct. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) 
 
Cal. Civ. Code § 3924(c) provides the
following definitions: 
 
·       
“Malice”
means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. 
·       
“Oppression”
means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights. 
·       
“Fraud”
means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material
fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury. 
 
Further willful misconduct may be inferred
from an actor’s conduct: 
 
Three essential elements must be present to
raise a negligent act to the level of wilful [sic] misconduct: (1) actual or
constructive knowledge of the peril to be apprehended, (2) actual or
constructive knowledge that injury is a probable, as opposed to a possible,
result of the danger, and (3) conscious failure to act to avoid the
peril. 
 
[. . .] 
 
If conduct is sufficiently lacking in
consideration for the rights of others, reckless, heedless to an extreme, and
indifferent to the consequences it may impose, then, regardless of the actual
state of mind of the actor and his actual concern for the rights of others, we
call it wilful [sic] misconduct, and apply to it the consequences and legal
rules which we use in the field of intended torts. 
 
(New v. Consolidated Rock Products Co.
(1985) 171 Cal.App.3d 681, 689-90 (“New”).) 
 
The Court notes that it has
addressed the emergency argument, ante, and directs the parties to the
discussion on page seven. 
 
Plaintiff has alleged (1) abuse
from Defendant’s employee Josue Garcia (FAC ¶ 14); (2) that she had to cancel
medical appointments and undergo a surgery without medications and medical
records (id. at ¶ 15); (3) that she was unable to meet with autoimmune
specialists as she did not have her work up records and has become very sick
(id. at ¶ 16); and (4) that she lacks access to the Property (see id.
[generally]). 
 
As Defendant correctly points
out, the allegation of abuse is vague and conclusory. However, the Court need
not take action as there has been no demurrer or request to strike as to this
allegation.  
 
Defendant’s Motion to Strike has
not addressed various portions of the FAC which discuss malice and conscious
disregard, including the Fourth Cause of Action (Negligence) and the Fifth
Cause of Action (Unfair Business Practice Violation of Cal. Bus. & Prof.
Code § 17200, et seq.).
 
The Court cannot strike punitive
damages as no argument is given to relevant portions of the FAC which allege
malice. 
 
Accordingly, the Motion to Strike
is DENIED.
 
-----
 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Mohill Holdings, LP’s
Demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
Defendant Mohill Holdings, LP’s Motion to Strike is
DENIED. 