 Case Number:  23AVCV01144    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a defamation action. Plaintiffs
Craig Van Dam (“Craig”)[1];
Marta Van Dam (“Marta”); and Craig Van Dam Farms, LLC (“Van Dam Farms” and
collectively “Plaintiffs”) allege that on October 03, 2023, Defendant Lucy
Faddoul (“Defendant”) published a comment on Facebook wherein she made a number
of false statements and injurious allegations, including:
 
·      
“To all of my Antelope Valley followers if you
have anything to do with the Vandam [sic] family, I would be extremely
careful…Evil, evil, evil who hide behind the word of God;”
·      
“They make fun of special needs adults calling
them retards…;”
·      
“…and will do things to break up marriages and
relationships;” and 
·      
They will make up lie after lie…”
 
Plaintiffs present that Defendant
has a social media presence due to her status in the community and her time as
a reality television actress. Plaintiffs further allege that Defendants’ post acts
as a deterrent to retain current customers and to attract prospective
customers, thereby causing damages in the form of lost consumers. 
 
On October 10, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed their Complaint alleging five causes of action for: (1) Defamation Per
Se; (2) Defamation; (3) Trade Libel; (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress (“IIED”); and (4) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress (“NIED”).

 
On December 04, 2023, Defendant
filed this Anti-SLAPP Motion to Strike. 
On January 09, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed their Opposition.
 
On January 12, 2024 Defendant
filed her Reply, including objections.
 
On January 16, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed amended declarations and Defendant filed objections to the amended
declarations. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Special Motion to Strike under
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16 – Under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16, a cause of action asserted
against a person arising from any act of that person in furtherance of his/her
right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitution, in connection with a public issue, is subject to a special motion
to strike, unless the court determines that the plaintiff has established that
there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim. (Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 425.16(b)(1); See also Wilbanks v. Wolk (2004) 121
Cal.App.4th 883, 892.) 
 
In determining
whether to grant or deny a special motion to strike, the Court engages in a
two-step process.¿ (See, e.g.,¿Shekhter¿v. Fin.¿Indemn. Co.¿(2001), 89
Cal.App.4th 141, 150.)¿ This process is essentially a “summary-judgment-like
procedure at any early stage of the litigation.” (Varian Med. Sys., Inc.
v.¿Delfino¿(2005), 35 Cal.4th 180, 192.)¿ “First, the court must determine
whether defendant has made a threshold showing that the challenged cause of
action ‘arises from’ a protected activity.¿ Second, if the defendant makes this
showing, the trial court must determine whether the plaintiff has established a
probability of prevailing on the claim.”¿ (Optional Capital, Inc. v. Das
Corp.¿(2014), 222 Cal.App.4th 1388, 1398.)¿¿¿ 
 
The motion requires the moving party to bear
the initial burden of establishing a prima facie showing that the
plaintiff’s cause of action arises from the defendant’s free speech or petition
activity. (Wilbanks, supra, 121 Cal.App.4th at 894.) The
defendant may meet this burden by showing the act which forms the basis for the
plaintiff's cause of action was a written or oral statement made before a
legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding; or such a statement in
connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative,
executive, or judicial body; or such a statement was made in a place open to
the public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public
interest.  (Wilcox v. Superior Court (1994) 27 Cal. App. 4th 809,
820 [overruled in part as to showing of intent of party that filed the
complaint].) 
 
Once a defendant meets their
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to establish a probability that the
plaintiff will prevail on the claim, i.e., make a prima facie showing of
facts which would, if proved at trial, support a judgment in plaintiff’s favor.
(Feldman v. 1100 Park Lane Associates (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1467,
1497-78.) Specifically, the plaintiff carries their shifting burden by making
an evidentiary showing like that required under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 437c. (Id.;
See also Ludwig v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 8, 15.) 
 
If
the special motion to strike is granted, the court must enter judgment for the
defendant.¿ (DuPont Merck Pharmaceutical Co. v. Superior Court¿(2000),
78 Cal.App.4th 562, 564.)¿ No leave to amend may be given.¿ (Schaffer v.
City and County of San Francisco¿(2008), 168 Cal.App.4th 992, 1005.)¿
 
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – The
post at issue reads: 
 
Dealing with things
gracefully....no more!!! 
 
To all of my
Antelope Valley followers if you have anything to do with the Vandam family, I
would be EXTREMELY careful...It's one thing to go through a divorce but the
amount of lies one family can make up....it's unbelievable. Evil, evil, evil
who hide behind the word of God. 
 
They make fun of
special needs adults calling them retards, yelling are you going to **** your
brother to have another retarded child, and will do things to break up
marriages and relationships. A family of 7 kids who are adults, that live
solely off their "godly" father, thriving on harassment, lies,
gossip, and drama. 
 
I would not want
ANYONE else to experience what my family has. Enough is enough!
 
(Complaint, Exh. A.)
 
Defendant presents that the post
is protected under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(e), highlighting the following
enumerated examples from the statute: (1) Any written or oral statement or
writing made before a judicial proceeding or any other official proceeding
authorized by law; (2) Any written or oral statement or writing made in
connection with an issue under consideration or review by a judicial body or
any other official proceeding authorized by law; and (3) Any other conduct in
furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional
right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
interest. 
 
Defendant first argues that
litigation privilege (i.e., enumerated list numbers (1) and (2)) applies as the
post stems from what happened in court during a divorce and custody proceeding
between Lacey Van Dam, Craig and Marta’s daughter, and Levi Faddoul,
Defendant’s brother. 
 
Defendant provides the following
cases:
 
·      
Healy v. Tuscany Hills Landscape &
Recreation Corp. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 1 – Homeowner’s association Tuscany
Hills Landscape & Recreation Corp. (“Tuscany Hills”) initiated suit against
property owner Gloria Healy (“Healy”) alleging that she denied Tuscany Hills
access through her property to an adjacent slope over which Tuscany Hills had
maintenance obligations. Subsequently, Tuscany Hills sent a letter to its
residents which stated that Healy’s prohibition of ingress and egress through
her property resulted in increased costs to members of Tuscany Hills. Healy
filed a cross-complaint due to the letter and Tuscany Hills brought an
Anti-SLAPP motion to strike. The appellate court found that the letter was
unquestionably made in connection with judicial proceedings and bears some
relation to judicial proceedings as it (1) expressly referred to the litigation
arising from Healy’s prohibition on ingress and egress for weed abatement
purposes and refers to an enclosed disclosure letter and (2) one purpose of the
letter was to inform members of Tuscany Hills of pending litigation involving
the association. 
·      
Anette F. v. Sharon S. (2004) 119
Cal.App.4th 1146 – Annette and Sharon got married and the wedding had public
coverage in mainstream media. Later, they published a book that was quoted in
discussions on the internet; they appeared on television with Diane Sawyer on a
broadcast on gay and lesbian marriage as one of the four featured couples; the
Turning Point covered Annette and Sharon’s wedding and their son’s birth which
was featured in national news media; and Annette filed a motion to adopt their
second child which received widespread coverage on the media and the internet.
During the litigation Sharon wrote a letter to the board of directors of The
Center, a gay and lesbian organization in San Diego and sent the letter to the
Gay and Lesbian Times of San Diego who had covered a story about the decision
in the family court litigation. The letter expressed Sharon’s belief that a
forum The Center had held on the court’s decision had been one-sided and
explained why Sharon agreed with the court’s initial ruling. It included the
following sentence: “Annette, a convicted perpetrator of domestic
violence against me, has made repeated false accusations of child abuse and neglect
against me while actively litigating for sole custody of both children,
ages 5 and 2.” Annette filed a libel action against Sharon. The appellate court
held that the statements (1) were made in connection with an issue under review
by a judicial body as Sharon’s allegations of domestic violence against Annette
were directly at issue in the underlying proceedings because Sharon claimed
that her consent to their second child’s adoption had been obtained by fraud or
undue influence arising from Annette's acts of domestic violence against her
and Annette’s allegations of abuse and neglect were related to competing claims
as to the second child’s best interest; (2) were made in a public forum in
connection with an issue of public interest as a news publication is a public
forum within the meaning of the Anti-SLAPP statute and the letter affected a
large number of children and adoptive parents beyond direct participants; and
(3) Sharon’s statements constitute conduct in furtherance of the exercise of
free speech in connection with an issue of public interest as the litigation
received widespread public attention because of its potential impact on those
who had adopted children through second-parent adoptions, particularly in the
gay and lesbian community. 
·      
Zucchet v Galardi (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th
1466 – Galardi owned several strip clubs in Las Vegas and one in San Diego and hired
lobbyist to try to repeal a “no-touch” ordinance in San Diego that affected
interactions between exotic dancers and patrons in strip clubs. The lobbyist’s
activities included meeting and making campaign contributions, including money
that was traceable to Galardi, to members of the San Diego City Council,
including Zucchet, who was elected. A breakfast meeting occurred between the
lobbyist and Zucchet where the lobbyist discussed how he had contributed money
during Zucchet’s campaign and Zucchet agreed to “do the lifting at the
committee level” of a plan that the lobbyist had formulated as to how to get
the repeal of the no-touch ordinance on the city council agenda. Concerned
citizens appeared before city council to request an expansion of the distance
requirements between adult businesses and referral of Zucchet’s participation
in the lobbyist’s plans. As a result, a grand jury indictment was filed naming
Zucchet and Galardi. Galardi entered a plea deal and a superseding indictment
was filed against Zucchet and the lobbyist. Subsequently, Zucchet filed suit
against Galardi for malicious prosecution, alleging that Galardi falsely told
the United States Attorney’s Office in January 2005 that he had given $10,000
in cash to Malone to bribe three city council members, including Zucchet, and
that Galardi falsely testified to that cash bribery during the criminal trial
against Zucchet. Galardi then filed an anti-SLAPP motion to strike. The
appellate court held that Galardi’s actions were activities protected by the
Anti-SLAPP statute as his testimony was an oral statements made before a
judicial proceeding and his statement to federal prosecutors was an oral
statement made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a
legislative, executive, or judicial body. The appellate court made notations
that the record contained no evidence that Galardi made false statements and
Zucchet conceded that he engaged in illegal activity.
·      
Haight Ashbury Free Clinics, Inc. v Happening
House Ventures (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1539 – Several suits underly this
action: (1) a partnership case where Haight Ashbury Free Clinics, Inc.
(“HAFCI”) filed suit against Happening House Ventures (“HHV”), David E. Smith
(“Smith”), and HHV’s administrator; and (2) a lease case where HHV filed suit
against HAFCI for breach of its lease. HAFCI filed this lawsuit against HHV and
Smith in which HAFCI alleged that smith breached his fiduciary duties. HHV filed
an anti-SLAPP motion to strike based on allegations made in paragraphs 31(o)
and 31(p) of the pleadings which alleged false testimony in the partnership
case and misrepresenting facts in a letter to the San Francisco Bay Guardian.
The appellate court found that the acts alleged in paragraphs 31(o) and 31(p)
were protected under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(e), enumerated numbers (1) [any
written or oral statement or writing made before a … judicial proceeding … ],
(2) [any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue
under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or
any other official proceeding authorized by law], (3) [any written or oral
statement or writing made in … a public forum in connection with an issue of
public interest] and (4) [or any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise
of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free
speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest]. 
 
Defendant’s cases are
substantially different from the action at hand. Whereas the cases cited
concern speech directly related to actions such as a letter informing homeowner
association members of a lawsuit and its effect, false testimony, or commentary
of a court’s ruling, the act at hand does not. Rather, the post in this action
does not include any discussion of a case or any statement made in connection
to a judicial body. The post alludes to a divorce but focuses the Van Dam
family’s conduct as a whole. While it may have stemmed from a judicial
proceeding, the post was not made in judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings by
litigants or other participants authorized by law such as the testimony
discussed in Zucchet v Galardi (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 1466 and Haight
Ashbury Free Clinics, Inc. v Happening House Ventures (2010) 184
Cal.App.4th 1539. There has been no showing that the post was made in connection
with an issue under consideration or review by a judicial body or any other
official proceeding authorized by law (i.e., such as in Anette F. v.
Sharon S. (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 1146 where the commentary affected
influence on a child and custody). The post is also differentiated from the
letter in Healy v. Tuscany Hills Landscape & Recreation Corp. (2006)
137 Cal.App.4th 1 as it does not expressly refer to a court proceeding and is
not meant to inform anyone of litigation that may affect their rights. As such,
Defendant does not show that litigation applies nor does the Court believe,
based on Defendant’s arguments, that litigation privilege applies.
 
The Court turns next to the
argument that the post is conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the
constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free speech in
connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest.
 
Defendant presents her post
“involve[s] the public interest in the integrity of divorce and/or custody
proceedings and to be able to attend court proceedings or testify as a witness
free of intimidation.”
 
Hilton v. Hallmark Cards
(9th Cir. 2010) 599 F.3d 894 (“Hilton”), summarizing California law, provides
the following tests for determining whether a matter involves the public
interest:
 
The California intermediate appellate courts
have developed multiple tests to determine whether a defendant's activity is in
connection with a public issue. One commonly cited test comes from Rivero v.
American Federation of State, County, & Municipal Employees, 105 Cal.
App. 4th 913, 130 Cal. Rptr. 2d 81, 89-90 (Ct. App. 2003) (concluding that the
plaintiff's supervision of eight individuals was not a matter of public
interest, where people involved had "received no public attention or media
coverage"). There, the Court of Appeal for the First District surveyed the
appellate cases and divined from them three categories of public issues: (1)
statements "concern[ing] a person or entity in the public eye"; (2)
"conduct that could directly affect a large number of people beyond the
direct participants"; (3) "or a topic of widespread, public
interest." Id. at 89. The Fourth District has followed this
approach. See, e.g., Commonwealth Energy Corp., 1 Cal. Rptr. 3d at
394-95 (describing Rivero as the first systematic treatment of the
"public issue-public interest aspect of the anti-SLAPP
statute"). 
 
By contrast, Weinberg v. Feisel, a
case from the Third District, articulated a somewhat more restrictive test,
designed to distinguish between issues of "public, rather than merely
private, interest." 110 Cal. App. 4th 1122, 2 Cal. Rptr. 3d 385, 392 (Ct.
App. 2003). 
 
First, "public interest" does not
equate with mere curiosity. Second, a matter of public interest should be
something of concern to a substantial number of people. Thus, a matter of
concern to the speaker and a relatively small, specific audience is not a
matter of public interest. Third, there should be some degree of closeness
between the challenged statements and the asserted public interest; the
assertion of a broad and amorphous public interest is not sufficient. Fourth,
the focus of the speaker's conduct should be the public interest rather than a
mere effort to gather ammunition for another round of private controversy.
Finally, . . . [a] person cannot turn otherwise private information into a
matter of public interest simply by communicating it to a large number of
people. 
 
Id. at 392-93 (internal quotation marks,
citations, and alteration omitted). 
 
(Hilton, supra, 599
F.3d 894, 906-07.)
 
The action at hand fails to
satisfy both tests. Defendant fails to show that her post concerns a person or
entity in the public eye nor a topic of widespread, public interest. Further,
under both tests, the matter needs to concern either “large number of people
beyond the direct participants” or a “substantial number of people.” (Ibid.)
The post appears to concern the parties directly and Defendant has made no
showing or argument that that a large number of people have been affected.
Defendant has also made no showing that her either her post or the divorce
proceeding are matters that the public would take an interest in. (See Nygard,
Inc. v. Uusi-Kerttula (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 1027.)
 
Defendant has failed to meet her initial burden of establishing a prima
facie showing that the plaintiff’s cause of action arises from the
defendant’s free speech or petition activity. (See Legal Standard, ante.)
As such, the burden does not shift and the Court need not move to the second-prong
of the two-step process of determining whether to grant or deny a
special motion to strike.
 
Accordingly, the Motion to Strike is
DENIED.
 
Reply
 
Defendant’s Reply reiterates that the post was made as a commentary on
statements made by Plaintiff’s during her brother’s divorce proceeding and is
protected because of this. Defendant presents that Plaintiffs’ cited case, Paul
v. Friedman (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 853 (“Paul”), supports her
argument. Defendant believes that she has met the first prong of the two-step
process. Defendant highlights that the Opposition should be disregarded as
there are issues surrounding the filed declarations. 
 
Paul is inapposite as it
focuses on a determination whether the alleged acts in Paul’s complaint, acts
related to a securities arbitration proceeding, was encompassed by the
anti-SLAPP statute. (See Paul, supra, 95 Cal.App.4th 835
[generally].) As to Defendant’s statement that Paul “reiterates that
speech is protected if undertaken in connection with a judicial proceeding, as
here,” Paul reiterates the relevant statute[2]
by citing: “Subdivision (e) reads in full: ‘As used in this section, “act in
furtherance of a person's right of petition or free speech under the United
States or California Constitution in connection with a public issue” includes:
(1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative,
executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized
by law; (2) any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an
issue under consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial
body, or any other official proceeding authorized by law; (3) any written or
oral statement or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum
in connection with an issue of public interest; (4) or any other conduct in
furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the
constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an
issue of public interest.’ (§ 425.16, subd. (e).)” (Id. at 863 fn. 17.)
The Court has discussed the application of the current statute and relevant
case law to this action, ante.
 
As such, the Court’s opinion
remains unchanged.
 
-----
 
Attorney’s Fees
and Costs
 
Defendant requests attorney’s
fees and costs in the amount of $7,500.00 [retainer amount] under Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 425.16(c).
 
Plaintiffs oppose as they believe
that this motion is without merit and directs the Court and the parties to Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(c)(1), presenting that they are entitled to attorney’s
fees.
 
Defendant presents that
Plaintiffs are not entitled to attorney’s fees as the only way attorney’s fees
would be provided to Plaintiffs is if the motion was found to be frivolous.
Defendant argues that whether an anti-SLAPP motion is “totally and completely
without merit” requires a finding that “ ‘any reasonable attorney would agree
such motion is totally devoid of merit.’ ” (Reply 5:1-12.) Defendant further
presents that Plaintiffs’ counsel’s declaration is also defective as the
declaration fails to state it is based on her personal knowledge or affirmatively
states that she is competent to testify. 
 
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(c)
provides:
 
(1) Except as
provided in paragraph (2), in any action subject to subdivision (b), a
prevailing defendant on a special motion to strike shall be entitled to recover
that defendant’s attorney’s fees and costs. If the court finds that a special
motion to strike is frivolous or is solely intended to cause unnecessary delay,
the court shall award costs and reasonable attorney’s fees to a plaintiff
prevailing on the motion, pursuant to Section 128.5.
(2) A defendant who
prevails on a special motion to strike in an action subject to paragraph (1)
shall not be entitled to attorney’s fees and costs if that cause of action is
brought pursuant to Section 11130, 11130.3, 54960, or 54960.1 of the Government
Code, or pursuant to Chapter 2 (commencing with Section 7923.100) of Part 4 of
Division 10 of Title 1 of the Government Code. Nothing in this paragraph shall
be construed to prevent a prevailing defendant from recovering attorney’s fees
and costs pursuant to Section 7923.115, 11130.5, or 54960.5 of the Government
Code.
 
While Defendant may have not
succeeded on her Anti-SLAPP Motion to Strike, there has been no showing that
this motion was frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.
Further, defense counsel may have been acting in what he believed was the best
interests of his client, Defendant. 
 
The Court declines to find the
anti-SLAPP Motion to Strike frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary
delay and, as such, does not award costs and attorney’s fees. 
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Lucy Faddoul’s Motion
to Strike is DENIED.


