  Case Number:  21AVCV00905    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a personal injury action.
Plaintiff Cristina Mondy (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on or about May 21, 2020,
at approximately 6:00 pm, she was lawfully visiting a friend who was renting a
home owned by Defendants Tom Deghionno (“Tom”)[1],
Audrey Deghionno (“Audrey”), and Laura Deghionno (“Laura” and collectively “Defendants”)
when Defendants’ two large pit bull mix dogs got loose and bit Plaintiff on
both of her arms. Plaintiff further alleges that sustained severe injuries.
 
On November 09, 2021, Plaintiff
filed her Complaint alleging two causes of action for Negligence and Premises
Liability. 
 
On October 28, 2022, Tom and
Audrey (collectively “Moving Defendants”) filed their Answer. 
 
The Court notes that Laura was
served on January 23, 2023 and, at this time, has neither answered nor been
placed in default. 
 
On November 07, 2023, Moving
Defendants filed this Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative,
Summary Adjudication. 
 
On January 09, 2024, Plaintiff
filed her Opposition.
 
On January 18, 2024, Moving
Defendants filed the Reply.
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Summary Judgment – The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Cal. Code Civ. Proc.¿§437c(c)
“requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted
by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to¿any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”¿ (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)¿ “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to
delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations
is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues
delimited by the pleadings.”¿ (Juge¿v. County of Sacramento¿(1993) 12
Cal.App.4th 59, 67 (“Juge”), citing¿FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima¿(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint,
the party moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof
by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense.
(Cal.¿Code Civ.¿Proc.¿§437c(p)(2);¿Scalf¿v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.¿(2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Once the defendant has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the opposing party to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v.¿Paetkau¿(1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)¿¿¿¿
 
-----
 
Plaintiff’s
Request for Continuance
 
Plaintiff places this request at
the very end of her 25-page Opposition filing. The Court address it first as
the request would impact the Motion for Summary Judgment. 
 
Plaintiff requests a continuance
to conduct Laura’s deposition. However, Laura has not answered the Complaint. 
 
Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(h)
reads: 
 
If it appears from
the affidavits submitted in opposition to a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication, or both, that facts essential to justify opposition may
exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the court shall deny the
motion, order a continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained or discovery to
be had, or make any other order as may be just. The application to continue the
motion to obtain necessary discovery may also be made by ex parte motion at any
time on or before the date the opposition response to the motion is due.
 
While Plaintiff has stated she
served Laura and attempted to depose Laura (see Decl. Desman ¶¶ 6-9), Plaintiff
has stated that her Opposition is “is based upon the attached Memorandum of
Points and Authorities, the Declaration of Andrew M. Jacobson, Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement, Written Objections to Defendant’s Evidence, Plaintiff’s
Response to Defendants’ Separate Statement, and all pleadings and papers on
file herein as well as any oral and/or documentary evidence to be presented at
the time of the hearing of this Motion.” (Opp. 2:8-12.) Plaintiff has provided
a complete Opposition, including a 26-page Opposition filing, a 51-page filing
for Requests for Judicial Notice, a 25-page Separate Statement filing, a
15-page evidentiary objection filing, and a 190-page declaration by Desman
which includes approx. 184 pages of exhibits. It is not clear that any
additional facts that are essential to justify the opposition may exist, but
cannot be presented as Plaintiff has provided a fully formulated Opposition. 
 
Further, “a party who seeks a
continuance under section 437c, subdivision (h), must show why the discovery
necessary to oppose the motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication
could not have been completed sooner, and accordingly requires the court to
grant the continuance.” (Braganza v. Albertson’s LLC (2021) 67
Cal.App.5th 144, 156 [citing Cooksey v. Alexakis (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th
246].)  Here, Laura has been named a
defendant since the inception of the action, November 09, 2021; Plaintiff did
not serve Laura with the Summons and Complaint until January 16, 2023;
subsequently, Plaintiff took no action against Laura in the case until January
11, 2024, after the filing of this Opposition, wherein Plaintiff requested
default of Laura. Outside of the case filings, the subpoena filed by Desman
shows that the deposition of Laura was not noticed until January 05, 2024. (See
Pl.’s Exh. 8.) Plaintiff has been aware of the Motion for Summary Judgment  since at least November 07, 2023, yet waited
until 19 days prior to the hearing on the Motion for Summary Judgment to notice
Laura’s deposition. Desman has not attested to any lack of diligence on
Plaintiff’s part despite the record and Exhibit 8 showing otherwise.
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the
request for continuance to depose Laura, a defaulted party. 
 
For clarity regarding how the
default impacts this Motion for Summary Judgment, the Court directs the parties
to Inzunza v. Naranjo (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 736 (“Inzunza”) which
summarizes the effects of defaulting defendants on codefendants which reads, in
relevant part:
 
. . .[C]ourts have
held that admissions implied from the default of one defendant are not binding
on a codefendant who answered, and expressly denied, the allegations in the
complaint.
 
For example, in Taylor
v. Socony Mobil Oil Co. (1966) 242 Cal.App.2d 832, 833 [51 Cal. Rptr. 764]
(Taylor), the plaintiff sued Socony Mobil and its employee for malicious
prosecution. The employee failed to answer the complaint and his default was
entered, but Socony Mobil answered, “denying all material allegations of the
complaint.” (Ibid.) The action went to trial against Socony Mobil and at
the conclusion of plaintiff's case, the trial court granted Socony Mobil's
motion for nonsuit. (Ibid.) On appeal, the plaintiff did “not seriously
argue that he presented testimony constituting a prima facie showing of lack of
probable cause or of malice” but argued “proof of these issues is supplied by
the pleadings” because the employee admitted the allegations in the pleadings
by failing to answer the complaint. (Id. at pp. 833–834.) The Court of
Appeal affirmed the judgment, explaining: “The validity of plaintiff's argument
rests upon his major premise that an admission implied from the default of one
defendant is binding upon an answering codefendant who has denied the relevant
allegations of the complaint. His position is untenable.” (Id. at p.
834.) Rather, “the correct rule … [is] ‘… that admissions implied from the
default of one defendant ordinarily are not binding upon a codefendant who, by
answering, expressly denies and places in issue the truth of the allegations
thus admitted by the absent party.’” (Ibid.)
 
Similarly, in Western
Heritage Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 1196, 1199–1200
[132 Cal. Rptr. 3d 209] (Western Heritage), the court held an
intervening insurer was permitted to litigate the issue of liability
notwithstanding its insured's default. The court explained: “A party's default
does not bind nondefaulting codefendants, even when the basis for the action
against the codefendants is vicarious liability arising from the acts of the
defaulting defendant.” (Id. at p. 1211.)
 
Accordingly, any admission
implied from Laura’s default does not impact this Motion for Summary Judgment. 
 
 
Discussion
 
Application – 
 
Issues Framed by the
Pleadings – As an initial matter, the Court’s review of the
issues framed by the pleadings indicates that the entirety of the complaint is
predicated upon whether Defendants were negligent in maintaining their
premises, ultimately causing the dogs to roam unrestrained, leading to Plaintiff
injuries. (See Complaint.) While Plaintiff has alleged two causes of action
sounding in General Negligence and Premises Liability, the gravamen of the
complaint is one sounding entirely in premises liability, as the standard of
review of negligence and premises liability are identical.[2]
Accordingly, the Court will assess the instant motion for summary judgment or
adjudication on that basis.[3]
 
Evidentiary Objections
– 
 
Objection No. 1 [Pl.’s UMF No.
4 “At all times relevant herein, including the date of the subject incident,
May 21, 2020, I rented the subject residence to Defendant LAURA DEGHIONNO.”] –
Overruled. Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(b)(1) allows a motion for summary
judgment to be supported by affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to
interrogatories, depositions. Plaintiff’s cited case, Hayman v. Block
(1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629 (“Hayman”) states: “The affidavits must cite
evidentiary facts, not legal conclusions or "ultimate" facts. (6
Witkin, Cal. Procedure (3d ed. 1985) § 288, p. 587.) Matters which would be
excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as
hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in
supporting affidavits. [Citation.]. . . The 1983 amendment to the summary
judgment statutory procedure removed discretion from the court hearing the
motion, and the motion must be granted if all the affidavits, declarations,
admissions, and conceded facts, considered together, show that there is no
triable issue of fact and, as a matter of law, the moving party is entitled to
a judgment.” (Hayman, supra, 176 Cal.App.3d at 639.) Facts
constituting those upon which liability depends are “ultimate facts.” (See Prakashpalan
v. Engstrom, Lipscomb & Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1120.) The
ultimate facts in this case are (1) Moving Defendants’ knowledge of the dogs on
the premises; and (2) Moving Defendants’ knowledge of the dogs’ dangerous
propensities. (See infra.) The declaration addresses the relationship
between Moving Defendants and Laura. As such, it is not an ultimate fact.
Further, Cal. Evid. Code §§ 403, 410, and 702 present no issues with this
ruling. Under Cal. Evid. Code § 403(2) and 702, the chief concern is Tom’s
personal knowledge of his relationship with Laura in regards to the premises. Tom
has declared that such information is within his person knowledge and that he
owns the premises under the penalty of perjury. (Decl. Tom ¶¶ 3-4; see also
Cal. Evid. Code §702 [“A witness’ personal knowledge of a matter may be shown
by any otherwise admissible evidence, including his own testimony.”].) Plaintiff
does not dispute ownership of the premises. Cal. Evid. Code § 410 is the
definition of “direct evidence.”
 
Objection No. 2 [Pl.’s UMF No.
5 “At all times relevant herein, including the date of the subject incident,
May 21, 2020, as between the two of us, myself and AUDREY DEGHIONNO, I took
care of the landlord management responsibilities for the subject premises, and
AUDREY DEGHIONNO had no such landlord management responsibilities.”] – OVERRULED.
See ante for reasoning.
 
Objection No. 3 [Pl.’s UMF No.
Objection No. 7 “At all relevant times herein, including the date of the
subject incident, May 21, 2020, my understanding of my responsibilities as a
landlord to inspect the subject residence during the tenancy of LAURA DEGHIONNO
is that I may enter or inspect the residential property only in the event of an
emergency, if necessary to make repairs and when she has abandoned the
premises.”] – OVERRULED. This is not irrelevant as Plaintiff presents as it
has to do with Tom’s knowledge of the dogs’ existence. This is neither an
improper conclusion nor improper opinion testimony. (See analysis for ruling on
Objection No. 1, ante.) Tom is not interpreting law, but stating his
understanding of his responsibilities. Whether that understanding is equivalent
to the duty imposed on him is a determination for the Court. 
 
Objection No. 4 [Pl.’s UMF No.
8 “Prior to renting the subject residence to LAURA DEGHIONNO, I inspected the
subject residence and found no dangerous conditions requiring repair or
remediation.”] – OVERRULED. Tom is presenting his actions prior to allowing
Laura to use the premises. Whether a dangerous condition existed is a
determination for the Courts. Further, this is a premises liability and
negligence action. The alleged dangerous condition is the dogs and the issues
surrounding the dogs are whether (1) Moving Defendants’ knowledge of the dogs
on the premises; and (2) Moving Defendants’ knowledge of the dogs’ dangerous
propensities. (See infra.)
 
Objection No. 5 [Pl.’s UMF No.
9 “At all relevant times, including the date of the subject incident, May 21,
2020, during her tenancy at the subject residence LAURA DEGHIONNO was
responsible for notifying me of any emergency requiring my attention or any
other condition at the subject residence requiring repair or remediation,
including, but not limited to, any danger to other persons or other dogs posed
by the dog(s) that she owned or cared for on the property.”] – OVERRULED. Plaintiff’s
objection focuses on the determination of Tom’s duty. As the Court stated, ante,
duty imposed on Moving Defendants is a determination for the Court. However,
this statement simply states that, at all relevant times, Laura was to notify
Tom in the event of an emergency or condition requiring his attention. 
 
Objection No. 6 [Pl.’s UMF No.
10 “At no time during her tenancy at the subject residence before the date of
the subject incident, May 21, 2020, did LAURA DEGHIONNO notify me of any
emergency requiring my attention or a condition at the subject residence
requiring repair or remediation, including, but not limited to[,] any danger to
others posed by a dog or dogs that she owned or cared for on the property,
except the trimming of some trees[.]”] – OVERRULED. Plaintiff’s objection
focuses on the belief that Tom is attempting to state fact; however, this
statement states that Laura did not notify Tom of any emergency or condition on
the date of the incident.
 
Objection No. 7 [Pl.’s UMF No.
12 “After renting the subject residence to LAURA DEGHIONNO, on one of my
infrequent visits to the property before the date of the subject incident, May
21, 2020, I became aware that she had one or more dogs on the property that she
owned and cared for, and the dog(s) seemed friendly to me; at no time did I see
them bite or attack anyone, or any other dog; however, I do not know knowing if
they were the same dogs that allegedly bit Plaintiff.” – OVERRULED. This is
not irrelevant as it concedes Tom had knowledge that dogs were on the premises.
Further, it simply because Tom states that they seemed friendly to him does not
establish that they are friendly as a fact. 
 
Objection No. 8 [Pl.’s UMF No.
16 Defendants propounded Request for Admission, No. 16 to Plaintiff asking her
to: per “[a]dmit that YOU have no evidence that the ‘two certain large Pit Bull
Mixes’ alleged in YOUR COMPLAINT had ever before May 21, 2020 bitten or
attacked, any person.” REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS TO PLAINTIFF CRISTINA MONDY, SET
ONE, No. 16, pertinent part of which is marked and identified as Exhibit “B” in
the accompanying Declaration of John G. Wilcoxson and attached to the
accompanying Notice of Lodgment of Exhibits.” – OVERRULED. Moving
Defendants may use Plaintiff’s response to Requests for Admissions as support
for a motion for summary judgment. (See Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 437(b)(1).) Further,
this information is relevant for the burden shifting analysis of the motion for
summary judgment. Plaintiff may show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of
action or a defense thereto in her Opposition. (See legal standard, ante.)
 
Objection No. 9 [Pl.’s UMF No. 17 “Plaintiff responded to
Defendants’ Request for Admission, No. 16, as follows: ‘OBJECTION: Plaintiff
objects on the grounds that this request is vague, ambiguous and overbroad, and
premature. Without waiving said objections, Plaintiff responds as follows: At
this time, she does not have sufficient information at this time (sic) to either
admit or deny….’ PLAINTIFF CRISTINA MONDY’S RESPONSE TO DEFENDANT’S TOM
DEGHIONNO and AUDREY DEGHIONNO’S REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS, SET ONE, NO. 16,
pertinent part of which is marked and identified as Exhibit ‘C’ in the
accompanying Declaration of John G. Wilcoxson and attached to the accompanying
Notice of Lodgment of Exhibits.” – OVERRULED. See reasoning behind
Objection No. 8.
 
Objection No. 10 [Pl.’s UMF
No. 18 “Defendants propounded Request for Admission, No. 17 to Plaintiff asking
her to: ‘[a]dmit that YOU have no evidence that the “two certain large Pit Bull
Mixes” alleged in YOUR COMPLAINT had ever before May 21, 2020 had a propensity
to bite or attack, bitten or attacked, any person.’ REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS TO
PLAINTIFF CRISTINA MONDY, SET ONE, No. 17, pertinent part of which is marked
and identified as Exhibit ‘B’ in the accompanying Declaration of John G.
Wilcoxson and attached to the accompanying Notice of Lodgment of Exhibits.”] – OVERRULED.
See reasoning behind Objection No. 8.
 
Objection No. 11 [Pl.’s UMF
No. 25 “Plaintiff responded to Form Interrogatory No. 17.1, as follows: ‘(a)
Request For Admission No. 17, 18;[’] (b) ‘OBJECTION. Plaintiff objects on the
grounds that this request is vague, ambiguous (sic) and overbroad, and
premature.[] Without waiving such objections, Plaintiff responds as follows:
Deny. (Plaintiff erroneously argues that) Defendants knew that the dogs were a
mix Pit Bull breed, which has known dangerous propensities. Based on the
nature, demeanor, size and breed of the subject Dogs, the subject dogs had a
propensity to bite or attack people, which was known by Defendants and each of
them….” Plaintiff seemingly asks the Court to take judicial notice of the
dangerous propensities of pit bulls, here pit bull mixes, which is improper
[see Yuzon v. Collins (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 149, 168, 10 Cal. Rptr. 3d 18]’
PLAINTIFF CRISTINA MONDY’S RESPONSES TO DEFENDANTS TOM DEGHIONNO AND AUDREY
DEGHIONNO FORM INTERROGATORIES, SET ONE, NO. 17.1, which are marked and
identified as Exhibit ‘E’ in the accompanying Declaration of John G. Wilcoxson
and attached to the accompanying Notice of Lodgment of Exhibits.”] – OVERRULED.
See reasoning behind Objection No. 8.
 
Objection No. 12 [Pl.’s UMF
No. 26 “CRISTINA MONDY had never seen the subject dogs before the subject
incident because she had never before the subject incident had any reason to go
over to LAURA DEGHIONNO’S house, and therefore does not have any personal
knowledge that they had ever before the subject incident bitten or attacked any
person or dog. Deposition of CRISTINA MONDY, volume 2, taken October 13, 2023,
p. 108:16-21, pertinent portions of which are marked and identified as Exhibit
‘F’ in the accompanying Declaration of John G. Wilcoxson and attached to the
accompanying Notice of Lodgment of Exhibits.”] – SUSTAINED. Plaintiff’s
personal knowledge of the dogs’ dangerous propensities and whether she had been
on the premises prior is irrelevant. 
 
Moving Defendants’ objections
to Plaintiff’s Evidence Nos. 1-29: SUSTAINED.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
– 
 
Exh. 1 [The March 2019 County
of Los Angeles Department of Animal Care and Control Incident Report signed by
Officer A. Baldridg] – GRANTED.
 
Exh. 2 [The May 21, 2020
County of Los Angeles Department of Animal Care and Control Incident Report
signed by Investigating Officer Angela Deliso] – GRANTED.
 
Discussion –
Moving Defendants present that Plaintiff has served factually devoid discovery
responses where she concedes to not have sufficient information to admit or
deny that Moving Defendants owned the two dogs as alleged in her Complaint or
that the two dogs had ever bitten or attached any person before May 21, 2020.
(See Decl. John G. Wilcoxson, Exh. C at Requests for Admission Nos. 15-16.) Moving
Defendants highlight that Plaintiff’s response to Form Interrogatory 17.1 that
the dogs are inherently dangerous because they are pit pull mixes and argues
that this is improper under Yuzon v. Collins (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 149
(“Yuzon”). Thus, Moving Defendants believe that, because of the
aforementioned facts, the burden shifts to Plaintiff under Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§ 473(o)(2). Moving Defendants argue that (1) they do not have a special
relationship with Plaintiff that would lead to a duty to “to perform
[‘]reasonably careful inspections at reasonable intervals to learn of dangers
not apparent to the eye’ as to the non-common, interior rooms of the subject
residence where the subject dog bites allegedly occurred over which TOM
DEGHIONNO has not retained control” (Opp. 15:5-8); (2) a landlord has no
general duty to periodically inspect non-common areas of their leased premises,
i.e., the dwelling, of which control was relinquished to the tenant (id.
15:13-18); (3) they do not own the subject dogs (Decl. Tom ¶ 11); (4) Plaintiff
has no evidence to the contrary (see cited discovery responses, ante);
(5) Plaintiff has no admissible evidence that the dogs had ever bitten or
attacked anyone prior to show dangerous propensity (see id.); and (6)
should Plaintiff introduce facts that persons other than Moving Defendants knew
or have heard that the dogs had bitten or attacked others, it cannot be imputed
onto Moving Defendants under Cal. Evid. Code § 1200 and Syntex Corp. v.
Lowsley-Williams & Co. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 871. Moving Defendants
also highlight that there is no allegation that Laura is their agent. Regarding
the Second Cause of Action (Premises Liability), Moving Defendants argue that
it fails to state a cause of action against them as it is a form of negligence
and further arguments discuss dangerous conditions on leased properties. 
 
The Court has addressed the issue
of the causes of actions pled, ante. (See Issues Framed by the
Pleading).
 
“ ‘The elements of a cause of
action for negligence are well established. They are “(a) a legal duty to use
due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c)the breach as the proximate
or legal cause of the resulting injury.” ’ ” (Ladd v. County of San Mateo
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.) The elements of a negligence claim and a premises
liability claim are the same: a legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and
proximate cause resulting in injury. Premises liability ‘ “is grounded in the
possession of the premises and the attendant right to control and manage the
premises” ’; accordingly, ‘ “mere possession with its attendant right to
control conditions on the premises is a sufficient basis for the imposition of
an affirmative duty to act.” ’ But the duty arising from possession and control
of property is adherence to the same standard of care that applies in
negligence cases. In determining whether a premises owner owes a duty to
persons on its property, we apply the Rowland [Rowland v. Christian
(1968) 69 Cal.2d 108 [70 Cal.Rptr. 97, 443 P.2d 561]] factors. Indeed, Rowland
itself involved premises liability.’ ” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016)
1 Cal.5th 1132, 1159.)
 
Case law provides a standard for
a landlord’s duty in relation to dogs on the premises:
 
·      
Chee
v. Amanda Goldt Property Management (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1360, 1369-70: “. . .[A] landlord does not owe a
duty of care to protect a third party from his or her tenant's dog unless the
landlord has actual knowledge of the dog's dangerous propensities, and the
ability to control or prevent the harm. [Citations.] . . . ‘ “[A] duty of care
may not be imposed on a landlord without proof that he knew of the dog and its
dangerous propensities. Because the harboring of pets is such an important part
of our way of life and because the exclusive possession of rented premises
normally is vested in the tenant, … actual knowledge and not mere constructive
knowledge is required. . .” ’ ” 
·      
Yuzon
v. Collins (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 149, 152: “Under California law, a landlord owes a duty of care to
his tenant’s invitees to prevent injury from the tenant’s vicious dog when the
landlord has ‘actual knowledge’ of the dog’s vicious nature in time to protect
against the dangerous condition on his property. [Citation.]” 
·      
Donchin
v. Guerrero (1995) 34
Cal.App.4th 1832, 1838 (“Donchin”): “Under California law, a landlord
who does not have actual knowledge of a tenant's dog's vicious nature cannot be
held liable when the dog attacks a third person. In other words, where a third
person is bitten or attacked by a tenant's dog, the landlord's duty of
reasonable care to the injured third person depends on whether the dog's
vicious behavior was reasonably foreseeable. Without knowledge of a dog's
propensities a landlord will not be able to foresee the animal poses a danger
and thus will not have a duty to take measures to prevent the attack.” 
·      
Uccello
v. Laudenslayer (1975) 44
Cal.App.3d 504, 514 (“Uccello”): “It should be emphasized that a duty of
care may not be imposed on a landlord without proof that he knew of the dog and
its dangerous propensities. Because the harboring of pets is such an important
part of our way of life and because the exclusive possession of rented premises
normally is vested in the tenant, we believe that actual knowledge and not mere
constructive knowledge is required. For this reason we hold that a landlord is
under no duty to inspect the premises for the purpose of discovering the
existence of a tenant's dangerous animal; only when the landlord has actual
knowledge of the animal, coupled with the right to have it removed from the
premises, does a duty of care arise.” 
 
Thus, duty of care may not be imposed on a
landlord without proof that he or she knew of the dog and its dangerous
propensities or, in this case, both dogs and their dangerous propensities. 
 
Audrey has stated that she had no knowledge
that any dogs resided at the subject residence. (See Decl. Audrey ¶ 6.)
However, Tom has conceded that he knew of the presence of the dogs, but not
their dangerous propensities. (See Decl. Tom ¶ 11.) 
 
Moving
Defendants have provided discovery responses showing that Plaintiff lacks
evidence of the dogs’ dangerous propensities. 
 
The Court
notes that Plaintiff’s response to Form Interrogatory 17.1 states in various
sectors that the dogs have a “previous history” in the incident report created.
(See Decl. John G. Wilcoxson, Exh. E.) However, the “previous history” is not
expanded upon and Plaintiff states in her Requests for Admission (“RFAs”) that “[a]t
this time, she does not have sufficient information at this time to either
admit or deny” as to whether Plaintiff had evidence that the two dogs had
bitten or attacked any person prior to the incident. (See id. at Exh. C RFA
No. 16.) RFA No. 17 is similar to RFA No. 16, but asks about the dogs’
propensity. (See id. at Exh. C RFA No. 17.) Plaintiff denies this RFA
but no information is provided. (See ibid.) As to Plaintiff’s discussion
of the dogs breed as evidence of dangerous propensities, Yuzon holds
that judicial notice is improper where the request is that all dogs of a
certain breed are dangerous. (See id. at Exh. E Form Interrogatory 17.1
[“Defendants knew that the dogs were large in size Defendants knew that the
dogs were a mix Pit Bull breed, a mix breed that includes Pit Bull, which has
known dangerous propensities. . . which has known dangerous propensities. Based
on the nature, demeanor, size and breed of the subject Dogs, the subject dogs
had a propensity to bite or attack people, which was known by Defendants and
each of them.”]; see also Yuzon, supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at 168 [“Dr. Polsky’s
statement that adult male pit bulls ‘are often unpredictable in nature and
frequently possess an inherent propensity for aggressive responding towards
unfamiliar people who come near their territory’ has no possible relevance
given the absence of any evidence that Collins knew or must have known that
Kemo was an adult male pit bull. The question is not whether Collins should
have known or should have determined that Kemo was an aggressive adult male pit
bull, but whether Collins must have known or had actual knowledge of that fact.
(Uccello v. Laudenslayer, supra, 44 Cal. App. 3d at p. 507.)
Moreover, just as it is improper to take judicial notice that all German
shepherds are dangerous (Lundy v. California Realty (1985) 170 Cal. App.
3d 813, 822 [216 Cal. Rptr. 575]), it would be improper to take judicial notice
that all adult male pit bulls are dangerous.”].) Based on precedent, what must
be shown is not that Moving Defendants knew that the dogs were pit bull mixes,
but that that Moving Defendants knew that the dogs were pit bull mixes with
dangerous propensities. Moving Defendants have shown that Plaintiff does not
have information concerning this element. 
 
The Court
need not address the argument that Moving Defendants had no duty to perform
inspections of the rented dwelling as an essential element has already been
negated. 
 
As to the
argument regarding Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473(o)(2), addressed in the Table of
Contents as “California of Civil Section 473(o)(2)” and in the moving papers as
only “section 473(o)(2) (see Motion for Summary Judgment 12:27, 13:23), the
Court believes this is a scrivener’s error as Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 473
concerns amendments of pleadings and does not have a subdivision (o). The Court
believes Moving Defendants are using Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 437(o)(2). 
 
Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. § 437(o)(2) provides: 
 
A
cause of action has no merit if either of the following exists:
(1)
One or more of the elements of the cause of action cannot be separately
established, even if that element is separately pleaded.
(2)
A defendant establishes an affirmative defense to that cause of action.
 
Moving
Defendants have met their initial burden by establishing there is no evidence
that they did not own the dogs and did not know of the dogs’ dangerous
propensities. 
 
The
burden then shifts to Plaintiff to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of
action or a defense thereto.
 
Plaintiff presents that Tom has not checked
on the premises since Laura moved in; in 2019 there was a report about too many
dogs on the property, leading to one dog being put down, citations for
unvaccinated and unlicensed dogs, and an N24 posted for too many dogs; on the
day of the incident Laura’s dogs attacked Plaintiff. Plaintiff presents that the
dogs have always been aggressive as Louie Cervantes (“Cervantes”) and Emily,
the previous family who lived in a trailer behind the premises, had to erect a
fence and Laura’s dogs previously tried to attack Cervantes and Emily and
ripped their dog’s ears off. Plaintiff presents that she personally observed
Cervantes and Emily’s dog after the incident and that the dogs have a
reputation for attacking a lot of people. Plaintiff further presents that,
after the incident, Laura spoke to Tom to give details of what happened, but
Tom did not take any steps to remove the dogs after the incident. Plaintiff
then argues that Moving Defendants have not met their burden; Tom was not a
landlord; and Tom owed a duty of care for allowing the dogs onto the premises,
even without actual knowledge of the dogs’ dangerous propensities. Plaintiff
directs the Court and the parties to Salinas v. Martin (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 404 and argues the Rowland [Rowland v. Christian
(1968) 69 Cal. 2d 108] factors should be applied. Plaintiff proceeds to argue
that Tom knew of the dogs’ dangerous propensities, citing to Request for
Judicial Notice Exh. 1 and Donchin. Specifically, Plaintiff presents
that Plaintiff stated that the DOGS are “crazy” and “obviously very dangerous”
and are known in the neighborhood to have attacked a lot of people; Laura
admitted that she had to keep her dogs separate because they were getting into
fights and
out of
the gate (Pl.’s Alternate UMF Nos. 29-30); a fence was put up at the subject
premises to block and protect Louie, his dog, and Emily from Laura’s dogs, Tom
visited the property before the subject incident and was aware that Laura kept
dogs, even abandoned dogs off the street, inside his home; and Tom himself
recognized that Laura needed dogs to protect her. Plaintiff believes that
Laura’s knowledge should be imputed onto Tom as an agent; Tom has made
inconsistent statements such as Laura maintained the property whereas in his
declaration he states he took care of landlord and management responsibilities
and that Tom still believes the dogs are friendly. Plaintiff further highlights
that Tom had an affirmative duty to keep his property safe and never conducted
a reasonable inspection and Moving Defendants had the ability to remove the
dangerous dogs from the premises but failed to do so. 
 
Request
for Judicial Notice Exh. 1 does not show the dogs’ dangerous propensities.
Unlike Donchin, cited by Plaintiff, there is no showing in Request for Judicial
Notice Exh. 1 that the dogs are dangerous. Judicial Notice Exh. 1 shows only
that one dog was euthanized, no reason provided, that the dogs were getting
into fights with each other only, and that the dogs had the ability to get out
of the fence. This does not go towards the dogs’ dangerous propensities. (See
Plaintiff citation to Donchin at Opp. 20:11-13 [citing that in Donchin
the dogs would growl and appear ferocious to a person].) Plaintiff has not
provided the Court with any legal standard that would allow the imputation of
dog interactions in an overcrowding situation to be applied to the dangerous
propensity legal standard. Further, the euthanized dog is not at issue for the
Motion for Summary Judgment. For these reasons, the Court has sustained Moving
Defendants’ objections to Plaintiff’s addition facts related to Judicial Notice
Exh. 1.
 
The Court
also notes that there has been no showing by Plaintiff that Tom had actual
knowledge of the incident in Request for Judicial Notice Exh. 1.[4]
Likewise, Plaintiff has conceded that Tom only inspected the premises prior to
Laura moving in. (See Opp. 23:5-23.) However, Tom’s knowledge of the dogs is a
non-issue as Tom concedes knowledge of them in his declaration. (See decl. Tom
¶ 11.) 
 
Regarding requisite knowledge of dangerous
propensities, Plaintiff relies on five things: (1) the Request for Judicial
Notice; (2) Plaintiff’s statements; (3) Laura’s statements; (4) the fence
erected by Cervantes
and Emily; (5) Tom visited the premises before the subject incident and was
aware that Laura kept dogs; and (5) Tom recognized that Laura needed dogs for
protection. The Court has discussed the Request for Judicial Notice Exh. 1, ante.
The Court has sustained the evidentiary objections related to Plaintiff’s
alternate fact No. 13, to 19 as Plaintiff lacks personal knowledge. These
alternate facts are based on statements in which other people told Plaintiff that
the dogs are dangerous which (1) may constitute hearsay, and (2) shows only
Plaintiff’s knowledge, not Tom’s. Tom’s visit as well as his knowledge that
Laura needed dogs for protection (Pl.’s Exh. 4; Decl. Tom ¶ 11) does not show knowledge of the dogs’ dangerous
propensities. As to Laura’s statements, Plaintiff would like Laura’s knowledge
imputed on Tom. Plaintiff presents that Laura is Tom’s agent. However, this goes
against the pleadings. (See Complaint ¶¶ 1, 2, 12.) FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 367 (“FPI Development”) discusses the role of the pleadings
in a motion for summary judgment: 
 
“The purpose of a summary judgment
proceeding is to permit a party to show that material factual claims arising
from the pleadings need not be tried because they are not in dispute.” (Andalon
v. Superior Court, supra, 162 Cal.App.3d at pp. 604-605.) “The
function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the
scope of the issues: the function of the affidavits or declarations is to
disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited
by the pleadings.” (Orange County Air Pollution Control Dist. v. Superior
Court (1972) 27 Cal.App.3d 109, 113 [103 Cal.Rptr. 410]; see also, e.g., Pultz
v. Holgerson (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 1110, 1114 [229 Cal.Rptr. 531].) The
complaint measures the materiality of the facts tendered in a defendant's
challenge to the plaintiff's cause of action. (C. L. Smith Co. v. Roger
Ducharme, Inc. (1977) 65 Cal.App.3d 735, 745 [135 Cal.Rptr. 483].) The
answer supplements that measure where the plaintiff is the moving party and the
defendant relies upon an affirmative defense. It is incumbent upon a moving
party plaintiff not only to show there is no material factual dispute with
respect to its cause of action but also to show that there is no material
factual dispute with respect to the defenses proffered by the defendant. (See Sadlier
v. Superior Court (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 1050, 1055-1056 [229 Cal.Rptr.
374].) 
 
[. . .] 
 
The procedure for resolving a summary
judgment motion presupposes that the pleadings are adequate to put in issue a
cause of action or defense thereto. (See Coyne v. Krempels (1950) 36
Cal.2d 257, 262 [223 P.2d 244].) However a pleading may be defective in failing
to allege an element of a cause of action or in failing to intelligibly
identify a defense thereto. In such a case, the moving party need not address a
missing element or, obviously, respond to assertions which are unintelligible
or make out no recognizable legal claim. The summary judgment proceeding is
thereby necessarily transmuted into a test of the pleadings and the summary
judgment motion into a motion for judgment on the pleadings. In these
circumstances it has been said that a defendant's “motion for summary judgment
necessarily includes a test of the sufficiency of the complaint and as such is
in legal effect a motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (Barnett v. Delta
Lines, Inc. (1982) 137 Cal.App.3d 674, 682 [187 Cal.Rptr. 219], citations omitted.)
Similarly, a plaintiff's motion for summary judgment necessarily includes a
test of the sufficiency of the answer. (See Sadlier, supra, 184
Cal.App.3d at p. 1055.) 
 
(FPI Development, Inc., supra,
231 Cal.App.3d at 381-32.) 
 
That is, since a motion for summary judgment
or summary adjudication is limited to the issues raised by the pleadings (see Lewis
v. Chevron (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 690, 694), all evidence submitted in
support of or in opposition to the motion must be addressed to the claims and
defenses specifically raised in the pleadings; an issue that is “within the
general area of issues framed by the pleadings” is properly before the court on
a summary judgment or summary adjudication motion (see Lennar Northeast
Partners v. Buice (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1576,1582-1583). The Court cannot
consider an unpleaded issue in the context of its ruling on motion for summary
judgment or adjudication. (Roth v. Rhodes (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 530,
541.) As such, the Court cannot consider Plaintiff’s agency argument due
to the pleadings. The pleadings allege that a friend is renting the room from
Tom and that Doe Defendants are agents of Tom. (See Complaint ¶¶ 1, 2, 5[5], 12.) Because the Complaint is vague as to
who the friend is, a liberal reading of the Complaint as a whole, including
Paragraph 4 which discusses Laura’s address, would allow the inference that the
friend is Laura. However, there is no such leeway for the agency argument as
Plaintiff has distinguished Laura from Doe Defendants 1 through 20. 
 
The Court addresses the Rowland
factors for clarity. Application of the Rowland factors is a two-step
inquiry: (1) first, the court must determine whether there exists a special
relationship between the parties or some other set of circumstances giving rise
to an affirmative duty to protect; and (2) if so, the court must consult the
factors described in Rowland to determine whether relevant policy
considerations counsel limiting that duty. (Brown v. USA Taekwondo
(2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 209 (“Brown”).) The California Supreme Court
clarified that (1) Cal. Civ. Code § 1714 creates a general rule of duty; (2)
Cal. Civ. Code §1714 has limits – “the law imposes a general duty of
care on a defendant only when it is the defendant who has ‘ “created a risk” ’
of harm to the plaintiff, including when ‘ “the defendant is responsible for
making the plaintiff's position worse[;]” ’ (3) the no-duty-to-protect rule is
not absolute and, under some circumstances, a defendant may have an affirmative
duty to protect the plaintiff from harm at the hands of a third party, even
though the risk of harm is not of the defendant's own making such as if a
person choosing to undertake to come to the aid of another or when a special
relationship exists. (Id. at 213-16.) In Brown, the plaintiff argues
that a duty may arise without a special relationship or where there are no
circumstances that would give rise to an affirmative duty to protect; the Brown
court summarized the Rowland ruling and its place in California
jurisprudence; and held that Rowland “was not designed as a freestanding
means of establishing duty, but instead as a means for deciding whether to
limit a duty derived from other sources.” (Id. at 217; see id.
[generally].) Cal. Civ. Code § 1714 reads, in relevant part:
Everyone is responsible, not only for the
result of his or her willful acts, but also for an injury occasioned to another
by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management of his or her
property or person, except so far as the latter has, willfully or by want of
ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or herself. The design,
distribution, or marketing of firearms and ammunition is not exempt from the
duty to use ordinary care and skill that is required by this section. The
extent of liability in these cases is defined by the Title on Compensatory
Relief.
 
A dangerous condition includes dogs, if the
landlord knew, or in the exercise of reasonable care would have known that the
dog was regularly present on the property and was dangerous. (See Portillo
v. Aiassa (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133-34 (“Portillo”).) Portillo
reads, in relevant part:
 
A landlord owes a duty of care to a tenant
to provide and maintain safe conditions on the leased premises. ( Becker v.
IRM Corp. (1985) 38 Cal.3d 454, 467 [213 Cal.Rptr. 213, 698 P.2d 116, 48
A.L.R.4th 601].) This duty of care also extends to the general public. "A
lessor who leases property for a purpose involving the admission of the public
is under a duty to see that it is safe for the purposes intended, and to
exercise reasonable care to inspect and repair the premises before possession
is transferred so as to prevent any unreasonable risk of harm to the public who
may enter. [Citations.] An agreement to renew a lease or relet the premises …
cannot relieve the lessor of his duty to see that the premises are reasonably
safe at that time." ( Burroughs v. Ben's Auto Park, Inc. (1945) 27
Cal.2d 449, 453-454 [164 P.2d 897].)
 
Where there is a duty to exercise reasonable
care in the inspection of premises for dangerous conditions, the lack of
awareness of the dangerous condition does not generally preclude liability. ( Becker
v. IRM Corp., supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 469.) "Although liability
might easily be found where the landowner has actual knowledge of the dangerous
condition '[t]he landowner's lack of knowledge of the dangerous condition is
not a defense. He has an affirmative duty to exercise ordinary care to keep the
premises in a reasonably safe condition, and therefore must inspect them or
take other proper means to ascertain their condition. And if, by the exercise
of reasonable care, he would have discovered the dangerous condition, he is
liable.' " ( Swanberg v. O'Mectin (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 325, 330
[203 Cal.Rptr. 701].)
 
(Id. at 1134.) 
 
Swanberg
v. O’Mectin 1984) 157 Cal.App.3d
325 (“Swanberg”) provides, in relevant part:
 
In
California, it has long been the law that a person may be liable for injuries
resulting from his failure to use ordinary care in the management of his
property. ( Civ. Code, § 1714; Lipson v. Superior Court (1982) 31 Cal.3d
362, 372 [182 Cal.Rptr. 629, 644 P.2d 822].) It makes no difference whether the
danger posed by said lack of care manifests itself in the form of a natural as
opposed to an artificial condition on the property. ( Sprecher v. Adamson
Companies (1981) 30 Cal.3d 358 [178 Cal.Rptr. 783, 636 P.2d 1121].) CA(4)
(4) Further, a landowner may face liability for injury to another, incurred
outside of the former's property (on an adjacent street), if the injury is
found to be caused by a traffic obstruction in the form of shrubbery growing
from the property. ( Wisher v. Fowler (1970) 7 Cal.App.3d 225 [86
Cal.Rptr. 582].)
 
Although
liability might easily be found where the landowner has actual knowledge of the
dangerous condition, "[the] landowner's lack of knowledge of the dangerous
condition is not a defense. He has an affirmative duty to exercise ordinary
care to keep the premises in a reasonably safe condition, and therefore must
inspect them or take other proper means to ascertain their condition. And if,
by the exercise of reasonable care, he would have discovered the dangerous
condition, he is liable." (4 Witkin, Summary of Cal. Law (8th ed. 1974)
Torts, § 592, p. 2860; italics in original.) Accordingly, it would appear that
actual knowledge is not an absolute requirement for finding liability here.
 
Unfortunately,
it is not clear whether the above authority applies merely to the owner of
property under all circumstances, or solely to an owner in possession. In the
matter sub judice, the trial court's disallowance of jury instructions
embodying the above tenets of law, was undoubtedly grounded upon a belief that
a landowner can exempt himself from said affirmative duty, by leasing his
property and therein relinquishing his right to control same. Although we are
in accord with the general principle that a party should not be held liable for
conditions beyond his control, in this case the evidence strongly suggests that
the landowner could have easily controlled his property, and further, that said
duty to control is nondelegable.
 
 The authority underlying the court's rejection
of the proffered jury instructions is the case of Uccello v. Laudenslayer
(1975) 44 Cal.App.3d 504 [118 Cal.Rptr. 741, 81 A.L.R.3d 628]. Uccello
involved an action against a landlord brought by an invitee who received
injuries from a vicious dog kept on the leased premises. The Uccello
court emphasized that actual, as opposed to constructive, knowledge was a
requisite for finding the landlord liable. The reason for the distinction being
rooted to the historical doctrine that a landlord who leases his property,
surrenders virtual control of his land to the lessee, absent an agreement to
the contrary. ( Uccello, supra, at pp. 510-511; see also com. a
to Rest., Torts, § 355.) Because said loss of control includes the right of a
landlord to reenter the property without the lessee's permission, short of
abridging the latter's right of quiet enjoyment, amongst other privacy law
considerations, the landlord is in no position to reliably determine whether or
not a tenant/lessee is harboring a dangerous animal.
 
 In contrast, this case does not involve a
"transitory" and "easily-concealed" danger such as an
animal with vicious propensities. On the contrary, it involves a portion of the
property easily viewed from the outside of same. In fact, it was so easily
viewed, as alleged, that it may have constituted a menace to persons off the
land on the adjacent street. For this reason, we find Uccello v.
Laudenslayer, supra, 44 Cal.App.3d 504, inapplicable to the instant
case.
 
Aside
from the inapplicability of Uccello, it would appear that the O'Mectins'
duty to care for their property, so as to reasonably avoid injury to others,
outside the perimeters of their land, was nondelegable.
 
(Swanberg,
supra, 157 Cal.App.3d 325, 330-31.)
 
Unlike Swanberg,
Uccello is directly applicable to this action. As such, actual knowledge
of the dogs and their dangerous propensities is necessary for finding the
landlord liable in this action. Plaintiff has not shown that Moving Defendant
knew of the dogs’ dangerous propensities. 
 
The Court
notes that Plaintiff has an argument regarding inspection, however This
argument is inapposite due to the application of Uccello. Further, Plaintiff
concedes that Tom inspected the premises with the seller (Opp. 23:15-16) and
repairs were made by the seller (id, 23:16-17) and, while Plaintiff
tries to present that Tom did not inspect the premises prior to Laura moving
in, deposition testimony provided by Plaintiff shows that Laura moved in after
the purchase of the property, which included the inspection by Tom and the
seller. (See Pl.’s Exh. 4, 29:22-25 and 53:5-7.) Plaintiff, while arguing that
this inspection is not reasonable, does not provide legal argument as to why
the inspection under the facts would not be considered reasonable. (See Opp.
23:19-21.)  
 
Further,
as to the argument regarding Tom’s credibility (Opp. 22:3-23:4), Plaintiff’s
cited case, Donchin, focuses on a direct denial of knowledge of dogs on
a premises and a direct denial of allowing dogs on the premises followed by a
contradiction found in the lease and responses to interrogatories. (Donchin,
supra, 34 Cal.App.4th 1832, 1841.) This is not the case here. First,
Tom’s declaration states that he visited sometime prior to the incident during
one of his infrequent visits and became aware of dogs on the property. (See
Decl. Tom ¶ 11 [“After renting the subject residence to LAURA DEGHIONNO, on one
of my infrequent visits to the property before the date of the subject
incident, May 21, 2020, I became aware that she had one or more dogs on the
property that she owned and cared for, . . .”].) This does not contradict Tom’s
deposition testimony where he states that Laura told him that one of the dogs
he had met in 2012 or 2013 was one of the dogs in the incident. (Pl.’s Exh. 4
95:22-96:2.) Second, Plaintiff’s presentation that he still believes that the
dogs are not dangerous because Animal Control did not take the dogs while not
calling Animal Control is inapposite. This is neither contradictory nor is it
applicable as it is after the incident. Hence, the Court sustained Moving
Defendants’ objections in regards to this matter. Finally, while Plaintiff
presents that Tom is making contradictory statements by stating that he took
care of the landlord management responsibilities for the subject premises while
not performing any repairs or maintenance, on their face, the statements do not
appear to directly contradict each other. Plaintiff’s final argument relies on
several pieces of evidence. The Court discusses them as follows:
 
(1)  
Facts related to the Request for Judicial Notice No. 1 (Pl.’s
Alternate UMF Nos. 25-27 [discussing the incident that occurred]) and Tom’s
deposition at page 44, lines 12 through 20; and page 93, line five to page 95,
line five which are presented as “While Defendant TOM told LAURA that she could
not have a bunch of dogs at the subject residence for safety reasons and
concerns, he doesn’t check up on the property to ensure LAURA is abiding by his
rules.” (Pl.’s Additional UMF No. 25.) The Court has sustained Moving
Defendants’ objection this alternate fact. Further, page 44, lines 12-20 does
not state anything about not having dogs and page 93, line five to page 95,
line five states that he realized Laura was taking in dogs to rehome, told her
that should could not have “a collection of dogs,” and was okay with dogs “so
long as she did not collect and keep them.” There is also no presentation as to
the timing of when this discussion between Tom and Laura occurred. Plaintiff
has stated that Laura had two dogs both in the Complaint and her opposing
papers. (See Complaint ¶¶ 1, 3, 4 (mislabeled as 3), 5 (mislabeled as 4), 12-13,
23, 25; Opposition 6:5-7, 7:8-11, 8:15-17, 8:25-26, 9:27-10:2, 20:14-27). Thus,
this does not constitute evidence that Laura contradicted Tom in any way and
would be considered untrustworthy.
(2)  
A fact related to the Request for Judicial Notice Exh.
1 explicitly described as: “Dillinger, one of the DOGS, was exhibiting
aggression before this incident as reported in the 2019 incident report where
LAURA stated that he was getting into fights with other dogs at the subject
premises.” The Court sustained the objection to this alternate fact. This argument
is also not well taken by the Court as it is a misstatement of the report which
only explicitly discusses Dillinger in one sentence: “She had to keep Rascal
separate because he would get into fights with Dillinger.” (RJN, Exh. 1.) As
mentioned, ante, Rascal was euthanized prior to the incident and is not
related in any way to this action. For clarity, the Court notes that Laura
stated only that “the dogs,” no specific dog mentioned, were starting to get
into fights with each other and get out of the gate. (Ibid.) The Court
as discussed this statement, ante.
(3)  
Facts related to Tom’s deposition wherein he discussed
Laura telling him about the incident (Pl.’s Alternate UMF Nos. 49-51). Plaintiff
presents that “TOM doesn’t understand why LAURA didn’t relay the full and
accurate story to him.” (Pl.’s Alternate UMF No. 51) The Court sustained the
objection to this alternate fact. The presentation of this fact is a
misstatement as Tom states: “Yes. She did not relay that to me, no. I think --
I can understand why, but okay.” (Pl.’s Exh. 4, 139:14-15.) Further, in the
portion not highlighted by Plaintiff, Tom states: “Well, that was so long ago
that I can't tell you that she did tell me that. I just know that in my mind, I
only thought about the arm incident. But when I talked to her recently, she
told me about the other possibility that the dog bit her leg, yes. That she
told me recently. But she may have said that prior, but I just don't
recollect.” (Id., 149:7-13.) Thus, the evidence does not show what
Plaintiff’s sustained objection states. Instead, it shows that Tom can understand
why Laura wouldn’t expand fully on the incident if that is what occurred in the
first discussion, Tom cannot remember the first discussion, and Laura told Tom
about the full incident recently.
(4)  
Facts once again related to the Request for Judicial
Notice Exh. 1 presented as “TOM did not allow LAURA to run a breeding business
at the subject residence, yet, her dogs were having puppies and she sold those
out of the subject residence for $20 per puppy before the subject incident[]”
and “LAURA never informed TOM that she was selling puppies out of the subject
residence for $20.” (Pl.’s Alternate UMF Nos. 54-55.) The Court sustained the
objections to these alterate facts. Further, there has been no showing that
Laura was actively breeding dogs, only that at one point in time she was
selling puppies out of the subject residence. 
 
As to all
the aforementioned bulleted arguments, they would go to Laura’s credibility
rather than Tom’s. Plaintiff’s arguments regarding Tom’s credibility are
significantly distinguished from the exculpatory statements in Donchin. 
 
Ultimately,
Plaintiff has not shown Moving Defendants’ knowledge of the dogs’ dangerous
propensities. 
 
Accordingly,
the Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
 
-----
 
Reply
 
Moving Defendants present that
Plaintiff has failed to catalogue any competent, admissible evidence whatsoever
that the subject dogs even had a dangerous propensity and failed to prove that
Moving Defendants knew of a dangerous propensity. Moving Defendants argue that
Plaintiff’s Opposition is attempting to create a duty on the part of landlords
to conduct period inspections of a tenant’s property to ferret out dangerous
conditions, including dogs, when they are not on notice. Moving Defendants
reiterate that Cal. Civ. Code § 1954 limits a landlord’s right to enter a
leased dwelling. Moving Defendants further take issue with Plaintiff’s
alternate facts as they believe several of the alternate facts constitute
inadmissible hearsay. Thus, Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiff did not meet
her burden.
 
Moving Defendants’ Reply also
contains an argument that Plaintiff has not shown good cause for a continuance.
 
The Court need not address the
argument regarding Plaintiff’s request for a continuance. The Court directs the
parties to Section III, ante, where the decision regarding the
continuance has been discussed. 
 
Moving Defendants’ Reply arguments
do not affect the Court’s analysis. Accordingly, the Court’s opinion remains
unchanged. 
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants Tom Deghionno and
Audrey Deghionno’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.


