 Case Number:  22AVCV00396    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background This is a Premises Liability action. Plaintiff Alisa Turner (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on March 04, 2022, while Plaintiff was at Defendant Walmart Inc. (“Defendant”)’s supercenter located at 44665 Valley Center Way Lancaster, CA, (the “Premises”) she slipped and fell due to the dangerous condition of Defendant’s sales floor. On June 06, 2022, Plaintiff filed her Complaint alleging one cause of action for Premises Liability. On July 11, 2022, Defendant filed its Answer. On September 30, 2022, Defendant filed three motions: (1) a Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Answers to Request for Production of Documents; (2) a Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Answers to Form Interrogatories, and (3) a Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Answers to Special Interrogatories. On December 06, 2022, the aforementioned motions were granted. On January 11, 2023, Defendant filed a Motion for Terminating Sanctions, scheduled for February 28, 2023. The hearing on this matter did not occur as Defendant took the motion off calendar. On October 03, 2023, Defendant filed a Motion of Defendant Walmart, Inc. for Sanctions (“Motion for Sanctions”), scheduled for November 21, 2023. On October 26, 2023, the Court gave notice that the hearing on the Motion for Sanctions was continued from November 21, 2023 to November 28, 2023 at 8:30 am in Michael Antonovich Antelope Valley Courthouse 42011 4th Street West, Lancaster, CA 93534. (See 10/26/2023 Notice RE: Continuance of Hearing and Order.) On November 16, 2023, Defendant filed a Notice of Non-Opposition. On the same day, Plaintiff filed an Opposition along with a Declaration from Plaintiff’s counsel, Loren B. Halpern (“Halpern”), regarding the late filing. On November 28, 2023, the Court called the matter for hearing. Then-counsel for Defendant, Laurie Lynn Marquis, appeared telephonically. There were no appearances by Plaintiff. On December 08, Plaintiff filed an objection to Defendant’s Proposed Order, filed with the Motion for Sanctions. On December 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed this Motion for Reconsideration. On January 09, 2024, Defendant filed its Opposition. On January 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed her Reply. ----- Legal Standard Standard for Reconsideration – Cal. Civ. Code Proc. § 1008(a) states:¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order.¿ The party making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.¿¿¿ ¿¿¿¿ A court acts in excess of jurisdiction when it grants a motion to reconsider that is not based upon “new or different facts, circumstances or law.” (Gilberd v. AC Transit (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 1494, 1499.)¿Motions for reconsideration are restricted to circumstances where a party offers the Court some fact or circumstance not previously considered, and some valid reason for not offering it earlier.¿ (Id.)¿¿¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ Moreover, there is a strict requirement of diligence, which means the moving party must present a satisfactory explanation for failing to provide the evidence or different facts earlier.¿ (Garcia v. Hejmadi (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 674, 690.)¿ The burden under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1008 is comparable to that of a party seeking a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information must be such that the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced it at trial.¿ (New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-213; Mink v. Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.App.4th 1338 [“ ‘[T]he party seeking reconsideration must provide not only new evidence but also a satisfactory explanation for the failure to produce that evidence at an earlier time.’ ”]; Glade v. Glade (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 1441 [“The party seeking reconsideration must provide not just new evidence or different facts, but a satisfactory explanation for the failure to produce it at an earlier time.”].)¿¿¿ ¿¿ New circumstances can be shown by evidence that the court failed to consider a timely-filed memorandum of points and authorities in its prior ruling.¿ (Johnston v. Corrigan (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 553, 556.)¿¿¿¿¿  ----- Discussion Application – There are three initial matters the Court must address. First, there appears to be an issue of timeliness. Cal. Civ. Code Proc. § 1008 provides a 10-day timeline for a motion for consideration. (See Cal. Civ. Code Proc. § 1008(a) [“When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon. . .”].) The certificate of mailing for the Court’s Hearing on the Motion for Sanctions, i.e., written notice of entry of the order, is dated November 28, 2023. Ten days from November 28, 2023 is Friday, December 08, 2023. Plaintiff filed this motion on December 13, 2023, five days past the time set out by statute. However, this issue is resolved by the holding in Bd. of Medical Quality Assurance v. Superior Court (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 361, 701 fn. 4 which reads: “The time limitation of Code of Civil Procedure section 1008 is not jurisdictional. Trial courts have inherent authority to reconsider interim rulings until final judgment. (Blue Mountain Development Co. v. Carville (1982) 132 Cal.App.3d 1005, 1013 [183 Cal.Rptr. 594].)” Second, Plaintiff’s presentation that the Court ruled on a withdrawn motion (Mtn. for Reconsideration 3:22-24, 4:1-3, 11:17-22) is incorrect. The Court directs the parties to the Background section, ante. The Court ruled upon the Motion for Sanctions filed on October 03, 2023 which requested terminating sanctions or, in the alternative, evidentiary and/or issue sanctions and monetary sanctions. (See 10/03/2023 Mtn. for Sanctions.) The Court notes that further proof is found in the tentative, labeled as Exhibit 10, which makes notice of the new filing and Plaintiff’s Opposition, to Plaintiff’s Motion for Reconsideration. However, the Court emphasizes that a tentative is not part of the record as it did not become the ruling of the Court. Because of Halpern’s presentation to the Court, the Court has looked to the Minute Order in which Halpern believes that the wrong order has been ruled upon. The Court finds that there is clerical error in its November 28, 2023 Minute Order wherein the Minute Order states: “The Motion for Terminating Sanctions (CRS #907411441188) filed by Walmart, Inc. on 01/11/2023 is Granted.” (11/28/2023 Minute Order.) To correct the clerical error, the November 28, 2023 Minute Order issued by this Court is corrected by striking the following: “The Motion for Terminating Sanctions (CRS #907411441188) filed by Walmart, Inc. on 01/11/2023 is Granted” and by inserting in lieu thereof the following: “The Motion for Sanctions (CRS #230854262671) filed by Walmart on 10/03/2023 is Granted.” Third, while Halpern presents that he sent defense counsel an email advising that he was taking over handling of the case (Decl. Halpern ¶ 3, Exh. 2), no notice of change of handling attorney or any notification to the Court has been filed by Plaintiff. Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.251(g) provides in pertinent part: (1) “[a] party or other person whose electronic service address changes while the action or proceeding is pending must promptly file a notice of change of address electronically with the court and must serve this notice electronically on all other parties and all other persons required to be served,” and (2) “[a]n electronic service address is presumed valid for a party or other person if the party or other person files electronic documents with the court from that address and has not filed and served notice that the address is no longer valid.” (See Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.251(g)(1), (3).) Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 284 provides: “The attorney in an action or special proceeding may be changed at any time before or after judgment of final determination, as follows: 1. Upon the consent of both client and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered upon the minutes; 2. Upon the order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after notice from one to the other.” It is also well settled that “[i]t is not incumbent upon litigants to investigate the relationship between opposing attorneys of record and their clients. In the absence of actual and timely notice, they and the courts have every right to rely upon the court records as binding upon both litigants and the attorneys appearing of record in their behalf.” (People ex rel. Department of Public Works v. Hook (1967) 248 Cal.App.2d 618, 624.) Jesse Halpern remains the handling attorney in the Court’s record at this time. Halpern must provide an update to the Court pursuant to Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 284 and Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.251(g). The Court next turns to the motion itself. Plaintiff presents that Halpern was not given the opportunity to speak at the hearing. Halpern declares that he was at the hearing “via zoom,” but he did not have an opportunity to speak. (See Decl. Halpern ¶ 23, Exh. 11.) Halpern concedes that this was not due to the Court, but rather that he had an error with his microphone. (Mtn. for Reconsideration 9:28-10-2, 12:23-24; Decl. Halpern ¶ 24.) The Court does not use the Zoom software platform, but rather Los Angeles Court Connect (“LACC”). The Court understands Halpern’s reference to “Zoom” to mean LACC. It is unclear why Halpern did not contact the Court as Department A14’s phone number is readily available to counsel. However, that does not detract from counsel’s declaration and screenshot, evidencing that a technical error occurred on his end.  Defendant argues that Plaintiff fails to establish adequate grounds for reconsideration as the only new or different facts or circumstances Plaintiff has presented was (1) the Court ruled on the wrong motion, and (2) Halpern’s microphone did not work. Defendant presents that the Court did not rule on the wrong motion, highlighting that the Court refers to the first motion for terminating sanctions, the Court’s Minute Order states that the matter called for hearing is the Motion for Sanctions and that it is clear from a complete reading that the motion ruled upon is the Motion for Sanctions. Thus, Defendant believes that this is not enough for a Motion for Reconsideration. Next Defendant argues that Halpern’s microphone issue did not violate Plaintiff’s rights as Plaintiff fails to explain why no other attempts were made to appear at the hearing or no earlier attempts were made to notify the Court of her attempt to appear, emphasizing that each party receives from LACC prior to any remote hearing a back up phone number and the confirmation form advises: “If you have audio or video problems, or do not have access to join by computer or smart phone: Backup conference phone number: (213) 793-4728.” (Decl. John T. Hill ¶ 31, Exh. F). Thus, Defendant presents that Plaintiff had the opportunity to present an Opposition and an argument and counsel’s inability to make the Court aware of his appearance during and/or immediately following the hearing reflect the same disregard which necessitated not one but two Motions to Terminate and the failure rests on Defendant, not the Court. In Reply, Plaintiff argues that her motion did demonstrate new and different facts and circumstances and the Court ruled upon the wrong motion. Plaintiff states that her counsel did not have enough time to call the backup phone line but could only take a screenshot of his computer to prove he was in fact at the hearing but could not be heard. It appears that Plaintiff is attempting to make her Reply a declaration by Halpern as the final page includes the statement, “I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the above is true and correct,” and a signature line signed by Halpern. Plaintiff’s Reply goes further to discuss that she did not abuse discovery, that she is willing to submit to a physical examination, and arguments related to the previously noticed physical examination and her surgery. The Court notes that, though Plaintiff presents that she was not served properly with the Demand for Physical Examination, this appears to be an argument presented for consideration upon the granting of reconsideration. Further, Plaintiff had also presented this argument in her late-filed Opposition to the Motion for Sanctions, which the Court considered, and as such, this contention cannot be a basis for the Motion for Reconsideration as it is not new or different facts, circumstances, or law. (See legal standard, ante.) The Court accepts Plaintiff’s presentation of the technical error as a new circumstance as it led to an oral argument failing to be heard on Plaintiff’s behalf. Accordingly, the Motion for Reconsideration is GRANTED. The Court turns to the presented arguments by the parties filed with the Motion for Sanctions. The Court disregards new argument presented in the Motion for Reconsideration, its Opposition, and the Reply that are focused on sanctions and unrelated to reconsideration. Defendant requested terminating or issue/evidentiary sanctions as Plaintiff failed to appear for a physical examination and conducted surgery on parts of her body that were at issue in this action. Defendant presents Plaintiff’s neck is altered and/or destroyed forever and it cannot investigate Plaintiff’s physical condition. (See Mtn. for Sanctions Spoilation of Evidence section.) Because of the aforementioned facts, Defendant argues that Plaintiff has abused the discovery process and destroyed evidence, leading the requested sanctions (i.e., terminating or issue/evidentiary sanctions) to be warranted as there is no remedy available for Defendant. (Id. 8:3-11:3.) Defendant also requests $800.00 in the cancellation fee for the scheduled physical examination. (Id. 11:4-12.) Plaintiff presents that the Demand for Physical Examination was served to Jesse Halpern, not Halpern who was handling the case and, as such, Halpern was not aware of the demand for physical examination until July 31, 2023, when defense counsel’s email confirming the examination was forwarded to Hapern’s secretary. Plaintiff argues that she did not spoil any evidence because the medical procedure was needed to alleviate the intense paid and suffering from the incident and Defendant can still examine Plaintiff after her surgery. Plaintiff further argues that her body is not property and, as such, is not subject to the spoilation argument. Plaintiff next presents that she has a constitutionally protected right to receive medical treatment under England v. La. State Bd. of Med. Examiners (5th Cir. 1958) 259 15 F.2d 626, 627 (“England”). Plaintiff’s next argument concedes that she received a surgical fusion surgery. Plaintiff presents that a cervical fusion is not elective as she had pain and that elective surgeries are cosmetic surgeries. Defendant did not file a Reply as Plaintiff’s Opposition was filed on the day the Reply was due. The Court has discussed the issue with Halpern’s electronic address, ante. A movant seeking discovery sanctions based on the alleged spoliation of evidence proceeds by showing a prima facie case that the respondent destroyed evidence which had a substantial probability to establish an element of the movant’s defense. (Williams v. Russ (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1226.) The burden then shifts to the respondent to show otherwise. (Ibid.) The terminating sanctions or, in the alternative, issue and/or evidentiary sanctions are based on Plaintiff’s treatment on her neck. Defendant has presented that (1) Plaintiff’s physical condition is at issue in this action, (2) that the surgery has prevented Defendant from being able to investigate Plaintiff’s claims, (3) Plaintiff knew of the physical examination, but continued with the surgery prior to the physical examination, and (4) any evidence related to Plaintiff’s neck which could provide a defense has been altered. The Court believes a prima facie case has been shown that as any evidence of the impact the incident had on Plaintiff’s neck has been altered permanently. The burden then shifts to respondent, Plaintiff, to show otherwise. Plaintiff has conceded that she received a surgical fusion surgery on her neck. Plaintiff’s argument regarding fusion surgeries being non-elective is not well taken. It is common knowledge that elective surgeries may extend to more serious conditions and Plaintiff has not presented any evidence that the surgery was necessary. There has also been no showing that Plaintiff’s procedure could not have waited for two days in order to conduct the physical examination. Plaintiff’s constitutional argument fails as well as there has been no showing that the persuasive authority, England, applies in the context of this action. That is, Plaintiff underwent a surgery on a body part at issue in the action that has not been evidenced to be necessary prior to a physical examination. Plaintiff’s arguments regarding spoilation of evidence does not include any citation to a legal standard or statute. Plaintiff states only that the surgery was to relieve pain and that her body is not subject to spoilation. Thus, Plaintiff has not met her burden. As to monetary sanctions, Defendant seeks the $800.00 cancellation fee due to Plaintiff’s lack of respect for the Civil Discovery Act. In light of the error in service of the Demand for Physical Examination, the Court declines to impose monetary sanctions. Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the Motion for Sanctions in part as to terminating sanctions, and DENIES the Motion for Sanctions as to Monetary Sanctions.  ----- Conclusion  Plaintiff Alisa Turner’s Motion for Reconsideration is GRANTED. The Court reconsiders the Motion for Sanctions. Defendant Walmart, Inc.’s Motion for Sanctions is GRANTED in part as to terminating sanctions and DENIED in part as to monetary sanctions.