 Case Number:  23STCV00049    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



GCIU-EMPLOYER RETIREMENT FUND, et
  al., 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
MANAGEMENT APPLIED PROGRAMMING,
  LLC,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV00049
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 11, 2024
 Calendar Number:  3



 
 
 
Plaintiffs GCIU-Employer Retirement Fund (the “Plaintiff
Fund”) and Board of Trustees of the GCIU-Employer Retirement Fund (the
“Plaintiff Board”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) move for summary adjudication
of issues against Defendant Management Applied Programming, LLC d/b/a Benefit
Programs Administration (“Defendant”)
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion.
 
Background
 
This is a breach of contract case.
 
Plaintiff Fund is a multiemployer defined benefit pension
plan, which means that it receives pension contributions from numerous separate
employers who make the contributions on behalf of their employees. Plaintiff
Board is the Board of Trustees of Plaintiff Fund. Plaintiff board has the
fiduciary task of ensuring that employees of participating employers receive
their pension benefits.
 
On May 12, 1988, Plaintiff Board and Defendant entered into
a written Administrative Services Contract (the “Contract”) whereby Defendant
was to provide certain administrative services for the operation of Plaintiff
Fund. (Undisputed Fact (“UF”) 1.) Pursuant to the Contract, Defendant was
required to maintain offices and personnel to perform the services laid out in
the Contract. (UF 2.) Those services included maintaining a current record of
employers participating in the trust fund, maintaining a file for each
employer, keeping records of the covered hours of employment reported, receive
and verify the accuracy of employer contributions and reports, process
delinquent employer accounts, prepare the agenda and minutes for trust fund
meetings, and attend trust fund meetings. (UF 3.)
 
Section 6.3 of the Contract states:
 
“While
[Defendant] is executing this agreement as an independent contractor, it is
understood and agreed that, as respects all matters of Trust Fund
administration, [Defendant] shall follow and abide by the motions, resolutions,
benefit plan provisions, and administrative procedures adopted by the Board of
Trustees. [Defendant] shall be liable to the Trust Fund for any acts or
omissions which are not in compliance with such motions, resolutions, benefit
plan provisions, and administrative procedures, provided however, that
[Defendant] shall not be liable for acts or omissions which are beyond the
reasonable control of [Defendant] or which, by the exercise of reasonable
diligence, the Company is unable to prevent.”
 
(UF 4; Ex. 1 at AOE-12, ¶ 6.3.)
 
Defendant continued acting as Plaintiffs’ third-party
administrator from May 1998 through August 31, 2018. (UF 5, 17.) 
 
On November 21, 2002, the Plaintiff Board adopted written
Withdrawal Liability Procedures (the “Procedures”). (UF 6.) The stated purpose
of the Procedures was to enforce the liabilities imposed on employers that
withdraw from the Plaintiff fund on or after January 1, 2002, in a manner
consistent with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (“ERISA”) and
applicable regulations promulgated by the Pension Benefit Guarantee
Corporation. (UF 7.)
 
The Procedures require Defendant to, among other things,
identify when a participating employer has partially or completely withdrawn
from the Plaintiff fund (UF 8.) These tasks include:
 
“(i)
identify when an employer ‘complete withdrawal’ has occurred, using the
criteria set forth in the Procedures;
 
(ii)
identify when an employer ‘partial withdrawal’ has occurred, using the criteria
set forth in the Procedures;
 
(iii)
consult with Fund Legal Counsel if there is any question as to whether a
complete withdrawal has occurred and an employer’s specific withdrawal date;
 
(iv)
promptly notify the Fund Actuary in writing once a complete withdrawal or
partial withdrawal and withdrawal date are identified for an employer, so that
the Fund Actuary may calculate the withdrawal liability.”
 
(UF 8, Exhibit 2 at AOE-022, ¶
II(2); AOE- 023, ¶¶ III(4); AOE-024, ¶ III(5); AOE- 025, ¶ IV(1); AOE-026, ¶
V(1); and AOE-027, ¶ V(5).
 
            After
the Plaintiff Fund’s actuary (the “Actuary”) has calculated an employer’s
withdrawal liability, the Procedures require the Actuary to notify the
Administrative Office, run by Defendant, in writing. (UF 9.) Upon receipt of
the Actuary’s calculation of employer liability, the Procedures require the
Administrative Office to notify the employer of the amount of the liability and
the schedule for payments, and to demand repayment. (UF 10.) Such notices are
required to be sent by registered mail within 30 days of the Administrative
Office’s receipt of the Actuary’s calculations. (UF 10.) If an employer fails
to make any withdrawal liability payment when due, the Procedures require the
Administrative Office to provide written notice of such failure and demand
cure. (UF 11.)
 
            Defendant
oversaw the withdrawal liability program from November 21, 2002 until August
31, 2018. (UF 17.)
 
            On
January 1, 2003, and January 1, 2004, Plaintiffs and Defendant entered into
amendments to the Contract which increased Defendant’s compensation for
performing administrative services. (UF 13-14.) In Defendant’s contract
extension requests for 2004-2012, Defendant requested further fee increases,
citing Defendant’s administration of the employer withdrawal liability program
as a reason for further fee increases. (UF 15-16.)
 
Plaintiff filed this action on January 3, 2023, raising
claims for (1) breach of contract; and (2) breach of implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing.
 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant failed to comply with the
Withdrawal Liability Procedures and failed to diligently pursue withdrawal
liability assessments and collections. Plaintiffs allege that they were denied
the opportunity to recover and precluded from recovering over $7 million in
withdrawal liability assessments that they would otherwise have had the right
and ability to collect.
 
In Defendant’s responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for
Admission, Defendant denied (i) that it was obligated to follow and abide by
the motions, resolutions, benefit plan provisions, and administrative
procedures adopted by Plaintiffs; and (ii) that it was obligated to follow the
Plaintiff Fund’s Withdrawal Liability Procedures. (UF 18.)
 
            Plaintiffs
filed this motion for summary adjudication on April 25, 2024. Plaintiffs seek
summary adjudication that, as a matter of law, Defendant owed a contractual
duty to Plaintiffs to comply with and act in accordance with the Withdrawal
Liability Procedures the Plaintiff Board adopted on November 21, 2002, as
subsequently amended by the Plaintiff Board.
 
            Defendant
did not file an opposition.  Defendant
filed a notice of non-opposition on July 2, 2024.
 
Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co., supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
“In ruling on the motion,
the court must consider all of the evidence and all of the inferences
reasonably drawn therefrom [citation] and must view such evidence [citations]
and such inferences [citations] in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.” (Aguilar, supra, at pp. 844-845 [quotation marks
omitted].) 
 
“On a motion for summary
judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima
facie
showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) 
 
“A plaintiff or
cross-complainant has met his or her burden of showing that there is no defense
to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the cause of
action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action. Once the
plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
defendant or cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The
defendant or cross-defendant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of
its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but,
instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)
 
 To establish a triable issue of material fact,
the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.) “If the plaintiff cannot do
so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente
Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
Discussion
 
A party may move for summary adjudication of issues of duty.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) “[I]f, under the facts and
circumstances of a given case, a court finds it appropriate to determine the
existence or nonexistence of a duty in the nature of a contractual obligation,
it may properly do so by a ruling on that issue presented by a motion for
summary adjudication.” (Linden Partners v. Wilshire Linden Assocs. (1998)
62 Cal.App.4th 508, 519.)
 
Section 6.3 of the Contract requires Defendant to follow the
administrative procedures adopted by the Plaintiff Board. (UF 4.) The Plaintiff
Board adopted the Procedures on November 21, 2002. (UF 6, 7.) Defendant was
required to attend and prepare minutes for the board meeting. (UF 3.)
 
The Procedures require Defendant to determine when an
employer withdrawal has occurred and inform the Actuary. (UF 8.) The Procedures
also require Defendant, upon receipt of the Actuary’s liability calculations,
to inform withdrawing employers of their liability and pursue collection. (UF
9-11.) Further, Defendant’s subsequent behavior in seeking fee increases during
contract renewals indicates that Defendant was aware of its obligation to
administer the employer withdrawal liability program. (UF 13-16.)
 
Plaintiffs have shown that the undisputed facts show that
Defendant was required under the Contract to comply with and act in accordance
with the Withdrawal Liability Procedures. Defendant has not raised a triable
issue of fact in response to this showing. Summary adjudication is therefore
appropriate.
 
The Court grants Plaintiff’s motion for summary
adjudication.