 Case Number:  24STCV01883    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
10, 2024                                       TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                           
CASE:                         Angela Pasquini
v. Decron Properties Corp., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV01883
 





















 
MOTION
FOR AN ORDER TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY THE ACTION



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants
Decron Properties Corp. and Villa Cezanne Apartments
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Angela
Pasquini 
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
In
2020, Plaintiff Angela Pasquini (“Pasquini” or “Plaintiff”) was hired as a Residential
Assistant Community Manager with Decron Properties Corp. (“Decron”).  Pursuant
to her employment, Pasquini lived and worked at the Ascent Apartments, which is
owned by Villa Cezanne Apartments (“VCA”). 
Pasquini reported to Senior Community Manager Robin Sidenstecker
(“Sidenstecker”) and Director Gino Cesario (“Cesario”).  David Nagel (“Nagel”) is the CEO of Decron.  Decron and VCA are joint employers.  
            On January 24, 2024, Pasquini
filed a complaint against Decron, VCA, Sidenstecker, Cesario, and Nagel for: 
1.     
Breach of Express and Implied Contract;
2.     
Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing;
3.     
Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy
4.     
Violation of California Government Code §§12900, 12955,
et seq.
5.     
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; 
6.     
Violation of Business & Professions Code §17200; 
7.     
Intentional Misrepresentation [Fraud], Negligent
Misrepresentation and Concealment;
8.     
Violation of California Labor Code- (Whistleblower)
§§1102.5, 6311; 
9.     
Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability/Quiet
Enjoyment; 
10.  Nuisance;

11.  Negligence-Premises
Liability; 
12.  Negligence,
Negligent Supervision, Negligent Management 
13. 
Violation of Civil Code §§51, et seq., 52.1,
54.1.
In
short, Pasquini makes the following allegations:  During Pasquini’s employment and tenancy at
the Ascent Apartments, she made complaints to Defendants.  Additionally, Pasquini developed medical
conditions which caused her disability and entitled her to disability
accommodation.  However, Defendants refused
to accommodate her.  Pasquini also
requested her annual performance review, which Defendants refused to
provide.  In retaliation for requesting a
performance review and for needing to take disability leave, Defendants
provided Pasquini with a false performance review claiming the report had been reviewed
with her and that Pasquini’s performance was poor.  Eventually, despite her good job performance,
Defendants terminated Pasquini’s employment and evicted her. 
            On February 27, 2024, Decron and VCA
(hereafter, “Defendants”) filed this Motion for an Order to Compel Arbitration
and Stay the Action.  The motion was
heard on April 18, 2024.  After oral
argument, the court requested supplemental briefing on three issues: 1) Whether the conclusory
allegations in a Plaintiff’s Complaint are sufficient to invoke the Ending
Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act (“the EFAA”); 2)
whether Plaintiff should be allowed leave to amend her Complaint to bring her
Complaint within the meaning of the EFAA; and 3) when it is unclear from the
“shotgun pleadings” which causes of action a statement regarding sexual
harassment applies, how should the court apply the Act in determining which (if
any) causes of action may not be compelled to arbitration.  
            The parties submitted supplemental
briefing.  The court issued a tentative
ruling noting that Defendants did not provide authority for the proposition
that the court may disregard Plaintiff’s sexual harassment allegation.  However, because Plaintiff’s briefing still
did not adequately describe the factual events supporting her sexual harassment
claim, the court again ordered more briefing.
            The issues have been briefed.  The court rules as follows.
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
            California law incorporates many of
the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including
a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th
951, 971-72.) Under
both the FAA and California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable,
and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding
a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The petitioner bears the
burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence, the party opposing the petition then bears the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to
demonstrate that there should be no enforcement of the agreement, and the trial
court sits as a trier of fact to reach a final determination on the issue. (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.)  Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1281.2, the Court can compel parties to an arbitration agreement to arbitrate
their dispute. 
 
The
party petitioning to compel arbitration under written arbitration agreement
bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence, and party opposing petition must meet the same
evidentiary burden to prove any facts necessary to its defense.  The trial court acts as the trier of fact,
weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; Provencio v.
WMA Securities, Inc. (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1031.)
 
III.       EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
            Plaintiff generally and throughout her
opposition challenges the admissibility and authenticity of the Employment
Agreement attached as Exhibit A to the Declaration of Rick Spade.  The objection is overruled.  In People
v. Cruz, the Appellate Court stated: 
 “Authentication of a writing .... is required
before it may be admitted in evidence. ([Evid. Code,] §§ 250, 1401.)
Authentication is to be determined by the trial court as a preliminary fact
([Evid. Code,] § 403, subd. (a)(3)) and is statutorily defined [as relevant
here] as ‘the introduction of evidence sufficient to sustain a finding that it
is the writing that the proponent of the evidence claims it is’ .... (§ 1400.)”
(People v. Goldsmith (2014) 59 Cal.4th 258, 266, 172 Cal.Rptr.3d
637, 326 P.3d 239 (Goldsmith).) “[W]hat is necessary is a prima facie case.
‘As long as the evidence would support a finding of authenticity, the writing
is admissible.’ ” (Id. at p. 267, 172 Cal.Rptr.3d 637, 326 P.3d 239.)  
Thus, a writing can be authenticated if its
proponent adduces evidence sufficient to make a prima facie showing that the
writing is what its proponent claims it is, or, in other words, that the
writing is, “genuine for the purpose offered.” (Goldsmith, supra, 59 Cal.4th at p. 267, 172 Cal.Rptr.3d 637, 326
P.3d 239.) Conflicting inferences regarding the writing's authenticity go to
the weight of the writing as evidence, not its admissibility. (Ibid.) “ ‘As long as the evidence would support a finding of authenticity,
the writing is admissible. The fact conflicting inferences can be drawn
regarding authenticity goes to the document's weight as evidence, not its
admissibility.’ ” (People v. Valdez (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 1429, 1435, 135
Cal.Rptr.3d 628.)
Except as provided by statute, the testimony of
a subscribing witness is not required to authenticate a writing (Evid. Code, §
1411), and there are no limits on the means by which a writing may be
authenticated. (Evid. Code, § 1410 [“Nothing in this article shall be construed
to limit the means by which a writing may be authenticated or proved.”].)
Rather, a writing may be authenticated by its contents and circumstantial
evidence, including the testimony of witnesses other than the person or persons who created the writing or witnessed its
creation. (Goldsmith, supra, 59 Cal.4th at p. 268, 172 Cal.Rptr.3d 637, 326
P.3d 239; People v. Landry (2016) 2 Cal.5th 52, 87, 211 Cal.Rptr.3d 160,
385 P.3d 327.)
 
(People v. Cruz (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th
715, 729.) 
 
            Importantly,
in Plaintiff’s Declaration, she admits to signing the documents.  In fact, she states she was required to
“complete and sign [the documents] on my first day of work.”  She argues she did not have an opportunity to
“read or review the documents before [she] signed them.”  (Pasquini Decl., ¶ 5.)  Contrary to Plaintiff’s argument, Plaintiff admits
to signing the documents.  
            
            Mr.
Spade testified to the custom and practice of Decron’s personnel policies and
procedures.  Based upon his familiarity
with the practices and procedures, he located the Employment Agreement in Plaintiff’s
personnel file.  Mr. Spade testified that
typically Assistant Community Managers for Decron are provided with an
employment contract.  Exhibit A fits that
description.  All of the pages are
initialed “AP”; page five is signed and dated and countered signed by Gino
Cesario, from Decron; page seven is signed and dated; page 9 is signed and
dated and Plaintiff’s name is also hand printed; Page 10 is signed and dated;
page 11 is signed and dated; page 13 is signed and dated.  
 
            The
hearsay objection to Exhibit A is overruled. 
(Jazayeri v. Mao (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 301, 316 [“documents
containing operative facts, such as the words forming an agreement, are not hearsay”];
People v. Jimenez (1995) 38 Cal.App.4th 795, 802; People v. Dell (1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 248, 261–262;  Kepner-Tregoe,
Inc. v. Leadership Software, Inc., (5th Cir. 1994) 12
F.3d 527, 540 [“Signed instruments such as wills,
contracts, and promissory notes are writings that have independent legal
significance, and are nonhearsay”].) 
    
            Pasquini
separately raises ten (10) objections to the Declaration of Rick Spade and Exhibits
A and B.[1]  The objections are overruled.
 
IV.       DISCUSSION
 
            Defendants move to compel
arbitration and stay the proceedings in this matter.  In opposition, Plaintiff raises seven
arguments which generally fall into the following categories: existence of the
agreement, enforceability, and miscellaneous challenges.  The court addresses each below. 
            
A.     Existence of Arbitration Agreement 
Pasquini was employed with Decron as an Assistant
Community Manager beginning on or about February 3, 2020.  (Spade Decl., ¶
4.)  On February 3, 2020, Pasquini signed an Arbitration Agreement wherein
she agreed to arbitrate any claims that arose out of her employment with Decron. 
(Rodriguez Decl., Exh. A.)  The Agreement is between Pasquini and Decron. 
(Id.)  Pursuant to the Arbitration Agreement, Pasquini and Decron
agreed to “binding arbitration.”  (Id.)  Specifically, Pasquini and Decron voluntarily
agreed that:  
The Parties agree that any dispute that may arise in connection with,
arising out of or relating to this Agreement, or any dispute that relates in
any way, in whole or in part, to Employee's hiring by, employment with or
separation from the Company, and its parent, subsidiary and affiliated
corporations and entities, and their predecessors, successors and assigns, or
any other dispute by and between the Parties, shall be submitted to binding
arbitration, and not through litigation in court or a trial before a judge or
jury. This arbitration obligation extends to any and all claims that may arise
by and between the Parties, and expressly extends to, without limitation,
claims or causes of action for wrongful termination, impairment of ability to
compete in the open labor market, breach of an express or implied contract,
breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, breach of fiduciary
duty, fraud, misrepresentation, defamation, slander, infliction of emotional
distress, discrimination, harassment, retaliation, disability, loss of future
earnings, trade secrets misappropriation, unfair competition, breach of
fiduciary duty, breach of duty of loyalty, and claims under the California
Constitution, the United States Constitution, and applicable state and federal
fair employment laws, federal equal employment opportunity laws, and federal
and state labor statutes and regulations, including, but not limited to, the
Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, the Worker Retraining and Notification
Act of 1988, as amended, the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990, as
amended, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, the California Labor Code, as amended, the
California Business and Professions Code, as amended, the California Fair
Employment and Housing Act, as amended, and all other state, federal and local
laws and regulations, and contractual and common law claims (excluding workers'
compensation, unemployment insurance claims or state or federal disability insurance
claims, and claims under any other valid statute or law that expressly
precludes arbitration of such claims).”
(Spade Decl.,
Exh. A, § 10(a).)  Pasquini’s initials appear on each page of the
employment agreement, including the page with the arbitration provision.  (Id.) 
Pasquini signed the agreement.  (Id.)  Defendants have shown that a valid agreement
to arbitrate exists.
            Plaintiff offers three arguments in
opposition.  Each fail.  The first challenge is procedural in nature.  Plaintiff argues the motion should be denied
because Defendants did not incorporate or state verbatim the terms of the arbitration
agreement in the notice of motion.  The
argument relies on a misreading of California Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.  Rule 3.1330 states, “A petition to compel
arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections
1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required allegations, the
provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that provides for
arbitration.  The provisions must be
stated verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference.” 
There is nothing in Rule 3.1330 which requires that the terms of the arbitration
agreement appear verbatim or by reference in the notice of motion.  Defendants have attached a copy of the
arbitration agreement to the Declaration of Rick Spade which was filed
concurrently with the Motion.  Defendants
complied with Rule 3.1330.
Plaintiff next argues there is no agreement to arbitrate
because she did not consent to arbitration. 
In support, Plaintiff offers her declaration where she denies agreeing
to arbitrate any claims with Defendants, denies being told that any of the
documents she was signing was an agreement to arbitrate, and denies being aware
that an agreement to arbitrate existed between her and Defendants.  (Pasquini Decl., ¶¶ 5-8.)  However, the arbitration agreement bears
Plaintiff’s initials and signature.  Indeed,
Plaintiff admits to signing the arbitration. 
 (Pasquini Decl., ¶ 5.)  Plaintiff cannot reasonably argue she did not
consent to arbitration.   Moreover, a contract may still be enforced
even if it is a contract of adhesion.  Adhesion
contracts are “fully enforceable . . . unless certain other factors are present
which under established legal rules – legislative or judicial – operate to
render it otherwise.”  (Graham v.
Scissor-Tail, Inc. (1981) 28 Cal.3d 807, 819; E.E.O.C. v. Luce, Forward,
Hamilton & Scripps (9th Cir. 2003) 345 F.3d 742, 749 (employers may
require employees to agree to binding arbitration of disputes as a condition of
employment); Craig v. Brown & Root (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 416, 421
(no procedural unconscionability found where plaintiff was told to review the
company’s employee handbook and to acknowledge that he was bound by the
policies contained within the handbook, which contained the arbitration policy).)  
 Finally, Plaintiff
argues there is no admissible evidence of an arbitration agreement.  For this argument, Plaintiff relies on
objections to the Declaration of Rick Spade. 
The court considered her objections and overruled them.  There exists a valid arbitration agreement.  Further, there is no dispute the arbitration
agreement is governed by the Federal Arbitration Act.[2]
B.    
Enforceability
“California
law strongly favors arbitration.  Through
the comprehensive provisions of the California Arbitration Act (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1280 et seq.), the Legislature has expressed a ‘strong public policy
in favor of arbitration as a speedy and relatively inexpensive means of dispute
resolution.  As with the FAA (9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq.), California law
establishes a presumption in favor of arbitrability.  An agreement to
submit disputes to arbitration “is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save
upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.” (OTO, L.L.C.
v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 125.)  
  
 Arbitration
agreements may be declared unenforceable “upon such grounds as exist at law or
in equity for the revocation of any contract.  This saving clause permits
agreements to arbitrate to be invalidated by ‘generally applicable contract defenses,
such as fraud, duress, or unconscionability,’ but not by defenses that apply
only to arbitration or that derive their meaning from the fact that an
agreement to arbitrate is at issue.”  (AT&T Mobility LLC v.
Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.) 
Plaintiff raises two arguments against the enforceability
of the arbitration provision: (1) the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual
Assault and Sexual Harassment Act (the “Act”) prohibits enforcement of the
arbitration agreement, and (2) the agreement is unconscionable.
1.      The Act
“In March
2022, President Joseph R. Biden signed the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual
Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021 (the Act) (9 U.S.C. §§ 401, 402),
representing the first major amendment of the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) (9
U.S.C. § 1 et seq.) since its inception nearly 100 years ago.”  (Murrey v. Superior Court (2023)  87 Cal.App.5th 1223, 1230.)  “Section 402, subdivision (a), of the [EFAA]
describes its applicability, stating that effective immediately, predispute
arbitration agreements and joint-action waivers in the context of sexual
assault or harassment were no longer valid or enforceable.”  (Id. at p. 1234.)  “[A]t the election of the person alleging
conduct constituting a sexual harassment dispute or sexual assault dispute, or
the named representative of a class or in a collective action alleging such
conduct, no predispute arbitration agreement or predispute joint-action waiver
shall be valid or enforceable with respect to a case which is filed under
Federal, Tribal, or State law and relates to the sexual assault dispute or the
sexual harassment dispute. (9 U.S.C. § 402, subd. (a).)”  (Id. at pp. 1234-35.)
The parties disagree over whether the
Act applies to Plaintiff’s claims.  As
framed by Plaintiff in her opposition, “Plaintiff’s sexual harassment claims
accrued on or about May, 2022. Plaintiff never voluntarily agreed to arbitrate
on the issue of sexual assault or sexual harassment. Therefore, the [Act]
serves to bar Defendants’ attempt for arbitration and their motion must be
denied.”  (Opp., p. 5.)  The Complaint alleges, “In addition to
Defendants’ misconduct related to her tenancy, throughout her employ Plaintiff
was subjected to Defendant EMPLOYER’s and MANAGERS’ discriminatory, harassing
and retaliatory conduct including sexual harassment, based upon her sex,
gender, age, medical conditions, disability, perceived disability and
association with others.”  (Complaint, ¶
7.)  Paragraph 17 states: “Defendants
terminated Plaintiff’s employ and then continued to discriminate, harass and
retaliate against her as a tenant, based upon her sex, gender, age, medical
conditions, disability, perceived disability and association with others.”  The Complaint alleges Defendants sexual
harassment of Plaintiff during her time as an employee as well as her time as a
tenant. 
Defendants argue these allegations are
conclusory.  Defendants further argue that
Plaintiff has not asserted a sexual harassment cause of action.  However, Defendants do not provide any
authority for the proposition the court may disregard an allegation of sexual
harassment, even if it is conclusory, to avoid application of the Act.[3]  
            The
court directed Plaintiff to submit a declaration and/or other documentary
evidence detailing the factual basis for her sexual harassment claims.  Defendants were given leave to submit
evidence countering Plaintiff’s claims.
In her supplemental declaration,
Plaintiff states the following:
I was also sexually harassed by male co-workers and
managers at work. [¶] My male Regional Manager told me that I was being “too
sensitive” when I asked him for help in dealing with the sexism, sexual
harassment, assault and hostile conduct of my neighbor. I do not believe that
he treated male co-workers in the same manner. [¶] Defendants’ Maintenance
Supervisor created a sexist and hostile work environment when he treated me and
the other women on staff with disrespect and condescension in which he made it
clear that as “the man” he “did not have to explain himself” to us women, when
we asked basic business questions and for information we needed to perform our
jobs. He would intentionally ignore me and female staff, not the males, making
it difficult to do my job. He would only talk to the male employees on staff,
both maintenance and management. He also refused to fill out incident reports I
needed, leaving the work to the female office staff. I witnessed numerous
incidents of his sexual/gender based harassment, where he would give the least
desirable work to women, such as always asking the female janitorial staff to
pick up after him, and not the male staff . When I tried to discuss business
matters with him he would treat me with rudeness and disrespect which he did
not display to male employees.  (Pasquini
Supp. Decl., ¶¶ 15-17.)  
I complained about his sexual harassment to Defendants.
When my managers refused to assist me, I had to confront the male Maintenance
Supervisor myself, and told him I would not permit him to mistreat me any
longer. He then began to overtly physically sexually harass me, he started
asking me out daily, pressuring me to interact with him as a sexual conquest,
telling me that he wanted “to go drinking with me,” and asking me to meet him
at a bar. This behavior was intended to harass and humiliate me, and did cause
me to feel sexually harassed, humiliated and distressed and created a hostile
work environment.  (Pasquini Supp. Decl.,
¶ 18.)  
            Plaintiff
goes on to detail other factual bases for her sexual harassment claims and
how  they are connected to her various causes
of action.  (See Pasquini Supp. Decl., ¶¶
19-44.)  
            In
response, Defendants offer the Declaration of Robin Sidenstecker.  Defendant Sidenstecker disputes some, but not
all of Plaintiff’s statements.  (See
Sidenstecker Supp. Decl., ¶¶ 4-8.)  Ms.
Sidenstecker’s declaration is conclusory and lacking in responsive factual
detail. 
            Based on
the foregoing, the court finds there is a sufficient factual basis supporting
Plaintiff’s sexual harassment claims.  The Act applies. The court proceeds to decide
whether any of Plaintiff’s causes of action may be compelled to
arbitration.  For the reasons that
follow, the court concludes the Act prevents arbitration of Plaintiff’s entire
case.
2.      Interpretation of the Act
As stated above, the Act invalidates predispute
arbitration agreements “with respect to a case which is filed
under Federal, Tribal, or State law and relates to the sexual
assault dispute or the sexual harassment dispute.  (9 U.S.C. § 402, subd.
(a), emphasis added.)  The fight pivots to the interpretation of “case” as
used in the Act.  There are two views.2  The majority of
district courts have concluded the Act precludes arbitration of the whole case,
so long as the complaint states a sexual harassment/assault claim. (Williams
v. Mastronardi Produce, LTD., d/b/a Sunset Foods (E.D. Mich. Aug. 22, 2024,
No. 23-13302, 2024) 2024 WL 3908718, at *6-7.)  This is the stance taken
in Johnson v. Everyrealm, Inc. (S.D. N.Y. 2023) 657 F.Supp.3d 535 (Johnson).   
Only one district court has reached the opposite
conclusion.  In Mera v. SA Hospitality Group, LLC (S.D. N.Y. 2023)
657 F.Supp.3d 442 (Mera), the district court enforced the arbitration
agreement with respect to those causes of action or claims that were wholly
unrelated to sexual harassment or sexual assault.  The “wholly unrelated”
claims in Mera were representative (i.e., non-personal) wage and hour
claims.  Unsurprisingly, Plaintiff advocates for Johnson;
Defendants advance the approach taken in Turner v. Tesla, Inc. (N.D.
Cal. 2023) 686 F.Supp.3d 917, 926 (Turner), which applied the Johnson
and Mera approaches and found the arbitration agreement to be
unenforceable with respect to the plaintiff’s entire case because each cause of
action related to the sexual harassment dispute there.
The court finds that the approach in Johnson is
more persuasive.  As noted by the court in Baldwin v. TMPL Lexington
LLC, et al. (S.D.N.Y., Aug. 19, 2024, No. 23 CIV. 9899) 2024 WL 3862150, at
*7, the Johnson court relied on dictionary definitions, statutory
context, and case law to determine “that the term ‘case’ unambiguously referred
to a legal proceeding as an undivided whole, and did not differentiate among
the causes of action within it.”  As Johnson explains, “the whole
case” approach accords with the stated purpose of the Act: to empower claims by
sexual harassment and/or assault victims that had been inhibited by
proliferating arbitration clauses in employment agreements. Such often
effectively left “victims of sexual violence and harassment ... unable to seek
justice in a court of law, enforce their rights under state and federal legal
protections, or even simply share their experience.” (H.R. Rep. 117-234, at p.
3¿(2022);¿Johnson, 657 F.Supp.3d at p. 561, fn. 22.)  Compelling
Plaintiff to arbitrate claims unrelated to the sexual harassment3
and staying the action pending arbitration of those claims4 would
nullify that purpose.   
Mera is also distinguishable from this case.  Unlike Mera,
Plaintiff does not assert claims on behalf of a class.  Each of
Plaintiff’s twelve causes of action are personal to her and arise from her employment
related experiences.  
Turner is likewise unhelpful to Defendants. 
There, the district court denied the motion to compel arbitration
of the entire case based partly on the ground that “Turner's workplace injury
and wage claims relate only to her own experience and employment at Tesla”.  Like Turner, Plaintiff’s claims relate
to her own experience and employment with Defendants.  Neither Mera nor Turner compel
a different result.   
Having adopted Johnson’s view of the statute, the court
finds Plaintiff’s sexual harassment dispute triggers application of the Act to
her entire case.  The motion to compel
arbitration is therefore DENIED.  The
court need not and does not address Plaintiff’s unconscionability arguments.
V.        CONCLUSION
 
            The motion
to compel arbitration is Denied.
 
            Defendants
are ordered to serve and file their answer to the Complaint within 20 days of
this order.
 
            Plaintiff
to give notice.
 
Dated:   September 10,
2024                          




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
            
 


