  Case Number:  21STCV23784    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      September 10, 2024                                   TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                                GH Palmer, Inc., et al. v. Aquatherm, L.P., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV23784
 





















 
VERIFIED
APPLICATION TO APPEAR AS COUNSEL HAC VICE OF SHARLEI HSU



 
MOVING PARTY:               Applicant
Sharlei Hsu
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION

 
On August 15, 2024, Applicant Sharlei Hsu filed this verified
application to appear pro hac vice in this action on behalf of Defendants Aquatherm
L.P., Aetna NA, L.C., and Aquatherm GmbH. 
 
The application is unopposed. 
 
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
 
            California
Rules of Court, rule 9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in another
jurisdiction may apply to appear as counsel pro hac vice in the State of
California by filing a verified application together with proof of service by
mail of a copy of the application and notice of hearing on all parties who have
appeared in the case and on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco
office, with payment of a $50.00 fee, so long as that attorney is not a
resident of the State of California, and is not regularly engaged in
substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State of
California.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40.)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
The application must state: (1) the applicant’s residence
and office addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been admitted
to practice and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member of
good standing in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently
suspended or disbarred in any court; (5) the title of each court and cause in
which the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice
in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each application, and
whether or not it was granted; and (6) the name, address, and telephone number
of the active member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record
in the local action.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).)¿¿ 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
Sharlei Hsu seeks a court order allowing her to appear as
counsel pro hac vice to represent Defendants in this action.¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Upon review, the Court finds the application complies with
California Rules of Court, rule 9.40.¿¿¿ 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            Accordingly,
the unopposed application is GRANTED.¿ It is ordered that Sharlei Hsu be
admitted to appear as counsel pro hac vice for the purpose of
representing Defendants Aquatherm L.P., Aetna NA, L.C., and Aquatherm GmbH in
this action.¿ Applicant shall be subject to all applicable rules of this
Court.¿ 
¿ 
Moving party to give notice.¿¿ 
 
 
Dated:   September 10,
2024                                   




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the
  Superior Court


 




 