 Case Number:  23STCV30704    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
10, 2024                           TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Gloria Balderrama v. Optum Care, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV30704
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Diana McIntyre
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Gloria
Balderrama
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is a Fair
Employment and Housing Act (FEHA) action. 
Plaintiff Gloria Balderrama (Balderrama or Plaintiff) was hired by Optum
Care, Inc. (Optum) in 2008 as a supervisor in the Utilization Management
Department.  One of Balderrama’s
managers/supervisors was Diana McIntyre (McIntyre).  In June or July 2022, Balderrama was a
witness in an investigation conducted by Optum’s HR department after another
employee complained she was being discriminated against by McIntyre.  After the investigation, McIntyre began
treating   Balderrama differently, including giving her more
work than other employees with unreasonably short deadlines, as well as
prohibiting Balderrama from receiving support on her assignments from
co-workers. As a result, Balderrama developed extreme symptoms of anxiety and
PTSD and began receiving medical treatment in September 2022.  Balderrama complained about McIntyre’s
conduct.  In September 2022, Plaintiff
took a leave of absence due to her anxiety and mental health issues.  Balderrama conveyed her request for a leave of
absence to Optum.  
 
            In January
20203, Balderrama returned to work.  After
she returned, McIntyre’s misconduct continued. 
Plaintiff complained to Optum’s HR department.  In response, Balderrama received an
auto-generated email.  
 
            Around this
time, McIntyre gave Balderrama a negative performance review.  In March 2023, Balderrama appealed the
performance review and concurrently complained to the Department of Labor that she
was being retaliated against for taking CFRA/FMLA medical leave, and was
misclassified by Optum.
 
            In April
2023, Balderrama complained to McIntyre about the discrimination, retaliation,
and hostile work environment.  The
concerns were repeated to Optum’s HR department and other management.  Days later, McIntyre terminated Balderrama’s
employment.  
 
            Balderrama argues
the decision to terminate her employment was substantially motivated by her
actual or perceived disability and her requests for accommodations, including
the medical leave, as well as her continued complaints to Optum and the
Department of Labor. Balderrama filed a complaint with the Civil Rights
Department (CRD).
 
            Procedural
Background
 
On December 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Complaint against
Optum and McIntyre (collectively, Defendants) for (1) FEHA Discrimination
(Disability); (2) FEHA Failure to Accommodate Disability, (3) FEHA Failure to
Engage in the Interactive Process, (4) FEHA Retaliation, (5) Violation of the
California Family Rights Act (CFRA), (6) Retaliation in Violation of the California
Family Rights Act (CFRA), (7) FEHA Failure to Take All Reasonable Steps to
Prevent Discrimination or Retaliation, (8) Violation of Labor Code § 1102.5;
(9) Violation of Labor Code § 232.5, and (10) Wrongful Termination in Violation
of Public Policy.  
 
Only the eighth cause of action is alleged against McIntyre.
 
            On April 25,
2024, McIntyre (hereafter, Defendant) filed this demurrer to the Eighth Cause
of Action in the Complaint.
 
            Plaintiff
filed an opposition.  Defendant replied.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
            A demurrer
for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)¿ When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged
facts as true.¿ (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)¿ “Because a demurrer challenges defects on the face of
the complaint, it can only refer to matters outside the pleading that are
subject to judicial notice.”¿ (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health
Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.)¿ 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
A.    Judicial Notice
 
Defendant requests
judicial notice of eight (8) superior court rulings on violations of Labor Code
section 1102.5.  Because the court does
not rely on the matters for which Defendant seeks judicial notice, the court
declines to rule on the request.
 
B.    
Analysis
 
The sole issue to
be decided is whether Plaintiff may bring a cause of action for violation of
Labor Code section 1102.5 (retaliation against whistleblower) against an
individual.  No California Appellate Court
has ruled on this issue yet.  
 
Defendant McIntyre
argues she is not liable under Labor Code section 1102.5 because she was
Plaintiff's supervisor, and not her employer. 
In support, Defendant cites a federal district court case, Tillery v.
Lollis, (E.D. Cal. Aug. 13, 2015) 2015 WL 4873111 (Tillery). 
In Tillery, the district court was faced with a Federal Rule 12(b)(6)
motion to dismiss in which individual non-employer defendants argued that the
plaintiff’s whistleblower retaliation claim was invalid under the newly amended
Labor Code Section 1102.5.  The district court first noted that California
courts have not addressed the issue of whether individual non-employers may be
liable under the whistleblower statute in light of the Labor Code’s 2014
amendment.  However, relying on California Supreme Court cases Reno v.
Baird (1998) 18 Cal.4th 640 (Reno) and Jones v. Lodge at
Torrey Pines Partnership (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1158 (Jones), the
district court reached the conclusion that individual non-employers cannot be
liable for whistleblower retaliation under Labor Code section 1102.5. (Tillery,
at pp.* 9-10.)  
 
In Reno,
the California Supreme Court found that liability does not extend to individual
non-employers for discrimination under the FEHA although the statute defines
“employer” to include “any person acting as an agent of an employer. . .
.”  (Reno, supra, 18 Cal.4th at p. 645.)  The Reno
court reached this conclusion by making a distinction between harassment (in
which supervisory employees may be held personally liable under the FEHA) and
discrimination (in which supervisory employees may not be held personally
liable under the FEHA).  As “actions such as hiring and firing, job or
project assignments, office or work station assignments, promotion or demotion,
performance evaluations, the provision of support, the assignment or
nonassignment of supervisory functions, deciding who will and who will not
attend meetings, deciding who will be laid off,” are “necessary personnel
management actions,” it would place every supervisory employee “at risk of
personal liability whenever he or she makes a personnel decision which could
later be considered discriminatory.”  (Id. at pp. 646-47.)  In
contrast, “[n]o supervisory employee needs to use slurs or derogatory drawings,
to physically interfere with freedom of movement, to engage in unwanted sexual
advances, etc. in order to carry out the legitimate objectives of personnel
management.”  (Id. at p. 646.)  
 
In Jones,
the California Supreme Court analyzed Government Code section 12940(h), which
forbids retaliation by making it unlawful for “any employer . . . or person to
discharge, expel, or otherwise discriminate against any person because the
person has opposed any practices forbidden under this part. . . .”  Similar
to the Reno Court, the Jones Court similarly rejected the
argument that the use of the word “person” imposes liability for retaliation
upon “all persons who engage in prohibited retaliation” and not just the
employer.  (Id. at p. 1162.)  The Court reasoned that the
Legislature included “clear language” in Government Code section 12940(j)(3)
“imposing personal liability on all employees for their own harassing actions,”
which reads: “An employee of an entity . . . is personally liable for any
harassment prohibited by this section that is perpetrated by the employee. . .
.”  (Id.)   
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff argue Defendant’s citation to the federal district court case is
non-binding, and that the two California cases involve different statutory sections
and frameworks than the whistleblower retaliation statute at hand.  The
court agrees with Plaintiff’s points, but finds the reasoning in Tillery
persuasive.  The whistleblower statute here makes it unlawful for “[a]n
employer, or any person acting on behalf of the employer,” from retaliating
against an employee by subjecting the employee to adverse employment action
upon the employee engaging in protected activity.  (Lab. Code, § 1102.5,
subd. (b).)  The Reno Court, facing a similar issue in the context
of the FEHA discrimination statute, held that while the FEHA statute defines
“employer” to include “any person acting as an agent of an employer,” liability
does not extend to individual non-employers.  (Reno, supra,
18 Cal.4th at p. 645.)  Reading this statute similarly is
appropriate.  Absent authority to the
contrary, the court sides with Defendant on this issue.[1]  
 
IV.        CONCLUSION
            
Defendant Diana McIntyre’s Demurrer to the Eighth Cause of
Action is SUSTAINED.  Because amendment
would be futile, leave to amend is DENIED.
 
Defendant to give notice. 

 
 
 
Dated:   September 10,
2024                                   




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            
 


