  Case Number:  23STCV00347    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2023    Dept:  74 Vancity
Trade, LLC v. Dongjie Lin, et al.
(1) Plaintiff Vancity Trade, LLC’s
Motion to Compel Defendant Dongjie Lin’s Responses to Special Interrogatories 
 
(2) Plaintiff Vancity Trade, LLC’s
Motion to Compel Defendant Dongjie Lin’s Responses to Requests for Production
of Documents
 
(3) Plaintiff Vancity Trade, LLC’s
Motion to Deem Admitted Requests for Admission
 
The
court considered the moving papers. No opposition was timely filed.
TENTATIVE RULING
            Given Defendant’s failure to respond
to any of the discovery at issue, the court grants these motions. In addition,
sanctions are warranted.
BACKGROUND 
            This
action arises from a contractual dispute.
            On
January 6, 2023, Plaintiff Vancity Trade, LLC (Plaintiff) filed a complaint
against Defendant Dongjie Lin (Defendant) and J-Max Transportation Group. The
complaint alleges common counts, breach of contract, and fraud.
            On
June 19, 2023, Plaintiff propounded special interrogatories, requests for
production (RFPs), and requests for admission (RFAs) on Defendant.
            Defendant
never responded to the discovery.
            On
August 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed these motions to compel Defendant’s responses
to the special interrogatories and RFPs, as well as deem matters admitted in
the RFAs. Plaintiff also seeks sanctions.
DISCUSSION
            Motions
to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories and RFPs.
¿¿            If
a party to whom interrogatories or an inspection demand were directed fails to
serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses without objections. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (b),
2031.300, subd. (b).) Moreover, failure to timely serve responses waives
objections to the requests. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300,
subd. (a).) Failure to verify a response is equivalent to no response at all. (Appleton
v. Superior Court (1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 632, 636.)  
            If
the court finds that a party has unsuccessfully made or opposed such a motion,
the court “shall impose a monetary sanction . . . unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.300, subd. (c).)¿
            Since
Defendant has not provided timely, code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s
special interrogatories and RFPs, the court grants these motions.
            Motion
to Deem Admitted Request for Admission
            If a party to whom requests for
admission are directed fails to serve a timely response, the requesting party
may move for an order that the truth of any matters specified in the requests
be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (b).) Further, the Court¿shall¿make this order, “unless it
finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has
served, before the hearing¿on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) ¿
            While tardy responses may defeat the motion, they will not
avoid monetary sanctions. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2033.280, subd. (c) [“It is mandatory that the court impose a
monetary sanction [Citation] on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure
to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this
motion.”].) 
            The court
grants this motion as well because Defendant has not provided timely,
code-compliant responses to the RFAs. 

            Sanctions
            Given Defendant’s failure to respond
to the special interrogatories, RFPs, and RFAs, the court finds that sanctions
are warranted. Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate is reasonable and he has
substantiated his request with an hourly breakdown of work performed. (Look
Decl., ¶ 8.) However, the court will not award Plaintiff’s counsel for
duplicate work. And since Defendant’s counsel has failed to file a timely
opposition for review, the court will adjust the award accordingly ($2,311.65 = $450 x (4 hours (motion) + 1 hour
(preparation for and attendance at hearing) + $61.65 (filing fees).)
CONCLUSION 
Based
on the foregoing, the court grants Plaintiff’s motions to compel Defendant’s
responses to the special interrogatories and RFPs. The court orders Defendant
to serve without objection code-compliant responses to the special
interrogatories and RFPs within 10 days. The court grants Plaintiff’s motion to
deem matters admitted in the RFAs. Defendant shall pay Plaintiff attorney fees
in the sum of $2,311.65 by November 9, 2023.
Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice.