 Case Number:  23CHCV03011    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  F51 
NOVEMBER 8,
2024
 

MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE
ORDER
(Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One)

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV03011

 
Motion
filed: 6/25/24
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant
Ford Motor Company (“Defendant”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs
Michel Lopez; and Jorge Chavez (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: A
protective order, as proposed, applicable to Defendant’s documents produced in
response to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents (“RFPs”), Set One.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is granted in part. The Court enters the proposed protective order without
Defendant’s modifications:
(1)  
Requiring
non-lawyer personnel to sign and execute Exhibit A to the protective order;
(2)  
Removing
Paragraph 7f. regarding mock jury participants from the protective order; and
(3)  
All
modifications to Paragraph 21 of the protective order.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On 7/8/20, Plaintiffs allegedly purchased a vehicle
manufactured by Defendant, and now bring this action under the Song-Beverly
Consumer Warranty Act (Civil Code § 1790 et seq.), alleging that defects and
nonconformities manifested themselves during the warranty period. (Compl. ¶¶
9–10.)
 
On 10/6/23, Plaintiffs filed their complaint, alleging
against Defendants the following causes of action: (1) Violation of
Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty; (2) Violation of Song-Beverly
Act – Breach of Implied Warranty; (3) Violation of Song-Beverly Act section
1793.2; (4) Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment; and (5) Negligent Repair. On
9/11/24, Plaintiffs dismissed their fourth cause of action from their
complaint.
 
On 6/25/24, Defendant filed the instant motion for a
protective order. On 10/29/24, Plaintiffs filed their opposition. On 11/4/24,
Defendant filed its reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
When document requests have been
propounded, the responding party may promptly move for a protective order.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.060,
subd. (a).) “The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that
justice requires to protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or
organization from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue
burden and expense.” (Id. at
subd. (b).)
 
Here, Defendant “seeks the entry of a Protective
Order to protect Ford’s confidential, proprietary and trade secret information
and materials, which are the subject of certain discovery requests in this
case. Plaintiffs … do not dispute the need for a protective order; they only
disagree over the form of the protective order that should be entered for use
in this case.” (Def.’s Mot. 4:3–7.)
 
A.   
Meet and Confer 
 
A motion for protective order must
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration stating, “facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2031.060, subd. (a); 2016.040.)
 
Here, Defendant’s counsel declares
that on 1/10/22, the law firms for the parties began their meet and confer
efforts regarding a proposed protective order. (Decl. of Jake Moawad ¶ 3.) The parties
continued their discussions but were unable to come to a resolution. (Id.
at ¶¶ 3–6.) Accordingly,
the Court finds that counsel has satisfied the meet and confer requirements of
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.090.
 
B.    
Timeliness
 
As a preliminary matter,
Plaintiffs argue that Defendant’s motion should be denied because Defendant “failed
to promptly move for a protective order.” (Pls.’ Opp. 3:8, citing Code Civ.
Proc. § 2031.060, subd. (a).) Plaintiff argues that Defendant “unilaterally
conditioned production of responsive documents on the entry of a protective
order yet delayed in filing any motion.” (Id. at 3:11–12.)
 
In reply, Defendant observes
that Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.060 “is not a mandate that a
party ‘must’ or ‘shall’ move for protective order,” but that it may promptly
do so. (Def.’s Reply 3:13–14.) The Court agrees. Defendant
further notes that “‘the promptness of the request [for protective order] turns
on the facts.’” (Id. at 3:15, quoting Nativi v. Deutsche Bank
National Trust Co. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 261, 317.) As Defendant observes,
“here, Ford attempted to negotiate in good faith with Plaintiff’s counsel in an
effort to reach agreement on a protective order.” (Id. at 3:17–18.)
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that the instant motion is not
untimely.
//
//
//
//
C.    Defendant’s Proposed Modifications
 
Defendant’s proposed
protective order makes the following modifications to the Los Angeles Superior
Court Model Protective Order:
 
·        
“Paragraph 7:
Ford’s revisions clarify sub-section (b), confirming that the term
“affiliated attorneys” mean attorneys in the same firm. Ford’s revision also
provides that Plaintiffs’ counsel’s office personnel who have access to Ford’s
confidential documents must sign Exhibit A. Ford proposes a revision to
sub-section (d) to include videographers and litigation support companies
(along with court reporters), who may have access to Ford’s confidential
documents by virtue of their retention in a case. Ford removed sub-section (f),
which permitted mock jurors to access Ford’s confidential documents because
Ford has no ability to identify such persons or ensure (or confirm) their
compliance. Ford also revised sub-section (g) to include non-attorneys with
experts, and to provide that Ford’s confidential documents may not be shown to
competitors of Ford;
·        
Paragraph 8: Ford’s revisions
provide that the receiving party may not post Ford’s confidential documents to
any website or advertise Ford’s documents for sale. These provisions are
reasonable and necessary to protect Ford’s documents from improper
dissemination; and
·        
Paragraph 21: Ford’s revisions
clarify the process for Plaintiffs’ counsel to return or destroy Ford’s
confidential documents at the conclusion of the case and require that all of
Ford’s confidential documents be returned or destroyed when the case is over.” (Def.’s
Mot. 7:1–19 [emphasis in original].)
 
Plaintiffs
argue that the instant motion is unnecessary because “previously, Ford proposed
and agreed to the model protective order in another case that was litigated
between Plaintiffs’ counsel and Ford.” (Pls.’ Opp. 4:3–4.) Plaintiffs argue
that therefore, “Ford does not provide good cause showing that the lack of
additional modifications would cause any harm or prejudice to Ford.” (Id. at
4:12–13.)
 
However, as
Defendant observes, “Plaintiffs’ claim that Ford previously agreed to the model
protective order ‘in another case,’ in November of 2021, is immaterial.” (Def.’s
Reply 3:7–8.) The Court agrees with Defendant that “whether Ford entered into a
protective order in another case is governed by the facts of that particular
case,” and is therefore not relevant to the Court’s below analysis of the
instant motion. (Id. at 3:10–11.)
 
1.     
Paragraph 7
 
a.      
Affiliated
Attorneys
 
“Ford’s revisions clarify sub-section (b) [of Paragraph 7],
confirming that the term ‘affiliated attorneys’ mean attorneys in the same
firm.” (Def.’s Mot. 7:1–2.) Plaintiffs argue in opposition that “this
limitation could conceivably prevent Plaintiff’s counsel from disclosing the
documents to any other attorneys that serve as Plaintiff’s co-counsel” or
outside trial counsel. (Pl.’s Opp. 5:3–5.) “Plaintiff’s co-counsel—whether in
the same firm or not—should be permitted to use the documents subject to the
terms of the LASC model protective order.” (Id. at 5:14–16.)
 
Defendant
argues on reply that Plaintiffs’ concerns are moot because “any co-counsel
is—by definition—counsel of record. If the attorneys are of record, then they
are bound by the protective order as revised by Ford.” (Def.’s Reply 4:2–4.)
Defendant further argues that the subject modification is necessary because “without
further clarification, Ford’s documents could be shared with multiple attorneys
who have no responsibility to protect Ford’s documents.” (Id. at 5:10–12.)
 
The Court
agrees with Defendant and finds that the additional language does not prohibit
the dissemination of the protected documents from Plaintiffs’ co-counsel or
trial counsel, as they are considered “attorneys of record” within the scope of
the protective order.
 
b.     
Office Personnel
 
“Ford’s revision [to Paragraph 7] also provides that Plaintiff’s
counsel’s office personnel who have access to Ford’s confidential documents
must sign Exhibit A.” (Def.’s Mot. 7:2–4.) The form attached as Exhibit
A to the proposed protective order appears to be an acknowledgment and
confidentiality agreement. (Ex. F to Moawad Decl., Ex. A.)
 
Plaintiffs
argue that “because the confidential documents would be stored within the
individual case file and all litigation employees have access to cases [sic]
files,” requiring each of the firm’s employees to sign the acknowledgment form
would result in a burdensome “logistical nightmare.” (Pls.’ Opp. 5:24–6:1.)
Plaintiff further argues that “the protective order already provides that Plaintiff’s
counsel and the firm, as a whole, agree to be bound by the protective order.
Ford gains no additional protection by then requiring all attorneys to sign the
Exhibit A form.” (Id. at 6:11–13.)
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiffs and finds that the burden
of requiring every employee at Plaintiffs’ counsel’s law firm to sign the
acknowledgment form is overly burdensome, particularly where the protective
order already applies to “paralegals, clerical and secretarial staff
employed by such attorneys who are actively involved in the Proceedings and are
not employees of any Party.” (Ex. F to Moawad Decl.)
Accordingly, the Court strikes the following language
from Paragraph 7b. of the proposed protective order: “and required to
execute Exhibit A agreeing to be bound by the terms of this protective order
prior to disclosure.” (Ibid.)
 
c.      
Mock Jurors
 
Defendant “removed mock jury participants from this list
because Ford has no ability to confirm the identity of such persons or to track
or trace their access if Ford’s documents were to become public because of
disclosure in this case.” (Def.’s Mot. 9:17–20.)
 
Plaintiffs argue in opposition that “the modifications
would cause undue burden on Plaintiffs’ ability to prepare for trial if they
wished to use mock jury participants.” (Pls.’ Opp. 7:14–16.) “The LASC model
protective order requires that mock jury participants sign the Exhibit A
attachment, which requires them to provide their address and telephone number.
So it is unclear how Ford would be unable to identify these people if
confidential materials were disclosed to them.” (Id. at 7:1–3.) 
 
Defendant argues in reply that mock jurors should be
prohibited from accessing the subject documents because “Ford has no way to
confirm the accuracy of their contact information if a problem arises.” (Def.’s
Reply 5:8–9.) The Court finds this argument immaterial and agrees with
Plaintiffs that restricting mock jury participants from accessing the
confidential documents would improperly burden Plaintiffs’ ability to prepare their
case for trial. Accordingly, the Court reincorporates the following language
Defendant removed from Paragraph 7 of the proposed protective order: “f.
mock jury participants, provided, however, that prior to the Disclosure of
Confidential Materials to any such mock jury participant, counsel for the Party
making the Disclosure shall deliver a copy of this Stipulation and Protective
Order to such person, shall explain that such person is bound to follow the
terms of such Order, and shall secure the signature of such person on a
statement in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A.” (Ex. F to Moawad Decl.)
 
2.     
Paragraph 8
 
Paragraph 8 of the original protective order states the
following: “Confidential Materials shall be used by the persons
receiving them only for the purposes of preparing for, conducting,
participating in the conduct of, and/or prosecuting and/or defending the
Proceeding, and not for any business or other purpose whatsoever.” (Id.
at ¶ 8 [emphasis added].) Defendant added language to this paragraph
prohibiting the dissemination of the protected documents on any website, or by
sale. (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiffs
argue that the proposed language is unnecessary because “the LASC model
protective order already provides that” the confidential materials shall not be
used “for any business or other purpose whatsoever.” (Pls.’ Opp. 7:24–27,
citing Ex. F to Moawad Decl., ¶ 8.) Defendant argues in reply that “Paragraph 8
does not address the posting of or sale of Ford confidential documents. This
revision will protect Ford’s confidential documents from being sold or posted
by Plaintiff and their counsel. This is a necessary and reasonable provision.”
(Def.’s Reply 5:23–26.)
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendant’s added language does “not
inhibit Plaintiffs’ ability to litigate this matter in any way because it
continues to allow for disclosure to counsel for use in this case, and Ford’s
proposals are necessary given Ford’s interest in protecting its confidential
business and trade-secret information from unfettered disclosure.” (Def.’s Mot.
7:20–23.)
//
//
//
//
3.     
Paragraph 21
 
Defendant’s modifications to
Paragraph 21 of the proposed protective order “require that all of
Ford’s confidential documents be returned or destroyed when the case is over.”
(Id. at 7:17–19.) Plaintiffs oppose this modification, arguing that “Plaintiff’s
counsel should be entitled to a complete copy of the case file. Because these
documents would still be subject to the protective order, Ford cannot
articulate any benefit that it obtains through this modification.” (Pls.’ Opp. 8:8–10.)
Defendant argues in reply that “without this provision, Plaintiffs’ counsel can
keep Ford’s confidential documents in perpetuity, which affords Ford no ability
to track their location and use over time.” (Def.’s Reply 6:6–7.)
 
The Court finds that the language in the original
Model Protective Order sufficiently provides for a procedure to return or
destroy the confidential materials following the conclusion of the litigation.
Any remaining documents may, upon, written request, be returned or destroyed,
with the exception “that counsel for each Party may maintain in its files, in
continuing compliance with the terms of this Stipulation and Protective Order,
all work product, and one copy of each pleading filed with the Court.” (Ex. F
to Moawad Decl., ¶ 21.) Because any remaining work product or pleading is still
subject to the terms of the protective order, the Court finds that Defendant’s
interests in its confidential materials are sufficiently protected.
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court strikes Defendant’s
proposed modifications to Paragraph 21 of the protective order.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is granted in part. The Court enters the proposed
protective order without Defendant’s modifications:
(1)  
Requiring
non-lawyer personnel to sign and execute Exhibit A to the protective order;
(2)  
Removing
Paragraph 7f. regarding mock jury participants from the protective order; and
(3)  
All
modifications to Paragraph 21 of the protective order.