  Case Number:  22STCV19075    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  61 Plaintiff
Sohel Sedghat’s Motion for Terminating, Issue, and Evidentiary Sanctions is
DENIED. Defendant City of Los Angeles is directed to provide further responses to
Requests for Production, Set One, Requests No. 3 and 6, specifically
identifying the disposition of the documents sought under Code of Civil
Procedure § 2031.230. No sanctions are awarded.
 
Defendant to give notice.
 
I.               
MOTION
FOR TERMINATING SANCTIONS
The court may impose
terminating sanctions, include an order striking pleadings, and order
dismissing an action, or an order rendering judgment by default against a
party, for conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2023.030.) This conduct include “[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery,” and “[d]isobeying a court order to provide
discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.) 
Ultimate discovery
sanctions are justified where there is a willful discovery order violation, a
history of abuse, and evidence showing that less severe sanctions would not
produce compliance with discovery rules. 
(Van Sickle v. Gilbert (2011)
196 Cal.App.4th 1495, 1516.)  Dismissal
is a drastic measure, and terminating sanctions should only be ordered when
there has been previous noncompliance with a rule or order and it appears a
less severe sanction would not be effective. 
(Link v. Cater (1998) 60
Cal.App.4th 1315, 1326.)  “[A] penalty as
severe as dismissal or default is not authorized where noncompliance with
discovery is caused by an inability to comply rather than willfulness or bad
faith.”  (Brown v. Sup. Ct. (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 701, 707.)
Plaintiff Sohel
Sedghat (Plaintiff) moves to impose terminating, issue, and evidentiary
sanctions against Defendant City of Los Angeles (Defendant) based on purported
failures to comply with prior discovery orders of this court. Plaintiff
identifies the following instances of non-compliance:
 
·       After being ordered to provide further
responses to Requests for Production and Special Interrogatories on February 7,
2023, and further ordered to provide further responses to Requests No. 1, 3, 5,
and 6, and Special Interrogatory No. 6 on June 2, 2023, Plaintiff contends that
the responses to Requests No. 3 and 6, consisting of statements of inability to
comply, are insufficient. (Motion at p. 3.) Plaintiff also argues that the
response to Interrogatory No. 6, which responds to a query about the duration
of Plaintiff’s detention by reference to bodycam videos, is non-responsive.
(Motion at p. 4.)
·       Defendant was directed to provide further
responses to Special Interrogatories No. 11 and 12 in an order dated November
1, 2023. Special Interrogatory No. 11 asked Defendant to identify the true and
correct name of the witness known as Timothy Anderson, to which Defendant had
denied all knowledge without making sufficient description of its efforts to
obtain the information. Interrogatory No. 12 sought the basis for Defendant’s
denial that Plaintiff had been harmed, to which Defendant responded only with
objections. (See 11/1/23 Order.) Defendant has supplemented its response
to Interrogatory No. 11 stating that there was no arrest or further inquiry
into Anderson’s identity on the subject date, and that Defendant therefore
believed his proffered name was accurate. (Motion Exh. E.) Defendant’s further
response to Interrogatory No. 12 states that Defendant has no records or
information to support its contention in relation to Plaintiff’s harm, and that
discovery is ongoing. (Ibid.)
·       Plaintiff contends that Defendant has
provided evasive responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two, Nos. 2, 7, and
8, served upon Defendant on June 21, 2023. (Motion at p. 5; Exhs. F, G.)
However, Plaintiff’s motion as to these interrogatories was denied on November
1, 2023.
·       Plaintiff finally argues that Defendant
served an evasive statement of inability to comply on May 12, 2023, in response
to Requests for Production, Set Three, No. 3, which sought the production of
all instructions or memoranda of guidelines for officers about making incident
reports. (Motion at p. 5; Exhs. H, I.) 
 
Plaintiff is not
entitled to the sanctions sought. Plaintiff’s motion does not address a
persistent pattern of evasion that is not susceptible to lesser sanction, but
rather presents insufficiently specific supplemental responses to discovery
which were but a portion of discovery that was subject to prior orders to
compel. Of all the responses identified, only Requests No. 3 and 6 from
Requests for Production, Set One, warrant a further response. This is because
although nominally consisting of statements of inability to comply under Code
of Civil Procedure § 2031.230, Defendant does not “specify whether the
inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never
existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never
been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding
party,” but rather offers up all such options as potential reasons without
further elaboration. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.230.) Defendant may not simply
copy the statutory language in this manner, as the statute expressly requires
it to “specify whether” any of the ensuing conditions occurred. Defendant is
therefore ordered to provide a further response to Requests for Production, Set
One, No. 3 and 6.
 
No further sanction or response is required. Defendant has
made clear that it has no information in its possession that would cause it to
doubt the real name of the witness known as Timothy Anderson. It has further
provided reference to the document by which Plaintiff may ascertain the
duration of his detention in line with Code of Civil Procedure § 2030.230.
Defendant’s response that it lacks facts to support its denial of Plaintiff’s
harm is a straightforward concession in favor of Plaintiff’s case, not an
evasive response. Plaintiff’s request for relief has already been denied as to
Special Interrogatories, Set Two, No. 2, 7, and 8. And finally, any request for
a further response to Requests for Production, Set Three, served on May 12,
2023, has long been untimely under the 45-day deadline to bring a motion to
compel further. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (c). 
 
The motion for terminating sanctions is therefore DENIED.
Defendant is directed to provide a further response to Requests for Production,
Set One, Requests No. 3 and 6, specifically identifying the disposition of the
documents sought under Code of Civil Procedure § 2031.230. No sanctions are
awarded.
 