 Case Number:  23STCV12802    Hearing Date:   March 26, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant
Oakwood Construction and Restoration Services, Inc.’s Demurrer to the First
Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. Oakwood’s motion to strike
is denied as moot.
 
Defendant
Ed Carrasco’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with leave
to amend as to the third cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, and
SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the fifth and sixth causes of action for
UCL violations and conspiracy. Carrasco’s motion to strike is denied as moot.
 
Defendant
Allstate Insurance Company’s Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended
Complaint is GRANTED as to the prayer for punitive damages with leave to amend.
 
Defendant to give notice. 
 
I.               
DEMURRER
A demurrer should be sustained only where the defects appear
on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Pro., §§
430.30, et seq.) In particular, as is
relevant here, a court should sustain a demurrer if a complaint does not allege
facts that are legally sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (See
id. § 430.10, subd. (e).) As the Supreme Court held in Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311:
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but
not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. . . . Further, we
give the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and its
parts in their context.” (Id. at
p. 318; see also Hahn. v. Mirda
(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 [“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.
[Citation.]”) 
 
“In determining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer … if on consideration of all the facts stated it appears
the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of the court against the
defendants the complaint will be held good although the facts may not be
clearly stated.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
“A demurrer
for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some
respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly’s of Cal., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.) Such demurrers “are disfavored,
and are granted only if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant
cannot reasonably respond.” (Mahan v.
Charles W. Chan Insurance Agency, Inc. (2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848.)
 
A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if
the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any
theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by
amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 31 Cal.4th at p.
1081.) The demurrer also may be sustained without leave to amend where the
nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts to plead render it
probable plaintiff cannot state a cause of action. (Krawitz v. Rusch
(1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 957, 967.)
 
1.    
Oakwood Demurrer
 
Defendant Oakwood Construction and Restoration Services,
Inc. (Oakwood) demurrers to the First Amended Complaint (FAC) of Plaintiff Tom
Provost (Plaintiff). This court sustained Oakwood’s previous demurrer to the
fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action for intentional interference with
contract, Unfair Competition, and civil conspiracy, on the grounds that Oakwood
cannot be held liable for inducing a breach of contract through acts committed
as an agent for Defendant Allstate Insurance Company (Allstate), the other
party to the insurance contract. Additionally, Plaintiff’s unfair competition
claim was determined to be infirm because Plaintiff could not allege conduct in
violation of statute, conduct that was unfair, or conduct that was fraudulent
under the Unfair Competition Law (UCL). Oakwood’s present demurrer to
Plaintiff’s amended complaint raises the same arguments. 
 
Nonparties to an insurance
contract cannot be liable for either breach of that contract or for breach of
the covenant of good faith and fair dealing. (See Gruenberg v. Aetna Ins.
Co. (1973) 9 Cal.3d 566, 576.) “California courts have refused to extend
liability for bad faith, the predominant insurer tort, to agents and
employees of the insurer.” (Sanchez v. Lindsey Morden Claims Services, Inc.
(1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 249, 254–255.) By the same token, only a “stranger” to a
contract may be liable for intentionally interfering with that contract, and “a
defendant who is not a party to the contract or an agent of a party to the
contract is not immune from liability for intentional interference with
contract by virtue of having an economic or social interest in the contract.” (Caliber
Paving Company, Inc. v. Rexford Industrial Realty and Management, Inc.
(2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 175, 187.) 
In its previous ruling, this court relied on the above
authority and it applied it to independent contractors providing services on an
insurer’s behalf. The rule precludes “claims against the principal's
subordinate employees and against agents retained by the principal to act as
independent contractors . . . for conspiring to violate a duty peculiar to the
principal.” (Doctors' Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 49 Cal.3d 39, 48.)
The Complaint alleged that Oakwood prepared repair estimates for Allstate
(Complaint ¶ 6) based not on genuine analysis but only “plugging numbers into
software” (Complaint ¶ 32), and that in exchange for these “lowball” estimates,
Allstate directed work and “supplemental payments” toward Oakwood that they
would not have otherwise received. (Complaint ¶ 59.)
Plaintiff’s FAC now contains allegations in connection with
those stated above, that Oakwood did not “act[] as Allstate’s agent[], and did
not hold themselves out to be anything other than service providers in an arm’s
length transaction with Allstate to generate and draft repair estimates for the
claim, and for submission to the appraisal process.” (FAC ¶ 57.) Plaintiff
elsewhere denies that Oakwood was “in an employment relationship, or any other
relationship whereby Allstate had absolute control over their actions,” and
that Oakwood “made decisions unilaterally to generate low ball repair estimates
in the hopes of obtaining more work from Allstate.”  (FAC ¶ 63.) 
These conclusory allegations are insufficient in light of
the specific allegations establishing agency contained in the FAC, which also formed
the basis for the order sustaining Oakwood’s prior demurrer. It is expressly alleged
that Allstate “hired” Oakwood to conduct the repair estimates on Plaintiff’s
claim and offered “supplemental payments” not offered to other independent
contractors “as a direct result of Oakwood and Smith’s lowball estimates.” (FAC
¶ 63.) Although Plaintiff argues that they were hired as “independent
unaffiliated contractors” (Ibid.), as noted in ruling on the prior
demurrer, the fact that Oakwood was an independent contractor does not exclude
it from agency, any more than it would exclude “an insurance adjusting firm, a
law firm, and their respective employees.” (See Doctors' Co., supra,
49 Cal.3d at p. 48 fn. 4.)  “The same
principles apply not only to attorneys but to other persons employed or
retained by an insurer to discharge its duties under an insurance policy.” (Id.
at p. 188.) Here, Plaintiff’s allegations expressly establish that Allstate
retained Oakwood to discharge its duties under the insurance policy. Counter-allegations
characterizing Oakwood’s wrongful lowballing as “unilateral” does not rebut the
agency context in which such misconduct allegedly took place., Plaintiff’s
attempt to argue that Oakwood did not undertake these actions as agents but for
its own “financial gain” is also unavailing (Opposition at p. 10), as the only
financial gain alleged is Oakwood’s continuing to receive work for Allstate,
i.e. continuing the agency relationship. (FAC ¶ 63.)
As with the previous demurrer, the same arguments dispense
with Plaintiff’s UCL claim. No claim for “unlawful” conduct serves as a
predicate UCL violation here, since the statute that Plaintiff relies upon
(Penal Code § 550) does not impose liability upon ““insurance companies and
insurance company agents, affiliates, and exchanges.” (People ex rel.
Alzayat v. Hebb (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 801, 814.) Plaintiff’s attempt to
limit the application of this holding to predicate violations under Insurance
Code § 1871.7 is unpersuasive, as the holding is not based on the applicability
of Penal Code § 550 to any section of the insurance code, but the applicability
of section 550 in general; it forms no predicate violation under Insurance Code
1871.7 because insurance companies and their agents “[are] not subject to
criminal liability under Penal Code section 550.” (Alzayat, supra,
18 Cal.App.5th at p. 814; see also State of California ex rel.
Nee v. Unumprovident Corp. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 442, 450 [analyzing
language of Penal Code § 550].) For the same reason, it can form no predicate
violation under the UCL. 
Plaintiff’s attempts to plead under the other UCL prongs
fare no better. There is no allegation of unfair practices under the UCL, which
requires allegations that the wrongdoing alleged is “tethered to any underlying
constitutional, statutory or regulatory provision, or that it threatens an
incipient violation of an antitrust law, or violates the policy or spirit of an
antitrust law.” (Durell v. Sharp Healthcare (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 1350,
1366 [applying test to consumer UCL cases].) Plaintiff makes no attempt to
allege or argue that Oakwood’s conduct fit within this definition. Finally, no
claim for a UCL violation based on fraud is alleged here, as a claim for
fraudulent business practices under the UCL requires a showing of “actual
reliance” on the alleged misrepresentation, and the Complaint does not allege
that Plaintiff relied on Oakwood’s representations. (Chapman v. Skype Inc.
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 228.)
As to the sixth cause of action for conspiracy, Oakwood is
correct that “[c]ivil conspiracy is
not an independent
tort.” (City of Industry v. City of
Fillmore (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 191, 211.) This claim is therefore properly
dismissed. 
The demurrer is therefore SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED as moot.
2.     Carrasco Demurrer
Defendant Ed Carrasco (Carrasco)
demurrers to the third, fifth, and sixth causes of action for negligent
misrepresentation, UCL violations, and conspiracy. 
“The elements of negligent misrepresentation are “(1) the
misrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, (2) without reasonable
ground for believing it to be true, (3) with intent to induce another's
reliance on the fact misrepresented, (4) justifiable reliance on the
misrepresentation, and (5) resulting damage.” (National Union Fire Ins. Co.
of Pittsburgh, PA v. Cambridge Integrated Services Group, Inc. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 35, 50.)
Carrasco argues, persuasively, that the FAC does not allege
actual reliance on any misrepresentation made by him. The FAC alleges that Carrasco
propounded a patently insufficient cost of repair for Plaintiff’s damaged
property. (FAC ¶ 52.) But it also alleges that Plaintiff never relied on this
estimate, but contested it from the moment he first received it. (FAC ¶ 14.) 
Plaintiff does not allege a negligent misrepresentation
claim.  The FAC alleges two false
misrepresentations by Carrasco: that he misrepresented the repair estimate, and
that he provided a phone number to his supervisor that “was not a general phone
number and not a direct line to Romero.” (FAC ¶ 52.) Plaintiff alleges that in
reliance on Carrasco’s representations, he “pursued the claim and submitted his
own estimate, which Carrasco rejected.” (FAC ¶ 53.) But this allegation is
self-contradictory, as Plaintiff’s preparation of his own counter-estimate is
definitionally not reliance upon Carrasco’s own estimate. (FAC ¶ 53.) Indeed,
Defendant is correct that Plaintiff’s specific account of his interactions with
Carrasco demonstrate his facial resistance to Carrasco’s estimate. (FAC ¶ 14.)
Moreover, Plaintiff’s allegation that Carrasco provided a wrong number for his
supervisor does not state a basis for negligent misrepresentation liability,
because Plaintiff does not allege why this misrepresentation is “material.” (National
Union Fire Ins. Co. of Pittsburgh, PA, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at p.
50.) 
Plaintiff in opposition presents a number of other
potential misrepresentations, which are not pleaded as misrepresentations in
the FAC, or else not pleaded as misrepresentations that Plaintiff relied on,
such as that Carrasco’s stated that he would undertake a “fair and truthful
investigation” (alleged only as a duty in FAC ¶ 54); that Carrasco discounted
the damage to the upstairs walls (disputed by Plaintiff from the beginning (FAC
¶¶ 13–14, 20); and that Carrasco told Plaintiff he could not switch to a new
claims adjuster (which is not alleged to be false (FAC ¶ 22).) Plaintiff also
argues reliance claims that do not appear in the FAC, such as that Plaintiff
refrained from coordinating vendors in reliance on Carrasco’s representations.
(Opposition at p. 3.) Plaintiff’s opposition does not state any reliance on a
misrepresentation; only that Plaintiff suffered harm from Carrasco’s
obstructionist conduct.
The demurrer is therefore SUSTAINED with leave to amend as
to the third cause of action. 
Carrasco’s arguments against the fifth cause of action for
UCL violations and the sixth cause of action for conspiracy. Mirror the same
arguments made by Oakwood, with the added contention that an employee such as
Carrasco cannot be liable for conspiring with his employer. (Demurrer at pp.
13–17.) 
These arguments are persuasive. The reasoning of People
ex rel. Alzayat v. Hebb (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 801, 814, applies to Carrasco
as an employee of Allstate as well as Oakwood. (FAC ¶ 4.)  Nor has Plaintiff alleged unfair or
fraudulent conduct against Carrasco. Again, “[c]ivil
conspiracy is
not an independent
tort.” (City of Industry v. City of
Fillmore (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 191, 211.) And moreover, “[t]o hold that a
subordinate employee of a corporation can be liable for conspiring with the
corporate principal would destroy what has heretofore been the settled rule
that a corporation cannot conspire with itself.” (Black v. Bank of America
(1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 1, 6.) Plaintiff’s argument that Carrasco may be liable
for conspiracy based on his independent financial gain once more proposes no
more financial gain than the perpetuation of Carrasco’s employment
relationship. (Opposition at pp. 7–8.) 
The demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the fifth and sixth causes
of action without leave to amend. Carrasco’s motion to strike the prayer for
punitive damages is DENIED as moot.
II.            
MOTION TO
STRIKE
Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., §
435(b)(1)). The notice of motion to strike a portion of a pleading shall quote
in full the portions sought to be stricken except where the motion is to strike
an entire paragraph, cause of action, count or defense. (California Rules of
Court Rule 3.1322.)
The grounds for a motion to
strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or form any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437(a)). The court then may strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading and strike out all or any part of any pleading
not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or
an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) When the defect which
justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave
to amend. (Perlman v. Municipal Court
(1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 568, 575.)
Defendant Allstate Insurance
Co. (Allstate) moves to strike the FAC’s prayer for punitive damages. (Motion
at pp. 7–10.) 
Punitive damages are allowed in non-contract cases when a
defendant is guilty of “oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .” (Civ. Code §
3294.) The terms are defined as:
“Malice” means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to
cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.
“Fraud”
means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material
fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.
Something more than the mere commission of a
tort is always required for punitive damages. (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.) Proof of
negligence, gross negligence, or recklessness is insufficient to warrant an
award of punitive damages. (Dawes v.
Sup.Ct. (Mardian) (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, 88–89.) Punitive damages may be
recovered in an action for negligence or other nonintentional torts if the
plaintiff pleads and proves that the defendant acted with the state of mind
described as “conscious disregard” of the potential dangers to others. (Pfeifer v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 1270, 1299.) When malice is based on a defendant’s conscious
disregard of Plaintiff’s rights, the conduct must be both despicable and
willful. (College Hospital v. Superior
Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 794, 713 (“College
Hospital”).)
The FAC alleges sufficient grounds for
punitive damages against Allstate. The FAC allege that Allstate prepared a
false and misleading estimate for the cost of repair to Plaintiff’s property
without substantial basis or investigation, against the protestations of
Plaintiff and retained specialists, based on a deliberate plan to thrust
Plaintiff into a lengthy dispute resolution process rather than resolve the
claim on a reasonable basis. (FAC ¶¶ 14–35.) The appraisal process resulted in
an award in Plaintiff’s favor, which Allstate still has failed to honor. (FAC
¶¶ 37–40.)
Plaintiff does not, however, alleged
authorization, direction, or ratification of this conduct by an officer,
director, or managing agent of Allstate, as required under Civil Code § 3294,
subd. (b). 
Allstate’s motion to strike the prayer for
punitive damages is therefore GRANTED with leave to amend.