 Case Number:  24SMCV00099    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Fanfixapp LLC,
et al., v. Passes Inc., et al.
CASE NO.:                24SMCV00099
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production
HEARING DATE:   7/12/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
            In the absence of contrary court
order, a civil litigant’s right to discovery is broad. “[A]ny party may obtain
discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject
matter involved in the pending action . . . if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (CCP § 2017.010; see Davies v. Superior Court (1984)
36 Cal.3d 291, 301.)  If a party to whom
a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to
serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
response to the demand. (CCP § 2031.300(b); see Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403-404.) However, when responses are served, the
proper motion is a motion to compel further responses, which is governed by CCP
§§ 2030.300 and 2031.310. A motion to compel further responses must set forth
specific facts showing “good cause” justifying the discovery sought by the
demand and must be accompanied by a declaration showing a “reasonable and good
faith attempt” to resolve the issues outside of court. (CCP §§ 2016.040,
2031.310(b)(2).) 
 
            A motion to compel further responses
to a demand for inspection or production of documents may be brought based on:
(1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or incomplete
claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly generalized
objections. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).) A motion
for order compelling further responses “shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.” (CCP §
2031.310(b)(1).) Absent a claim of privilege or attorney work product, the
moving party meets its burden of showing good cause by a fact-specific showing
of relevance. (See Kirkland v.
Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) If the moving party
has shown good cause for the RPDs, the burden is on the objecting party to
justify the objections. (Id.)  
 
Analysis
            

Defendant Passes, Inc. moves to
compel further responses from Plaintiffs FanFixApp and SuperOrdinaryCo USA,
Inc. as to the Requests for Production of Documents (RPD) Nos. 2-3 and 26.
 
RPD no. 2: DOCUMENTS sufficient to show the process
OR work efforts by which FANFIX learned OR created each of the ALLEGED TRADE
SECRETS.
 
Plaintiff objects on the grounds
of: a) attorney-client privilege, work-product doctrine, or other privilege or
protection; b) trade secret or other confidential reasons, c) that the request
as vague and ambiguous as to the “process,” “work efforts,” “learned,” and
“created”; and d) the request imposes an undue burden. 
 
Plaintiff provides no basis in the
record that any of the sought documents would be protected by the attorney
client privilege/work product doctrine. Plaintiff has not supplied a privilege
log for the Court to evaluate the claims of privilege. Furthermore, the Court
finds no ambiguity in the terms “process,” “work efforts,” “learned,” and
“created,” which may be construed with their everyday meaning.  Objections for being “overbroad,” “burdensome,”
or “oppressive” are only valid when the responding party is asserting an undue
burden based on the “quantum of work required” to satisfy the production. (West
Pico Furniture Co. v. Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.)  Plaintiff does not substantiate their claims
of undue burden in responding to this request. Plaintiffs do not provide any
estimate as to the time and labor which would be required to respond to the request.
 
 
Trade secrets may be disclosed in
discovery where the trade secret information is directly relevant and there is
no less intrusive means exist. The creation process/efforts of the trade
secrets go directly to the heart of the case, i.e., trade secret
misappropriation. A plaintiff in a trade secret case has the burden of proving
secrecy under Civil Code Section 3426.1. Documents showing the process or work
efforts by which Fanfix learned or created the alleged trade secrets would tend
to prove or disprove the secret nature of the alleged trade secret. Plaintiff
offers no reasonable alternative to disclosure. Thus, the trade secret
privilege would not bar disclosure.
 
Plaintiff provides the following
substantive response: The trade secrets at issue, as alleged in the operative
Complaint and described in the identification provided pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure 2019.210 (the “Identification”), are in large part methodologies
and compilations, such that the types of documents called for by the request
either do not exist, or require a review of virtually every
communication and/or transmittal sent or received by multiple employees,
some of which long pre-date the events relevant to this lawsuit, as well as
extensive communications with third-party creators, agents, managers, and
vendors by which the information at issue was obtained, and the relationships
jeopardized or interfered with were established. (Emphasis added.)
 
This is not a code complaint
response. It does not state whether Plaintiff will produce documents, that it
cannot locate such documents after reasonable inquiry, or that it cannot comply
because such documents do not exist. Essentially, Plaintiff re-asserts its overruled
burden objections. Moreover, the process by which Plaintiff created or learned
the trade secrets is reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence concerning the secret nature of the trade secrets. As
stated, a plaintiff has the burden of proving secrecy under Civil Code Section
3426.1. Knowing how these trade secrets were created may reveal that some of
the information was or was not secret. Accordingly, a further response is
required.
 
RPD no. 3: All DOCUMENTS AND THINGS REFERRING OR
RELATING TO Internet-based OR other publicly accessible sources from which
FANFIX at ANY time has located ANY of the ALLEGED TRADE SECRETS.
 
Response: “Plaintiff does
not publish its trade secrets, and to the extent the trade secrets alleged in
the operative Complaint and described in the Identification derive at all from
publicly available sources, it is well established that such information, when
compiled, synthesized, analyzed, or modified, can constitute a trade secret,
and otherwise warrants protection as confidential.”
 
Again, Plaintiff does not provide a
code-complaint response. Plaintiff’s response suggests that it does not
have responsive documents, but does so in an evasive fashion. If Plaintiff
denies that such documents ever existed, it must provide a statement which
substantively complies with Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.230: 
 
“A representation of inability to
comply with the particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling
shall affirm that a diligent search and a reasonable inquiry has been made in
an effort to comply with that demand. This statement shall also specify whether
the inability to comply is because the particular item or category has never
existed, has been destroyed, has been lost, misplaced, or stolen, or has never
been, or is no longer, in the possession, custody, or control of the responding
party. The statement shall set forth the name and address of any natural person
or organization known or believed by that party to have possession, custody, or
control of that item or category of item.” 
 
Accordingly, a further response is required.
 
RPD no. 26: For the period beginning January 1, 2023,
REGARDING FANFIX’s products and services, DOCUMENTS AND THINGS RELATING TO
FANFIX’s past, present OR future, AND actual OR projected (a) profits; (b)
operational AND other costs; OR (c) ANY measure of market share, i ncluding
such information by product line if prepared by FANFIX to reflect OR break out
such product line information.
 
Plaintiff submitted an
objection-only response:
 
Plaintiff objects to this request
on the ground and to the extent that it seeks information protected from
disclosure by the attorney-client privilege, work-product doctrine, or other
privilege or protection. Plaintiff further objects to this request to the
extent it seeks information constituting trade secret or other confidential,
proprietary, or sensitive business information, the disclosure of which could
result in irreparable harm or competitive injury to Plaintiff, or impinge upon
the privacy rights of or confidentiality obligations to any third party.
Plaintiff further objects to the terms and/or phrases “REGARDING,” “products
and services,” “DOCUMENTS AND THINGS,” “RELATING TO,” “past, present OR
future,” “actual OR projected,” “profits,” “operational AND other costs,”
“measure of market share,” “product line,” and “break out” as vague, ambiguous,
unintelligible, and imposing or purporting to impose upon Plaintiff undue
burden or burden in excess of that imposed by the Code of Civil Procedure. Plaintiff
further objects to this request as grossly overbroad, and duplicative of
another in this set. Plaintiff further objects to this request as premature
expert discovery governed by the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure sections
2034.010, et seq. Plaintiff further objects on the ground that the request
seeks information that is either not relevant to the claims and defenses
presently asserted in this action, or has probative value significantly
outweighed by the burden of and/or potential harm resulting from its disclosure.
 
Plaintiff fails to substantiate any
of their objections with the requisite evidentiary foundation for the same
reasons discussed above. This request seeks documents relating to Plaintiffs’
(a) profits; (b) operational and other costs; or (c) any measure of market
share. A trade secret plaintiff may recover damages for the “actual loss caused
by the misappropriation” and for “unjust enrichment caused by misappropriation
that is not taken into account in computing damages for actual loss.” (Civ.
Code § 3426.3(a); Ajaxo v. E*Trade Group (2005) 135 C.A.4th 21, 57, 63,
37 C.R.3d 221 [unjustified enrichment theory gave trial court discretion to
award royalties in the absence of provable damages]; see Sargon Enterprises,
Inc. v. University of Southern Calif. (2012) 55 Cal.4th 747, 773-774 [“damages
for the loss of prospective profits are recoverable where the evidence makes
reasonably certain their occurrence and extent”].) Documents related to profits,
costs, and market share from January 1, 2023, related to Fanfix’s products and
services, would be relevant to show Plaintiff’s actual loss stemming from
misappropriation and breach of any confidentiality clauses. As such, the
request appears reasonably tailored to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence relating to Plaintiff’s lost profits resulting from the alleged trade
secret misappropriation.
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.
 
Further responses are ordered
within 30 days.
 