  Case Number:  21STCV40129    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:               April
30, 2024             
 
CASE NAME:                       Jackie
Subeck v. Lemonade Holdings, LLC, et al.     
 
CASE NO.:                            21STCV40129

 
MOTION
FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS 
 
MOVING PARTY:                           Defendants Freddy
Braidi and Kerim Ortanca 
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S):            None
as of April 25, 2024
 
REQUESTED
RELIEF:                  Defendants
ask for judgment on the pleadings of Plaintiff Jackie Subeck’s complaint,
because Plaintiff has not alleged valid causes of action for breach of contract
and promissory estoppel against either Defendant.
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING:                  Defendants Braidi
and Ortanca’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED without leave to
amend.
 
 
 
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
            Plaintiff
sold an eighty percent (80%) interest in Defendant Door Number Six, LLC to
Defendants Sholom Goodman, Freddy Braidi and Kerim Ortanca.  As part of the purchase and sale, Plaintiff and
Defendant Lemonade Holdings, LLC entered into a Consulting Agreement.  Plaintiff and Lemonade Holdings, LLC then
entered into an Amendment to the Consulting Agreement on February 25,
2021.  
 
Plaintiff alleges Defendants
breached the Consulting Agreement by failing to make payments to her as
required.  Plaintiff sent invoices to
Defendants for the payments due to her under the Consulting Agreement and
Amendment.  Plaintiff alleges she
terminated the agreement on June 17, 2021 based Defendants’ material agreement
of the Consulting Agreement and Amendment based on nonpayment of
compensation.  
 
            On November
1, 2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants Lemonade Holdings, LLC,
Door Number Six, LLC, Sholom Goodman, Freddy Braidi and Kerim Ortanca.  Plaintiff alleges (1) breach of contract and
(2) promissory estoppel.
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
            “Judgment
on the pleadings is akin to a demurrer and is properly granted only if the
complaint does not state facts sufficient to state a cause of action against
that defendant.  The grounds for the
motion must appear on the face of the complaint, and in any matters subject to
judicial notice. The court accepts as true all material factual allegations,
giving them a liberal construction, but it does not consider conclusions of
fact or law, opinions, speculation, or allegations contrary to law or
judicially noticed facts.  Appellate
courts review the record de novo to determine whether the complaint states a
cause of action as a matter of law.”  (Shea Homes Limited Partnership v. County of
Alameda (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1246, 1254.)
 
            A statutory
motion for judgment on the pleadings may be brought pursuant to CCP §438.  CCP §438(c)(1) states, “A motion provided for
in this section may only be made on one of the following grounds:…(B) If the
moving party is a defendant, that either of the following conditions
exist:  (i) The court has no jurisdiction
of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the complaint; (ii) The
complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
against that defendant.”  A motion for
judgment on the pleadings may be brought on the same grounds raised in a
previously overruled demurrer “provided that there has been a material change
in applicable case law or statute since the ruling on the demurrer.”  (CCP §438(g)(1).)  A common law motion for judgment on the
pleadings without such restrictions is still recognized.  (Cordova
v. 21st Century Ins. Co. (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 89, 109.)
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
            I.  Parties’ Positions
 
Defendants Braidi and Ortanca move
for judgment on the pleadings on grounds that they are not alleged parties to
the Consulting Agreement.  Defendants
argue Plaintiff admits that the Consulting Agreement and Amendment were between
Plaintiff and Lemonade Holdings, LLC. 
Defendants argue they are not liable for the obligations of Lemonade
Holdings, LLC based solely on their status as employees, officers or members of
Lemonade Holdings, LLC.  Defendants also
argue the alter ego allegations are conclusory and insufficient to plead alter
ego.  
 
            Defendants
argue the breach of contract claim also fails, because Plaintiff does not
allege whether the agreement was oral or written.  Defendants argue Plaintiff also failed to
attach a copy of the contract or plead its material terms.  
 
            Defendants
argue there are no allegations to support a claim for promissory estoppel
against either of them. Defendants argue the only alleged statements made by
Defendant Braidi to Plaintiff were not promises of payment.  Defendants argue no statements are alleged as
to Defendant Ortanca.
 
            Plaintiff
did not file an opposition to the Motion. 
Plaintiff has also lost her right to amend the complaint once of course
pursuant to CCP §472.  
 
            2.  First Cause of Action for Breach of
Contract—GRANT
 
            The
elements for a breach of contract cause of action are: (1) the existence of a
contract; (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3)
defendant’s breach; and (4) resulting damages. 
(Reichert v. General Ins. Co.
(1968) 68 Cal.2d 822, 830.)  A written
contract may be pleaded either in haec verba (word for word) or generally
“according to its legal intendment and effect” (e.g., “Defendant agreed to sell
the described property to Plaintiff for $100,000”).  (Construction
Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189,
198–199.)  An oral contract may be
pleaded generally as to its effect, because it is rarely possible to allege the
exact words.  (Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 635, 640.)  
 
            Plaintiff
fails to allege the existence of a contract between her self and Defendants
Braidi and Ortanca.  The only agreements
alleged are between Plaintiff and Lemonade Holdings, LLC.  (Complaint, ¶¶15 and 24.)  
 
            Plaintiff
does not allege any basis to hold Defendants Braidi and Ortanca liable for the
debts and obligations of Lemonade Holdings, LLC.  Plaintiff does not allege any relationship
between Braidi and Ortanca and Lemonade Holdings, LLC.  
 
Pursuant to Corporations Code
§17703.04(a), the debts and obligations of an LLC are not the debts and
obligations of any member of manager solely due to their status as member or
manager.  However, Corporations Code
§17703.04(b) recognizes that a member can be held liable under the alter ego
doctrine and to the same extent that a shareholder of a corporation can be held
personally liable for the debt, obligation or liability of the corporation.
 
Here,
Plaintiff fails to allege any relationship between Braidi and Ortanca and
Lemonade Holdings, LLC, e.g. officer, member and/or manager.  Even if there were such allegations, they
alone would be insufficient to state a claim against Braidi and Ortanca for
breach of an agreement between Plaintiff and Lemonade Holdings, LLC.  
Plaintiff
fails to allege sufficient facts to state a claim for alter ego liability
against Braidi and Ortanca for the debts and obligations of Lemonade Holdings,
LLC.  To plead alter ego, there must be
factual allegations that would establish a unity of interest, such as
commingling of funds and other assets, the holding out of the entities as
liable for the debts of the principal, use of the same offices and employees,
use of one another as a mere shell or conduit for the affairs of the other,
inadequate capitalization and failure to adhere to corporate formalities.  (Automotriz Del Golfo De California SA de CV
v. Resnicke, et al. (1957) 47 Cal.2d 792, 796; Sonora Diamond Corp.et al. v. Supr. Ct. (2000) 83
Cal.App.4th 523, 538.)  A plaintiff need
only allege ultimate facts to plead alter ego and survive demurrer.  (Rutherford
Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 236.)  Plaintiff alleges no facts in support of her
alter ego claim.  (Complaint, ¶11.)  
 
However, Plaintiff sufficiently alleges the material terms of the
agreement by legal intendment and effect. 
(Complaint, ¶15.)  Plaintiff was
to provide non-exclusive consultant” services, i.e. to “create, advocate and
implement strategies to effectuate regulatory and policy changes with the City,
County of Los Angeles and State of California that will allow DN6 to operate
the business.”  (Complaint, ¶15.)  In exchange, Plaintiff was to receive payment
in accordance with the terms of the Consulting Agreement and Amendment.  (Complaint, ¶¶16-24.)  The Court can also reasonably infer from the complaint
that the Consulting Agreement and Amendment were written, because Plaintiff
quotes from specific sections by section number.  (Id.)
 
            Plaintiff
did not file an opposition in response to the MJP.  The burden is on Plaintiff to establish that
the defect is reasonably capable of cure with leave to amend.  (Hendy
v. Losse (1991) 54 Cal.3d 723, 742.) 
As such, Defendants Braidi and Ortanca Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings to the breach of contract cause of action is granted without leave to
amend.
 
            2.  Promissory Estoppel
 
            “The
elements of a promissory estoppel claim are (1) a promise clear and unambiguous
in its terms, (2) reliance by the party to whom the promise is made, (3) the
reliance must be both reasonable and foreseeable, and (4) the party asserting
the estoppel must be injured by his reliance.” (Jones v. Wachovia Bank (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 935, 945.)  “A promise is an indispensable element of the
doctrine of promissory estoppel…[it] cannot be invoked and must be held
inapplicable in the absence of a showing that a promise had been made upon
which the complaining party relied to his prejudice.” (Aton Center, Inc. v. United Healthcare Ins. Co. (2023) 93
Cal.App.5th 1214, 1230.)  The promise
must be “clear and unambiguous in its terms” and “cannot be established from
preliminary discussions.” (Id.)
 
            Plaintiff
fails to allege any clear and unambiguous promise by either Braidi or
Ortanca.  Plaintiff only alleges that
Lemonade Holdings and Goodman made clear and unambiguous promises to pay her as
a consultant to assist with the DN6 licensing with City of West Hollywood.  (Complaint, ¶62.)  There is no allegation that Braidi or Ortanca
made such promises, nor are there any allegations that would make Braidi or
Ortanca liable for Lemonade Holdings, LLC’s promises, such as alter ego.  
            
            Plaintiff
did not file an opposition.  Defendants
Braidi and Ortanca’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as to the second
cause of action for promissory estoppel is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows:  Defendants Braidi and Ortanca’s Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED without 10 days leave to amend.  Plaintiff failed to file any opposition.  
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              April 30, 2024                                     __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                                Judge of the Superior Court