Here is the summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:


Case Number: BC512275
Plaintiff's Name: Brigitte Reid
Defendant's Name: Sheryl Rosenberg
People Names: Brigitte Reid, Sheryl Rosenberg, Muhammad Khilji
Company Names: SD Sheryl Brigette, LLC (SDSB)
Places: Los Angeles, Orange County
Dates: June 17, 2013, June 16, 2015, December 5, 2022, May 8, 2024, August 6, 2024, June 26, 2024, October 9, 2024, October 22, 2024
Events: Trial, Hearing, Statement of Decision
Money: Financial harm, Tax payments
Intentions: Clarify management of SDSB, Enjoin interference with Khilji's administration, Appoint Khilji as SDSB's receiver
Facts: SDSB is an all-member-managed limited liability company, Plaintiff and Defendant are managing members, Defendant has refused to recognize Khilji's appointment as SDSB's daily administrator
Disputes: Management of SDSB, Recognition of Khilji's appointment, Appointment of receiver
Acts: Vote by SDSB members to appoint Khilji, Defendant's refusal to recognize Khilji's appointment, Plaintiff's request for clarification and injunction
Agreements: Articles of Organization of SDSB, Statement of Decision on Phase One of the trial
Laws: California Rules of Court, Code of Civil Procedure, Evidence Code
Case Citations: Bay World Trading, Ltd. v. Nebraska Beef, Inc. (2002) 101 Cal. App. 4th 135, Herrera v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, Phillips v. Phillips (1953) 41 Cal.2d 869
Statutes: California Rules of Court, Code of Civil Procedure, Evidence Code
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant, Member-managers of SDSB
Significant Statements:
* The Court confirms and reiterates its finding that SDSB is an "all member-managed limited liability company" and is managed by all its members, including Diller's seven grandchildren.
* The Court finds it unnecessary to consider the alternative reliefs requested in Plaintiff's Motion.

Summary:
The Judge's tentative ruling confirms and reiterates its previous finding that SD Sheryl Brigette, LLC (SDSB) is an "all member-managed limited liability company" and is managed by all its members, including Brigitte Reid and Sheryl Rosenberg's children. The Judge denies Plaintiff's request for an order to clarify the management of SDSB and for an injunction enjoining interference with Muhammad Khilji's administration of SDSB, as the Court's previous statements of decision have already clarified the matter.