  Case Number:  23STCP02309    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DANIEL LOPEZ, an
  individual, 
                        Petitioner,
            vs.
 
WOMEN’S TWENTIETH CENTURY CLUB OF EAGLE
  ROCK, a California corporation, 
                                                                             
  
                        Respondent.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCP02309
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND PLEADINGS
 
Date: October 22, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
DANIEL LOPEZ (“Petitioner”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Respondent
WOMEN’S TWENTIETH CENTURY CLUB OF EAGLE ROCK (“Respondent”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving and
opposition papers.  No reply has been
filed.  Any reply was required to have been
filed and served at least five court days prior to the hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)
 
BACKGROUND
             This is an appeal from a Labor Commissioner
ruling pursuant to Labor Code section 98.2. concerning Petitioner’s wage and
hour claims stemming from his period of employment with Respondent as a
resident clubhouse caretaker.  On June
19, 2023, the Labor Commissioner issued a written order regarding Petitioner’s
claims.  On July 3, 2023, Petitioner
filed a notice of appeal. 
 
            On September 30, 2024, Petitioner filed
the instant motion entitled “Motion for Leave to Amend Pleadings” (the
“Motion”).  Respondent filed an
opposition on October 9, 2024.
             
DISCUSSION
            While the Motion is entitled a “Motion for Leave to Amend Pleadings,” Petitioner
actually seeks leave to add to his exhibit list.  Accordingly, the Court treats the Motion as a
motion to expand exhibit list.  (Sole
Energy Co. v. Petrominerals Corp. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 187, 193 (trial
courts have the discretion to construe a motion as being different from
the label; the nature of a motion is determined by the nature of the relief
sought, not by the label attached to it.) 
“The principle that a trial court may consider a motion regardless of
the label placed on it by a party is consistent with the courts [sic]
inherent authority to manage and control its docket.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 128, subd. (a), 187.)”  (Id.)
 
            Secondly, the Court
notes that court records reflect the Motion was filed on September 30, 2024,
the 16th day before the hearing.  Petitioner did not include a proof of service
of the Motion, which is required by Court rules.  Respondent, however, filed an opposition
asserting that Petitioner filed and served his Motion on October 1, 2024 – 15
court days before the hearing date, and thus the Motion was not properly
noticed and must be denied.  
 
The principles that self-represented litigants are
entitled to no greater rights than represented litigants, and trial courts must
expeditiously process civil cases, “must yield to the even greater principles
of providing in propria persona litigants with meaningful access to the courts
and of deciding bona fide civil actions on their merits.”  (Apollo v. Gyaami (2008) 167
Cal.App.4th 1468, 1487.)
 
            The Court does not
approve or disapprove of the inclusion of exhibits on exhibit lists, although the
Court will rule on the admissibility of each exhibit as it is introduced.  Therefore, this Motion is not only
inadequately noticed, but even if it were properly noticed it is a proper
motion for this Court to consider and it is DENIED.  This ruling does not, however, preclude any
party from adding to the exhibit list, although this does not mean that the
Court will find any such exhibits to be admissible at the time of the hearing.
            
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 22nd day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 



