 Case Number:  BC512275    Hearing Date:   October 22, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



BRIGETTE REID,
  an individual, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SHERYL ROSENBERG, an individual;
and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants,
 
            and
 
SD SHERYL BRIGETTE, LLC, a
California limited liability company,
 
                       Nominal Defendant.


 


     
  CASE NO.:  BC512275
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR AN ORDER TO
  CLARIFY FOR SDSB’S BANKS THAT IT IS MEMBER-MANAGED BY NINE MEMBER-MANAGERS;
  OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE ENJOINING ANY
INTERFERENCE WITH THE
DECEMBER 5, 2022 SDSB MEMBERS’
RESOLUTION APPOINTING
MUHAMMAD KHILJI, CPA AS
SDSB’s DAILY ADMINISTRATOR;
OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, FOR
APPOINTING KHILJI AS SDSB’S
RECEIVER PENDENTE LITE
 
Date: October 22, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
BRIGETTE REID (“Plaintiff” or “Reid”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant
SHERYL ROSENBERG (“Defendant” or “Rosenberg”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving and
opposition papers.  No reply has been
filed.  Any reply was required to have been
filed and served at least five court days prior to the hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)
 
BACKGROUND
             This action was initiated on June 17, 2013,
and stems from a dispute between two sisters, Plaintiff and Defendant,
regarding the management and control of SD Sheryl Brigette, LLC (“SDSB”), a
limited liability company formed for their benefit by their late father,
Stanley Diller.  The operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) filed on
July 16, 2019 asserts the following causes of action: (1) Declaratory Relief;
(2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty (Individual); (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty (Derivative);
(4) Accounting and Constructive Trust; and (5) Judicial Expulsion.  The TAC alleges that: (1) Plaintiff and
Defendant were transferred equal interests in SDSB by their father, Diller,
prior to his death; (2) Plaintiff and Defendant are both managing members of
SDSB; but (3) Defendant has fraudulently deprived Plaintiff of her economic and
management rights in SDSB. 
 
            On May 8, 2024, the Court issued a Statement
of Decision on Phase One of the trial (“SOD – 1”), which addressed Plaintiff’s request
for declaratory relief.  On August 6,
2024, the Court issued a Statement of Decision on Phase Two of the trial, focusing
on the validity of Defendant’s 24th affirmative defense.  Both Phase One and Phase Two of the trial were
decided in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant.
 
            On June 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant Motion for an Order to Clarify for SDSB’s Banks That It Is
Member-Managed by Nine Members; or, in the Alternative, Enjoining Any
Interference with the December 5, 2022 SDSB Members’ Resolution Appointing
Muhammad Khilji, CPA as SDSB’s Daily Administrator; or, in the Alternative, for
Appointing Khilji as SDSB’s Receiver Pendente Lite (the “Motion”).  Defendant filed an opposition on October 9,
2024.
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
            Defendant requests judicial notice of the June 16, 2015 Complaint filed
in Orange County
Superior Court Civil Action No. 30-2015-00793563-CU-MC-CXC (Exhibit
1).  The Court takes judicial notice of
its existence, but not of the truth of assertions within.  (Evid. Code, § 452(c), (d); Herrera v.
Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.) 
 
DISCUSSION
            A trial court has the inherent power to amend its statement of decision before
the entry of judgment.  (Bay World
Trading, Ltd. v. Nebraska Beef, Inc. (2002) 101 Cal. App. 4th 135, 141.)  Even after a court has issued a written
decision, it retains the power to change its findings of fact or conclusions of
law until judgment is entered.  (Id.,
citing Phillips v. Phillips (1953) 41 Cal.2d 869, 874-875.)  “Until a judgment is entered, it is not
effectual for any purpose (Code Civ. Proc., § 664), and at any time before it
is entered, the court may change its conclusions of law and enter a judgment
different from that first announced. [Citations.] Moreover, a judge who has
heard the evidence may at any time before entry of judgment amend or change his
findings of fact. [Citations.]” (Id. at p. 874.)
 
            Under the Cal. Rules of
Court (“CRC”), rule 3.1590, “[a]ny party may, within 15 days after the proposed
statement of decision and judgment have been served, serve and file objections
to the proposed statement of decision or judgment.”  (CRC rule 3.1590(g).  Under the same rule, however, the CRC
provides that the court “may, by written order, extend any of the times
prescribed by this rule and at any time before the entry of judgment may, for
good cause shown and on such terms as may be just, excuse a noncompliance with
the time limits prescribed for doing any act required by this rule.”  (CRC rule 3.1590(m).)
            
Motion
Plaintiff
brought this Motion on the ground that on December 5, 2022, at a duly-noticed
SDSB members’ meeting, six of SDSB’s member managers voted to have Muhammad Khilji,
CPA (“Khilji”) take over the daily administration of SDSB. Plaintiff
states that since Khilji’s appointment on said date, Defendant has refused to
recognize that resolution, or to implement it. 
Defendant refuses to agree to any action regarding SDSB that requires
the consent of Stanley Diller’s grandchildren, purportedly based on Defendant’s
insistence that she and Plaintiff are the only two managing members of SDSB.  Plaintiff alleges that as a result of
Defendant’s refusal, she has suffered financial harm, and SDSB was not able to
make timely tax payments, among others.
 
 As such, Plaintiff asks the Court for an order
to clarify its finding in SOD-1 that SDSB is managed by all nine members,
including the seven grandchildren of Diller (Reid and Rosenberg’s cumulative children)
— and not by Reid or Rosenberg alone.  In
the alternative, Plaintiff seeks an injunction enjoining anyone from
interfering with Khilji’s administration of SDSB or, alternatively, the appointment
of Khilji as SDSB’s receiver.  
 
Opposition
In
opposition, Defendant argues that the Motion is improper for several reasons.
Regarding Plaintiff's request to clarify this Court’s statement in SOD-1, Defendant
contends that it is too late for such a request, as Plaintiff should have
sought a declaration regarding the management of SDSB by nine members before
Phase One of the trial, not afterward.  Defendant
also cites Rule of Court 3.1590(g), establishing a 15-day deadline for filing objections
to a proposed Statement of Decision.  Although
Plaintiff did file objections to the proposed Statement at that time, she did
not make the current request for the Court’s consideration then.  Furthermore, Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
request for clarification cannot be treated as a motion for reconsideration, as
such motions must be filed within ten days, and there are no new facts or
attorney declaration attesting to the same.  Defendant also asserts that whether SDSB has
two or nine members is a disputed fact that should be resolved during the trial
rather than through a regular motion.       
 
The
Court, however, had clearly stated its finding on this matter in SOD-1 based on
the evidence presented during Phase One of trial.  Specifially, the Court stated: “The sole
initial member of SDSB was Diller.  When
[Diller] assigned 100% of his interest equally to Reid and Rosenberg, with half
of each of their interests to their children, equally, Reid, Rosenberg,
Eddie, Ben, Oliver R, Oliver M, Charlie, Brianna and Brandon became members of
SDSB and thus were managers under the Articles.  The Court finds that as of August 19, 2011
and continuing to the present time, all members of SDSB were the managers
of SDSB.”  (SOD-1, p. 15
(emphasis added).)  This statement is correlated
with the Court’s citation of SDSB’s Article of Organization stating that “6.
THE LIMITED COMPANY WILL BE MANAGED BY:” with a checkmark in the box before the
words “ALL LIMITED LIABILITY COMPANY MEMBER(S).”  (Id., p. 14.)  
 
Moreover,
on the last page of SOD-1, the Court again stated that “[t]he Court
specifically finds that all competent and credible evidence supports a
definitive finding that Diller’s intent was to create an LLC that was equally
managed by Plaintiff and Defendant, with membership interest also held by
their children.”  (Id., p.
34. (emphasis added).)  Finally, the
Conclusion of SOD-1 set forth that “SDSB is a multi-member all
member-managed limited liability company.”  (Id., (emphasis added).)   
 
To
the extent the parties need clarification, the Court confirms and reiterates
its finding in the May 8, 2024 Statement of Decision that SDSB is an “all
member-managed limited liability company”, and that it is managed by all its members,
including Diller’s seven grandchildren.  In
light of this clarification, the Court finds it unnecessary to consider the
alternative reliefs requested in Plaintiff’s Motion.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 22nd day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 