  Case Number:  21PSCV00617    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  G Plaintiff Diana Culkin’s Motion for Reconsideration of
the Ex Parte Application and Order Granting Expungement of Lis Pendens or,
Alternatively, Permission to File a New Lis Pendens
Respondent: Inco Builders, A
California Corporation
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Diana Culkin’s Motion for Reconsideration of
the Ex Parte Application and Order Granting Expungement of Lis Pendens or,
Alternatively, Permission to File a New Lis Pendens is DENIED.
BACKGROUND
This
is a wrongful foreclosure action. On July 30, 2021, Plaintiff Diana Culkin,
also known as Diana Jannette Marmolejo Corona, filed a complaint against Fleet
Capital, Inc. (Fleet Capital), Best Alliance Foreclosure and Lien Services
Corp. (Best Alliance), Inco Builders (Inco), and Does 1-25, alleging the
following causes of action: (1) violation of California's non judicial
foreclosure statutes, (2) wrongful foreclosure, (3) conversion, (4) unfair
business practices, and (5) declaratory relief.
On
February 9, 2022, Inco filed a cross-complaint against Culkin, Michael Culkin,
and Roes 1-10, alleging the following causes of action: (1) trespass and (2)
slander of title.
On
February 23, 2022, Fleet Capital and Inco filed a motion for judgment on the
pleadings as to Culkin’s complaint. On August 4, the court granted the motion
with leave to amend.
On
October 7, 2022, Culkin filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same
defendants as well as Sam Ostayan, alleging the following causes of action: (1)
violation of California's nonjudicial foreclosure statutes, (2) wrongful
foreclosure, (3) quiet title, (4) unfair business practices, and (5)
declaratory relief. On January 5, 2023, the court sustained a demurrer by Fleet
Capital, Inco, and Ostayan.
On
February 24, 2023, the court denied Fleet Capital and Inco’s motion to dismiss Culkin’s
action for failure to file a timely amended complaint and deemed Culkin’s
Second Amended Complaint (SAC) filed as of that date. The SAC is against the
same defendants and alleges the following causes of action: (1) violation of
California's nonjudicial foreclosure statutes, (2) wrongful foreclosure, (3)
quiet title, (4) promissory estoppel, (5) breach of the covenant of good faith
and fair dealing, (6) violation of the Rosenthal Fair Debt Collection Practices
Act, (7) unfair business practices, and (8) declaratory relief. On May 4, the
court sustained a demurrer by Fleet Capital, Inco, and Ostayan in part and overruled it in
part.
On
July 19, 2023, Inco filed an ex parte application to expunge lis pendens and
impose attorney fees and costs on Culkin. On July 20, the court granted Inco’s
ex parte application and set an OSC Re: Attorney Fees and Costs for November 13.
On
August 1, 2023, Culkin filed the present motion. A hearing on Culkin’s motion
is set for September 20 with a case management conference/status conference re:
ADR set for November 13. A motion for sanctions is also set for November 16.
ANALYSIS
Culkin
moves for reconsideration of the court’s July 20, 2023 order granting Inco’s ex
parte application to expunge lis pendens. For the following reasons, the court DENIES Culkin’s motion.
Legal Standard
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1008 sets out two means by which a party can seek
reconsideration of a prior trial court order. First, “[w]hen an application for
an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in
part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by
the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of
entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or
law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to
reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).) Second, “A party who originally made an application
for an order which was refused in whole or part, or granted conditionally or on
terms, may make a subsequent application for the same order upon new or
different facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it shall be shown by
affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order
or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law
are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (b).)
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1008 “specifies the court's jurisdiction with regard to applications for
reconsideration of its orders and renewals of previous motions,
and
applies to all applications to reconsider any order of a judge or court, or for
the renewal of a previous motion, whether the order deciding the previous
matter or motion is interim or final. No application to reconsider any order or
for the renewal of a previous motion may be considered by any judge or court
unless made according to this section.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (e).)
DiscussionIn this case,
Culkin’s motion for reconsideration is timely pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 1008 as it was filed within ten days of the court’s July 20,
2023 order. But Culkin fails to identify any new or different facts,
circumstances, or law that justify reconsideration of the court’s prior order.
Furthermore, Culkin fails to provide such grounds in an affidavit as required
by Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, subdivision (a).
Accordingly,
Culkin’s motion is DENIED.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the
court DENIES Culkin’s motion for reconsideration without prejudice.
