 Case Number:  23PSCV01299    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  G Defendant Cherrie Chen’s Demurrer  to Plaintiff’s Complaint Respondent: NO OPPOSITION (Due  9/7/2023) TENTATIVE RULING Defendant Cherrie Chen’s Demurrer  to Plaintiff’s Complaint is  SUSTAINED with ten (10) days leave to amend.BACKGROUND This  is a contractual fraud action. In January 2019, Plaintiffs Oscar Zhang and  Aveo, Inc. entered into a written and oral agreement with Defendant Suncity  Property Management, LLC (Suncity) and Cherrie Chen in which Plaintiffs  promised to provide renovation services for a property in Rancho Cucamonga in  exchange for $50,000. Plaintiffs began the work in February 2019 and finished  on May 15. During Plaintiffs’ work on the project, Plaintiffs also agreed to provide  additional services including painting and cabinet installation for an additional  $15,260. Subsequently, Plaintiffs allege they only received a payment of $30,000  and are owed an additional $35,260.00 plus interest. On  May 1, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a complaint against Defendants Chen, Queenie  Chiang, Far Seng Wu, Yaqiang Gao, Suncity, Eaglecell Group (Eaglecell), and  Does 1-50, alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of written  contract, (2) fraud and intentional misrepresentation, (3) breach of fiduciary  duties, (4) unjust enrichment, (5) promissory estoppel, (6) breach of implied  covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (7) intentional infliction of  emotional distress (IIED), and (8) breach of implied contract. On August  10, 2023, Chen filed the present demurrer. Prior to filing, Chen’s counsel met  and conferred telephonically with Plaintiffs’ counsel and was unable to reach a  resolution. (Sagheb Decl., Ex. B.)  On August  22, 2023, Chiang and Wu filed the present demurrer. Prior to filing, their  counsel met and conferred telephonically with Plaintiffs’ counsel and was  unable to reach a resolution. (Sagheb Decl., Ex. B.) A hearing  on the two demurrers is set for September 26, 2023. A case management  conference is also set for October 9.ANALYSIS Chen  demurs to Plaintiffs’ entire Complaint. For the following reasons, the court SUSTAINS Chen’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’  entire Complaint with leave to amend. Legal Standard A  party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.  (e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn  v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering  demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT  Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding,  the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial  notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,  994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other  extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face  of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court  (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing  is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,  states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.) Breach of Written Contract (First Cause of Action) Chen  argues Plaintiffs’ first cause of action for breach of written contract fails  to plead sufficient facts to state a claim and is uncertain. The court agrees. Legal Standard To  state a cause of action for breach of contract, a plaintiff must be able to  establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or  excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting  damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51  Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of  a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the  complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated  by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74  Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead the  legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.” (Construction  Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189,  198-199.) Discussion In  this case, Chen argues Plaintiffs fail to show the existence of a signed contract.  Plaintiffs allege they entered into a written contract with Suncity and Chen.  (Complaint, ¶ 22.) But Plaintiffs do not allege how Suncity and Chen entered  into the alleged written contract and how they specifically accepted  Plaintiffs’ offer. While the court treats properly pleaded facts as true for  the purposes of a demurrer, it will not “assume the truth of contentions,  deductions or conclusions of law.” (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992)  2 Cal.4th 962, 967.) Thus, Plaintiffs’ conclusory statement that parties  entered into a written contract is insufficient. And  while Plaintiffs attempted to support this legal contention by providing a copy  of what appears to be a project quote addressed to Suncity and Chen, the quote  was not signed by either defendant. (Complaint, Ex. 1.) Generally, “where the  parties intend to reduce their agreement to writing there is no binding  agreement between the parties until a written contract is signed.” (C.L.  Smith Co. v. Roger Ducharme, Inc. (1977) 65 Cal.App.3d 735, 742.) Thus,  this exhibit is insufficient to fix the pleading deficiencies in Plaintiffs’  first cause of action. Accordingly,  because Plaintiffs failed to adequately allege the existence of a contract, Chen’s  demurrer to Plaintiffs’ first cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. Fraud and Intentional Misrepresentation (Second Cause  of Action) Chen  contends Plaintiffs’ second cause of action for fraud and intentional  misrepresentation is barred by the applicable statute of limitations, fails to  plead sufficient facts to state a claim, and is uncertain. The court agrees. Legal Standard “A  demurrer based on a statute of limitations will not lie where the action may  be, but is not necessarily, barred. [Citation.] In order for the bar of the  statute of limitations to be raised by demurrer, the defect must clearly and  affirmatively appear on the face of the complaint; it is not enough that the  complaint shows that the action may be barred.” (Marshall v. Gibson, Dunn  & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403 (Marshall).) The  statute of limitations for a fraud action is three years. (Code Civ. Proc., §  338, subd. (d).) It does not begin to accrue “until the discovery, by the  aggrieved party, of the facts constituting the fraud or mistake.” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 338, subd. (d).) Discussion In  this case, Chen contends Plaintiffs’ cause of action accrued in August 2019  which is more than three years before this action was filed on May 1, 2023. In June  2019, Plaintiffs allege Chen promised the remaining balance “in a couple of  months.” (Complaint, ¶ 33.) After the two months, Plaintiffs allege they “knew  that [Defendants’] promises were false because they failed to pay the remaining  balance of money owed.” (Complaint, ¶ 34, 50.) Thus, based on these  allegations, Plaintiffs’ cause of action for fraud and misrepresentation  accrued in August 2019, which is more than three years and eight months before  Plaintiffs filed the present action. Accordingly,  Chen’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ second cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. Breach of Fiduciary Duties (Third Cause of Action) Chen  maintains Plaintiffs’ third cause of action for breach of fiduciary duties  fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim and is uncertain. The court  agrees. Legal Standard The  elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty are the existence of  a fiduciary relationship, breach of fiduciary duty, and damages.” (Oasis  West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 820.) Discussion In  this case, Chen maintains there can be no breach of fiduciary duty because  Plaintiffs have failed to establish the existence of a fiduciary relationship.  In Plaintiffs’ Complaint, it appears they allege a fiduciary relationship  arising out of their renovation contract. (Complaint, ¶ 58-59.) Because  Plaintiffs have failed to adequately allege the existence of a written  agreement in the first place, this cause of action necessarily fails as well. Accordingly,  Chen’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ third cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. Unjust Enrichment (Fourth Cause of Action) Chen  argues Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action for unjust enrichment fails to plead  sufficient facts to state a claim and is uncertain. The court agrees. Legal Standard Unjust  enrichment is established by the “receipt of a benefit and unjust retention of  the benefit at the expense of another.” (Lectrodryer v. SeoulBank (2000)  77 Cal.App.4th 723, 726.) It “requires one who acquires a benefit which may not  justly be retained, to return either the thing or its equivalent to the  aggrieved party so as not to be unjustly enriched.” (Otworth v. Southern  Pac. Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 460.) Discussion In  this case, Chen argues Plaintiffs failed to allege Chen personally benefited  from Plaintiffs’ services. While Plaintiffs allege “Defendants were enriched at  the expense of Plaintiffs,” Plaintiffs failed to demonstrate how Chen was  enriched. (Complaint, ¶ 66.) It is also unclear whether Plaintiffs’ work was  done for Suncity or for all defendants. (Complaint, ¶ 24.) And Plaintiffs have  failed to allege Suncity is Chen’s alter ego. “Two  requirements must be met to invoke the alter ego doctrine: (1) ‘[T]here must be  such a unity of interest and ownership between the corporation and its  equitable owner that the separate personalities of the corporation and the  shareholder do not in reality exist’; and (2) ‘there must be an inequitable  result if the acts in question are treated as those of the corporation  alone.’” (Turman v. Superior Court of Orange County (2017) 17  Cal.App.5th 969, 980-981, quoting Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000)  83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538.) Here, Plaintiffs have failed to allege facts meeting  these requirements. Accordingly,  because Plaintiffs have failed to allege how Chen benefited from Plaintiffs’  work, Chen’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, and Eighth Causes of Action Chen  contends Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action for promissory estoppel, sixth cause  of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing,  seventh cause of action for IIED, and eighth cause of action for breach of  implied contract are barred by the applicable statute of limitations, fail to  plead sufficient facts to state a claim, and are uncertain. The court agrees. Legal Standard “A  demurrer based on a statute of limitations will not lie where the action may  be, but is not necessarily, barred. [Citation.] In order for the bar of the  statute of limitations to be raised by demurrer, the defect must clearly and  affirmatively appear on the face of the complaint; it is not enough that the  complaint shows that the action may be barred.” (Marshall, supra, 37 Cal.App.4th at p. 1403.) The statute of limitations for “[a]n action  upon a contract, obligation or liability not founded upon an instrument of  writing” is two years. (Code Civ. Proc., § 339, subd. (1).) The same term also  applies to personal injury actions. (Code Civ. Proc., § 335.1.) Discussion In  this case, Chen contends the statute of limitations began to run in August 2019  when Defendants allegedly failed to make promised payments. (Complaint, ¶ 33,  34, 50.) This failure serves as the basis for Plaintiff’s promissory estoppel,  breached of implied covenants, IIED, and breached of implied contract causes of  action. Because Plaintiffs did not file the present action until more than  three years and eight months later, these causes of action are untimely  brought. Accordingly,  Chen’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of  action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Chen’s  demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint is SUSTAINED in its entirety with 10  days’ leave given to amend as to all causes of action.________________________________________________________________________________Defendants Queenie Chiang  and Far Seng Wu’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint Respondent: NO OPPOSITION TENTATIVE RULING Defendants Queenie Chiang  and Far Seng Wu’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is SUSTAINED with ten (10) days leave to  amend. ANALYSIS Chiang  and Wu demur to Plaintiffs’ entire Complaint. For the following reasons, the  court SUSTAINS Chiang and Wu’s demurrer in its entirety with ten (10) days leave to  amend. Legal Standard A  party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.  (e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn  v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering  demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT  Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding,  the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial  notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,  994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other  extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face  of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court  (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing  is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,  states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.) Breach of Written Contract (First Cause of Action) Chiang  and Wu argue Plaintiffs’ first cause of action for breach of written contract  fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim and is uncertain. The court  agrees. Legal Standard To  state a cause of action for breach of contract, a plaintiff must be able to  establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or  excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting  damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51  Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of  a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the  complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated  by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74  Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead the  legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.” (Construction  Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189,  198-199.) Discussion In  this case, Chiang and Wu argue Plaintiffs fail to show the existence of a  signed contract. Plaintiffs allege they entered into a written contract with  Suncity and Chen. (Complaint, ¶ 22.) But Plaintiffs fail to allege how Chiang  or Wu were parties to this contract. Although Plaintiffs do allege Suncity is  Wu’s alter ego, they fail to properly plead this allegation. (Complaint, ¶ 13.) “Two  requirements must be met to invoke the alter ego doctrine: (1) ‘[T]here must be  such a unity of interest and ownership between the corporation and its  equitable owner that the separate personalities of the corporation and the  shareholder do not in reality exist’; and (2) ‘there must be an inequitable  result if the acts in question are treated as those of the corporation  alone.’” (Turman v. Superior Court of Orange County (2017) 17  Cal.App.5th 969, 980-981, quoting Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000)  83 Cal.App.4th 523, 538.) When making alter ego allegations, pleading with  particularity is not required as a Plaintiff need only allege “ultimate rather  than evidentiary facts.” (Rutherford Holdings, LLC v. Plaza del Rey (2014)  223 Cal.App.4th 221, 236, quoting Burks v. Poppy Construction Co. (1962)  57 Cal.2d 463, 474.) Here,  Plaintiffs fail to meet these requires. Accordingly, because Plaintiffs failed  to adequately allege the existence of a contract, Chiang and Wu’s demurrer to  Plaintiffs’ first cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. Fraud and Intentional Misrepresentation (Second Cause  of Action) Chiang  and Wu contend Plaintiffs’ second cause of action for fraud and intentional  misrepresentation is barred by the applicable statute of limitations, fails to  plead sufficient facts to state a claim, and is uncertain. The court agrees. Legal Standard “A  demurrer based on a statute of limitations will not lie where the action may  be, but is not necessarily, barred. [Citation.] In order for the bar of the  statute of limitations to be raised by demurrer, the defect must clearly and  affirmatively appear on the face of the complaint; it is not enough that the  complaint shows that the action may be barred.” (Marshall v. Gibson, Dunn  & Crutcher (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403 (Marshall).) The  statute of limitations for a fraud action is three years. (Code Civ. Proc., §  338, subd. (d).) It does not begin to accrue “until the discovery, by the  aggrieved party, of the facts constituting the fraud or mistake.” (Code Civ.  Proc., § 338, subd. (d).) Discussion In  this case, Chiang and Wu contend Plaintiffs’ cause of action accrued in August  2019 which is more than three years before this action was filed on May 1,  2023. In June 2019, Plaintiffs allege Chen promised the remaining balance “in a  couple of months.” (Complaint, ¶ 33.) After the two months, Plaintiffs allege  they “knew that [Defendants’] promises were false because they failed to pay  the remaining balance of money owed.” (Complaint, ¶ 34, 50.) Thus, based on  these allegations, Plaintiffs’ cause of action for fraud and misrepresentation  accrued in August 2019, which is more than three years and eight months before  Plaintiffs filed the present action. Accordingly,  Chiang and Wu’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ second cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. Breach of Fiduciary Duties (Third Cause of Action) Chiang  and Wu maintain Plaintiffs’ third cause of action for breach of fiduciary  duties fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim and is uncertain. The  court agrees. Legal Standard The  elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty are the existence of  a fiduciary relationship, breach of fiduciary duty, and damages.” (Oasis  West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 820.) Discussion In  this case, Chiang and Wu maintain there can be no breach of fiduciary duty  because Plaintiffs have failed to establish the existence of a fiduciary  relationship. In Plaintiffs’ Complaint, it appears they allege a fiduciary  relationship arising out of their renovation contract. (Complaint, ¶ 58-59.)  Because Plaintiffs have failed to adequately allege the existence of a written  agreement in the first place, this cause of action necessarily fails as well. Accordingly,  Chiang and Wu’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ third cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. Unjust Enrichment (Fourth Cause of Action) Chiang  and Wu argue Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action for unjust enrichment fails to  plead sufficient facts to state a claim and is uncertain. The court agrees. Legal Standard Unjust  enrichment is established by the “receipt of a benefit and unjust retention of  the benefit at the expense of another.” (Lectrodryer v. SeoulBank (2000)  77 Cal.App.4th 723, 726.) It “requires one who acquires a benefit which may not  justly be retained, to return either the thing or its equivalent to the  aggrieved party so as not to be unjustly enriched.” (Otworth v. Southern  Pac. Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 460.) Discussion In  this case, Chiang and Wu argue Plaintiffs failed to allege Chiang and Wu  personally benefited from Plaintiffs’ services. While Plaintiffs allege  “Defendants were enriched at the expense of Plaintiffs,” Plaintiffs failed to  demonstrate how Chiang and Wu were enriched. (Complaint, ¶ 66.) It is also  unclear whether Plaintiffs’ work was done for Suncity or for all defendants. (Complaint,  ¶ 24.) And as noted above with regards to the first cause of action, Plaintiffs  have failed to allege Suncity is Wu’s alter ego. Accordingly,  because Plaintiffs have failed to allege how Chiang and Wu benefited from Plaintiffs’  work, their demurrer to Plaintiffs’ fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, and Eighth Causes of Action Chiang  and Wu contend Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action for promissory estoppel, sixth  cause of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair  dealing, seventh cause of action for IIED, and eighth cause of action for  breach of implied contract are barred by the applicable statute of limitations,  fail to plead sufficient facts to state a claim, and are uncertain. The court  agrees. Legal Standard “A  demurrer based on a statute of limitations will not lie where the action may  be, but is not necessarily, barred. [Citation.] In order for the bar of the  statute of limitations to be raised by demurrer, the defect must clearly and  affirmatively appear on the face of the complaint; it is not enough that the  complaint shows that the action may be barred.” (Marshall, supra, 37 Cal.App.4th at p. 1403.) The statute of limitations for “[a]n action  upon a contract, obligation or liability not founded upon an instrument of  writing” is two years. (Code Civ. Proc., § 339, subd. (1).) The same term also  applies to personal injury actions. (Code Civ. Proc., § 335.1.) Discussion In  this case, Chiang and Wu contend the statute of limitations began to run in  August 2019 when Defendants allegedly failed to make promised payments.  (Complaint, ¶ 33, 34, 50.) This failure serves as the basis for Plaintiffs’  promissory estoppel, breached of implied covenants, IIED, and breached of  implied contract causes of action. Because Plaintiffs did not file the present  action until more than three years and eight months later, these causes of  action are untimely brought. Accordingly,  Chiang and Wu’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth causes  of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Chiang  and Wu’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint is SUSTAINED in its entirety with ten (10) days leave to amend as to all causes of action.