  Case Number:  19STCV31123    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  61  
Plaintiff
Cindy Lucrecia Gonzalez’s Petition to Approve Minor’s Compromise for Plaintiff
Arlene Gonzalez-Vargas is GRANTED.. 
 
I.               
PETITION
FOR MINOR’S COMPROMISE
Minors or people without legal
capacity to make decisions must appear in court by a guardian, conservator of
the estate, or guardian ad litem. (Code Civ. Proc. § 372, subd. (a)(1).) Such
person appearing in court on behalf of the minor or person without capacity has
the power to compromise the claims of the represented person, “with the
approval of the court.” (Ibid.) The requirement of court approval exists
“to protect the best interests of the minor.” (Pearson v. Superior Court
(2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1333, 1338.) 
“A petition for court approval
of a compromise of, or a covenant not to sue or enforce judgment on, a minor's
disputed claim; a compromise or settlement of a pending action or proceeding to
which a minor or person with a disability is a party; or the disposition of the
proceeds of a judgment for a minor or person with a disability under Probate
Code sections 3500 and 3600-3613 or Code of Civil Procedure section 372 must be
verified by the petitioner and must contain a full disclosure of all
information that has any bearing on the reasonableness of the compromise, covenant,
settlement, or disposition.” (CRC Rule 7.950.) 
If an attorney assisted in the
preparation of the petition, the petition must disclose: “(1) The name, state
bar number, law firm, if any, and business address of the attorney; (2) Whether
the attorney became involved with the petition, directly or indirectly, at the
instance of any party against whom the claim is asserted or of any party's
insurance carrier; (3) Whether the attorney represents or is employed by any
other party or any insurance carrier involved in the matter; (4) Whether the
attorney has received any attorney's fees or other compensation for services
provided in connection with the claim giving rise to the petition or with the
preparation of the petition, and, if so, the amounts and the identity of the
person who paid the fees or other compensation; (5) If the attorney has not
received any attorney's fees or other compensation for services provided in
connection with the claim giving rise to the petition or with the preparation
of the petition, whether the attorney expects to receive any fees or other
compensation for these services, and, if so, the amounts and the identity of
the person who is expected to pay the fees or other compensation; and (6) The
terms of any agreement between the petitioner and the attorney.” (CRC Rule
7.951.)
The petitioner and claimant
must attend the hearing on the petition unless the court for good cause orders
otherwise. (CRC Rule 7.952, subd. (a).)
In all cases
under Code of Civil Procedure section 372 or Probate Code sections 3600-3601,
unless the court has approved the fee agreement in advance, the court must use
a reasonable fee standard when approving and allowing the amount of attorney's
fees payable from money or property paid or to be paid for the benefit of a
minor or a person with a disability.
The court
must give consideration to the terms of any representation agreement made
between the attorney and the representative of the minor or person with a
disability and must evaluate the agreement based on the facts and circumstances
existing at the time the agreement was made, except where the attorney and the
representative of the minor or person with a disability contemplated that the
attorney's fee would be affected by later events.
(CRC Rule 7.955, subd.
(a)(1)–(2).)
Plaintiff Cindy Lucrecia Gonzalez
brings this petition to approve a minor’s compromise on behalf of claimant
Arlene Gonzalez-Vargas. The petition is based on a settlement between
Plaintiffs and Defendants Louis Sprague and Defendant in Intervention Farmers
Insurance Corporation.
The gross settlement amount is
$1 million. (Petition at p. 3.) Claimant is to receive a gross payment from
this amount of $250,000, from which shall be deducted $62,500.00 in attorney
fees, a 25% apportionment. (Petition at p. 6.) The net amount of $187,500.00 is
to be invested in a single-premium deferred annuity, subject to withdrawal upon
order of the court. (Petition at p. 8.) The costs are being borne by the adult
plaintiffs, who are likewise paying a greater 45% contingency fee on their own
recovery. (Castelblanco Decl ¶ 13(c).) The petition is supported by the
declaration of Cindy Lucrecia Gonzalez and Plaintiffs’ counsel Eric
Castelblanco, who describes the work performed in this case, the apportionment
of the settlement, and the basis for the attorney fees sought. (Castelblanco
Decl. ¶¶ 5–13.) 
Plaintiffs have shown good
cause for approval of the compromise presented. The apportionment of the
settlement to Arlene Gonzalez-Vargas and the fees claimed therefrom are
reasonable.
The petition is therefore
GRANTED. 
 
 