 On December 8, 2022, Justice In Aging (“JIA”) filed a Complaint and Petition for Writ of Mandate against the California Department of Healthcare Services (“the Department”).  JIA alleges that it made PRA requests from the Department for “quality measure information regarding the Assisted Living Waiver” for Medicaid (Compl. ¶ 17), but that the Department did not comply.   Subsequently, the Department produced a report from the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (“CMS”).  The report is 34 pages and has redactions for only about 9 sentences that relate to the Department’s new MedCompass system.   The Department contends that the redactions are proper because “[t]he finalized CMS Report that the Department produced on March 20, 2023, was written by CMS for internal use by the Department. (McKibben Decl, ¶ 7.) Though the vast majority of the Report is appropriate for production in response to a PRA request, it was not written as a ‘public-facing’ document. As a result, the report includes certain discussions of the Department’s internal system architecture that might be compromising if released publicly. In particular, the Department has identified certain brief passages that, in context, provide potentially exploitable information regarding how its internal systems interact. (Ibid.) Specifically, revealing this information increases the risk that bad actors may be able to bypass the Department’s system security and either hijack the system or steal beneficiary data.” The Department states that the redactions are meant “to protect information security records pursuant to [Gov. Code] Section 7929.210. Even if the Court determines that Section 7929.210 is inapplicable to the redacted portions of the CMS Report, the Department can nevertheless demonstrate that the public interest in nondisclosure of the redacted passages outweighs the public interest in disclosure pursuant to Section 7922.000.”JIA argues that the redacted information has not been described sufficiently; the redactions do not relate to an “information security record”; and any security concerns are speculative, while the public would benefit greatly from knowing how MedCompass works.   Gov. Code § 7929.210(a) states that “nothing in this division requires the disclosure of an information security record of a public agency, if, on the facts of the particular case, disclosure of that record would reveal vulnerabilities to, or otherwise increase the potential for an attack on, an information technology system of a public agency.”Gov. Code § 7922.000 states, “An agency shall justify withholding any record by demonstrating that the record in question is exempt under express provisions of this division, or that on the facts of the particular case the public interest served by not disclosing the record clearly outweighs the public interest served by disclosure of the record.”The Court has reviewed the unredacted report and finds that the redactions are proper in that they relate to information that poses a security risk.  The redacted portions relate to how the MedCompass system interacts and connects with other systems.  In the Court’s view, this information could be exploited by hackers to obtain patient information.  Further, it is not apparent that the public would benefit greatly from knowing exactly how the Department’s internal system communicates with other interfaces.  For these reasons, the Department has shown that the “the public interest served by not disclosing the record clearly outweighs the public interest served by disclosure of the record.”  (Gov. Code § 7922.000.)The Department to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 