




Background and procedural history
 
            On October 14, 2022, Plaintiff
Jamilah Duncan (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint for (1.) partition of real
property by sale (246 E 135th St.), (2.) battery, (3.) negligence, (4.)
intentional infliction of emotional distress, and (5.) negligent infliction of
emotional distress.
 
            Now,
Defendants’ counsel – Steffanie Stelnick of the Law Offices of Steffanie
Stelnick – seeks to be relieved as counsel of record as to both Defendants. No
opposition was filed.
 
            The
motions to be relieved as counsel are granted.   
 
Discussion
 
            An attorney is entitled to withdraw
upon the consent of the client, or without that consent if approved by the
court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 284; Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) In the latter case, counsel must make a motion to be
relieved as attorney of record.  The
motion must be made using mandatory forms: Notice of Motion and Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel – Civil (MC-051), Declaration (MC-052), and Proposed Order
(MC-053). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (a), (b), (e).) 
 
            The declaration accompanying the
motion to be relieved as counsel must state “in general terms and without
compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1).” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (b).)
 
            The notice to the client must be
done by personal service, electronically, or mail. If it is done via mail under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a declaration
confirming the service address to be the most current residence or that it is
the client’s last known address, and the attorney has been unable to locate a
more current address. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (d)(1)(A)-(B).) 
 
            Here, Attorney Stelnick has complied with the Rules of Court by filing all the
appropriate forms (MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053). She has also submitted a supporting
declaration providing an adequate explanation for why she is moving to be
relieved as counsel; she asserts that there are irreconcilable differences that have resulted in a breakdown
of the attorney client relationship.
 
However, Form MC-052 indicates that notice was provided to Defendants
via mail and her clients’ addresses were confirmed by “LexisNexis.” It is
unclear whether this is an adequate means of confirmation; the Court will hear
from counsel on how specifically the addresses were verified. 
 
Lastly, trial in this matter has not yet been set, and the
next hearing is for a Case Management Conference, set for January 25, 2024.
Thus, no prejudice will result from granting these motions.    
 
Upon a satisfactory showing that the verification of her
clients’ addresses was reasonably likely to ensure notice, the Court will grant
the motions to be relieved as counsel.  