  Case Number:  22VECV00914    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




  Creditors Adjustment Bureau, Inc.,
 
        
  Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
         Mirko Pavlovich a/k/a Mirko S
  Pavlovich a/k/a Miki Pavlovich d/b/a Pavlovich Construction Co
        
  Defendant.


 
 
   Case Number             Department
   22VECV00914            107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  RULING: Motion for Terminating Sanctions



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:  Motion for terminating sanctions is Denied; Motion
for Monetary sanctions is Granted 
 
I. BACKGROUND
Defendant Mirko
Pavlovich a/k/a Mirko S Pavlovich a/k/a Miki Pavlovich d/b/a Pavlovich
Construction Co (“Defendant”) entered into written workers’ compensation
insurance agreements (the “Agreements”) with non-party State Compensation
Insurance Fund (“Plaintiff’s Assignor”) in which Plaintiff’s Assignor agreed to
provide workers’ compensation insurance to Defendant under policy number 9107037-17
for the period of July 22, 2017 through January 17, 2018 and policy number 9258320-19
for the period of August 1, 2019 through October 14, 2019 and Defendant agreed
to pay insurance premiums to Plaintiff’s Assignor therefor. (Complaint pp.
1–3.) Defendant breached the Agreements by failing to pay insurance premiums
after the conclusion of each policy period and as of the filing of the
Complaint, still owed amounts due thereunder. (Id. at p. 3.) Plaintiff’s
Assignor assigned the claims brought in this suit to plaintiff Creditor’s
Adjustment Bureau, Inc. (“Plaintiff”).
 
On July 1, 2022,
Plaintiff initiated this lawsuit by filing a complaint (the “Complaint”)
alleging causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) open book account,
(3) account stated, and (4) reasonable value.
 
On November 15,
2022, Plaintiff served discovery requests on Defendant. (Motion p. 1.) 
 
On June 1, 2023,
Plaintiff and Defendant participated in an informal discovery conference.
 
On November 17,
2023, Plaintiff filed two motions to compel further: (1) a motion to compel
further responses to special interrogatories along with a request for monetary
sanctions, and (2) a motion to compel further responses to its request for
production of documents along with a request for monetary sanctions. On January
16, 2024, Plaintiff’s first motion to compel further was granted and sanctions therefor
were awarded to Plaintiff against Defendant and Defendant’s counsel (“Defendant’s
Counsel”) in a reduced amount. Defendant was ordered to serve further responses
within 20 days and Defendant and Defendant’s Counsel were ordered to pay
sanctions within 20 days. Three days later, on January 19, 2024, Plaintiff’s
second motion to compel further was also granted and sanctions therefor were
awarded to Plaintiff against Defendant and Defendant’s Counsel in a reduced
amount. Defendant was ordered to serve further responses within 20 days and
Defendant and Defendant’s Counsel were ordered to pay sanctions within 20 days.
 
On March 19, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the instant motion for terminating sanctions (the “Motion”),
which attaches a declaration by its attorney (the “Aposhian Declaration”). On
March 28, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition (the “Opposition”) to the Motion
along with a declaration by Defendant’s Counsel (“Sina Declaration #1”) and
responses to the discovery requests at issue. On April 4, 2024, Plaintiff
replied to the Opposition. On April 9, 2024, Defendant’s Counsel filed another
declaration (“Sina Declaration #2”).
 
II. PARTIES’ POSITIONS
 

The Motion

 
Plaintiff argues
that “a party’s refusal to reveal material evidence tacitly admits his claim or
defense is without merit” (quoting Puritan Insurance Co. v. Superior Court
(1985) 171 Cal.App.3d 877) and that such rationale “mandates that the sanction
of dismissal be imposed in this case.” (Motion p. 2.) Plaintiff contends that
Defendant is “blatantly refusing to participate in the litigation process” and
that his “continuous non-compliance” is in “deliberate defiance with proper
discovery,” “mandat[ing] the striking of [D]efendant’s answer and the entering
of default against him.” (Id. at p. 3.) It argues that the discovery it seeks
is “essential to the prosecution of this action” but that Defendant “has made
absolutely no effort whatsoever” to comply with this court’s orders that he
produce such discovery. (Id. at p. 3.) Plaintiff concludes by additionally
requesting that monetary sanctions be awarded to it against Defendant and
Defendant’s Counsel. (Id. at p. 4.)
 
The Aposhian
Declaration explains that the attorney’s fees and costs incurred in bringing
and defending the Motion total to $1,572.75, which Plaintiff seeks in sanctions
against Defendant and Defendant’s Counsel. (Aposhian Decl. ¶ 7.)
 

The
     Opposition

 
Defendant argues
that although a court may make an order for terminating sanctions, such
sanctions should be used sparingly, only when lesser sanctions would not be
effective, and not to punish. (Opposition p. 2.) Defendant contends that he
“made good-faith efforts to comply with the Court orders” but that Defendant’s
Counsel faced “major obstacles” with his health. (Id. at p. 3.) Defendant then
contends that he provided compliant discovery responses prior to the hearing on
the Motion. (Ibid.) Finally, Defendant contends that both his and Defendant’s
Counsel’s ability to pay sanctions are currently “hampered,” and that
non-payment of sanctions is not a basis for awarding terminating sanctions.
(Ibid.)
 
Sina Declaration
#1 explains that Defendant’s Counsel was seriously injured in early February
2024 and was compelled to spend the next few weeks recovering under
professional medical direction and attaches evidence thereto. (Sina Decl. #1
¶¶ 1–3.) Defendant’s Counsel suggests that “at the very least,” the Motion
should be denied and Sina Declaration #1 should be accepted under California
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b). (Id. at ¶ 5.)
 

The Reply

 
Plaintiff argues
that Defendant’s discovery responses attached to the Opposition are unverified
and therefore should not be considered. (Reply p. 2.) Plaintiff further argues
that the filing of verified responses prior to the hearing does not render the
Motion moot as their legal sufficiency and timeliness should still be
considered by the court. (Id. at p. 3.) Plaintiff reminds the court that the
discovery responses are several months overdue as Defendant has been in
possession of the discovery requests at issue since November 2022. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff alleges repeated attempts and communications with Defendant’s Counsel
to try to get the discovery responses before the filing of the Motion but that
Defendant “plainly made a conscious decision to adopt a bad faith approach to
the discovery.” (Id. at pp. 3–4.) Plaintiff contends that “Defendant’s last
round of discovery responses remain mostly unchanged” despite Plaintiff’s
repeated emphasis on the “critical importance of meaningful responses” in
informal efforts to reach a resolution. (Id. at p. 4.) Plaintiff explains that
Defendant’s discovery responses lack sufficient detail, which was specifically
sought, or do not correctly answer the interrogatory posed to him, “which
further indicates that Defendant has undertaken absolutely no effort whatsoever
to properly review and respond to the discovery.” (Id. at pp. 5–6.) Defendant’s
responses to the document requests similarly are inadequate as they remain
largely unchanged other than the removal of objections. (Id. at p. 6.) “Defendant
has willfully refused to provide anything meaningful in connection with either
policy notwithstanding this Court’s orders and extensive efforts undertaken by
Plaintiff.” (Id. at p. 7.) Plaintiff finally argues that the case Defendant
cites for its proposition that non-payment of sanctions does not warrant
terminating sanctions is distinguishable here because in this case, Defendant
has also failed to provide adequate, verified, timely discovery responses.
(Ibid.) Plaintiff also suggests that Defendant’s lack of adequate responses is
indicative of his lack of any viable defense. (Id. at pp. 5, 8.)
 
III. DISCUSSION
 
The court may impose a terminating sanction by an
order striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030,
subd. (d)(1).) “The trial court may order a terminating sanction for discovery
abuse ‘after considering the totality of the circumstances: [the] conduct of
the party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to the
propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain the
discovery.’” (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 377, 390.)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
“The discovery statutes evince an incremental approach
to discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the
ultimate sanction of termination.” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc.¿(2009)
174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992; see J.W. v. Watchtower Bible and Tract Society of
New York, Inc.¿(2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 1142, 1169.) If a lesser sanction
fails to curb misuse, a greater sanction is warranted. (Doppes, supra,
174 Cal.App.4th at 992.) “Discovery sanctions ‘should be appropriate to the
dereliction, and should not exceed what is required to protect the interests of
the party entitled to but denied discovery.’” (Ibid.) “But where a
violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery
rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Id.,
quoting Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th
262, 279–280); Creed-21 v. City of Wildomar¿(2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 690,
702, quoting Doppes and Mileikowsky.)¿¿¿ 
 
For example, the Third District held that terminating
sanctions were warranted when a party repeatedly failed to propound adequate
discovery responses, even after the court imposed monetary sanctions. (Liberty
Mutual Fire Ins. Co. v. LcL Administrations, Inc. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th
1093.) In Mileikowsky, the Court of Appeal held that five motions to
compel created a record “replete with evidence of [appellant’s] failures to
answer discovery requests.” (Mileikowsky, supra, 128 Cal.App.4th
at 279–280.) 
¿ 
The court should consider the totality of the
circumstances, including conduct of the party to determine if the actions were
willful, the determent to the propounding party, and the number of formal and
informal attempts to obtain discovery. (Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77
Cal.App.4th 1225, 1246.) Terminating sanctions should not be ordered lightly,
but are justified where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse,
and there is evidence that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance
with the discovery rules. (Doppes, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at p. 992.)¿ 
¿ 
Before any sanctions may be imposed the court must
make an express finding that there has been a willful failure of the party to
serve the required discovery responses. (Fairfield v. Superior Court for Los
Angeles County (1966) 246 Cal.App.2d 113, 118.) The party who failed to
comply with discovery obligations has the burden of showing that the failure
was not willful. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 788; Cornwall
v. Santa Monica Dairy Co. (1977) 66 Cal.App.3d 250, 252-253.)¿¿¿ 
 
Defendant’s
further responses to Plaintiff’s discovery requests as ordered by this court
were due on February 7, 2024 and February 11, 2024. Defendant submits with the
Opposition evidence that his primary counsel in this case, Defendant’s Counsel,
was suddenly confronted with serious medical issues shortly before those
deadlines, which could not have been reasonably anticipated or avoided, and
that Defendant’s Counsel did not fully recover from those injuries for a few
weeks. (Sina Decl. ¶¶ 1–3, Exh. A.) Additionally, Plaintiff indicates that
after the February 7 and 11 deadlines had passed, it made only one informal
attempt to contact Defendant on February 14 to inquire about the discovery
responses and the extension Plaintiff extended to Defendant to February 19
would not necessarily have been before Defendant’s Counsel’s recovery from his
injuries. (Reply pp. 3–4.)
 
Given Defendant’s
excuse for the delay in responding to the discovery requests following the
court order and that Defendant attempted to respond to the discovery requests
before the hearing on the Motion, we fail to find that Defendant acted
willfully in not complying with the court orders. We therefore may not impose
terminating sanctions.
 
However, we agree
with Plaintiff that Defendant’s responses from March 28, 2024 remain inadequate
and should be supplemented with substantive responsive responses. Defendant
adequately explains why its responses are late, but now that Defendant’s
Counsel has seemingly fully recovered, Defendant does not explain why its
responses remain inadequate. Thus, further monetary sanctions are warranted. We
find Plaintiff’s attorney’s fees and costs sought to be reasonable.
 
Accordingly, this
court DENIES terminating sanctions and GRANTS monetary sanctions in the amount
of $1,572.75.
 
Dated:             April
11, 2024                                                 _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court