  Case Number:  21STCV46984    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  B  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY
OF LOS ANGELES
 



CLARA ELENA REYES DE FERNANDEZ,
                        Plaintiff,
  
            vs.
 
 

BERBERIAN
   ENTERPRISE, INC.,

                        Defendant.


 
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      
CASE
  NO: 21STCV46984
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT PROVIDENCE LLC dba LA TATACAULTECA‘S MOTION
   FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
Dept.
  B 
DATE:
  NOVEMBER 8, 2024
TIME:  8:30
   A.M.
 
COMPLAINT
  FILED: DECEMBER 27, 2021
TRIAL
  DATE: JANUARY 13, 2025



 
I.      
BACKGROUND  
            On December 27, 2021, Plaintiff
Clara Elena Reyes de Fernandez (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint in the instant
action against Defendants Berberian Enterprises, Inc. dba Jons Markets (“Jons
Markets”) and Does 1 to 50 alleging two causes of action: (1) premises
liability; and (2) negligence. Plaintiff alleges that, on or about January 20,
2020, Plaintiff was a lawful customer at a Jons Marketplace when she stepped in
a puddle of water that had accumulated on the floor, therefore causing
Plaintiff to slip, fall, and sustain injuries.
            On February 10, 2022, Plaintiff
filed an amendment to her complaint identifying Providencia LLC dba La
Tatacaulteca (“Providence”) as Doe 2.
            On May 7, 2024, Defendant filed the
instant motion for summary judgment.
            On June 6, 2024, the matter was
assigned to the Honorable Judge Moskowitz in Department B of Van Nuys
Courthouse East, effective June 24, 2024.
            On October 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed
their opposition.
            On October 25, 2024, Jons Marketplace
also filed an opposition, which Plaintiff joined and incorporated.
            On November 1, 2024, Providence
filed their replies to both oppositions.
 
II.      
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
            Providence moves for summary
judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication on both of Plaintiff’s
causes of action. Providence argues that Plaintiff’s cause of action for
premises liability fails as a matter of law because Providence did not own,
control, or maintain the site of Plaintiff’s injury. (Motion, p. 2:11-14.)
Providence also argues that Plaintiff’s second cause of action for negligence
liability fails as a matter of law because there is no evidence that Providence
was negligent in its conduct or a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s
injuries. (Ibid. at 15-18.)
 
III.      
LEGAL
STANDARDS 
            In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, the Court must apply a three-step analysis: (1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has met his or
her initial burden; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue. (Hinesley v. Oakshade
Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) “[T]he initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no
merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action .
. . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of
action.” (Cal. Code of Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).)
            A moving defendant may satisfy the
initial burden to show that one or more elements cannot be established by
“presenting evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff's
cause of action or by relying on the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery
responses to show that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably
obtain, evidence to establish that element.” (Schmidt v. Citibank, N.A.
(2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 1109, 1119; Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 856 [It is insufficient for the defendant to merely
point out the absence of evidence.]; Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108
Cal.App.4th 884, 891.) The defendant must present evidence… showing that
plaintiff does not have and cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or
her claim.” (Ibid.)
            Unless and until a defendant meets
that burden, the plaintiff has no burden to present controverting evidence. (Consumer
Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 454, 468 [“There is no
obligation on the opposing party . . . to establish anything by affidavit
unless and until the moving party has by affidavit stated facts establishing
every element . . . necessary to sustain a judgment in his favor.”].) If a
defendant fails to meet that burden, summary judgment must be denied, even if
the plaintiff fails to file an opposition and fails to proffer any evidence.
On
the other hand, if the defendant “has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP § 437c(p)(2).) The
plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials in its pleadings to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead “shall set forth
the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to
the cause of action.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary
judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)     
 
IV.      
DISCUSSION 
Request
for Judicial Notice
Providence’s
May 7, 2024, request for judicial notice of Plaintiff’s complaint is denied.
Judicial notice of the Court’s own records and case file is unnecessary and
redundant as the Court can always review the case at hand.
 
Evidentiary
Objections
Plaintiff’s October 23, 2024,
evidentiary objections to the declaration of Pedro Torres (“Pedro”) are
overruled. Pedro is a delivery driver for Providence and provides sufficient
foundation for the statements he sets forth. Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections
to the declaration of Pablo Torres (“Pablo”) are overruled for the same. Pablo
is the owner of Providence and provides sufficient foundation for the
statements he sets forth.
            Providence’s November 1, 2024,
evidentiary objections to the declaration of Todd Sankey (“Sankey”) and the
surveillance video and report attached thereto are sustained. Sankey was hired
by Jons Marketplace’s counsel to conduct surveillance in determination of
whether the buckets used inside La Tapachulteca were washed or rinsed
throughout the course of a day. (Sankey Decl. ¶ 2.) On October 18, 2024, Sankey
recorded 11 hours of footage of La Tapachulteca’s wash station. (Ibid.
at ¶ 4.)  Based on this footage, Sankey
compiled a report concluding that five-gallon buckets are routinely rinsed at
the wash station. (Ibid.; Exh. C [Sankey report].) The footage and
report are wholly irrelevant. Circumstances inside La Tapachulteca more than
4.5 years after Plaintiff’s incident have no probative value to the issues
presented.
 
Defendant’s
Burden
            Providence meets their initial
burden. 
Providence
argues that Plaintiff’s cause of action for premises liability fails as a
matter of law because Providence did not own, control, or maintain the site of
Plaintiff’s injury. (Motion, p. 2:11-14.) Providence also argues that
Plaintiff’s second cause of action for negligence liability fails as a matter
of law because there is no evidence that Providence was negligent in its
conduct or a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s injuries. (Ibid.
at 15-18.)
 
Premises
Liability
            To succeed on a claim for premises
liability, plaintiff must show that: (1) defendant was the owner, occupant, or
lessor of the subject premises; (2) defendant was negligent in the use,
maintenance, or management of the subject premises; and (3) defendant’s
negligence was the cause of injury, damage, loss or harm to plaintiff. (Brooks
v. Eugene Burger Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1611, 1619.) “A
defendant cannot be held liable for a defective or dangerous condition of
property which defendant did not own, possess, or control.” (Hamilton v.
Gage Bowl (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1706, 1711.) A limited right to control the
premises, such as a leasehold, may be sufficient for establishing premises
liability. (Southland Corp. v. Superior Court (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d 656,
667.)
            Here, Providence provides evidence
that they were not the owner, occupant, or lessor of the area where Plaintiff
suffered injury. Plaintiff slipped and fell on a puddle near the exit of Jons
Marketplace. (Providence Separate Statement of Facts “PR-SSF” Nos. 8 and 9;
Sanchez Decl. Exh. 3 Nos. 17, 29, and 35 [Plaintiff’s response to Providence’s
Special Interrogatories, Set One].) In January 2020, at the time of Plaintiff’s
fall, there was only one customer entrance/exit at the subject premises. (PR-SSF
No. 11; Sanchez Decl. Exh. 2 22:7-22 [Cesar E. Sanchez deposition].) The
portion of the Subject Premises licensed           
by Providence is on the opposite side of the customer entrance/exit, with
approximately 25 feet of Jons Marketplace sales floor between the two. (PR-SSF
Nos. 13 and 14; Pablo Torres Decl. ¶¶ 10 and 12.) In January 2020, Providence
did not have control over the repairs or management of the area near the
customer entrance/exit. (PR-SSF No. 16; Pablo Torres Decl. ¶ 13.)
            Therefore, Providence sets forth
evidence that they were not the owner, occupant, or lessor of the area where
Plaintiff slipped and fell, defeating Plaintiff’s claim for premises liability
as a matter of law.
 
Negligence
Liability
To
succeed on a claim for negligence, plaintiff must show that: (1) defendant owed
a legal duty to plaintiff to use due care; (2) defendant breached that duty;
(3) defendant’s breach of duty caused plaintiff’s harm; and (4) plaintiff suffered
damages as a result. (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006)
137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318.) Such duty can include avoidance of causing an
unreasonable risk of injury. (McGarry v. Sax (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 983,
994.) “Generally, whether a defendant was negligent constitutes a question of
fact for the jury . . . However, where reasonable jurors could draw only one
conclusion from the evidence presented, lack of negligence may be determined as
a matter of law, and summary judgment granted.” (Federico v. Superior Court (1997)
59 Cal.App.4th 1207, 1214.) 
            Here, Providence sets forth facts
showing that they did not create an unreasonable risk of injury. On the morning
of Plaintiff’s incident, Pedro Torres, a delivery driver for Providence, made a
delivery to the La Tapachulteca restaurant located at the Subject Premises. (PR-SSF
No. 17; Pedro Decl. ¶ 4.) Pedro carried dry ingredients from his delivery truck
to La Tapachulteca in white buckets. (PR-SSF Nos. 18. and 19; Pedro Decl. ¶¶ 6
and 7.) There was no water or liquid in the buckets. (PR-SSF No. 20; Pedro Decl.
¶ 8.) Pedro walked through the customer entrance/exit and to the La
Tapachulteca restaurant. (PR-SSF No. 21; Pedro Decl. ¶ 21.) After unloading the
ingredients, Pedro pushed a cart, loaded with the empty buckets, through the
customer entrance/exit. (PR-SSF Nos. 22 and 23; Pedro Decl. ¶¶ 10 and 11.)
Pedro did not see any water or liquid on the floor of Jons Marketplace on
January 20, 2020. (PR-SSF No. 24; Pedro Decl. ¶ 12.)
            Therefore, Providence sets forth
facts showing they did not create an unreasonable risk of injury and meets
their initial burden.
 
Plaintiff’s
Burden
            The burden now shifts to opposing parties to show a
triable issue of fact as to Providence’s ownership, control, or maintenance of
the subject premises, or negligence creating an unreasonable risk of injury.
 
Premises
Liability
Plaintiff
and Jons Marketplace argue that Providence exercised ownership or control over
the area of Plaintiff’s injury because (1) the License Agreement between Jons
Marketplace and Providence notes that the restaurant is in an undifferentiated
part of the building used for the grocery store and (2) Providence “regularly
used the area for their use.” (Plaintiff’s Response to Providence’s Separate
Statement of Facts “PR-PSSF” Nos. 2 and 5; Berman Decl. Exh. 3 at 26:25-27:8
[Pedro Torres deposition]; Berman Decl. Exh. 5 at 31:20-32:8 [Pablo Tapia
deposition].)
“[T]he
duty to take affirmative action for the protection of individuals coming onto
one’s property ‘is grounded in the possession of the premises and the attendant
right to control and manage the premises.’ [Citation.] Without the ‘crucial
element’ of control over the subject premises [citation], no duty to exercise
reasonable care to prevent injury on such property can be found.” (Gray v.
America West Airlines, Inc. (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 76, 81.)
Here,
opposing parties fail to set forth facts showing that Providence exercised
control over the area of Plaintiff’s injury for purposes of premises liability.
Exhibit A to the License Agreement between Providence and Jons Marketplace
shows Providence’s leased portion of the premises. (Pablo Torres Decl. Exh. 1
[License Agreement].) This map fails to demonstrate that Providence leased a
portion of the premises near the customer entrance/exit. To defeat summary
judgment, the plaintiff may
not merely rely on allegations or denials in its pleadings to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists, but instead “shall set forth the
specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the
cause of action.” (Consumer Cause, Inc., supra, 91 Cal.App.4th at 468.)
Here, opposing parties base their claim of Providence’s control on the fact
that the License Agreement does not specifically address the subject area.
However, this assertion is not a specific fact for purposes of summary
judgment. Similarly, opposing parties’ claim that Providence exercised control
over the subject area because they regularly used the customer entrance/exit
for entering and exiting the premises is not persuasive. An individual or
entity does not exercise control over an area simply because they regularly use
the area. 
Accordingly, opposing parties fail
to meet their burden. Providence’s motion for summary adjudication on
Plaintiff’s claim for premises liability is granted.
 
Negligence
Liability
            Opposing parties argue that
Providence created an unreasonable risk of injury because, according to January
20, 2020, surveillance footage, Pedro Torres can be seen stopping the cart
containing the subject buckets over the subject area, walking away for a few
minutes, then returning and standing the buckets up vertically. (PR-PSSF No.
23; Exh. 3 at 14:14-15:13 [Pedro Torres deposition].) Additionally, opposing
parties dispute that the buckets were dry since Pedro lacks personal knowledge
as to whether the buckets were washed or rinsed while not in his possession. (See
Plaintiff’s Opposition p. 2:16-21.) However, opposing parties fail to
provide any evidence that the subject buckets were wet or contained liquid on
the day of Plaintiff’s incident. The only evidence opposing parties offer is
inadmissible video footage showing buckets being washed at La Tapachulteca on
October 18, 2024, over 4.5 years after the underlying incident. Opposing
parties also rely on Pedro’s repositioning of the buckets as a sign of negligence.
Again, to defeat summary judgment, Plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations
or denials in their pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact
exists, but instead “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable
issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.” (Consumer Cause,
Inc., supra, 91 Cal.App.4th at 468.) Here, opposing parties fail to set
forth specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to
whether Providence acted negligently.
            Therefore, Plaintiff fails to meet
their burden as to their second cause of action against Providence.
 
V.      
CONCLUSION
            No triable issue of material fact
exists as to Providence’s control or negligent conduct relating to Plaintiff’s
injuries. Accordingly, Providence’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice.   
 
 
Dated: November 7,
 2024                               __________________________________
                                                                                                Hon. Karen Moskowitz
                                                                                                Judge
of the Superior Court
            