 Case Number:  21STCV43351    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving and opposing papers, the Court rules as follows.  BACKGROUND  On  November 24, 2021, Plaintiff Ja Vian Michelle Jones  (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant Walmart Inc. (“Walmart”) and  Does 1-100 for negligence and premises liability.  On  January 13, 2022, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Walmart and  Does 1-100 for negligence.  On  March 9, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to add Defendant Sandstone  Properties, L.P. (“Sandstone”) as Doe 1.   On  June 27, 2022, Sandstone filed an answer and a cross-complaint against Roes  1-200 for breach of contract–additional  insurance, express indemnity, partial indemnity on a comparative fault basis,  implied indemnity, comparative contribution, total equitable indemnity,  apportionment, and declaratory relief.  On  September 12, 2022, Walmart filed an answer to Plaintiff’s first amended  complaint.  On  October 3, 2022, Sandstone amended its cross-complaint to include  Cross-Defendant James Michael Bennett as Roe 1.  On  June 5, 2023, Walmart filed an offer to compromise with Plaintiff under Code of  Civil Procedure section 998.  On  June 23, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to add Defendant Securitas  Security Services USA, Inc. (“Securitas”) as Doe 2.  On June 30, 2023, Plaintiff amended the  complaint to add Defendants Reliable Properties as Doe 3 and Reliable General  Partner as Doe 4.  On  July 28, 2023, the Court granted Sandstone’s motion for summary judgment.  On August 24, 2023, the Court entered judgment  for Sandstone.  On August 28, 2023,  Sandstone served notice of entry of judgment.  On  September 12, 2023, Sandstone filed a memorandum of costs.  On  September 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion to tax costs to be heard on  December 12, 2023. On November 29, 2023, Sandstone filed an opposition.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Plaintiff  requests that the Court tax or reduce the $3,200 cost item for expert witness fees.  Sandstone  requests that the Court deny the motion.  LEGAL STANDARD  “Except  as otherwise expressly provided by statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a  matter of right to recover costs in any action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §  1032, subd. (b).)  “ ‘Prevailing  party’ includes the party with a net monetary recovery, a defendant in whose  favor a dismissal is entered, a defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant  obtains any relief, and a defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not  recover any relief against that defendant.  If any party recovers other than monetary  relief and in situations other than as specified, the ‘prevailing party’ shall  be as determined by the court, and under those circumstances, the court, in its  discretion, may allow costs or not and, if allowed, may apportion costs between  the parties on the same or adverse sides pursuant to rules adopted under  Section 1034.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032,  subd. (a)(4).)  “A  prevailing party who claims costs must serve and file a memorandum of costs  within 15 days after the date of service of the notice of entry of judgment or  dismissal by the clerk under Code of Civil Procedure section 664.5 or the date  of service of written notice of entry of judgment or dismissal, or within 180  days after entry of judgment, whichever is first. The memorandum of costs must  be verified by a statement of the party, attorney, or agent that to the best of  his or her knowledge the items of cost are correct and were necessarily  incurred in the case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1700.)  Code  of Civil Procedure section 1033.5, subdivisions (a) and (b), list recoverable  and non-recoverable costs.  Subdivision (c)(4) of the statute provides:  "Items not mentioned in this section and items assessed upon application  may be allowed or denied in the court's discretion."  Code  of Civil Procedure section 998, subdivision (c)(1), provides:  “(c) (1) If an offer made by a defendant is not  accepted and the plaintiff fails to obtain a more favorable judgment or award,  the plaintiff shall not recover his or her postoffer costs and shall pay the  defendant’s costs from the time of the offer. In addition, in any action or  proceeding other than an eminent domain action, the court or arbitrator, in its  discretion, may require the plaintiff to pay a reasonable sum to cover  postoffer costs of the services of expert witnesses, who are not regular employees  of any party, actually incurred and reasonably necessary in either, or both,  preparation for trial or arbitration, or during trial or arbitration, of the  case by the defendant.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 998, subd.  (c)(1).)  “The  losing party may dispute any or all of the items in the prevailing party’s  costs memorandum by a motion to strike or tax costs.”  (R. Fairbanks et al., Cal. Practice Guide:  Civil Trials and Evidence (Rutter 2022) ¶ 17:517, p. 17-94 (Cal. Practice  Guide: Civil Trials).)  “If the items [in  the memorandum of costs] appear on their face to be proper charges, the  verified memorandum of costs is prima facie evidence of their propriety, and  the burden is on the party seeking to tax costs to show that they were not  reasonable or necessary.”  (Id., ¶  17:526, p. 17-96.)  “On the other hand,  items that are properly objected to are put in issue, and the burden of proof  is on the party claiming them as costs.”   (Ibid.)  DISCUSSION  Plaintiff  challenges Sandstone’s request for $3,200 in expert fees and costs, which is  based on Sandstone’s Code of Civil Procedure section 998 offer to Plaintiff on  June 7, 2023.  According to Plaintiff,  Sandstone offered to pay Plaintiff $20,000, with each side to bear their own  costs and attorney’s fees.  Plaintiff,  however, had demanded $200,000.  A.      Reasonableness of section 998 offer  Plaintiff  argues the offer of $20,000 was not reasonable because it was a token or  nominal offer in light of Sandstone’s potential liability to Plaintiff.  Plaintiff  asserts that “[t]here was no reason to believe that Defendant’s 998 offer would  be accepted given that the medical costs and expenses accrued by Plaintiff in  preparation for trial were significantly greater than the 998 offered by  Defendant” and “Plaintiff believed in good faith that [Sandstone] would be held  liable for the injury.”  (Motion p. 5.)  “The  purpose of [Code of Civil Procedure section 998] is to encourage the settlement  of litigation without trial.  To  effectuate this purpose, a [section 998] offer must be made in good faith.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice  Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 12:705, 12(ll)-62 (Cal.  Practice Guide: Civil Procedure).)  “A ‘token’  or ‘nominal’ offer may not satisfy the ‘good faith’ requirement and so may not  be the basis for an award of expert witness fees and costs penalties under  [section 998, subdivision (c)].”  (Ibid.)  “For  an award of expert witness fees and costs under [section 998, subdivision (c)],  a pretrial offer ‘must be realistically reasonable in the circumstances of the  particular case.’  It must carry with it  some reasonable prospect of acceptance.  ‘Normally,  a token or nominal offer will not satisfy this good faith requirement . . .  unless it is absolutely clear that no reasonable possibility exists that the  defendant will be held liable.’ “  (Cal.  Practice Guide: Civil Procedure, supra, ¶ 12:707, p. 12(ll)-63, quoting Wear  v. Calderon (1981) 121 Cal.App.3d 818, 821.)  “If  defendant prevails at trial, or the verdict is less than defendant’s [section 998]  offer, that fact constitutes prima facie evidence that the offer was reasonable.  The burden is therefore on the offeree to  prove the offer was in ‘bad faith.’”  (Cal.  Practice Guide: Civil Procedure, supra, ¶ 12:710,  p. 12(ll)-64.)  “Each case is decided  on its own facts as of the time the offer was made.”  (Id., ¶ 12:712, p. 12(ll)-65.) Citing Plaintiff's discovery responses, Sandstone  argues the $20,000 section 998 offer was reasonable because, at the time of the  offer, Plaintiff had identified $17,586.50 in medical expenses relating to the  incident.  The  Court finds that Sandstone’s $20,000 offer was reasonable for purposes of Code  of Civil Procedure section 998.  B.       Identity and status of expert  Plaintiff  asserts that Sandstone is not entitled to expert fees because the experts --Hubert Byrne and Kevin Garcia -- were employees of Sandstone and Walmart.  (See Code Civ.  Proc., § 998, subd. (c)(1) [“If an offer made by a defendant is not accepted  and the plaintiff fails to obtain a more favorable judgment or award, the  plaintiff shall not recover his or her postoffer costs and shall pay the  defendant’s costs from the time of the offer. In addition, in any action or  proceeding other than an eminent domain action, the court or arbitrator, in its  discretion, may require the plaintiff to pay a reasonable sum to cover  postoffer costs of the services of expert witnesses, who are not regular  employees of any party, actually incurred and reasonably necessary in either,  or both, preparation for trial or arbitration, or during trial or arbitration,  of the case by the defendant”].) Sandstone  responds that it did not incur any expert fees related to employees’  declarations.  Instead, it is seeking  expert fees based the work of Sandstone’s retained neurological expert, Dr.  Michael E. Gold.  Sandstone retained Dr.  Gold to each review Plaintiff’s records and to perform an examination of  Plaintiff.  Dr. Gold billed $6,400 for  his work prior to the hearing on Sandstone’s motion for summary judgment.  Sandstone and Walmart split these costs,  making Sandstone responsible for $3,200, the amount claimed in Sandstone’s memorandum of costs.  Sandstone has attached  supporting paperwork to its opposition.  The  Court finds that Sandstone is not seeking expert fees based on employee  declarations.  C.      Explanation of the amount requested  Last,  Plaintiff argues that Sandstone has not provided information in Section 8b of  the memorandum of costs worksheet supporting the $3,200 amount it claims for  expert witness fees.  In its opposition to Plaintiff's motion, Sandstone has provided an amended memorandum of costs and an invoice from Dr. Gold that contain the necessary information.  The  Court finds that Sandstone has provided adequate information to support the request  for post-offer expert witness costs.            CONCLUSION            The Court DENIES Plaintiff Ja Vian Michelle Jones’s motion to tax or strike Defendant Sandstone  Properties, L.P.’s memorandum of costs.            The Court enters $11,966.75  in costs on the judgment for Defendant  Sandstone Properties, L.P.  Defendant  is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file a proof of service with the  Court within five days.