 Case Number:  22STCV07898    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
March 3, 2022, Plaintiffs Lucia Castano and Dan Abir filed this action against
Defendants Kylie Arden Brown, Amber Brown, and Does
1-50 for negligence, negligence per se, and loss of consortium. 
On
May 4, 2022, Defendants Kylie Arden Brown and Amber Brown (“Defendants”) filed
an answer.   
On
July 7, 2023, the Court dismissed Plaintiff Dan Abir with prejudice at his
request. 
On
September 19, 2023, Plaintiff Lucia Castano (“Plaintiff”) filed a motion to compel
the deposition of Paul Kaloostian, M.D., and for sanctions, to be heard on
December 12, 2023. On November 29, 2023, Defendants filed an opposition. On
December 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for January 24, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court order Paul Kaloostian, M.D. to comply with a deposition
subpoena. Plaintiff also requests that the Court impose sanctions of $5,432.50
on Defendants. 
Defendants
request that the Court deny the motion and award Defendants $2,000.00 in
sanctions. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A
party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party to the action may
obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or deposition subpoena
for production of business records. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010.)  A deposition subpoena may command the
attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the production of business
records, other documents, electronically stored information, and tangible
things. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.) The Court may order a third party to
comply with a deposition subpoena upon any terms or condition that the court
declares. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.480 provides in part: 
“(a) If a deponent fails to answer any question or to
produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production. 
“(b) This motion shall be made no later than 60 days
after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(c) Notice of this motion shall be given to all
parties and to the deponent either orally at the examination, or by subsequent
service in writing. If the notice of the motion is given orally, the deposition
officer shall direct the deponent to attend a session of the court at the time
specified in the notice. 
* * * 
“(i) If the court determines that the answer or
production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be
given or the production be made on the resumption of the deposition. 
“(j) The court shall impose
a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel an answer or production, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subds. (a), (b), (c), (i), (j).) 
DISCUSSION 
“A
party who [has] submitted to a [Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.220]
medical exam has an unqualified right to depose the examining physician with
regard to the exam; for this purpose work product protection is waived
[citations].  The examiner may be so
deposed even if the examiner is withdrawn (or was never designated) as an
expert witness.”  (Z. Haning et al., Cal.
Practice Guide: Personal Injury (Rutter 2023) ¶ 8:278f, p. 8-88, citing, inter
alia, Kennedy v. Superior Court (Lucky Stores, Inc.) (1998) 64
Cal.App.4th 674, 678-679); see id., ¶ 6:408.6, p. 6-181 [“The examinee
party has the right to depose the examiner with regard to the physical
examination.  This is so whether or not
the examiner is designated as an expert witness for trial by the party who
retained him or her”].) 
On
July 28, 2023, Plaintiff served a deposition notice on Paul
Kaloostian, M.D., who conducted a defense medical examination of Plaintiff
on July 14, 2023. Defendants served objections to the deposition notice.  Dr. Kaloostian did not appear at the August
23, 2023 deposition and Plaintiff took a notice of non-appearance.  Plaintiff then filed this motion to compel
Dr. Kaloostian’s deposition. 
Defendants
argue that they were not required to produce Dr. Kaloostian for a deposition
until after he was designated as an expert witness. 
In her
reply, Plaintiff acknowledges that, “because this motion will be heard after
expert designations, Plaintiff’s request for an order to produce Dr. Kaloostian
for deposition is now moot.”  (Reply p.
3.)  Plaintiff nonetheless asks the Court
to grant her request for monetary sanctions because “she had substantial
justification for filing a motion to compel.” 
(Reply p. 3.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.480, subdivision (j), provides that “The court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (j).)  Here, because the Court is required to deny
the motion as moot, the Court cannot say Defendants have been unsuccessful in opposing Plaintiff's motion.  
However,
the Court notes that Defendants did not cite legal authority supporting their assertion
that they were not required to produce Dr. Kaloostian for a deposition until
they designated him as an expert.  Moreover,
Defendants tested the bounds of zealous advocacy in claiming that Plaintiff “acknowledge[d]”
that the Kennedy decision provided “very weak support” for Plaintiff’s
motion.  (Opposition p. 3.)  Plaintiff merely acknowledged, and refuted, a
potential basis for distinguishing the case. 
The
Court denies the motion as moot and denies both parties’ requests for
sanctions. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES AS MOOT Plaintiff Lucia Castano motion to compel Paul Kaloostian,
M.D.’s deposition. 
The
Court denies Plaintiff Lucia Castano’s request for sanctions. 
The
Court denies the request for sanctions of Defendants Kylie Arden Brown and Amber Brown. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days. 