 Case Number:  21STCV19030    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
May 20, 2021, Plaintiff Vladimir Zagorovskiy (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
(“LACMTA”), City of Los Angeles (“City”), County of Los Angeles (“County”),
California Department of Transportation, Quixote Studios, LLC (“Quixote”), John
Doe 1, John Doe 2, and Does 1-50 for general negligence and motor vehicle tort. 
On
September 23, 2021, the County filed an answer.  On April 26, 2022, the Court dismissed the
County without prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
On October 12, 2021, Quixote filed an answer.  On November 1, 2021, Quixote filed a cross-complaint
against Cross-Defendants LACMTA, County, California Department of Transportation,
and Roes 1-100 for indemnity, contribution and declaratory relief.  On June 8, 2022, Quixote amended the complaint
to include the County as Roe 1.  On July
13, 2022, Quixote amended the complaint to include LACMTA as Roe 2. 
On
October 25, 2021, the Court dismissed the California Department of
Transportation from Plaintiff’s complaint without prejudice at Plaintiff’s
request. 
On
November 9, 2021, the Court dismissed the City from Plaintiff’s complaint
without prejudice at Plaintiff’s request. 
On
August 29, 2022, LACMTA filed an answer to Quixote’s cross-complaint and filed a
cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Quixote and Does 1-25 for
indemnification, apportionment of fault, and contribution.  On September 28, 2022, Quixote filed an answer. 
On
December 1, 2022, the Court struck portions of Plaintiff’s complaint based on
the stipulation of Plaintiff and LACMTA. 
On
December 8, 2022, LACMTA filed an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint. 
On
July 6, 2023, Quixote filed a motion for leave to file amended answers to Plaintiff’s
complaint and LACMTA’s cross-complaint, be heard on December 12, 2023.  No opposition has been filed. 
Trial
is scheduled for March 7, 2024.   
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
Quixote
requests leave to file and serve first amended answers to Plaintiff’s
complaint and LACMTA’s cross-complaint.   
LEGAL STANDARD 
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse
party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or
proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be
made after the time limited by this code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).) 
“Any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 576; see Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) 
“ ‘While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. [Citations.] And it is a rare case
in which “a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.” [Citations.] If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion. [Citations.]’”  (Redevelopment
Agency v. Herrold (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 1024, 1031, quoting Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
“Courts
usually display great liberality in allowing amendments to answers because ‘a
defendant denied leave to amend is permanently deprived of a defense.’”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 6:643, p. 6-189 (Cal.
Practice Guide), quoting Hulsey v. Koehler (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 1150,
1159.) 
“Ordinarily,
the judge will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
deciding whether to grant leave to amend. . . . After leave to amend is
granted, the opposing party will have the opportunity to attack the validity of
the amended pleading.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:644, pp. 6-189
to 6-190.) 
In
addition, “it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the
opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)  “Prejudice exists where the amendment would
result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical evidence, added costs
of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc.”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:656,
p. 6-193.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
In
his complaint, Plaintiff alleges the following: 
On or
about June 8, 2020, at or near Santa Monica Boulevard and Vine Street in Los
Angeles, Plaintiff was a passenger in the
bus of City, County, California Department of Transportation, and John Doe 1, traveling
westbound on Santa Monica Boulevard near Vine Street.  Defendant John Doe 2 was operating his vehicle
eastbound on Santa Monica Boulevard and made a left hand-turn into a driveway
without caution and in an unsafe manner directly in front of Defendant John Doe
1's bus.  As Plaintiff was walking
towards an empty seat on the bus, Defendant John Doe 1 suddenly and without
warning abruptly accelerated and then applied the brakes as the bus was in
motion, causing Plaintiff to fall and sustain serious injuries and damages. 
Plaintiff’s
injuries and damages were caused by the negligence, carelessness and/or
recklessness of LACMTA, County, City, California Department of Transportation, Quixote,
John Doe 1, John Doe 2, and other Doe defendants.  Defendants negligently, wantonly, carelessly,
and/or recklessly entrusted, owned, operated a motor vehicle in an unreasonable
and unsafe manner, causing Plaintiff to sustain injuries and related damages. 
B.   LACMTA’s cross-complaint 
LACMTA’s
cross-complaint alleges that a Quixote truck made an illegal and unsafe left
turn directly in front of LACMTA’s bus as it was pulling away from the bus stop
at Santa Monica Boulevard and Vine Street, causing the bus to stop and causing
Plaintiff, a passenger on the bus, to fall and allegedly sustain injuries. 
C.  
Quixote’s
answers to the complaint and cross-complaint 
In Quixote’s answers to Plaintiff’s complaint and
LACMTA’s cross-complaint, Quixote denied the allegations of the complaint and
cross-complaint and asserted affirmative defenses. 
D.      Quixote’s motion to amend the answers 
Quixote
seeks leave to amend its answers to the complaint and cross-complaint to add an
affirmative defense based on 49 U.S.C. section 30106, commonly known as the
“Graves Amendment.”  According to Quixote,
the Graves Amendment eliminates vicarious liability for non-negligent vehicle
rental companies based solely on ownership. Quixote asserts that its failure to
assert this affirmative defense in its answers was an inadvertent error and allowing
Quixote to add the defense will not prejudice Plaintiff or LACMTA because they have
ample time to conduct discovery before the March 7, 2024 trial date. 
Quixote
filed its answer to Plaintiff’s complaint on October 12, 2021.  Quixote filed its answer to LACMTA’s
cross-complaint on September 28, 2022.  Even if Quixote unreasonably delayed in moving to amend, “it is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the
opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge
Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)  “Prejudice exists where the amendment would
result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical evidence, added costs
of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc.”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:656, p.
6-193.)  
Plaintiff
and LACMTA have not filed oppositions to Quixote’s motion and have not
presented evidence or argument refuting Quixote’s contention that no prejudice
will result from allowing Quixote to amend its answers.  
The
Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion for leave to file amended answers filed by Defendant,
Cross-Complainant, and Cross-Defendant Quixote Studios, LLC. 
Defendant, Cross-Complainant, and Cross-Defendant Quixote
Studios, LLC is ordered to file and serve the first amended answer to the
complaint filed by Plaintiff Vladimir Zagorovskiy within 30 days of the hearing on this motion. 
Defendant,
Cross-Complainant, and Cross-Defendant Quixote Studios, LLC is ordered to file
and serve the first amended answer to the cross-complaint filed by Defendant,
Cross-Defendant, and Cross-Complainant Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority within 30 days of the hearing on this motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days. 