 Case Number:  24TRCV02864    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 November 5, 2024¿ 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   24TRCV02864
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Francisco
Lopez v. Brightview Landscapes, LLC, et al.
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant,
Brightview Landscapes, LLC erroneously sued as Brightview Landscapes, LLP. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiffs, Francisco Lopez
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not
Set 
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to
Compel Arbitration 
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED.  The Court did not consider the Reply declaration in making its tentative
ruling, but would consider continuing the hearing until its next available
date, December 31, 2024, when the Court could consider the defense supplemental
declaration and afford Plaintiff the opportunity to file a sur-reply to address
the new matters raised for the first time by Defendant with its reply.
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Factual¿ 
 
On
August 28, 2024, Plaintiff, Francisco Lopez (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Defendant, Brightview Landscapes LLC and DOES 1 through 50. The
Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Violation of Cal. Gov. Code §
12945.2 (California Family Rights Act); (2) Violation of California Civil Code,
§52.1(Banes Act); (3) Aiding, Abetting, Inciting, Compelling, or Coercing Acts
Forbidden by Cal. Govt. Code §12940(i) (FEHA); (4) Wrongful termination; (5)
Unfair and Unlawful Business Practices; (6) California Worker Adjustment and
Retraining Notification Act (WARN Act); (7) Breach of Contract; (8) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress; (9) Negligent Infliction of Emotional
Distress; (10) Negligence; (11) Violation of Cal. Gov’t. Code §12940(i)
(California Fair Employment and Housing Act) (FEHA); (12) Disability
Discrimination by Association in Violation of FEHA[Cal. Gov't Code § 12926(o)];
and (13) Failure to Prevent Discrimination in Violation of FEHA [Cal. Gov't
Code § 12940(k)]. 
 
Defendant,
Brightview Landscapes LLC (“Defendant”) now seeks to enforce an arbitration
clause Plaintiff allegedly signed in connection with his re-employment with the
Defendant’s company.
 
 
 
 
B.
Procedural 
 
On October 7, 2024, Defendant
file a Motion to Compel Arbitration. On October 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition. On November 1, 2024, Defendant filed a reply brief. 
 
II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS: 
Plaintiff’s Objection to the Supplemental
Declaration of Jeff Robinson
Overrule: n/a
Sustain: 1-4
 
The supplemental
declaration of Jeff Robinson was filed with the reply brief on November 1,
2024, and Plaintiff has not had the opportunity to respond to it in opposition.
It is improper to bring new evidence on reply. As such, the Court sustains
Plaintiff’s objections. Alternatively, the Court would consider continuing the
hearing until its next available date, December 31, 2024, and affording
Plaintiff the opportunity to file a sur-reply but would then also consider Mr. Robinson’s
supplemental declaration too.  
 
 
Defendant’s Objections to Plaintiff’s
Declaration of Jonathan D. Winters 
Overrule: 4, 5, 7.
Sustain: n/a.
 
Defendant’s Objections to Plaintiff’s
Declaration of Francisco Lopez 
Overrule: 2, 9, 10.
Sustain: 8.
 
III. ANALYSIS 
 
A.    Legal Standard 
The Federal Arbitration
Act (“FAA”) states that “[a] written provision in any . . . contract evidencing
a transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a controversy
thereafter arising out of such contract or transaction . . . shall be valid, irrevocable,
and enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the
revocation of any contract.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.) California law incorporates many
of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act,
including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla v. Permanente
Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.)
California law states
that “[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to
the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists….” (Code Civ. Proc, §
1281.2.) “The party seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears
the burden of proving any defense, such as unconscionability.” (Pinnacle
Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55
Cal.4th 223, 236.)
Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure §1281.2, generally, on a petition to
compel arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either
(1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2)¿the right to compel
arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement;
or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or
create conflicting¿rulings on common issues. 
 
When seeking to compel
arbitration, the initial burden lies with the moving party to demonstrate the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement by preponderance of evidence. 
(Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 841-42; Gamboa
v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021), 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 164-65.)  It
is sufficient for the moving party to produce a copy of the arbitration
agreement or set forth the agreement’s provisions.  (Gamboa, 72
Cal.App.5th at 165.)  The burden then shifts to the opposing party to
prove by a preponderance of evidence any defense to enforcement of the contract
or the arbitration clause.  (Ruiz, 232 Cal.App.4th at 842; Gamboa,
72 Cal.App.5th at 165.)  Subsequently, the moving party must
establish with the preponderance of admissible evidence a valid arbitration
agreement between the parties.  (Ibid.)  The trial court then
weighs all the evidence submitted and uses its discretion to make a final
determination.  (Ibid.)  “California law, ‘like [federal law],
reflects a strong policy favoring arbitration agreements and requires close
judicial scrutiny of waiver claims.’”  (Wagner Const. Co. v. Pacific
Mechanical Corp. (2007) 41 Cal.4th 19, 31.) 
 
If the court orders
arbitration, then the court shall stay the action until arbitration is
completed.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) 
 
B.   
Discussion

 
          Here,
the parties do not disagree that Plaintiff signed an agreement with Defendant
to arbitrate issues between the parties. However, Plaintiff does argue that the
arbitration agreement is invalid because it is both procedurally and
substantively unconscionable. 
 
       
Defendant asserts in its moving papers that on June 11, 2019, Plaintiff
executed a standalone arbitration agreement as part of his rehiring and
onboarding process. (Robinson Decl., ¶ 5, Exhibit A.) Defendant contends that
the Arbitration Agreement covers “any and all existing or future dispute or
claims between Employee and Employer, that arise out of or relate to Employee’s
recruitment, employment, or separation from employment with Employer…”
(Robinson Decl., ¶ 5, Exhibit A.) The Arbitration Agreement specifically states
the following: 
 
claims
involving any current or former officer, director, shareholder, agent or
employee of Employer, whether the disputes or claims arise under common law, or
in tort, contract, or pursuant to a statute, regulation, or ordinance now in
existence or which may in the future be enacted or recognized … 
 
claims
for fraud, promissory estoppel, fraudulent inducement of contract or breach of
contract or contractual obligation, whether such alleged contract or obligation
be oral, written, or express or implied by fact or law; 
 
claims
for wrongful termination of employment, violation of public policy and
constructive discharge, infliction of emotional distress, misrepresentation,
interference with contract or prospective economic advantage, defamation,
unfair business practices, and any other tort or tort-like causes of action
relating to or arising from the employment relationship or the formation or
termination thereof; 
 
claims
for discrimination, harassment or retaliation, whether on the basis of age,
sex, race, national origin, religion, disability or any other unlawful basis,
under any and all federal, state, or municipal statutes, regulations,
ordinances or common law, including but not limited to Title VII of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, the Civil Rights Acts of 1866 and 1991, the Age
Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, the Older Workers Benefit Protection
Act of 1990, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Americans with Disabilities
Act of 1990, the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, and including claims
under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, the Equal Pay Act of 1963, Section
1981 of the Civil Rights Act, and the Worker Adjustment and Retraining
Notification Act.
 
claims
for non-payment or incorrect payment of wages, commissions, bonuses, severance,
and employee fringe benefits, stock options and the like, whether such claims
be pursuant to alleged express or implied contract or obligation, equity, and
any federal, state, or municipal laws concerning wages, compensation or
employee benefits, claims of failure to pay wages for all hours worked, failure
to pay overtime, failure to pay wages due on termination, failure to provide
accurate, itemized wage statements, entitlement to waiting time penalties
and/or any other claims involving employee compensation issues.
 
(Robinson Decl., ¶ 5, Exhibit A.)
 
           Here,
this Court acknowledges that based on the face of the arbitration agreement,
and in the complaint, Plaintiff’s causes of action against Defendant involve
Defendant’s alleged wrongful termination of Plaintiff with the addition of
other sections covered by the Arbitration Agreement. As such, the Court finds
that preliminarily, the causes of action brought by Plaintiffs would be covered
by the arbitration agreement. 
 
Valid Arbitration Agreement 
 
          
Plaintiffs argue in their opposition, that the Arbitration Agreement is
not valid because it is both procedurally and substantively unconscionable.
More specifically, Plaintiff argues that the agreement was presented to him, a
Spanish-speaking individual with limited English proficiency, without
explanation or translation. He also argues that he had no meaningful
opportunity to negotiate its terms and was not even provided a copy. Moreover,
Plaintiff states the agreement unfairly restricts Plaintiff’s rights and
remedies. 
 
          This Court
notes that under the FAA, only generally applicable contract defenses such as
fraud, duress, or unconscionability, may be applied to invalidate arbitration
agreements without contravening the FAA. (Aviation Data, Inc. v. American
Express Travel Related Services Co., Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1522.) 
 
Unconscionability 
Plaintiff argues in his opposition that the
agreement is both procedurally and substantively unconscionable. Unconscionability is a valid defense to a petition to
compel arbitration. (Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc. v. Moreno (2013) 57 Cal.4th
1109, 1143.) State law governs the “unconscionability” defense. (Doctor’s
Assocs., Inc. v. Casarotto (1996) 517 US 681, 687.) The core concern of the
unconscionability doctrine is the “absence of meaningful choice on the part of
one of the parties together with contract terms which are unreasonably
favorable to the other party.” (Sonic-Calabasas, supra, 57 Cal.4th at
1145.) The unconscionability doctrine ensures that contracts—particularly
contracts of adhesion—do not impose terms that have been variously described as
overly harsh, unduly oppressive, so one-sided as to shock the conscience, or
unfairly one-sided. (Id.) 
“The procedural element of unconscionability focuses on
whether the contract is one of adhesion. (Armendariz, supra, 24
Cal.4th at p. 113; Mercuro v. Superior Court, supra, 96
Cal.App.4th at p. 174.) Procedural unconscionability focuses on whether there
is “oppression” arising from an inequality of bargaining power or “surprise”
arising from buried terms in a complex printed form. (Armendariz, supra,
24 Cal.4th at p. 114; Mercuro v. Superior Court, supra, 96 Cal.App.4th
at p. 174.) The substantive element addresses the existence of overly harsh or
one-sided terms. (Little v. Auto Stiegler, Inc. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1064,
1071 [130 Cal.Rptr.2d 892, 63 P.3d 979]; Armendariz, supra, 24
Cal.4th at p. 114.) An agreement to arbitrate is unenforceable only if both the
procedural and substantive elements are satisfied. (Armendariz, supra,
24 Cal.4th at p. 113; Mercuro v. Superior Court, supra, 96
Cal.App.4th at p. 174.) However, Armendariz held, “[T]he more
substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural
unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term is
unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Armendariz, at p. 114; see also Kinney
v. United HealthCare Services, Inc., supra, 70 Cal.App.4th at p. 1329.).” McManus
v. CIBC World Markets Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 76, 87.)
Procedural Unconscionability 
 
            Plaintiff
first argues that the Arbitration Agreement is procedurally unconscionable on
the grounds that: (1)  it was presented
to Plaintiff only in English, without any Spanish translation or explanation;
(2) there was a lack of opportunity to negotiate; and (3) Defendant’s failed to
provide Plaintiff with a copy. First, although Plaintiff is correct in his
assertion that some California courts have found language barrier to be
unconscionable, the cases referenced also included other bad acts on behalf of
the employer. This Court notes that “‘[o]rdinarily, one who accepts or signs an
instrument, which on its face is a contract, is deemed to assent to all its
terms, and cannot escape liability on the ground that he has not read it. If he
cannot read, he should have it read or explained to him.” (1 Witkin, Summary of
Cal. Law (9th ed. 1987), § 120, p. 145.) This is not only the California but
the general rule. (3 Corbin, Contracts (1960) § 607, pp. 668–669 [“One who
signs an instrument when for some reason, such as illiteracy or blindness, he
can not read it, will be bound by its terms in case the other party acts in
good faith without trick or misrepresentation. The signer should have had the
instrument read to him.’”] as cited in Randas v. YMCA of Metropolitan Los
Angeles (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 158, 163.) As such, unless Plaintiff shows that
Defendant acted in bath faith or with trick or misrepresentation, he is bound
by the document he signed, even if he is not proficient in English. 
            The
Court is aware of the California Translation Act.  Under that law, a contracting party may rescind
a contract or even perhaps an arbitration agreement under Civil Code §
1632(b)(2), if the Court were to finds that the Act applies to the subject plaintiff-defendant
relationship as “[a] loan or extension of credit secured other than by real
property, or unsecured, for use primarily for personal, family, or household
purposes.”  The Court has found no
precedent where an employment contract has been accepted to be protected under
Civil Code § 1632(b)(2). The thrust of the contract here, its gravamen and
primary terms, are not for a loan or extension of credit; rather it is one for
employment.  
          Here, Plaintiff has not
alleged sufficient facts to show that Defendant acted in bad faith when
presenting him with the Arbitration Agreement. First, Plaintiff does not allege
that he asked that the agreement be given to him in Spanish. Instead, Francisco
Lopez asserts that he does not recall signing the arbitration agreement, that
he was not presented with an arbitration agreement in Spanish, and that he was
never offered a Spanish translation. (Declaration of Francisco Lopez (“Lopez
Decl.”), ¶¶ 4-6.) Further, Jeff Robinson, Defendant’s Senior Vice President of
HR, included the signed arbitration agreement (with Plaintiff’s alleged
signature), and noted that employees are afforded an unlimited amount of time
to review the Arbitration Agreement, review it as many times as they want, and
can ask any questions to Defendant’s HR professional that they may have before
signing. (Robinson Decl., ¶¶ 5-6, Exhibit A.) Robinson further noted that there
is also a Brightview employee available to explain any information regarding
the onboarding process and documents to employees in Spanish. (Robinson Decl.,
¶ 6.) 
Plaintiff does not allege any bad faith representation
on behalf of Defendant, and Plaintiffs may not – now – seek to invalidate the
arbitration agreement because Plaintiff signed an agreement he did not
understand, and made no effort to understand prior to signing. 
            Next,
Plaintiff argues that the Arbitration Agreement is procedurally unconscionable
because it was presented on a ‘take it or leave it’ contract that gave
Plaintiff no meaningful opportunity but to sign the agreement to be rehired by
Defendant, indicating a lack of opportunity to negotiate. This Court notes that
when there is no other indication of oppression other than the adhesive aspect
of an agreement, the degree of procedural unconscionability is low. (Serpa
v. California Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 695,
704.)   
            Lastly,
Plaintiff argues that the Arbitration Agreement is procedurally unconscionable
because Plaintiff was not provided a copy of the agreement he allegedly signed,
violating California Labor Code section 432. In its reply, Defendant argues
that Plaintiff was provided with a copy after he signed. However, Defendant
does not back up this argument with admissible evidence of such. Despite this, and
even considering the alleged lack of providing a copy, the Court finds that the
level of procedural unconscionability is moderately low, requiring it to
consider the second level of claimed unconscionability. 
Substantive Unconscionability
 
            Next, Plaintiff argues that the
Arbitration Agreement is substantively unconscionable for three reasons: (1) there
is a PAGA Waiver; (2) Unilateral Modification; and (3) Limited Discovery. 
            
            First, the Court notes, as does
Defendant in its reply brief, that per Viking River Cruises,
Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 596 U.S. 639, 660-61(“Viking River”) has
overruled and does not apply to the portion of Iskanian upon which
Plaintiff relies. Further, as noted by Defendant, if this the representative
action waiver were unconscionable, the Court may sever this provision. Second,
the Court’s reading of the Arbitration Agreement does not have a unilateral
modification.  
 
            Lastly, as to limited discovery, the
limits affect both parties equally.  If the
plaintiff is precluded from taking depositions, so is the defense.  If interrogatories are restricted in
arbitration, that restriction applies equally to both sides.  Arbitrators often approve stipulations for
discovery that are balanced for both sides. 
A discovery
limitation, which is true of all arbitrations, cannot be a reason for this Court
to find such agreements unconscionable – otherwise arbitration would almost never
be an option. Thus, this Court finds that the level of substantive
unconscionability is not sufficient to deny this motion on those grounds. 
 
Armendariz Requirements
 
            The Court disagrees with Plaintiff’s
argument that the Arbitration Agreement violates Armendariz
requirements.   The requirements have
each been met by the Arbitration Agreement itself. 
 
IV. CONCLUSION
 
            For the foregoing reasons, this
Court’s tentative ruling is to GRANT Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration. 
 
            Defendant is ordered to give notice.

 
 