 Case Number:  23TRCV01656    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 November 5, 2024¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV01656
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Sherif
Makar v. Zachary Keller, et al.  
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff, Sherif Makar 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendants Zachary Keller, Bruce S.
Keller (No Opposition)
 
DISPOSED OF DATE:          September
19, 2024
 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Vacate Dismissal of Action and to Reinstate Case to
Civil Active List Due to Mistake, Inadvertence, or Excusable Neglect of
Plaintiff’s counsel.  
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED. 
 
            
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On
May 24, 2023, Plaintiff, Sherif Makar (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against
Defendant, Zachary Keller (“Defendant”), and DOES 1 through 50, for: (1) Motor
Vehicle Negligence; and (2) General Negligence. The complaint is based on the
allegation that Plaintiff and Defendant, Zachary Keller were exiting the
parking structure at LAX and when Defendant Keller illegally crossed multiple
lanes causing Plaintiff to collide with Defendant’s vehicle. As a result,
Plaintiff contends that he suffered, and continues to suffer, damages,
including, but not limited to, wage loss, loss of use of property, hospital and
medical expenses, general damage, property damage, and loss of earning
capacity. 
 
On
December 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint DOEing in
Bruce S. Keller as DOE 1. 
 
On
April 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a request for an Order for Publication which was
granted the same day by this Court. On April 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Proof
of Publication as to Bruce S. Keller and Zachary Keller. Further, on June 7,
2024, Plaintiff filed another Proof of Publication as to Zachary Keller.
Plaintiff filed a Motion for Default Prove-Up against Defendants, Zachary
Keller and Bruce S. Keller (collectively, “Defendant”).
 
On
September 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Request for Dismissal without prejudice
of: (1) the entire action of all parties and all causes of action; and (2) as
to DOES 1 through 50. The Request for Dismissal was entered by this Court the
following day. Now, Plaintiff moves the Court for an order vacating the
dismissal of the cause as it resulted from an inadvertent error from
Plaintiff’s counsel accidentally marking the box to dismiss the entire action
and all causes of action.       
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On September 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed this Motion
to Vacate this Court’s September 18, 2024 order dismissing the entire case
without prejudice. To date, no opposition has been filed.  
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
The Court notes that
Plaintiff does not move to vacate its dismissal on any legal grounds. Under
California law, a party may move to set aside or vacate a judgment pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b). Under this statute, an application for relief must be
made no more than six months after entry of the judgment, dismissal, order, or
other proceeding from which relief is sought and must be accompanied by an
affidavit of fault attesting to the mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect
of the moving party or its attorney. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); English
v. IKON Business Solutions (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.) 
 
Plaintiff’s application for relief
is made less than six (6) months after the entry of dismissal on September 19,
2024. The declaration of counsel for Plaintiff, Tatevik Gasparyan, (“Gasparyan
Decl.”), attests to the mistake and inadvertence in accidentally marking the
box to dismiss the entire action. (Gasparyan Decl., ¶¶ 4, 9, 12.) Because the
moving papers comply with the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section
473, subdivision (b), this court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion and vacates the
dismissal of the action and reinstates the case to the civil active list. 

 
III.
CONCLUSION
            
            For the foregoing reasons, this
court GRANTS Plaintiff’s Motion to Vacate Dismissal.  
 
            Plaintiff is ordered to provide
notice, which may potentially require a new application to serve by publication
unless Plaintiff has a reliable address at which to serve the Keller
defendants.
 
 
 