 Case Number:  24TRCV00170    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 November , 2024
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   24TRCV00170
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Karin Friedman v.
Anthony Cavuoti, LMFT, et al. 
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant, Carelon Behavioral Health of
California, Inc. 
¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff,
Karin Friedman 
 
TRIAL DATE:                         Not Set. 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Demurrer to the Third
Amended Complaint
                                                (2)  CMC
¿¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) OVERRULED 
                                                (2)  The Court will discuss a discovery plan for the
case and ADR
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On January 23, 2024, Plaintiff, Karin
Friedman (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Anthony Cavuoti,
LMFT, Carelon Behavioral Health of CA, Inc., and DOES 1 through 100. The
Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Professional Negligence; (2)
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (3) Negligent Hiring.  On March 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Professional
Negligence; (2) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (3) Negligent
Selection of an Independent Contractor. On June 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1)
Professional Negligence; (2) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and
(3) Negligent Selection of an Independent Contractor. On July 25, 2024, this
court SUSTAINED demurrer with twenty (20) days leave to amend. 
 
On July 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a third
amended complaint (“TAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Professional
Negligence; (2) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (3) Negligent
Selection of an Independent Contractor. The TAC is based on Plaintiff’s
allegation that on August 18, 2023, Plaintiff called Defendant, Carelon and
spoke to a therapist regarding issues of depression and anxiety for forty-five
minutes. (TAC, ¶ 10.) Plaintiff contends that Carelon then emailed her on
August 21, 2023 the information of two therapists, both of whom said they were
a good match for her, and both of whom were men. (TAC, ¶ 10.) Plaintiff asserts
that she called back and asked for female therapists, and they said that none
were available in her area. (TAC, ¶ 10.) Thus, Plaintiff indicates that she
contacted Defendant Cavuoti to set up an initial meeting because he was the
closest therapist to her location. (TAC, ¶ 10.) Plaintiff alleges that a few
days after, she spoke with Defendant Cavuoti to explain to him that she
requires consistent therapy due to her psychological disorder of depression and
anxiety (among other issues). (TAC, ¶ 10.) Plaintiff further asserts that she
told him she was adopted and suffered abuse from her mother. (TAC, ¶ 10.) After
informing him of this, Plaintiff states that Defendant Cavuoti stated he was
also adopted, was the same age as her, and stated that they had a lot in
common, and that he could not wait to meet her. (TAC, ¶ 10.)
 
Plaintiff contends that on August 30,
2023, she had her first appointment with Defendant Cavuoti. (TAC, ¶ 12.) During
this initial appointment Plaintiff asserts that Defendant Cavuoti spoke with
her about his previous weekend in Las Vegas and brought the conversation back
to himself when he informed Plaintiff about his own history of abuse. (TAC, ¶
12.) Plaintiff asserts that she was upset by this information as she was also
abused as a child. (TAC, ¶ 12.) Plaintiff notes that the conversation
continuously came back to Defendant Cavuoti, which reduced the time to speak
with him about her own issues. (TAC, ¶¶ 13-14.) Moreover, Plaintiff states that
Defendant Cavuoti abruptly and stated, “our time is over.” (TAC, ¶ 14.)
Plaintiff further contends that he then opened the door and said, “I know I am
not supposed to do this,” and proceeded to hug her while pressing her close to
him while making audible, strange noises which sounded like “oh, oh.” (TAC, ¶
14.)
 
Plaintiff alleges that after she left,
she had her partner pull over on the side of the road and she vomited. (TAC, ¶
15.) As soon as she got home, Plaintiff notes she took a shower and called her
psychiatrist’s office and told him what had happened. (TAC, ¶ 15.) Plaintiff
also states that she called Defendant Carelon and told them what happened. (TAC,
¶ 15.) Plaintiff asserts that Defendant Carelon apologized profusely and said
they would send her more referrals, to which they subsequently sent five (5) women.
(TAC, ¶ 15.) Plaintiff contends that she proceeded to speak with her
psychiatrist weekly due to the incident, who prescribed her mediation to
address her nerves in the wake of the incident. (TAC, ¶ 16.) Subsequently,
Plaintiff alleges that she unintentionally left her files at Defendant
Cavuoti’s office, and he forced her into further communications to retrieve her
paperwork, which caused her additional stress, anxiety, and sleeplessness. (TAC,
¶ 16.)
 
Defendant, Carelon Behavioral Health of
California, Inc. (“Carelon”) now files a demurrer to the SAC. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On September 3, 2024, Carelon filed a
demurrer to Plaintiff’s TAC. On October 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition
brief. On October 29, 2024, Carelon filed a reply brief. 
 
¿II. ANALYSIS¿¿  
 
A.    Legal Standard 
 
 Leave to amend is permitted
under the Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a) and section 576.
The policy favoring amendment and resolving all matters in the same dispute is
“so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be
justified. . ..” “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great
liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the
proceedings, up to and including trial [citations], this policy should be
applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party . . ..
[citation].  A different result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and
probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is shown. [Citation].” (Magpali v.
Farmers Group (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)  
 
A motion for leave to amend a pleading must also
comply with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule
3.1324, which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what
allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence
was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made
earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered
amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines the allegations that
would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying the effect,
necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and reasons for
delay. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).) 
 
B.   
Discussion
 
Defendant Carelon demurs to Plaintiff’s TAC on the
grounds that it argues Plaintiff’s third cause of action for Negligent
Selection of An Independent Contractor fails to state sufficient facts to
constitute a cause of action. As this Court has previously ruled on demurrers
brought under the same grounds, in the interest of brevity, it will not provide
the same level of analysis as in its previous minute orders. 
 
i.             
Meet and Confer Requirement 
                       
The declaration of
Kelsey A. Hill is offered in support of Carelon’s counsel’s compliance with
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. Hill declares that on August 28, 2024, her
colleague, Junga Kim, sent Plaintiff’s counsel an email identifying the defects
that we anticipated raising in Carelon’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s TAC and asking
to meet and confer. (Declaration of Kelsey A. Hill (“Hill Decl.”), ¶ 4.) On August
29, 2024, Hill indicates that Plaintiff’s counsel sent an email stating that he
was “willing to attempt to amend” the TAC and file a fourth amended complaint
by Carelon’s responsive pleading deadline on September 3, 2024, in order to
address the defects that Hill had raised. (Hill Decl., ¶ 5.) Oh August 30,
2024, Hill indicates that she responded to Liskey and requested that he provide
a detailed explanation on how he intended to amend the TAC by September 2,
2024. (Hill Decl., ¶ 6.) At that time, Hill asserts that she informed
Plaintiff’s counsel that while Carelon would consider Plaintiff’s proposed
amended allegations, Plaintiff would need to file a motion for leave to amend.
(Hill Decl., ¶ 6.)
 
On September 2, and
September 3, 2024, Hill contends that she and Plaintiff’s counsel exchanged
email correspondence regarding Plaintiff’s intended amendment to the TAC. (Hill
Decl., ¶ 7.) In her email on September 3, 2024, Plaintiff explained that Carelon’s
position was that Plaintiff’s proposed amended allegations were not sufficient
and would be subject to a demurrer on the dame grounds they had articulated
with respect to the TAC. (Hill Decl., ¶ 8.) Accordingly, Hill asserts that
despite exchanging various email correspondence with Plaintiff’s counsel, they
were unable to reach an agreement resolving the objections to Plaintiff’s TAC
raised in Carelon’s demurrer. (Hill Decl., ¶ 9.)
 
Thus,
this Court finds that the parties have met and conferred in good faith prior to
filing the demurrer, and the meet and confer requirements have been met.
 
ii.              
Negligent
Selection of an Independent Contractor
 
Previously,
this Court sustained demurrer to the SAC on the grounds that it found that
pursuant to the Second District’s ruling in Doe v. Capital Cities (1996)
50 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1054 (“Capital Cities”), Plaintiff was required to
allege that Carelon knew or should have known from some prior incident,
screening process, a prior claim, or otherwise that Cavuoti would discuss his
own personal history of childhood abuse with a new patient, that he would make
veiled romantic overtures to female therapy patients, and that he would hug,
embrace, or make inappropriate physical contact with therapy patients. This Court
held that in the SAC, no allegations of those sort were contained. Further, although
Plaintiff’s SAC had alleged each element of CACI 426 in conclusory fashion,
more factual detail was required. For example, as this Court previously noted:
was Carelon aware of inappropriate behavior of Defendant Cavuoti prior to
hiring him? Did other patients of Defendant Cavuoti make similar complaints to
Defendant Carelon prior to him being recommended as a therapist to Plaintiff?
Without more detailed facts and allegations, this court found that Plaintiff
could not maintain a cause of action for Negligent Selection of an Independent
Contractor. 
 
Since
the Court’s previous ruling, Plaintiff has included paragraph 28 in the TAC,
alleging, “On information and belief, CARELON knew or should have known from
specific prior incident[s], from their screening process, from defendant
CAVUOTI’s history, or otherwise that CAVUOTI would/could improperly discuss his
own personal history of abuse with new patients, that he would/could make
veiled romantic overtures to therapy patients, that he would/might hug,
embrace, make inappropriate physical contact with therapy patients, or
otherwise act in a manner that would cause harm to his fragile patients. On
information and belief, defendant CAVUOTI’s past conduct was such that it
should have alerted Defendant CARELON of this potential risk, either before his
retention or after when it became obvious and apparent.” (TAC, ¶ 28.) 
 
Here,
although Plaintiff’s new allegation in her TAC technically addresses the
defects noted pursuant to Capital Cities and CACI 426, these allegations
are pleaded in a conclusory fashion. While it remains to be seen whether any of
these conclusions will be supported by any facts, the Court will allow the parties
to enter into the discovery phase to see whether any facts exist or can be developed.  The Court cautions plaintiff in advance that
if no such facts are developed, Plaintiff will be expected to dismiss the negligent
selection cause of action 
 
 
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
For
the foregoing reasons, Defendant Carelon’s demurrer is OVERRULED.  Plaintiff is ordered to give notice. 
 
 
 
 
 
 