 Case Number:  23VECV01953    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  T 23VECV01953 CANDACE BEJUNE, et al. vs BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant's Motion to Strike is GRANTED. Defendant to answer within 20 days.
Factual Background -
This case stems from a disagreement on the payment of insurance funds. Candace and Rick Bejune's ("Plaintiffs") home suffered a burst water supply line to their refrigerator. (First Amended Complaint, hereinafter, "FAC",  9.) This caused significant damage to their home. Plaintiffs had an insurance policy with and contacted their insurer, Defendant Amguard (erroneously sued as Berkshire Hathaway Guard)  ("Defendant"), regarding coverage for their covered losses in their home. 
After reporting their claim, Plaintiffs waited nearly three months to receive a payment of $83,087.99. (FAC,  15.) However, Plaintiffs' estimates were much higher, including one from Westland Contracting totaling $178,586.80. (FAC,  16.) Over a span of five months, Plaintiffs made numerous attempts at contacting Defendant, however Defendant was nonresponsive. Plaintiffs then commenced this suit alleging two causes of action in their operative FAC: (1) breach of contract, and (2) breach of duty of good faith and fair dealing.
Procedural History -
Plaintiffs sued Defendant by filing their initial Complaint on May 4, 2023. Defendant filed a Motion to Strike punitive damages from the initial Complaint, which was granted on September 12, 2023, with Plaintiff being granted 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiffs filed their FAC on October 2, 2023. Defendant once again moves to strike Plaintiffs' request for punitive damages in the FAC.
Discussion
Meet and Confer -
"Before filing a motion to strike pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the objections to be raised in the motion to strike." (CCP § 435.5(a).) Defense counsel states that they met and conferred with Plaintiffs' counsel but could not come to an agreement. Although no agreement was reached, the requirements of CCP § 435.5(a) have been met. Therefore, the Court will turn its attention to the Motion to Strike ("Motion").    
Legal Standard -
The court may, upon motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (CCP § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (CCP § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (CCP § 437.)
A motion to strike any pleading must be filed "within the time allowed to respond to a pleading"-e.g., 30 days after service of the complaint or cross-complaint unless extended by court order or stipulation. [CCP § 435(b)(1)]. This does not affect the court's power to strike sua sponte. Courts are specifically authorized to strike a pleading upon a motion or at any time in the court's discretion. (CCP § 436)
The Court notes that motions to strike punitive damages may be granted, where the alleged facts do not support conclusions of malice, fraud, or oppression. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central Calif., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
Analysis -
Defendant's previous motion to strike punitive damages was granted on the basis that Plaintiff failed to plead specific facts to allege that the failure to communicate is attributable to Defendant's director, officer, or managing agent or ratification. (See September 12, 2023 Minute Order.) That deficiency has not been remedied, and the Court grants the instant Motion on the same basis.
Punitive Damages Statute -
CIV § 3294 governs punitive damages and provides the following: "In an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant." (CIV § 3294(a).) CIV § 3294(c)(1) provides the following definitions shall apply to this section:
(1) "Malice" means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2) "Oppression" means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.
(3) "Fraud" means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
Additionally, "when the defendant is a corporation, "[a]n award of punitive damages against a corporation ... must rest on the malice of the corporation's employees. But the law does not impute every employee's malice to the corporation." Instead, the oppression, fraud, or malice must be perpetrated, authorized, or knowingly ratified by an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation. A "[M]anaging agent' ... include[s] only those corporate employees who exercise substantial independent authority and judgment in their corporate decision making so that their decisions ultimately determine corporate policy." (Wilson v. Southern California Edison Co. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 123, 164. Emphasis added, internal citations omitted.) 
Application -
Here, Plaintiffs add in their FAC that "The decisions made by AMG[U]ARD in [r]elation to PLAINTIFFS' CLAIM and its outcome were either made by or approved/ratified by its managing agents." Without more, this is a conclusory statement. Plaintiffs argue in their opposition that conclusory terms are sufficient when pled in the context of facts that support the imposition of punitive damages. (Opposition Papers, 8:3-6.) However, the case cited, Clauson v. Superior Court 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 demonstrates that more specifics are needed. In Clauson the plaintiff, Mr. Clauson, sued the defendants alleging wiretapping violations and invasion of privacy. In doing so, plaintiff plead (1) that defendants' employees had installed eavesdropping devices in Mr. Clauson's office, (2) that they wiretapped his private office and telephone, and (3) that private conversations between Mr. Clauson had been tape recorded. (Clauson, supra at 1255.)
The Court can distinguish Clauson from the instant case; Plaintiffs here argue only that they were ignored after an initial payout from Defendant. The contrast in detail between Clauson and the instant case is evident. Plaintiffs here have every right to inquire and contest the payout amount when reasonable doubt exists regarding its accuracy. However, to plead facts that support punitive damages against a corporation, Plaintiffs must present more facts than what is currently plead.
Additionally, the Court contrasts the instant case with Morris v. Paul Revere Life Ins. Co. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 966, 973 (Morris) and Jordan v. Allstate Ins. Co. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1062, 1071-1072 (Jordan). Both Morris and Jordan stand for the proposition that punitive damages are permitted when the insurer unreasonably denies or delays payment to the insured. However, Plaintiffs plead no facts showing an unreasonable delay nor denial. Therefore, Defendant's Motion to Strike is granted.         
Leave to Amend -
The court has already granted leave to amend the allegations still insufficient.  There is no basis to grant additional leave to amend.
Conclusion
Accordingly, Defendant's Motion to Strike is GRANTED in its entirety. 
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.
 