  Case Number:  21STCV08660    Hearing Date:   October 21, 2024    Dept:  B Hearing Date: October 21, 2024
Re: 21STCV08660 Kahlee Van Kirk, an Individual,
vs Joaquin Reidiess, an Individual, et al.
 
 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendant Secure Property Management, Inc.
(“Defendant”) moves to compel nonparty Munish Lal, M.D. (“Dr. Lal”) to comply
with a deposition subpoena for the production of business records. Defendant
also seeks monetary sanctions. No opposition has been filed.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
A party seeking discovery from a person who is
not a party to the action may obtain discovery by oral deposition, written
deposition, or deposition subpoena for production of business records.  (Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. § 2020.010.)  A deposition subpoena may command either:
(1) only the attendance and testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production
of business records for copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the
deponent, as well as the production of business records, other documents,
electronically stored information, and tangible things.  (CCP §
2020.020.)   
 
A service of a deposition subpoena shall be
affected a sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the deponent
a reasonable opportunity to locate and produce any designated documents and,
where personal attendance is commanded, a reasonable time to travel to the
place of deposition.  (CCP § 2020.220(a).)  Personal service of any
deposition subpoena is effective to require a deponent who is a resident of
California to: personally appear and testify, if the subpoena so specifies; to
produce any specified documents; and to appear at a court session if the
subpoena so specifies. (CCP § 2020.220(c).)  A deponent who disobeys
a deposition subpoena may be punished for contempt without the necessity of a
prior order of the court directing compliance by the witness. (CCP §
2020.240.) A motion to compel compliance with a deposition subpoena must
be made within 60 days after completion of the deposition record, the date
objections are served, or the date specified for production, and be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration. (CCP §2025.480, subd., (b); Board of
Registered Nursing v. Sup.Ct. (Johnson & Johnson) (2021) 59 Cal.App.5th
1011, 1032-1033.) 
 
CCP § 1987.1(a) states: “[i]f a subpoena
requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or
other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the
taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person
described in subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving
counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the
subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those
terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In
addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect
the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person.” 
  
CCP §1987.2(a) states, in relevant part, “. . .
in making an order pursuant to motion made . . . under Section 1987.1, the
court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses
incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s
fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without
substantial justification . . .” 
 
MEET AND CONFER
 
Defendant
served the subpoenas upon Dr. Lal on May 13, 2024. (Ruiz Decl. ¶ 9; Exh. B.) On
May 21 and May 29, 2024, Defendant followed up on their business records
request via email. (Ruiz Decl. ¶ 10; Exh. C.) Defendant again followed up on
June 21, 2024. (Ruiz Decl. ¶ 11; Exh. D.) After no response, Defendant sent Dr.
Lal a meet and confer letter on June 25, 2024. (Ruiz Decl. ¶ 12; Exh. E [meet
and confer letter].) Dr. Lal did not respond. (Ruiz Decl. ¶ 15.) Accordingly,
the meet and confer requirement is met.
 
DISCUSSION
 
This case involves an alleged slip and fall on
a staircase owned by Defendant. Plaintiff Kahlee Van Kirk (“Plaintiff”) alleges
serious injuries as a result. On May 13, 2024, Defendant issued a deposition
subpoena for the production of business records on Dr. Lal, who performed a MRI
on Plaintiff in connection with their sustained injuries. (Ruiz Decl. ¶¶ 5 and
9.) The subpoena’s date of production was June 25, 2024.
 
Though Defendant contends they issued a valid
subpoena, their only proof of service of is the business record of ABI Document
Support Services (“ABI”), who was retained by Defendant to execute the
subpoenas. (Ruiz Decl. ¶ 7; Exh. B.) This proof is insufficient. Defendant
provides no other proof of personal service upon Dr. Lal.
 
Therefore, the motion is denied as procedurally
defective. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The Court DENIES Defendant’s Motion for Order
Compelling Munish Lal, M.D. to Comply with Subpoena.
 
Defendant shall give notice of the Court’s
order.