  Case Number:  23SMCV0381    Hearing Date:   February 13, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
California
Physicians Service dba Blue Shield of California v. Advanced Orthopedic Center,
Case No. 23SMCV0381
Hearing Date February
13, 2024
Defendant Advanced
Orthopedic’s Anti-SLAPP Motion
Plaintiff Blue
Shield’s Motion to Seal 
 
Plaintiff
California Physician’s Service dba Blue Shield of California (Blue Shield) sues
defendant Advanced Orthopedic Center (AOC) for declaratory relief and money had
and received. AOC has filed numerous small claims actions against Blue Shield,
arguing it was underpaid for emergency services provided to Blue Shield
members. Blue Shield seeks a court declaration stating its payment methodology
is valid, resulting in payments to AOC equal to or exceeding fair market value,
that AOC is not entitled to its full billed charges for services to Medicare
members and Blue Shield is entitled to reimbursement for overpaid claims.
 
Defendant AOC
files an anti-SLAPP motion, arguing this lawsuit arises out of protected
litigation activity, namely its filing of small claims actions.
 
Courts resolving an anti-SLAPP motion under Cal. Civ. Code
§425.16 follow a two-step process. Jarrow
Formulas, Inc. v. LaMarche (2003) 31 Cal.4th 728, 733. In prong one, the
court determines whether the conduct underlying plaintiff’s cause of action
arises from defendant’s constitutional rights of free speech or petition. Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal. 5th 376,
395. This is a threshold issue—if moving party fails to show the conduct is
constitutionally protected, the court need not address prong two. Jarrow, supra, 31 Cal.4th at 733. The
anti-SLAPP statute covers litigation-related activities, with any statement or
writing made in “connection with” litigation receiving protection. Seltzer
v. Barnes (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 953, 962.
 
Under
the second prong, the burden shifts to plaintiff to establish a legally
sufficient claim and to prove with admissible evidence a reasonable probability
that plaintiff will prevail. E.g. Navellier
v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 88. To fulfill prong two, plaintiff cannot
rely on allegations of the complaint but must produce evidence admissible at
trial. HMS Capital, Inc. v. Lawyers Title
Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 204, 212.
 
Blue
Shield’s Motion to Seal 
Blue
Shield seeks to seal portions of exhibit 3 to the declaration of Bruce Deal,
which allegedly include confidential and proprietary information related to
Blue Shield’s rates. 
 
A
court may order a record sealed if it finds (1) an overriding interest exists
that overcomes the right of public access to the record, (2) the overriding
interest supports sealing the record, (3) a substantial probability exists that
the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed, (4) the
request is narrowly tailored and (5) no less restrictive means exist to achieve
the overriding interest. Cal. Rule of Court 2.550(d).
 
Blue
Shield has shown its fee schedules are unique, proprietary information. Nordon
Decl. ¶¶3-4. Blue Shield has an overriding interest in maintaining the
confidentiality of this information. The request is narrowly tailored, with
only a small portion of the exhibit sealed. GRANTED. 
 
Evidentiary
Objection 
Objection
1 SUSTAINED (lack of foundation, relevance); other objections OVERRULED. 
 
AOC’s
Anti-SLAPP Motion
Filing
a small claims action is litigation activity. If this lawsuit arises out of AOC’s
filing of small claims actions, the first prong is fulfilled. 
 
AOC
argues Blue Shield filed this lawsuit is to preempt AOC’s reimbursement actions
in small claims court. Blue Shield’s complaint alleges “AOC has filed (and
continues to file) numerous small claims court actions in various Los Angeles
courts against Blue Shield,” and complains that in small claims court “there is
no time to dig in to the complex reimbursement rules that may apply to
different health plans in which Blue Shield members are enrolled. And Blue
Shield cannot take discovery of any underlying facts, such as the amounts AOC
is paid by other payors in the marketplace[.]” Complaint ¶¶3-4.
 
Blue
Shield alleges “the complex legal and factual issues surrounding physician
reimbursement cannot be fully and properly litigated in a small claims court
action,” and “[t]hese procedural limitations . . . have deprived Blue Shield of
key due process protections[.]” Id. ¶¶4, 7. The complaint states Blue Shield’s dissatisfaction
with the small claims venue and admits the purpose of this action is to prevent
AOC from continuing to pursue reimbursement in that venue. 
 
In
opposition, Blue Shield argues a plaintiff’s motive for bringing a lawsuit is
immaterial to the anti-SLAPP analysis, and prong one is concerned only with the
alleged activity underlying the dispute. Blue Shield argues the underlying
activity is not AOC’s bringing of small claims actions but its ongoing dispute
with Blue Shield regarding reimbursement.
 
Blue
Shield cites City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 78 which
held “subjective intent is not relevant,” when determining whether a claim
arises from protected activity. Cotati states “a claim filed in response
to, or in retaliation for, threatened or actual litigation is not subject to
the anti-SLAPP statute simply because it may be viewed as an oppressive
litigation tactic . . . [t]hat a cause of action arguably may have been
triggered by protected activity does not entail that it is one arising from
such.” Id. 
 
Cotati
is dispositive. This lawsuit was
filed in response to AOC’s numerous small claims actions, and some of the
language in the complaint suggests Blue Shield intends to chill AOC’s right to
pursue damages in small claims court. Nonetheless, under Cotati, this is
largely irrelevant. 
 
The
small claims actions themselves are not the conduct giving rise to AOC’s causes
of action. Rather, the relevant conduct is AOC providing medical services to
Blue Shield’s members, Blue Shield paying for those services, and AOC disputing
the amount paid. AOC expressed that disagreement via the various small claims
actions, but the complaint does not allege that the small claims actions themselves
give rise to liability. 
 
It
is the parties’ ongoing payment dispute, not that dispute’s expression in small
claims actions, that underlies this lawsuit. Under Cotati, the first
prong is not fulfilled. Since AOC has not established the first prong of
anti-SLAPP analysis, the court need not address the second prong. DENIED.  
 
Blue
Shield asks the court to find AOC’s motion is frivolous and award attorney’s
fees. The court declines to do so. Blue Shield’s complaint included references
to protected litigation activity; based on this language, it was not
unreasonable or a sign of bad faith for AOC to conclude that the lawsuit arose
out of that activity. No fees to be awarded.