 Case Number:  23AVCV01329    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a negligence action. Plaintiff
Amarilla Perez Pivara (“Plaintiff”) presents that she is the owner of a
quadruplex in Lancaster California and that she contracted with Defendant Good
Seed CDC (“Defendant”) to locate a suitable tenant. Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant recommended an individual, Gary Chadwell (“Chadwell”), as a suitable
renter; Defendant’s representative sponsored Chadwell as a suitable tenant;
both parties went through negotiations with the Los Angeles County Housing
Authority[1]
to have Chadwell’s rent subsidized, and Chadwell moved in on August 15, 2023.
Plaintiff contends that upon Chadwell’s move in, Chadwell would (1) yell,
threaten, and intimidate other tenants for no apparent reason; (2) throw trash
and bottles on the open common areas, endangering those around him; (3) bring
homeless people onto the premises who would bring what appeared to be stolen
bicycle parts onto the property; and (4) regularly create disturbances to the
point the police were called. Plaintiff presents that she found out, after
Chadwell had moved, in that Chadwell was facing criminal charges for making
terroristic threats, resisting arrest, and brandishing a deadly weapon in a
threatening matter and that Chadwell had been removed from Uncle Dave’s
Housing, a place for homeless men. Plaintiff emphasizes that these facts were
not disclosed to her by Defendant. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant breached a
duty of care to do a background check on Chadwell prior to sponsoring him for
tenancy to Plaintiff and by failing to disclose any of Chadwell’s foregoing
behavior. Plaintiff presents that she would not have rented to Chadwell had
this behavior been disclosed and that it was foreseeable to Defendant that
Chadwell would be a problem tenant because of his violent tendencies and
pending criminal charges. Plaintiff informs the party and the Court that she
was forced to file an unlawful detainer (“UD”) action against Chadwell. Plaintiff
alleges damages for lost rent, eviction services, danger to other tenants, and
emotional distress. 
 
On November 15, 2023, Plaintiff
filed her Complaint alleging one cause of action for General Negligence. 
 
On February 07, 2024, Defendant
filed this Demurrer. 
 
On March 13, 2024, a Case
Management Conference (“CMC”) was held. 
 
On March 19, 2024, Plaintiff
filed her Opposition.
 
On March 25, 2024, Defendant
filed its Reply. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Demurrer – A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of
action.¿ (Hahn v.¿Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) ¿When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.¿ (Taylor
v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power¿(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th
1216, 1228.)¿ In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the
face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
430.30(a).)¿A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters.¿ (SKF Farms v. Superior Court¿(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)¿
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or
are judicially noticed.¿¿(Ibid.)¿¿The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is¿whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.¿ (Hahn,¿supra,¿147 Cal.App.4th
at 747.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
A general demurrer admits the truth of all
factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading,
regardless of possible difficulties of proof.¿¿(Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿ Thus, no matter how unlikely or improbable, plaintiff’s
allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling on the
demurrer.¿¿(Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co.¿(1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 593, 604.)¿ Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations
expressing mere conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits
to the complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.¿¿(Vance
v. Villa Park¿Mobilehome¿Estates¿(1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 698, 709.)¿A general
demurrer does not admit contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to
facts of which a court may take judicial notice.¿¿(Blank,¿supra,
39 Cal.3d at p. 318.)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Pursuant to¿Code Civ. Proc.¿§430.10(e), the
party against whom a complaint has been filed may object by demurrer to the
pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.¿ It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment.¿¿(Schifando¿v. City of Los Angeles¿(2003)
31 Cal.4th 1074, 1082,¿as modified Dec. 23, 2003.)¿
 
Meet and
Confer Requirement
– Before filing a
demurrer or a motion to strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet
and confer with the party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading
that is subject to the motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether
an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§
430.41 and 435.5.) It appears that this requirement has not been met. (See
Decl. Daniel C. Lapidus ¶¶ 2-4.) “A determination by the court that the meet
and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain
a demurrer.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(4).) The Court
addresses the Demurrer on its merits.
  
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – Defendant
demurs to the Complaint under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e) failure to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s
Complaint fails to state a cause of action for negligence as “no duty exists
‘to control the conduct of another, [or] to warn those endangered by such
conduct;’ ” and  “ ‘[a] person who has
not created a peril is not liable in tort merely for failure to take
affirmative action to assist or protect another unless there is some
relationship between them which gives rise to a duty to act.’ ” (Demurrer
5:11-12 [citing Davidson v. City of Westminster (1982) 32 Cal.3d 197 and
Williams v. State of California (1983) 34 Cal.3d 18, 23].) Defendant
concedes that certain relationships are recognized as special which gives rise
to an expectation of protection from a defendant such as the relationship
between parents and children, colleges and students, employers and employees,
common carriers and passengers, and innkeepers and guests. Defendant presents
that the Complaint contains no allegations which exist to create any duty owed
by Defendant to Plaintiff as, accepting the truth of Plaintiff’s allegations,
the only relationship is Defendant assisted Plaintiff in finding a tenant which
does not constitute a special relationship, nor can Plaintiff amend her
Complaint to allege such a duty. 
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s
negligent referral represented a dangerous condition, citing Garcia v. Holt
(2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 600, 604 (“Garcia”). Plaintiff emphasizes Cal.
Civ. Code § 1714, emphasizing the foreseeability of the harm Plaintiff has
allegedly suffered. Plaintiff cites to case law regarding the standard for a
demurrer, leave to amend, and demurrers on uncertainty. 
 
In Reply, Defendant reiterates
its arguments that the relationship between the parties is not one that gives
rise to a duty to protect. Defendant provides the following arguments related
to Plaintiff’s Opposition: (1) Plaintiff admits that she is a landlord, and (2)
Plaintiff has not given any facts that show that she can amend her Complaint to
show that Defendant exercised any degree of protection over Plaintiff or her
property, let alone a level of superior control" required to create a duty
of care. Defendant provides a new argument that, assuming a special
relationship existed, no duty of care would exist as the acts of a third-party
tenant could not be foreseeable under J.L. v. Children’s Institute, Inc.
(2009) Cal.App.4th 388.
 
The salutary rule is that points
raised in a reply brief for the first time will not be considered unless good
cause is shown for the failure to present them before.” (Balboa Ins. Co. v.
Aguirre (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 1002, 1010.) “This rule is based on the same
solid logic applied in the appellate courts, specifically, that ‘[p]oints
raised for the first time in a reply brief will ordinarily not be considered,
because such consideration would deprive the respondent of an opportunity to
counter the argument.’ ” (Id. at 1538 [citing American Drug Stores,
Inc. v. Stroh (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1446, 1453; Browne v. County of
Tehama (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 704, 720, fn. 10].) As such, the Court does
not consider Defendant’s new argument concerning foreseeability submitted in
the Reply brief. 
 
While Defendant does not present
that the Complaint is uncertain, the Complaint raises questions as to this
Demurrer. Defendants argue under tort law, specifically citing to Cal. Civ.
Code § 1714 and Williams v. State of California (1983) 34 Cal.3d 18, 23
[““ ‘[a] person who has not created a peril is not liable in tort merely for
failure to take affirmative action to assist or protect another unless there is
some relationship between them which gives rise to a duty to act.’ ”]; however,
it is not clear that this cause of action is based solely in tort. 
 
While Plaintiff has brought a
cause of action titled “General Negligence,” Plaintiff clearly alleges a
contractual relationship in which Defendant was to provide a suitable tenant
and that the tenant was unsuitable. (See Complaint General Negligence
Attachment.) Defendant does not dispute this in its moving papers. Defendant
concedes that “the only relationship between the parties is one in which
Defendant assisted Plaintiff in finding a tenant.” (Demurrer 5:28-6:1.) The
Complaint further does not provide where the alleged duties (i.e., duty of care
to do a background check on Chadwell prior to sponsoring him for tenancy to
Plaintiff and by failing to disclose any of Chadwell’s foregoing behavior) stem
from. Rather, the parties provide what they believe to be the basis for these
duties in their papers filed for this Demurrer. As such, the Complaint is
uncertain. (See Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10(f).) 
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer is
SUSTAINED. 
 
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend must be allowed where there
is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy¿(1976),
18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) While under California law leave to amend is liberally
granted, “leave to amend should not be granted where, in all probability,
amendment would be futile.” (Vaillette v. Fireman's Fund Ins. Co.
(1993), 18 Cal. App. 4th 680, 685).¿ “A trial court does not abuse its
discretion when it sustains a demurrer without¿leave to amend¿if either (a) the
facts and the nature of the claims are clear and no liability exists, or (b) it
is probable from the nature of the defects and previous unsuccessful attempts
to plead that the plaintiff cannot state a claim.” (Cantu v. Resolution
Trust Corp.¿(1992)¿4 Cal.App.4th 857, 889.) 
 
Here, the Complaint is uncertain and may
be rectified by an amendment. 
 
Accordingly, leave to amend is allowed.
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Good Seed CDC’s
Demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
Plaintiff Amarilla M. Perez Pivara is to provide an
amended pleading within 30 days of this Court Order.


