 Case Number:  23AVCV00370    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  A14 Background
 
This is a wrongful death action. Plaintiffs
Susan Ekdahl, individually, and as Administrator of the Estate of Edward A.
Ekdahl (“Susan”[1]);
and Edward A. Ekdahl, by and through his Successor in Interest, Susan Ekdahl
(“Decedent” and collectively “Plaintiffs”), allege that on (1) January 02,
2022, Decedent was transported to Defendant 
Lancaster Hospital Corporation dba Palmdale Regional Medical Center,
erroneously sued as Palmdale Regional Medical Center (“PRMC”)’s Emergency
Department by ambulance for chest main and shortness of breath; (2) Decedent
was admitted shortly after midnight on January 03, 2022, with Defendant Sonia
P. Sethi, M.D. (“Dr. Sethi”) as his attending physician; (3) while in the
patient room Decedent was connected to an intravenous line, heated high-flow
oxygen, and some vital sign monitoring cables; (4) at around 6:00 pm on January
03, 2022, as a result of failure to provide medial and non-medical services,
including supervision, Decedent was able to remove various lines and cables
from his body and proceeded to the bathroom unattended without supervision; (5)
there was no alerting device in place or protocol to alert Dr. Sethi and
attending medical staff in real-time that a patient was exiting the bed alone
without supervision; (6) Decedent collapsed and went into cardiac arrest while
in the bathroom; (7) when medical staff discovered Decedent, they were unable
to retrieve him because the bathroom door was locked; (8) Decedent was
unresponsive when medical staff reached him; (9) Decedent was transferred to PRMC’s
Intensive Care Unit (“ICU”); and (10) Decedent never came back to consciousness
and passed away on January 13, 2022, as a result of Defendants’ acts and
omissions.
 
On April 05, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed their Complaint alleging three causes of action against PRMC. 
 
On June 14, 2023, PRMC filed a
Demurrer with Motion to Strike. 
 
On July 21, 2023, before the
Demurrer with Motion to Strike was heard, Plaintiffs filed their First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”). The FAC added Dr. Sethi as a defendant and alleged three
causes of action for: (1) Wrongful Death against all defendants; (2) Survivor
Cause of Action – Medical Negligence against all defendants; and (3) Survivor
Cause of Action – Negligence: Premises Liability against PRMC.
 
On August 23, 2023, PRMC filed
this Demurrer, subsequently overruled. 
 
On October 19, 2023, Plaintiff
filed two Amendments to the Complaint changing the fictious name of Doe 1 to
Envision Healthcare Corporation and Doe 2 to Envision Physician Services, LLC. 
 
On December 04, 2023, dismissed
Envision Healthcare Corporation and Envision Physician Services, LLC. 
 
On February 06, 2024, Dr. Sethi’s
Ex Parte Application to Continue Trial was granted. 
 
On February 27, 2024, Plaintiff
filed this Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint.
 
On March 19, 2024, PRMC filed its
Opposition. 
 
On March 25, 2024, Plaintiff
filed her Reply. 
 
-----
 
Legal Standard
 
Standard for Leave to Amend – “A party may amend its pleading once
without leave of the court at any time before the answer, demurrer, or motion
to strike is filed, or after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed but before
the demurrer or motion to strike is heard if the amended pleading is filed and
served no later than the date for filing an opposition to the demurrer or
motion to strike. A party may amend the pleading after the date for filing an
opposition to the demurrer or motion to strike, upon stipulation by the
parties. The time for responding to an amended pleading shall be computed from
the date of service of the amended pleading.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
472(a).)¿ 
 
Trial courts may, in furtherance of justice
and on any proper terms, allow a party to amend any pleading. (Cal. Code Civ.
Proc., §473(a)(1); Branick v. Downey Savings & Loan Association
(2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 242.) Trial courts may also, in their discretion and
after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like
terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code. (Cal.
Code Civ. Proc., §473(a); Branick, supra, 39 Cal.4th at 242.) Leave to
amend is generally liberally granted, provided there is no statute of
limitations concern. (Kolani v. Gluska (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 402, 411.)
Additionally, “judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the
same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.
App. 3d 1045, 1047.) Trial courts may deny the plaintiff’s leave to amend if
there is prejudice to the opposing party, such as delay in trial, loss of
critical evidence, or added costs of preparation. (Branic, supra, at
242.)¿ 
 
Under California Rules of Court Rule 3.1324,
a motion to amend a pleading before trial must (1) include a copy of the
proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located;
and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324(a).) A
separate supporting declaration specifying (1) the effect of the amendment; (2)
why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reason why the request for
amendment was not made earlier must accompany the motion. (Id., Rule
3.1324(b).)¿ 
¿
-----
 
Discussion
 
Application – Plaintiffs
seek leave to amend to add three causes of action to the pleadings: (1) Breach of
Fiduciary Duty; (2) Fraudulent Concealment; and (3) Misrepresentation, as well
as to expand the allegations in its operative First Amended Complaint
(“Complaint”) based on information recently obtained in discovery in this
action. These changes include a request for punitive damages in the proposed
Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”).
 
Plaintiffs present that the
changes stem from responses received during discovery. Plaintiffs further
present that the motion is brought in good faith, the proposed amendments are
not futile and are necessary for Plaintiffs to vindicate the merits of their
claims, that there was no delay in bringing this motion, there will be no
prejudice, and the amendment involves an evolution in legal theory which would
make admissible evidence damaging to the opposing party is not the kind of
“prejudice” the court will consider. Plaintiffs describe the nature and basis
of the amendments and argue that all causes of action relate back to
allegations within the FAC. Filed concurrently with the motion is a declaration
from Plaintiffs’ counsel, Kat Kazemi (“Kazemi”) which appears to address the
requirements set out in California
Rules of Court Rule 3.1324.
 
PRMC argues that while amendments may be liberally allowed, the
trial court’s discretion will not be disturbed on appeal unless it has clearly
been abused and it is proper for a court to deny leave to amend if a proposed
amendment fails to state a cause of action or if the amendment will be futile. PRMC
argues that (1) as to the proposed Breach of Fiduciary Care claim, it is
written as on behalf of the Estate of Decedent and alleges only damages to
Susan; (2) as to the proposed claim for Fraudulent Concealment, the proposed
claim fails to allege that PRMC failed to disclose any of the allegations to
Decedent, that PRMC intended to defraud Decedent, and that Decedent would not
acted as he did if he had known of the above listed alleged concealed or
suppressed facts and that proposed pleading once again mentions Susan though it
is only on behalf of Decedent’s Estate; and (3) as to the claim for
Misrepresentation, the proposed SAC does not allege specific facts (i.e., ow,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered) and
that the cause of action is alleged by Susan and does not apply to “Plaintiffs”
in the plural. PRMC argues that none of the claims can be rectified by
amendment. PRMC also argues that as Plaintiffs fail to state facts sufficient
to constitute any of the proposed additional causes of action, Plaintiffs’
prayers for exemplary and punitive damages fail as a matter of law.
 
Plaintiffs argue that PRMC
provides no valid arguments as the arguments are more suited for a demurrer
than leave to amend the complaint. Plaintiffs further argue that when a family
member is incapacitated or passes away, the fiduciary duties that arise from
that relationship extend to the family members of the patient under Wohlgemuth
v. Meyer (1956) 139 Cal.App.2d 326, and so, PRMC owed a fiduciary duty to
Decedent and Susan. Plaintiffs present that PRMC does not dispute that they
never submitted the statutory required adverse event report and that they
failed to notify the coroner that a death occurred at their facility pursuant
to Cal. Health & Saf. Code §102850. Plaintiffs emphasize that PRMC
acknowledges “a right to “any penalties or punitive damages the decedent would
have been entitled to recover had the decedent lived.” (Opposition at 5).”
(Reply 3:12-14.) Plaintiffs also argue that Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 377.34, as
amended in 2022, allows Susan to recover all damages for the deceased party. Plaintiff
presents that her proposed claim for fraudulent concealment is viable as the
information produced in discovery provide a basis for the claim. Plaintiff also
that her prayer for punitive damages are derivative and survive as her fraud
claims are properly pled.    
 
As to PRMC’s first argument, the
Court notes that Susan is in the action individually, as the Administrator of
Decedent’s Estate, and as Decedent’s Successor in Interest. It is unclear,
based on the substance of the pleading, whether the claim is meant to be on
behalf of Susan. The Court notes that this is not the first time this has
occurred as the FAC alleges a survivor action written as brought by Susan alone
but alleging a survivor cause of action. (See FAC at First Cause of Action
Header and ¶ 30; see also Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 377.30.) “The law respects
form less than substance.” (See Cal. Civ. Code § 3528.) Thus, it appears in
either case that the claim of Fraudulent Concealment may be rectified. The
Court inquires. 
 
As to PRMC’s second argument, “the
elements of an action for fraud and deceit based on a concealment are:(1) the
defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3)the
defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent
to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact
and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed
fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the
plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Boschma v. Home Loan Center, Inc.
(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 230, 248.) The proposed SAC lists various facts that
were allegedly not disclosed. The proposed facts do switch between the plural
use of “Plaintiffs,” actions directed at Susan, as well as actions directed at
Decedent. It is unclear as to which Plaintiff this proposed claim applies to.
The damages alleged are as to Susan only. (See Proposed SAC ¶ 116.) However,
the claim is written as brought by Decedent’s Estate. (See Proposed SAC Fifth
Cause of Action Header.) As the claim is unclear, it appears that this, too,
may be rectified by amendment. 
 
Finally, as to PRMC’s third
argument, there are two forms of misrepresentation. Plaintiff’s proposed sac
alleges intentional misrepresentation. (See Proposed SAC ¶¶ 122-24.) “The
elements of fraud that will give rise to a tort action for deceit are: “ ‘(a) misrepresentation
(false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity
(or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.’ ” (Engalla v. Permanente
Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974; see also Service by
Medallion, Inc. v. Clorox Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1807, 1816.) Plaintiff
has alleged that PRMC intentionally failed to disclose: (1) Decedent was able
to detach the wires on his body for a self-search of the closest bathroom, (2) PRMC
staff only first discovered Decedent was alone in the PRMC emergency department
bathroom upon hearing an individual breathing laboriously behind the bathroom
door but unable to get out, and (3) PRMC’s emergency room staff did not have
ready access to the key to the PRMC bathroom door in the emergency department
to unlock it, nor the fact that the key was nowhere to be found by the PRMC
staff in the emergency department. (Proposed SAC ¶¶ 122-24.) However, it also
appears that the gravamen of the claim is that PRMC informed Susan that
Decedent was supervised at every minute and that the alleged failures indicate
otherwise. Though not written as clearly as possible, the claim for
misrepresentation alleges that (1) PRMC falsely represented to Susan that
Decedent was being supervised, (2) the allegations in paragraphs 122 to 124 in
the proposed SAC show knowledge of the falsity, and (3) intent may exist as “fraudulent
intent is an issue for the trier of fact to decide” (Beckwith v. Dahl (2012)
205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1061; see also Proposed SAC ¶ 128); and (4) damages in
the form of Susan’s continued extreme state of unrest, frustration,
uncertainty, and emotional distress. Reliance is unclear as paragraph 130,
which alleges the reliance, jumps from Decedent’s death to autopsy. As with the
other claims this, too, may be rectified by amendment. 
 
As the claims may be rectified,
there is a potential basis for punitive damages as the punitive damages are
derivative of the proposed causes of action. 
 
It is the Court’s intent to grant
this motion upon the filing of a new proposed SAC that address the current
deficiencies in the attached proposed SAC. 
 
-----
 
Conclusion
 
It is the Court’s intent to grant this motion upon the
filing of a new proposed SAC that address the current deficiencies in the
attached proposed SAC.


