 Case Number:  23STCV13803B    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


June 10, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV13803




MOTIONS


Demurrer to Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Google LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
Defendant Google
LLC (“Defendant”) demurs to the complaint filed by Plaintiff Virginia Hoge
(“Plaintiff”).  Defendant previously
removed the action to federal court.  The
United States District Court dismissed Plaintiff’s claims to the extent
Plaintiff premised them on federal law, and remanded Plaintiff’s remaining
claims for cyber spying and cyber harassment based on California law.  (See Notice of Remand, filed February 26,
2024.)
 
ANALYSIS
“It is black
letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) In
ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the allegations of
the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.” (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
Plaintiff alleges,
“Beginning in 2010 the Plaintiff began to be stalked, harassed, and spied on
online by trolls - hired abusers who post anonymously - connected with Chris
Tolles, CEO of Topix.com.  This crime was
facilitated and supported by Eric Schmidt, CEO of Google.”  (Complaint, p. 2.)  These are the only allegations in Plaintiff’s
complaint pertaining to liability on Defendant’s part.  While Plaintiff asserts multiple causes of
action in her complaint, Plaintiff fails to indicate which causes of action
Plaintiff asserts against Defendant.  In
a complaint, “[e]ach separately stated cause of action . . . must specifically
state: [¶] (1) Its number (e.g., “first cause of action”); [¶] (2) Its nature
(e.g., “for fraud”); [¶] (3) The party asserting it if more than one party is
represented on the pleading (e.g., “by plaintiff Jones”); and [¶] (4) The party
or parties to whom it is directed (e.g., “against defendant Smith”).” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 2.112.)  As
Plaintiff fails to specify which causes of action Plaintiff asserts against
Defendant and which allegations about Defendant Plaintiff claims support those
causes of action, Plaintiff’s complaint is uncertain.  The demurrer to the complaint is, therefore,
sustained, but Plaintiff is given the opportunity to amend the complaint.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint is sustained with leave to amend.  Plaintiff is to file an amended complaint
within 10 days of the notice of this order. 
Defendant is ordered to provide such notice and to file proof of service
thereof. 
 