  Case Number:  22STCV30451    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  39 Background
On September 16, 2022, Plaintiff
Marta Lopez filed her initial complaint against
her former employer, SCPMG (Defendant), and
non-employers Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (“KFH”) and Kaiser Foundation Health
Plan, Inc. (“KFHP”) (collectively, Defendants).
 
In the initial complaint, plaintiff alleged
causes of action for wrongful termination in violation of public policy, age discrimination,
race discrimination, and failure to prevent discrimination. All four causes of
action stemmed from allegations that plaintiff’s former manager concocted false
reasons to terminate plaintiff’s employment so that Plaintiff could be replaced
with “a younger, full time social worker for significantly less [pay] than what
plaintiff was earning…” (Complaint, ¶ 25.) After the Defendants filed a
demurrer and motion to strike, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint on
November 18, 2022. 
 
On March 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
instant motion for leave to amend to file Second Amended Complaint. On May 28,
2024, Defendant filed the opposition. On June 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed her
reply. 
 
Judicial Notice 
Defendant seeks judicial notice
for the following documents: 
·      
Plaintiff’s Complaint filed in this case on
September 16, 2022 
·      
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint filed in
this case on November 18, 2022 
·      
Defendants’ Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint, filed in this case on December 16, 2022
·      
Minute Order dated February 7, 2023 in this case
·      
SCPMG’s Motion for Summary Judgment Or In The
Alternative, Summary Adjudication of Issues filed in this case on January 10,
2024 
·      
Minute Order dated March 8, 2024 in this case 
·      
Minute Order dated April in this case 
·      
Exhibit K to SCPMG’s Motion for Summary Judgment
The
copies of documents provided by Defendants are judicially noticeable under
Evidence Code sections 451 and 452. The court takes judicial notice of the
specified documents, though not necessarily the facts stated therein.
  
Legal Standard
“A court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any
pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) Such amendment may occur “at
any time before or after commencement of trial.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.) The
court’s discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendments of
the pleadings. (Nestle v. City of Santa Monica (1972) 6 Cal.3d 920,
939.)¿ “A motion to amend a pleading before trial must . . . [s]tate what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and [s]tate what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.”¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).)[1]
The declaration must also specify the amendment’s effect, why it is necessary
and proper, when the facts supporting the amended allegations were discovered,
and why the request was not made earlier.¿ (Rule 3.1324(b).)¿
Discussion
A.             
Merits
Plaintiff moves for leave to file a
Second Amended Complaint to add new causes of action for Retaliation in
Violation of Labor Code §1102.5 and Retaliation in Violation of Health &
Safety Code §1278.5. Plaintiff also includes the changes to the factual
allegations. 
Defendant argues Plaintiff’s motion
does not comply with Rule 3.1324. Defendant also argues Plaintiff unreasonably
delayed in seeking leave to amend, and Plaintiff’s new cause of action for
retaliation is based on facts Plaintiff knew from the outset of the case.
Moreover, Defendant asserts the proposed amendment to include a new cause of
action for retaliation would be futile because Plaintiff failed to allege
sufficient facts to state a valid claim in any event. Additionally, Plaintiff’s
attempt to reinsert two non-employer defendants in defiance of the trial Court’s
order dismissing those non-employer defendants from the case must be rejected.
Defendant adds it would be prejudicial to grant the motion while a motion for summary
judgment is scheduled to be heard. 
As an initial matter, the court
notes Plaintiff satisfied the requirements of Rule 3.1324 in this instance. (See
Mot. at p. 5; Cervantes Anderson Decl., ¶¶3,11,12, and 14.) If the party
seeking the amendment has needlessly delayed, and the delay has prejudiced the
opposing party, the court has the discretion to deny leave to amend.¿ (See Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)¿ Prejudice exists where
the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical
evidence, or added costs of preparation.¿(Solit v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York
Branch (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)¿¿
The court finds Plaintiff has not
needlessly delayed the amendment because she explains she discovered the facts upon
which the amendment is based during a February 2024 deposition. (Cervantes
Anderson Decl., ¶¶ 10, 11.) Given the discovery issues the parties have
chronicled in this litigation, Plaintiff’s representations in this regard are
not unreasonable.  Plaintiff’s counsel
also notes she was her ill mother’s caretaker which resulted in the late
depositions. Plaintiff filed the instant motion on March 7, 2024.  Therefore, the amendment was not needlessly
delayed. Moreover, even if there were a delay, Defendant failed to provide
evidence it would be prejudiced by Plaintiff being permitted to amend the
complaint at this juncture of the litigation. 
For instance, Defendant only states it will be forced to reopen
Plaintiff’s deposition, take additional discovery, and be denied the time to
seek resolution through a motion for summary judgment. Admittedly, allowing
Plaintiff to file an amended complaint could impact the case as Defendant suggests.
However, at this point in the litigation, that does not overcome providing Plaintiff
the opportunity to conform her complaint in keeping with discovery which is
still open. 
Conclusion
Therefore, the court grants Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to
Amend First Amended Complaint. Plaintiff is ordered to file the Second Amended
Complaint within 10 days of this Order and to give notice of the court’s
ruling. 


