 Case Number:  23STCV13803    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  39 TENTATIVE RULING       DEPARTMENT   39     HEARING DATE   June 10, 2024     CASE NUMBER   23STCV13803     MOTIONS   Demurrer to Complaint     MOVING PARTY   Defendant Chris Tolles     OPPOSING PARTY   None      MOTION Defendant Chris  Tolles (“Defendant”) moves for judgment on the pleadings on the complaint filed  by Plaintiff Virginia Hoge (“Plaintiff”).   Defendant Google, LLC removed the action to  federal court.  The United States  District Court dismissed Plaintiff’s claims to the extent Plaintiff premised  them on federal law, and remanded Plaintiff’s remaining claims for cyber spying  and cyber harassment based on California law.   (See Notice of Remand, filed February 26, 2024.)   ANALYSIS A motion for  judgment on the pleadings has the same function as a general demurrer, but may  be made after the time to demur has expired. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.  (f).)  “Like a demurrer, the grounds for  the motion [for judgment on the pleadings] must appear on the face of the  challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to take  judicial notice.” (Civic Partners  Stockton, LLC v. Youssefi (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1005, 1013.)  In ruling on a motion for judgment on the  pleadings, “[a]ll allegations in the complaint and matters upon which judicial  notice may be taken are assumed to be true.” (Rippon v. Bowen (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1313.)  Plaintiff alleges,  “Beginning in 2010 the Plaintiff began to be stalked, harassed and spied on  online by trolls - hired abusers who post anonymously - connected with [Defendant],  CEO of Topix.com.  This crime was  facilitated and supported by Eric Schmidt, CEO of Google.”  (Complaint, p. 2.)  Plaintiff further alleges Defendant “hired  the trolls to attack the Plaintiff.”  (Ibid.)  These are the only allegations in Plaintiff’s  complaint pertaining to any liability on Defendant’s part.   While Plaintiff asserts  multiple causes of action in her complaint, Plaintiff fails to indicate which causes  of action Plaintiff asserts against Defendant.   In a complaint, “[e]ach separately stated cause of action . . . must  specifically state: [¶] (1) Its number (e.g., “first cause of action”); [¶] (2)  Its nature (e.g., “for fraud”); [¶] (3) The party asserting it if more than one  party is represented on the pleading (e.g., “by plaintiff Jones”); and [¶] (4)  The party or parties to whom it is directed (e.g., “against defendant Smith”).”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.112.)  As  Plaintiff fails to specify which causes of action Plaintiff asserts against  Defendant and which allegations about Defendant Plaintiff claims support those  causes of action, Plaintiff’s complaint is uncertain.  Thus, the court grants Defendant’s motion for  judgment on the pleadings but provides Plaintiff an opportunity to amend.   CONCLUSION AND ORDER Defendant’s motion  for judgment on the pleadings on Plaintiff’s complaint is granted with leave to  amend.  Plaintiff is to file an amended  complaint within 10 days of the notice of this order.  Defendant is ordered to provide such notice  and to file proof of service thereof. 