 Case Number:  23VECV02493    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  T ABIR COHEN V MANUWAL
23VECV02493
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants Manuwal & Manuwal and Robert
Manuwal’s Petition to Compel Arbitration and for Stay of Proceedings is DENIED.
Defendants Manuwal & Manuwal and Robert Manuwal’s Request for Judicial
Notice is GRANTED but not as to any hearsay or facts in dispute. 
Introduction
Defendants Manual & Manuwal
(M&M) and Robert Manuwal (Manuwal) (collectively, Defendants) moved to
compel arbitration with Plaintiffs Abir Cohen Treyzon Sal LLP (ACTS) and Neil
Itzik Adrabi (Adrabi) (collectively, Plaintiffs) and to stay the action.  Alternatively, Defendants requested Adrabi be
compelled to arbitration and an order to staying all non-compelled claims.   Defendants' reply was due October 26, 2023
but none was filed. 
Discussion 
As to ACTS, the Attorney-Client
Contingent Fee Contract (Contract), which included an Arbitration Agreement,
does not show that ACTS was a client/contracting party and Defendants did not
sufficiently show the existence of an Arbitration Agreement with ACTS.  (Manuwal Decl. par. 5, Exh. B.)  Instead Defendants argued that the
Arbitration Agreement is enforceable against ACTS because of the equitable
estoppel exception and the agency exception. 
However, equitable estoppel is inapplicable to the instant situation
because Defendants (the moving parties) are signatories to the Arbitration
Agreement and ACTS is the non-signatory. 
The equitable estoppel doctrine applies when a non-signatory defendant
seeks to enforce an arbitration agreement that it is not a party to.  Garcia v. Pexco, LLC (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th
782, 786.)  The legal authority does not
support Defendants’ contention as to equitable estoppel. 
Even if equitable estoppel could
be grounds to allow Defendants to enforce arbitration against ACTS, the Court
finds that ACTS claims are not intimately founded in and not intertwined with
the Contract as between Adrabi and Defendants. 
There is insufficient showing that Defendants and ACTS represented
Adrabi at the same time and under the same Contract – ACTS is not a party to
the underlying Contract.  In the
underlying litigation, Defendants representation of Adrabi was terminated and
thereafter ACTS representation of Adrabi began. 
The two representations were not concurrent.  Because the claims by Plaintiff and ACTS
against Defendants arise from separate agreements for representation at
separate times during the underlying litigation, the equitable estoppel
exception is inapplicable.
As to the agency exception, the
exception states: “when a plaintiff alleges a defendant acted as an agent of a
party to an arbitration agreement, the defendant may enforce the agreement even
though the defendant is not a party thereto.” 
(Garcia v. Pexco, LLC (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 782, 788 quoting Thomas v.
Westlake (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 605, 613.) 
The agency exception is not applicable because Defendants, even though
an agent of Plaintiff, is a party to the arbitration agreement.  The agency exception works to allow a
non-signatory defendant to move for arbitration.  The legal authority cited by Defendants does
not support their contention. 
The motion to compel as to ACTS
is DENIED. 
As to Adrabi, Defendants
presented facts to show entry into the Contract with Adrabi wherein an
Arbitration Agreement was included. 
(Manuwal Decl. par. 5, Exh. B.) 
Defendants met their burden to show that an Arbitration Agreement exists
with Adrabi.  The burden shifts to Adrabi
to dispute the Arbitration Agreement. 
Adrabi argued that the Court
should use its discretionary authority to deny arbitration because of the
third-party litigation exception (i.e., ACTS concurrent claims against
Defendants).  (Code Civ. Proc., sec.
1281.2(c).)  The exception requires a
showing that the parties to the Arbitration Agreement are also parties to a
pending court action; the pending court action arises out of the same
transaction or series of related transactions; and there is a possibility of
conflicting rulings on common issues of law or fact.  (Id.) 
Without a Reply from Defendants, it is undisputed that Plaintiff and
Defendants are parties to the instant action with ACTS; that the issues arise
out of a series of related transactions (i.e., both Defendants and ACTS
represented Plaintiff in the underlying action); and there is a possibility of
conflicting rulings.  There is sufficient
showing that the exception under Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2(c)
applies. 
The Court has several options
when Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2(c) applies.  The Court “(1) may refuse to enforce the
arbitration agreement and may order intervention or joinder of all parties in a
single action or special proceeding; (2) may order intervention or joinder as
to all or only certain issues; (3) may order arbitration among the parties who
have agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action or special
proceeding pending the outcome of the arbitration proceeding; or (4) may stay
arbitration pending the outcome of the court action or special
proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc., sec.
1281.2(d)(1)-(4).) 
Both the pending court action and
the proposed arbitration are centered on the Defendants’ alleged right to
attorney fees and costs. The proposed arbitration is to adjudicate the
Defendants’ alleged right to attorney fees and costs (see Petition, at 9:11-18)
and “seek to . . . compel arbitration  of
both Plaintiffs’ disputes raised in the pending Complaint . . .” (see Petition,
at 9:24-27). The pending court action:
** “seeks an order rescinding the
Fee Agreement, that Defendants are not entitled to attorneys’ fees or that
Defendants are entitled to a reduced award of attorneys’ fees and costs.”
** “seek[s] a declaratory relief
judgment to ascertain the respective rights and duties in relation to
Defendants’ claim for fees and costs.”
** “seek[s] to reduce Manuwal
& Manuwal’s entitlement to an award of attorneys’  fees or, alternatively, ‘Plaintiffs’ Adrabi
and ACTS seek to invalidate the Fee Agreement altogether.”
Petition, at 7:12-14, 7:23-24,
9:19-21.
Also, there is a possibility of
conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. The central dispute in
both the pending court action and the proposed arbitration is the extent to
which the Defendants are entitled to attorney fees and costs. It is possible
that there could be conflicting  rulings
on this central issue if the issue were to be arbitrated and then litigated in
court.
Given that all three of the
requirements in CCP § 1281.2(c) are satisfied, the Court is authorized by CCP §
1281.2 to “refuse to enforce the arbitration agreement.” For good cause shown
above and the possibility of conflicting rulings, the Court exercises its
discretion to deny arbitration. The motion to compel arbitration and stay the
action as to Adrabi is DENIED. 
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.
 