 Case Number:  23VECV02935    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  T LEVI STRAUSS V ZILBERSTEIN
23VECV02935
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants Amy and Ira Leibowitz’s Demurrer
to the Complaint is OVERRULED as to the first cause of action; and SUSTAINED
WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND as to the second cause of action ONLY and not to
make any other amendments.
Introduction 
Defendants Amy Leibowitz (Amy )
and Ira Leibowitz (Ira) (collectively, Defendants) demurred to Plaintiff Levi
Strauss & Co.’s (Plaintiff) Complaint. 
Defendants’ demurrer placed into issue the first cause of action (COA)
for declaratory judgment and the second COA for modification of judgment to add
judgment creditors.  
Discussion  
Defendants argued that the first
COA for declaratory relief is pled with insufficient factual allegations and is
uncertain because the requested declaratory relief is retrospective; and
improperly seeks a determination of rights among the Defendants, as exemplified
in Complaint paragraph 25.  However,
Defendants arguments are grounded on a very narrow reading of the allegations
and requests made in the Complaint. 
Although Complaint paragraph 25 can be interpreted as Plaintiff
requesting a determination of a partnership among or between the Defendants,
Plaintiff expressly requested a determination that “(i) each of the Defendants
was in partnership with D6 [Division 6] in pursuit of the Litigation; and (ii)
each of the Defendants is jointly and severally liable for the Judgment, plus
post-judgment interest.”  (Compl. par.
28.)  Further, Plaintiff’s request is not
seen as being retrospective because Plaintiff alleged that Defendants are
currently denying their liability on the Judgment entered against D6.  (Id.) 
Because Defendants’ argument misinterpreted the allegations in the
Complaint, the demurrer to the first COA is unpersuasive.
The demurrer to the first COA is
OVERRULED.
Defendants argued that the second
COA to add alter egos as judgment debtors is insufficiently supported with
factual allegations because: (1) the pleading elements to support the alter ego
claim are conclusory; (2) control over the underlying litigation that is more
than mere funding and is more than mere CEO capacity.    
The pleadings elements of alter
ego liability are:  (1) a unity of
interest and ownership between the corporation and its equitable owner that the
separate personalities of the corporation and the shareholder do not in reality
exist and (2) whether there would be an inequitable result if the acts in
question are treated as those of the corporation alone.  (VirtualMagic Asia, Inc. v. Fil–Cartoons,
Inc. (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 228, 244.) 
Plaintiff alleged that Defendants are the alter ego of judgment debtor
D6 and that Defendants had a unity of interest with D6 in the
filing/prosecuting of the underlying litigation.  (Compl. pars. 4 and 29.)  Plaintiff further alleged that Defendants owned
D6 based upon the factual allegation that 
Defendants would share in the proceeds from the underlying litigation
(Compl. 4, 29.)  These are allegations of
ultimate fact and not conclusory. 
Further, as to the element of inequitable result, it is undisputed that
Plaintiff’s alter ego allegation is partly based upon their status as an
unsatisfied judgment creditor, however, the allegations further plead that
Defendants divided up D6 and/or D6 assets so that it was no longer in business,
except as a litigant.  (Compl. par. 15.)  Making D6, a judgment debtor, insolvent is an
inequitable result.  Plaintiff
sufficiently pled the elements to support alter ego.  
Defendant argued that there are
no facts pled to support the factors in determining alter ego liability (i.e.,
inadequate capitalization, commingling of funds and other assets, the holding
out by one entity that it is liable for the debts of the other, identical
equitable ownership in the two entities, use of one as a mere conduit for the
affairs of the other, disregard of corporate formalities, lack of segregation
of corporate records, and identical directors and officers.)  However, these factors are not pleading
elements of alter ego liability but the facts to prove up alter ego
liability.  At this pleading stage,
Plaintiff sufficiently pled the two elements of alter ego liability.  
Defendants then argued that there
are insufficient facts pled to show that Defendants controlled the underlying
litigation.  Plaintiff alleged that
Defendants, in a completely separate action as between Co-Defendants Ahron
Zilberstein (Zilberstein) and 72 Van Nuys, LLC (Van Nuys) on the one hand, and
Defendants on the other hand, pled that it was Zilberstein that advocated the
underlying litigation; Zilberstein selected the attorneys to represent D6; and
Zilberstein was the driving force behind the litigation.  (Compl. par. 13.)  These allegations present factual pleading to
show that Co-Defendant Zilberstein controlled the underlying litigation and
potentially Defendants, as a partner in D6, may have controlled the underlying
litigation.  However, there are no facts
alleged to show that Defendants, as individuals – separate and apart from the
partnership – controlled the litigation. 
It is noted that Plaintiff’s first COA recognized the separateness of D6
and Defendants by alleging Defendants’ partnership with D6.  However, the second COA is grounded on the
allegation that D6 was a mere front and the separateness of D6 and Defendants,
as individuals, did not exist (i.e., alter ego theory).  In that Plaintiff is alleging in the second
COA that Defendants are essentially D6, Plaintiff must plead some facts to show
that Defendants, as individuals, controlled the underlying litigation.  Because there are insufficient facts to
allege control by Defendants, as individuals and separate from the partnership
with D6, the second COA is insufficiently pled. 
Defendants’ arguments as to the second COA is persuasive on this
pleading defect.
Defendants further argued that
Ira, as a corporate officer, is insufficient to eviscerate the separateness of
the corporate entity of D6.  However,
this argument is grounded on facts not alleged in the Complaint.  The Complaint did not allege that Defendant
Ira was the CEO of D6.  Plaintiff only
alleged that Ira was a “partner” in D6. 
(Compl. pars. 8, 12,  and
13.)  Because the argument is grounded on
facts not appearing in the four corners of the Complaint, the argument is
unpersuasive.
The Demurrer to the second COA is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.