 Case Number:  24VECV01906    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  T 24VECV01906 McGuire v American Honda
Tentative ruling: Motion to compel deposition of PMQ
and production of documents: Grant in part as explained below.
The court orders defendant to produce those of its officers,
directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to
testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information
known or reasonably available to the deponent as to the following categories.
The deposition shall take place via Zoom on 1/3/2025 at 10
a.m.
Monetary sanctions would have been awarded against defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc. for discovery abuse without substantial
justification had the plaintiff anywhere in his moving papers asked for a
specific dollar amount.  Without notice
of a specific amount, the court denies the request for an unspecified amount of
sanctions. 
Ruling on categories for the deposition
1. Plaintiff, MELVIN MCGUIRE’s (“Plaintiff”) requests for
repurchase of the 2022 Acura TLX bearing VIN: 19UUB6F61NA000120, (“Subject
Vehicle” is 2022 Acura TLX, having VIN No.: 19UUB6F61NA000120): Grant.
2. AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC.’s (“Defendant”) policies,
procedures, or other guidelines regarding responding to consumer complaints in
which the consumer alleges that MELVIN MCGUIRE’s vehicle is defective from 2016
to date of filing of the complaint: Grant in part only as to those in effect
from 2022 to date of filing of the complaint applicable to California Lemon Law
which covers 2022 Acura TLXs.
3. All COMMUNICATIONS with Plaintiff: Grant.
4. Defendant’s response to Plaintiff’s request for vehicle
repurchase: Grant.
5. Defendant’s research and investigation, if any, regarding
Plaintiff’s request for a vehicle repurchase. Grant.
6. All COMMUNICATIONS between Defendant and its agents or
authorized repair facilities regarding the Subject Vehicle: Grant.
7. All COMMUNICATIONS between Defendant and any third
parties regarding the Subject Vehicle: Grant.
8. All warranty claims made to Defendant with regard to the
Subject Vehicle: Grant.
9. All repairs and services performed on the Subject
Vehicle: Grant.
10. All documents that Defendant reviewed, if any, in
determining Defendant’s response to any of Plaintiff’s buyback requests. This
topic includes, but is not limited to:
i. which DOCUMENTS were reviewed;
ii. when they were reviewed;
iii. by whom they were reviewed;
iv. any written reports or other DOCUMENTS that were created
summarizing or otherwise reporting the results of such investigations;
v. any oral reports that were made summarizing or otherwise
reporting the results of such investigation; and
vi. any memorandum or emails drafted regarding Plaintiffs’
request and/or Defendant’s investigation and response: Grant except as to
attorney client confidential communications.
11. All documents that Defendant reviewed, if any, in
investigating the cause of the complaints alleged regarding the Subject
Vehicle: Grant.
12. All persons that Defendant talked to, interviewed, or
made any other type of inquiries from in determining Defendant’s response to
any of Plaintiff’s buyback requests: Grant except as to attorney client
confidential communications.
13. Any other investigation that Defendant conducted in
determining Defendant’s response to any of Plaintiff’s buyback requests: Grant
except as to attorney work product and attorney client confidential
communications.
14. All investigations or other analysis that Defendant
performed to determine the cause of the problems complained of by Plaintiff
regarding the Subject Vehicle. This topic includes, but is not limited to:
vii. which DOCUMENTS were reviewed;
viii. when they were reviewed;
ix. by whom they were reviewed;
x. any written reports or other DOCUMENTS that were created
summarizing or otherwise reporting the results of such investigations;
xi. any oral reports that were made summarizing or otherwise
reporting the results of such investigation; and
xii. any memorandum or emails drafted regarding Plaintiffs’
request and/or Defendant’s investigation and response: Grant but only up
until the date of filing of the complaint, and not as to attorney client
confidential communications and attorney work product.
15. All telephone calls made by anyone, including Plaintiff,
to Defendant’s 1-800 customer assistance number regarding the Subject Vehicle: Grant.
16. All policies, procedures, or other guidelines regarding
recording calls made to Defendant's 1-800 customer assistance number: Grant
in effect 2022-date of filing of the complaint which cover Acuras.
17. Defendant’s policies, procedures or other guidelines for
repurchasing or replacing vehicles under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty
Act: Grant in effect for 2022-2024 Acuras.
18. All documents, including all recordings, produced by
Defendant in this litigation thus far: Grant except as to attorney work
product and attorney client confidential communications.
19. The nature of Defendant’s relationship with the
company(s) that handles calls from consumers to Defendant’s 1-800 customer
assistance number: Grant as to the company and services the number
purportedly called by plaintiff in effect 2022-date of filing of the complaint.
20. The policies and procedures to be followed by the
customer service company(s) that handles calls to Defendant’s 1-800 customer
assistance number when receiving a call from a consumer regarding a Defendant’s
vehicle: Grant as it pertains to calls from 2022 to date of filing of the
complaint for Acuras sold in California.
21. Defendant’s oversight of the customer service company(s)
that handles calls to Defendant’s 1-800 customer assistance number: Grant as
it pertains to calls from 2022 to date of filing of the complaint for Acuras
sold in California.
22. Defendant’s policies and procedures for honoring
California Lemon Law buyback and replacement requests from 2016 to date of
filing of the complaint: Grant as it pertains to 2022 to date of filing of
the complaint for Acuras sold in California.
23. Defendant’s policies and procedures with regard to
informing consumers of their rights under the California Lemon Law when
customers call Defendant’s customer service center from 2016 to date of filing
of the complaint: Grant as it pertains from 2022 to date of filing of the
complaint for Acuras sold in California.
24. All tasks and duties Defendant authorized the company(s)
that handles Defendant’s 1-800 customer assistance service number to perform,
including but not limited to: handling; managing; implementing; decision
making; reviewing; and auditing of any claims related to a Defendant’s vehicles
pursuant to the Song-Beverly Act from 2016 to date of filing of the complaint: Grant
as it pertains to claims from 2022 to date of filing of the complaint for
Acuras sold in California.
25. Defendant’s ownership interest, including but not
limited to, its percentage of ownership in the company(s) authorized to handle
its 1-800 customer assistance number call line: Grant as of 2022 to date of
filing of the complaint as to the company which service the number that
plaintiff called.
26. The persons at the company(s) who handle Defendant’s
1-800 customer assistance number who have authority to offer a repurchase or
replacement of a vehicle under the Song Beverly Act in California: Grant as
of 2022-date of filing of the complaint for Acuras sold in California.
27. Any guidance provided by Defendant to the company(s)
that handle Defendant’s 1-800 customer assistance number as to what constitutes
a “non-conformity” under the Song-Beverly Act: Grant as of 2022-date of
filing of the complaint for Acuras sold in California.
28. Any guidance provided by Defendant to the company(s)
that handle Defendant’s 1- 800 customer assistance number as to what
constitutes a “reasonable number of repair attempts” under the Song-Beverly
Act: Grant as it pertains from 2022 to date of filing of the complaint for
Acuras sold in California.
29. All changes in Defendant’s policies and procedures
related to handling customer complaints under the Song-Beverly Act from 2016 to
date of filing of the complaint: Deny as overbroad.
30. Any and all facts supporting any and all of the
affirmative defenses that YOU have asserted or intend to assert in this action:
Deny as overbroad.
31. Any and all facts relating to Defendant’s decisions with
respect to Plaintiff’s buyback requests having to do with the Subject Vehicle
at any time: Grant only from the date of purchase to the date of filing the
complaint.
32. Any and all pleadings filed by Defendant in this Action:
Deny as overbroad and vague.
33. Any and all responses by Defendant to Plaintiff’s
discovery requests in this Action: Deny as overbroad and vague.
34. All DOCUMENTS (including all recordings) produced by
Defendant in this litigation thus far. This topic includes, but is not limited:
xiii. the interpretation and meaning of all terms used, and
data reported in such DOCUMENTS;
xiv. the source, including the author and creation date of
all such DOCUMENTS;
xv. the purpose for which such DOCUMENTS were authored or
created;
xvi. the practices and procedures for preparing such
DOCUMENTS, including the practices and procedures for measuring, recording, and
reporting all data contained therein;
xvii. the identities and location of all other persons who
have copies of said DOCUMENTS; and
xviii. the date upon which Defendant created, received, or
otherwise first came into possession of such DOCUMENTS: Deny as overbroad,
vague and violative of attorney client privilege and attorney work product.
 
Documents to be produced no later than 12/23/2024:
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 1:
Produce YOUR entire original file regarding the SUBJECT
VEHICLE. Deny as overbroad, vague, and violative of attorney work product
and attorney client privilege.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 2:
All DOCUMENTS that set forth Defendant’s policies,
procedures, or other guidelines (if any) regarding what Defendant’s authorized
repair facilities should do when a consumer complains that a Defendant’s
vehicle is defective. Grant as to Acura policies applicable to 2022 model
year vehicles in California.
The word “DOCUMENT” refers to all matters that would fall
within the definition of Evidence Code § 250, and includes written or printed
matter of any kind, including the originals and all non-identical copies
thereof, whether different from the original by reason of any notation made on
such copies or otherwise including, but not limited to, the following:
advertisements, booklets, brochures, pamphlets, circulars, notices,
periodicals, papers, contracts, agreements, photographs, minutes, memoranda,
messages, appraisals, analyses, reports, financial calculations and
representations, invoices, accounting and diary entries, inventory sheets,
diaries, appointment books or calendars, teletypes, facsimiles, ledgers, trial
balances, correspondence, telegrams, press releases, notes, working papers,
drawings, schedules, tabulations, projections, mails, information or programs
stored in a computer (whether or not ever printed out or displayed), and all
drafts, alterations, modifications, changes or amendments of any of the
foregoing, and all graphic or manual records or representations of any kind
including, but not limited to, the following:
microfiche, microfilm, audiotapes, videotapes, recordings
and motion pictures, and all electronic, mechanical, or electronic records or
representations of any kind including, but not limited to, the following:
tapes, cassettes, discs, magnetic cards, and recordings. This definition
explicitly includes electronic mail and other electronically-stored
information.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 3:
Produce all COMMUNICATIONS between YOU and LITHIA ACURA OF
SHERMAN OAKS, located at 5230 Van Nuys Blvd., Sherman Oaks, CA 91401, regarding
the SUBJECT VEHICLE. Grant.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 4:
All DOCUMENTS or files maintained by YOU regarding the
SUBJECT VEHICLE. Deny as overbroad and violative of attorney work product
and attorney client privilege.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 5:
All handwritten notes regarding Plaintiff’s requests that
Defendant repurchase the SUBJECT VEHICLE. Deny as overbroad and violative of
attorney work product and attorney client privilege.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 6:
All handwritten notes regarding the SUBJECT VEHICLE. Deny
as overbroad and violative of attorney work product and attorney client privilege.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 7:
All call logs regarding Plaintiff or the SUBJECT VEHICLE. Grant.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 8:
All DOCUMENTS setting forth the deponent’s job description.
Grant as to a written  job description
only.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 9:
All DOCUMENTS that Defendant reviewed in determining
Defendant’s response to Plaintiff’s buyback requests. Deny as overbroad and
vague.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 10:
All DOCUMENTS consulted or relied upon in preparing for this
deposition. Deny as overbroad and violative of attorney work product and
attorney client privilege.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 11:
All policy and procedure DOCUMENTS that Defendant made
available to its all PERSONS who are charged with determining whether a vehicle
qualifies for repurchase under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act on behalf
of Defendant. Grant as to Acura policies applicable to 2022 model year
vehicles in California.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 12:
All training materials provided to Defendant’s employees
regarding the handling of consumer requests for a vehicle repurchase. Grant
as to Acura policies applicable to 2022 model year vehicles in California.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 13:
All DOCUMENTS related to Defendant’s policies and procedures
for determining whether particular defects substantially impair the vehicle’s
use, value, of safety. Grant as to Acura policies applicable to 2022 model
year vehicles in California.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 14:
All DOCUMENTS related to Defendant’s policies and procedures
for determining what constitutes a reasonable number of opportunities to repair
a defect. Grant as to Acura policies applicable to 2022 model year vehicles
in California.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 15:
All Technical Service Bulletins (“TSB’s”) which have been
issued for vehicles of the same year, make, and vehicle model as the SUBJECT
VEHICLE. Deny as overbroad and seeking irrelevant information.
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION NO. 16:
ALL DOCUMENTS that support YOUR affirmative defenses that
YOU intend to assert in this action. Deny as overbroad and violative of
attorney work product and attorney client privilege.