

Hearing
Date:             February 26, 2024
Case
Name:                Saito v. Thayer
West LLC 
Case
No.:                    23STCV18525
Matter:                        Motion for Trial
Preference  
Moving Party:             Plaintiff Seiichi Saito as Guardian Ad Litem
for Plaintiff Julia Saito 

Responding
Party:      Defendants Payam Amin and Thayer West LLC


Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion for Trial
Preference is granted.

 
This is a
habitability case. This
lawsuit arises out of the alleged failure of Defendants Thayer West LLC and
Payam Amin to maintain and repair the property located at 1817 Thayer Ave., Los
Angeles, California 90025, where Plaintiffs resided (Property). Plaintiffs Seiichi Saito, Sophia
Saito, and Julia Saito (jointly, Plaintiffs) filed a
Complaint, alleging claims
for: (1) Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability; (2) Negligence; (3)
Nuisance; and (4) Violation of Civil Code Section 1942.4.
 
On January
29, 2024, Plaintiffs moved for trial preference pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 36, subdivision (b). Defendants opposed the motion. 
 
            The motion for trial
preference is granted.  
 
Legal
Standard 
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section 36,
subdivision (b) provides, “A civil action to recover damages for ... personal
injury shall be entitled to preference upon the motion
of any party to the action who is under 14 years of age unless the court finds
that the party does not have a substantial interest in the case as a whole.
A civil action subject to subdivision (a) shall be given preference over a case
subject to this subdivision.” 
 
The trial court has no discretion to
deny a motion filed under this section by a party under 14 years of age who has
a substantial interest in the case as a whole. (Peters v. Superior Court
(1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 218, 223–224.)
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff
moves for trial preference on behalf of minor, Julia Saito (Minor Plaintiff),
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 36, subdivision (b).  
 
            Plaintiff submits
evidence that Minor Plaintiff is 11 years old. (Seiichi Decl., ¶ 2; Ohn Decl.,
¶ 2, Ex. A.) The opposition does not dispute this evidence.
 
            Plaintiff
also submits evidence that Minor Plaintiff has a substantial interest in this
case as a whole because she suffered personal injuries as result of the uninhabitable
conditions. (Seiichi Decl., ¶¶ 3-5.) In opposition, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs
offer no supporting evidence beyond Plaintiff’s declaration to help establish
that the minor Plaintiff Julia Saito suffered any personal injuries or has
substantial interest in the case.
 
            While the
supporting evidence is somewhat vague, the Court cannot determine from this evidence
that Minor Plaintiff “does not have a substantial interest in the case as a
whole.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (b) [“shall be entitled to preference
upon the motion of any party to the action who is under 14 years of age unless
the court finds that the party does not have a substantial interest in the case
as a whole.”] [emphasis added].)
 
            Further,
Defendants’ reliance on Code of Civil Procedure section 36, subdivision (d), is
not well taken. Defendants note that Subdivision (d) of the statute allows for a trial
continuance of a party when there is doubt as to their ability to survive a
delay of six months. (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (d).) Under this
subdivision, the moving party must provide “clear and convincing medical
documentation” concluding that that the party’s survival is in doubt. (Ibid.)

 
That is, by its own terms, subdivision
(d) imposes a greater evidentiary burden than the other subdivisions. (Fox v.
Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 534 [“The standard under
[Code of Civil Procedure Section 36] subdivision (a), unlike under subdivision
(d), which is more specific and more rigorous, includes no requirement of a
doctor's declaration.”].) In fact, the absence of such an evidentiary
requirement section 36, subdivision (b) indicates that a lesser evidentiary showing is
adequate. 
 
Finally, Defendants
argue that granting the motion for trial preference and ordering trial within
120 days would violate their due process rights. Defendants contend that this
shortened time would be insufficient to take discovery and prepare for trial.
However, Defendants cite no legal authority that suggests these facts – even if
true – may affect whether to grant or deny this motion. 
 
Rather, the
ruling in Swaithes v. Superior Court (1989) 212
Cal.App.3d 1082 is instructive on this point. Although discussing trial preference
in the context of Subdivision (a), the court in Swaithes explained: “[f]ailure
to complete discovery or other pretrial matters does not affect the absolute
substantive right to trial preference for those litigants who qualify for
preference under subdivision (a) of section 36. The trial court has no power to
balance the differing interests of opposing litigants in applying the
provision. The express legislative mandate for trial preference is a
substantive public policy concern which supersedes such considerations.” (Id.
at pp. 1085–1086.) More succinctly, the court stated “[m]ere inconvenience to
the court or to other litigants is irrelevant.” (Id. at 1085.)
 
Thus, an
order granting Plaintiffs’ motion for trial preference is mandatory upon a
showing by Plaintiffs have met the requirements of Section 36, subdivision (b);
there is no weighing of interests involved.
 
Both sides
are advised that the trial date selected will be a firm date, diligence in
conducting discovery and preparing for trial will be expected, and any efforts
to impede or delay discovery will not be tolerated.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
the Court grants Plaintiffs’ motion for trial preference. Trial shall be set
within 120 days.
 