 Case Number:  24CHCV00361    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 11-1-24
Case #24CHCV00361 , Nicole Michelle Arrington vs. American
Honda Motor Company, Inc.
Trial Date: N/A
 
PETITION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
American Honda Motor Company, Inc.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff Nicole Michelle Arrington
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendant is
requesting that the Court compel the case to arbitration and stay the action.
 
RULING: Petition
to compel arbitration is denied.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
On February 5,
2024, Plaintiff Nicole Michelle Arrington (Plaintiff) filed this action against
Defendant American Honda Motor Company, Inc. (Defendant) for causes of action
related to violations of the Song-Beverly Warranty Act. Plaintiff has alleged five
causes of action for violations of the Song-Beverly Act against Defendant. The
dealership from which Plaintiff leased the vehicle, and which is the party to
the relevant Lease Agreement, is not named in Plaintiff’s complaint.
 
On May 10, 2024,
Defendant filed this petition to compel arbitration and stay the action.
Plaintiff opposes.
 
ANALYSIS
California law
incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-972.) The
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, the party opposing the petition
then bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact
necessary to demonstrate that there should be no enforcement of the agreement,
and the trial court sits as a trier of fact to reach a final determination on
the issue. (Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996)
14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The Court is empowered by CCP § 1281.2 to compel parties
to arbitrate disputes pursuant to an agreement to do so.   
 
CCP § 1281.2
states that: 
“The court shall order the petitioner and
the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement
to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: 
(a)
The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner;
or  
(b)
Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.  
(c) A party to the arbitration agreement
is also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third
party, arising out of the same transaction or series of related transactions
and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or
fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court action or special
proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the party refusing to
arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been filed, but on or
before the date of the hearing on the petition. This subdivision shall not be
applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes as to the professional
negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to Section 1295.” (CCP §
1281.2.)
 
The main
dispute in this case rests on the fact that Defendant was not a signatory to
the arbitration agreement in question, but Defendant argues that it should be
able to compel arbitration by virtue of the doctrine of equitable estoppel and
Defendant’s claim that it is a third-party beneficiary of the arbitration
agreement.
 
As a
preliminary matter, Defendant argues that the FAA should be applied to this
case. However, even if the FAA applies, “State law determines whether a
non-signatory to an agreement containing an arbitration clause may compel
arbitration.” (Ngo v. BMW of North America, LLC (9th Cir. 2022) 23 F.4th
942, 946.) “Although the FAA preempts any state law that stands as an obstacle
to its objective of enforcing arbitration agreements according to their terms,
…we apply general California contract law to determine whether the parties
formed a valid agreement to arbitrate their dispute.” (Avery v. Integrated
Healthcare Holdings, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 50, 59-60.) Because state
law determines whether a non-signatory to an agreement containing an
arbitration clause may compel arbitration, the Court will apply state law to this
case.
 
“Under that
doctrine [of equitable estoppel] …a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an
arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when
the causes of action against the nonsignatory are intimately founded in and
intertwined with the underlying contract obligations.” (JSM Tuscany, LLC v.
Superior Ct. (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1237, quoting Boucher v. All
Title Co. (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 262, 271 and Goldman v. KPMG, LLP
(2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 209, 217–18 (internal quotation marks omitted).) The
sine qua non for application of equitable estoppel as the basis for allowing a
nonsignatory to enforce an arbitration clause is, “that the claims plaintiff
asserts against the nonsignatory must be dependent upon, or founded in and inextricably
intertwined with, the underlying contractual obligations of the agreement
containing the arbitration clause.” (Goldman, supra, 173
Cal.App.4th at 217–18; accord, JSM Tuscany, LLC, supra, 193
Cal.App.4th at 1237.) “The fundamental point is that a party is not entitled to
make use of [a contract containing an arbitration clause] as long as it worked
to her advantage, then attempt to avoid its application in defining the forum
in which her dispute . . . should be resolved.” (Jensen v. U-Haul Co. of
Cal. (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 295, 306, quoting NORCAL Mut. Ins. Co. v.
Newton (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 64, 84 (internal quotation marks omitted).)
Courts examine the facts alleged in the operative complaint to determine
whether equitable estoppel applies. (Goldman, supra, 173
Cal.App.4th at 229–30.) 
 
In one case, an
arbitration agreement that was in the retail sales agreement was found to
extend to a nonsignatory car manufacturer because “the arbitration provision in
this case provides for arbitration of disputes that include third parties so
long as the dispute pertains to the condition of the vehicle.” (Felisilda v.
FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 640, 648.) 
 
The language of
the arbitration provision in the Lease Agreement between Plaintiff and the
dealership, Galpin Honda, mentions third parties and reads as follows:
“Any claim or dispute…between you and us
or our parents, subsidiaries, affiliates, employees, officers, agents,
representatives, predecessors, successors or assigns, (individually and
collectively “us” or “our) which arises out of or relates to your credit
application origination or servicing of this lease, the manufacture, delivery,
condition, or performance of this Vehicle, any representations, omissions, or
warranties, or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such
relationship with third parties who do not sign this Lease) shall, at your or
our election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court
action.”
(Smith Decl.,
Ex. B.)
 
This language is
similar to the language in Felisilda, which allowed the defendant car
manufacturer to compel arbitration as to the condition of the vehicle. However,
it is also worth noting that nothing in the language of the arbitration
agreement explicitly gives third parties the right to compel arbitration on a
signatory to the agreement, as the agreement states, “Either you or we may
choose to have any dispute between decided by arbitration” and “at your or our
election,” meaning Plaintiff and the dealership and its affiliates. (Smith
Decl., Ex. B.) Additionally, the plaintiff in Felisilda had sued both
the dealership and the manufacturer for Song-Beverly causes of action, which is
not the case here. Plaintiff has only sued Defendant American Honda Motor
Company, as the manufacturer, for the Song-Beverly causes of action. The
dealership that sold Plaintiff the vehicle is not a party to this action. 
 
As the Court of
Appeal has observed, “[w]e agree with Ngo that the sales contracts
reflect no intention to benefit a vehicle manufacturer…nothing in the sale
contracts or their arbitration provision offers any direct “benefit” to the
[manufacturer].” (Ochoa v. Ford Motor Company – Ford Motor Warranty Cases
(2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, 1338, review granted July 19, 2023 (S279969), pursuant
to Rule of Court 8.115(e)(3), the Supreme Court ordered that while pending
review the decision could be cited as persuasive authority and to establish a
conflict in authority that would allow trial courts to choose between
conflicting appellate decisions.) The manufacturer’s “claim that it ‘would
benefit from utilizing arbitration as an efficient means of dispute resolution’
(italics added) if treated as a third party beneficiary begs the
question: does the arbitration provision directly benefit [the manufacturer]?
The answer is patently ‘no.’ Its direct benefits are expressly limited to those
persons who might rely on it to avoid proceeding in court – the purchaser, the
dealer, the dealer’s employees, agents, successors or assigns. [The
manufacturer] is none of these.” (Id.)
 
Ochoa is
distinguishable from Felisilda because both the dealership and
manufacturer were sued in Felisilda, while only the manufacturer was
sued in Ochoa. In this case, the manufacturer alone is being sued. The
dealership is not being sued. Therefore, Ochoa would be more applicable
to this case than Felisilda. As discussed in further detail below, as in
Ochoa, the complaint is not based on the Lease Agreement, which indicated
that the vehicle was covered by the manufacturer’s standard warranty but no
other express warranties on the vehicle were given beyond one that the vehicle
would conform to the description in the Lease. The complaint is based on the
warranties given by Defendant as the manufacturer, not on any warranties in the
Lease Agreement. 
 
The Lease
Agreement is not otherwise concerned with warranties given by Defendant, which
is the basis upon which Plaintiff has sued. The Lease Agreement is chiefly
concerned with the financing of the vehicle and how Plaintiff intends to pay
for his lease. In fact, Section 16 of the Lease Agreement, “Warranties”, expressly
indicates that the dealerships “gives you a warranty that the Vehicle conforms
to the description in the Lease. THERE ARE NO OTHER EXPRESS WARRANTIES ON THE
VEHICLE.” (Smith Decl., Ex. B.)
 
By disclaiming
any other warranties and indicating that the vehicle is subject to the
manufacturer’s standard warranty, that suggests that the Lease Agreement is
separate and distinct from express warranties covered by the Song-Beverly Act. Because
the manufacturer warranty obligations arise independently from the Lease
Agreement, they are not so intertwined that this action should be governed by
the arbitration provision in the Lease Agreement. (See JSM Tuscany, LLC,
193 Cal.App.4th 1222.)
 
The petition to
compel arbitration is denied on the basis that the warranty obligations under
the Song-Beverly Act are not inextricably intertwined with the arbitration
agreement in the Lease Agreement.
 
Moving party to
give notice.