 Case Number:  23TRCV01518    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. M




 
DOMINIC
  SMITH, et al. 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV01518




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
21007
  VICTOR OWNER, LLC., et al.


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          June 7, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Plaintiffs
Dominic Smith and Dominic Smith Jr.
Responding Party:                  Defendant 21007 Victor Owner,
LLC
Demurrer to Amended Answer
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The demurrer to the eighth and
thirteenth affirmative defenses in the First Amended Answer is OVERRULED.
BACKGROUND
On May 12, 2023, plaintiffs Dominic
Smith and Dominic Smith Jr. filed a complaint against 21007 Victor Owner LLC for
(1) violation of Civil Code §1942.4, (2) tortious breach of the warranty of
habitability, (3) private nuisance, (4) violation of Business and Professional Code
§17200, et seq., (5) negligence, (6) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment, (7)
intentional infliction of emotional distress, (8) negligence per se, (9)
violation of Consumer Legal Remedies Act, Civil Code §1750, et seq., (10)
intentional influence to vacate, and (11) retaliatory eviction, Civil Code
§1942.5. 
On September 14, 2023, the court
sustained with leave to amend defendant’s demurrer to the 3rd and 11th
causes of action, sustained without leave to amend as to the 9th
cause of action, and overruled as to the 8th and 10th
causes of action.  The court deemed the
motion to strike moot as to the 3rd, 9th, and 11 causes
of action and granted it as to the 8th and 10th causes of
action.
On September 26, 2023, plaintiffs
filed a FAC for (1) violation of Civil Code §1942.4, (2) tortious breach of
warranty of habitability, (3) private nuisance, (4) Bus. and Prof. Code §17200,
(5) negligence, (6) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment, (7) IIED, (8)
negligence per se, (9) see ruling on demurrer, (10) intentional influence to
vacate, and (11) retaliatory eviction, Civil Code §1942.5.
On January 18, 2024, the court
overruled defendant’s demurrer to the 3rd cause of action and
sustained the demurrer without leave to amend as to the 11th cause
of action in the FAC.  
On January 29, 2024, defendant
filed an answer.
On March 25, 2024, defendant filed
an amended answer.
Plaintiff now demurs to the Eight
and Thirteenth Affirmative Defenses.  Those
Affirmative Defenses allege:
“8. Defendant is informed and
believes and upon such information and belief alleges that Plaintiffs have
waived their right to relief sought in the Complaint by virtue of their acts,
conduct, representations and omissions.
9. Plaintiffs agreed that certain
acts or inactions, including but not limited to, maintenance and services,
notice, evictions, criminal activity, alcohol abuse, rent, and termination of
the lease must be complied with in accordance with the written rental lease agreement.
Plaintiffs failed to comply with the agreed terms of the lease by maintaining
their apartment in a cleanly fashion, by failing to provide notice of alleged
conditions, and by failing to cooperate in the repair of alleged conditions.
Plaintiffs’ failures to comply with the agreement constitutes waiver.”
 
“14. Defendant is informed and
believes and upon such information and belief alleges Plaintiffs, by their
actions, have waived any claims they have against Defendant. Plaintiffs by oral
and/or written agreement with Defendant (directly or through its agent) waived
certain claims against Defendant.”
 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.
Plaintiff may demur to an answer on
the ground of insufficient pleading of defenses.  CCP §430.20. 
Under CCP §431.30(g), every affirmative defense “shall be separately
stated, and the several defenses shall refer to the causes of action which they
are intended to answer, in a manner by which they may be intelligibly
distinguished.”  “The same pleading of
‘ultimate facts’ rather than ‘evidentiary’ matter or ‘legal conclusions’ is
required as in pleading the complaint.” 
Weil and Brown, Civ. Proc. Before Trial, 6:459.  “The answer must aver facts ‘as carefully and
with as much detail as the facts which constitute the cause of action and which
are alleged in the complaint.’”  Id.
(quoting FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,
384).  “In general, whatever defendant
bears the burden of proving at trial is ‘new matter,’ and thus must be
specially pleaded in the answer.”  Civ.
Proc. Before Trial, 6:431.  When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context.  Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.   
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Dominic Smith demurs to
the eighth affirmative defense for waiver and thirteenth affirmative defense
for waiver of claims on the ground that they fail to allege sufficient facts to
constitute an affirmative defense and to the thirteenth cause of action on the
ground that it is uncertain.
As context, the FAC alleges that
the conditions of the subject property constitute a private nuisance because
the defective conditions were injurious to the health and safety of the
plaintiffs, indecent and offensive to the plaintiffs, and interfered
substantially with the plaintiffs’ comfortable enjoyment of the subject
property.  FAC, ¶104.  Plaintiffs could not enjoy their home because
it was severely infested with cockroaches and other disgusting
infestations.  Id., ¶105.  Defendant’s failure to provide repairs, their
refusal to comply with complaints and/or government citations, and their lack
of urgency in providing repairs created conditions, such as cockroach
infestation, termite infestation, gnat infestation, mold contamination,
dysfunctional plumbing systems resulting in major floods, water shut-offs
without notice, lack of hot water supply, inoperable heater, lack of fire
protection systems, insufficient ventilation, and deficient security, which
were injurious to plaintiffs’ health and safety.  Id., ¶106. 
Such nuisances are ongoing. 
Despite being required by law to abate these nuisances, defendants
failed or continue to fail to correct the conditions rendering the property a
nuisance.  Id., ¶107.  These conditions constituted substantial and
unreasonable interference with plaintiffs’ private use and enjoyment of their
tenancy.  Id., ¶110.
Eighth Affirmative Defense
Under this affirmative defense, the
FAA alleges that plaintiffs have waived their right to relief sought in the
complaint by virtue of their acts, conduct, representations, and
omissions.  FAA, ¶8.  Plaintiffs agreed that certain acts or
inactions, including but not limited to, maintenance and services, notice,
evictions, criminal activity, alcohol abuse, rent, and termination of the lease
must be complied with in accordance with the written rental lease
agreement.  Plaintiffs failed to comply
with the agreed terms of the lease by maintaining their apartment in a cleanly
fashion, by failing to provide notice of alleged conditions, and by failing to
cooperate in the repair of the alleged conditions.  Plaintiffs’ failures to comply with the
agreement constitutes waiver.  Id., ¶9.
The Court finds that the
allegations are sufficient.  Defendant
has pled the ultimate facts.
The demurrer is OVERRULED.
Thirteenth Affirmative Defense
Under this affirmative defense, the
FAA alleges that plaintiffs, by their actions, have waived any claims they have
against defendant.  Plaintiffs by oral
and/or written agreement defendant (directly or through its agent) waived
certain claims against defendant.  FAA,
¶14.
The Court finds that the allegations
are sufficient.  Defendant has pled the
ultimate facts. 
The demurrer is OVERRULED.
ORDER
The demurrer to the eighth and
thirteenth affirmative defenses in the First Amended Answer is OVERRULED.
Defendant is ordered to give notice
of ruling.