 Case Number:  24TRCP00083    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance Dept. B




 
BILL ME
  LATER, INC., as servicing agent for WebBank,


 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCP00083




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CONNEXE
  INC.,


 
 
 
Respondent.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          June 7,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Petitioner Bill Me Later,
Inc. 
Responding Party:                  None
Motion for Order
Confirming Arbitration and for the Entry of Judgment
            The Court considered the petition
and motion.  No opposition or response
was filed. 
RULING
The petition is GRANTED.  The award is confirmed, and judgment is
entered in conformity therewith. 
BACKGROUND
            On February 14, 2024, Bill Me Later,
Inc., as servicing agent for WebBank, filed a petition to confirm arbitration award
against Connexe Inc.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Under CCP §1285, any party to an
arbitration in which an award has been made may petition the court to confirm,
correct or vacate the award.  The
petition shall name as respondents all parties to the arbitration and may name
as respondents any other persons bound by the arbitration award.  
Under CCP §1285.4, a petition under
this chapter shall:  (a) Set forth the
substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement to arbitrate unless the
petitioner denies the existence of such an agreement.  (b) 
Set forth names of the arbitrators. 
(c)  Set forth or have attached a
copy of the award and the written opinion of the arbitrators, if any.  
Under CCP §1286, if a petition or
response under this chapter is duly served and filed, the court shall confirm
the award as made, whether rendered in this state or another state, unless in
accordance with this chapter it corrects the award and confirms it as
corrected, vacates the award or dismisses the proceedings.  
DISCUSSION
            Petitioner Bill Me Later, Inc. requests
that the Court confirm the arbitrator’s award against Connexe Inc. 
            Petitioner has met the procedural
requirements under CCP §1285.4. 
Petitioner attached the arbitration agreement (Paypal Business Loan
Agreement) and Award of Arbitrator.  The
arbitration was conducted on December 11, 2023. 
The arbitrator was Paul Roshka Jr. of the American Arbitration
Association.  The arbitrator awarded petitioner
the sum of $98,060.04.
            The Court rules as follows:  The Court finds that petitioner has met its burden
under CCP §1285.4 and respondent has provided no ground for vacating the award
under CCP §1286.2 or correcting the award under CCP §1286.6.
Accordingly, the petition is
GRANTED.  “If an award is confirmed,
judgment shall be entered in conformity therewith. . . .”
 
ORDER
            The petition is GRANTED.
            Judgment shall be entered in
conformity therewith.
            Petitioner is ordered to give notice
of the ruling.