  Case Number:  20STCV39273    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  14 #1 USAA v. SOUTHERN
CALIFORNIA EDISON COMPANY
 
Case No.: 20STCV39273 (Lead Case)
Hearing Date: 11/8/23
Department 14
Case Filed: 10/13/20
 
MOTIONS FOR JUDGMENT
ON THE PLEADINGS
 
Moving Party:                         D/Southern
California Edison 
Responding Party:                   Individual Plaintiffs in Saddle Ridge Fire litigation
Responding Party:                   Subrogation Plaintiffs in Saddle Ridge Fire litigation
Responding Party:                   Public Entity Plaintiffs in Saddle Ridge Fire litigation
                   
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Deny motions for judgment on the
pleadings
 
DISCUSSION
 
I. Background
 
            These related cases arise out of the
Saddle Ridge Fire. Individual Plaintiffs allege that a result of the Saddle
Ridge Fire, they have suffered damages including, but are not limited to, the
following: damage to, or destruction of, real and personal property; damage to,
or loss of, cherished possessions; out-of-pocket expenses directly and
proximately incurred as a result of the fire; alternative living expenses;
evacuation expenses; business loss; destruction of business property; and
various types of emotional distress, annoyance, inconvenience, disturbance,
mental anguish and loss of quiet enjoyment of property. [Individual Plaintiffs’
Master Complaint, ¶2.]
 
            Plaintiffs allege the Saddle Ridge
Fire was caused by a massive electrical over-current event along SCE’s
Gould-Sylmar 220 kilovolt (“kV”) High Voltage Transmission Circuit in Los
Angeles County. [Individual Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶14.] Per the
Complaint, SCE’s Transmission Tower S5-2, also identified as M5-T2 or Tower 2,
is where electrical faulting originated (hereinafter referred to as the “SCE
Fault Tower”) and Transmission Tower S2-5, also identified as M2-T5 or Tower 5,
is where the Saddle Ridge Fire ignited (hereinafter referred to as the “SCE
Fire Origin Tower”) (jointly referred to as “SCE Transmission Towers”). [Id.]
 
            On October 10, 2019, and including
the days immediately prior and following, most of Southern California was being
impacted by strong forecast Santa Ana winds and low humidity levels signifying
a high risk of wildfires. [Individual Plaintiffs’ Master  Complaint, ¶15.] Los Angeles County was under
a red flag warning for the days leading up to and including October 10, 2019. [Id.]
Electrical utilities such as SCE should have been under a heightened sense of
alert and should have exercised due care to avoid causing a wildfire. [Id.]
 
            The Saddle Ridge Fire caused massive
evacuations in the San Fernando Valley of up to 23,000 homes and resulted in
almost 8,800 acres burned, one death, and eight other injuries. [Individual
Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶16.] Individual Plaintiffs allege that on the
night of October 10, 2019, SCE had in place the Fault Tower and the Fire Origin
Tower, as well as all related transmission equipment necessary for the safe and
reliable transmission and distribution of electricity on the Gould-Sylmar
circuit, its real property, easements, and rights of way as part of an
Electrical Transmission System (hereinafter, the “ETS”). [Individual
Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶17.] At or around 8:57 p.m. a failure of the
ETS, including but not limited to, a clevis, dampers and/or jumpers on the SCE
Transmission Towers caused a massive electrical over-current event at the SCE
Fault Tower owned, operated, maintained, and controlled by SCE and Does 1
through 50, and each of them. [Id.] The SCE Fault Tower was a supporting
metal structure in the Defendants’ GouldSylmar 220kV Circuit that carried
electricity between the Gould Substation and Sylmar Substation located within
the San Fernando Valley. [Master Complaint, ¶18.] It was owned and operated by
SCE and monitored by SCE employees. [Id.]
 
Individual Plaintiffs allege that on the date of the Saddle Ridge Fire,
the B-phase suspension insulator top clevis failed (“Broken Clevis”) on the SCE
Fault Tower, which caused the suspension insulators and attached conductor to
break away from the middle cross arm, and fall upon the bottom cross arm
(“Subject Conductor”). [Individual Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶19.] Individual
Plaintiffs allege the Broken Clevis showed signs of erosion, wear, stress, and
deterioration and should have been replaced by Defendants. [Individual
Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶20.] The Subject Conductor was allegedly carrying
approximately 220kV of electricity. [Master Complaint, ¶21.] The contact
between the Subject Conductor and bottom metal cross arm allegedly caused a
massive electrical fault (“Subject Fault”). [Id.]  The Subject Fault was detected by SCE’s
protective relay devices. Individual Plaintiffs allege that SCE reported the
event and their subsequent system protection reactions to the CPUC on November
15, 2019. [Individual Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶22.]
 
            Individual Plaintiffs allege that according
to SCE’s report to the CPUC, the Gould-Sylmar line tripped open at 20:57:38.248
by tripping breakers at both Gould and Sylmar substations, thereby
de-energizing the entire Gould-Sylmar Circuit including the Subject Conductor. [Individual
Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶23.] At a time, unspecified by SCE, the
Gould-Sylmar Circuit, including the Subject Conductor, was automatically
reclosed, allowing electricity to flow back into the Gould-Sylmar Circuit
including through the Subject Conductor. [Individual Plaintiffs’ Master
Complaint, ¶24.] The recloser allegedly caused fault current to once again flow
into the Subject Conductor, and through the SCE Fault Tower due to the Subject
Conductor laying across the lower metal cross-arm. [Id.] Individual
Plaintiffs allege that according to SCE’s report to the CPUC, only the Gould
circuit side tripped open again at 20:57:39.402 when two breakers tripped at
the Gould substation, thereby presumably de-energizing the entire Gould-Sylmar
Circuit including the Subject Conductor. [Individual Plaintiffs’ Master
Complaint, ¶25.] 
 
Individual Plaintiffs allege that according to SCE’s report to the CPUC,
only the B-Phase was involved in the two faulting events described in
paragraphs 23-26. [Individual Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶26.] Individual
Plaintiffs’ allege that according to SCE’s report to the CPU, the fault
magnitude for the first fault initialization time was 18,700 amps. [Individual
Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶27.] According to SCE’s report to the CPUC, the
fault magnitude for the second fault initialization time was 7,300 amps. [Id.]
According to SCE’s report to the CPUC the adjacent Eagle Rock-Sylmar 220kV
Circuit did not relay or lock out. [Individual Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint,
¶28.]
 
            When the Subject Conductor fell onto
the bottom cross arm on the SCE Fault Tower, it allegedly energized the metal
SCE Fault Tower with approximately 130,000 volts of electricity that produced a
flash that was captured by dash camera footage. [Individual Plaintiffs’ Master
Complaint, ¶29.] The result of the Subject Fault at the SCE Fault Tower,
Individual Plaintiffs allege, elevated the SCE Fault Tower and its attached
overhead shield conductor to nearly full line-to-neutral voltage of
approximately 130,000 Volts. [Individual Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶31.] However,
Individual Plaintiffs allege the SCE Fault Tower was not grounded with any
purposeful grounding device (such as ground rods or ground mats) and was only
earthed through its steel-reinforced, concrete footings. [Individual
Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶33.]
 
            Individual Plaintiffs allege the
electricity from the Subject Fault traveled 12 transmission towers from the SCE
Fault Tower, where the electricity created a powerful electrical event(s) that
ignited surrounding vegetation and started the Saddle Ridge Fire. [Individual
Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶34.]
 
            Individual Plaintiffs also allege
the Saddle Ridge Fire ignited from at least one or both events: (1) electricity
from the Subject Fault propagated to the SCE Fire Origin Tower and went to
ground through its concrete footings, comprised of mental including anchor
bolts, rebar, rebar cages, and other mental materials, where the electricity
ignited ground vegetation, and/or (2) vegetation was touching or close enough
to the SCE Fire Origin Tower that the electricity ignited the vegetation. [Individual
Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶35.]
 
            Based on these events, the Individual
Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint alleges claims for inverse condemnation,
negligence, trespass, nuisance, violation of Public Utilities Code §2106, and
violation of Health and Safety Code §13007.
 
            In addition to the Individual
Plaintiffs, two other groups of Plaintiffs have filed complaints against SCE
arising out of the Saddle Ridge fire – the Subrogation Plaintiffs (comprised of
United Services Automobile Association, USAA Casualty Insurance Company, USAA
General Indemnity Company, Garrison Property and Casualty Insurance Company,
and others) and the Public Entity Plaintiffs (a group of government entities,
municipal corporations, and/or special districts in the State of California).
The Subrogation Plaintiffs’ master complaint alleges claims for inverse
condemnation and negligence. The Public Entities’ master complaint alleges
claims for inverse condemnation, negligence, trespass, private nuisance, public
nuisance, premises liability, violation of Public Utilities Code §2106, and
violation of Health and Safety Code §13007.
 
            Defendant SCE moves for judgment on
the pleadings as to the inverse condemnation claim in all three complaints.
 
II. Requests for
Judicial Notice
 
            Defendant SCE’s request for judicial
notice is granted as to exhibits A, C, D, and E pursuant to Evidence Code
§452(c), as these are all official acts of a California government agency and
are subject to judicial notice under this section. The request is granted as to
Exhibit B pursuant to Evidence Code §452(d), as the CPUC amicus brief in Foley
is part of the Court’s record in that litigation. The Court does not
judicially notice the truth of the matters set forth within Exhibit B, and
judicial notice is limited to the fact that the exhibit appears in the Court’s
file in that case.
 
            The Individual Plaintiffs’ request for
judicial notice is granted as to Exhibits A-H pursuant to Evidence Code
§452(d). These exhibits are records of either state or federal courts and are
subject to judicial notice under this section. However, none of these cases
stand as binding or persuasive authority with respect to the issues to be
determined on the instant motions for judgment on the pleadings.
 
III. Claim for inverse condemnation 
 
A. Legal standards governing claims for inverse condemnation
The term “inverse condemnation” is applied to an action by an owner
to recover damages for injury to his or her property from some public works
undertaking or other activity by an agency with power to condemn. The
designation was coined because the object—compensation for property damaged in
connection with a public use—is the same as in a condemnation action. See 8
Witkin, Summary 11th Const Law § 1272 (2022) (citing Heimann v. Los Angeles (1947) 30 C.2d
746, 753, 185 P.2d 597 [procedure
is different, but result is same];  Klopping v. Whittier (1972) 8 C.3d 39, 43, 104 C.R. 1,
500 P.2d 1345, infra, § 1373 [precondemnation publicity]; Baker v. Burbank-Glendale-Pasadena
Airport Authority (1985) 39
C.3d 862, 866, 218 C.R. 293, 705 P.2d 866, infra, § 1273 [effect of entity's lack of power to
condemn]; 7 Miller & Starr 4th, § 23:1 et
seq.; C.E.B., 2 Condemnation
Practice 3d, Chap. 13 et seq.; 32 Proof of Facts 3d 405 [inverse condemnation by
physical invasion].) 
 
            The elements of a claim for inverse
condemnation are:
 

Plaintiffs
     owned the real property;
the property
     was taken or damaged;
the cause was
     a public project;  and
causation.

 
Cal. State
Automobile Assn. v. City of Palo Alto (2006) 138 Cal. App. 4th 474, 480. 
See also  Smith
v. City & County of San Francisco (1990) 225 Cal. App. 3d 38, 45
(to state a cause of action for inverse condemnation, complainants must allege
facts showing deprivation of substantially all reasonably beneficial use of the
property); Wildensten v. East Bay Regional Park Dist. (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 976, 979-981  (“To state a
cause of action for inverse condemnation, the plaintiff must allege the
defendant substantially participated in the planning, approval, construction,
or operation of a public project or improvement which proximately caused injury
to plaintiff's property.”); Arreola v. County of Monterey  (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 722, 762
(“[S]ubstantial participation does not necessarily mean actively participating
in the project, … but may include the situation where the public entity has
deliberately chosen to do nothing.”);  ibid. 
(“a public entity is a proper defendant in a claim for inverse
condemnation if it has the power to control or direct the aspect of the public
improvement that is alleged to have caused the injury.”);  Holtz v. Sup. Ct. (1970) 3 Cal. 3d
296, 302  (public entities may be liable
on an inverse condemnation theory for the alleged physical damage to
plaintiffs' property proximately caused by the loss of subjacent support);  Odello Bros. v. County of Monterey
(1998) 63 Cal. App. 4th 778, 785-788 
(inverse condemnation action may lie to establish the owner's damages
from flooding caused by public entities, depending on reasonableness, public
need, and the gravity of the harm).   
 
B. Discussion
Defendant Southern California Edison moves for judgment on the pleadings
as to the claims for inverse condemnation alleged by all three groups of
Plaintiffs in the Saddle Fire litigation. 
 
                        1. SCE as a Private
Corporation vs. a Public Entity
 
SCE primarily argues that it is not liable as a matter of law for inverse
condemnation, because it is a private entity (and not a public entity). In
support of that proposition, SCE relies on City of Oroville v. Superior
Court of Butte County (2019) 7 Cal.5th 1091. In that case, WGS
was a commercial property owner (comprised of a group of dentists), which sued
the City of Oroville for inverse condemnation and nuisance arising out of a
sewer backup. Raw sewage began spewing from the toilets, sinks, and drains of
the building. The plaintiffs brought suit for inverse condemnation against the
City of Oroville, who the plaintiffs alleged was legally responsible for the
property damage because it was caused by the sewer system’s failure to function
as intended. City of Oroville, 7 Cal.5th at 1097-1098.
 
            The City of Oroville had moved for
summary judgment on the claims, arguing that plaintiff WGS had failed to
install a backwater valve. The trial court denied the motion, stating that
either prevention of the blockage or installation of the backflow prevention
device could have prevented the damage. WGS also sought a judicial
determination on the City’s liability for inverse condemnation, and the trial
court found in favor of WGS (notwithstanding WGS’s own expert testifying that
the sewage backup incident could have been averted if a fully functional
backwater valve had been installed on WGS’s building). The trial court
concluded an inverse condemnation occurred, even though the City shared causal
responsibility for the damage with WGS. City of Oroville, 7 Cal.5th
at 1100. 
 
            The Court of Appeal affirmed,
concluding, among other things, that WGS’s failure to install the backwater
valve did not defeat the inverse condemnation claims. City of Oroville, 7
Cal.5th at 1101. The California Supreme Court granted review “to address whether the City is liable in
inverse condemnation where sewage backs up onto private property because of a
blockage in the City's sewer main and the absence of a backwater valve that the
affected property owner was legally required to install and maintain.” City
of Oroville at 1101.
 
            The California Supreme Court
reversed.  In doing so, the City of
Oroville court commented: 
 
Public entities are not strictly or otherwise
automatically liable for any conceivable damage bearing some kind of
connection, however remote, to a public improvement. To succeed on an inverse
condemnation action, a plaintiff must ordinarily show — assuming the public
entity made reasonable assumptions about the public improvement in question —
that the damage to private property was substantially caused by inherent risks
associated with the design, construction, or maintenance of the public
improvement.  City of Oroville, 7 Cal.5th at 1098.
 
            The City of Oroville court
further commented on the requirements to establish liability on the inverse
condemnation claim:
 
Together, our inverse condemnation decisions
offer a relatively clear picture of the causal relationship that must be
shown for a claim to succeed. Liability depends on whether some element of
physical, but-for causation is present to link the public improvement and the
damage. The damage must be the “‘necessary or probable result’ of
the improvement, or if ‘the immediate, direct, and necessary effect’ thereof was to
produce the damage.” (Van Alstyne, supra, 20 Hastings L.J at p. 436, fn. omitted,
italics added.) Rather than training attention on the mere presence of
causation, our cases have focused instead on whether there is proof that the
damages “followed in the normal course of subsequent events” and were
“predominantly” produced by the improvement. City of Oroville, supra, 7
Cal.5th at 1107–1108.
 
            Contrary to Defendant SCE’s argument,
City of Oroville does not hold that a private entity may not be held
liable on a claim for inverse condemnation. The law is to the contrary.
 
            In Barham v. Southern Cal. Edison
Co. (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 744, the Court of Appeal reversed the
trial court’s judgments in favor of Edison on the inverse condemnation claim,
rejecting the finding that there had been no taking for public use. The Court
of Appeal framed the issue as whether defendant was a public agency that
damaged the property owners’ property for a public use, and reasoned that
public utilities are held to the standards imposed on public entities, and that
there is no rational basis upon which to find a distinction between the
operation of a privately owned electric utility and a publicly owned one. 
 
            The Barham court noted that
the critical question of public versus private use is a question of law. Barham,
74 Cal.App.4th at 752. The Barham court further noted
that “generally, condemning private property for the transmission of electrical
power is a public use and inverse condemnation will apply.” Id. It
reasoned that “[t]he fundamental policy underlying the concept of inverse
condemnation is to spread among the benefiting community any burden
disproportionately borne by a member of that community, to establish a public
undertaking for the benefit of all.” Id. (citing Belaire v. Riverside
County Flood Control Dist. (988) 47 Cal.3d 550, 558). 
 
The Barham court outright rejected SCE’s position that inverse
condemnation principles should not have applied in that case because SCE was a
privately owned public utility, not a public entity. The Barham court
noted that publicly owned electric utilities have been held liable in inverse
condemnation in situations virtually identical to the facts in Barham. Barham,
74 Cal.App.4th at 753. The Barham court warned that if it
“[w]ere…to adopt SCE’s position, [it] would be required to differentiate
between damage resulting from the operation of a utility based solely upon
whether the utility is operated by a governmental entity or by a privately
owned public utility.” Id. The court opined that it was “not convinced
that any significant differences exist regarding the operation of publicly
versus privately owned electric utilities as applied to the facts in this case
and find there is no rational basis upon which to found such a distinction.” Id.
On that basis, the Barham court concluded that under the facts of that
case, “SCE may be liable in inverse condemnation as a public entity”, and that
Article I, §19 of the California Constitution (and the interpretive cases)
“have as their principal focus the concept of public use, as opposed to the
nature of the entity appropriating the property.” Id. (Emphasis
added.) 
 
As such, the issue was, in the eyes of the Barham court, whether
the plaintiffs’ property was taken for a public use (i.e., the transmission of
electric power to the public). Id. The evidence in that case reflected
the circuit, of which the subject utility pole and transmission wires were a
part, provided electric service to more than 1,000 households. The court
ultimately concluded that the transmission of electric power through the
facilities that caused damage to the plaintiffs’ property was for the benefit
of the public and thus, the plaintiffs’ property was “taken or damaged” for
public use. Barham at 754.
 
Other cases have followed Barham.  For example, Pacific
Bell Telephone Co. v. Southern California Edison Co. (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1400 rejected a similar
argument SCE made in Barham. In that case, SCE argued that for a private
entity to be liable for inverse condemnation liability, it had to be a joint
participant with a government entity. Citing Barham, and rejecting SCE’s
reliance on Breidert v. Southern Pac. Co. (1964) 61 Cal.2d 659, the Pacific
Bell court determined that liability for inverse condemnation does not
require coparticipation with a public entity and that “[w]hile joint
participation may certainly give rise to inverse condemnation liability, … it
is [not] required.” Pacific Bell at 1405. 
 
The Pacific Bell court likewise rejected Edison’s argument
limiting a public utility’s inverse condemnation liability to only situations
involving the direct exercise of its eminent domain power. Pacific Bell at
1405-1406. Ultimately, the Pacific Bell court found that SCE’s
“monopolistic or
quasi-monopolistic authority, deriving directly from its exclusive franchise
provided by the state [citation] distinguishes Edison's action from the
cases it cites rejecting inverse condemnation cases against private parties who
do not have such monopolistic authority from the state.” Id. at 1406.
            
            Thus, to the extent SCE argues that
its status as a private entity shields it from any inverse condemnation
liability, that position is contrary to California law. Ultimately, the Court
would have to assess SCE’s liability through the standards established in Barham
and the cases that follow it. However, the pleading challenge on this
ground must be rejected for the reasons set forth above. The Court is not
persuaded at the pleading stage by the distinction SCE attempts to draw between
Barham and Pacific Bell on the one hand, and the instant case.
 
                        2. Damage to properties
as inescapable or unavoidable
 
            SCE next argues that Plaintiffs
cannot allege substantial causation because the damage to their properties was
not inescapable or unavoidable. Citing City of Orovoille, supra, SCE
argues the “core of the test” for substantial causation requires the private
property damage to be the “inescapable or unavoidable consequence” of the
public improvement as planned and constructed. 
 
            The Individual Plaintiffs, the
Subrogation Plaintiffs, and the Public Entity Plaintiffs have all alleged the private
property damage was the “inescapable or unavoidable consequence” of the public
improvement. The Individual Plaintiffs allege:
 
54. ….In the Saddle Ridge Fire, SCE’s ETS
substantially caused Individual Plaintiffs’ damages and was more than a causal
connection. 
 
55. SCE owned and substantially participated
in the design, planning, approval, construction, and operation of the SCE
Transmission Towers, and ETS as public improvements for the supplying of
electricity. SCE exercised control and dominion over the SCE Transmission
Towers, and ETS as public improvements, a public project, and for public
benefit. 
 
56. Under City of Oroville, the Court
require a reviewing court to consider whether the inherent dangers of the
public improvement as deliberately designed, constructed, or maintained
materialized and were the cause of the property damage. 
 
57. Electricity is a dangerous
instrumentality that poses an inherent risk that requires the exercise of
increased care and precaution commensurate with and proportionate to that
increased danger so as to make the transport of electricity through the SCE
Transmission Towers, and ETS safe under all circumstances and exigencies posed
by the surrounding weather and vegetation to ensure maximum safety under all
local conditions in the service area, including the risk of fire. 
 
58. SCE deliberately designed its SCE
Transmission Towers, and ETS to transport electricity from its substations,
specifically the Gould and Sylmar substations, directly to public homes and
businesses. The SCE Transmission Towers, and ETS includes SCE’s design of its
electrical circuitry with system protection devices, including but not limited
to fuses, breakers, and reclosers (“System Protection”) to prevent an
electrical overcurrent event and/or to trip and stop the flow of electricity
should an electrical overcurrent event occur. SCE could have set their System
Protection settings to be more sensitive, for example, requiring a single
breaker to operate in the event of an overcurrent situation. However, SCE
deliberately designed its System Protection with a breaker and a half mechanism
requiring, not one, but two breakers to operate from an overcurrent event,
before electricity was cut to the Gould-Sylmar Circuit. This was a cost saving
decision by SCE that ensured electricity was not shut off unless there was a
significant overcurrent event.
 
59. Additionally, SCE deliberately designed
its System Protection with reclosers set to reclose automatically instead of
manually. After the Subject Fault, the double-breaker scheme opened the
Gould-Sylmar Circuit —stopping electricity. Almost instantaneously the
reclosers automatically closed allowing electricity to flow back into the
Subject Line that was ow laying on top of the SCE Fault Tower’s metal
cross-arm. automatically closed allowing electricity to flow back into the
Subject Line that was now laying on top of the SCE Fault Tower’s metal
cross-arm. [Individual Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶¶54-59.]
 
            At ¶63, Individual Plaintiffs
allege:
 
The inherent danger of electricity and SCE’s
design of its SCE Transmission Towers, and ETS, including its System
Protection, materialized in an arcing event that caused the Saddle Ridge Fire,
which damaged Individual Plaintiffs’’ property. The SCE Transmission Towers and
ETS that failed were owned, designed, operated, maintained, and controlled by
SCE, and SCE rightfully precluded members of the public from altering or
maintaining the SCE Transmission Towers, and ETS. [Individual Plaintiffs’
Master Complaint, ¶63.]
 
            The Subrogation Plaintiffs allege in
applicable part:
 
60. … SCE deliberately designed its System
Protection with reclosers set to reclose automatically instead of manually.
After the Subject Fault, the double-breaker scheme opened the Gould-Sylmar
Circuit —stopping electricity. Almost instantaneously the reclosers
automatically closed allowing electricity to flow back into the Subject Line
that was now laying on top of the SCE Fault Tower’s metal cross-arm. This
System Protection setting on the reclosers is a cost saving choice that avoided
SCE having a human inspect the line prior to re-energizing the Gould-Sylmar
Circuit. 
 
61. Additionally, SCE deliberately designed
the ETS to include the y-clevises on the SCE Fault Tower such that, in the
event of equipment failure, the line could drop and make direct contact with
the metal-cross arm below. 
 
62. Additionally, SCE deliberately designed
the SCE Fire Origin Tower and ETS such that the A, B, and C phase jumper cables
on one side of the SCE Fire Origin Tower (“Arc Side”) were not prevented from
moving and swaying during wind events and could make contact with the SCE Fault
Tower. Upon information and belief Subrogating Plaintiffs are investigating
whether arcing from the equipment on the SCE Fire Origin Tower caused or
contributed to the start of the Saddle Ridge Fire insomuch as Ms. Perez Marin
witnessed sparks coming down from the top of the tower at inception. SCE
deliberately installed weights to the jumpers on the nonarc side of the SCE
Fire Origin Tower, thus preventing the electrified jumpers on the non-arc side
from moving and swaying into contact with the SCE Fire Origin Tower. The
following image depicts no weight on the Arc Side of the SCE Fire Origin Tower,
and one weight on the non-arc side of the SCE Fire Origin Tower.
 
63. Additionally, SCE deliberately designed
the SCE Fire Origin Tower such that the SCE Fire Origin Tower did not have any
purposeful grounding devices (such as ground rods or ground mats) and was only
earthed through its steel-reinforced, concrete footings.
 
64. The inherent danger of electricity and
SCE’s design of its SCE Transmission Towers, and ETS, including its System
Protection, materialized in an arcing event that caused the Saddle Ridge Fire,
which damaged Subrogation Plaintiffs’ Insureds’ property. The SCE Transmission
Towers and ETS that failed were owned, designed, operated, maintained, and
controlled by SCE, and SCE rightfully precluded members of the public from
altering or maintaining the SCE Transmission Towers, and ETS. [Subrogation
Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶¶60-64. See also Public Entities' Master
Complaint, ¶¶56-60.]
 
            Further, Subrogation Plaintiffs
allege:
 
68. SCE’s SCE Transmission Towers, and ETS,
as deliberately designed, constructed, and maintained, presented an inherent
risk and danger of fire to private property. In acting in furtherance of the
public objective of supplying electricity, SCE took and did take on or about
October 10, 2019, a known risk that private property would be damaged and
destroyed by fire. 
 
69. The injury to Subrogating Plaintiffs’
Insureds’ property was the inescapable and unavoidable consequence of
Defendant’s SCE Transmission Towers, and ETS as deliberately designed,
constructed, and maintained. This damage was the necessary and probable result
of SCE’s public improvement of supplying electricity. The damage to private
property was substantially caused by the inherent risks presented in SCE’s
deliberate design, construction and/or maintenance of the SCE Transmission
Towers, and ETS, and the damages were the probable result of the public
improvement and/or were the immediate, direct and necessary effect of the
improvement produced resultant damage. [Subrogation Plaintiffs’ Master
Complaint, ¶¶68-69. See also Public Entities' Master Complaint, ¶¶64-65.]
 
            The three Master Complaints
sufficiently allege substantial causation. The choices made by SCE with respect
to the design of the system and chosen materials by SCE were allegedly made as
cost-saving measures. Additionally, the design choices made by SCE allegedly
resulted in an increased risk of an electrical event, and the risks allegedly caused
damages to the three groups of Plaintiffs by igniting the fire. At the pleading
stage, this is all that is needed.
 
            As discussed above, Defendant SCE
relies in large part on City of Oroville in arguing that Plaintiffs
cannot allege substantial causation as a matter of law (and that the property
damage was not an “inescapable or unavoidable consequence” of the property
damage). 
 
            The California Supreme Court
reversed Court of Appeal’s finding of liability based on inverse condemnation.
The City of Oroville court reiterated the general rule that “[t]o
succeed on an inverse condemnation action, a plaintiff must ordinarily show –
assuming the public entity made
reasonable assumptions about the public improvement in question — that the
damage to private property was substantially caused by inherent risks
associated with the design, construction, or maintenance of the public
improvement.” City of Oroville, 7 Cal.5th at 1098. However,
the Supreme Court found in that case that this was “certainly not something the
dentists were able to show in this case, where installation of a backwater
valve on their premises not only would have prevented or drastically mitigated
the risk of damage, according to experts, but was legally required. Under
the circumstances, the City is not liable in inverse condemnation….” Id.
 
            Here, though, and as
argued by the three groups of Plaintiffs, the California Supreme Court
affirmatively found that the plaintiff could not allege inverse condemnation
under the circumstances because they failed to mitigate or prevent the damage
by installing a legally required backwater valve. There is nothing on the face
of the Master Complaints which indicates that the Plaintiffs could have
mitigated or prevented their damages through construction or installing some
sort of a device. While the Court is not foreclosing this issue from litigation
following discovery, it cannot summarily resolve the issue at the pleading
stage. 
 
            For these reasons, the
Court determines that substantial causation has adequately been alleged.
 
                        3. Alleged
Wildfire Damage Not Inherent Risk of the Deliberate Design,
                        Construction,
or Maintenance of SCE’s Equipment
 
            Defendant SCE next
argues that Plaintiffs fail to allege the deliberate action element of inverse
condemnation because they do not allege their property damage arose from the
“inherent dangers of the public improvement as deliberately designed,
constructed or maintained.” 
 
            Here again, the
allegations excerpted above do allege that damage to the Plaintiffs’ property
arose from the inherent dangers of SCE’s deliberate design of the transmission
towers (including the use of automatic reclosers, including y-clevises on SCE’s
tower, failing to install weights on sets of jumper cables, and failure to
include any purposeful grounding devices, all coupled with SCE’s cost-saving
measures). At the pleading stage, this is sufficient.
 
                        4.  Accidental wildfire damage as serving no
public use
            Finally, Defendant SCE
argues that Plaintiffs fail to allege a public use served by the Saddle Ridge
Fire, and that only damage for “public use” creates a compensable undertaking. Customer
Co. v. City of Sacramento (1995) 10 Cal.4th 368. In other words,
Defendant SCE argues, the damage itself must serve a public use, and that
public use is not satisfied whenever damage arises from a public service.
 
            As Customer Co. itself
recognizes, however, “[t]he destruction or damaging of property is sufficiently
connected with ‘public use’ as required by the Constitution, if the injury is a
result of dangers inherent in the construction of the public improvement[.]” Customer
Co., 10 Cal.4th at 381-382. Here again, the allegations above
sufficiently allege dangers inherent in SCE’s construction of the Towers and
related components. To the extent Defendant SCE argues that there is an intent
element associated with the inverse condemnation claim, the Court is
unpersuaded. In that sense, the facts of Customer Co. (involving city
police officers and county deputy sheriffs firing cannisters into a store,
causing extensive damage to the plaintiff’s store and its contents) and Miller
v. City of Palo Alto (1929) 208 Cal.74 (involving the negligent  use of a garbage incinerator by employees of
defendant city, resulting in damage to the plaintiffs’ property) are
distinguishable from those at bar.
 
 
# 2 USAA v. SOUTHERN
CALIFORNIA EDISON COMPANY
 
Case No.: 20STCV39273 (Lead Case)
Hearing Date: 11/8/23
Department 14
Case Filed: 10/13/20
 
MOTION TO COMPEL
NON-DESTRUCTIVE AND MINIMALLY DESTRUCTIVE TESTING AND ANALYSIS
 
Moving Party:                         P/United
Services Automobile Association
Responding Party:                   D/Southern California Edison
                   
Relief Requested:
 
            Order compelling Defendant SCE to
cooperate and make available parts of the SCE towers for the purpose of
inspection, non-destructive testing, and minimally destructive testing 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
1)
Proposed Current Injection Test – Deny, subject to further argument as to
whether the burden, expense, and intrusiveness of ordering the Plaintiffs’
proposed Current Injection Test clearly outweighs the benefits of this
discovery;
 
2)
Destructive testing of concrete footings at the base of SCE’s electrical towers
– Grant, subject to the parties’ agreement on a protocol for the drilling and
repair work, including an appropriate schedule and presence of SCE personnel
during the extraction and repair; and
 
3)
Penetrative imaging of the concrete footings – Grant.
 
DISCUSSION
 
I. Background
 
            These related cases arise out of the
Saddle Ridge Fire. Individual Plaintiffs allege that a result of the Saddle
Ridge Fire, they have suffered damages including, but are not limited to, the
following: damage to, or destruction of, real and personal property; damage to,
or loss of, cherished possessions; out-of-pocket expenses directly and
proximately incurred as a result of the fire; alternative living expenses;
evacuation expenses; business loss; destruction of business property; and
various types of emotional distress, annoyance, inconvenience, disturbance,
mental anguish and loss of quiet enjoyment of property. [Individual Plaintiffs’
Master Complaint, ¶2.]
 
            Plaintiffs allege the Saddle Ridge
Fire was caused by a massive electrical over-current event along SCE’s
Gould-Sylmar 220 kilovolt (“kV”) High Voltage Transmission Circuit in Los
Angeles County. [Individual Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶14.] Per the
Complaint, SCE’s Transmission Tower S5-2, also identified as M5-T2 or Tower 2,
is where electrical faulting originated (hereinafter referred to as the “SCE
Fault Tower”) and Transmission Tower S2-5, also identified as M2-T5 or Tower 5,
is where the Saddle Ridge Fire ignited (hereinafter referred to as the “SCE
Fire Origin Tower”) (jointly referred to as “SCE Transmission Towers”). [Id.]
 
            On October 10, 2019, and including
the days immediately prior and following, most of Southern California was being
impacted by strong forecast Santa Ana winds and low humidity levels signifying
a high risk of wildfires. [Individual Plaintiffs’ Master  Complaint, ¶15.] Los Angeles County was under
a red flag warning for the days leading up to and including October 10, 2019. [Id.]
Electrical utilities such as SCE should have been under a heightened sense of
alert and should have exercised due care to avoid causing a wildfire. [Id.]
 
            The Saddle Ridge Fire caused massive
evacuations in the San Fernando Valley of up to 23,000 homes and resulted in
almost 8,800 acres burned, one death, and eight other injuries. [Individual
Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶16.] Individual Plaintiffs allege that on the
night of October 10, 2019, SCE had in place the Fault Tower and the Fire Origin
Tower, as well as all related transmission equipment necessary for the safe and
reliable transmission and distribution of electricity on the Gould-Sylmar
circuit, its real property, easements, and rights of way as part of an
Electrical Transmission System (hereinafter, the “ETS”). [Individual
Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶17.] At or around 8:57 p.m. a failure of the
ETS, including but not limited to, a clevis, dampers and/or jumpers on the SCE
Transmission Towers caused a massive electrical over-current event at the SCE
Fault Tower owned, operated, maintained, and controlled by SCE and Does 1
through 50, and each of them. [Id.] The SCE Fault Tower was a supporting
metal structure in the Defendants’ GouldSylmar 220kV Circuit that carried
electricity between the Gould Substation and Sylmar Substation located within
the San Fernando Valley. [Master Complaint, ¶18.] It was owned and operated by
SCE and monitored by SCE employees. [Id.]
 
Individual Plaintiffs allege that on the date of the Saddle Ridge Fire,
the B-phase suspension insulator top clevis failed (“Broken Clevis”) on the SCE
Fault Tower, which caused the suspension insulators and attached conductor to
break away from the middle cross arm, and fall upon the bottom cross arm
(“Subject Conductor”). [Individual Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶19.] Individual
Plaintiffs allege the Broken Clevis showed signs of erosion, wear, stress, and
deterioration and should have been replaced by Defendants. [Individual
Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶20.] The Subject Conductor was allegedly carrying
approximately 220kV of electricity. [Master Complaint, ¶21.] The contact
between the Subject Conductor and bottom metal cross arm allegedly caused a
massive electrical fault (“Subject Fault”). [Id.]  The Subject Fault was detected by SCE’s
protective relay devices. Individual Plaintiffs allege that SCE reported the
event and their subsequent system protection reactions to the CPUC on November
15, 2019. [Individual Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶22.]
 
            Individual Plaintiffs allege that according
to SCE’s report to the CPUC, the Gould-Sylmar line tripped open at 20:57:38.248
by tripping breakers at both Gould and Sylmar substations, thereby
de-energizing the entire Gould-Sylmar Circuit including the Subject Conductor.
[Individual Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶23.] At a time, unspecified by SCE,
the Gould-Sylmar Circuit, including the Subject Conductor, was automatically
reclosed, allowing electricity to flow back into the Gould-Sylmar Circuit
including through the Subject Conductor. [Individual Plaintiffs’ Master
Complaint, ¶24.] The recloser allegedly caused fault current to once again flow
into the Subject Conductor, and through the SCE Fault Tower due to the Subject
Conductor laying across the lower metal cross-arm. [Id.] Individual
Plaintiffs allege that according to SCE’s report to the CPUC, only the Gould
circuit side tripped open again at 20:57:39.402 when two breakers tripped at
the Gould substation, thereby presumably de-energizing the entire Gould-Sylmar
Circuit including the Subject Conductor. [Individual Plaintiffs’ Master
Complaint, ¶25.] 
 
Individual Plaintiffs allege that according to SCE’s report to the CPUC,
only the B-Phase was involved in the two faulting events described in
paragraphs 23-26. [Individual Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶26.] Individual
Plaintiffs’ allege that according to SCE’s report to the CPU, the fault
magnitude for the first fault initialization time was 18,700 amps. [Individual
Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶27.] According to SCE’s report to the CPUC, the
fault magnitude for the second fault initialization time was 7,300 amps. [Id.]
According to SCE’s report to the CPUC the adjacent Eagle Rock-Sylmar 220kV
Circuit did not relay or lock out. [Individual Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint,
¶28.]
 
            When the Subject Conductor fell onto
the bottom cross arm on the SCE Fault Tower, it allegedly energized the metal
SCE Fault Tower with approximately 130,000 volts of electricity that produced a
flash that was captured by dash camera footage. [Individual Plaintiffs’ Master
Complaint, ¶29.] The result of the Subject Fault at the SCE Fault Tower,
Individual Plaintiffs allege, elevated the SCE Fault Tower and its attached
overhead shield conductor to nearly full line-to-neutral voltage of
approximately 130,000 Volts. [Individual Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶31.]
However, Individual Plaintiffs allege the SCE Fault Tower was not grounded with
any purposeful grounding device (such as ground rods or ground mats) and was
only earthed through its steel-reinforced, concrete footings. [Individual
Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶33.]
 
            Individual Plaintiffs allege the
electricity from the Subject Fault traveled 12 transmission towers from the SCE
Fault Tower, where the electricity created a powerful electrical event(s) that
ignited surrounding vegetation and started the Saddle Ridge Fire. [Individual
Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶34.]
 
            Individual Plaintiffs also allege
the Saddle Ridge Fire ignited from at least one or both events: (1) electricity
from the Subject Fault propagated to the SCE Fire Origin Tower and went to
ground through its concrete footings, comprised of mental including anchor
bolts, rebar, rebar cages, and other mental materials, where the electricity
ignited ground vegetation, and/or (2) vegetation was touching or close enough
to the SCE Fire Origin Tower that the electricity ignited the vegetation. [Individual
Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint, ¶35.]
 
            Based on these events, the
Individual Plaintiffs’ Master Complaint alleges claims for inverse
condemnation, negligence, trespass, nuisance, violation of Public Utilities
Code §2106, and violation of Health and Safety Code §13007.
 
            In addition to the Individual
Plaintiffs, two other groups of Plaintiffs have filed complaints against SCE
arising out of the Saddle Ridge fire – the Subrogation Plaintiffs (comprised of
United Services Automobile Association, USAA Casualty Insurance Company, USAA
General Indemnity Company, Garrison Property and Casualty Insurance Company,
and others) and the Public Entity Plaintiffs (a group of government entities,
municipal corporations, and/or special districts in the State of California).
The Subrogation Plaintiffs’ master complaint alleges claims for inverse
condemnation and negligence. The Public Entities’ master complaint alleges
claims for inverse condemnation, negligence, trespass, private nuisance, public
nuisance, premises liability, violation of Public Utilities Code §2106, and
violation of Health and Safety Code §13007.
 
            Plaintiffs have made an inspection
demand on Defendant SCE, and seek an order making available for the purpose of
inspection, non-destructive testing, and minimally destructive testing
components of the transmission towers identified as being involved in the
origin of the Saddle Ridge Fire.
 
II. Motion to Compel
non and minimally destructive testing
 
            A. Standards on inspection demands
and destructive testing
“Unless otherwise limited by order
of the court…any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved…if the matter
either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence…” CCP §2017.010.
 
CCP §2031.310(a) provides that on receipt of a response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an
order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems
that any of the following apply:
 
(1)
A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete.
 
(2)
A representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive.
 
(3)
An objection in the response is without merit or too general. CCP §2031.310(a).
 
Further, a party may demand that any other party
produce and permit the party making the demand, or someone acting on the
demanding party’s behalf, to inspect and to copy a document that is in the
possession, custody, or control of the party on whom the demand is made. CCP
§2031.010(b). 
 
The motion for order compelling further responses “shall set
forth specific facts showing good cause justifying
the discovery sought by the demand.” California Practice Guide, Civil Procedure
Before Trial, ¶8:1495 (The Rutter Group 2023) (referencing CCP § 2031.310(b)(1)
(emphasis added); Kirkland v. Sup.Ct. (Guess?, Inc.) (2002) 95
Cal.App.4th 92, 98, 115 CR2d 279, 284 (citing text)).
 
“Although no showing of ‘good
cause’ is required for the inspection demand, the demanding party must be
prepared to make such showing if the demand is refused. This effectively limits
the use of CCP § 2031.010 et seq. for purely ‘fishing expeditions.’” California
Practice Guide, Civil Procedure Before Trial, ¶8:1495.5 (The Rutter Group 2023).
 
To establish “good cause,” the
burden is on the moving party to show both:
 
• Relevance to the
subject matter (e.g., how the information in the documents would tend
to prove or disprove some issue in the case); and
 
• Specific facts
justifying discovery (e.g., why such information is necessary for
trial preparation or to prevent surprise at trial). California Practice Guide,
Civil Procedure Before Trial, ¶8:1495.6 (The Rutter Group 2023) (referencing Glenfed
Develop. Corp. v. Sup.Ct. (National Union Fire Ins. Co. of Pittsburgh, Penn.) (1997)
53 CA4th 1113, 1117, 62 CR2d 195, 197 (citing text); see also Kirkland
v. Sup.Ct. (Guess?, Inc.) (2002) 95 CA4th 92, 98, 115 CR2d 279, 284
(citing text)).
 
“Generalized demands, insupportable by evidence
showing at least the potential evidentiary value of the information sought are
not permitted.” Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53
Cal.App.4th 216, 218.
 
The granting or denial of a motion to compel rests within the court's sound discretion. California
Practice Guide, Civil Procedure Before Trial, ¶8:1180 (The Rutter Group 2023). See
also Cadiz Land Co. v.
Rail Cycle (2000) 83 Cal.
App. 4th 74, 117 (noting that “‘[d]iscovery statutes vest a wide discretion in
the trial court, and exercise of that discretion will be disturbed only when it
can be said there has been an abuse of discretion”). 
 
The Court, in ruling on the
motion, considers the following factors:
 
·   The relationship of the information sought to
the issues framed in the pleadings;
·   The likelihood that disclosure will be of
practical benefit to the party seeking discovery;
·  The burden or expense likely to
be encountered by the responding party in furnishing the information sought.
California Practice Guide, Civil Procedure Before Trial, ¶8:1181 (The Rutter
Group 2023) (citing Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc. v. Sup.Ct. (Rolfe) (1968)
263 Cal.App.2d 12, 19).
 
The Court “shall
limit the scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or
intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the
information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” CCP
§2017.020(a).
 
            Further, “[t]angible things may be inspected, photographed and
subjected to testing or sampling.” California Practice Guide, Civil Procedure Before Trial,
¶8:1428 (The Rutter Group 2023) (citing CCP §2031.010(c)) (emphasis supplied by
Rutter Guide).
 
Under
appropriate circumstances, the court may order destructive testing of all
or some portion of the physical item in question. California Practice Guide, Civil
Procedure Before Trial, ¶8:1428.10 (The Rutter Group 2023) (citing San Diego
Unified Port Dist. V. Douglas E. Barnhart, Inc. (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th
1400, 1401.
 
Unless the
parties agree otherwise, the party demanding such tests must pay the costs:
“When a party demands discovery involving significant ‘special attendant’ costs
beyond those typically involved in responding to routine discovery, the
demanding party should bear those costs.” California Practice Guide, Civil Procedure Before
Trial, ¶8:1428.11 (The Rutter Group 2023) (citing San Diego Unified Port
Dist., supra, 95 Cal.App.4th at 1405).
 
Demand may also
be made for permission to enter upon “land or other property” in the possession
or control of the party on whom the demand is made.  Demand may also be
made for permission to measure, survey, photograph, test or sample such land or
property, or any object or operation thereon. California Practice Guide, Civil
Procedure Before Trial, ¶8:1429 (The Rutter Group 2023) (citing CCP
§2031.010(d)).
 
            Plaintiffs have brought
the instant motion, seeking an order permitting them to conduct site and
physical inspection, as laid out in the “Protocol For Inspection Re: Demand For Site And Physical Inspection To
Southern California Edison Company Pursuant To CCP §2031.010, Set One.” [See
Exh. G, Declaration of David Kestenbaum.] The parties attempted to
meet-and-confer on the issue, but those efforts have failed.
 
            As Plaintiffs break the request
down, the scope of requested testing is as follows:
 
1)
Evidence removal: Plaintiffs seek limited destructive testing near the Origin
Tower and a number of surrounding towers. Specifically, Plaintiffs request to
prepare the area surrounding Towers 2-4, 2-5, and 2-6 by excavating a small
trench in the soil surrounding each footing and removing surrounding
vegetation. Plaintiffs seek to remove small core samples of the concrete
footings of the Origin Tower, and then replace any removed concrete material to
ensure the footing is not left with less material. Further, Plaintiffs seek to
create small boring holes to allow for probing of the footings for all three
Towers, and will refill those holes after the testing is concluded. Finally,
Plaintiffs seek the removal of a small piece of what appears to be leftover rebar
that is protruding from the Origin Tower for laboratory testing. 
 
2)
Penetrating Imaging: Plaintiffs also seek to perform several non-destructive
imaging tests at a limited number of transmission towers along the circuit. The
tests include ground penetrating radar scanning, ultrasonic shearwave
tomography scanning, and impact echo scanning. 
 
3)
Electrical Testing: Finally, Plaintiffs request that they be permitted to
conduct nondestructive electrical testing on ten (10) SCE transmission towers
on the Gould-Sylmar 220 Circuit. These tests would take place over two days in
eight (8) hour sessions, and Plaintiffs have agreed to coordinate with SCE to
ensure that the testing does not result in any de-energization to customers.
[Motion at 4:25-5:12.]
 
            There are three broad areas of inspection and testing that Plaintiffs
request. These are: (1) a “current injection test” that requires
shutting down two major SCE transmission circuits (the parties disagree how
long the shutdown would be required); (2) destructive testing of concrete
footings at the base of SCE’s electrical towers; and (3) penetrative imaging of
the concrete footings.
 
            The Court addresses each method
below.
 
                        (1) The Proposed Current
Injection Test
            Plaintiffs believe that the broken
clevis at Tower 5-2, just minutes before the Saddle Ridge Fire was witnessed
and reported to have ignited, released “a colossal amount of electricity on
SCE’s lines that flow through the transmission towers that make up the
circuit.” [Motion at 1:16-18.] The overcurrent event, under Plaintiffs’ theory,
occurred when the top clevis failed on Tower 5-2, causing suspension insulators
and attached conductor to break away from the Fault Tower’s middle cross arm
and land on the Fault Tower’s bottom metal cross arm. [Kestenbaum Decl., ¶4 and
Exh. C.]
            
Mr. Felling, retained as an electrical consultant for the Subrogation
Plaintiffs, declares that the subject power line is connected to two
substations – the Sylmar Substation and the Gould Substations which can both
act as energy sources for the subject line failure. [Felling Decl., ¶4.]
Felling opines that the subject failure occurred 5.3 miles from the Sylmar
Substation, and about 22.1 miles from Gould Substation. [Id.] He
declares that SCE concurs with plaintiff’s assertion that the adverse effects
of the line failure transmit to successive adjacent structures via the overhead
ground wire. [Felling Decl., ¶5.] Felling attacks Dr. Russell’s position that
far less than 100% of the current caused by the fault at Tower 2 would have
reached Tower 5. [Id.] 
 
However, Felling explains that because each structure along line’s route
is unique, resolution of that critical question requires testing of each of
those resistance points on a system-wide basis rather than as a collection of
individual “snapshot” testing points. [Felling Decl., ¶6.] Plaintiffs’ theory
of the case, Felling attests, requires observation and testing of multiple
interacting structures and lines that are subjected to a shared, mutually
coupled event. [Id.]
 
The proposed current injection test seeks to inspect ten (10) of the thirty
(30) total towers on the Gould Circuit. [Felling Decl., ¶¶5, 7, and 10.] The
goal of the testing, as Plaintiffs explain, “is to accurately model and
replicate the electrical conditions that existed on the Gould-Sylmar 220kV
transmission line on October 10, 2019, following the clevis break. “ [Motion at
10:20-22.] Plaintiffs request the right to conduct Current Injection Testing to
obtain an accurate reading of how much current flows down each transmission
tower, which can be measured, modeled, and determined by the Current Injection
testing. [Motion at 11:18-20.] This type of testing is not destructive.
[Felling Decl., ¶11.]
 
            Defendant SCE, though, argues that
the proposed three-part inspection is unprecedented, as it will require
completely de-energizing two major, high-voltage transmission circuits for
multiple days. [Opposition at 9:8-10.] 
 
            Instead, SCE proposes two
alternative tests that would not involve shutting down the subject lines. These
are called the Fall of Potential (“FoP”) Test and the Earth Relativity (“ER”) Test.
These, according to Dr. B. Don Russell, are industry standard for establishing
the resistance and grounding of electrical equipment. [Russell Decl., ¶5.]
Russell declares that these tests would not require de-energizing or shutting
down the transmission towers, and the Institute of Electrical Engineers
Standards Association (“IEEE”) has developed robust standards for each. [Id.]

 
            However, Felling maintains that
SCE’s proposed alternative tests do not accomplish the task of testing each of
the resistance points on a system-wide basis rather than as a collection of
individual “snapshot” testing points. [Felling Decl., ¶6.] According to Mr.
Felling, SCE is familiar with the Current Injection testing and has performed
this testing in around 2014 at a new substation that had not yet been
energized. [Felling Decl., ¶8.] Current injection testing, Felling attests, is
significantly more accurate than limiting the technical analysis to considering
only FoP and ER tests.
 
            Counsel Munson declares that
de-energizing two major transmission circuits would create an enormous burden,
not only on the electrical grid, but on SCE logistically and administratively.
[Munson Decl., ¶4.] 
 
Additionally, as further discussed by Brian Howard, the Principal Manager
in Transmission Metropolitan Grids at SCE, current injection testing requires
transmission circuits to be shut down, or “deenergized.” [Howard Decl., ¶3.]
Howard attests that to the best of his knowledge, SCE has never conducted a
current injection test on the relevant circuits or any circuit for the purpose
of any litigation. [Id.] He declares that he is only aware of one
instance ever where SCE performed a current injection-type test (which occurred
in or around 2014 at a new substation that had not yet been energized). [Id.]
To the best of Howard’s knowledge, SCE had never de-energized any circuit for
the purpose of a conducting current injection test. [Id.]
 
Howard explains that even when de-energizing a circuit does not result in
direct loss of power to customers, taking a major transmission circuit – or two
as Plaintiffs suggest – offline increases the strain on the grid, which
increases the risk of unplanned outages and other electrical issues. [Howard
Decl., ¶4.] Howard attests that SCE does not take the decision to de-energize a
circuit lightly, nor can it. [Id.] Howard declares that SCE typically
only de-energizes circuits for necessary repair work in order to improve the
safety and reliability of the grid. [Id.] Howard is not aware of any
example of SCE de-energizing a major transmission circuit to facilitate civil
discovery efforts. [Id.]
 
Howard also sets forth the procedures for de-energizing a circuit. Howard
declares that any request to de-energize a circuit must be given to SCE’s Grid
Control Center Outage Coordination office at least 30-days before the requested
de-energization. [Howard Decl., ¶5.] The Coordination office must then seek
approval from California Independent System Operator (“CAISO”), a nonprofit
organization that oversees the operation of California’s bulk electric system
and transmission lines, at least 24 days in advance of the requested activity.
[Id.] Approval from CAISO, Howard attests, is not guaranteed. [Id.]
Additionally, CAISO can, and regularly does, establish “no-touch days” on
account of weather or other expected demands on the grid. [Id.] On such
days, no work that impacts the generation or transfer of power can occur, even
if previously scheduled and approved, Howard declares. [Id.] Thus, the
process may need to be repeated multiple times before the work can be
completed. [Id.]
 
Howard declares that in addition to coordinating with CAISO,
de-energizing the Gould-Sylmar and Eagle Rock-Sylmar 220kV transmission
circuits at issue in this case must also be coordinated with the Los Angeles
Department of Water and Power (“LADWP”), which owns the Sylmar substation.
[Howard Decl., ¶6.]
 
Turning to the actual logistics of the proposed testing, Howard declares
that execution of the outages that Plaintiffs propose in this case would
require System Operators at two separate switching centers (Mesa and Vincent)
to perform the necessary switching at the Eagle Rock and Gould Substations.
[Howard Decl., ¶7.] Plaintiffs estimate the testing will take at least two
days. [Id.] However, Howard estimates that the required switching would
take 60 to 90 minutes per line each time the circuit must be energized and
de-energized, meaning up to 2-3 hours per line per day. [Id.] Thus, if
the switching must be done on two separate days, it would require a total of at
least two operators and up to 8-12 hours of employee time. [Id.]
 
Additionally, Howard attests that any testing on SCE’s system must be
performed by a qualified electrical worker, likely SCE personnel. [Howard
Decl., ¶8.] No third parties, except possibly an existing approved contractor,
would be allowed to perform electrical testing on SCE equipment. [Id.] SCE,
Howard attests, would require a crew to oversee the proposed current injection
testing at both the substation and Tower 2, and anywhere else such testing was
conducted, to ensure proper electric safety precautions are followed. [Id.]
SCE, Howard explains, cannot allow anyone to perform electrical testing on its
facilities that is not provided for by a standard promulgated or approved by
the American National Standards Institute (“ANSI”), Institute of Electrical
Engineers Standards Association (“IEEE”), or a similar nationally recognized
organization. [Howard Decl., ¶9.] 
 
Additionally, in Howard’s experience, the Fall of Potential test and the
Earth Resistivity test (a/k/a Soil Resistivity test) are the industry standard
tests for establishing the resistance and grounding of electrical equipment. [Howard
Decl., ¶10.] These tests do not require de-energization of the circuits and the
IEEE, Howard declares, has robust standards for each. [Id.]
 
Based on what is before the Court, the burden, expense, and intrusiveness
of ordering the Plaintiffs’ proposed Current Injection Test clearly outweighs
the benefits of this discovery – especially given the availability of the
alternative Fall of Potential and Earth Relativity Tests. This is so, even
though the testing appears to be relevant to Plaintiffs’ claims in the case and
theory of liability. The motion is therefore denied. 
 
Notwithstanding the Court’s tentative denial of the Current Injection
Test in its current form, the Court will take further argument on this issue.
The Court is especially interested in the parties further addressing the
potential disruption to SCE’s customers and to SCE’s business from the
Plaintiffs’ Current Injection Test proposal. From the Court’s standpoint, the
paramount consideration in conducting such testing would be significant
interruptions in electrical service to SCE’s customers and disrupting SCE’s
business.  The parties should further
address whether any modified Current Injection Test (not necessarily premised
on the Fall of Potential and Earth Relativity Tests) would be feasible. 
 
(2) Destructive testing of concrete footings at the base of SCE’s
electrical towers
            The second area of inspection
requested by Plaintiffs is destructive testing of concrete footings at the base
of SCE’s electrical towers. Specifically, Plaintiffs request to prepare the
area surrounding Towers 2-4, 2-5, and 2-6 by excavating a small trench in the
soil surrounding each footing and removing surrounding vegetation. [Motion at
4:26-28.] Plaintiffs seek to remove small core samples of the concrete footings
of the Origin Tower, and then replace any removed concrete material to ensure
the footing is not left with less material. [Motion at 4:28-5:2.] Further,
Plaintiffs seek to create small boring holes to allow for probing of the
footings for all three Towers, and will refill those holes after the testing is
concluded. [Motion at 5:2-3.] Finally, Plaintiffs seek the removal of a small
piece of what appears to be leftover rebar that is protruding from the Origin
Tower for laboratory testing. [Motion at 5:3-5.]
 
Stephen Pessiki, PhD, a consultant for the Subrogation Plaintiffs and a
Professor of Structural Engineering, further discusses the proposed destructive
testing in depth, as follows.
 
Pessiki declares the removal of the concrete surface samples at footings
A and B of towers 2-4, 2- 5, and 2-6 and will be accomplished by using either
tape lift-off sampling and/or scraping the surface of the concrete to loosen
and capture material. [Pessiki Decl., ¶7.] In order to fully accomplish these
tests, where required, Plaintiffs will cut and remove all vegetation up to
twelve feet from the exterior surface of each footing of the requisite towers
to permit unobstructed access for subsequent inspection and testing with the
use of hand tools. [Pessiki Decl., ¶8.]
 
Pessiki declares that at footings A and B of tower 2-5, Plaintiffs will
excavate a shallow trench in the soil surrounding each footing to a depth of
twelve inches below the current finished grade or to a depth of up to twelve
inches below the bottom of the vertical formed concrete surface (whichever is
lower), and to a width of up to eighteen inches from the vertical concrete
surface of the foundation. [Pessiki Decl., ¶9.] The excavated soil, Pessiki
explains, will be backfilled and any removed material from the drilling or
coring of the footing B at Tower 2-5 will be refilled at the conclusion of
Plaintiffs’ testing so there is no missing material from the Tower’s footing. [Pessiki
Decl., ¶10.]
 
Soil samples will be retained during the excavation for lab analysis to
determine if the soil properties contributed to deterioration of the concrete
that is in contact with the soil. [Pessiki Decl., ¶11.] Plaintiffs seek to
perform non-destructive hammer sounding and/or rotary percussion wheel survey
of the concrete surface to determine if there are areas of delaminated concrete
which can be caused by corrosion of the embedded steel reinforcing bars. [Pessiki
Decl., ¶11.]
 
Additionally, Pessiki attests that Plaintiffs seek to perform a borescope
inspection of up to six drilled holes on footing B of tower 2-5. [Pessiki
Decl., ¶12.] Each drilled hole will measure up to 3/8-inch diameter and up to
18 inches deep. [Id.] Plaintiffs seek to perform this testing to show
crack planes and delamination in the concrete of tower 2-5. [Id.] The
holes will be drilled using an electric hammer drill and will be flushed with a
stream of water to remove drilling debris from the hole prior to borescope
inspection. [Id.]
 
Pessiki declares that each drilled hole will be located using ground
penetrating radar (“GPR”) so that the positions of embedded reinforcing bars
and anchor rods are located prior to drilling and no reinforcing bars or anchor
rods will be damaged while drilling the holes. [Pessiki Decl., ¶14.] 
 
Further, Plaintiffs seek to open up four probes in the concrete surface
of tower 2-5 measuring ten by ten inches in area which will extend to the depth
of the vertical reinforcing bars to permit inspection of the reinforcing bars
and measurements of bar diameters using a concrete cutting wheel and chipping
gun. [Pessiki Decl., ¶15.] The probes, Pessiki attests, are necessary to
physically measure the concrete cover over the reinforcing bars which is needed
to determine the dielectric constant of the concrete for interpretation of the
GPR measurements. [Id.] The testing will also allow for Plaintiffs to
visually inspect the reinforcing bars for evidence of corrosion and to
physically measure reinforcing bar sizes. [Id.]
 
The probe may be flushed with water to remove dust and cutting debris and
the side openings will be tested for their pH using a pH indicator solution to
provide indication of the depth of carbonation in the concrete which impacts
corrosion of the embedded reinforcing bars. [Pessiki Decl., ¶16.] 
 
Pessiki declares that Plaintiffs also seek to perform a half-cell
potential (“HCP”) testing on footing B of tower 2-5 on the surface of the
finished concrete and the vertical surfaces that are formed and placed against
the soil. [Pessiki Decl., ¶17.] Plaintiffs seek this testing, after the
excavation around tower 2-5 as described above, to determine possible corrosion
of the embedded steel reinforcing bars in tower 2-5. [Id.] This testing,
Pessiki represents, will not be performed if the probes on the concrete surface
of tower 2-5 do not show significant evidence of corrosion. [Pessiki Decl.,
¶18.] Pessiki declares that if this test is performed, temporary chalking marks
may be placed on the footing. [Pessiki Decl., ¶19.]
 
Plaintiffs also seek to drill four cores from footing B on tower 2-5 for
subsequent laboratory testing. [Pessiki Decl., ¶20.] This testing is necessary,
Pessiki attests, to determine the composition, condition, and causes for
potential deterioration of the concrete in footing B of tower 2-5. [Id.]
The drilled core diameters will measure four inches or smaller with a maximum
depth of twelve inches from the concrete surface. [Pessiki Decl., ¶21.] The
cores will be scanned using GPR so no reinforcing bars or steel anchor rods are
damaged during the core drilling. [Pessiki Decl., ¶22.] The cores will be
drilled using either a gas-powered or electric-powered core drill mounted to
the concrete surface with an anchor bolt. [Pessiki Decl., ¶23.]
 
 Plaintiffs also seek to remove a
protruding metal wire from footing B of tower 2-5 for laboratory testing. [Pessiki
Decl., ¶24.] This may be performed during the testing utilizing the probes on
foot B of tower 2-5 or may be performed separately. [Id.]
 
In response, Defendant SCE has submitted the Declaration of Carlos
Fernandez-Pello, Ph.D., who has been retained as a consultant. Dr.
Fernandez-Pello’s understanding is that Plaintiffs allege that an electrical
current may have caused the concrete base of Tower 5 to become hot enough that
it ignited nearby vegetation. [Fernandez-Pello Decl., ¶4.] Plaintiffs’ proposed
surface-level observation and testing of the concrete at Tower 5,
Fernandez-Pollo declares, is sufficient to test this theory. [Id.] He
attests that when concrete becomes hot—specifically when it reaches
approximately 212 degrees Fahrenheit—a phenomenon known as “spalling” occurs. [Id.]
Spalling is a term used to describe areas of concrete that have cracked,
chipped, flaked, or delaminated from the substrate. [Id.] If the concrete
surface became hot enough to ignite a fire, any evidence of that heating would
exist on the surface of the concrete. [Id.]
 
According to Dr. Fernandez-Pello, the presence of spalling does not
necessarily show that the concrete did, in fact, reach temperatures high enough
to ignite surrounding vegetation. [Fernandez-Pello Decl., ¶5.] He attests that
spalling can occur at approximately 212 degrees Fahrenheit, while vegetation
will ignite at approximately 662 degrees Fahrenheit. [Id.] Additionally,
surface-level spalling may be caused by an external heat source, such as flames
from a fire that surround the Tower, rather than an internal heat source, such
as the presence of an electric current feeding into the concrete. [Id.]
 
Dr. Fernandez-Pello declares that the condition of the interior concrete
cannot and will not reveal any information about temperature changes of the
surface of the concrete. [Fernandez-Pello Decl., ¶6.] Spalling within the
concrete footing may indicate that the inner concrete at one time reached
temperatures exceeding 212 degrees Fahrenheit. [Id.] But, Dr.
Fernandez-Pello attests, any heat generated from within the concrete footing
would need to reach the surface of the concrete in order to ignite a fire. [Id.]
Spalling at or near the center of the footing does not indicate whether the
surface of the concrete ever reached temperatures high enough to ignite
vegetation. [Id.]
 
 According to Fernandez-Pello, steel
bars, such as the steel reinforcing bars on SCE’s towers, will corrode over
time with exposure to air, heat, cold, and other elements. [Fernandez-Pello
Decl., ¶7.] He attests that concrete is not a homogenous substance, meaning it
is not uniform in composition. [Fernandez-Pello Decl., ¶8.] A sample of a block
of concrete will, therefore, not necessarily reflect the same proportions of
components as another sample of the same block of concrete. [Id.] 
 
As Fernandez-Pello attests, concrete is porous and has a great ability to
hold moisture and allow air flow. [Fernandez-Pello Decl., ¶9.] This means that
within concrete, cracks and other imperfections caused by age, water, and
temperature changes are to be expected. [Id.] Drilling holes in concrete
may exacerbate cracks and non-uniformities. [Id.] Depending on the
method and type of boring, drilling into the concrete footing may locally heat
the concrete to high enough temperatures to cause spalling. [Id.]
 
            Defendant SCE argues that the
Plaintiffs have failed to show good cause for the destructive testing, and that
Plaintiff’s theory of transmission is “impossible.” However, the Court finds the
proposed destructive testing described by Plaintiffs is reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. It is consistent with their
claims and theory of the case with respect to how the current was transmitted,
and ultimately, how the fire started. As Dr. Pessiki attests in his Reply
Declaration: 1) cracking and evidence of moisture movement is relevant to
determine the electrical resistance of the structure, which is important to
Plaintiff’s causation theories; and 2) the proposed sampling of four concrete
cores is in accordance with the applicable ASTM Standards for the examination
of hardened concrete. [Pessiki Reply Decl., ¶¶7-8.]  And as Dr. Pessiki attests, because concrete
is not a homogeneous substance, and Plaintiffs seek to examine a range of
conditions in affecting the concrete structures, a minimum of four samples is
required in order to account for the range of possible inhomogeneities.
[Pessiki Reply Decl., ¶9.]  
 
The Court wishes to underscore that Plaintiffs’ theory need not be
factually correct at this time, for purposes of obtaining discovery. The
Court’s only concern is whether the discovery sought is reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. 
 
            The other consideration on the
destructive testing, as with the Current Injection Test, is whether the burden,
expense, and intrusiveness clearly outweigh the benefits of the destructive
testing. In contrast to the Current Injection Test, there is no claim by SCE
that such testing would result in a disruption of electrical service or SCE’s related
business operations, or would be inordinately expensive. SCE argues that
Plaintiffs provide no timeline or method for refilling the concrete holes, and
that there are unpredictable effects that boring multiple large holes into the
concrete footings will have on the tower. [Opposition at 18:7-11; Howard Decl.,
¶12.] The concern is that drilling four 10 x 10 inch holes from the surface of
the footing to its center (or even the smaller four-inch and six-inch diameter
holes) may exacerbate the cracks and undermine the integrity of the base.
[Howard Decl., ¶12; Pello Decl., ¶9.]
 
            While the Court is mindful of these
concerns, the burden is still outweighed by the benefits of such testing. As
Dr. Pessiki represents, the proposed method is consistent with the ASTM
standards for the examination of hardened concrete. [Pessiki Decl., ¶8.] Additionally,
the parties will ultimately have to agree on a protocol for the drilling and
repair work, including an appropriate schedule and presence of SCE personnel
during the extraction and repair. Conceptually, though, the motion directed to
the concrete footings is granted.
 
            (3) Penetrative imaging
of the concrete footings
            The parties largely seem to agree on
the penetrative imaging of the concrete footings. SCE argues, though, that the
imaging sought is duplicative, overbroad, and unduly burdensome, and that the
Court “should limit the duplicative, cumulative, and unnecessary aspects of
this testing, including proposed testing at structures that have no relevance
to Plaintiffs’ claims.” [Opposition at 19:24-26.] Specifically, the proposed
joint inspection protocol seeks four types of penetrative imaging: ground
penetrating radar scanning (GPR), ultrasonic shearwave tomography scanning
(UT), impact-echo scanning (IE), and ultrasonic pulse velocity scanning (UPV).
[Kestenbaum Decl., Exh. G at §8.3.]
 
            With respect to SCE’s argument that
the imaging is duplicative, Dr. Pessiki explains that Ground Penetrating Radar
(“GPR”) scans are capable of determining the actual location of the reinforcing
steel bars embedded within the concrete structures. [Pessiki Reply Decl., ¶10.]
However, Pessiki declares that GPR is generally not suitable for detecting
narrow cracking in a concrete structure. [Pessiki Reply Decl., ¶11.] For that
reason, Plaintiffs propose using one of three stress wave methods which can
detect those narrow cracks in the foundations of the Subject Towers. [Pessiki
Reply Decl., ¶12.] 
 
Dr. Pessiki declares that each of the three stress wave methods proposed
have different use cases depending upon the physical characteristics of the
concrete structure. [Pessiki Reply Decl., ¶13.] Importantly, Dr. Pessiki
attests that Plaintiffs do not intend to utilize all three methods, but instead
to select and utilize the best stress wave imaging technique as determined
after on-site observation. [Pessiki Reply Decl., ¶14.] Plaintiffs’ proposed
imaging tests are thus non-duplicative, and reasonably calculated to
collectively obtain all relevant information obtainable regarding the as-built
and asaged physical properties of the Towers’ concrete foundations. [Pessiki
Reply Decl., ¶15.]
 
The Court believes that the parties are generally in agreement on
Plaintiffs’ right to conduct the penetrative imaging of the concrete footings.
As Dr. Pessiki represents, only one of these methods will ultimately be used
after an on-site inspection. With that understanding, the Court finds the
motion is well-taken as to the penetrative imaging request, and the  motion is granted.
 
 
 