 Case Number:  22STCV29762    Hearing Date:   July 8, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO SEAL
Hearing Date: 7/8/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV29762 ANDREW HEATH vs LOS
ANGELES COUNTY et al. 
Moving Party: Defendant Union Pacific Railroad
Company
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO SEAL IS GRANTED.
 
Background
This case arises out of
a train versus pedestrian accident that occurred in the early morning hours of
November 10, 2021. The lead locomotive of the UPRR train was equipped with a
video camera, referred to as the “Train Image Recorder” (TIR), which recorded
the accident from the perspective of the oncoming train and from inside the
cabin of the locomotive. On May 20, 2024, the Court ordered a stipulated
protective order for the non-public dissemination of the TIR video of the
incident. Defendant now moves the Court to seal the video and allow Exhibits E
and F to its Motion for Summary Judgment scheduled for April 11, 2025, to be
filed under seal. No opposition was filed.
Discussion
Pursuant to California
Rules of Court Rule 2.550 the court may seal a record “only if it expressly
finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that
overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest
supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the
overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist
to achieve the overriding interest.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
2.550(d).) 
On May 20, 2024, the
Court ordered a stipulated protective order for the non-public dissemination of
the Train Image Recorder video of the incident. The contractual obligation not
to disclose certain information constitutes an overriding interest within the
meaning of Rule 2.550(d). (Publicker Industries, Inc. v. Cohen (3d Cir.
1984) 733 F.2d 1059, 1073; NBC Subsidiary (KNBC–TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999)
20 Cal.4th 1178, 1222, fn. 46.)
Here, disclosure of the
video would violate this overriding interest, as it would breach the stipulated
protective order agreed upon by the parties. Furthermore, the motion is
narrowly tailored as it does not seek to seal beyond what is stipulated by the
parties. Additionally, no less restrictive means exist to achieve the
overriding interest. Any attempt to disclose parts of the TIR or to limit
sealing to certain portions would compromise the confidentiality agreed upon by
the parties, thereby undermining the protective order and its contractual
obligations. All the requirements under Rule 2.550(d) are met. Plaintiff did
not file an opposition.  Thus, the motion
is GRANTED.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 