 Case Number:  22STCV30789    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



SHANA LEVIN, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
JOSLEVIN REALTY CORP. OF L.A., et al., 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV30789




Hearing Date:


March 21, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    2:00 p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
AMENDED MOTION FOR APPOINTMENT OF A
  GUARDIAN AD LITEM FOR DEFENDANT SHEILA CLAPKIN WITHOUT A CONSERVATOR
 



 
 
 
Background
            Plaintiffs Shana Levin and
Tamara Levin, an individual and as Trustee of The Michael Arnold Levin
Irrevocable Trust, Dated February 13, 2007 (jointly, “Plaintiffs”) filed this
action on September 20, 2022 against Defendants JosLevin Realty Corp. of L.A.
(“JLR”), Marci Clapkin Weiser, Andrew Clapkin, and Dina Marshall. 
            Plaintiffs filed the operative First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on November 14, 2022 against Defendants Marci Clapkin
Weiser, Andrew Clapkin, Dina Marshall, Sheila Clapkin, and Nominal Defendant
JLR. The FAC alleges causes of action for (1) derivative claim for conversion,
(2) derivative claim for breach of fiduciary duty, (3) derivative claim to
invalidate interested director transactions, (4) direct claim for removal of
directors, and (5) derivative claim for accounting. 
            In the FAC, Plaintiffs allege that “[t]his is a case about the gross
mismanagement of the JosLevin Realty Corp. of L.A…committed over a number of years by the individual defendants
Sheila Clapkin…and her children
Marci Clapkin Weiser…Dina Marshall…and Andrew Clapkin…who together with Sheila’s other children, are the
Company’s majority shareholders,
directors and officers.” (FAC, ¶ 1.) Plaintiffs allege that “these majority
shareholders operated this long-standing, family-run real estate business as
their personal piggy bank for years to benefit themselves at the expense of
Plaintiffs, who are the minority shareholders.” (FAC, ¶ 1.)  
            Andrew
Clapkin now moves for an order “(a)
appointing a guardian ad litem for Defendant Sheila Clapkin…without a conservator; (b)
directing that [Andrew Clapkin]…be so appointed as guardian ad litem; but, if not [Andrew
Clapkin] due to some sort of
purported conflict, then (c) to the appointment of Marci Clapkin Weiser
(‘Marci’) or Dina Marshall (‘Dina’) in that order…and, if not [Andrew
Clapkin], Marci or Dina because
of some sort of alleged conflict, then (d) Karen Callan…” (Notice of
Mot. at p. 2:5-17.) Plaintiffs oppose. 
            Requests
for Judicial Notice 
            The Court grants Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice as to Exhibits
A, B, D, E, F, G, H, I, J, and K. The Court denies Plaintiffs’ request for
judicial notice as to Exhibit C.  
            The
Court denies Andrew Clapkin’s untimely request for judicial notice filed
in support of the instant motion on February 27, 2024.[1]
            Evidentiary
Objections 
            The Court rules on the parties’ “Joint Statement of Evidentiary Objections to the Amended
Motion for Appointment of a Guardian Ad Litem for Defendant Sheila Clapkin
Without a Conservator” as follows: 
            Plaintiffs’
Objections: 
            Objection
No. 1: sustained as to “March 4, 2021,” overruled as to the remainder. 
            Objection
No. 2: sustained as to “April 21, 2021,” overruled as to the remainder. 
            Objection
No. 3: sustained
            Objection
No. 4: overruled 
            Andrew
Clapkin’s Objections: 
            Objection No. 5:
sustained as to “based on,
among other things, the Clapkins’ removal of over $550,000 of cash from
existing bank accounts in the name of nominal defendant, JosLevin Realty Corp.
of L.A. (JLR),”
overruled as to the remainder. 
            Objection
No. 6: sustained 
            Objection
No. 7: sustained as to “based on the Clapkins’ sworn declarations denying any
use of JLR’s monies,” overruled as to the remainder. 
            Objection
No. 8: sustained as to the second sentence, overruled as to the first sentence.

            Objection
No. 9: sustained 
            Objection
No. 10: sustained as to “enjoining the Clapkins from using any of JLR’s funds
after finding the Clapkins’ declarations that denied any use of JLR’s funds
appeared to be false,” overruled as to the remainder. 
            Objection
No. 11: sustained
            Objection
No. 12: sustained 
Discussion 
            Andrew Clapkin states
that the instant motion is “made
pursuant to Sections 372(a)(1)-(2)(A) of the California Code of
Civil Procedure.” (Notice of Mot. at p. 3:23-24.) 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 372, subdivision (a)(1),
“[w]hen a minor, a person who lacks legal capacity to make
decisions, or a person for whom a conservator has been appointed is a party,
that person shall appear either by a guardian or conservator of the estate or
by a guardian ad litem appointed by the court in which the action or proceeding
is pending, or by a judge thereof, in each case.” Code of Civil Procedure section 372,
subdivision (a)(2) provides as follows: 
 
“(A) A guardian ad litem may be appointed in any case when it is
deemed by the court in which the action or proceeding is prosecuted, or by a
judge thereof, expedient to appoint a guardian ad litem to represent the minor,
person who lacks legal capacity to make decisions, or person for whom a
conservator has been appointed, notwithstanding that the person may have a
guardian or conservator of the estate and may have appeared by the guardian or
conservator of the estate.
 
(B) If application is made for appointment
of a guardian ad litem for a person described in paragraph (1), and that person
has a guardian or conservator of the estate, the application may be granted
only if all of the following occur:
 
(i) The applicant gives notice and a copy of
the application to the guardian or conservator of the estate upon filing the
application.
(ii) The application discloses the existence
of a guardian or conservator of the estate.
(iii) The application sets forth the reasons
why the guardian or conservator of the estate is inadequate to represent the
interests of the proposed ward in the action.
 
(C) The guardian or conservator of the
estate shall have five court days from receiving notice of the application to
file any opposition to the application.” 
Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 372, subdivision (a)(3), “[t]he guardian or
conservator of the estate or guardian ad litem so appearing for any minor,
person who lacks legal capacity to make decisions, or person for whom a
conservator has been appointed shall have power, with the approval of the court
in which the action or proceeding is pending, to compromise the same, to agree
to the order or judgment to be entered therein for or against the ward or
conservatee, and to satisfy any judgment or order in favor of the ward or
conservatee or release or discharge any claim of the ward or conservatee
pursuant to that compromise.” 
            As
set forth above, Andrew Clapkin seeks an order “(a) appointing a guardian ad litem for Defendant Sheila Clapkin…without a conservator; (b)
directing that [Andrew Clapkin]…be so appointed as guardian ad litem; but, if not [Andrew
Clapkin] due to some sort of
purported conflict, then (c) to the appointment of Marci Clapkin Weiser
(‘Marci’) or Dina Marshall (‘Dina’) in that order…and, if not [Andrew
Clapkin], Marci or Dina because
of some sort of alleged conflict, then (d) Karen Callan…” (Notice of
Mot. at p. 2:5-17.)
            As
an initial matter, Plaintiffs assert in the opposition that the Court should
deny the instant motion as procedurally defective, because Andew Clapkin “fails
to comply with the mandatory procedures to appoint a [guardian ad litem].” (Opp’n at p. 5:3.)

            Plaintiffs
cite to the Local Rules of the Los Angeles County Superior Court, specifically
Local Rule 2.8, which provides, inter
alia, that “[s]ubject to the authority of the Presiding Judge to apportion
the work of the court, the following actions, proceedings, and procedures are
assigned in the CENTRAL DISTRICT (Stanley Mosk Courthouse) as follows. These
assignments do not apply to matters heard in the other districts or in the
Complex Litigation departments…” (Super.
Ct. L.A. County, Local Rules, rule 2.8.)
Local Rule 2.8(e) provides that
“Guardian ad litem appointment” is assigned to “Department 25 or 26,
Spring Street Courthouse, except for complex cases, which are handled by the
Complex Department where case is assigned.” (Super. Ct. L.A. County, Local
Rules, rule 2.8(e).) 
Plaintiffs assert that Local Rule
2.8(e) accordingly requires Andrew Clapkin to file an application to appoint a guardian ad litem for Sheila
Clapkin in Department 25 or 26 of the
Spring Street Courthouse. 
In the motion, Andrew Clapkin asserts that Local Rule 2.8(e) is inapplicable. He asserts
that that “[w]hile Local Court Rule 2.8(e) indicates that guardian ad
litem appointments with respect to only the Stanley Mosk Courthouse are
ordinarily relegated to Departments 25 and 26 of the Spring Street
Courthouse…that reference…
by definition…must apply
only to ‘applications’ for such appointment when litigation is not already
pending…” (Mot. at p. 13:9-13.) But Andrew Clapkin does not appear to
cite any legal authority supporting such proposition. 
Andrew Clapkin also notes that “[a] trial court is without authority
to adopt local rules or procedures that conflict with statutes or with rules of
court adopted by the Judicial Council, or that are inconsistent with the
California Constitution or case law.” (Elkins v.
Superior Court (2007) 41 Cal.4th
1337, 1351, superseded by statute on other grounds as stated
in In re Marriage of Swain
(2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 830, 840.) But the Cout does not find that Andrew Clapkin
has shown that Local Rule
2.8(e) conflicts with Code of Civil
Procedure section 372, to the extent that is what Andrew Clapkin is arguing.
As noted by Plaintiffs, Andrew Clapkin appears to “misconstrue[] CCP § 372, which provides a
[guardian ad litem] may be appointed ‘by the court in which the
action or proceeding is pending,’ to mean instead the ‘department’ where the action is pending.” (Opp’n at p. 5:19-21; Code Civ.
Proc., § 372.) Plaintiffs note that “[t]here is but one superior court in the County of Los Angeles, and all actions
brought in that county are within the same jurisdiction.” (Mobil Oil Corp. v. Superior
Court (1978) 79 Cal.App.3d 486,
492; see also Super. Ct. L.A. County, Local Rules, rule 2.1(a), “[a]ll departments within the
court designated by the Presiding Judge to hear civil cases constitute the
Civil Division of the Los Angeles Superior Court…”)
As further noted by Plaintiffs, Local Rule 2.8 provides that certain specified
actions and proceedings are assigned to the “Department where case is
assigned.” (See, e.g., Super. Ct. L.A. County, Local Rules, rule 2.8(a), “Application for
post-judgment writ of attachment and writ of possession matter” assigned to
“Department where case is assigned.”) As Plaintiffs note, a “Guardian ad
litem appointment” is not assigned to the “Department where case is
assigned,” rather, it is assigned to “Department 25 or 26, Spring Street
Courthouse, except for complex cases…” (Super. Ct. L.A. County, Local Rules, rule 2.8(e).)
In light of the
foregoing procedural issue, the Court denies Andrew Clapkin’s instant motion. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the
Court denies Andrew
Clapkin’s motion without prejudice to seeking appointment of a guardian ad
litem in accordance with Local Rule 2.8(e).
Plaintiffs are ordered
to give notice of this ruling.
 
DATED:  March 21, 2024                              ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 
 


