 Case Number:  23STCV29996    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 







MILLION SEIFU, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
ROBERT Q. BERGSTROM as
  Successor Trustee of the AUGUSTUS CRAIG 2018 REVOCABLE TRUSTCREATED FEBRUARY
  20, 2018, et al.,
                        Defendants.
 


Case No.:


23STCV29996




Hearing Date:


March 21, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE:  
 
MOTION TO
  TRANSFER PENDING UNLAWFUL DETAINER ACTION AND TO CONSOLIDATE FOR ALL PURPOSES
  OR ALTERNATIVELY PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION TO ENJOIN OR STAY UNLAWFUL DETAINER



            
Background
On December 7, 2023, a number of plaintiffs filed this action against
a number of defendants, alleging causes of action for (1) “breach of
contract/contract of quiet enjoyment & warranty of habitability,” (2)
tortious breach of the implied warranty of habitability, 
(3)
negligence, (4) violation of Civil Code section 1942.4,
(5) violation of unfair business practices, (6) tenant harassment, (7)
violations of the Fair Employment and Housing Act, 
(8)
private nuisance, and (9) retaliation. 
            The Complaint alleges that
“Plaintiffs are the resident tenants of the property that is the subject of
this action, which is Unit 1, 3, 4, and 5 of the subject property located at
14917 Gagely Dr., La Mirada, CA 90638…” (Compl., ¶ 27.) “The Plaintiffs entered
into lease agreements with Augustus C. Craig, Jr., (decedent) and subsequently
with Robert Q. Bergstrom, as successor Trustee of the Augustus Craig 2018,
Revocable Trust Created February 20, 2018…” (Compl., ¶ 33.) “[T]he leases were
assigned to Defendant, STANLEY following a sale transaction on or about July
27, 2023.” (Compl., ¶ 34.) 
            The Complaint further alleges that
“[s]ometime in April 2023, Plaintiffs complained to Defendant, ROBERT, that the
units have health and safety issues due to peeled paints, rotten floor tiles,
vermin and roach infestation and thereby requested that Defendant fix the
issues. Plaintiffs never got any response from Defendant, ROBERT.” (Compl., ¶
35.) The Complaint alleges that “[o]n or about August 28, 2023…LANDIS and
LANDIS INC started demolishing the exterior walls, the balcony in the
building.” (Compl., ¶ 39.) “On or about September 09, 2023, the Defendant,
LANDIS, upon on [sic] the instruction of the Defendant, JERVIS, demolished the
garage walls, the exterior walls of the apartment, took out the woods and
window screens and installed fiber glasses. The dust and fumes associated with
this demolition and construction caused Plaintiffs severe medical issues
including but not limited to headaches, itching, coughing, sneezing and
insomnia.” (Compl., ¶ 41.) 
            The Complaint alleges that “[o]n or
about September 07, 2023, Plaintiffs made a report to the City of La Mirada…about
the construction…” (Compl., ¶ 44.) The Complaint further alleges that “[o]n or
about October 10, 2023, in retaliation against the Plaintiffs for complaints
made by the Plaintiffs to the City of La Mirada, Defendants STANLEY, NANCY,
JERVIS and DONALD served a 60 day notices to terminate tenancy from the subject
property on the Plaintiffs.” (Compl., ¶ 47.) 
Plaintiffs Million Seifu; Tereche Mengistue Gelaye; Seifu Engida
Gebrehiwot; Betsinat Seifu (Minor) through Guardian Ad Litem Million Seifu;
Nishan Seifu (Minor) through Guardian Ad Litem Million Seifu; Mekdes Teshome
Deresu; Lulia Tesfaldet Haile (Minor) through Guardian Ad Litem Tesfaldet Haile
Fiseha; Ayzia Tesfaldet Haile (Minor) through Guardian Ad Litem Tesfaldet Haile
Fiseha; Simon Tesfaldet Haile (Minor) through Guardian Ad Litem Tesfaldet Haile
Fiseha; Tesfaldet Haile Fiseha; Semhar Kiflezghi Eyasu; and Hirut Mengiste
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) now move the Court “to order cases now pending in
Department W of the Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles,
Southeast Judicial District, Norwalk Courthouse to be transferred and
consolidated for all purposes to the Los Angeles County Superior Court,
Department 50.” (Notice of Mot. at p. 2:11-15.) Plaintiffs’ notice of motion
also states that “[t]he motion will be further based on Code
of Civil Procedure §526 on the grounds that an injunction or stay of the
unlawful detainer cases will preserves [sic] the status quo and avoid
multiplicity of judicial proceedings.” (Notice of Mot. at p. 2:16-18.) Defendant
Stanly Holdings, LLC (“Stanly”) opposes. 
Request for Judicial
Notice 
The Court grants Plaintiffs’ request for
judicial notice. 
Discussion
Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 1048, subdivision (a), “[w]hen
actions involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the
court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue
in the actions; it may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such
orders concerning proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or
delay.” 
“Consolidation is
not a matter of right; it rests solely within the sound discretion of the trial
judge. . .” (Fisher v. Nash Bldg. Co. (1952) 113 Cal.App.2d 397, 402.) There
are two types of consolidation under section 1048:
“a consolidation for purposes of trial only, where the two actions remain
otherwise separate; and a complete consolidation or consolidation for all
purposes, where the two actions are merged into a single proceeding under one
case number and result in only one verdict or set of findings and one
judgment.” (Hamilton v. Asbestos Corp. (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1127, 1147.) “The purpose is to enhance trial court efficiency (i.e., to
avoid unnecessary duplication of evidence and procedures); and to avoid the
substantial danger of inconsistent adjudications (i.e., different results
because tried before different juries, or a judge and jury, etc.).” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civ. Proc. Before
Trial (The Rutter
Group 2022) ¶ 12:340.) 
In the “Conclusion” section of the motion,
Plaintiffs assert that “the Court should…order a transfer of unlawful
detainer case numbers, 23NWUD02662, 23NWUD02676, 23NWUD02675 and 23NWUD02667 to
this Los Angeles County Superior Court and a complete consolidation of all
cases.” (Mot. at p. 11:5-8, emphasis omitted.) It appears that Plaintiffs are
requesting that the Court consolidate the foregoing cases with the instant
action. 
Plaintiffs indicate that on December 14, 2023, the following four
unlawful detainer actions were filed: (1) Stanly Holdings, LLC v. Million
Seifu, et al., Case No. 23NWUD02662; (2) Stanly Holdings, LLC v.
Hirut Megiste, et al., Case No. 23NWUD02676; (3) Stanly Holdings,
LLC v. Tereche Gelaye, et al., Case No. 23NWUD02675; and (4) Stanly
Holdings, LLC v. Tesfaldet Haile, et al., Case No. 23NWUD02667.
(Plaintiffs’ RJN, Exs. A-D.) These cases are referred to collectively herein as
the “Unlawful Detainer Actions.” 
 Plaintiffs assert that “Plaintiff’s
affirmative defenses raised in the unlawful detainer cases and this case
establishes that these cases involve predominating and significant common
questions of law or fact which [sic] consolidation is appropriate to promote
trial convenience and economy.” (Egbase Decl., ¶ 11.) Exhibit “E” to
Plaintiffs’ Request for Judicial Notice contains an answer filed by defendants Million
Seifu and Mekdes Deresu in Case No. 23NWUD02662, an answer filed by defendants
Hirut Megiste & Seifu Gebrehiwot in Case No. 23NWUD02676, an answer filed
by defendant Tereche Gelaye in Case No. 23NWUD02675, and an answer filed by
defendants Tesfaldet Haile and Semhar Eyasu in Case No. 23NWUD02667.
(Plaintiffs’ RJN, Ex. E.) The answers attached as Exhibit “E” to Plaintiffs’
Request for Judicial Notice each allege affirmative defenses including, inter
alia, “Breach of Contract/Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment/Warranty of
Habitability and Retaliatory Eviction,” “Violation of Tenant Protection Laws,”
“Invasion of Privacy,” “Violation of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing,” and “Estoppel.” (Plaintiffs’ RJN, Ex. E.)
Plaintiffs argue that “[c]onsolidation is entirely appropriate here
where the unlawful detainer cases and the instant case comprise of actions
involving the same questions of law and fact, namely determining issues
pertaining to Breach of Contract/Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment/Warranty of
Habitability and Retaliatory Eviction, Violation of Tenant Protection Law,
Invasion of Privacy, Violation of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing and Estoppel.” (Mot. at p. 7:14-19.) 
As an initial matter, Stanly asserts in the opposition that the
instant motion does not comply with California Rules
of Court, rule 3.350. This
provision provides in part that “[a] notice of
motion to consolidate must: (A) List all named parties in each case, the
names of those who have appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys
of record; (B) Contain the captions of all the cases
sought to be consolidated, with the lowest numbered case shown first; and (C) Be
filed in each case sought to be consolidated.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.350,
subd. (a).) Here, Plaintiffs’ notice of motion does not appear to “[l]ist
all named parties in each case, the names of those who have appeared, and the
names of their respective attorneys of record,” or “[c]ontain the captions of
all the cases sought to be consolidated, with the lowest numbered case shown
first…” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.350, subds. (a)(1)(A)-(B).) In addition, Plaintiffs
do not appear to provide evidence that the notice of motion to consolidate was
“filed in each case sought to be
consolidated.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.350, subd. (a)(1)(C).) 
Stanly also asserts that “[c]onsolidation of unlawful detainer
proceedings is rarely appropriate and should not be permitted in this case.”
(Opp’n at p. 3:18-19.) Stanly cites to Childs v. Eltinge (1973) 29 Cal.App.3d
843, 852, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “except
perhaps by mutual consent of the parties, an unlawful detainer action may not
generally be tried together with other causes.” Plaintiffs did not file any
reply in support of the motion and thus do not address the Childs case. 
Stanly also asserts that “[a]lthough sometimes consolidation is
appropriate when an unlawful detainer proceeding and a civil action are
simultaneously pending and both raise the same complex title issues, this is
not the case here.” (Opp’n at p. 3:25-27.) Stanly cites
to Martin-Bragg
v. Moore (2013)
219 Cal.App.4th 367, 385, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “the trial court has the power to consolidate
an unlawful detainer proceeding with a simultaneously pending action in which
title to the property is in issue. That is because a successful claim of title
by the tenant would defeat the landlord’s right to possession. When an unlawful
detainer proceeding and an unlimited action concerning title to the property
are simultaneously pending, the trial court in which the unlimited action is
pending may stay the unlawful detainer action until the issue of title is
resolved in the unlimited action, or it may consolidate the actions.” (Internal
citation omitted.) Here, Plaintiffs do not appear to assert that the instant
action involves questions of title to the subject property. 
The Martin-Bragg Court also noted that “[i]n unlawful detainer
proceedings, ordinarily the only triable issue is the right to possession of
the disputed premises, along with incidental damages resulting from the
unlawful detention.” (Martin-Bragg v. Moore, supra, 219 Cal.App.4th at p. 385.) Stanly asserts
that “[h]ere, the Plaintiffs have not demonstrated their
claims would have any impact as to the ultimate issue of claim to possession of
the Subject Premises.” (Opp’n at p. 4:21-22.) Plaintiffs did not file any reply
in support of the motion and thus do not dispute this point. 
In light of the foregoing, the Court does
not find that Plaintiffs have demonstrated good cause to consolidate the
instant action with the Unlawful Detainer Actions. 
Plaintiffs also assert in the motion that
“alternatively, preliminary injunction [sic] to enjoin or stay the unlawful
detainer [sic] is appropriate under CCP § 526(b)
and Civil Code        § 3423(a).” (Mot. at p. 9:8-9.) The
Court notes, as it did at the hearing on the ex parte application to shorten
time regarding this motion, that the UD cases already have been stayed when
they were related to this case. This stay is consistent with the requirements
of both Civil Code section 3423, subdivision (a)
and Code of Civil Procedure section
526, subdivision (b). Civil Code section 3423, subdivision (a) provides
that “[a]n injunction may not be granted: (a) To stay a judicial proceeding pending at the
commencement of the action in which the injunction is demanded, unless this
restraint is necessary to prevent a multiplicity of proceedings.” Code of Civil
Procedure section 526, subdivision (b) provides in
part that “[a]n injunction cannot be granted
in the following cases: (1) To stay a judicial proceeding pending at the commencement of the
action in which the injunction is demanded, unless the restraint is necessary
to prevent a multiplicity of proceedings.” (Code Civ.
Proc., §526, subd.
(b)(1).) Here, there will be a multiplicity of
proceedings because of the claims that the UD cases were brought in retaliation
for the report by Plaintiffs to the City of La Mirada about the construction
problems alleged to have been caused by Defendants. 
In light of the foregoing, the Court denies Plaintiffs’ alternative
request for “an injunction or stay of unlawful detainer proceedings” as moot
since the Court has already stayed the UD cases. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the
Court denies Plaintiffs’ motion in its entirety.   
Stanly is ordered to
give notice of this ruling.
 
DATED:  March 21, 2024                              
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 