 Case Number:  23STCV16549    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  76 TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Jessica Sheffield’s motion to quash
deposition subpoena of medical records is DENIED.
            Defendants’
counter-request for sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel of record is
DENIED. The Court does not find that the motion was made in bad faith or
without substantial justification. (Civ. Proc. Code, § 1987.2(a).)
DISCUSSION
Motion To Quash Records
Subpoena
Plaintiff
moves to quash the business records subpoena served upon third-parties Dr. Plaintiff
moves to quash the deposition subpoena for production of business records
issued by Defendants to the custodian of records for David Robert Vargas, M.D.,
Heather Cobbs and/or I Heart Therapy Inc., Kaiser Permanente, SCPMG and KFH,
c/o Central Release of Information Unit, and Sarah A. Gbadebo, LMFT regarding
Plaintiff’s medical records.  
(a) If a
subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity
to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.


     (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1987.1(a).)
            There is
no meet and confer requirement set forth in Civ. Proc. Code, § 1987.1.
            Case law has imposed the “good cause” requirement for
subpoena document requests propounded upon non-parties, that is, the
propounding party must articulate specific facts relating to each category of
materials sought to justify production:
In the course of the litigation, Thiem
served a subpoena under section 2020 on Calcor's custodian of records demanding
Calcor, a nonparty and Thiem's competitor, to, in effect, produce all materials
in its possession relating to gun mounts, going back nearly 10 years. The
subpoena fails to identify any specific document but merely describes broad
categories of documents and other materials. 


     (Calcor Space Facility v. Superior Court
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 219.)
 
Although the scope of civil discovery
is broad, it is not limitless. . . . 
[Former] Section 2031, subdivision (l), which applies to document
production requests served on a party, requires a  [*224]  party
seeking to compel such production to "set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
discovery sought by the inspection demand . . . ." (Italics in original.)
Section 2020, the statute at issue, contains no such specific requirement.
However, since both sections are part of a single statutory scheme, and since
it is unlikely the Legislature intended to place greater burdens on a nonparty
than on a party to the litigation, we read a similar requirement into the
latter section. 


(Calcor Space Facility, supra, 53 Cal.App.4th at 223-24.) 

Even were we to ignore that the statements purporting to justify an order
compelling Calcor to produce its documents and other materials are unverified,
they still fail. There is an absence
of specific facts relating to each category of materials sought to be produced;
the justifications offered for the production are mere generalities.
The very vice of the subpoena's promiscuity is well illustrated by Thiem's inability to provide focused, fact-specific
justifications for its demands. The noted generality of the subpoena's
definitions, instructions and categories which merely add up to a demand Calcor
produce everything in its possession having anything to do with gun mounts,
precludes Thiem from demonstrating any particular item or category in fact
constitutes or contains matter which "is itself admissible in
evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence." (§ 2017, subd. (a).) The purported justification for
imposing this great burden on Calcor necessarily suffers from the same
generality as the subpoena itself. 

Although appellate courts have frequently stated "fishing
expeditions" are permissible in discovery, there is a limit. As noted in
Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal. App. 4th 1539 [39 Cal. Rptr. 2d 896],
"These rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery ( Colonial Life
& Accident Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1982) 31 Cal. 3d 785, 790), and
(contrary to popular belief), fishing expeditions are permissible in some
cases." (Id. at p. 1546.) However, early in the development of our
discovery law our Supreme Court recognized the limits on such "fishing
expeditions." In  [*225] Greyhound Corp. v. Superior Court
(1961) 56 Cal. 2d 355 [15 Cal. Rptr. 90, 364 P.2d 266], the seminal case in
California civil discovery, the court gave examples of improper
"fishing" WHICH CLEARLY APPLY HERE: "The method of 'fishing' may be, in a particular case,
entirely improper (i.e., insufficient identification of the requested
information to acquaint the other party with the nature of information desired,
attempt to place the burden and cost of supplying information equally available
to both solely upon the adversary, placing more burden upon the adversary than
the value of the information warrants, etc.). Such improper methods of
'fishing' may be (and should be) controlled by the trial court under the powers
granted to it by the statute." ( Id. at pp. 384-385.) The concerns for
avoiding undue burdens on the "adversary" in the litigation expressed
in Greyhound apply with even more weight to a nonparty. 

Had the Greyhound court been able to anticipate the tremendous burdens
promiscuous discovery has placed on litigants and nonparties alike, it might
well have taken a stronger stand against such "fishing." Greyhound's
optimism in noting the then new discovery system would be "simple,
convenient and inexpensive," would "expedite litigation," and
"expedite and facilitate both preparation and trial," has certainly
proven to have been considerably off the mark. (56 Cal. 2d at p. 376.) 

The issues in this litigation may essentially be reduced [***18]  to
the question whether Thiem's work met Delco's specifications. This may be
determined without any reference to the contract between Delco and Calcor or
the specifications which are part of that contract. Another issue which may
exist is whether Delco may recover the excess of the cost of the gun mounts
procured from Calcor as damages for "cover" under California Uniform
Commercial Code section 2712. (See Gerwin v. Southeastern Cal. Assn. of Seventh
Day Adventists (1971) 14 Cal. App. 3d 209, 217-218 [92 Cal. Rptr. 111].) If so,
differences in specifications issued to Thiem and to Calcor may be relevant.
However, discovery by Thiem from Delco should normally provide it with this
evidence. As between parties to litigation and nonparties, the burden of
discovery should be placed on the latter only if the former do not possess the
material sought to be discovered. An exception to this may exist where a
showing is made the material obtained from the party is unreliable and may be
subject to impeachment by material in possession of the nonparty. Thiem has not
even attempted to demonstrate why it cannot obtain the needed materials from
Delco or why such materials might be unreliable. 


(Calcor Space Facility, supra, 53 Cal.App.4th at 224-25 [bold
emphasis and underlining added].)
 
            Plaintiff’s
separate statement sets forth the objectionable requests in the respective subpoenas:
 
DEFENDANT’S
REQUEST TO DAVID ROBERT VARGAS, M.D.: 
 
Any and
all DOCUMENTS or ESI in YOUR possession regarding any and all treatment and/or
care provided to PLAINTIFF from January 1, 2017 to present, consisting of: 
 
1.
DOCUMENTS relating to PLAINTIFF’s ability to work; 
 
2.
DOCUMENTS relating to PLAINTIFF’s need for accommodation, work restrictions
and/or any medical leaves; 
 
3.
DOCUMENTS relating to PLAINTIFF’s emotional status/condition, including but not
limited to, suicidal thoughts/actions, depression, anxiety, and loss of
self-worth; 
 
4.
DOCUMENTS relating to PLAINTIFF’s inability to sleep; 
 
5.
DOCUMENTS relating to any of PLAINTIFF’s physical ailments; 
 
6. Intake
DOCUMENTS related to items 1 through 5 above; 
 
7.
DOCUMENTS related to communication records between the patient and this
facility related to items 1 through 5 above; 
 
8.
DOCUMENTS related to communication records between the patient and other 
healthcare
facilities related to items 1 through 5 above; 
 
9.
DOCUMENTS related to communication records between this facility and VCA Animal
Hospitals. 
 
10. All
billing records, payment records, insurance records, Medicaid or Medicare 
records,
and all records related to information submitted to insurance, Medicaid or 
Medicare
related to items 1 through 5 above.
 
Plaintiff’s
request: 
 
Thus,
Plaintiff respectfully requests that the subpoena is limited to the following
emotional distress she suffered as a result of Defendants’ conduct as alleged
in the instant matter, beginning in about 2020, as follows: 
 
Stress;
anxiety; depression; nervousness; worry; shame; loss of reputation;
humiliation; fear; concern for her safety; embarrassment; apprehension;
feelings of isolation; sadness; loss of feeling of safety in the workplace;
loss of faith that Defendant would do the right thing; and uncomfortable in the
workplace. 
 
 
 
DEFENDANT’S
REQUEST TO HEATHER COBBS AND/OR I HEART THERAPY INC.: 
 
Any and
all DOCUMENTS or ESI in YOUR possession regarding any and all treatment and/or
care provided to PLAINTIFF from January 1, 2017 to present, consisting of: 
 
1.
DOCUMENTS relating to PLAINTIFF’s ability to work; 
 
2.
DOCUMENTS relating to PLAINTIFF’s need for accommodation, work restrictions
and/or any medical leaves; 
 
3.
DOCUMENTS relating to PLAINTIFF’s emotional status/condition, including but not
limited to, suicidal thoughts/actions, depression, anxiety, and loss of
self-worth; 
 
4.
DOCUMENTS relating to PLAINTIFF’s inability to sleep; 
 
5.
DOCUMENTS relating to any of PLAINTIFF’s physical ailments; 
 
6. Intake
DOCUMENTS related to items 1 through 5 above; 
 
7.
DOCUMENTS related to communication records between the patient and this
facility related to items 1 through 5 above; 
 
8.
DOCUMENTS related to communication records between the patient and other 
healthcare
facilities related to items 1 through 5 above; 
 
9.
DOCUMENTS related to communication records between this facility and VCA Animal
Hospitals. 
 
10. All
billing records, payment records, insurance records, Medicaid or Medicare 
records,
and all records related to information submitted to insurance, Medicaid or 
Medicare
related to items 1 through 5 above.
 
Plaintiff’s
request: Plaintiff respectfully requests
that the subpoena is limited to the following emotional distress she suffered
as a result of Defendants’ conduct as alleged in the instant matter, beginning
in or about 2020, as follows: 
 
Stress;
anxiety; depression; nervousness; worry; shame; loss of reputation;
humiliation; fear; concern for her safety; embarrassment; apprehension;
feelings of isolation; sadness; loss of feeling of safety in the workplace;
loss of faith that Defendant would do the right thing; and uncomfortable in the
workplace. 
 
 
DEFENDANT’S
REQUEST TO KAISER PERMANENTE: 
 
1. All
WRITINGS and ESI that comprise, evidence, constitute or otherwise refer or
relate to medical records, or to “medical information,” as this term is defined
by section 56.05(j) of the California Civil Code in the DEPONENT’s possession
or custody or under the DEPONENT’s control, that relate to PLAINTIFF’s medical,
physical, mental, emotional, psychological or psychiatric history, condition or
treatment, or any consultation by PLAINTIFF with DEPONENT, or any examination,
testing, diagnosis, prognosis, care, treatment, or counseling performed or
conducted by DEPONENT on PLAINTIFF for any medical, physical, mental,
emotional, psychiatric or psychological condition. This includes notes, charts,
discharge, treatment, or operative reports or abstracts, photographs, and the like,
prescribed medications, drug or alcohol treatment or counseling, medication
prescription and monitoring, counseling session start and stop times, the
modalities and frequencies of treatment furnished, results of clinical tests,
and any summary of the following items: diagnosis, functional status, the
treatment plan, symptoms, prognosis, and progress to date; and billings or
invoices for services rendered to PLAINTIFF, or similar information or
documentation pertaining to services rendered to PLAINTIFF, and copies of  any such records, charts, x-rays, and each
and every document included in any such medical charts, and any other related
information or documentation from January 2017 to the present. 
 
2. To the
extent that these are not included in the foregoing, all WRITINGS and ESI that
comprise, evidence, constitute or otherwise refer or relate to any
“psychotherapy notes,” defined as notes recorded by a “psychotherapist,” as
that term is defined by California Evidence Code section 1010, or other mental
health care provider or professional documenting or analyzing the contents of
any conversation during a private counseling session with PLAINTIFF or a group,
joint, or family counseling session involving PLAINTIFF and that are separated
from the rest of PLAINTIFF’S medical record, but excludes medication
prescription and monitoring, counseling session start and stop times, the
modalities and frequencies of treatment furnished, results of clinical tests,
and summary of the following items: diagnosis, functional status, the treatment
plan, symptoms, prognosis, and progress to date. The records and information to
be produced include any other “medical information,” as this term is defined by
section 56.05(j) of the California Civil Code, in the possession or custody or
under the control of DEPONENT, which relates to psychotherapy notes pertaining
to PLAINTIFF from January 2017 to the present. 
 
3. All
WRITINGS and ESI that comprise, evidence, constitute or otherwise refer or
relate to “billing records,” billing documents, or invoices in the DEPONENT’s
possession, custody, or control, that relate to PLAINTIFF for services rendered
by DEPONENT to PLAINTIFF for any medical, physical, mental, emotional,
psychiatric, or psychological condition from January 2017 to the present. 
 
4. Any
e-mail, letters, correspondence or other written or recorded communications
between DEPONENT, on the one hand, and PLAINTIFF or her attorneys, agents,
representatives or other persons acting or purporting to act on her behalf, on
the other hand, that pertain to items described herein. 
 
5. Any
e-mail, letters, correspondence or other written or recorded communications
between DEPONENT, on the one hand, and any insurer or carrier, or any
“contractor” or “health care service plan” as those terms are defined in
California Civil Code section 56.05, paragraphs (d) and (g), on the other hand,
which pertain to PLAINTIFF or to items described in herein. 
 
6. All
DOCUMENTS and ESI described herein shall include, without limitation, any and
all DOCUMENTS, WRITINGS, medical records prepared, maintained, transcribed,
dictated, signed, and approved in connection with the consultation, evaluation,
examination, diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment of PLAINTIFF by the following
healthcare providers:  
 
Sarah A
Gbadebo, LMFT 
David
Robert Vargas MD
 
Plaintiff’s
request: Accordingly, Plaintiff
respectfully requests that the subpoena is limited to the following emotional
distress she suffered as a result of Defendant’s conduct as alleged in the
instant matter, beginning in or about 2020, as follows: 

Stress;
anxiety; depression; nervousness; worry; shame; loss of reputation;
humiliation; fear; concern for her safety; embarrassment; apprehension;
feelings of isolation; sadness; loss of feeling of safety in the workplace;
loss of faith that Defendant would do the right thing; and uncomfortable in the
workplace.
            Plaintiff
asserts her right of privacy in medical records as to each subpoena request.
Privacy is an inalienable right under the California
Constitution. (Citation omitted.) It is well established that the right to privacy extends to medical records (citation omitted), which may contain “matters of great
sensitivity going to the core of the concerns for the privacy of information
about an individual.” (citation omitted.) The privacy interest in psychiatric
records is particularly strong and, in some respects, entitled to more robust
protection than other types of medical records. (Citations omitted.)
(Grafilo v. Soorani (2019)
41 Cal.App.5th 497, 507.)
 
 
            In general,
although a plaintiff waives privacy as to information which relates to any
physical or mental condition put in issue by bringing the lawsuit, the
plaintiff retains the privacy interest in unrelated past medical or
psychotherapeutic treatment; a disclosure of the entire lifetime of medical
history is unwarranted. (Britt v.
Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 865.)
 
            The
California Supreme Court has held that a compelling
interest or compelling need is not always required in order to discover
private information—the Court must consider the factors articulated in Hill
v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994)  7 Cal.4th 1 to determine the
seriousness of the privacy invasion and the strength of the countervailing
interest required to overcome that invasion. (Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531.)
In ruling upon a privacy objection in the contact of
discovery, the party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally
protected privacy interest. (Williams,
supra, 3 Cal.5th at 552.) The party asserting a privacy right must also
establish an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances. (Id.) Further, the
party asserting a privacy right must establish a threatened intrusion that is
serious. (Id.)  The Court need not proceed to the fourth step
of balancing competing interests if all three of the above are not satisfied. (Id. at 555.) If the Court reaches the
fourth step, the Court must balance these competing considerations: The party
seeking information may raise whatever legitimate and important countervailing
interests disclosure serves.  (Id. at 552.) The party seeking
protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or
protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy.  (Id.)
Courts may not require the party seeking discovery to demonstrate a “compelling
state interest” or “compelling need[1]” simply because
discovery of any facially private information is sought.  (Id.
at 556-57.)

            Here,
Plaintiff has demonstrated that she has an objectively reasonable expectation
of privacy in her medical records. However, the threatened intrusion is serious
to some degree, but Plaintiff has waived her right to privacy to the extent she
has placed emotional distress at issue in the operative complaint (see
discussion below).
            The
factor regarding legitimate and competing countervailing interests served by
disclosure goes to Defendant’s need to show good cause for production of the
documents requested, Defendants state in the opposing separate statement:
Plaintiff
stated she has been seeking treatment for these issues from Sarah A. Gbadebo, LMFT
Psychiatry; David Robert Vargas MD; and Heather Cobbs. (Bacio Decl. at ¶ 7,
Exh. D.)Plaintiff further indicated that she has been advised that she will
need long term therapy. (Id at No.212.7.) When asked to identify each physical,
mental, or emotional injury that she attributes to the Adverse Employment
Action and the area of the body affected, Plaintiff again reiterated, “Stress; anxiety;
depression; nervousness; worry; shame; loss of reputation; humiliation; fear;
concern for her safety; embarrassment; apprehension; feelings of isolation;
sadness; loss of feeling of safety in the workplace; loss of faith that
Defendant would do the right thing; and uncomfortable in the workplace, among
other injuries.” (Id. at No. 212.2.)
 
For
instance, Plaintiff has placed her ability to work at-issue by alleging anxiety
over her career. This subpoena seeks records regarding Plaintiff’s ability to
work not only with Defendants, but prior employers from 2 years and 9 months
prior to her employment with Defendants. This includes limited information
regarding ability to work; need for accommodation; work restrictions; and
medical leave.  Each of these factors
impact Plaintiff’s emotional distress, which Defendants are 
entitled
to explore and evaluate in defense of Plaintiff’s claims.
 
Plaintiff
further places significant aspects of her emotional distress at issue. She
alleges significant emotional distress, including physical and emotional
manifestations of vomiting migraines, crying spells, and gastrointestinal
issues, among other symptoms, and has suffered and will suffer physical,
mental, and emotional injuries, pain, distress, suffering, anguish, fright nervousness,
grief, anxiety, worry, shame, mortification, injured feelings, shock,
humiliation and
indignity,
as well as other unpleasant physical, mental, and emotional reactions, damages
to reputation, and other non-economic damages. Defendants’ subpoena seeks
information related to her emotional condition, inability to sleep, and/or any
physical ailments giving rise to her emotional distress. Again, Defendants are
entitled to explore Plaintiff’s allegations in defense of her claims of distress,
including pre-existing and concurrent stressors.
 
 
Plaintiff
alleges in her 1AC as follows:
 
33.
Defendants’ harassment of and retaliation against Plaintiff have caused her
to dread going into work; caused her undue distress over her safety at work;
isolated her in the workplace; undermined her ability to perform her job
duties; and created anxiety over her career in light of Defendants’ creation of
false documentation concerning Plaintiff’s performance.   
 
34. Further,
Defendants’ harassment of and retaliation against Plaintiff have also caused significant
adverse impacts on Plaintiff’s health, including by causing Plaintiff to
experience vomiting, migraines, crying spells, and gastrointestinal issues,
among other symptoms. 
 
35. As a
result of these actions against Plaintiff, her ability to advance and/or
promote has been and will continue to be negatively impacted.   
. . .
 
44. As a
legal result of the conduct of Defendants, and each of them, Plaintiff has
suffered and will suffer physical, mental, and emotional injuries, pain,
distress, suffering, anguish, fright, nervousness, grief, anxiety, worry,
shame, mortification, injured feelings, shock, humiliation and indignity,
as well as other unpleasant physical, mental, and emotional reactions,
damages to reputation, and other non-economic damages, in a sum to be
ascertained according to proof.  Said
damages are of the type that any person would suffer as a result of the illegal
and wrongful conduct of Defendants. 
Plaintiff does not claim that she has suffered any psychiatric illness
as a result of the conduct of Defendants. 
 
45. As a
further legal result of the conduct of Defendants, and each of them, Plaintiff
was required and/or in the future may be required to engage the services of
health care providers, and incurred expenses for health care, services,
supplies, medicines, health care appliances, modalities, and/or other related
expenses in a sum to be ascertained according to proof.
 
     (1AC, ¶¶ 33 – 35, 44, 45 [bold emphasis
added].)
 
            (See
also 1AC, ¶¶ 56, 68, 80.)
 
            Plaintiff
prays for the following:
 
1. On
each cause of action, for physical, mental, and emotional injuries, pain,
distress, suffering, anguish, fright, nervousness, grief, anxiety, worry,
shame, mortification, injured feelings, shock, humiliation and indignity, as
well as other unpleasant physical, mental, and emotional reactions, damages to
reputation, and other non-economic damages, in a sum to be ascertained
according to proof; 
            Notably,
Plaintiff admits in her reply that Plaintiff’s records also contain private
information concerning third parties and when Plaintiff was a minor child.
(Bond Decl., ¶ 11.) Because Defendants’ requests are limited to January 2017
(about 2 ½ years before Plaintiff begin working for Defendants in September
2022[2])
to the present, to the extent responsive information within this reasonable
limitation includes information pertaining to Plaintiff when she was a minor child,
this suggests she had pre-existing factors that may have contributed to her
emotional distress during her employment. Further, Plaintiff does not identify
these third parties, nor why their information should be kept private.
            Given
the broad scope of Plaintiff’s allegations, discussed above, Defendants are
entitled to discover the information sought, except to the extent Plaintiff’s
medical records pertain to conditions obviously unrelated to the allegations of
her 1AC, for instance, physical injuries/ailments not possibly caused by
Defendants.    
            While
Plaintiff claims she does not have suicidal thoughts, then there would be no
records of such to produce, and the issue if moot as to such information.
            Plaintiff
requests that the Court conduct an in camera inspection to determine if the
records should be produced without redaction. The Court does not see the need
for this procedure if, as Plaintiff claims, she did not seek treatment for
emotional distress she suffered during her employment with Defendant until
2023. If no records of such treatment exists, what is there to redact? Further,
while Plaintiff claims she is not alleging a disability-related claim, she does
allege that her ability to perform her job duties has been undermined (1AC, ¶¶
33) and she has experienced vomiting, migraines, crying spells and
gastrointestinal issue (1AC, ¶ 34). To the extent these episodes occurred at
work and Plaintiff requested accommodation to enable her to perform her duties,
such information is relevant. Again, if Plaintiff never requested such
accommodations, there there is no responsive information, and the issue is moot
in this regard.
            In
short, Plaintiff has not demonstrated that she entitled to the requested motion
to quash. The motion to quash deposition subpoena of medical records is DENIED.
            Defendants’
counter-request for sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel of record is
DENIED. The Court does not find that the motion was made in bad faith or
without substantial justification. (Civ. Proc. Code, § 1987.2(a).)


