  Case Number:  24TRCV02078    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
SUSAN
  SPELL, 


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24TRCV02078




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
ELLIOTT
  WEATHERSBY, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          October
16, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Susan Spell 
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
to Strike Answer
 
            The Court considered the moving
papers.
RULING
The
motion to strike portions of the answer, namely the “affirmative defenses” at paras.
6-24, affirmative relief (at page 8), and the exhibits, is GRANTED WITH TWENTY
DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.
BACKGROUND
            On June 21, 2024, plaintiff Susan
Spell (self-represented) filed a complaint against Elliott Weathersby, ind. and
as trustee of The Weathersby Family Trust dated June 4, 2004 for (1) fraud, (2)
violation of Civil Code §789.3, (3) retaliation, and (4) conversion.
            On July 25, 2024, defendant
(self-represented) filed an answer.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
Plaintiff may demur to an answer on
the ground of insufficient pleading of defenses.  CCP §430.20. 
Under CCP §431.30(g), every affirmative defense “shall be separately
stated, and the several defenses shall refer to the causes of action which they
are intended to answer, in a manner by which they may be intelligibly
distinguished.”  “The same pleading of
‘ultimate facts’ rather than ‘evidentiary’ matter or ‘legal conclusions’ is
required as in pleading the complaint.” 
Weil and Brown, Civ. Proc. Before Trial, 6:459.  Affirmative defenses must not be pled as “terse
legal conclusions,” but “rather . . . as facts averred as carefully and with as
much detail as the facts which constitute the cause of action and are alleged
in the complaint.”  In re
Quantification Settlement Agreement Cases (2011) 201 Cal. App. 4th 758,
812-13 (citations and internal quotations).
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144
Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.               
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . . .
, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
requests that the Court strike “portions of the Answer” on the grounds that the
affirmative defenses are irrelevant, false, or improper.
            As
context, the complaint alleges that the real property located at 6548 Wooster
Avenue, Los Angeles is owed by defendant The Weathersby Family Trust dated June
4, 2003.  Complaint, ¶1.  Defendant Elliott Weathersby claims to be the
trustee of the Trust.  Id., ¶2.  Plaintiff and Elliott are cousins.  Id., ¶4. The premises had suffered
significant deterioration over the years with deferred maintenance and had most
recently been occupied by Shannon Weathersby, the daughter of Elliott’s
incarcerated brother.  Id., ¶5.  Elliott intended to restore the premises to
marketable condition and sell it, but could not do so with Shannon in
possession.  Id., ¶6.  On January 5, 2024, Elliott offered plaintiff
a tenancy in the premises at no rent in consideration for plaintiff removing
Shannon and for cleaning and repairing the premises.  Id., ¶7. 
Elliott had no intention of honoring that promise, but only made it in
order to defraud plaintiff into making extensive repairs and incurring great
costs to restore and improve the property, abusing plaintiff’s trust as his
cousin.  Id., ¶8.  
            The
complaint further alleges that Elliott told Shannon on January 27, 2024 that
plaintiff was the new tenant and he gave plaintiff the keys on February 1, 2024
so she could begin work, make plans to move in, and to remove Shannon.  Id., ¶11. 
By March 1, 2024, plaintiff was able to relocate Shannon and on March
26, 2024, Elliott gave plaintiff the information and authority to change the
utilities to plaintiff’s name.  Id., ¶13.  By April 1, 2024, plaintiff was fully moved
into the premises and was residing there full time, while continuing to clean
and repair the premises.  Id., ¶14.  On May 1, 2024, Elliott attempted to modify
the agreement proposing that plaintiff pay $7000 per month.  Id., ¶15. 
Plaintiff had already expended $53,000 of her own money.  Id., ¶16. 
On May 2, 2024, Elliott engaged in a pattern of misconduct by evicting
plaintiff through self-help means with turning off the water and telling
plaintiff that he intended to take immediate possession of the premises.  Id., ¶17. 
Elliott engaged Shannon’s friend to enter the premises and to physically
threaten plaintiff.  Id., ¶18.  Elliott refused to pay plaintiff anything for
all the work she had done.  Id.,
¶19.  On May 9, 2024, Elliott came to the
premises with the sheriff, whom he falsely told that plaintiff did not reside
there, that she was a trespasser, and that Shannon was the only tenant.  Sheriff’s deputies ordered plaintiff to
vacate and Elliott changed the locks. 
Id., ¶20.   
            Plaintiff
asserts four causes of action against defendant – (1) fraud, (2) violation of
Civil Code §789.3, (3) retaliation, and (4) conversion.  Civil Code §789.3 provides, in part, that “(1)
A landlord shall not with intent to terminate the occupancy . . . willfully
cause . . . the interruption or termination of any utility service . . . . (b)
. . . a landlord shall not, with intent to terminate the occupancy under any
lease or other tenancy or estate at will . . . willfully . . . (1) Prevent the
tenant from gaining reasonable access to the property by changing the locks . .
. or (3) Remove from the premises the tenant’s personal property . . . .”
            Plaintiff
argues in a “separate statement” that as to several of the paragraphs under the
purported affirmative defenses, they are irrelevant and “evidentiary claims” do
not belong in the answer.
            There
is no opposition.
            The
Court rules as follows:  The notice of
motion does not comply with Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1322(a), which
states:  “A notice of motion to strike a
portion of a pleading must quote in full the portions sought to be stricken
except where the motion is to strike an entire paragraph, cause of action,
count, or defense.  Specifications in a
notice must be numbered consecutively.” 
The notice refers to “affirmative defenses,” but does not indicate which
ones, although as noted below, the answer is deficient in terms of failing to
clearly identify the “affirmative defenses.” 
Further, plaintiff seeks to have the exhibits stricken but does not
refer to the exhibits in the notice.
In any
event, on its face, the answer is deficient. 
CCP §431.30(g) requires that “[t]he defenses shall be separately stated,
and the several defenses shall refer to the causes of action which they are
intended to answer, in a manner by which they may be intelligibly
distinguished.”  The answer does not
separately state the “defenses” and appears to combine several defenses, and
they are not “intelligibly distinguished.” 
The Court also finds that several of the paragraphs are irrelevant as
they do not appear to be “affirmative defenses” and or to support an
“affirmative defense.”  Moreover, the
answer seeks “affirmative relief,” which is improper.  See CCP §431.30(c) (“Affirmative relief may
not be claimed in the answer.”).  The
answer also includes “evidentiary” documents, which is also improper.  
             The motion is thus GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND.
 
ORDER
            The
motion to strike portions of the answer, namely the “affirmative defenses” at
pars. 6-24, affirmative relief (on page 8), and the exhibits, is GRANTED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.
            Plaintiff
is ordered to give notice of ruling.
___________________
 
Hearing
Date:                          October
16, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Plaintiff Susan Spell
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion
to Deem Admissions and Compel Further Responses
            The Court considered the moving
papers.  Plaintiff has filed a notice of
Submitting on the Papers as to Motion to Strike Portions of Answer pursuant to
Rule of Court 3.1304(c).)
RULING
The motion is GRANTED.
Defendant Elliott Weathersby is
ordered to respond without objections to plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set
One, within twenty days.
Defendant Elliott Weathersby is
ordered (1) to serve on plaintiff a verified response without objections to
plaintiff’s Request for Production, Set One and (2) to produce all documents
and things in defendant’s possession, custody, or control, which are responsive
to plaintiff’s request, within twenty days.
The Court orders the truth of the
matters deemed admitted in plaintiff’s Request for Admissions against defendant
Elliott Weathersby. 
BACKGROUND
On June 21, 2024, plaintiff Susan
Spell (self-represented) filed a complaint against Elliott Weathersby, ind. and
as trustee of The Weathersby Family Trust dated June 4, 2004 for (1) fraud, (2)
violation of Civil Code §789.3, (3) retaliation, and (4) conversion.
            On July 25, 2024, defendant
(self-represented) filed an answer.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            Interrogatories
If a party to whom interrogatories
are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.  CCP §2030.290(b).  The statute contains no time limit for a
motion to compel where no responses have been served.  All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served.  Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905-906. 
Request for Production of Documents
Where there has been no timely
response to a CCP §2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order
compelling a response.  CCP
§2031.300.  Failure to timely respond
waives all objections, including privilege and work product.  Thus, unless the party to whom the demand was
directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise objections to the
documents demanded.  There is no deadline
for a motion to compel responses. 
Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not attempt to
resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion.  Where the motion seeks only a response to the
inspection demand, no showing of “good cause” is required.  Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial, 8:1487.
Request for Admissions 
Pursuant to CCP § 2033.280(b), a
party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth
of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).  “Failure to timely respond to RFA does not
result in automatic admissions.  Rather,
the propounder of the RFA must ‘move for an order that the genuineness of any
documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction’ under § 2023.010 et seq.”  Weil & Brown, Civ. Proc. Before Trial, ¶ 8:1370, citing CCP § 2033.280(b).  The court “shall” grant the motion to deem
RFA admitted, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.”  CCP §
2033.280(c).
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Susan Spell requests that
the Court compel defendant Elliott Weathersby to respond without objections to
plaintiff’s initial form interrogatories and request for production and to deem
admitted the request for admissions.
The Court notes that plaintiff
improperly combined three motions into one. 
The Court further notes that plaintiff has obtained a fee waiver, so no
additional filing fees are due.
Plaintiff states that she served
the discovery requests on July 29, 2024, and that responses were due by
September 3, 2024.  Plaintiff contends
that she has not received responses.
The Court finds that plaintiff
properly served discovery requests and defendant failed to respond.
The motion is GRANTED.
                        Sanctions
Under CCP
§ 2023.030(a), “[t]he court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that
conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees,
incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. . . . If a monetary sanction is
authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  Under CCP § 2023.010, an
example of the misuse of the discovery process is “(d) Failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery.” 
Sanctions are mandatory in
connection with motions to compel responses to interrogatories and requests for
production of documents against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel unless the court “finds that
the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that
other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  CCP §§ 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).
Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a) states: 
“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a
party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the
motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested
discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”
Plaintiff
requests $1000 in monetary sanctions against defendant.  She argues that notwithstanding that she is
in pro per, she is entitled to attorney fees because she hired an attorney, Ken
Carlson, “to advise her as to the discovery motion, research and draft this
motion.”  The case that plaintiff cited, Mix
v. Tumanjan Development Corp. (2002) 102 Cal. App. 4th 1318, is
inapplicable.  That case is not a
discovery case.  Rather, the plaintiff
was an attorney who had prevailed in an action on a contract who was entitled
to attorney fees under Civil Code §1717 for legal services of other attorneys
who assisted the pro se attorney.  The
request for attorney’s fees is DENIED.
 
ORDER
The motion is GRANTED.
Defendant Elliott Weathersby is
ordered to respond without objections to plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set
One, within twenty days.
Defendant Elliott Weathersby is
ordered (1) to serve on plaintiff a verified response without objections to
plaintiff’s Request for Production, Set One and (2) to produce all documents
and things in defendant’s possession, custody, or control, which are responsive
to plaintiff’s request, within twenty days.
The Court orders the truth of the
matters deemed admitted in plaintiff’s Request for Admissions against defendant
Elliott Weathersby. 