 Case Number:  BC656002    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



TESORO REFINING AND MARKETING
  COMPANY LLC, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
REBECCA RICKLEY, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  BC656002
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  August 8, 2024
 Calendar Number:  5



 
 
 
Plaintiffs Thrifty Oil Co. (“Thrifty”) and Tesoro Refining
& Marketing Company LLC (“Tesoro”) move for the appointment of a receiver
to carry into effect the judgment entered in this matter on March 4, 2022.
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiffs’ motion without prejudice.
 
Background
 
This is a land use case relating to Plaintiffs’ right to an
easement to repair the sewer line that services their property.
 
On December 9, 2021, the Court issued a permanent injunction
prohibiting Defendants Rebecca Rickley and Natasha Roit (collectively,
“Defendants”) from interfering with Plaintiffs’ right to access, enter, pass,
and repass over and along the sewer easement on Defendants’ property as
reasonably necessary to locate, inspect, and repair or replace the sewer line
in the easement and perform all related activities. The Court granted this
injunction on the basis that Plaintiffs had prevailed on their claims for quiet
title to a recorded easement and equitable easement. The December 9, 2021 order
denied Plaintiffs’ application for a receiver without prejudice.
 
On April 5, 2022, the Court entered judgment in this matter.
The judgment reiterated the permanent injunction originally issued in the
December 9, 2021 order. 
 
On March 25, 2024, the Court of Appeal affirmed the judgment
in this matter. (Request for Judicial Notice (“RFJN”), Ex. B.)
 
Plaintiffs filed this motion on June 28, 2024. Defendants
filed an opposition and Plaintiffs filed a reply.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The Court grants Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice and
takes notice of the requested materials as public records.
 
Legal Standard
        
“A receiver may be appointed by
the court in which an action or proceeding is pending, or by a judge of that
court, in the following cases: [….]
 
(3) After judgment, to carry the
judgment into effect.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 564, subd. (b).)
 
            “Trial courts have wide and broad
discretion in appointment or receivers to take over the operation of a
business.” (Barber v. Lewis & Kaufman, Inc. (1954) 125
Cal.App.2d 95, 99.) “[S]ection 564 of the Code of Civil Procedure
authorizes the appointment of a receiver on the application of . . . any party
whose right or interest in [a] property or funds is probable and where it is
shown that the property or fund is in danger of being lost, removed or
materially injured.” (Snidow v. Hill (1948) 84 Cal.App.2d 702, 704.)
 
“[T]he appointment of a receiver is a drastic remedy to be
employed only in exceptional circumstances.” (City and County of San
Francisco v. Daley (1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 734, 744.) “[R]eceivers are often
legal luxuries, frequently representing an extravagant cost to a losing
litigant. When it appears that no reasonably certain benefit will result
to one litigant, and a distinct disadvantage will result to another, courts
should weigh carefully the propriety of appointing a receiver.” (Ibid.) A
receiver will not be appointed if another adequate remedy exists to protect the
interest of the party requesting a receiver. (McNeil v. Graner (1949) 92
Cal.App.2d 371, 373.) “In law and motion practice, factual evidence is
supplied to the court by way of declarations.” (Calcor Space Facility,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.Ap.4th 216, 224.)
 
Discussion
 
The Court’s previous denial of Plaintiffs’ receivership
motion was without prejudice. Plaintiffs’ renewed application for a
receivership is therefore procedurally proper.
 
In denying Plaintiffs’ previous request for a receivership,
the Court recognized that Defendants had previously interfered with Plaintiffs’
easement rights, e.g. by removing portions of the sewer pipe and installing
stairs over the easement, including after this litigation was initiated.
However, the Court found that the permanent injunction was adequate to protect
Plaintiffs’ rights. 
 
            The
additional facts that have developed since then do not appear to support a
receivership. During the pendency of the appeal, Defendants responded to
Plaintiffs’ contractor’s request for access by asking why it was necessary to
proceed with the work while the appeal was still pending, and the injunction
was stayed. (Covington Decl., Ex. 9.) When pressed further, Defendants did not
respond substantively. (Covington Decl., ¶¶ 10-13.) These events occurred
during the pendency of the appeal in this case, while the judgment was stayed.
They therefore do not show the type of extreme circumstances necessary to
justify a receivership.
 
            Nor
does Defendants’ other behavior. On April 1, 2024, Defendants responded to an
email from Plaintiffs’ successor in interest regarding the proposed plans and
listed a number of corrections that they wanted to make to the plans. (Rogers
Decl., Ex. 2.) Plaintiff’s successor in interest replied “[t]hank you for your
quick response. Most of your changes seem easily addressed. I am checking
feasibility on a couple and will update the plans once we are certain we can
implement.” (Roit Decl., Ex. B.) Defendants’ behavior was far from
incorrigible.
 
            Plaintiffs
argue that Defendants have sued other construction contractors in the past for
work that spilled over onto Defendants’ property. Whether or not this is true,
it is not necessarily indicative of Defendants’ future conduct, particularly
considering that here, there is an established injunction, and Defendants have
generally shown a willingness to comply with the injunction.
 
            Plaintiffs
argue that the Court previously denied the receivership due to the then-pending
appeal, and should therefore grant a receivership now that the appeal is
resolved. That was not the basis for the Court’s ruling. The Court denied the
receivership because the permanent injunction was adequate to protect
Plaintiffs’ rights. This remains the case.
 
            The
Court therefore denies Plaintiffs’ application for receivership.  If Plaintiffs experience problems with the
enforcement of the injunction they may renew this motion and bring the relevant
facts to the Court’s attention.