  Case Number:  23STCV25080    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



BRITTANY LATTIMORE AND ALL
  INDIVIDUALS SIMILARLY SITUATED, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
MOVEMENT MORTGAGE, LLC,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCV25080
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  August 8, 2024
 Calendar Number:  6



 
 
 
Defendant Movement Mortgage, LLC (“Defendant”) demurs to the
third cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”)
in the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) filed by Plaintiff Brittany Lattimore
(“Plaintiff”).
 
The Court OVERRULES the demurrer.
 
Background
 
This case relates to a real estate loan transaction. The
following facts are taken from the Complaint, and the Court accepts them as
true for the purposes of the motion for judgment on the pleadings.
 
Plaintiff is a disabled U.S. Veteran. In January 2022,
Plaintiff decided to sell her home in Sacramento and move to Los Angeles. Plaintiff
engaged Defendant to obtain financing for the purchase of a home in Los Angeles
for Plaintiff to reside in.
 
Plaintiff wanted to use Veteran Affairs (“VA”) financing.
Defendant’s loan officer told Plaintiff that VA financing would be a good
option for her.
 
Plaintiff then found a property located at 999 North Doheny
Drive 207, West Hollywood, California 90069 (the “Property”), with a purchase
price of $695,000.00.
 
The Property had been approved for VA financing since 2019,
on the condition that the buyer not lease the property for one year. Plaintiff
had no intention of leasing the property, as she planned to use it as her
primary residence.
 
Defendant knew that the Property was approved for VA
financing with conditions. However, Defendant told Plaintiff that the Property
was “not approved” for VA financing, and that Plaintiff had the option to
instead seek a conventional loan. Defendant later admitted in response to
Plaintiff’s Consumer Financial Protection Bureau complaint that it was
Defendant’s internal policy to treat the VA’s ‘accepted with conditions’ status
as ‘not approved,’ which was why Defendant told Plaintiff that the property was
not approved for VA financing.
 
Defendant also represented to Plaintiff that she could
attempt to refinance using VA financing in the future by applying for an
exception as to the Property.
 
In reliance on Defendant’s representations, Plaintiff
obtained a conventional loan through Defendant. 
 
Defendant’s process for obtaining the conventional loan
required that Plaintiff provide documentation including a letter detailing
sensitive personal information regarding her time serving in the U.S. military.
Defendant also required that Plaintiff’s parents be co-signers on the loan and
co-owners of the property. This process caused Plaintiff, who has PTSD as a
result of her military service, to suffer flashbacks, anxiety, and other
emotional distress.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on October 13, 2023, raising
claims for (1) intentional misrepresentations; (2) fraud/concealment; (3)
intentional infliction of emotional distress; and (4) violation of unfair
competition laws, Business & Professions Code, sections 17200, et seq.
 
On May 14, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion for
judgment on the pleadings as to Plaintiff’s IIED claim with leave to amend.
 
Plaintiff filed the FAC, which is now the operative
complaint, on June 3, 2024. The FAC raises claims for (1) intentional
misrepresentations; (2) fraud/concealment; (3) intentional infliction of
emotional distress; and (4) violation of unfair competition laws, Business
& Professions Code, sections 17200, et seq.
 
Defendant demurred to Plaintiff’s IIED claim on June 3,
2024. Plaintiff filed an opposition and Defendant filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading
alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The court assumes the truth
of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Ibid.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).
 
Discussion
 
“The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of
intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.
Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually
tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson
v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.)
 
The pleadings must be clear enough to allow the Court to
make a determination that a reasonable jury could find the conduct outrageous. “Whether
a defendant’s conduct can reasonably be found to be outrageous is a question of
law that must initially be determined by the court; if reasonable persons may
differ, it is for the jury to determine whether the conduct was, in fact,
outrageous.” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 534.) 
 
The Court previously granted Defendant’s motion for judgment
on the pleadings because the allegations of the Complaint were too general for
the Court to make the initial determination required by Berkley and the
other cases. For example, Plaintiff had only vaguely referenced what information
Defendant sought regarding Plaintiff’s service. 
 
Plaintiff has now amended her complaint to allege the
following facts:
 
“During the process of
applying for the conventional loan, [Defendant] required Plaintiff to provide a
myriad of information and documentation including but not limited to a letter
detailing sensitive private, personal information regarding her time serving in
the U.S. military. Plaintiff had been sexually assaulted during the time that
she was serving in the U.S. Army in North Carolina, which resulted in
significant trauma/PTSD and the Army re-stationing Plaintiff in Fort Carson,
Colorado. At that time, Plaintiff could not pay both rent in Colorado and her
house payment in North Carolina, so Plaintiff made arrangements for friends to
make the payments on the home in North Carolina. As a result of the trauma
suffered from the assault, Plaintiff exited the military with an early medical
retirement and as a 100% disabled veteran. When the friends stopped making the
house payments and Plaintiff was no longer in the military, the home in North
Carolina was foreclosed upon. Even though Plaintiff had thereafter purchased
and sold another home with a VA loan in Sacramento, California, [Defendant]
sought an explanation, which included Movement representatives demanding
specific details about the sexual assault, her disability, and her medical
retirement. Plaintiff told [Defendant’s] representative that she never had to
give this type of information when she obtained the prior VA loan for her
Sacramento home and that it was causing her a lot of distress to discuss and
re-live the details of such a traumatic experience. In response and despite the
fact that Plaintiff’s parents were being placed on the loan as additional
borrowers and co-owners, Plaintiff was told that if she did not provide this
information she would not be approved for the conventional loan. Plaintiff had
been diagnosed with PTSD and the details about Plaintiff’s assault, medical
retirement and her disability requested by [Defendant] were private,
emotionally sensitive and extremely intrusive, burdensome, and oppressive and
such request caused Plaintiff to suffer severe emotional distress.”
 
(FAC ¶ 17.)
 
Defendant was not unreasonable in initially seeking an
explanation as to Plaintiff’s prior foreclosure. However, its subsequent
conduct could form the basis for an IIED claim. Defendant argues that Plaintiff
volunteered the fact that she had been sexually assaulted during her time in
military service. This fact is not alleged in the FAC and is therefore not a
basis for a demurrer. Furthermore, even if the Court were to read such an
allegation into the FAC, it would still find that a reasonable jury could find
Defendant’s conduct to be outrageous. Insofar as Defendant needed to evaluate
whether Plaintiff’s disability explained the previous foreclosure, the relevant
facts would at most involve facts about Plaintiff’s disability and medical
history. It was not necessary for Defendant to inquire into specific details
about the sexual assault itself. 
 
Further, this inquiry occurred in the context where
Defendant had allegedly misrepresented to Plaintiff that she would be unable to
obtain VA financing for the Property, leading Plaintiff to seek financing from
Defendant. The Court does not read allegations of the FAC in isolation.
Plaintiff’s allegations reflect a pattern of conduct whereby Defendant
allegedly deceived Plaintiff into seeking financing through Defendant, and then
allegedly told Plaintiff that she would be denied financing if she did not provide
specific details about a traumatic sexual assault. A reasonable jury could find
that Defendant’s conduct towards Plaintiff was outrageous.
 
The Court therefore overrules the demurrer.