 Case Number:  22STCV09677    Hearing Date:   December 31, 2024    Dept:  29 Lopez v. Qozi-Habash  22STCV09677  Defendants’ Motion to Compel Plaintiffs to Respond to Form Interrogatories (Set  One)   Defendants’ Motion to Compel Plaintiffs to Respond to Special Interrogatories  (Set One)   Defendants’ Motion to Compel Plaintiffs to Respond to Requests for Production (Set  One) Tentative The hearing is continued by agreement of the parties to 1/9/25.  The tentative ruling below remains posted for the guidance of the parties. Background On March 18, 2022, Ariana Lopez, both  individually and as successor in interest to the Estate of Estela Moreno;  Gerado Lopez-Moreno; and Omar Alonso Hernandez (collectively “Plaintiffs”)  filed the complaint in this action against Tedmu Qozi-Habash, Daniel Kijner,  Cheridah Jones Seeley, Lakeside Community Healthcare, Regal Medical Group, and  Providence Holy Cross Medical Center, and Does 1 through  100.  Plaintiffs assert a survival claim for professional negligence;  a wrongful death claim for professional negligence, a survival claim of  negligent hiring, retention, or supervision, and a wrongful death claim for  negligent hiring, retention, or supervision, all arising out of alleged errors  in the diagnosis and treatment of decedent Estela Moreno. On February 1, 2024, Providence Health System  Southern California dba Providence Holy Cross Medical Center (erroneously sued  as Providence Holy Cross Medical Center) (“Providence”) filed an answer. On April 5, 2024, Tedmur Qozi-Habash M.D.  (erroneously sued as Tedmu Qozi-Habash) (“Qozi-Habash”), Cheridah Jones Seeley,  P.A. (“Seeley”), and Regal Medical Group, Inc. (erroneously sued as Regal  Medical Group) (“Regal”) filed an answer. On May 20, 2024, each of Qozi-Habash, Seeley,  and Regal (collectively, “Defendants”) served discovery, including Form  Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories (Set One), and Requests for Production  (Set One), on each of the Plaintiffs.  (Rector Decls., ¶ 3 &  Exhs. A-C.)  Plaintiffs did not respond.  (Id., ¶ 5.) On November 12, 2024, Defendants filed these  three motions to compel. No opposition has been filed.   Legal Standard A party must  respond to interrogatories within 30 days after service. (Code Civ. Proc., §  2030.260, subd.(a).) If a party to whom interrogatories are directed does not  provide a timely response, the propounding party may move for an order  compelling response to the interrogatories. (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) There  is no time limit for a motion to compel initial responses, and no meet and  confer efforts are required. (See id., § 2030.290; Sinaiko Healthcare  Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390,  411.) Nor must a separate statement be filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1345(b)(1).)  In addition, a party who  fails to provide a timely response generally waives all objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)  When a party  moves to compel initial responses to interrogatories, “the court shall impose a  monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against  any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes [the  motion], unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with  substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of  the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 2030.290, subd. (c).) A party must  respond to requests for production of documents within 30 days after service.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260, subd.(a).) If a party to whom requests for  production of documents are directed does not provide timely responses, the  requesting party may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Id.,  § 2031.300, subd. (b).) There is no time limit for a motion to compel initial  responses, and no meet and confer efforts are required. (See id., § 2031.300;  Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007)  148 Cal.App.4th 390, 411.) Nor must a separate statement be filed. (Cal. Rules  of Court, rule 3.1345(b)(1).)  In  addition, a party who fails to provide a timely response generally waives all  objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., §  2031.300, subd. (a).)  When a party  moves to compel initial responses to requests for production, “the court shall  impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)  against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes [the  motion], unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with  substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of  the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 2031.300, subd. (c).)  In Chapter 7 of  the Civil Discovery Act, Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010, subdivision  (d), defines “[m]isuses of the discovery process” to include “[f]ailing to  respond to or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”  Where a party or attorney has engaged in  misuse of the discovery process, the court may impose a monetary sanction in  the amount of “the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by  anyone as a result of that conduct.”   (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.020, subd. (a).) Discussion On May 20, 2024, each of the  Defendants served each of the Plaintiffs with Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special  Interrogatories (Set One), and Requests for Production (Set One).  (Rector Decls., ¶ 3 & Exhs. A-C.) No responses  were served. (Id., ¶ 5.)   No opposition has been filed.   Defendants need show nothing  more.  The discovery requests were  served, and no response has been received.   The motions to compel are granted.   Defendants do not seek sanctions.   The Court notes, however, that Defendants filed three  motions for what should have been a total of 36 motions (each of three  Defendants moving to compel responses from each of four Plaintiffs to three  separate sets of discovery requests).  Combining  discovery motions allows the moving party to avoid paying the requisite filing  fees. Filing fees are jurisdictional and it is mandatory for court clerks to  demand and receive them. (See Duran v. St. Luke’s Hospital (2003)  114 Cal.App.4th 457, 460.) Thus, Defendants are ordered to pay additional  filing fees. This ruling will be final ad effective only upon Defendants’  filing with the Court of proof of payment of the 33 additional filing fees.   Conclusion   The hearing is continued.The Court's tentative ruling is to grant the motions to  compel.   The Court's tentative ruling is to order the moving parties to pay  the additional 33 additional filing fees and to file and serve a notice of  proof of payment.   The Court's tentative ruling is to order Plaintiff Ariana Lopez  to serve written, verified, code-compliant responses, without objection, to  each of Defendants’ Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories  (Set One), and Requests for Production (Set One), within 15 days of service of  the notice of ruling and service of the notice of the proof of payment (whichever  is later).   The Court's tentative ruling is to order Plaintiff Ariana Lopez  as successor in interest to the Estate of Estela Moreno to serve written,  verified, code-compliant responses, without objection, to each of Defendants’  Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories (Set One), and Requests  for Production (Set One), within 15 days of service of the notice of ruling and  service of the notice of the proof of payment (whichever is later).   The Court's tentative ruling is to order Plaintiff Gerado Lopez-Moreno  to serve written, verified, code-compliant responses, without objection, to  each of Defendants’ Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special Interrogatories  (Set One), and Requests for Production (Set One), within 15 days of service of  the notice of ruling and service of the notice of the proof of payment (whichever  is later).   The Court's tentative ruling is to order Plaintiff Omar  Alonso Hernandez to serve written, verified, code-compliant responses, without  objection, to each of Defendants’ Form Interrogatories (Set One), Special  Interrogatories (Set One), and Requests for Production (Set One), within 15  days of service of the notice of ruling and service of the notice of the proof  of payment (whichever is later).   The Court's tentative ruling is to order moving parties to  give notice.