  Case Number:  21STCV43455    Hearing Date:   December 31, 2024    Dept:  29 Carmona v. Villasenor
21STCV43455
Defendants’ Motion to Continue Trial 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On November 24, 2021, Juan Carmona, Hilda Chamul, and
Ruth Chamul filed a complaint against Moises Villasenor, Javier Villasenor, and
Estella Villasenor as trustee of the Villasenor Family Trust, and Does 1 through
50 for general negligence, intentional tort, and premises liability arising out
of an apartment fire on November 27, 2019, in a building on East 50th Street in
Los Angeles.
 
On February 2, 2023, Juan Carmona, Hilda Chamul, Ruth
Chamul, Yessica Hernandez, a minor, Aracely Carmona, a minor, and Alexander
Carmona, a minor (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
against Moises Villasenor, Javier Villasenor, and Estella Villasenor as trustee
of the Villasenor Family Trust, asserting the same causes of action.


On November 29, 2023, Estela Villasenor, trustee of the
Villasenor Family Trust, filed an answer. 
 
On May 16, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a request to dismiss Javier
Villasenor.
 
On October 8, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a request to dismiss
their cause of action for intentional tort.
 
On December 11, 2024, Moises Villasenor filed an answer.
 
On
November 22, 2024, Defendants Moises Villasenor and Estella Villasenor as trustee of
the Villasenor Family Trust (collectively “Defendants”) filed this motion to continue trial. No
opposition has been filed.
 
Trial is currently set for February 20, 2025.
 
Legal Standard

 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 128, subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the
power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make them conform to
law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance should be granted
is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams
(1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) 
 
“A trial court
has wide latitude in the matter of calendar control including the granting or
denying of continuances.” (Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49
Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
“To ensure the prompt disposition of civil
cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm. 
All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(a).)
“Although continuances of trials are
disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c).)  “The court may grant a
continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.”  (Ibid.)  Circumstances that may support a finding of
good cause include:  
“(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances;  
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  
(5) The addition
of a new party if: (A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to
conduct discovery and prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had
a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard
to the new party's involvement in the case; 

(6) A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or  
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a motion or application for
continuance, the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are
relevant to the determination.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d) sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that
the court may consider:  
“(1) The
proximity of the trial date;  
(2) Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party;  
(3) The length
of the continuance requested;  
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 

(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;

(6) If the case
is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and
whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's
calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 

(9) Whether all
parties have stipulated to a continuance; 

(10) Whether the
interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other
fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
Discussion
 
Defendants bring this motion to continue
trial.  According to Defendants’ counsel,
the parties have already completed a significant amount of discovery, including
(but not limited to) the subpoenas of Plaintiffs’ medical records, a site inspection,
and the depositions of all parties.  (Whirl
Decl., ¶¶ 3-6.)  
 
Defendants seek a trial continuance on two
grounds.
 
First, Defendants contend that there is no
evidence in support of Plaintiffs’ allegations and seek a trial continuance so
that they may file a summary judgment motion. 
(Id., ¶¶ 7, 9.)  Second,
Defendants contend that they learned of the “necessity” for independent medical
examinations of Plaintiffs in August but they were scheduled (as of the time the
motion was filed) for late December.  (Id.,
¶ 10.)
 
The Court also notes that the pleadings were
not settled, and the case was not at issued, until December 11, 2024.
 
On these facts, the Court finds good cause to
continue the trial date for approximately 90 days.
 
The Court will look with disfavor on any further
request to continue trial.
 
Conclusion. 
The Court GRANTS
the motion of Defendants to continue trial.
The Court
CONTINUES the trial date to a date on or after May 23, 2025.
The Final Status
Conference and all discovery deadlines are reset based on the new trial date.
Moving party is
to give notice.