  Case Number:  24STCV11720    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  34 Alana Trubitz v. Serendipity Labs, Inc. (24STCV11720)
 
 
Defendant Serendipity Labs, Inc.’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration is DENIED. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff
Alana Trubitz (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows: 
            
Plaintiff was an employee of Defendant Serendipity
Labs, Inc. (“Defendant”) from April 23, 2018, until January 22, 2024, when
Plaintiff was terminated. 
 
In February 2023, Plaintiff was promoted to Regional
Director of Sales and reported to the Vice President of Sales, Jeni Smith
(“Smith”). Throughout Plaintiff’s employment, Plaintiff had excelled in her
performance and constantly received positive feedback. Nevertheless, in July
2023, Plaintiff was criticized for failing to properly process a work matter
and addressed her deficiencies with Smith. 
 
On August 9, 2023, Plaintiff received a Performance
Improvement Plan (“PIP”) for not achieving her sales’ quota. Plaintiff
expressed her disagreement with the PIP and proposed modifications to it. However,
Smith did not follow up with Plaintiff regarding her PIP and neither person
signed it. Thereafter, Plaintiff’s progress was not reviewed in accordance with
the PIP and there were no subsequent discussions regarding it.  Subsequently, in the fall and December 2023,
Plaintiff was recognized as a top seller during several team field calls.
 
On January 4, 2024, Plaintiff was matched for the
adoption of a newborn child from an expectant birth mother with a due date of
February 26, 2024. On January 8, 2024, Plaintiff shared this information with
Smith and informed her of Plaintiff’s plans to take leave at the end of
February 2024. In response, Smith advised Plaintiff to not inform human
resources or management of her plans until the adoption was certain.
Nevertheless, Plaintiff contacted Defendant’s human resource management company,
TriNet HR Corporation (“TriNet”), to inquire about the company’s leave policy. After
doing so, Plaintiff concluded that since her leave was foreseeable, it was best
for her to notify Defendant’s internal human resources department about her
plans. 
 
On January 9, 2024, Plaintiff emailed Taury Phelps
(“Phelps”), Human Resource Specialists, notifying her about the adoption and
her anticipated leave. Plaintiff expressed her interest in discussing the leave
process and enclosed a letter from the adoption agency. Phelps congratulated
Plaintiff and assured her of a follow-up regarding her questions. However,
Phelps failed to provide any additional information or a response to
Plaintiff’s leave request. 
 
On January 22, 2024, Plaintiff was abruptly
terminated for “insufficient progress in meeting the performance standards
required” for her role. Plaintiff was surprised by her termination as she had
not received any follow-up discussions regarding her PIP and had recently been
recognized as a top seller. 
 
On
May 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Complaint asserting the following causes of
action against Defendant and Does 1-10:
 
1.           Violations
of California Family Rights Act; 
2.           Retaliation
in Violation of the California Family Rights Act; and 
3.           Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy.  
 
On
June 27, 2024, Defendant filed their Answer to Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
On
September 5, 2024, Defendant filed their Motion to Compel Arbitration. On
September 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to Defendant’s Motion. On September
24, 2024, Defendant filed a reply to Plaintiff’s opposition.   
 
Legal Standard
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy,
the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the
controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been
waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for rescission of the
agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subds. (a) and (b).)
The party seeking to compel arbitration bears
the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the
preponderance of the evidence. (Hotels Nevada v. L.A. Pacific Center, Inc.
(2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 754, 761.) The burden then shifts to the opposing party
to prove by a preponderance of the evidence a defense to enforcement (e.g.,
fraud, unconscionability, etc.) (Id.) “In these summary proceedings, the
trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations,
and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the
court’s discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Engalla v. Permanente
Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972.)
“If a court of competent jurisdiction. . . has
ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or
proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action
or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in
accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court
specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4).
 
Discussion
 
Defendant moves
the court for orders compelling arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims and staying
all further judicial proceedings in this action pending completion of
arbitration. 
 
A.             
Evidentiary Objections 
 
Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections to Defendant’s evidence supporting their Motion are
overruled. 
Defendant’s evidentiary
objections to Plaintiff’s declaration are also overruled. 
 
B.             
Existence of an Arbitration Agreement
 
Defendant argues
that Plaintiff and Defendant entered into an arbitration agreement on April 24,
2018, when Plaintiff digitally accepted TriNet’s Terms and Conditions Agreement
(“TCA”), which included TriNet’s Dispute Resolution Protocol (“DRP”) during
Plaintiff’s onboarding documents. (Weiss Decl., ¶¶ 5, 13-14.) Defendant
provides evidence of such TCA and DRP. (Id., Exh. A pp. 5-8.) Defendant
also provides evidence showcasing Plaintiff’s acceptance of the TCA. (Id.,
Exh. B.) The DRP provides, in relevant part, as follows: 
 
(a)  
How The DRP Applies
 
Subject
to the limitations in subsection (b), this DRP covers any dispute arising out
of or relating to your co-employment with TriNet, including your TriNet
co-employer, and/or arising out of or relating to your employment with your
company, as well as any dispute with an employee, officer, or director of
TriNet or of a TriNet customer (all of whom, in addition to TriNet customers,
are intended to be beneficiaries of this DRP) (“covered dispute”). The Federal
Arbitration Act applies to this DRP. Also, any applicable internal procedures
for resolving disputes (e.g., procedures in the employee handbook for
complaining about, and addressing complaints about, misconduct), as well as the
option of mediation, will continue to apply with the goal being to resolve
disputes before they are arbitrated. This DRP will survive termination of the
employment relationship. With only the exceptions described below,
arbitration will replace going before a court for a judge or jury trial, and
even in the situations described below, NO JURY TRIAL WILL BE PERMITTED, unless
applicable law does not allow enforcement of a pre-dispute jury trial waiver in
the particular circumstances presented.
 
(b)  Limitations
On How The DRP Applies 
 
 The mandatory arbitration requirement of this
DRP does not apply to claims for workers’ compensation, state disability
insurance or unemployment insurance benefits, nor does it apply to claims
against a federal contractor if such claims are not subject to pre-dispute
mandatory arbitration agreements, nor to claims properly made pursuant to a
collective bargaining agreement’s dispute resolution procedure if you are
represented by a union and the dispute resolution procedure in the collective
bargaining agreement conflicts with this DRP. The mandatory arbitration
requirement does not prevent a party from bringing complaints, claims or
charges before the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the U.S. Department
of Labor, the National Labor Relations Board, or the Office of Federal Contract
Compliance Program, and does not prevent a party from bringing claims in any
forum as provided in Public Laws 111-203, 111-118 & 112-10. Further, claims
may be brought before any other administrative agency, provided applicable law
does not preclude the right to bring claims there when there is a mandatory
arbitration agreement.
 
If
at the time of a covered dispute there is an agreement between you and your
company governing the resolution of the covered dispute, then to the extent
inconsistent with this DRP, that agreement will be controlling as between you
and your company (and its employees, officers, and agents). The applicability
of this DRP to covered disputes between you and TriNet (and its employees,
officers, and agents) will be unaffected by the existence of an agreement
between you and your company regarding dispute resolution. 
 
This
DRP does not excuse a requirement that a party exhaust administrative remedies
before initiating the DRP to resolve a covered dispute.
 
(Id.,
Exh. A pp. 5-6 [emphasis in original].)
 
Plaintiff
argues that Defendant failed to provide sufficient evidence to prove the
existence of an arbitration agreement as there is no evidence that Plaintiff’s
purported electronic acknowledgement of the TCA was the act of Plaintiff. (Opp.,
5:8-11.) Plaintiff also argues that the DRP is unconscionable, both
procedurally and substantively, thus unenforceable. (Id., 5:11-12.)
Lastly, Plaintiff argues that the DRP is so unconscionable that the interests
of justice would not be furthered by severance. (Id., 5:12-14.)
 
C.             
Plaintiff’s Acknowledgement 
 
Defendant alleges
that TriNet oversees the onboarding process of its employees through a
password-protected platform. (Weiss Decl., ¶ 6.) As part of the onboarding
process, TriNet sends new employees a “Welcome” email to their provided email
address which allows employees to set up their account’s login information and
additional security questions. (Id., ¶ 7.) Defendant alleges that an
employee’s login information remains strictly confidential, and that Defendant
does not have access to change an employee’s password. (Id., ¶ 8.) Additionally,
Defendant alleges that TriNet cannot directly access an employee’s account or
perform any function within TriNet’s platform as the user. (Ibid.) Defendant
alleges that once an employee’s profile is complete, each employee is presented
with the full text of the TCA for them to review and accept. (Id., ¶ 9.)
To accept the TCA, Plaintiff was required to enter an email address at the
bottom of the screen and click an “I Accept” button. (Ibid.) Defendant provides
a copy of Plaintiff’s TriNet account that shows that she accepted the TCA,
including the DRP, on April 24, 2018. (Id., ¶ 13, Exh. B.) Defendant
further alleges that once an employee accepts the TCA, TriNet’s system
generates and sends an email to the employee’s email address confirming their
acceptance. (Id., ¶ 15.) This email also attaches a PDF copy of the TCA
that the employee accepted. (Ibid.) Defendant provides a copy of the
email sent to Plaintiff confirming her acceptance of the TCA, including the DRP,
on April 24, 2018. (Id., Exh. C.) 
 
Plaintiff
argues that even after reviewing Exhibit A in the Declaration of Elizabeth
Weiss, Plaintiff cannot “recall seeing, reading, or being presented” with the
TCA, including the DRP during Plaintiff’s onboarding process. (Trubitz Decl.,
¶¶ 6-7.) Additionally, Plaintiff argues that she does not recall receiving clear
notice about the existence of an arbitration agreement in the online boarding
system. (Id., ¶ 9.) As such, Plaintiff contends that Plaintiff’s
inability to recall accepting the TCA is sufficient to create a factual dispute
about the existence of an enforceable arbitration agreement, shifting the
burden back to Defendant to show otherwise. (Opp., 7:19-23.) 
 
Additionally,
Plaintiff argues that Defendant fails to meet their evidentiary burden that the
electronic record was the act of Plaintiff. (Opp., 7:24-25.) Plaintiff cites Espejo
v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th
1047, 1060 to argue that “the Court looks to factors such as: (1) the privacy
of an employee’s user name, (2) the requirement that the employee reset his
password before accessing the system, (3) the existence of a signature line
containing the signatory’s typed full name, (4) identification of the time the
document was electronically signed, and (5) an IP address identifying the
location where it was signed” to determine whether the employee was the one to
sign the disputed arbitration agreement. (Id., 7:26-28, 8:1-8.)
Plaintiff argues that since Defendant does not produce any evidence that
Plaintiff is the one who reset her password, that the TCA had a signature line
with Plaintiff’s full printed name, the time that the TCA was signed, or any IP
address, Defendant fails to authenticate Plaintiff’s acceptance as hers. (Id.,
8:9-12.) 
 
Plaintiff
also argues that Defendant failed to authenticate Plaintiff’s acceptance of the
TCA by: (1) failing to produce the actual “Welcome” email between TriNet and
Plaintiff and how Plaintiff’s identity was verified as the person who accessed
the TriNet platform; (2) Defendant’s declarations in support of their Motion
are subject to evidentiary objection; (3) Defendant does not demonstrate the
progression through the TCA and DRP to show the actual prompts Plaintiff would
have encountered during the onboarding process, (4) there is no supporting
documentation authorizing the use of electronic signatures; and (5) the purported
exhibit showing Plaintiff’s acceptance of the TCA and DRP does not reference
either document, does not bear any file names, lacks an electronic signature
bearing Plaintiff’s name, has no time stamp, and has no IP address. (Id.,
8:15-28, 9:1-22.) 
 
Lastly,
Plaintiff argues that no arbitration agreement exists since there was no mutual
assent to the TCA and DRP as Plaintiff understood that the documents she
accessed pertained solely to the use of the TriNet portal and TriNet’s specific
functions of providing payroll and employee benefits. (Opp., 10:8-22; Trubitz
Decl. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff contends that if she would have known that she had the
option to not waive her right to a jury trial without jeopardizing her
employment with Defendant, Plaintiff would not have signed any documents that
waived her right to a jury trial. (Opp., 10:8-22)
 
The court
finds that Defendant has met its initial burden of proving the existence of an
arbitration agreement between the parties wherein the parties agreed to
arbitrate this dispute by providing Exhibits A and B in the Declaration of
Elizabeth Weiss. The burden thus shifts to Plaintiff, who may present any
challenges to the enforcement of the agreement and evidence in support of those
challenges. 
 
As such, the
court finds that Plaintiff’s arguments are insufficient to challenge the
enforceability of the TCA and DRP. Plaintiff’s inability to remember whether
she accepted the TCA back in 2018 does not override Defendant’s evidence
showing otherwise. 
 
Additionally,
Plaintiff’s use of Espejo fails to recognize that the court in that case
looked at factors to find that the employee’s electronic signature was
theirs and not at requirements to authenticate the signature. “In Espejo,
the court found the defendants met their burden in showing the electronic
signature was authentic as the defendant ‘detailed [defendant]'s security
precautions regarding transmission and use of an applicant's unique user name
and password, as well as the steps an applicant would have to take to place his
or her name on the signature line of the employment agreement....’” (Lorenzo
Smith v. Rent-A-Center, Inc. (2019) 1:18-CV-01351 LJO JLT (citing Espejo,
supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at p. 1062.) As such, Defendant’s failure to provide
evidence of anything more than the information purported on Elizabeth Weiss’
declaration regarding the process every employee undergoes to accept the TCA
and DRP and Exhibits B and C, does not render the arbitration agreement inexistent.
Defendant’s evidence meets the threshold found in Espejo.
 
Plaintiff’s
five arguments that Defendant failed to authenticate Plaintiff’s acceptance of
the TCA are similarly insufficient since Defendant is not required to show such
specific information. It is sufficient for Defendant to present a copy of the
arbitration agreement to the Court to meet their burden and show that an
arbitration agreement exists. (See Condee v. Longwood Management Corp.
(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218, 105 Cal.Rptr.2d 597.)
Similarly, Plaintiff’s argument that there was no meeting of the minds due
to Plaintiff’s unawareness that the TCA contained an arbitration agreement does
not challenge the existence of the TCA and DRP. An agreement does not cease to
exist solely due to a party’s lack of awareness as to what they are agreeing
to. “Ordinarily when a person with capacity of
reading and understanding an instrument signs it, he may not, in the absence of
fraud, imposition or excusable neglect, avoid its terms on the ground he failed
to read it before signing it.” (Ramirez v. Superior Court (1980) 103
Cal.App.3d 746, 754 [citation omitted].) “No law requires that parties dealing
at arm’s length have a duty to explain to each other the terms of a written
contract . . . Reliance on an alleged misrepresentation is not reasonable when
plaintiff could have ascertained the truth through the exercise of reasonable
diligence. [Citation.] Reasonable diligence requires the reading of a contract
before signing it. A party cannot use his own lack of diligence to avoid an
arbitration agreement. [Citation.]” (Rowland v. PaineWebber Inc. (1992)
4 Cal.App.4th 279, 286.)
Thus, the
Court finds that an arbitration agreement between the parties exists.
 
D.             
Enforceability – Unconscionability 
 
“Agreements to
arbitrate may be invalidated if they are found to be unconscionable.” (Fitz v.
NCR Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 702, 713, citations omitted.) 
 
“Unconscionability
consists of both procedural and substantive elements. The procedural element
addresses the circumstances of contract negotiation and formation, focusing on
oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power. Substantive unconscionability
pertains to the fairness of an agreement's actual terms and to assessments of
whether they are overly harsh or one-sided. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Ass’n v.
Pinnacle Mkt. Dev. (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 246 [citations omitted].)

 
“‘The prevailing
view is that [procedural and substantive unconscionability] must both be
present in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a
contract or clause under
the doctrine of unconscionability.’ But they need not be present in the same
degree. ‘Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity
of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in
proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive
terms themselves.’ In other words, the more substantively oppressive the
contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to
come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa. (Armendariz
v. Found. Health Psychcare Servs., Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114, [cleaned
up], italics in original, abrogated in part on other grounds by AT&T
Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2010) 565 U.S. 333.).) 
 
“The
party resisting arbitration bears the burden of proving unconscionability.” (Pinnacle,
supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 247, citation omitted.) 
 
“Moreover,
courts are required to determine the unconscionability of the contract ‘at the
time it was made.’” (Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61
Cal.4th 899, 920, quoting Civ. Code, § 1670.5.) 
 
“Unconscionability
is ultimately a question of law.” (Patterson v. ITT Consumer Fin. Corp.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 1659, 1663, citation omitted.)
 
Plaintiff argues that the DRP is both
procedurally and substantively unconscionable and, therefore, unenforceable.
(Opp., 10:24-28, 11:1-17.) 
 
1.              
Procedural Unconscionability
 
“[P]rocedural
unconscionability requires oppression or surprise. Oppression occurs where a
contract involves lack of negotiation and meaningful choice. Surprise where the
allegedly unconscionable provision is hidden within a prolix printed form.” (Pinnacle,
supra, 55 Cal.4th at p. 247 [cleaned up].)
 
Plaintiff
argues that the DRP is “unquestionably adhesive” since there is a significant
economic disparity between Defendant and Plaintiff that led to unequal
bargaining power. (Opp., 12:5-11.) Plaintiff argues that she did not have any
meaningful opportunity to negotiate or reject the terms of the DRP and it was
presented in a mandatory click-through format as a prerequisite for accessing
TriNet’s services for payroll and employee benefits. (Ibid.) Plaintiff
argues that the TCA and DRP had a “take-it-or-leave-it” approach and refusing
to accept the terms would have jeopardized her employment with Defendant. (Ibid.)

 
Additionally,
Plaintiff argues that the DRP was procedurally unconscionable because of
surprise since it was buried within an 8-page document. (Id., 12:12-23.)
Plaintiff notes that the DRP was not made to stand out among the rest of the
contents in the TCA. (Ibid.) Moreover, Plaintiff argues that the DRP
failed to indicate that by accepting, Plaintiff would be obligated to arbitrate
her claims even for matters unrelated to payroll or her employee benefits as
she assumed. (Id., Trubitz Decl. ¶ 3.) Lastly, Plaintiff argues that the
TCA acceptance confirmation email Plaintiff received did not mention the DRP
adding to the lack of transparency which makes the DRP procedurally
unconscionable. (Opp., 12:15-23.) 
 
“[A]
compulsory pre-dispute arbitration agreement is not rendered unenforceable just
because it is required as a condition of employment or offered on a 'take it or
leave it' basis.” (Lagatree v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps
(1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1127.) However, the fact that an arbitration
agreement is mandatory for employment may be a factor in determining that it is
procedurally unconscionable. (See, e.g., Trivedi v. Curexo Technology Corp.
(2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 387, 393; Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114-115.) Where a contract of adhesion
includes the unequal bargaining power of contracting parties, with the weaker
party's inability to negotiate, this may indicate procedural unconscionability
in the form of oppression. (See Thompson v. Toll Dublin, LLC (2008) 165
Cal.App.4th 1360, 1372.)
 
Although, Defendant’s
TCA and DRP cannot be held unenforceable merely because it is required as a
condition of employment, the additional lack of transparency as argued by
Plaintiff does render it procedurally unconscionable. Defendant did not take
any additional steps to highlight to Plaintiff that she was signing an
arbitration agreement in either the TCA itself, the onboarding process, or the
confirmation email Plaintiff received. 
 
As such, the
court finds the TCA and DRP procedurally unconscionable. 
 
2.              
Substantive Unconscionability 
 
“‘Substantive unconscionability’ focuses
on the terms of the agreement and whether those terms are ‘so one-sided as to
“shock the conscience.”’ (Kinney v. United HealthCare Services, Inc.
(1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1322, 1330 (citations omitted).) A contractual provision
that is substantively unconscionable may take various forms, but may generally
be described as unfairly one-sided. (Id.) The paramount consideration in
assessing [substantive] conscionability is mutuality. (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff
argues that the DRP is substantively unconscionable because it allows for
arbitration “by TriNet, Tri-Net’s co-employers, TriNet’s employees, officers,
directors, customers, and the employee’s employer of nearly any conceivable
claim that may arise out of the employee’s employment.” (Opp., 13:3-10.)
Plaintiff argues that these terms are unreasonably favorable for Defendant. (Ibid.)

 
Additionally, Plaintiff
argues that the TCA and DRP lack mutuality in its application since TriNet and
its third-party beneficiaries make no mutual promise to arbitrate all disputes
which they may have against Plaintiff and the TCA is unsigned by either TriNet
or Defendant. (Id., 13:21-25.)

 
Lastly, Plaintiff argues that since the
DRP does not provide that Defendant would pay for the arbitrator and
arbitration fees where someone else other than TriNet or a TriNet customer
seeks to enforce the arbitration agreement. (Id., 13:26-28, 14:1-12.) The
DRP states that “[i]n all cases where the law requires it, TriNet
(and, if applicable, any TriNet customer or employee(s) of either TriNet or a
TriNet customer interested in enforcing this DRP for its/their own benefit),
will pay the arbitrator’s and arbitration fees.” (Weiss Decl., Exh. A pp. 7-8.)
Plaintiff contends that although Defendant has now confirmed that it will pay
the costs associated with arbitration in this case, it does not eliminate the
substantive unconscionability found in the DRP as written. (Opp., 14:8-12.)
 
The court finds
that the DRP is substantively unconscionable since its terms are clearly one
sided in favor of Defendant and leaves Plaintiff responsible for arbitration
costs even if she had decided to comply with the DRP in the first place.
Although there is confirmation that Defendant would cover all arbitration
expenses as noted in paragraph 3 and Exhibit 2 of Adam Grable’s declaration,
the court is “…required to determine the
unconscionability of the contract ‘at the time it was made.’” (Sanchez,
supra, 61 Cal.4th at p. 920.) As such, the fee bearing terms of the DRP are
substantively unconscionable.
 
Additionally, the
DRP leaves Plaintiff vulnerable to arbitration if she were to raise any claim
against Defendant, TriNet, or any of TriNet’s beneficiaries which is an
unreasonably large scope of possible defendants that Plaintiff would be
required to arbitrate with without requiring the same from them when claims
against Plaintiff arise. As such, the lack of equal benefits and burdens among
Defendant and Plaintiff found in the DRP renders it substantively
unconscionable. 
 
As such, the
court finds the TCA and DRP substantively unconscionable. 
 
Severability
 
 
“Where an
‘arbitration agreement contains more than one unlawful provision,’ that factor
weighs against severance.” (Penilla v. Westmont Corp. (2016) 3
Cal.App.5th 205, 222, quoting Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at pp.
124–125.) “[U]pholding this type of agreement with multiple unconscionable
terms would create an incentive for an employer to draft a one-sided
arbitration agreement in the hope employees would not challenge the unlawful
provisions, but if they do, the court would simply modify the agreement to
include the bilateral terms the employer should have included in the first
place.” (Mills v. Facility Sols. Grp., Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 1035,
1045.)
 
Due to the
magnitude of substantively unconscionable terms found in the DRP, the court does
not find that severing those terms would be appropriate. Further, choosing to
sever multiple clauses would encourage the drafters of arbitration agreements
to include as many unconscionable clauses as possible, knowing courts might
catch some but not all of them.
 
The court
does not sever any portions of the DRP.
 
The court
finds that Plaintiff has met her burden to show that the purported arbitration
agreement is unconscionable and thus unenforceable.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant
Serendipity Labs, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is DENIED. 