 Case Number:  23STCV01373    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT (DAP  PRODUCTS) DAP Products Inc. filed a  motion for summary judgment, and alternatively summary adjudication, arguing Plaintiffs  Roberto Sotomayor and Patricia Bilgin cannot show Roberto Sotomayor was exposed  to asbestos from Defendant’s products.   A.        Objections Plaintiffs’ Objection  Nos. 1-3:  Denied. Defendant’s Objection Nos.  1-19:  Denied. B.        Summary Judgment A defendant seeking  summary judgment must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the  plaintiff’s case, or . . . demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a  material issue of fact that requires the process of trial.”  (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24  Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a  plaintiff cannot establish an element of a cause of action, a defendant must  make the initial showing “that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot  reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Aguilar  v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)  “The defendant may, but need not, present  evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of  action.  The defendant may also present  evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,  needed evidence – as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive  discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855.)  A plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the  plaintiff has no knowledge of any exposure to the defendant’s products may be  sufficient to shift the burden to the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of  triable issues of fact.  (McGonnell v.  Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.)  The plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he  did not recall ever working with a product manufactured by the defendant may  not be sufficient to shift the burden if the plaintiff is able to prove his  case by another means.  (Weber v. John  Crane, Inc. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “ ‘If plaintiffs respond to comprehensive  interrogatories seeking all known facts with boilerplate answers that restate  their allegations, or simply provide laundry lists of people and/or documents,  the burden of production will almost certainly be shifted to them once  defendants move for summary judgment and properly present plaintiff’s factually  devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id.  at p. 1440.) Defendant submits Plaintiffs’ responses to a  special interrogatory asking for all facts supporting the contention that  Defendant exposed Sotomayor to asbestos.   (Defendant’s Ex. 5 at p. 1.)   Plaintiffs responded that Sotomayor was exposed to home renovation  products from Defendant including DAP caulking and window glaze, which  contained talc that contained asbestos into the 1980s and 1990s.  (Id. at pp. 3-4.)  At his deposition, Sotomayor testified he used  DAP window glaze and caulking.  (Motion  at pp. 2-3.)   Defendant argues Plaintiffs cannot prove Defendant  exposed Sotomayor to asbestos in DAP caulking or window glaze because it is not  liable for any injuries before it came into existence in July 1991, it relied  on vendors of raw materials to confirm the raw materials did not contain  asbestos, and testing showed only a small amount of asbestos in DAP window  glaze, which Defendant’s expert states is not sufficient to cause exposure to  asbestos.  (Motion at pp. 4, 5, 6.)    Assuming Defendant has shifted the burden,  Plaintiffs showed disputed issues of fact.   Defendant does not cite any legal authority absolving Defendant of  responsibility if it relied on others to confirm that raw materials did not  contain asbestos.  And Defendant  acknowledges that DAP window glaze contained some asbestos.  (Motion at p. 11.)  Thus, Defendant’s argument rests on its  expert’s conclusion “that the use of the DAP-branded products by Mr. Sotomayor  in this matter . . . could not have generated any significant amount of  measurable, respirable asbestos fiber above background levels.”  (Id. at p. 12.)  With their opposition, Plaintiffs submitted declarationd  from their experts who concluded that DAP window glaze released asbestos fibers  above background levels, thereby exposing Sotomayor to a sufficient amount of  asbestos to cause his mesothelioma.   (Opposition at pp. 16, 18.) Because Plaintiffs showed a dispute issue about  the amount of asbestos fibers released from DAP window glaze and causation, the  motion for summary judgment is denied.. C.        Summary  Adjudication             1.         Third Cause of Action – Fraudulent  Misrepresentation The third cause of action alleges very vaguely  that all defendants “falsely represented that the products they marketed, used,  sold, supplied, or specified for use were not hazardous; and/or that each  Defendant’s conduct did not create serious or deadly dust hazard.”  (Complaint at p. 59.)  This allegation is utterly deficient.  It does not name Defendant, identify who at  Defendant made the misrepresentation, identify the product that was the subject  of the misrepresentation, or state the date of the misrepresentation.  Defendant served a special interrogatory asking  for all facts supporting the cause of action.   (Defendant’s Ex. 5 at p. 8.)  In  response, Plaintiffs did not identify a single misrepresentation that  Defendants made.  (Id. at pp. 3-6,  8.)  In addition, Sotomayor testified he  had no communications with anyone from Defendant and has no information that  Defendant made any misrepresentation to him.   (Defendant’s Ex. 8 at pp. 453, 454.)   Thus, Defendant shifted the burden. In their opposition, Plaintiffs do not identify any  misrepresentation.  Therefore, they  failed to show a disputed issue.  The  motion for summary adjudication is granted on this cause of action. 2.         Third  Cause of Action – Fraudulent Concealment The third cause of action also alleges that all  defendants “made affirmative statements that were so misleading . . . that they  gave rise to a fraud cause of action.”   (Complaint at p. 60.)  The  complaint is totally vague and does not state who at Defendant made the affirmative  statement or when it was made.  In any  event, as discussed above, Sotomayor testified he had no communications with  Defendant.  In the opposition, Plaintiffs  do not identify any such affirmative, misleading statement. The third cause of action further alleges, all  defendants concealed material facts from Sotomayor, including that the products  contained asbestos.  (Complaint at p.  60.)  Again the complaint is completely  deficient in failing to specify the product at issue and the particular  information about that product that Defendant concealed.   “ ‘[T]he elements of a  cause of action for fraud based on concealment are “ ‘(1) the defendant must  have concealed or suppressed a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been  under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have  intentionally concealed or suppressed the fact with the intent to defraud the  plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been unaware of the fact and would not  have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed or suppressed fact, and  (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the fact, the plaintiff  must have sustained damage.’ ”   [Citation.]’ ”  (Bigler-Engler  v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310-311.)  When a fiduciary duty does not exist, a duty  to disclose arises only “when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material  facts not known to the plaintiff,” or “when the defendant actively conceals a  material fact from the plaintiff,” or “when the defendant makes partial  representations but also suppresses some material facts.”  (Id. at p. 311.)  This type of relationship “ ‘can only come  into being as a result of some sort of transaction between the parties’ ” and  “must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff and the  defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the public at large.”  (Ibid.)   Defendant served a special interrogatory asking  for all facts supporting the cause of action.   (Defendant’s Ex. 5 at p. 8.)  While  Plaintiffs’ response refers to various things Defendant did, or did not do, in  the 1970s and 1980s, the response does not state any facts about how Defendant  concealed information after it came into existence in 1991.  (Id. at pp. 3-6, 8.)  Nor does the response show any transaction or  direct dealings between the parties.  In  addition, Sotomayor testified he has no information that Defendant concealed  anything from him.  (Id., Ex. 8 at  p. 463.)  Defendant shifted the burden. In their opposition, Plaintiffs cite a lot of law  about fraudulent concealment.  But they  do not refer to a single piece of evidence showing that Defendant concealed a  material fact from Defendant.  Plaintiffs  failed to show a disputed issue.   Therefore, the motion for summary adjudication is granted on this cause  of action. 3.         Third  Cause of Action – Conspiracy The third cause of action also alleges that all of  the dozens of defendants across different industries were in a vast conspiracy  to defraud Sotomayor.  (Complaint at p.  61.)  The complaint is silent about how  Defendant participated with all of the other defendants to target Sotomayor. “Conspiracy is not a cause of  action, but a legal doctrine that imposes liability on persons who, although  not actually committing a tort themselves, share with the immediate tortfeasors  a common plan or design in its perpetration.”   (Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7  Cal.4th 503, 510-511.)  “Standing alone,  a conspiracy does no harm and engenders no tort liability.  It must be activated by the commission of an  actual tort.”  (Id. at p.  511.)   Because Plaintiffs failed  to show disputed issues of material fact regarding the underlying fraud claims,  the conspiracy cause of action fails.   Further, neither Plaintiffs’ complaint, nor their discovery responses, nor  their opposition provides any evidence that Defendant had a common plan with the  approximately two dozen other defendants to defraud Plaintiffs.  This cause of action is baseless. Because Plaintiff failed  to show any disputed issue of material fact, the motion for summary  adjudication is granted as to this cause of action.  4.         Punitive  Damages Defendant argues Plaintiffs have no evidence it  acted with malice, oppression, or fraud.   (Motion at p. 15.)  The complaint contains  only vague boilerplate about Defendant’s alleged malice, oppression, and fraud,  failing to plead punitive damages with the required specificity.  (Complaint at p. 6.2) When the motion targets a  request for punitive damages, a higher standard of proof is at play.  “Although the clear and convincing  evidentiary standard is a stringent one, ‘it does not impose on a plaintiff the  obligation to “prove” a case for punitive damages at summary judgment [or  summary adjudication.’  [Citations.]  Even so, ‘where the plaintiff’s ultimate  burden of proof will be by clear and convincing evidence, the higher standard  of proof must be taken into account in ruling on a motion for summary judgment  or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to prevail on a claim for  punitive damages, it will be necessary that the evidence presented meet the  higher evidentiary standard.’   [Citation.]”  (Butte Fire Cases  (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158-1159.)   “Summary judgment or summary adjudication ‘ “ ‘on the issue of punitive  damages is proper’ only ‘when no reasonable jury could find the plaintiff’s  evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or oppression.’ ”  ’.  [Citation.]”  (Id. at p. 1159.)  For a corporate  defendant, the oppression, fraud or malice “must be on the part of an officer,  director, or managing agent of the corporation.”  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)  That requirement can be satisfied “ ‘if the  evidence permits a clear and convincing inference that within the corporate  hierarchy authorized persons acted despicably in “willful and conscious  disregard of the rights or safety of others.” ’ [Citation.]”  (Morgan v. J-M Manufacturing Company, Inc.  (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1078, 1090.)  A  plaintiff also “can satisfy the ‘managing agent’ requirement ‘through evidence  showing the information in the possession of the corporation and the structure  of management decision making that permits an inference that the information in  fact moved upward to a point where corporate policy was formulated.’  [Citation.]”   (Id. at p. 1091.)  “ ‘[I]ntentionally  marketing a defective product knowing that it might cause injury and death is  ‘highly reprehensible.’   [Citation.]”  (Bankhead v.  ArvinMeritor, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 68, 85.)  Punitive damages may be available when a  defendant knows the dangers of asbestos, took action to protect its own  employees from the hazard, knew that its products were likely to pose a danger  to users, and did not warn them.  (Pfeifer  v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.Ap.4th 1270, 1300.)  Such evidence “was sufficient to show malice,  that is, despicable conduct coupled with conscious disregard for the safety of others.”  (Id. at pp. 1300-1301.)  On the other hand, a defendant’s knowledge of  trace amounts of asbestos in talc does not necessarily mean that the defendant  knew that asbestos in talc “would cause a high probability of injury.” (McNeal  v. Whittaker, Clark & Daniels, Inc. (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 853, 873.) Defendant served a special interrogatory asking  for all facts supporting the contention that Defendant is liable for punitive  damages.  (Defendants’ Ex. 5 at p. 12.)  Plaintiffs responded generically that  Defendant knew of the dangers of asbestos in its products and failed to warn  Plaintiffs, referring to information from the 1970s and 1980s.  (Id. at pp. 4-5, 13.)  The response does not reference any  information from the 1990s after Defendant came into existence.  This response is factually-devoid.  Defendant shifted the burden. In opposition, Plaintiffs again cite a lot of law  about punitive damages but do not identify any evidence that Defendant knew  that the talc it used contained asbestos at a level that would cause a high  probability of injury.  Therefore,  Plaintiffs failed to show a disputed issue.   The motion for summary adjudication is granted as to punitive damages. The motion for summary judgment is DENIED.  The motion for summary adjudication is  GRANTED as to the third cause of action and request for punitive damages. The moving party is to give notice.  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE  MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT (RA PRODUCTS) On January 20, 2023,  Plaintiffs Roberto E. Sotomayor and Patricia Bilgin filed this action alleging  Sotomayor developed mesothelioma as a result of exposure to asbestos-containing  products from Defendant RA Products.  On November  22, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment.   A defendant seeking  summary judgment must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the  plaintiff’s case, or . . . demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a  material issue of fact that requires the process of trial.”  (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24  Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a  plaintiff cannot establish an element of a cause of action, a defendant must  make the initial showing “that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot  reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Aguilar  v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)  “The defendant may, but need not, present  evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of  action.  The defendant may also present  evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,  needed evidence – as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive  discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855.)  A plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the  plaintiff has no knowledge of any exposure to the defendant’s products may be  sufficient to shift the burden to the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of  triable issues of fact. (McGonnell v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc. (2002) 98  Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.)  The  plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he did not recall ever working with a  product manufactured by the defendant may not be sufficient to shift the burden  if the plaintiff is able to prove his case by another means.  (Weber v. John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143  Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “ ‘If  plaintiffs respond to comprehensive interrogatories seeking all known facts  with boilerplate answers that restate their allegations, or simply provide  laundry lists of people and/or documents, the burden of production will almost  certainly be shifted to them once defendants move for summary judgment and  properly present plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id. at p. 1440.) Defendant contends  Plaintiffs have no evidence Sotomayor was exposed to asbestos from Defendant’s  products, citing Plaintiffs’ responses to special interrogatories and document  requests.  (Motion at pp. 9-10.)  In response to interrogatories asking for all  facts that Sotomayor was exposed to asbestos from Defendant’s products,  documents supporting that contention, and all witnesses with knowledge of that  exposure, Plaintiffs responded that Sotomayor may have been exposed to  Defendant’s asbestos-containing machining plastic parts from 1959 to 2010;  referred to Plaintiff’s interrogatory responses, depositions and other  non-specific documents; and identified Plaintiff and “Defendant’s managers,  officers, directors, corporate designees and/or agents.”  (Uchida Decl., Ex. C at pp. 1-2, 3-5.)  These responses did not contain evidence  supporting the contentions and are factually-devoid. At his deposition,  Sotomayor testified he never heard of Defendant, had heard of Cadillac Plastic  & Chemical Company, had used some plastic or material from Cadillac Plastic,  would buy little pieces of plastic from them, does not know the specific  products from Defendant that he worked with, and has no knowledge that any of  those products contained asbestos.  (Id.,  Ex. G at pp. 678, 679, 681, 683.) These discovery responses  do not contain any evidence that Sotomayor was exposed to asbestos from  Defendant’s products.  Defendant shifted  the burden. In opposition, Plaintiffs  submit no evidence that Defendant exposed Sotomayor to asbestos.  Instead, Plaintiffs argue the hearing date  needs to be continued because Plaintiff has pending discovery against  Defendant.  This argument fails for many  reasons. First, the preference  trial is in one court day.  There is no time  to continue the hearing.  Second, Plaintiffs failed  to exercise any diligence in pursuing discovery against Defendant.  Defendant served this motion on November 22,  2023, yet Plaintiffs waited until January 19, 2024 to serve the notice of the  deposition of Defendant.  Plaintiffs  should have served the deposition immediately upon receiving the November 22,  2023 motion.  Plaintiffs noticed the  deposition for January 29, 2024, after the January 22, 2024 discovery cutoff  date and after their opposition to this motion was due. Third, Plaintiffs did not  comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h), in  requesting the continuance.  That section  requires a declaration submitted with the opposition stating that facts  essential to justify opposition may exist but cannot be presented.  Plaintiffs’ counsel’s declaration does not  identity the facts essential to their opposition that they cannot present and  does not explain why they cannot present the facts (apart from Plaintiffs’  failure to timely serve discovery).  Also,  Plaintiffs did not explain how Defendant will know what types of plastic  products Sotomayor used.  Only Sotomayor  has that information.   In sum, Plaintiffs cannot  wait two months to serve discovery and then argue this motion must be denied or  continued because they failed to litigate this case diligently.  Plaintiffs sought a preferential trial and  therefore had the obligation to take discovery expeditiously.  Plaintiffs’ lack of diligence is not grounds  to continue a preference trial date or the hearing on this motion.   Because Plaintiffs did  not show a disputed issue, the motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.  Defendant is to file a proposed judgment  within five days. The moving party is to  give notice. [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
(VANDERBILT)

Vanderbilt Minerals, LLC
filed a motion for summary judgment arguing Plaintiffs Roberto Sotomayor and
Patricia Bilgin cannot show Roberto Sotomayor was exposed to products made with
asbestos-containing talc from Defendant. 
Defendant withdrew its motion for summary adjudication.  (Reply at p. 2.)

Plaintiffs’ Objection
Nos. 1-4:  The court did not rely on this
evidence.

A defendant seeking
summary judgment must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the
plaintiff’s case, or . . . demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a
material issue of fact that requires the process of trial.”  (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a
plaintiff cannot establish an element of a cause of action, a defendant must
make the initial showing “that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot
reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)  “The defendant may, but need not, present
evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of
action.  The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence – as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive
discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855.)  A plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the
plaintiff has no knowledge of any exposure to the defendant’s products may be
sufficient to shift the burden to the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of
triable issues of fact.  (McGonnell v.
Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.)  The plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he
did not recall ever working with a product manufactured by the defendant may
not be sufficient to shift the burden if the plaintiff is able to prove his
case by another means.  (Weber v. John
Crane, Inc. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “ ‘If plaintiffs respond to comprehensive
interrogatories seeking all known facts with boilerplate answers that restate
their allegations, or simply provide laundry lists of people and/or documents,
the burden of production will almost certainly be shifted to them once
defendants move for summary judgment and properly present plaintiff’s factually
devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id.
at p. 1440.)

Defendant submits Plaintiffs’ responses to
standard interrogatories asking them to identity the products they contend
exposed Sotomayor to asbestos, including the trade name, product type,
manufacturer, and other information.  (Kazempour
Decl., Ex. A at p. 14.)  Plaintiffs
responded that Sotomayor was exposed to automotive friction products, various
brakes, products while operating a machine shop, Micarta brand material, Norton
and Carborundum grinding wheels, masks, and home renovation products including
Benjamin Moore paint, Henry mastics, La Habra stucco and texturing, Dunn
Edwards paint, Kaiser Gypsum joint compound, Hamilton joint compound, Sinclair
paints, and DAP caulking and window glaze.  
(Id. at pp. 15-16.) 

At his deposition, Sotomayor testified he used
paint from Dunn-Edwards, Sinclair, and Benjamin, as well as DAP 33 window
glazing and a DAP caulk product.  (Kazempour
Decl., Ex. D at pp. 103, 438-439, 446, 350.) 
He used the DAP caulk product from about 1970 until the present.  (Id. at pp. 446.)  He used joint compounds and spackle form
Kaiser Gypsum and Hamilton in the 1970s, but does not remember the brand names.  (Id. at pp. 465, 469, 476-477.)  He did not know of any documents or people
who have information about the products he used.  (Id. at p. 478.)

Defendant submitted various evidence that the
paint products and DAP, Hamilton, and Kaiser Gypsum products either did not use
Defendant’s talc or obtained talc from multiple suppliers.  (Undisputed Material Facts (“UMF”) 10, 13,
15, 16, 17, 24.)

Assuming Defendant shifted the burden, Plaintiffs
showed the existence of disputed issues.  Plaintiffs cited Sotomayor’s testimony that he
used DAP 33 window glazing from the 1970s to the present.  (Stewart Decl., Ex. 1 at pp. 438-439.)  DAP’s witness testified that DAP’s 33 glazing
compound used talc designated with code 87201, which was a code for Defendant’s
Nytal-3X talc and IT-3X talc, from 1987 through 2007.  (Stewart Decl., Ex. 40 at pp. 200, 210-211,
232, 272, 287, 297.)  

In its reply, Defendant argues the DAP witness did
not testify that only Defendant provided talc under code 87201, citing pages 200-201
and 231-232 of the transcript.  (Reply at
pp. 5-6.)  At those pages, the DAP
witness testified that DAP 33 glazing used talc with the code 87201, it is
possible that one code corresponded to three different vendors, and there were
other vendors of IT-3X talc.  (Lodmer
Decl., Ex. I at pp. 200-201, 232.)

However, Defendant’s testimony does not mean that
Plaintiffs will not be able to prove at trial that most of the talc in DAP 33
glazing came from Defendant, even if some came from other vendors.  In Izell v. Union Carbide Corporation
(2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 962, defendant Kelly-Moore had multiple suppliers of
asbestos, of which Union Carbide’s asbestos made up about 8%.  (Id. at p. 971.)  There was no evidence what percentage of the
asbestos supplied to the Kelly-Moore facility where the plaintiff worked came
from Union Carbide.  (Ibid.)  Thus it was speculation to conclude the
plaintiff was exposed to Union Carbide asbestos.  (Ibid.)  In sum, “ ‘[t]he mere “possibility” of
exposure’ is insufficient to establish causation.”  (Id. at p. 969.)  

Based on the evidence presented, Plaintiffs may be
able to prove that, unlike the situation in Izell, DAP used Defendant’s
Nytal-3X talc and IT-3X talc in most DAP 33 glazing products, and used only a
small amount of talc from other vendors. 
For example, Plaintiffs attached Exhibit 5 to the Toollabee deposition,
which suggests that Defendant supplied the majority of Nytal-3X talc and IT-3X
talc.  (Stewart Decl., Ex. 40 at Ex. 5.)  Thus, Plaintiffs have shown a disputed issue
about whether Defendant’s talc was in most or all of the DAP 33 glazing
products that Sotomayor used.

The motion for summary judgment is DENIED.

The moving party is to give notice.

 