  Case Number:  22STCV05549    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
            Defendant
Honeywell International Inc. filed a motion for summary judgment of Susan
Aglipay and Ronald Aglipay, Jr.’s claims that Ronald Aglipay was exposed to
asbestos from Defendant’s products.
A defendant seeking
summary judgment must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the
plaintiff’s case, or . . . demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a
material issue of fact that requires the process of trial.”  (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a
plaintiff cannot establish an element of a cause of action, a defendant must
make the initial showing “that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot
reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)  “The defendant may, but need not, present
evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of
action.  The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence – as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive
discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855.)  A plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the
plaintiff has no knowledge of any exposure to the defendant’s products may be
sufficient to shift the burden to the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of
triable issues of fact. (McGonnell v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc. (2002) 98
Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.)  The
plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he did not recall ever working with a
product manufactured by the defendant may not be sufficient to shift the burden
if the plaintiff is able to prove his case by another means.  (Weber v. John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “ ‘If
plaintiffs respond to comprehensive interrogatories seeking all known facts
with boilerplate answers that restate their allegations, or simply provide
laundry lists of people and/or documents, the burden of production will almost
certainly be shifted to them once defendants move for summary judgment and
properly present plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id. at p. 1440.)
            Defendant
served an interrogatory asking for all facts supporting the contention that
Defendant was exposed to asbestos from Bendix products and the identities of
persons with information supporting Plaintiffs’ claims.  (Defendant’s Ex. 2 at pp. 2, 3.)  Plaintiffs responded that Ronald Aglipay was
exposed to asbestos from Bendix brakes from the 1970s to 2000s.  (Defendant’s Ex. 3 at pp. 1-2.)  The responses also gave a lot of details,
along with citations to evidence, about Defendant’s manufacturing and sales of
asbestos-containing brakes.  (See,
e.g., id. at pp. 3-4.)  Plaintiffs
listed themselves and various people associated with Defendant as having
information.  (Id. at p. 24.)
            In
their depositions, Plaintiff Susan Aglipay testified she is unfamiliar with the
brand Bendix and does not know if Ronald Aglipay ever worked with Bendix
products.  (Undisputed Material Fact
(“UMF”) 9, 10.)  Plaintiff Ronald
Aglipay, Jr. testified he has no information about the brand name of the
automotive components Rondald Aglipay worked with.  (UMF 13.)
            Assuming
this is sufficient to shift the burden, Plaintiffs submitted evidence of
disputed issues.  Terry Delgado signed a
declaration stating he knew Ronald Aglipay, he remembers Ronald Aglipay doing
brake work on cars, and Ronald Aglipay purchased Bendix brakes and used them
regularly from 1975 to 1990.  (Delgado
Decl., ¶¶ 2, 7-9.)  This is evidence that
Ronald Aglipay used Bendix brakes.
            Defendant
argues the declaration is improper because it is not a deposition.  (Reply at p. 2.)  However, Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subdivision (b)(2) allows the opposition to be supported by
declarations.  Defendant did not show
that statements in the declaration directly conflict with Delgado’s deposition
testimony. 
            Defendant
also argues the declaration is not credible and lacks foundation because it
contains only a few short references to Bendix brakes.  (Reply at p. 2.)  The court cannot judge credibility on a
motion for summary judgment.  Delgado
established sufficient foundation for his testimony – he was friends with
Aglipay and saw him working on cars.
            Defendant
argues Plaintiffs should have disclosed Delgado in their interrogatory
responses.  (Reply at p. 2.)  Whether or not Plaintiffs knew about Delgado
at the time they responded, they disclosed him sufficiently before this hearing
for his deposition to take place. 
Defendants did not ask for a continuance to take additional discovery of
Delgado.
            Defendant
argues the Delgado declaration is not evidence of exposure.  (Reply at p. 3.)  That is not correct.  The declaration states Ronald Aglipay “picked
up brake and clutch brands like . . . Bendix brakes.  He would use these brand regularly from 1975
to 1990.”  (Delgado Decl., ¶ 9.)  It states the replacement brakes Ronald
Aglipay bought had the brand names, including Bendix, on the boxes.  (Id., ¶ 13.)  That is evidence of exposure to Bendix
brakes.
            Because
Plaintiff showed disputed issues, the motion is DENIED.
            The moving
party is to give notice.
 
 