  Case Number:  21STCV17649    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County
 of Los Angeles
 



 
FIRE
  GUARD CORPORATION dba BUILTRIGHT ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION, 
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
 
STANFORD
  AND 12TH STREET, LP, et al., 
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case No.:  21STCV17649
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed: 05/11/21
Cross-Complaint
  Filed: 07/07/21
Trial
  Date: N/A
 
 



 
Hearing date:              June 12, 2024
Moving Party:             Defendants and Cross-Complainants Shu
C. Kou and Shan C. Kou   
Responding
Party:      Cross-Defendant Mayer
Separzadeh
 
Motion for Trial Preference 
 
The court has
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply.  
The motion is granted.  
Background
            This
is an action that arises from the alleged failure to pay monies owed pursuant
to a contract for renovating a property located at 901 East 12th Street, Los
Angeles, CA 90021 (the “Property”). On May 11, 2021, Plaintiff Fire Guard
Corporation dba Builtright Engineering and Construction (“Plaintiff”) filed a
Complaint against Defendants Stanford and 12th Street, LP, Shu C. Kou, Shan C.
Kou, and DOES 1 to 100, inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) breach of
contract; (2) open book account; (3) account stated; (4) quantum meruit; and
(5) foreclosure of mechanic’s lien. 
            On
July 7, 2021, Defendants Shu C. Kou and Shan C. Kou (collectively, the “Kou
Defendants”) filed an Answer to the Complaint. 
            Also,
on July 7, 2021, the Kou Defendants filed a Cross-Complaint against
Cross-Defendants Stanford and 12th Street, LP; Stanford Mart, LP; Mayer
Separzadeh; Shahin S. Zackary; Said Bral (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”);
and ROES 1 through 25, inclusive, alleging causes of action for: (1) implied
contractual indemnity; (2) expressed contractual indemnity; (3) breach of
lease; (4) breach of guaranty; and (5) account stated. 
            On
March 7, 2022, Cross-Defendant Mayer Separzadeh (“Separzadeh”) filed an Answer
to the Cross-Complaint filed by the Kou Defendants. 
            Also,
on March 7, 2022, Cross-Defendant Stanford Mart, LP filed an Answer to the
Cross-Complaint filed by the Kou Defendants. Also, on such date,
Cross-Defendants Standford and 12th Street, LP and Shahin S. Zackary filed an
Answer to the Cross-Complaint filed by the Kou Defendants.
            On
April 29, 2024, the Court deemed the instant action as the lead case and
related this action to Mayer Separzadeh, et al. v. Shu Chin
Kou, et al., LASC Case No. 23STCV15591 (the “Separzadeh Action”). (04/29/24
Minute Order.) 
            On
May 8, 2024, the Court entered an order, pursuant to stipulation, that related
and consolidated the instant action with Kou Family Irrevocable Grantor
Trust v. Stanford Mart L.P., et al., LASC Case No.
23STCV10843 (the “UD Action”) and related and consolidated the instant action
with the Separzadeh Action. The instant action was deemed the lead case, and
the UD Action was stayed pursuant to the Court’s April 29, 2024 order.
(05/08/24 Order.) The Court stayed the UD Action pending a final judgment in
the consolidated trial of the instant action and the Separzadeh Action.
(05/08/24 Order.) 
            Also,
on May 8, 2024, the Kou Defendants filed and served the instant Motion for
Trial Preference on the grounds that Shu C. Kou and Shan C. Kou are soon
turning 92 and 90 years of age, respectively, and each continue to experience
serious health complications that call into question the likelihood of survival
to the date trial would otherwise be set in the matters.  
            On
May 30, 2024, Cross-Defendant Separzadeh filed an opposition to the motion for
trial preference, to which the Kou Defendants filed a reply brief on June 5,
2024.      
Legal Standard 
            “On petition of any party over 70, section 36, subdivision (a),
provides that the granting of calendar preference is mandatory in some
circumstances.” (Fox v. Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529,
533.)  A court must grant a trial
preference under Code Civ. Proc. § 36(a) where the following two factors are
present: (1) the party has a substantial interest in the action as a whole; and
(2) the health of the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent
prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.  (Ibid.)  Where a motion for trial preference is
granted, the clerk shall set the case for trial not more than 120 days from
that date.  (Koch-Ash v. Superior
Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 689, 694.) 
The purpose of Code Civ. Proc. § 36 is “to avoid an irrevocable loss of
a qualifying plaintiff’s substantive right to a trial during his or her
lifetime and to potential recovery of damages that would not survive
plaintiff’s pretrial death.”  (Ibid.)  A motion for trial preference does not
require a doctor’s declaration and “may be supported by nothing more than an
attorney’s declaration based upon the information and belief as to the medical
diagnosis and prognosis of any party.” (Fox v. Superior Court, supra,
21 Cal.App.5th 529, 534, citation omitted [explaining that an attorney
declaration under CCP § 36.5 can consist entirely of hearsay and conclusions.].)
“An affidavit submitted in support of a motion for preference under subdivision
(a) of Section 36 may be signed by the attorney for the party seeking
preference based upon information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and
prognosis of any party. The affidavit is not admissible for any purpose other
than a motion for preference under subdivision (a) of Section 36.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 36.5.) 
            “The
application of section 36, subdivision (a), does not violate the power of trial
courts to regulate the order of their business. Mere inconvenience to the court
or to other litigants is irrelevant.” (Swaithes v. Superior Court (1989)
212 Cal.App.3d 1082, 1085.) “In its discretion, the court may also grant a
motion for preference that is accompanied by clear and convincing medical
documentation that concludes that one of the parties suffers from an illness or
condition raising substantial medical doubt of survival of that party beyond
six months, and that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be
served by granting this preference.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (d).)
“Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the court may in its discretion
grant a motion for preference that is supported by a showing that satisfies the
court that the interests of justice will be served by granting this
preference.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (e).) 
Evidentiary Objections
            The
Court OVERRULES the evidentiary objections of Cross-Defendant Separzadeh
numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, and 6 to the declaration of Miles L. Prince in support
of the motion for trial preference. 
Discussion
            Evidence
in Support of the Motion
Counsel for the
Kou Defendants, Miles L. Prince (“Prince”), provides a declaration in support
of the motion. Mr. Prince declares the following: Shu C. Kou is 91 years old
and Shan C. Kou is 89 years old. (Prince Decl., ¶ 2.) Based on his
conversations with his client and their family members, both are experiencing
dire health challenges that seriously threaten their potential to survive long
enough to participate in trial in this matter. (Prince Decl., ¶ 4.) Shan C. Kou
has now been hospitalized for an extended period of time for a variety of
health concerns and, most recently, she was hospitalized at the USC Norris
Center for Cancer for approximately a week in April and May 2024. (Prince
Decl., ¶ 4.) During this most recent hospitalization, one doctor informed her
son that her blood work was such that she could have died at any moment.
(Prince Decl., ¶ 4.) While hospitalized, she required multiple blood
transfusions and was discharged with the emergency instruction for immediate
pacemaker installation and surgery. (Prince Decl., ¶ 4.) Also, Mrs. Kou has
only approximately twenty percent kidney function, which requires continual
care and maintenance. (Prince Decl., ¶ 4.) 
            Shu
C. Kou suffers form a rare immunodeficiency syndrome and IgG4-related disease,
including sclerosing cholangitis and chronic thrombocytopenic purpura, which is
an autoimmune condition whereby the body attacks its own platelets and prevents
the ability to clot and fight infection. (Prince Decl., ¶ 5.) These conditions
require Mr. Kou to receive chemotherapy treatment every two to three months,
which makes him continually susceptible to infection, which often can become
life-threatening. (Prince Decl., ¶ 5.) Recently, Mr. Kou was hospitalized for
three weeks at Cedars-Sinai, at which time it was unclear if he would survive.
(Prince Decl., ¶ 5.) Both Shan C. Kou and Shu C. Kou rely on the care of a
full-time in-house caregiver and a coordinated team of multi-disciplinary
physicians stretching between USC, UCLA, and Cedars-Sinai. (Prince Decl., ¶ 6.)
Counsel states that he believes trying the entire consolidated matter within
the next 120 days is essential to ensure that Mr. and Mrs. Kou survive long
enough to prepare for trial. (Prince Decl., ¶ 7.) 
            Evidence
in Opposition to the Motion
            In
opposition to the motion, counsel for Cross-Defendant Separzadeh provides a
declaration, the crux of which is setting forth grievances at to the Kou
Defendants’ refusal to provide any discovery or deposition testimony despite
court orders and agreements between the parties. (Kerendian Decl., ¶¶ 13-21,
25-29.) Cross-Defendant Separzadeh argues that the Kou Defendants have created
extreme prejudice by their intentional, dilatory, and prejudicial conduct
pertaining to discovery. (Kerendian Decl., ¶ 21.)  
 
            Appropriateness
of Granting a Trial Preference 
            The
Court finds that the Kou Defendants have a substantial interest in this action
as a whole and that the Kou Defendants have established that their health is
such to avoid prejudicing their interest in this action. 
            The
Court acknowledges the argument of Defendant Separzadeh that “when ruling on a
motion for preference in trial setting, the trial court must consider the total
picture, including the court’s calendar, dilatory conduct by the [moving
party], prejudice to the defendant in the event of an accelerated trial date,
and the likelihood of an eventual mandatory dismissal if the request for a
preferential trial date is denied.” (Mitchell v. Frank R. Howard Memorial
Hospital (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1396, 1404.) However, the Court reminds
Defendant Separzadeh that the “[f]ailure to complete discovery or other
pretrial matters does not affect the absolute substantive right to trial
preference for those litigants who qualify for preference under subdivision (a)
of section 36.” (Swaithes v. Superior Court, supra, 212
Cal.App.3d 1082, 1085, emphasis added.)
            Thus,
any discovery issues or delays are irrelevant to the Court’s analysis as to
whether the Kou Defendants are entitled to a trial preference. Here, the Kou
Defendants have met the requirements of CCP § 36(a). As such, the Kou
Defendants have an absolute substantive right to a trial preference thereunder.

            As
such, the motion for trial preference is GRANTED. 
It is so
ordered.
 
Dated:
June 12, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court