 Case Number:  24STCV15400    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Carlos Aaron Medrano’s Motions to Compel Responses
to Form Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories 
            Plaintiff Carlos
Aaron Medrano moves to compel defendant Shailah Lela Collins to respond to form
interrogatories – general, set one, and special interrogatories, set one.  When the responding party fails to serve a timely
response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order
compelling responses.  (CCP § 2030.290(b).)  Failing to serve a
timely response also results in waiving any objections.  (Id., subd. (a).)   
            Plaintiff
is entitled to orders compelling defendant to respond to his form and special
interrogatories.  Plaintiff served the
interrogatories by mail on defendant on July 19, 2024.  (Whittemore Decls., ¶ 5, Ex. A.)  Responses were due by August 23, 2024.  Defendant had not served any responses as of September
1, when plaintiff served and filed these motions.  (Id., ¶ 8.)  Defendant did not serve a timely response to form interrogatories –
general, set one, or special interrogatories, set one.  Defendant therefore waived any objections to
them.
Sanctions
In each motion, plaintiff moves for $960 in
sanctions against defendant and her counsel of record.  Failing to respond to an authorized method of
discovery is a misuse of the discovery process subject to monetary
sanctions.  (CCP § 2023.010(d).)  Defendant did not respond to authorized
discovery.  The court finds defendant did
not act with substantial justification. 
Sanctions are just under the circumstances.  
 Plaintiff did
not, however, reasonably incur $960 in expenses for each motion.  That amount includes 0.5
hours at $450 per hour to draft a reply brief and 0.5 hours to prepare for and
attend the hearing.  (Whittemore Decls.,
¶ 9.)  Defendant did not file oppositions.  Plaintiff did not file reply briefs.  The court therefore will reduce the sanctions
by $225 for each motion.  Moreover, both
motions are being heard at the same time. 
The court will therefore award sanctions of 0.25 hours ($112.50) on each
motion for time spent preparing for and attending the hearing.  Plaintiff reasonably incurred $562.50 in
attorney fees plus the $60 filing fee on each motion. 
Disposition
            Plaintiff Carlos Aaron Medrano’s motion
to compel defendant Shailah Lela Collins to respond to form interrogatories – general,
set one, is granted.  Defendant 
Shailah
Lela Collins is ordered to
serve verified responses without objections to form interrogatories – general,
set one, within 30 days.  Defendant Collins
and her counsel of record, the Law Offices of Johnson, Alvarez, Zakarian,
Ferraris & Cadena are ordered to pay plaintiff $622.50 in sanctions within
30 days.  
            Plaintiff Carlos Aaron Medrano’s
motion to compel defendant Shailah Lela Collins to respond to special
interrogatories, set one, is granted.  Defendant
Shailah Lela Collins is ordered
to serve verified responses without objections to special interrogatories, set
one, within 30 days.  Defendant Collins
and her counsel of record, the Law Offices of Johnson, Alvarez, Zakarian,
Ferraris & Cadena are ordered to pay plaintiff $622.50 in sanctions
within 30 days.         
Defendant Collins and her counsel of record, the Law
Offices of Johnson, Alvarez, Zakarian, Ferraris & Cadena, are jointly and severally liable for all sanctions.