  Case Number:  23STCV14071    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Tammy Woloski’s Motion for
Relief from Entry of Default and to Quash Service of Summons
Specially
appearing defendant Tammy Woloski moves for relief from entry of default and to
quash service of the summons on her.  Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (d) permits the court to “set aside
any void judgment or order.”  “
‘[C]ompliance with the statutory procedures for service of process is essential
to establish personal jurisdiction. 
[Citation.]  Thus, a default
judgment entered against a defendant who was not served with a summons in the
manner prescribed by statute is void.’ ” 
(Ellard v. Conway (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 540, 544.)  “Under section 473, subdivision (d), the
court may set aside a default judgment which is valid on its face, but void, as
a matter of law, due to improper service.” 
(Ibid.)  Without valid
service of summons, any default or default judgment against Woloski is void.
Plaintiffs
Min-Hsiung Chien, Nancy M. Chien, Stan Chien, and Allen Chien do not meet their
burden of showing valid service of process on Woloski.  “[O]nce a defendant files a motion to quash
the burden is on the plaintiff to prove by a preponderance of the evidence the
validity of the service and the court’s jurisdiction over the defendant.”  (Bolkiah v. Superior Court (1999)
74 Cal.App.4th 984, 991.)
A.
Doe Amendment 
Woloski argues service of process was invalid
because the papers served did not include the Doe amendment substituting her
for Doe 12.  “[A] summons shall be
directed to the defendant” and “shall contain … [t]he names of the parties to
the action.”  (CCP § 412.20(a) &
(a)(2).)  For a “person sued by a fictitious name,” the summons must indicate that
the defendant “was being sued by a fictitious name.”  (Carol Gilbert, Inc. v. Haller (2009)
179 Cal.App.4th 852, 866.)  “Due process
requires notice of ‘the duty to defend.’ ” 
(Ibid.)
Plaintiffs’
proof of substituted service on Woloski states the declarant served copies of
several documents, including the “Doe Amendment – ATJ Perfect Investment” but
not the Doe amendment substituting Tammy Woloski for Doe 12.  (Woloski Decl., Ex. A.)  Plaintiffs did not address this basis for the
motion.  They submitted no evidence that the
papers served included any document notifying Woloski that she was named as a
Doe defendant or otherwise had a duty to defend.  
B. Service Address
Woloski also
contends substituted service was invalid because it was not done at her “dwelling
house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing address.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b).)  Before using substituted service on an
individual, the plaintiff must make “attempts at personal service at a proper
place and with correct pleadings.”  (Kremerman
v. White (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 358, 373.) 
Plaintiffs do not show they attempted to serve her at a proper place.
The proof of substituted service states Woloski was
served at “185 W. Palm Dr., Arcadia, CA 91007.” 
(Woloski Decl., Ex. A.)  Woloski
testifies, “I do not live at 185 W. Palm Dr., Arcadia, CA 91007, nor have I
ever lived there, not have I ever worked there. 
I have lived at my current residence in Sierra Madre with my spouse for
at least ten years.  We live with no one
else.  No one in my household can be
described as” the unnamed person described on the proof of service.  (Woloski Decl., ¶ 7.)  She further testifies, “My place of business
is in El Monte, since 2018 with my present employer.  [¶] I have never used 185 W. Palm Dr.,
Arcadia CA 91007 as my mailing address, or otherwise received any mail
there.”  (Id., ¶¶ 7-8.)
Plaintiffs attempt to rebut Woloski’s testimony on
the basis that she “has submitted multiple documents to the City of Arcadia
stating that the property is her residence.” 
(Opp., p. 2.)  Plaintiffs rely on
three exhibits.  (Zuetel Decl., Exs.
1-3.)  
Exhibit 1 to the declaration of Bryan Zuetel is a
construction permit signed by “Paul Woloski” on June 1, 2015.  (Zuetel Decl., Ex. 1.)  It states the subject property’s “owner” is
Tammy Woloski and that her “mailing address” is 185 W Palm Dr., Arcadia CA
91007.”  (Id., p. 1.)  Assuming this document would otherwise show
that address was Woloski’s “usual mailing address”, it is from over nine years
ago.  It is too old to meet plaintiffs’
burden of proof that, at the time of service in 2024, that property was
Woloski’s usual mailing address.
 Exhibit 2 is
the “special inspectors’ time sheet & report” by “Elite Special Inspections
Inc.”  (Zuetel Decl., Ex. 2.)  It states, “Job Identification: Wolosky [sic]
Residence.”  (Ibid.)  It is signed by “Certified Special Inspector
… Randall A. Martinez” (ibid.), not by Woloski.  Similarly, exhibit 3 is a “site plan”
submitted by “John J. Yankosky” of “[illegible] planning.”  (Zuetel Decl., Ex. 3.)  It states, “Residence for Tammy Woloski [:]
185 W Palm Dr Arcadia CA.”  (Ibid.)  These documents do not adequately rebut
Woloski’s testimony.  Woloski submitted a
sworn declaration stating she never lived at that address.  These documents were submitted by people
hired to perform services at or involving the property.  They are hearsay and, even if admissible, are
not reliable evidence showing the property was Tammy Woloski’s “residence.”
Defendant
Tammy Woloski’s motion to set aside default and to quash service of summons is granted.  The court hereby sets aside the default
of defendant Tammy Woloski.  The court
hereby quashes service of summons on defendant Tammy Woloski.