 Case Number:  22AHCV00600    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      January 18, 2024                                             TRIAL
DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         ROBERT BARON v.
AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC., a California corporation, and DOES 1 through
10, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 22AHCV00600
 
            
 
MOTION
TO BIFURCATE

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant American Honda Motor Co. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
Robert Baron
 
SERVICE:                              Filed December 15, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed January 4, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   No reply filed.  
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendant moves to bifurcate the
trial of Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises out of Plaintiff Robert
Baron’s (“Plaintiff”) lemon law claim for a new 2018 Honda Accord, VIN
1HGCV1F48JA249058 (“Subject Vehicle”), that Plaintiff purchased on October 26,
2018. Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant American Honda Motors Co., Inc.
(“Defendant”) was aware of and concealed defects in the safety systems in their
vehicle, such as the Honda Sensing system and the Collision Mitigation Braking
System (“CMBS”). 
 
            Plaintiff filed this complaint on
August 23, 2022, alleging three causes of action for (1) violation of the
Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty, (2) violation of the Song-Beverly
Act – Breach of Implied Warranty, and (3) Fraudulent Inducement – Concealment.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant’s motion to bifurcate is GRANTED, in part. Evidence of
Defendant’s profit and financial condition is ordered excluded until the appropriate
time.
 
DISCUSSION
 
             Defendant moves to bifurcate the
trial of Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages.
 
“The court shall, on application
of any defendant, preclude the admission of evidence of that defendant's
profits or financial condition until after the trier of fact returns a verdict
for plaintiff awarding actual damages and finds that a defendant is guilty of
malice, oppression, or fraud in accordance with Section
3294.
Evidence of profit and financial condition shall be admissible only as to the
defendant or defendants found to be liable to the plaintiff and to be guilty of
malice, oppression, or fraud. Evidence of profit and financial condition shall
be presented to the same trier of fact that found for the plaintiff and found
one or more defendants guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud.” (Civil Code § 3295, subd. (d).)
 
            Pursuant
to Civil Code section 3295, subdivision (d), Defendant is entitled to bifurcate
the issue of its financial condition. “As an evidentiary restriction, section 3295(d) requires a court, upon application of
any defendant, to bifurcate a trial so that the trier of fact is
not presented with evidence of the defendant's wealth and profits until
after the issues of liability, compensatory damages, and malice, oppression, or
fraud have been resolved against the defendant. Bifurcation minimizes potential
prejudice by preventing jurors from learning of a defendant's ‘deep
pockets’ before they determine these threshold issues.” (Torres v.
Automobile Club of So. California (1997) 15 Cal.4th 771, 777-78.) 
 
            Defendant requests that the entire
issue of punitive damages be bifurcated, including requesting this court to bar
arguments that “Defendant ‘deserves to be punished’ or should be ‘made an
example of’ ”. (Motion at p.4:1-2.) However, Defendant’s request is broader
than the protections provided by statute. The excluded evidence pursuant to
Civil Code section 3295, subdivision (d), is “evidence of the defendant’s
wealth and profits”. Thus, Defendant’s motion to bifurcate is granted, in part.
Evidence of Defendant’s profit and financial condition is ordered excluded
until the appropriate time. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant’s motion to bifurcate is GRANTED, in part. Evidence of
Defendant’s profit and financial condition is ordered excluded until the
appropriate time.
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   January 18,
2024                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
