  Case Number:  21GDCV01004    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
18, 2024                                             TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         MIDWICK COLLECTION
HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATION, a California non-profit mutual benefit corporation, v.
ASHLEY IU, an individual; WALTER IU, an individual, and DOES 1through 10,
inclusive. 
 
CROSS:                      ASHLEY IU, an
individual; WALTER IU, an individual, v. MIDWICK COLLECTION HOMEOWNERS
ASSOCIATION, a California non-profit mutual benefit corporation; JUNG HOON HAN,
an individual; DANIEL BRACKINS, an individual. 
 
CASE NO.:                 21GDCV01004
 
            
 
MOTION
TO QUASH SUBPOENAS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Cross-Defendants Midwick Collection
Homeowners’ Association, Jung Hoon Han, and Daniel Brackins
(“Cross-Defendants”) 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Cross-Complainants
Ashley Iu and Walter Iu (“Cross-Complainants”)
 
SERVICE:                              Filed January 3, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed January 4, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Cross-Defendants move to quash the
subpoena for the attendance of Naofumi Kudo (“Kudo”) and Joy (Jiayi) Yang (“Yang”)
and production of documents.  
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Midwick
Collection Homeowners Association’s (“HOA” or “Plaintiff”) claim that Defendant
Ashley Iu (“Ashley”) and Walter Iu (“Walter”) (“Defendants” or
“Cross-Complainants”) made improper modifications to Defendants’ property
located at 2238 Zanuck Place, Alhambra, California 91803 (“Subject Property”).
Plaintiff alleges that the Subject Property is subject to recorded covenants,
conditions, and restrictions (“CC&R”). Plaintiff alleges
that Defendants were aware of the need to submit proper applications and
receive approval for any modifications but engaged in the modifications without
approval.  
 
            Plaintiff filed this complaint on
August 3, 2021, alleging two causes of action for (1) breach of covenant and
injunctive relief and (2) declaratory relief. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Cross-Defendants’
motion to quash the subpoenas for Kudo and Yang is GRANTED.
 
            Cross-Defendants’
request for sanction is denied.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            Code of Civil Procedure
section 1987.1, subdivision (a), provides: “If a subpoena requires the
attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.” 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Cross-Defendants
move to quash the subpoenas for the attendance of Kudo and Yang at the January
23, 2024, trial. As a preliminary note, the subpoenas seek the attendance of
Kudo and Yang on January 23, 2023.
 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a), provides, in part, that “the service of a
subpoena is made by delivering a copy, or a ticket containing its substance, to
the witness personally, giving or offering to the witness at the same time, if
demanded by him or her, the fees to which he or she is entitled for travel to
and from the place designated, and one day's attendance there.” Code of Civil
Procedure section 2020.220, subdivision (b), provides, in part, that “[a]ny
person may serve the subpoena by personal delivery of a copy. . . .”
 
            The
subpoenas attached to Cross-Defendants motion do not have any proof of service
establishing compliance with the serve requirements of the statute. In
opposition, Cross-Complainant provides that the parties were served
electronically. However, that service does not comply with the applicable
statutes.
 
            “The
personal service requirement for subpoenas found in section 1987, subdivision (a) perpetuates a
long-standing rule of state procedure, one that predates even the codification
of state law. [Citation.] A strict personal service requirement for civil trial
subpoenas has been justified on the ground that disobedience of a ‘duly served’
subpoena represents a form of contempt (§ 1209, subd. (a)(10)),
and the potentially severe consequences associated with a contempt finding make
it especially important to ensure that a prospective witness knows that he or
she has been subpoenaed to testify [citation]. Furthermore, because personal
delivery is the form of service most likely to provide notice of a demand to
appear at trial, requiring personal service of a trial subpoena minimizes the
likelihood that a trial will be disrupted by a subpoenaed person's failure to
appear.” (Meza v. Portfolio Recovery Associates,
LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 844, 855.) 
 
            Cross-Complainants
fail to provide that they complied with the statutory requirements when they
attempted to serve Kudo and Yang with the subpoenas. Thus, the service of the subpoenas
was improper, and the subpoenas ordered quashed.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Cross-Defendants’
motion to quash the subpoenas for Kudo and Yang is GRANTED.
 
            Cross-Defendants’
request for sanction is denied.
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   January 18,
2024                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court