 Case Number:  23AHCV02693    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      January 18, 2024                                 TRIAL DATE: February 6, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         GOLDEN
ABACUS GROUP, LLC, a California limited liability company, v. OMAR PENEGOS
LOZADA, an individual and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV02693
 
            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Golden Abacus Group, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      No
response filed. 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed December 27, 2023
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Plaintiff moves for summary
judgment as to its claim for possession of the Subject Property pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 1161b, subdivision (b)(3).
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Golden
Abacus Group, LLC’s (“Plaintiff”) unlawful detainer claim for property located
at 605 East Calaveras Street, Altadena, California (“Subject Property”).
Plaintiff filed this complaint on November 15, 2023. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment is
GRANTED.
 
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Plaintiff’s request for judicial
notice for Exhibits 1-5 is granted pursuant to Evidence Code section 452,
subdivision (c).
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“The purpose of the law of summary
judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.) “A party
may move for summary judgement in an action or proceeding if it is contented
that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or
proceeding.” (Code of Civil Procedure section 473c subd. (a)(1).) “The motion for
summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code of Civil Procedures section
473c subd. (c).) 
 
A three-step analysis is employed in
ruling on motions for summary judgment. First, the court identifies the issues
framed by the pleadings. Next, the court determines, when the moving party is
the defendant, whether it has produced evidence showing one or more of the
elements of the cause of action cannot be established or there is a complete
defense to that cause of action. If the defendant does so, the burden shifts to
the plaintiff to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact as to
that cause of action or defense. (Kline v. Turner (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th
1369, 1373.) The court must “view the evidence in the light most
favorable to the opposing party and accept all inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom.”  (Ibid.; see also Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal. 4th 384, 389 [Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”].)  
 
“A defendant moving for summary
judgment must show that one or more elements of the plaintiff's cause of action
cannot be established or that there is a complete defense. The defendant can
satisfy its burden by presenting evidence that negates an element of the cause
of action or evidence that the plaintiff does not possess and cannot
reasonably expect to obtain evidence needed to establish an essential element.
(Veera v. Banana Republic, LLC, (2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 907, 914.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff
moves for summary judgment to recover possession of the Subject Property.
 
            “Section 1161a(b) authorizes
a summary proceeding to remove the possessor of real property in specified
circumstances. It is structured to enumerate five ‘cases’ in which its
substantive provision applies. Specifically, section 1161a(b) opens
with the phrase ‘[i]n any of the following cases,’ then it sets forth its
substantive provision (authorizing an unlawful detainer action to remove ‘a
person who holds over and continues in possession of ... real property after a
three-day written notice to quit the property has been served’), and then it
enumerates five separate situations in which its substantive provision comes
into play.” (Dr. Leevil, LLC v. Westlake Health Care Center (2018) 6
Cal.5th 474, 479.)
 
            Plaintiff
asserts that Section 1161a, subdivision (b)(3), applies to the present case. 
 
“In any of the following cases, a
person who holds over and continues in possession of . . . real property after
a three-day written notice to quit the property has been served upon the person
. . . may be removed therefrom as prescribed in this chapter: [¶] (3) Where the property
has been sold in accordance with Section 2924 of the Civil Code, under a power
of sale contained in a deed of trust executed by such person, or a person under
whom such person claims, and the title under the sale has been duly perfected.”
(Code Civ. Proc § 1161a, subd. (b)(3).) 
 
Thus,
under section 1161a, subdivision (b)(3), Plaintiff must demonstrate sale of the
Subject Property in accordance with section 2924, (2) under a power of sale
contained in a deed of trust, and (3) title has been duly perfected.
 
Plaintiff
provides that declaration of Yubin Tao, who provides he attended a Trustee’s
sale for the Subject Property on September 7, 2023. (Tao Decl. ¶ 2.) He provides he was the only bidder and paid using two
cashier’s checks. (Id. ¶¶ 3-4.) On October 24, 2023, a Trustee’s Deed
Upon Sale was recorded. (RJN Exhibit 1.) The deed contains the following
language: “All requirements of law regarding the mailing of copies of Notices
for which Requests had been recorded, and otherwise, and regarding public,
recordation, and posting of copies of a Notice of Trustee’s Sale, have been
complied with. (Ibid.)
 
            “A recital in the
deed executed pursuant to the power of sale of compliance with all requirements
of law regarding the mailing of copies of notices or the publication of a copy
of the notice of default or the personal delivery of the copy of the notice of
default or the posting of copies of the notice of sale or the publication of a
copy thereof shall constitute prima facie evidence of compliance with these
requirements and conclusive evidence thereof in favor of bona fide purchasers
and encumbrancers for value and without notice.” (Civil Code § 2924,
subd. (c).)
 
            Plaintiff had demonstrated the sale
was in accordance with Civil Code section 2924. Additionally on January 20,
2022, a Deed of Trust was recorded for the Subject Property. Paragraph 34 on
Page 18 of the Deed of Trust provides, in part: “If an Event of Default occurs,
Lender . . . may declare all sums secured by this Security Instrument
immediately due and payable by delivering to Trustee a written affidavit or
declaration of default and demand for sale, executed by Lender and reciting
facts demonstrating such default by Borrower, together with a written notice of
default and electron to sell the Mortgage Property.” Plaintiff had demonstrated
that the power of sale was contained in the Deed of Trust.
 
            “Title is duly
perfected when all steps have been taken to make it perfect, i.e., to convey to
the purchaser that which he has purchased, valid and good beyond all reasonable
doubt[,] [citation], which includes good record [citation], but is not limited to good record title,
as between the parties to the transaction.” (Kessler v. Bridge (1958)
161 Cal.App.2d Supp 837, 841.) 
 
            Plaintiff demonstrates that Tao was
the purchaser of the Subject Property at a Trustee’s Sale. (Tao Decl. ¶¶
2-4.) Further, a Trustee Deed was recorded on October 24, 2023. (Id. ¶
6; RJN Exhibit 1.) Additionally, Plaintiff served a three-day notice to quiet
on November 1, 2023. (Exhibit 6.)
            Plaintiff
had demonstrated it is entitled to possession of the property pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 1161b, subdivision (b)(3).
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment is
GRANTED.
 
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   January 18,
2024                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court