  Case Number:  22STCV06085    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Cartwright Termite & Pest Control, Inc.,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV06085




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Nissan Tepper, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: February 13, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint
Moving Party: Defendant Shmuel Erde
Responding Party: None
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE A
CROSS-COMPLAINT IS GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers.
No opposition has been received. 
 
“A party who fails to plead a cause of
action. . . whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake,
neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his
pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during
the course of the action.  The court,
after notice to the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just
to the parties, leave to amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to
assert such cause if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good
faith.  This subdivision shall be
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.”  (CCP § 426.50.)  
 
Defendant Erde moves for leave to file
a cross-complaint against former Defendant Balboa LLC, Plaintiff Cartwright,
and Dolores Golden. Defendant asserts the cross-complaint is necessary because
the cross-defendants have not responded to discovery. Defendant also points to
the Court’s rulings on Defendant’s motion to join Balboa and motion for
reconsideration in which the Court noted that Defendant would have to seek
leave to file a cross-complaint to allege claims against Balboa. 
 
The Court will allow leave to file a
cross-complaint. Defendant has provided a copy of the proposed cross-complaint
and the Court has received no opposition to the motion.
 
Defendant’s motion is GRANTED.
 
 
 
 
 