 Case Number:  23STCV07604    Hearing Date:   February 9, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles




 
Shana Smith,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV07604




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
  Authority, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date:
February 13, 2024
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to
Compel Further Responses to Discovery
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Shana Smith
Responding
Party: Defendant LACMTA
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES IS GRANTED.
 
DEFENDANT TO
SERVE FURTHER RESPONSE TO THE SUBJECT DISCOVERY WITHIN 20 DAYS OF NOTICE OF
RULING.
 
PLAINTIFF’S
REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS IS GRANTED IN THE AMOUNT OF $2,010.00.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties
wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition and reply.
 
On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may
move for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems
that an objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general. (CCP
2030.300(a)(3).) The responding party has the burden of justifying the
objections to the form interrogatories (“FIs”) and special interrogatories
(“SIs”).  (Coy v. Sup.Ct. (1962)
58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.) 
 
Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to FIs and SIs from
Defendant LACMTA. The requests seek information relating to (1) grievances, complaints or discipline either communicated
to Plaintiff or about Plaintiff; (2) sexual harassment claims made by other
individuals; (3) the identities of Defendant’s officers; (4) Defendant’s
investigation of Plaintiff’s sexual harassment complaint against her supervisor;
and (5) Defendant’s affirmative defenses and denials. 
 
In opposition, Defendant
asserts the motion is untimely and the requests seek information protected by
the official information privilege, deliberative process privilege, and
attorney client privilege. Defendant also argues the requests are overbroad and
infringe on the privacy rights of third parties. 
 
The motion is not untimely.
This Court requires IDCs before a motion to compel further may be filed,
tolling the normal compel further deadline. Plaintiff filed this motion within
30 days of the IDC as ordered by the Court. 
 
Plaintiff alleges she was
sexually harassed by her supervisor while working for Defendant. The above
categories of documents are relevant to that claim. Defendant has failed to
show how the official information privilege and deliberative process privilege
applies to this employment action. If there are documents protected by the
attorney-client privilege, Defendant must provide a privilege log. Further
responses are necessary.
 
Plaintiff’s motion is
GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff requests $6,560.00
in sanctions for three motions to compel further. The Court will allow 1.5 hours
to prepare the motion and 1.5 hours to reply and attend the hearing at $650.00
per hour plus the $60.00 filing fee for a total of $2,010.00.


 