  Case Number:  18STPB01558    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST
DISTRICT - BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULING ON MOTIONS
IN LIMINE  
 
Estate of
Ricardo Holguin, Case No. 18STPB01558 (related to Constructive Trust of Ricardo
Holguin, Case No. 19STPB09883)
Trial Date:
January 13, 2025, Time: 8:30 a.m. 
 
 
          On January 3,
2025, Jess Holguin (“Executor”) filed an identical motion in limine in these cases
set for trial to exclude expert testimony of Michelle van de Pol, a real estate
appraiser, as to market rent at the subject property. The expert’s report is
attached to the motion. 
 
          Executor argues the
expert report should be excluded because (a) it assumes that the property was
properly managed (when it was not -- where Executor was not the owner such that
he would have been able to evict certain existing tenants), (b) the expert did
not inspect the property to be able to have sufficient foundation to give the
opinion, (c) the report is based on an assumption that the property was adequately
maintained and (d) there was no legal duty on Executor’s part to rent the
property during much of the time in question when he was not then executor.  
 
          On January 9,
2025, Martin Holguin, Marco Holguin, Alysha Fax, Vanessa McGowan and Richard
Holguin (collectively “Objectors”) filed a combined opposition to the motions. Objectors
argue that the motion in limine is in effect an improper motion to summarily
adjudicate legal issues outside the scope of what the expert would testify
concerning, i.e., concerning the duties of Executor. In addition, they argue
that the bases for the motion go to the weight to be given to the expert’s
report as opposed to its admissibility. 
 
          The Court concurs
with Objectors that the motion seeks a ruling related to legal issues concerning
Executor’s duties that will be the subject of trial that do not go to the
admissibility of the expert report. See also LASC Rule 3.57(b)
concerning civil cases equally applicable here. If there was no duty to market
the property for certain periods, for sake of argument, the Court can still
consider her report as to those times when there was a duty or for parts of the
property that were not rented already. That the expert may not have inspected
the property and or not know what condition it may have been in would go to the
weight to be given to her opinion as opposed to her reliability for purposes of
exclusion. The report appears to have sufficient foundation at this point where
it references properties she indicates are comparable and the rents charged at
those properties. There also appears no prejudice were the Court to hear the
testimony to justify granting the motion. 
 
 
          For these reasons,
the Court denies the motions.  