  Case Number:  23STCV06368    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Wednesday, January 10, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV06368
CASE NAME:                        Angel Gallego-Botello, et al v. Architectural Surfaces, Inc.,
et al
MOVING
PARTY:                 Special Appearing Defendant Cosentino Group, S.A.
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiffs Angel Gallegos-Botello
and Araceli Mejia
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion to Quash Service of
Summons
OPPOSITION:                        27 December 2023
REPLY:                                  3
January 2023
 
TENTATIVE:
                        Special Appearing Defendant’s Motion to Quash is granted.
The Plaintiffs’ request to order Cosentino Group, S.A. to comply with
jurisdictional discovery is denied. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On March 22, 2023,
Angel Gallegos-Botello and Araceli Mejia (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a
Complaint against various Defendants alleging six causes of action: (1)
negligence; (2) strict liability – warning defect; (3) strict liability -
design defect; (4) fraudulent concealment; (5) breach of implied warranties;
and (6) loss of consortium. This is a toxic torts action wherein Plaintiff
Angel Gallegos-Botello alleges he developed silicosis and other injuries due to
his work with stone products manufactured, distributed, and/or supplied by
various named Defendants.  
 
On
November 16, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) alleging the same causes of action in the original Complaint. 
 
October 12, 2023,
Specially Appearing Defendant Cosentino Group, S.A. (“Cosentino
Group”) – a Spanish company headquartered in Spain -- filed this Motion to
Quash Service of Summons. Plaintiffs oppose the Motion. 
 
 
MOTION
TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS
 
I.               
Legal Standard
 
CCP § 418.10(a) states: “A defendant, on or before the last
day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may
for good cause allow, may serve or file a motion…[t]o quash service of summons
on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.”¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
A court of this state may exercise jurisdiction on any basis
not inconsistent with the California or United States Constitutions. (CCP §
410.10.) When a nonresident defendant challenges personal jurisdiction the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to demonstrate by a preponderance of the
evidence that all necessary jurisdictional criteria are met. (Jewish Defense
Org. v. Superior Court¿(1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1045, 1054-55; see also
Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 556, 568 [“When a motion
to quash is properly brought, the burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff
to establish the facts of jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.”].)
This burden must be met by competent evidence in affidavits and authenticated
documentary evidence. (Jewish Defense Org., at p. 1055.) 
 
II.            
Request for Judicial Notice
 
The court may take judicial notice of “official acts of the
legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the United States and of
any state of the United States,” “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or
(2) any court of record of the United States or of any state of the United
States,” and “[f]acts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to
dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to
sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452(c), (d), and
(h).) “Taking judicial notice of a document is not the same as
accepting the truth of its contents or accepting a particular interpretation of
its meaning.” (Joslin v. H.A.S. Ins. Brokerage (1986) 184
Cal.App.3d 369, 374.)
 
Plaintiffs requests judicial notice of the following in
opposition to this Motion: 
 
1)    
Exhibit
A: Convention on the Service Abroad of Judicial and Extrajudicial Documents In
Civil Or Commercial Matters (the “Hague Convention”). 
 
2)    
Exhibit
B: Canada - Central Authority & practical information. 
 
3)    
Exhibit
C: United States - Central Authority & practical information. 
 
4)    
Exhibit
D: Pages 7 and 8 of the Practical Handbook on the Operation of the Service
Convention published by the Hague Conference on Private International Law
Permanent Bureau in 2016 regarding “Place of service as determining factor.”
 
5)    
Exhibit
E: Page XL of the Glossary of the Practical Handbook on the Operation of the
Service Convention published by the Hague Conference on Private International
Law Permanent Bureau in 2016 defining State of destination as “the State where
service is, or will be, effected.”
 
Plaintiffs request for judicial notice is granted as to
Exhibits A and C and denied as to Exhibits D and E as the latter exhibits are
subject to dispute and the proper subject of judicial notice. (Evid. Code, §
451(f).) “ ‘By making an order establishing the law of
the case, it seems that the facts are no longer in dispute and can therefore be
considered true as set forth in an order, findings of fact, or conclusions of law.’
[Citation.] Such facts would not be the proper subject of judicial notice.” (Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz &
McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 882.) 
 
Plaintiff also requests judicial notice of Exhibit B
entitled “Canada - Central Authority & practical information” and Exhibit A
entitled “Rule 4-3 (Personal Service), subdivision (2) of the Supreme Court
Civil Rules of British Columbia Reg 168/2009.” The request is denied as the
documents are not relevant to the resolution of this matter. 
 
III.          
Evidentiary Objections
 
The court declines to rule on
Plaintiffs’ objections to the Declaration of Jorge Cuervo as they are not
relevant to the resolution of this Motion as the court does not reach the issue
as to whether Cosentino Group has minimum contacts with California. 
 
Similarly, the court
also declines to rule on Cosentino Group’s objections to the Declaration of
Raphael Metzger since the issue of personal jurisdiction due to lack of minimum
contacts is not reached in this Motion. 
 
IV.           
Discussion
 
Plaintiffs assert that on
September 13, 2023, a copy of the Summons and Second Amended Complaint was
personally served on Eduardo Cosentino, the Vice President of Global Corporate
Sales of the Cosentino Group, in British Columbia, Canada (Metzger Decl.
¶ 18.) Cosentino Group now moves to quash service of summons on the basis that there
is a lack of personal jurisdiction due to improper service and lack of minimum
contacts with California. 
Cosentino Group is organized
under the laws of Spain and is headquartered in Spain. (Cuervo Vela Decl. ¶ 4.)
Cosentino Group asserts that service was improper because the Plaintiffs failed
to comply with the Hague Convention (the “Convention”). Plaintiffs maintain
that service was proper in Canada, pursuant to the laws of California and the
Convention. 
 
“When a defendant
challenges the court’s personal jurisdiction on the ground of improper service
of process ‘the burden is on the plaintiff to prove the existence of
jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an effective
service.’”¿(Summers v. McClanahan (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403, 413.) A
proof of service containing a declaration from a registered process server
invokes a rebuttable presumption affecting the burden of producing evidence, of
the facts stated in the return. (Evid. Code, § 647; see American Express
Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011) 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390.) The party seeking
to defeat service of process must present sufficient evidence to show that the
service did not take place as stated.¿ (See Palm Property Investments, LLC
v. Yadegar (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 1419, 1428.) Merely denying service took
place without more is insufficient to overcome the presumption. (Id. at
1428.)
 
Here, the burden is on Plaintiffs
to show that service was proper. Plaintiffs fail to meet this burden, as
outlined below.
 
A.             
Personal Service on an Agent of
Foreign Corporation 
 
Plaintiffs argue that the
Convention does not apply where an officer of a foreign corporation is
personally served with the summons in compliance with the laws of the forum state
(California) and the place of service (British Columbia, Canada.) Plaintiffs
fail to cite case law in support of this proposition. Plaintiffs also fail to
cite case law or point to language in the Convention that supports the
proposition that the Hague Convention permits service on a corporation if the
service complies with the laws of the forum state (country where the action is
filed) and the state of destination (the country where service is effected),
even if the state of destination is not the foreign defendants country of
residence or citizenship. 
 
Because Cosentino Group is a foreign
corporation, service of process must comply with the provisions of the
Convention. 
 
CCP § 413.10 states in relevant part: 
 
Except as otherwise
provided by statute, a summons shall be served on a person:
 
[ . . .
] 
 
(c) Outside the
United States, as provided in this chapter or as directed by the court in which
the action is pending, or, if the court before or after service finds that the
service is reasonably calculated to give actual notice, as prescribed by the
law of the place where the person is served or as directed by the foreign
authority in response to a letter rogatory. These rules are subject to the
provisions of the Convention on the “Service Abroad of Judicial and
Extrajudicial Documents” in Civil or Commercial Matters (Hague Service
Convention).
 
The United States Supreme Court held that “[b]y virtue of
the Supremacy Clause, U.S. Const., Art. VI, the Convention pre-empts
inconsistent methods of service prescribed by state law in all cases to which
it applies.” (Volkswagenwerk Aktiengesellschaft v. Schlunk (1988) 486
U.S. 694, 699.) “[C]ompliance with the Convention is mandatory in all cases to
which it applies.” (Id. at p. 705.) “Failure to comply with the
Hague Service Convention procedures voids the service even though it was made
in compliance with California law. [Citation.] This is true even in cases where
the defendant had actual notice of the lawsuit. [Citations.]” (Kott v.
Superior Court (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1126, 1136.) 
 
Plaintiffs argue that the Convention does not apply
because Cosentino Group is not a
natural person but a corporation. However, as Cosentino Group points out, under
the California Code of Civ. Proc., corporations are considered persons under
the code. (CCP § 17(b)(6) [“ ‘Person’ includes a corporation as well as a
natural person”].) Therefore, under California law, Plaintiffs were required to
comply with the Convention.  
 
“‘The primary means by which service is accomplished
under the [Hague Service] Convention is through a receiving country's ‘Central
Authority.’ The Convention affirmatively requires each member country to
designate a Central Authority to receive documents from another member country.
[Citation.] The receiving country can impose certain requirements with respect
to those documents (for example, that they be translated into the language of
that country.) [Citation.] If the documents comply with applicable requirements,
the [Hague Service] Convention affirmatively requires the Central Authority to
effect service in its country.’ [Citation.]” (Inversiones Papaluchi S.A.S.
v. Superior Court (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 1055, 106 (Inversiones Papaluchi).)

 
Here, Plaintiffs admit that they did not attempt to serve
the Cosentino Group through
Spain’s Central Authority. Plaintiffs fail to cite legal authority to support the
proposition that a foreign defendant can be served in compliance with the
provisions of the Convention, so long as the service complies with the laws of both
the forum country and the place of service (“state of destination”), even if
the place of service is not the country of residence or citizenship for the
foreign defendant. The handbook Plaintiffs rely on in support of the above proposition
is not admissible due to hearsay and the fact that only portions of the
handbook are cited. Furthermore, the handbook acknowledges that “[i]n
principle, the determining factor” on service “is the place of service and not
the domicile or the residence of the residence of the defendant.” (Plaintiffs’
RJN Ex. D.) However, the handbook also notes that “[s]ome courts in the United
States nevertheless retain the residence of the addressee or even his
nationality (“citizenship”) as the condition for application of the
Convention[.]” (Plaintiffs’ RJN Ex. D at fn. 27 [italics and bold original].)
 
Plaintiffs
fail to show that under the Convention, service on a foreign defendant is
permitted in any foreign country that is a signatory of the convention because
said countries can be designated as the “state of destination” under the
Convention. More importantly, Plaintiffs admit that service on Cosentino Group was
not made through Canada’s Central Authority, as required by the Convention, but
via a Canadian process server. 
 
The court
finds that service on Cosentino Group via personal service on Eduardo Cosentino
in Canada through a Canadian process server did not comply with the provision
of article 10(b) of the Convention.  
 
B.             
Service by Mail failed to Comply with the Provisions of the
Convention
 
“The Hague Service Convention authorizes
other methods of sending judicial documents to foreign countries. As pertinent
here, article 10, subdivision (a) provides the Hague Service Convention ‘shall
not interfere with ... the freedom to send judicial documents, by postal
channels, directly to persons abroad,’ ‘[p]rovided the State of destination
does not object.’ ” (Inversiones Papaluchi, supra, 20 Cal.App.5th at p.  1065.) Spain did not object to article 10(a)
of the Convention. (See https://www.hcch.net/en/states/authorities/details3/?aid=273
[as of Jan. 8, 2024].)
 
 “‘Any
affirmative authorization of service by international mail, and any
requirements as to how that service is to be accomplished, must come from the
law of the forum in which the suit is filed.’ [Citation.]” (Inversiones Papaluchi, at p. 1066 citing Brockmeyer
v. May (9th Cir. 2004) 383 F.3d 798, 803–804.) Therefore, for service by mail via Federal
Express to be valid, it must comply with “California Law.” (Inversiones
Papaluchi, supra, 20
Cal.App.5th at p. 1066.) 
 
“Under California law, there are two
applicable sections of the Code of Civil Procedure that involve service by
mail. Section 415.30 requires that mailing include a notice and acknowledgment
of receipt to be signed by the defendant and a return envelope, postage
prepaid, addressed to the sender.” (Inversiones Papaluchi, supra, 20 Cal.App.5th at p.  1066.) 
“Similarly, section 415.40 provides, ‘A
summons may be served on a person outside this state ... by sending a copy of
the summons and of the complaint to the person to be served by first-class
mail, postage prepaid, requiring a return receipt.’ ” (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiffs assert that they complied with
the rules for service by mail because they sent copies of the summons and
complaint via Federal Express, with tracking number that showed the summons and
complaint were delivered to Cosentino
Group’s corporate headquarters in Cantoria, Spain, and was signed for by S.
Uministros. (Metzger Decl. Ex. 7.) However, Plaintiffs fail to show that “a
written acknowledgment of receipt” was obtained or that it was signed by a
person authorized to receive service on behalf of Cosentino Group. (CCP §
415.30.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
USPS return receipt shows that the summons was addressed solely to “Cosentino
Group” and not to an individual person, let alone one authorized to receive
service on behalf of Cosentino Group. (Metzger Decl. Ex. 8.) Moreover, for
service to be valid under CCP § 416.10, “a plaintiff must mail the summons to a person to be
served on behalf of the corporation, i.e., to one of the individuals specified
in section 416.10.” (Dill v. Berquist Construction Co.
(1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1436.) Plaintiffs fail to show that they mailed the
summons to an individual specified in section 416.10. Cosentino
Group also asserts that “S. Uministros” is “Suministros,” a location “where
supplies and occasionally Federal Express deliveries are received.  No one working at this location is authorized
to accept service of process on behalf of the Cosentino Group.”  (Vela Supp. Decl. ¶ 5.) 
 
Plaintiffs
have failed to show that service on Cosentino Group was valid under article 10(a)
of the Convention because service of summons did not comply with the statutory
requirement for service of process in California. 
 
Based
on the above, Motion to Quash Service of Summons is granted. 
 
Since the court found that the
service of summons was improperly served, the court declines to consider
whether Cosentino Group has sufficient minimum contacts with California to
establish personal jurisdiction.  
 
C.             
Request to Order Jurisdictional
Discovery 
 
Plaintiffs ask the court to order Cosentino Group to answer
jurisdictional discovery. “A trial court has the discretion to
continue the hearing on a motion to quash service of summons for lack of
personal jurisdiction to allow the plaintiff to conduct discovery on
jurisdictional issues.” (HealthMarkets, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1173; see also Beckman v. Thompson (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 481, 487 [“The
granting of a continuance for [jurisdictional] discovery lies in the discretion
of the trial court, whose
ruling will not be disturbed in the absence of manifest abuse”].)


Plaintiffs have failed to cite, and the
court is unaware of, case law that would permit this court to order Cosentino
Group to comply with jurisdictional discovery requests when service upon the
Defendant has been quashed due to improper service. 
 
Accordingly,
the court denies the Plaintiffs’ request to order Cosentino Group to comply
with the Plaintiffs’ jurisdictional discovery requests. 
 
Conclusion
 
Special Appearing Defendant’s
Motion to Quash is granted. The Plaintiffs’ request to order Cosentino Group,
S.A. to comply with jurisdictional discovery is denied.
Plaintiffs to give notice. 