  Case Number:  21STCV38985    Hearing Date:   March 4, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS IN LIMINE, MOTION TO BIFURCATE Defendants’ MIL No. 1 Defendant Honeywell moves  to exclude all references to foreign bans on the importation of chrysotile  asbestos.  Plaintiffs did not show any  defendant was aware of a foreign ban on chrysotile asbestos or the reasons why  the foreign governments banned it.   Allowing that evidence will consume an undue amount of trial time  exploring the bases for and legislative history of the foreign bans.  The evidence would have little probative  value because foreign bans did not apply to workplaces in the United States and  would be confusing to the jury.  The  motion is granted. Defendants’ MIL No. 2 Defendant Honeywell seeks  to preclude a 1986 EPA document entitled “Guidance for Preventing Asbestos  Disease Among Auto Mechanics” as irrelevant, hearsay, unscientific, and unduly  prejudicial.  If Defendant contends it  did not know about the hazards of asbestos by 1986, the document could be  relevant to Defendant’s notice of the dangers of asbestos, a non-hearsay  use.  Also, the contents of the document  may be admissible at trial via an expert if the expert establishes it is  general background information of the type relied upon by experts in the  field.  That the document was based on  unscientific sources can be the subject of cross-examination and goes to the  weight to be given the document and whether an expert can establish it is the  type of information relied upon by experts.   The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 3 Defendant Honeywell moves  to exclude reference to a 1989 proposed EPA ban that never went into effect  because it was invalidated by the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals as not  supported by sufficient evidence.  This  evidence may go to notice or knowledge.   Defendant can cross-examine the witness about the fact that the proposed  ban was never effective and was invalidated by the court for lack of evidence.  The motion is denied without prejudice to  objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 4 Honeywell moves to  exclude an article by Laura S. Welch.   Pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO, this motion is deemed made and granted  as to Welch’s amicus brief but not her article.   Defendant did not show good cause to depart from that order.  Therefore, the motion is denied as to the  article without prejudice to a contemporaneous objection at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 5 Honeywell moves to  exclude evidence relating to the Friction Materials Standard Institute as  unauthenticated, irrelevant, and hearsay.   The motion does not identify the specific documents or even state  whether the documents appear on the parties’ joint witness list.  This motion is too vague.  The court cannot predict whether Plaintiffs  will be able to authenticate and establish the admissibility of unidentified  documents at trial.  Defendant should  object if and when Plaintiffs seek to use specific FMSI documents at  trial.  For example, an expert might rely  on a FMSI document, and such a document might be admissible if the expert  establishes that it is the type of document relied upon as accurate by experts  in the field.  The motion is denied  without prejudice to objections at trial.  Defendants’ MIL No. 6 Honeywell moves to  exclude a letter and a memo from E.A. Martin because they cannot be  authenticated, are hearsay, are not relevant, and are more prejudicial than  probative.  Defendant states the  documents are unsigned and there is no evidence about who wrote or received  them.  The court cannot determine at this  point that no witness will be able to authenticate the documents.  If Plaintiffs seek to introduce  unauthenticated documents at trial, Defendant should object then. The documents could be  relevant to notice or knowledge of the dangers of asbestos.  If Plaintiffs seek to use the documents to  show notice, the documents may not be hearsay if they are not offered for the  truth of the matter asserted (assuming they can be authenticated).  The last paragraph of the  letter is more prejudicial than probative.   If Plaintiffs authenticate the letter and establish its relevance and  non-hearsay use at trial, the last paragraph of the letter is to be redacted  before the letter is admitted.   Plaintiffs did not establish the author of the letter was a managing  agent or authorized to speak for the company.    The motion is granted in  part and denied in part without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 7 Honeywell seeks to  exclude testimony and videos about William Longo and Richard Hatfield’s work  simulations because the simulations are not similar to Plaintiff’s  exposure.  Defendant argues the  simulations took place in small sealed chambers, used improper testing methods  such as TEM analysis not recognized by OSHA, and will be confusing to the jury  because the conditions are so different.   Whether TEM is an appropriate method “goes to the weight and not the  admissibility of the opinions.”  (Strobel  v. Johnson & Johnson (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 796, 811-812.)  At trial, Defendants can cross-examine the  experts about the similarities and differences of Plaintiff’s exposure to a  small, sealed chamber and argue the jury should give the videos no weight  because of the different conditions.  The  motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 8 Honeywell moves to  exclude evidence of working conditions at its facilities as irrelevant and  unduly prejudicial because Plaintiffs were never employed by Honeywell.  This motion is too vague.  If “working conditions” refers to something  like wage and hour violations, that would be irrelevant.  However, if it refers to something like  workers being exposed to asbestos, the evidence could be relevant.  For example, the evidence of asbestos  exposure at Defendant’s facilities could be relevant to knowledge or notice.             The  motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 9 Honeywell seeks to  exclude evidence of the publication “Doubt is Their Product.”  Pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO, this motion  is deemed made and granted unless and until proper foundation is established  with the trial court.  Plaintiffs did not  show good cause to depart from this order.   Therefore, the motion is granted unless and until proper foundation is  established with the trial court. Defendants’ MIL No. 10 Honeywell moves to  exclude evidence of workers’ compensation actions.  If notice of the dangers of asbestos or  asbestos in the products at issue is contested, some evidence of these claims  may be relevant and for a non-hearsay purpose.   However, the details of the claims would be unduly prejudicial,  time-consuming, and confusing to the jury.   It is for the trial judge to determine how much is too much.  To the extent a party seeks to introduce the  amounts of any settlement, judgment, verdict, or award in another litigation,  the motion is deemed granted and made pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO.  The motion is granted in part and denied in  part subject to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 11 Honeywell moves to  exclude evidence of Bendix’s conduct and knowledge after the last exposure as  not relevant.  This motion is too vague,  and such conduct could be relevant.  For  example, pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO, a motion to exclude evidence of a  post-sale duty to warn and failure to conduct a recall or post-sale warning  campaign is deemed made and denied so long as there is an operative negligence  cause of action.  Defendant did not show  good cause to depart from this order.   The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 12 Honeywell seeks to  exclude evidence of statements of and proceedings of OSHA, the EPA, and any  other governmental agency, as well as violations of regulations.  This is too vague.  It would exclude all evidence of OSHA  regulations, which could be relevant to notice.   The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 13 Honeywell moves to  exclude arguments that any exposure is a “substantial factor.”  Defendant does not identify the specific  expert opinion to be excluded.   Therefore, the motion is too vague.   Also, under the July 8, 2022 CMO, motions to exclude expert opinion  about the term “substantial factor” are deemed made and denied without  prejudice to objections at trial.   Defendant did not show good cause to depart from this order.  The motion is denied without prejudice to  objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL Nos. 14-19             No  motions were filed. Defendants’ MIL No. 20             Defendant  Paramount moves to exclude the Bair materials.   Except for a few documents, Defendant does not identify the specific exhibits  or evidence to be excluded.  The identified  documents are a February 9, 1988 memo, a January 29, 1988 memo, March 3, 1988  notes, and a March 8, 1988 memo.               Defendant  argues these documents are not relevant and prejudicial because it did not destroy  any documents, asbestos-related documents were preserved, and the memos  post-date the 1965-1970 exposure period.   Plaintiff argues the February 9, 1988 memo discusses actions Defendant took  before the exposure period showing Defendant knew about the dangers of  asbestos.  Thus, the documents could be  relevant to knowledge.             Defendant  contends the memos are hearsay and not party admissions because the drafters of  the documents were not authorized to speak for Defendant.  Plaintiffs argue the drafters of the February  9, 1988 memo were an attorney supervising asbestos litigation and a manger of  Defendant’s industrial hygiene department.   Under Evidence Code section 1222, a  statement is not inadmissible hearsay if it was “made by a person authorized by  the party to make a statement or statements for him concerning the subject  matter of the statement” and there is “evidence sufficient to sustain a finding  of such authority.”  The Law Revision  Commission Comments state, “The authority of the declarant to make the  statement need not be express; it may be implied.  It is to be determined in each case under the  substantive law of agency.”  The  authorized admission exception applies when an agent makes a statement “within  the scope of his authority.”  (Bowser v. Ford Motor Co.(2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 587, 612.)  Plaintiffs  may be able to establish at trial that the authors of the documents were authorized  by Defendant to make statements on the subjects expressed in the documents. Defendant contends the documents are  privileged because they were written by an in-house attorney.  However, Plaintiffs submitted evidence that  at least the February 9, 1988 memo has been in public court files for  years.  Because it is a  publicly-available document, it cannot be privileged.  If Plaintiffs try to use the other documents  at trial, and Defendant believes they are privileged, Defendant should object  at that time. The motion is denied without prejudice to  objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL Nos. 21-38             No  motions were filed. Defendants’ MIL No. 39             Defendant  Industrial Holdings moves to exclude evidence of any organization of which it  was not a member.  Pursuant to the July  8, 2022 CMO, this motion is deemed made and denied.  Defendant did not show good cause to depart from  that order.  The motion is denied without  prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 40 Defendant Morse Tec moves  to exclude evidence of a proposed 1971 Illinois ban that never went into effect  as hearsay and irrelevant.  The evidence  may go to notice or knowledge.  Defendant  can then cross-examine the witness about the fact that the proposed ban was  never effective.  The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at  trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 41             See  No. 3 above. Defendants’ MIL No. 42             No  motion was filed. Defendants’ MIL No. 43 Defendant Amcord, Inc.  moves to exclude photographs from a deposition as unauthenticated, irrelevant,  and hearsay.  If Plaintiffs attempt to  use the photographs at trial without first authenticating them, Defendants should  object at that time.  Photographs are not  statements made by a person; they are made by a camera.  One of the photos shows bags with a label  that seems to say “Riverside Gun Plastic.”   Whether that photograph contains hearsay depends on how Plaintiffs plan  to use the photograph at trial.  For  example, if Plaintiffs use the photograph to show that the particular bags  depicted in the photo actually contained Riverside Gun Plastic, the hearsay  objection may be meritorious.  But there  could be non-hearsay uses of that photograph.   The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 44 Amcord moves to exclude  evidence of working conditions at Amcord’s facility as irrelevant and unduly  prejudicial because Plaintiffs were never employed at the facility.  This motion is too vague.  If “working conditions” refers to something  like wage and hour violations, that would be irrelevant.  However, if it refers to something like  workers being exposed to asbestos, the evidence could be relevant.  For example, the evidence of asbestos  exposure at the facilities could be relevant to knowledge or notice.             The  motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 45 Amcord moves to exclude  any evidence of lobbying activities.  The  motion is too vague and does not identify specific evidence to be  excluded.  Therefore, the motion is  denied without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 46 Defendant Amcord, Inc.  moves to exclude a March 12, 1974 memorandum about blue asbestos in gun plastic  as irrelevant, prejudicial, and misleading.   Defendant contends the reference to “blue asbestos” in the memo is to a  brand name, not to a specific type of asbestos.   If the memo is otherwise admissible (e.g., it is authenticated), then  Defendant can have a witness explain that “blue asbestos” is a brand name and  can cross-examine any witness who contends that “blue asbestos” refers to  something other than a brand name.  The  jury will be able to understand the difference between a brand name and a  specific type of asbestos, and the jury can decide who is correct.  The motion is denied without prejudice to  objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL Re Post Sale Duty    Defendants General  Electric and Paramount move to exclude of a post-sale duty to warn.  Pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO, a motion to  exclude evidence of a post-sale duty to warn and failure to conduct a recall or  post-sale warning campaign is deemed made and denied so long as there is an  operative negligence cause of action.   Defendants did not show good cause to depart from this order.  The motion is denied without prejudice to  objections at trial. Defendant’s MIL To Exclude Plaintiff’s  Testimony             Defendants  General Electric and Paramount move to exclude Plaintiff Donna Frizzell from  testifying because she has dementia and cannot be deposed.  Plaintiffs say they agree she is unable to  testify.  The parties should be able to  work out a stipulation on this motion. Defendant’s MIL Re 1989 Proposed Ban             See  No. 3 above. Defendant’s MIL Re No Safe Dose Defendant Paramount moves  to exclude arguments that there is no safe level of asbestos and every exposure  contributes to a cumulative dose as unsupported by science and contrary to the  law.  This motion is too vague as  Defendant does not identify any specific expert testimony to be excluded.     In addition, the motion  would exclude arguments about the standard for proving causation and what  “substantial factor” means.  Under the  July 8, 2022 CMO, motions to exclude expert opinion about the term “substantial  factor” are deemed made and denied without prejudice to objections at  trial.  Defendant did not show good cause  to depart from this order. Defendant also argues  OSHA and EPA reports are hearsay.  This  motion is too vague as Defendant did not identify any specific report to be  excluded.  If Plaintiffs ask to admit the  reports for the truth of the matter asserted in them, Defendant can object at  that time.  However, an expert may rely  on the reports even if they are hearsay.   The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendant’s MIL Re Post 1983 Exposure             Defendant  Industrial Holdings moves to exclude claims that it is responsible abrasive  wheel sold after 1983, claims about abrasive wheels sold by Defendant without  evidence, claims about the meaning of “carborundum,” and other claims.  This motion is too vague.  It does not identify specific exhibits or  evidence to be excluded.  Also, the  question whether Defendant is liable for claims after 1983 cannot be decided on  a motion in limine, especially because Defendant did not file the 1983 deal  documents.  The motion is denied without  prejudice to objections at trial. Defendant’s MIL Re No Evidence of Exposure             Defendant  Industrial Holdings moves to exclude any argument that Plaintiff was asbestos  to asbestos from Defendant’s products because there is no evidence of such  exposure.  This is an improper motion for  summary judgment.  Also, pursuant to the  July 8, 2022 CMO, this motion is deemed made and denied, and Defendant did not  show good cause to depart from this order.   The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.  Motion to BifurcateDefendant BWDAC moves to bifurcate punitive damages.  The motion is granted.             The  moving party is to give notice.