 Case Number:  23CHCV02373    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 5-24-24
Case #23CHCV02373 , Alfonso Star vs. San Fernando Valley
Community Mental Health Center Inc., et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM INTERROGATORIES
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
San Fernando Valley Community Health Center, Inc.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff Alfonso Star
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
An order compelling
responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories.
 
RULING: Defendant’s
motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories is
granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
On September
19, 2023, Defendant San Fernando Valley Community Health Center (Defendant) served
Plaintiff Alfonso Star (Plaintiff) with Form Interrogatories, Set One. Defendant
represents that Plaintiff did not serve responses by the deadline of October
25, 2023. Defendant filed this motion on December 14, 2023. Defendant seeks an
order compelling responses to the form interrogatories.
 
No opposition
or reply has been filed.
 
ANALYSIS
The propounding
party may move for an order compelling responses if a party to whom the
interrogatories are directed fails to respond. (CCP §§ 2030.290, 2030.300; Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 404.) Responses to interrogatories are due within thirty days
from the date of service of the interrogatories. (CCP §§ 2030.260(a),
2016.050.) The responding party waives any objections to the interrogatories by
failing to serve responses in a timely manner. (CCP § 2030.290(a).) 
 
Plaintiff has
failed to respond to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories. Defendant has moved for
an order compelling Plaintiff’s response to these Interrogatories. The Court
grants Defendant’s motion to compel responses to the Form Interrogatories. 
 
Defendant’s
motion to compel responses to Form Interrogatories is granted.
 
Moving party to
give notice.Dept. F43Date: 5-24-24Case #23CHCV02373, Alfonso Star vs. San Fernando
Valley Community Mental Health Center, Inc., et al.Trial Date: N/A DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT MOVING PARTY: Defendant San Fernando Valley Community
Mental Health Center, Inc.RESPONDING PARTIES: No response has been filed RELIEF REQUESTEDDemurrer·        
Entire First Amended Complaint·        
First Cause of Action for Kidnapping·        
Second Cause of Action for Fraud·        
Third Cause of Action for Concealment·        
Fourth Cause of Action for Negligence·        
Fifth Cause of Action for Wrongful Imprisonment·        
Sixth Cause of Action for Personal Injury·        
Seventh Cause of Action for Emotional Stress and
Duress·        
Eighth Cause of Action for Loss of Personal
Property·        
Ninth Cause of Action for Loss of Income·        
Tenth Cause of Action for Loss of Time Div. 50
Program·        
Eleventh Cause of Action for Loss of Record
Correction Under Diversion 50 Program·        
Twelfth Cause of Action for Conversion RULING: Demurrer is sustained without leave to
amend. SUMMARY OF ACTION From Plaintiff Alfonzo Star’s (Plaintiff) complaint, it
appears that he is alleging that Defendant San Fernando Valley Community Mental
Health Center, Inc. (Defendant) or the other named defendants made false
representations to a judge regarding Plaintiff’s participation in a diversion
program. Defendant provides rehabilitation services in connection with a
diversion program. Plaintiff alleges that though he was in compliance with the
reporting requirements of the program, Defendant reported to the court that he
was not in compliance. Plaintiff alleges that as a result, he was remanded to
jail. His alleged damages are a result of that incarceration. On August 8, 2023, Plaintiff filed his initial complaint.
This Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s entire complaint with
leave to amend on January 29, 2024. On April 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed his First
Amended Complaint (FAC). Plaintiff filed his complaint with causes of action
for kidnapping, fraud, concealment, negligence, wrongful imprisonment, personal
injury, emotional distress and duress, loss of personal property, loss of
income, loss of time Div. 50 program, and coercion. Defendant filed its demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC on April
17, 2024. No opposition has been filed. ANALYSISDefendant brings a demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC on the basis
that it does not state facts sufficient to constitute any cause of action and
is uncertain. Defendant also demurs on the basis that the FAC is barred by the
Civ. Code § 47 litigation privilege. A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading
“by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (CCP
§ 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law…”
’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the court liberally
construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action has been stated.
(Picton v. Anderson Union High School
Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)             Demurrer Based on Litigation
PrivilegeDefendant demurs
to the complaint on this basis that it is barred by the litigation privilege
from Civ. Code § 47 due to Plaintiff’s apparent allegations that someone
employed by Defendant made false representations to a judge. Civ. Code § 47(b)(2)
protects statements made during judicial proceedings. The litigation
privilege has been held to be absolute and broadly applied with all doubts
resolved in favor of the privilege. (Silberg v. Anderson (1990) 50
Cal.3d 205, 211, 215; Kashian v. Harriman (2002) 98 Cal.App,4th 892, 913
[“Any doubt about whether the privilege applies is resolved in favor of
applying it. [Citation.]”].) The California Supreme Court has held that the
litigation privilege is quite extensive and even extends beyond the courthouse
doors. (Jacob B. v. County of Shasta (2007) 40 Cal.4th 948.) Defendant argues
that the conduct alleged in Plaintiff’s FAC would be protected by the
litigation privilege. Plaintiff seemingly alleges that an individuals called
Defendants Hernandez and/or “Emily” perjured themselves before the Court in
their compliance reporting on Plaintiff’s status. While it is unclear from
Plaintiff’s FAC who these individuals are or what their relationship to
Defendant is, the in-court statements that Plaintiff has alleged were false
would be immune from tort liability through the litigation privilege because
they were made during judicial proceedings. All of
Plaintiff’s claims related to the in-court statements would be barred by the
litigation privilege.             Kidnapping and Wrongful
ImprisonmentFirst, Penal Code
§ 207 does not allow for a private cause of action for kidnapping. Even if it
did allow for a private cause of action, Plaintiff has not alleged facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action for kidnapping because Plaintiff has
not alleged that Defendants used force or fear to incarcerate Plaintiff, which
are required elements for kidnapping. (See Penal Code § 207(a).) Furthermore,
Penal Code § 207(f) indicates that the section does not apply to anyone making
an arrest. As for wrongful
imprisonment, a required element for it is that it was done without lawful
privilege. (See Penal Code § 236; Fermino v. Fedco, Inc. (1994) 7
Cal.4th 701, 716.) In this case, the statements were made in court, and based
on those statements, Plaintiff was detained. This would be a lawful action.
Plaintiff has not pled facts indicating that he was wrongfully imprisoned. Defendant’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s causes of action for kidnapping and wrongful
imprisonment is sustained.             Fraud and ConcealmentThe elements of fraud
are (1) misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of falsity, (3) intent to induce
reliance on the misrepresentation, (4) justifiable reliance on the
misrepresentation, and (5) resulting damages. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 638.) Fraud allegations “‘involve a serious attack on
character’” and therefore are pleaded with specificity. (Hills Trans. Co. v.
Southwest Forest Industries, Inc. (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 702, 707.) General
and conclusory allegations are insufficient. (Lazar, 12 Cal.4th at 645.)
The particularity requirement demands that a plaintiff plead facts that “‘“show
how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.”’” (Id.) Further, when a plaintiff asserts fraud against a
corporation, the plaintiff must “allege the names of the persons who made the
allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to whom they
spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.” (Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.) The
elements for concealment are similar. Plaintiff’s FAC
is deficient because he does not indicate what was said in court or who said
it. He does not allege whether the statements made by Defendants Hernandez and
“Emily” were intentional or negligent. Plaintiff has not alleged anything
beyond the basic elements of these causes of action. He has not alleged them
with specificity, as is required. Defendant’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s causes of action for fraud and concealment is sustained.             Negligence“The elements of
a cause of action for negligence are (1) a legal duty to use reasonable care,
(2) breach of that duty, and (3) proximate cause between the breach and (4) the
plaintiff’s injury.” (Mendoza v. City of Los Angeles (1988) 66 Cal.App.4th
1333, 1339.) Plaintiff’s FAC
fails to allege any duty on the part of Defendants. It appears that he is
alleging that Defendants were negligent because they failed to appear in court,
but he does not indicate whether they were under any legal duty to appear in
court. Plaintiff also does not indicate whether Defendants owed him any legal
duty. Defendant’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s cause of action for negligence is sustained.             UncertaintyDefendant also
argues that Plaintiff’s FAC is uncertain because a complaint must contain “a
statement of the facts constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and
concise language.” (CCP § 425.10.) Defendant argues
that Plaintiff’s complaint fails to plead the facts with sufficient clarity for
Defendant to know the relationship of the parties, Defendants’ roles and
duties, and the nature and contents of the report made to the Court. The FAC
also fails to state who made the report to the Court or what the report said. Defendant also
argues that Plaintiff’s causes of action for personal injury, emotional stress
and duress, loss of personal property, loss of income, loss of time in Div. 50
program, and loss of record in Div. 50 program would be items of damages, not
separate claims. Additionally,
while coercion is in the caption, the FAC fails to provide any facts relevant
to this cause of action in the complaint itself. The Court agrees
that Plaintiff’s FAC is fatally uncertain.             Leave to AmendDefendant has
requested that the Court sustain its demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC without leave
to amend, based on Plaintiff’s claims being barred by the Civ. Code § 47
litigation privilege and because “the burden of proving such reasonable
possibility [to amend] is squarely on the plaintiff. [Citation.]” (Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d. 311, 318.) Plaintiff did not
file an opposition to Defendant’s demurrer, so Plaintiff has not fulfilled his
burden of proving a reasonable possibility to amend his FAC. Based on this and
Defendant’s above arguments, Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s entire
complaint and all causes of action is sustained without leave to amend. CONCLUSIONDefendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC is sustained without
leave to amend. 
Moving party to give notice. Dept. F43Date: 5-24-24Case #23CHCV02373 , Alfonso Star vs. San Fernando Valley
Community Mental Health Center Inc., et al.Trial Date: N/A MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION ADMITTED MOVING PARTY: Defendant
San Fernando Valley Community Health Center, Inc.RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff Alfonso Star RELIEF
REQUESTEDAn Order
deeming Defendant’s Requests for Admission admitted. RULING: Defendant’s
motion to deem requests for admission admitted is granted. SUMMARY OF
ACTIONOn September
19, 2023, Defendant San Fernando Valley Community Health Center (Defendant) served
Plaintiff Alfonso Star (Plaintiff) with Requests for Admission, Set One. Defendant
represents that Plaintiff did not serve responses by the deadline of October
25, 2023. Defendant filed this motion on December 14, 2023. Defendant seeks an
order deeming the requests for admission admitted. No opposition
or reply has been filed. ANALYSIS“Any party may
obtain discovery . . . by a written request that any other party to the action
admit the genuineness of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters
of fact, opinion relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for
admission may relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”
(CCP § 2033.010.)¿ “Within 30 days after service of requests for admission, the
party to whom the requests are directed shall serve the original of the
response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the response on all
other parties who have appeared…” (CCP § 2033.250(a).)¿ ¿ If a party to
whom requests for admissions are served fails to provide a timely response, the
party to whom the request was directed waives any objections, including based
on privilege or the work product doctrine. (CCP § 2033.280(a).) The requesting
party can move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth
of any matters specified in the request be deemed admitted, as well as for
monetary sanctions. (CCP § 2033.280(b).) The court shall issue this order
unless the party to whom the request was made serves a response in substantial
compliance prior to the hearing on the motion. (CCP § 2033.280(c).)¿ Plaintiff did
not serve responses to Defendants requests for admissions before the deadline. Based
on the information available to the Court, it does not appear that Plaintiff
has ever served responses to the requests for admissions.  Defendant’s
motion to deem requests for admissions admitted is granted. Moving party to
give notice.
Dept. F43Date: 5-24-24Case #23CHCV02373 , Alfonso Star vs. San Fernando Valley
Community Mental Health Center Inc., et al.Trial Date: N/A MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION MOVING PARTY: Defendant
San Fernando Valley Community Health Center, Inc.RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff Alfonso Star RELIEF
REQUESTEDAn order compelling
responses to Defendant’s Requests for Production RULING: Defendant’s
motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses to Defendant’s Requests for Production
is granted. SUMMARY OF
ACTIONOn September
19, 2023, Defendant San Fernando Valley Community Health Center (Defendant) served
Plaintiff Alfonso Star (Plaintiff) with Request for Identification and
Production of Documents, Set One. Defendant represents that Plaintiff did not
serve responses by the deadline of October 25, 2023. Defendant filed this
motion on December 14, 2023. Defendant seeks an order compelling responses to
the requests for production. No opposition
or reply has been filed. ANALYSISA propounding
party may move to compel responses to requests for production of documents
where the responding party fails to provide responses. (CCP § 2031.300.) The
responding party must provide responses within thirty days after the demand is
served. (CCP § 2031.030(c)(2) & (3).) The responding party waives all
objections, including privilege and work product, by failing to timely respond
to requests for production of documents. (CCP § 2031.300.)  Plaintiff has
failed to respond to Defendant’s Requests for Production. Defendant has moved
for an order compelling Plaintiff’s response to these Requests. The Court
grants Defendant’s motion to compel responses to the Requests for Production.  Defendant’s
motion to compel responses to the Requests for Production is granted. Moving party to
give notice.
