 Case Number:  24STCV02041    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  58 Judge Bruce G. Iwasaki     

Department 58

Hearing Date:             May 9, 2024
Case Name:                Licea v. Rocket Mortgage, LLC
Case No.:                    24STCV02041
Matter:                        Motion
to Quash Service of Summons for Lack of Personal Jurisdiction
Moving Party:             Specially Appearing Defendant Rocket
Mortgage, LLC 

Responding Party:      Plaintiff Jose Jesus Licea


Tentative Ruling:        The motion to quash service of summons is
continued to allow Plaintiff to conduct limited jurisdictional discovery. 

 
            The Complaint alleges that
Plaintiff Jose Jesus
Licea (Plaintiff) accessed the website
of Rocket Mortgage, LLC (Defendant). Thereafter, Plaintiff avers, Defendant
intentionally invaded Plaintiff’s right to privacy without his consent by
aiding a third-party company to secretly eavesdrop and record data in real time
from Plaintiff’s interaction with Defendant’s website chat box. The Complaint
alleges a single cause of action for violations of the California Invasion of
Privacy Act (CIPA).
 
On
April 2, 2024, Defendant Rocket Mortgage, LLC specially
appeared and moved to quash service of summons based on a lack of personal
jurisdiction. Plaintiff opposes the motion to quash, contending that there is
personal jurisdiction over Rocket Mortgage, LLC. 
 
The
motion to quash service of summons for lack of personal jurisdiction is continued.
 
Defendant’s
request for judicial notice of Exhibits A-B (California Superior Court orders) is
denied. (Evid. Code, § 452.) These orders, which are non-binding and involve
different defendants, are irrelevant. Plaintiff’s request for judicial notice
of Exhibits 1-4 is also denied for the same reasons.
 
Discussion
 
            Defendant Rocket Mortgage argues
that it is not subject to either general or specific jurisdiction in
California. In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant Rocket Mortgage is
subject to specific jurisdiction based on its “interactive and highly
commercial” website. 
 
            “The Due Process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment constrains a State’s authority to bind a nonresident
defendant to a judgment of its courts. [Citation.] [A] nonresident generally
must have ‘certain minimum contacts . . . such that the maintenance of the suit
does not offend “traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.” ’ ”
(Walden v. Fiore (2014) 571 U.S. 277, 283 (Walden).)  Personal jurisdiction may be either general
or specific.  For general jurisdiction, a
defendant’s forum contacts must be “so ‘continuous and systematic’ as to render
[the defendant] essentially at home in the forum State.”  (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S.
117, 139.)  The paradigm of general
jurisdiction for a corporation is its state of incorporation or principal place
of business. (Id. at p. 137.) 
 
            Specific or case-linked jurisdiction
“ ‘focuses on “the relationship among the defendant, the forum, and the
litigation.” ’ ”  (Walden, supra,
571 U.S. at pp. 283-284.) In particular, “the defendant’s suit-related conduct
must create a substantial connection with the forum State.”  (Id. at p. 284.)  There are three requirements for a court to
exercise specific jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant: “First, the
defendant must have purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits
or purposefully directed activities at forum residents.  Second, the controversy must relate to or
arise out of the defendant’s forum-related activities.  Third, the exercise of jurisdiction must
comport with traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.”   (David
L. v. Superior Court (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 359, 366.)  The plaintiff has the initial burden to
establish the first two requirements. 
Only after doing so does the burden shift to the defendant to show that
exercising jurisdiction would be unreasonable. 
(Id. at p. 367.)  The
plaintiff must do more than merely allege jurisdictional facts.  “ ‘It must present evidence sufficient to
justify a finding that California may properly exercise jurisdiction over the
defendant.’ ”  (Zehia v. Superior
Court (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 543, 552.)
 
Specific Jurisdiction:
 
            In moving to quash, Defendant Rocket
Mortgage submits evidence that Rocket Mortgage is a Michigan corporation, with
its principal place of business in Detroit, Michigan. (Courtney Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.)
Defendant then asserts, in a conclusory manner, that its website does not
specifically target California residents. (Id. ¶ 5.) 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff disclaims any reliance on general jurisdiction. Instead, relying
on specific jurisdiction, Plaintiff submits evidence that Rocket Mortgage
website is highly interactive and commercial. 
 
“
‘[P]urposeful availment occurs where a nonresident defendant “ ‘purposefully
direct[s]’ [its] activities at residents of the forum” [citation], “
‘purposefully derive[s] benefit’ from” its activities in the forum [citation],
“create[s] a ‘substantial connection’ with the forum” [citation], “
‘deliberately’ has engaged in significant activities within” the forum
[citation], or “has created ‘continuing obligations’ between [itself] and
residents of the forum” [citation]. By limiting the scope of a forum’s jurisdiction
in this manner, the “ ‘purposeful availment’ requirement ensures that a
defendant will not be haled into a jurisdiction solely as a result of ‘random,’
‘fortuitous,’ or ‘attenuated’ contacts … .” [Citation.] Instead, the defendant
will be subject to personal jurisdiction only if “ ‘it has clear notice that it
is subject to suit there, and can act to alleviate the risk of burdensome
litigation by procuring insurance, passing the expected costs on to customers,
or, if the risks are too great, severing its connection with the state.’ ”
[Citations.]’ ”  (HealthMarkets, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1160, 1168.)
 
“
‘When a defendant moves to quash service of process’ for lack of specific
jurisdiction, ‘the plaintiff has the initial burden of demonstrating facts justifying
the exercise of jurisdiction.’ [Citation.] ‘If the plaintiff meets this initial
burden, then the defendant has the burden of demonstrating “that the exercise
of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.” ’ [Citation.]” (Snowney v. Harrah's
Entertainment, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1054, 1062, 1062.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff contends that Defendant’s Website is highly interactive: the Website has
an interactive chat feature, which allows users to ask questions to Defendant; the
Website has an online loan application for consumers to fill out in order to
apply for various types of loans via the Website; the Website has an interest
rate estimator feature and mortgage calculator for users to fill out; and the
Website has a newsletter that can be subscribed to and allows its users to take
an online survey. (Ferrell Decl., ¶¶ 2-8, Exs. 1-7.) 
 
In
arguing that this evidence is sufficient to impose specific jurisdiction, Plaintiff
relies heavily on the holding in Pavlovich v.
Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262.
 
In
Pavlovich, the defendant’s company posted on its Web site the source
code of a computer program that would allow a visitor to the site to overcome
the copy control technology for all copyrighted motion pictures in the United
States. The Web site at issue was a passive site that had no interactive
features, and there was no evidence that any California resident visited or
downloaded the source code. The defendant was a Texas resident who had no
contacts in California. Although the motion picture, computer, and consumer
electronics industries were centered in California, our Supreme Court concluded
that the defendant’s knowledge that his tortious conduct could harm these
industries was insufficient to satisfy the effects test for personal
jurisdiction. (Pavlovich, supra, 29 Cal.4th at pp. 274–276.) Of
importance, the court specifically found that there was no evidence that the
defendant expressly aimed his conduct at or intentionally targeted this state;
mere knowledge of industry-wide effects in the forum state is not enough to
establish express aiming at the forum state under the effects test. (Id.
at pp. 276–278.)
 
The
rule applied Pavlovich is, when the scope of personal jurisdiction is
based on Internet use, courts use a sliding scale analysis[1]
described as follows: 
 
“ ‘At one end of the spectrum are
situations where a defendant clearly does business over the Internet. If the
defendant enters into contracts with residents of a foreign jurisdiction that
involve the knowing and repeated transmission of computer files over the
Internet, personal jurisdiction is proper. [Citation.] At the opposite end are
situations where a defendant has simply posted information on an Internet Web
site which is accessible to users in foreign jurisdictions. A passive Web site
that does little more than make information available to those who are
interested in it is not grounds for the exercise [of] personal jurisdiction.
[Citation.] The middle ground is occupied by interactive Web sites where a user
can exchange information with the host computer. In these cases, the exercise
of jurisdiction is determined by examining the level of interactivity and
commercial nature of the exchange of information that occurs on the Web site.’
” (Pavlovich, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 274 [citing Zippo Mfg. Co. v.
Zippo Dot Com, Inc. (W.D. Pa. 1997) 952 F.Supp. 1119, 1124].)
 
Therefore,
“[i]n assessing whether an out-of-state defendant's operation of a website
constitutes purposeful availment, we examine (1) whether the website targets
California residents (Snowney, supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 1063; cf. Yue
v. Yang (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 539, 547, 276 Cal.Rptr.3d 718 [out-of-state
defendant sends “ ‘California-focused’ social media messages ‘directly’ to
California residents,” knowing their residency; purposeful availment]; Zehia,
supra, 45 Cal.App.5th at pp. 556-557 [same]; Moncrief v. Clark
(2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1000, 1006-1007 [out-of-state resident made false
representations to California-based attorneys to induce purchase of farm
equipment; purposeful availment]), and, if it does not, (2) where the website
falls on a “sliding scale” of “interactivity” with Internet users, with
websites allowing the out-of-state defendant to conduct business with
California residents at one end of the scale and websites that passively make
information available at the other end (Snowney, at pp. 1063-1064; Pavlovich,
supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 274.” (Jacqueline B. v. Rawls Law Group, P.C.
(2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 243, 254–255.) In the absence of any evidence that the
Website targets California residents, a plaintiff can show purposeful availment
through an interactive website by showing that a “substantial number of sales
of goods or services to California residents via one's own website . . ..” (Thurston
v. Fairfield Collectibles of Georgia, LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 1231, 1240.)[2]
 
In
addressing this approach to personal jurisdiction, Plaintiff argues that the
legal compliance material on its website is evidence that Defendant targets the
California market. (Ferreel Decl., ¶ 9 [“Website’s Privacy Policy named the
“Rocket Family of Companies Privacy Policy” references the legal rights of
Californians throughout such document.”], Ex. 8.) The evidence also shows that Rocket
Mortgage, LLC is registered to do business in the State of California as a
foreign entity. (Ferrell Decl., ¶ 12.) 
 
While
this provides some circumstantial evidence that Rocket Mortgage made a
deliberate decision to sell to California residents through its website, the Court
is unconvinced that it indicates a substantial business interest in California
or that it intentionally directed its conduct toward California or
its residents in general. 
 
An
illustration of the “interactivity” inquiry is found in Jacqueline
B. v. Rawls Law Group, P.C. (2021) 68 Cal.App.5th 243. A Virginia law
firm, which plaintiff located through the internet, was found not subject to
specific personal jurisdiction in a malpractice case. The “firm's website
stated that the firm ha[d] a ‘nationwide’ practice that handled Federal Tort
Claims Act cases all over the country, and listed several examples of cases
that had resolved favorably to the firm's clients. Two of the examples involved
settlements in cases arising out of claims against California-based VA
facilities. The website listed the firm's toll-free number ... and had a ‘Reach
Out’ form that could be filled out and submitted to the firm from the website.”
(Id. at pp. 248–249.) The website also had a “ ‘live chat’ ” function
that the plaintiff used. (Id. at p. 249.) The firm mailed a retainer
agreement to the plaintiff in California and subsequently negotiated a
settlement proposal with VA attorneys located in Arizona. (Id. at pp.
249–250.) 
 
In
the meantime, the plaintiff left California and eventually moved to Virginia,
where she agreed to the settlement. (Id. at p. 250.) Two years later,
she sued the firm for malpractice in California. (Ibid.) The trial court
granted the law firm’s motion to quash; the Court of Appeal affirmed. (Id.
at pp. 251, 259.)


The
appellate court concluded the defendant “did not purposefully direct any
activities toward California residents. At most, the law firm operated a
website that could be accessed by California residents, but the website did not
target California residents specifically and it was plaintiff who first
contacted defendants.” (Jacqueline B. v. Rawls Law Group, P.C., supra,
68 Cal.App.5th at p. 254.) “Although the website boasted that the firm had a
‘nationwide’ practice and set forth examples of prior settlements from persons
who had received substandard treatment in California VA facilities, the website
included examples from all around the country and the website itself was
accessible from anywhere.” (Id. at p. 255.) Given the interactive
features of the site, it “occupied a ‘middle ground’ ” on the sliding scale,
“although the fact that plaintiff herself had to reach out to the firm
directly confirm[ed] the minimal interactivity of the website.” (Ibid.)
Defendants did not “purposefully derive any benefit from the forum state over
and above the potential contingency fee promised in the retainer agreement,”
and a discrete, short-term contract between an out-of-state defendant and a
forum resident does not, in and of itself, establish purposeful availment. (Jacqueline
B. v. Rawls Law Group, P.C., supra, at p. 255.)


Defendant’s
registration to do business in California does not demonstrate that Rocket
Mortgage’s website – which is available nationwide – specifically targeted the
California forum. “What is needed, though, is some prioritization of the forum
state, some differentiation of the forum state from other locations, or some
focused dedication to the forum state which permits the conclusion that the
defendant's suit-related conduct “create[s] a substantial connection” with the
forum.” (Briskin v. Shopify, Inc. (9th Cir. 2023) 87 F.4th 404, 420.)
Here, the evidence is inadequate to make this showing. Nor, for example, does
the evidence show Defendant’s interactive website conducted a substantial amount
of business with California residents. 
 
Thus,
on evidence presented, Plaintiff has not met its burden of showing adequate
ties to the forum state. 
 
            In the alternative, Plaintiff requests
that the Court defer ruling on this motion until Plaintiff has had a reasonable
opportunity to conduct jurisdiction discovery. 
 
“In
order to meet its burden of proof [citation], [a] plaintiff is entitled to
conduct discovery with regard to the issue of jurisdiction before the hearing
on [a] motion to quash; e.g., to establish the nature and extent of the
defendant's ‘contacts’ in California. (The hearing date is often continued to
facilitate such discovery.) [Citation.] [¶] But a continuance may be denied if
there is no showing that discovery would likely produce evidence of additional
‘contacts.’ [Citation.]” (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil
Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2020) ¶ 3:380, p. 3-111.)
 
“The
granting of a continuance for discovery lies in the discretion of the trial
court, whose ruling will not be disturbed in the absence of manifest abuse.
[Citation.]” (Beckman v. Thompson (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 481, 487.)
 
Here,
Plaintiff notes that Defendant has not denied that it generates any revenue
from its Website or to what extent – if any – it solicits business from California
customers. Defendant’s evidence also fails to address whether it has: (1) any
employees working in California; (2) any physical offices in California; (3)
any real property in California; or (4) any bank accounts in California. 
 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court continues the matter allow Plaintiff to conduct
discovery relating to personal jurisdiction, which may include discovery into
the revenue generated from website sales/services to Californians and its
relative proportion to nationwide website revenue.  Such data should be furnished under a
protective order.
            
Conclusion 
 
Accordingly,
the Court will continue Defendant Rocket Mortgage’s motion to quash for lack of
personal jurisdiction. 


