

Hearing
Date:             May 9, 2024
Case
Name:                Herrera v. We Pack
it All, LLC
Case
No.:                    24STCV03213
Matter:                        Motion to Compel
Arbitration 
Moving
Party:             Defendant Partners Personnel-Management Services, LLC

                                    Joinder
by Defendant WePackitAll, LLC

Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Elia Herrera

Ruling:                       The Motion to Compel
Arbitration is granted as to Defendant Partners
Personnel-Management Services, LLC and Defendant
WePackitAll, LLC; the matter is stayed pending resolution of arbitration. 

 
In this
employment action, Plaintiff Elia Herrera (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint on February
7, 2024, alleging disability
discrimination, failure to provide reasonable accommodations, failure to engage
in the interactive process, and retaliation, as well as wrongful termination in
violation of public policy, and other claims against her former
employers, Defendants
WePackitAll, LLC and Partners Personnel-Management Services, LLC.
 
            On
April 2, 2024, Defendant Partners Personnel-Management Services, LLC moved to
compel arbitration pursuant to the parties’ arbitration agreement. On April 4,
2024, Defendant
WePackitAll, LLC joined the motion to compel arbitration. In
opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendants failed to establish the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement and that the arbitration agreement is unenforceable
based on unconscionability. 
 
            The motion to compel
arbitration is granted as Defendant Partners
Personnel-Management Services, LLC and Defendant WePackitAll, LLC. The
matter is stayed pending the outcome of arbitration. 
 
            Plaintiff’s objection
to the declaration of the Jennifer Rivas is overruled. Plaintiff’s objections
to the declaration of the Kyla Buenaventura is ruled as follows: Nos. 1-2 are overruled.[1]
 
Legal
Standard 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2, a court may order arbitration of a controversy if it finds that
the parties have agreed to arbitrate that dispute. Because the obligation to
arbitrate arises from contract, the court may compel arbitration only if the
dispute in question is one in which the parties have agreed to arbitrate. (Weeks
v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 352.) Since arbitration is a favored
method of dispute resolution, arbitration agreements should be liberally
interpreted, and arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly
does not apply to the dispute in question. (Id. at p. 353; Segal v.
Silberstein (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633.)
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants
move to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims and stay the matter while the
arbitration is pending.
 
Existence of Arbitration Agreement:
 
            Defendants
seek to compel arbitration based on an arbitration agreement between the
parties. In support of the existence of an arbitration agreement, Defendants submit
evidence that, on October 15, 2020, Defendant Partners Personnel-Management
Services, LLC (PPMS) provided Plaintiff with its Onboarding
Packet, which includes a “Mutual Agreement For Individual Arbitration”, through
its Tempworks Enterprise software program (Tempworks). (Danley
Decl., ¶¶ 4-5, Ex. A; Bautista Decl., ¶¶ 2-4; Rivas Decl., ¶¶
4-14.) The Mutual
Agreement For Individual Arbitration (Arbitration Agreement) was presented
to Plaintiff in Spanish. (Danley Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. A.) Specifically, the Arbitration
Agreement stated: “Employee and Company agree to resolve by binding arbitration
all disputes, claims, causes of action, lawsuits, proceedings, and/or controversies
(“Claims”), past present, or future, relating to or arising out of Employee’s
employment relationship or the cessation of said relationship with the Company
. . ..” (Danley Decl., Ex. A.)
 
Defendants’ evidence shows that Plaintiff
accepted the terms of employment that same day, by electronically signing the Arbitration
Agreement. (Danley Decl., ¶¶ 4-5, Ex. A; Rivas Decl., ¶¶
4-14). 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendants failed to meet their burden to show the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement because Plaintiff denies signing the
arbitration agreement. (Herrera Decl., ¶¶ 7-14.) Here, Plaintiff states that she filled out
a questionnaire but she never created an account or password to complete her
questionnaire or to apply to work with Defendants. (Herrera Decl., ¶ 11.)
Moreover, although her name is on the Arbitration Agreement, she states that
she does not recall signing it or putting her name on the document “in any way.”
(Herrera Decl., ¶ 14.)
 
Additionally, Plaintiff argues that Defendants
have not demonstrated that the “signature” on the arbitration agreement must
have been an act of Plaintiff, through sufficient security measures or other
means. In particular, Plaintiff notes that the Tempworks account is created
using the employee/applicant’s last name and the last four digits of their
social security number; Plaintiff notes that if both “match Defendant PPMS’
employee’s information, then the account will get created with the email
address that the user entered and a unique, secure password that the user set.”
(Rivas Decl., ¶ 7 [emphasis added].) Thus, Plaintiff argues that “[a]t no point
in the process does the person who created the account need access to something
only Plaintiff would have access to.” (Opp., 5:8-9 [emphasis added].) 
 
             Lastly, in opposition, Plaintiff argues that
the Arbitration Agreement is suspect based on the multiple versions, suggesting
that the Arbitration Agreement may have been altered. IN contrast to the
versions attached to the declarations in the moving papers, Plaintiff’s counsel
states she received a copy of the Arbitration Agreement with additional
writings on the bottom left of the first page stating: 
 
“Digitally signed by partners 
Date: 2020.10.15 19:39:59 + 00:00 
Signers: Elia Herrera 2020-10-15
19:39:56 (UTC) 
Location: RD2818780B175C” (Scalia
Decl., ¶¶ 3-4, Ex. 2.) 
 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel further reports that when she accessed the Arbitration Agreement copy she
received on March 18, 2024, the document states “at least one signature has
problems.” (Decl. Scalia ¶ 7, Ex. 3) The document additionally states
“Signature Validity is UNKNOWN.” (Decl. Scalia ¶ 8, Ex. 4)
 
            Civil
Code section 1633.9, subdivision (a), governs the authentication of electronic
signatures. It provides that an electronic signature may be attributed to a
person if “it was the act of the person.” (Civ. Code, § 1633.9, subd. (a).)
Further, “[t]he act of the person may be shown in any manner, including a
showing of the efficacy of any security procedure applied to determine the
person to which the electronic record or electronic signature was
attributable.” (Ibid.) 
 
“For
example, a party may establish that the electronic signature was “the act of
the person” by presenting evidence that a unique login and password known only
to that person was required to affix the electronic signature, along with
evidence detailing the procedures the person had to follow to electronically
sign the document and the accompanying security precautions.” (Bannister v.
Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 545.)
 
            The
Court finds Defendants have met their burden of authenticating the electronic
signature. 
 
The Court
will first address the electronic signature, which bears on the credibility of
Plaintiff’s denial that she signed any Arbitration Agreement. Here, Defendant
submits adequate evidence of the process by which Plaintiff applied for employment with Defendant
and received and signed the Arbitration Agreement. Defendant’s evidence shows that
Defendant employed Tempworks Enterprise, an applicant tracking software program
where applicants and/or employees could remotely, digitally sign employment
documents. (Rivas Decl., ¶ 3.) Each user of Tempworks was required to create a
personal account that was unique to the individual user. (Rivas Decl., ¶ 7.)
Each user would create this account by validating their last name and last four
digits of their social security number. (Rivas Decl., ¶ 7.) If both values
matched Defendant’s records then the account would get created with the email
address that the user entered and a unique, secure password that the user set.
(Rivas Decl., ¶ 7.) Defendant has never been able to retrieve the unique
password used by employees to access Tempworks. (Rivas Decl., ¶ 7.)
 
After creating this user account, the
applicant can then click on a signing location and enter their name as their
signature. (Rivas Decl., ¶ 10.) The applicant must click each signing location
to place his or her name or signature in that spot. (Rivas Decl., ¶ 10.) The
time and date the document was electronically signed is automatically recorded
and stored. (Rivas Decl., ¶ 10.) Once the applicant signs the documents in the
Onboarding Packet, including Arbitration Agreement, the applicant must click on
the review and submit tab to submit the signed documents. (Rivas Decl., ¶ 11.) 
 
According to the records stored on
Tempworks, Plaintiff electronically signed and completed the Arbitration Agreement
on October 15, 2020 at 12:02 p.m. (PST) after accessing Tempworks by inputting
her unique username and password. (Danley Decl., ¶¶ 4-5; Rivas Decl., ¶ 13, Ex.
A; Buenaventura Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. D.) Defendants contend that the only way the
signature and date shown could appear on the Arbitration Agreement is if
Plaintiff clicked on the signing location to insert her electronic signature,
and submitted the signed document. Similarly, the date and time stamp recorded
by Tempworks could have only been recorded after Plaintiff electronically
signed the documents. (Rivas Decl., ¶ 14.)
 
            Significantly,
even if the last name and social security number were accessible to Defendant
PPMS, the “account will get created with the email address that the user
entered….” and metadata here shows that the email address used was
Bikinga30@outlook.com. (Rivas Decl., ¶ 7; Buenaventura Decl., ¶ Ex. D; Rivas
Reply Decl., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff does not address this security feature or argue
that that the email address is not hers.  
 
Plaintiff has
offered no evidence that another person could have caused his electronic
signature to appear on the arbitration agreement. 
 
For
instance, in Bannister v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th
541, 544–545 —a case that also involved an online onboarding process—plaintiff
Bannister submitted evidence that a human resources manager Matson visited the
facility where Bannister worked and completed the onboarding process and arbitration
agreement for her by asking for the necessary information without showing
Bannister what was on the computer. (Id. at pp. 546–547.) Bannister also
presented evidence that Matson completed the onboarding process for other
employees remotely and without their participation. (Id. at p. 547.) 
 
In affirming
the denial of the motion to compel arbitration, the court of appeal concluded that
this was “a classic example of a trial court drawing a conclusion from
conflicting evidence.” (Id. at p. 545.) That is, the trial court
disbelieved Matson's account of the onboarding process and instead credited
Bannister's evidence that Matson completed the onboarding process for her. (Id.
at p. 548.) 
 
There is no
similar conflict in the record here. Plaintiff's declaration contains no
suggestion that any other human resources personnel completed her onboarding
documents (or the onboarding documents for other employees without their
knowing participation). Rather, Plaintiff only speculates that it is
theoretically possible someone could have signed for her. 
 
Further, as
discussed above, the evidence here shows that only an applicant has access to
the Tempworks’ user account
using the applicant’s email address and the unique password the applicant set –
which is sufficient to show “the efficacy of any security procedure applied to
determine the person to which the electronic record or electronic signature was
attributable.”

 
            Lastly,
Plaintiff does not dispute signing
the Arbitration Agreement; she only states she does not “recall” signing it. (Herrera
Decl., ¶ 14.) 


With respect
to Plaintiff’s argument that there are different versions and the additional
information on the copy produced to Plaintiff’s counsel on March 18, 2024, proves
this fact – this argument is unpersuasive. 
 
As a
preliminary matter, the reply evidence adequately explains the discrepancy
between “versions.” Specifically, Defendant submits the declaration of Monine
Zerby, a
secretary at Plaintiff’s counsel’s law firm, who states that at the time of she
filed the motion and supporting declarations, she did not reprint the
arbitration agreement as a PDF, which sometimes prevents the signature from
remaining on the documents. (Zerby Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.)
 
Further, Plaintiff fails to demonstrate
any significance derived from the additional information contained in the March
18, 2024 Arbitration Agreement copy. In fact, the reply adequately addresses
and explains each new line of information. (Reply, 2:17-3:22 [Rivas Reply Decl.,
¶¶  2-8].)
 
Thus, the
Court finds that Defendants’ evidence is sufficient to authenticate the electronic
signature as “the act of” Plaintiff. Plaintiff submits no conflicting evidence.
Defendants
have carried their burden of demonstrating the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement between the parties. 
 
Enforceability of the Arbitration Agreement:
 
            In opposition,
Plaintiff also argues that the Arbitration Agreement is both procedurally and substantively
unconscionable. 
 
            If a court
finds as a matter of law that a contract or any clause of a contract is
unconscionable, the court may refuse to enforce the contract or clause, or it
may limit the application of any unconscionable clause so as to avoid any
unconscionable result. (Civ. Code, § 1670.5, subd. (a).) “An agreement to
arbitrate, like any other contract, is subject to revocation if the agreement
is unconscionable.” (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 74, 83 [citing Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 98].)
 
            “The
general principles of unconscionability are well established. A contract is
unconscionable if one of the parties lacked a meaningful choice in deciding
whether to agree and the contract contains terms that are unreasonably
favorable to the other party. [Citation.] Under this standard, the
unconscionability doctrine ‘ “has both a procedural and a substantive element.”
’ [Citation.] ‘The procedural element addresses the circumstances of contract
negotiation and formation, focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal
bargaining power. [Citations.] Substantive unconscionability pertains to the
fairness of an agreement's actual terms and to assessments of whether they are
overly harsh or one-sided.’ [Citation.] [¶] Both procedural and substantive unconscionability
must be shown for the defense to be established, but ‘they need not be present
in the same degree.’ [Citation.] Instead, they are evaluated on ‘ “sliding
scale.” ’ [Citation.] ‘[T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term,
the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to’ conclude that
the term is unenforceable. [Citation.] Conversely, the more deceptive or
coercive the bargaining tactics employed, the less substantive unfairness is
required. [Citations.] A contract's substantive fairness ‘must be considered in
light of any procedural unconscionability’ in its making. [Citation.] ‘The
ultimate issue in every case is whether the terms of the contract are
sufficiently unfair, in view of all relevant circumstances, that a court should
withhold enforcement.’ ” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111,
125–126.) “The burden of proving unconscionability rests upon the party
asserting it.” (OTO, supra, 8 Cal.5th at p. 126.)
 
            Plaintiff first
argues the Arbitration Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because the arbitration
provision was a condition of employment and offered on a take-it-or leave it
basis. That
is, Plaintiff had no ability to negotiate the terms of the Arbitration Agreement,
and Defendant made no effort to explain its terms to Plaintiff. (Herrera Dec.,
¶¶ 15-18.) In sum, Plaintiff could either sign the Agreement or find another
job.
 
            Plaintiff
also argues that she did not know what “arbitration” was; that is, she did not
realize that agreeing to arbitration meant that she was giving up her right to
a jury, and no one explained this to him. (Herrera Decl., ¶ 15.)
 
            Finally, Plaintiff
contends the arbitration provision was oppressive because it was a four-page
long document in “small text.” (Opp., 7:22-8:13.)
 
            Given the
take it or leave it nature of the contract, the arbitration agreement suffers
from some minimal degree of procedural unconscionability. It is an
adhesive contract, as are most employment agreements; “few employees are in a
position to refuse a job because of an arbitration requirement.” (Armendariz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 115.) 
 
However, Plaintiff’s purported
failure to understand the terms of the arbitration provision does not add to
the procedural unconscionability of the Arbitration Agreement. (Gutierrez v.
Autowest, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 77, 88 [“[S]imply because a
provision within a contract of adhesion is not read or understood by the
nondrafting party does not justify a refusal to enforce it.”].) Further, the
Arbitration Agreement was presented as separate document with a bolded and
underlined heading at the top that clearly indicated the nature of its terms;
the Arbitration Agreement was not buried in a long document, in a smaller font,
or otherwise hidden. (Armendariz, at p. 114 [“Surprise” is defined as
“the extent to which the supposedly agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden
in the prolix printed form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed
terms.”].)
 
            In
short, there is a small degree of procedural unconscionability arising from the
inception of the arbitration agreement. 
 
             Plaintiff also contends the
arbitration agreement is substantively unconscionable because the Arbitration
Agreement is not mutual, requires Plaintiff to pay attorney fees, and does not
allow for adequate discovery.
 
            With
respect to the lack of mutuality claim, Plaintiff argues that the Arbitration
Agreement requires all claims likely to be brought by Plaintiff to be sent to
arbitration but does not limit Defendants’ ability to “seek restitution for any
criminal wrongdoing it may discover against the Employee” through the courts. Plaintiff
argues that this provision allows Defendant direct access to the courts but not
Plaintiff. But the provision only applies to criminal complaints – not civil
claims. The Arbitration Agreement only applies and limits the parties’ right bring
civil claims in court. It does not (and could not) limits the government’s
ability to address criminal wrongs or limit a parties’ access to criminal
remedies.
 
            Additionally,
Plaintiff argues that under the Arbitration Agreement’s terms it requires Plaintiff
to pay attorney fees and does not limit the employer’s right to recover to
instances where the plaintiff’s claims are found to be “frivolous, unreasonable
without foundation or brought in bad faith.” Again, this mischaracterizes the
specific language in the Arbitration Agreement 
 
            As the
reply notes, Arbitration Agreement provides that “the Arbitrator shall have the
authority to order any party found to have raised any claim or defense without
substantial justification to pay the other party's attorney's fees and costs pursuant
to applicable rules of law, such as Fed. R. Civ. P. 11 or California Civil
Code Proc. 128.7.” (Emphasis added) The Arbitration Agreement also states “The
Arbitrator shall have the power to award any legal or equitable relief
available in a court of competent Jurisdiction, including, but not limited to,
attorneys' fees and costs, to the extent such relief is available at law.”
(Emphasis added)
 
            In FEHA
cases, the applicable law is that a prevailing plaintiff may ordinarily recover
attorney's fees unless special circumstances would render the award unjust, but
a prevailing defendant may recover them only if the plaintiff's action was
frivolous, unreasonable, without foundation, or brought in bad faith. (Gov. Code,
§ 12965, subd. (b); see Chavez v. City of Los Angeles (2010) 47 Cal.4th
970, 985.) Under Armendariz, the Court imposed a minimum requirement
that “the arbitration agreement ... cannot generally require the employee to
bear any type of expense that the employee would not be required to bear
if he or she were free to bring the action in court.” (Armendariz, supra,
24 Cal.4th at pp. 110–111.) 
 
            Here,
however, the qualifying language that limits the Arbitrator’s discretion within
the “applicable rules of law” and “to the extent such relief is available at law” keeps the
attorney's fees provision from running afoul of Armendariz 's minimum
requirement. As such, the challenged attorney's fees provisions satisfy Armendariz
's minimum requirements.[2]
 
            Moreover,
not all claims to be arbitrated under the agreement are FEHA claims. As to
traditional contractual claims, the attorney fees provision of the agreement is
unremarkable, awarding fees to the prevailing party. As
noted in Armendariz, where the attorney fees provision of the agreement
to arbitrate is reasonable and unremarkable on its face, and, to the extent it
may be inconsistent with the FEHA, it is severable and can be stricken. (Id.
at p. 124; see also Civ. Code, § 1670.5, subd. (a).)


            Finally,
Plaintiff argue that the Arbitration Agreement impermissibly limits discovery. Plaintiff
speculates that her ability to conduct several depositions of non-party witnesses prior to
the arbitration hearing including former employees is compromised by the
Arbitration Agreement.
 
            Defendant
does not address this argument in reply. 
 
The Arbitration Agreement states: “The
parties hereto shall be entitled to conduct reasonable discovery, which may be
limited by the arbitrator, in the form of document requests, interrogations,
requests for admissions, physical and/or mental examinations, and depositions,
for the purpose of obtaining information to prosecute or defend the claims
presented.”
 
            The
provision is not substantively unconscionable. Parties may “agree to something less
than the full panoply of discovery,” although employees “are at least
entitled to discovery sufficient to adequately arbitrate their statutory claim,
including access to essential documents and witnesses, as determined by the
arbitrator(s) ....” (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at pp. 105-106; De
Leon v. Pinnacle Property Management Services, LLC (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th
476, 487.) 
 
As the Armendariz
court explained with respect to FEHA claims, “We agree that adequate discovery
is indispensable for the vindication of FEHA claims.” (Armendariz, at p.
104, 99 Cal.Rptr.2d 745, 6 P.3d 669.) “In striking the appropriate balance
between the desired simplicity of limited discovery and an employee's statutory
rights, courts assess the amount of default discovery permitted under the
arbitration agreement, the standard for obtaining additional discovery, and
whether the plaintiffs have demonstrated that the discovery limitations will
prevent them from adequately arbitrating their statutory claims.” (Davis v.
Kozak (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 897, 910-911; accord, De Leon, at p.
487, 287 Cal.Rptr.3d 402.) “The denial of adequate discovery in arbitration
proceedings leads to the de facto frustration of the employee's statutory
rights.” (Armendariz, at p. 104, 99 Cal.Rptr.2d 745, 6 P.3d 669; accord,
Dougherty v. Roseville Heritage Partners (2020) 47 Cal.App.5th 93, 106,
260 Cal.Rptr.3d 580.)
 
            Here,
the provision does not limit any discovery specifically but allows the arbitrator
discretion in determining what is reasonable discovery under the circumstances.



Therefore, even if the Arbitration
Agreement contains some degree of procedural unconscionability, the absence of substantive
unconscionability is fatal Plaintiff’s unconscionability argument. Defendant
has met its burden of demonstrating the existence of a valid, enforceable
Arbitration Agreement. 
 
Joinder of WePackItAll, LLC:
 
            Defendant
WePackItAll, LLC joins the motion to compel arbitration arguing it is a third
party beneficiary. 
 
             “[A] third party beneficiary of an
arbitration agreement may enforce it. [Citations.]” (Ronay Family Limited
Partnership v. Tweed (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 830, 838; Thomas v. Westlake (2012) 204 Cal. App. 4th 605, 614-615
[“[A] plaintiff's
allegations of an agency relationship among defendants is sufficient to allow
the alleged agents to invoke the benefit of an arbitration agreement executed
by their principal even though the agents are not parties to the agreement.”].)
 
            To invoke
the third party beneficiary exception, Defendant WePackItAll, LLC need only show that
the arbitration clause was “made expressly for [their] benefit.” (Civ. Code, §
1559.) It is “not necessary that the beneficiary be named and identified as an
individual. A third party may enforce a contract where he shows that he is a
member of a class of persons for whose benefit it was made.” (Garratt v.
Baker (1936) 5 Cal.2d 745, 748; accord, Cargill, Inc. v. Souza
(2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 962, 967.) 


            Pursuant to
Section 1 to the Arbitration Agreement, Plaintiff and Defendant Partners
Personnel-Management Services, LLC agreed to arbitrate all claims arising out
of Plaintiff’s employment with Defendant Partners Personnel-Management
Services, LLC including claims Plaintiff may have against “(1) the Company and
its affiliated agents, officers, directors or employees and/or (2) customers of
the Company or employers as a whole.” Section 8 provides: “Any Client of the
Company shall be deemed a third-party beneficiary under this Agreement for
purposes of enforcing this Agreement with respect to any claim between me and
such Client of the Company.”
 
Defendant WePackItAll, LLC asserts
it is a customer and client of Defendant Partners Personnel-Management
Services, LLC.
 
            The opposition
does not contend that Defendant WePackItAll, LLC is not a third party beneficiary.
In fact, the Complaint alleges they were both Plaintiff’s employers. (Compl.,
¶¶ 2-7.)
 
            Defendant
WePackItAll, LLC may enforce the Arbitration Agreement. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
the Court grants Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration as to Defendant Partners Personnel-Management
Services, LLC and Defendant WePackitAll, LLC; the matter will be stayed pending
the outcome of arbitration. 


