


            [1] In
opposition to the Commission’s demurrer, the County submits a declaration from
Howard Gest, Esq. (“Gest”) attaching emails between the Commission and the
County as exhibits.  Gest Decl., Exs.
A-B.  These communications concern
whether the County would add Finance as a real party-in-interest to the
Petition.  Gest Decl., ¶¶ 3-6, Exs. A-B.
Aside from meet-and-confer efforts, the only evidence
admissible on demurrer are the pleadings themselves and judicially noticeable
matters.  CCP §430.30(a); Blank, supra, 39 Cal.3d at
318.  The emails are irrelevant and have not been considered.


[2] The moving parties have satisfied the requirement to meet and
confer.  After the County served the
Commission with the FAP, it agreed to extend the deadline for a demurrer to
January 29, 2024.  Barich Decl., ¶3.  On January 17, 2024, Finance gave the County
notice of its intent to demur to the FAP. 
Brudigam Decl., ¶3.  Finance and
the County met and conferred on January 23 but could not resolve the issues in
the agreement.  Brudigam Decl., ¶5.  The Commission also met and conferred with
the County via telephone on the same date, but those efforts also failed.  Barich Decl., ¶4.  


[3] The
County’s oppositions are similar but not identical.  For convenience, the court will cite only the
County’s opposition to the Commission’s demur.


[4] Finance
correctly notes that there is a distinction between a “real party-in-interest” plaintiff
discussed in this case law and Finance.  Finance Reply at 5.  A
“real party-in-interest” is “any person or entity whose
interest will be directly affected by the proceeding”, which is “usually the
other party to the lawsuit or proceeding to be challenged”.  Connerly v. State Personnel Board,
(2006) 37 Cal.4th 1169, 1178. 
It may also be “’the person or entity in whose favor the acts complained
of [operate]’, ‘anyone having a direct interest in the result’”, or “’the real
adverse party...in whose favor the act complained of has been done.’”  Id. 
When the cases such as Cloud and Klopstock refer to a real
party-in-interest plaintiff, they are referring to a new plaintiff whose
interest will be directly affected by the proceeding.  In administrative mandamus, however, the real
party-in-interest refers to the other party to the administrative proceeding to
be challenged.  
 


[5] This
“its all one state” argument was disposed of by Redevelopment Agency, supra,
43 Cal.App.4th at 1194-95, 1198. 
See also Finance Reply at 8-9.

