  Case Number:  23STCP04362    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  85 
County of Los Angeles v.
Commission on State Mandates, 23STCP04362


Tentative decision on demurrer:
sustained without leave to amend



 
            
Respondent Commission on State Mandates (“Commission”) and Real
Party-in-Interest Department of Finance (“Finance”) demur to the First Amended Petition
(“FAP”) filed by Petitioner County of Los Angeles (“County”).
            The
court has read and considered the moving papers, oppositions, and replies, and renders
the following tentative decision. 
 
            A. Statement of the
Case
            1. The First
Amended Petition
            Petitioner
County filed the Petition on November 30, 2023. 
The operative pleading is the FAP, filed December 15, 2023, alleging erroneous
application of law under (1) Penal Code sections 188 and 189, (2) Penal Code
section 1170.95, and (3) the California Constitution (“Cal. Const.”) and
Government Code (“Govt. Code”) section 17556(g).  The FAP alleges in pertinent part as follows.
 
            a.
Statement of Facts
            Under
Cal. Const. art. XIII.B, section 6 (“art. XIII.B, section 6”), when the
Legislature or a state agency mandates a new program or higher level of service
on any local government, the State shall provide a subvention of funds to
reimburse that local government for the costs of that program or higher level
of service.  FAP, ¶5.  Art. XIII.B section 6(a)(2) creates an
exception when legislation defines a new crime or changes an existing
definition of a crime.  FAP, ¶6.  
            In
2018, the Legislature enacted SB 1437, effective January 1, 2019.  FAP, ¶7. 
SB 1437 amended Penal Code sections 188 and 189 to limit accomplice
liability under the felony-murder rule to the actual killer and those who
either (1) aided and abetted with the intent to kill or (2) were a major participant
in the underlying felony and acted with reckless indifference to human
life.  FAP, ¶¶ 7-8.  This limitation does not apply when the defendant
knew or reasonably should have known the victim was a peace officer engaged in
the performance of his duties.  FAP,
¶8.  
            SB
1437 also enacted Penal Code section 1170.95 which requires district attorneys
and public defenders to participate in post-conviction proceedings in which
convicted individuals could petition a court to vacate their conviction based
on Penal Code sections 188 and 189 and be resentenced on remaining counts.  FAP, ¶9.
            On
December 31, 2019, the County filed a Commission Test Claim (“Test Claim”) to
seek reimbursement for obligations incurred under SB 1437 and the
post-conviction proceedings required thereunder.  FAP, ¶10. 
The County asserted that the District Attorney’s Office expended
$1,592,000 in the 2018-2019 fiscal year and $1,295,000 in the 2019-2020 fiscal
year in SB 147 proceedings.  FAP, Ex. A
(Decision (“Dec.”), p. 17).  The Public
Defender’s office expended $206,000 in the 2018-2019 fiscal year and $471,000
in the 2019-2020 fiscal year.  Dec., p.
17.
            Finance
filed comments on the Test Claim as part of proceedings.  Dec., pp. 3, 19.  Finance argued that SB 1437 is subject to
Govt. Code section 17556(g)’s exclusion of “crimes and infractions” because it
changed the application of and penalty for the felony murder rule.  Dec., p. 19. 
This meant that SB 1437 did not impose costs mandated by the State.  Dec., p. 19. 

            On
December 4, 2020, the Commission issued a decision (“Decision”) finding that Penal
Code sections 188 and 189 did not impose any requirements on local
governments.  FAP, ¶¶ 11-12.  The Decision found that new Penal Code
section 11790.95 added a new program or higher level of service which imposed
new requirements on county district attorneys and public defenders.  Dec., p. 3. 
However, under Govt. Code section 17556(g), the State was exempt from
reimbursement costs arising from a statute that eliminates a crime or
infraction.  FAP, ¶13, Dec., p. 3.  SB 1437 eliminated the crime of murder under
the felony-murder rule and the “natural and probable causes doctrine.”  FAP, ¶14, Dec., p. 3.  The defendant instead must be either the
actual killer, someone with intent to kill, or a major participant in the
underlying felony who was acting with reckless indifferent to human life.  FAP, ¶14, Dec., p. 3.  The elimination of a crime meant that any
costs incurred were not mandated by the State within the meaning of Govt. Code
section 17556(g).  Dec., p. 3.  The Decision was served on all parties on
December 9, 2020.  Dec., p. 1.
 
            b.
Allegations of Law
            The
Decision was wrong because the amendments to Penal Code sections 188 and 189
did not eliminate the crime of first-degree murder.  FAP, ¶18(a). 
SB 1437 just modified the elements and conduct required for a conviction
thereunder.  FAP, ¶¶ 18(a)-(b).  The felony-murder rule and natural and probable
consequences doctrine are theories defining what constitutes a crime, not a
crime itself.  FAP, ¶18(c).  The Decision did not eliminate the crimes of
first-degree murder or the “felony” underlying the felony-murder rule.  FAP, ¶18(d).
              The Decision also was wrong whether Govt.
Code section 17556(g) precludes reimbursement under Penal Code section
1170.95.  FAP, ¶¶ 21-22.  The obligation to require post-conviction
proceedings is separate from the amendments to Penal Code sections 188 and
189.  FAP, ¶22(a).  The legislative analysis for SB 1437
acknowledged that requiring the participation of district attorneys and public defenders
in this process imposes a state-mandated local program.  FAP, ¶22(b). 
To the extent that Govt. Code section 17556(g) applies, it only does so
for the portion of a statute directly relating to the enforcement of the crime
or infraction, not Penal Code section 1170.95’s addition of a post-conviction
proceeding.  FAP, ¶22(c).  
            Even
if arguendo Govt. Code section 17556(g) applies, it unconstitutionally precludes
reimbursement of costs to which the County is entitled under art. XIII.B,
section 6.  FAP, ¶¶ 26(a), (f).  That constitutional provision entitles a
local government to reimbursement when the Legislature mandates a new program
or higher level of service, but legislation defining a new crime or “changing
an existing definition of a crime” is exempt. 
FAP, ¶26(b).  Govt. Code section
17556(g) exempts reimbursement for costs arising when a statute “eliminated a
crime” or “changed the penalty” for the crime. 
FAP, ¶26(c).  These two terms do
not mean the same thing as “changing an existing definition of a crime.”  FAP, ¶26(d). 
The Legislature exceeded its authority by enacting Govt. Code section
17556(g) to exempt costs beyond those exempt under Cal. Const. Art. XIII.B
section 6.  FAP, ¶26(e).
 
            c.
Prayer for Relief
            The
County seeks a writ of mandate compelling the Commission to set aside the
Decision and issue a new decision finding that SB 1437 imposes reimbursable costs.  The County also seeks an award of attorney’s
fees and costs.  FAP Prayer for Relief,
¶¶ 1-2.
 
            2.
Course of Proceedings
            On
December 6, 2023, the County served the Commission with the Petition.
            On
December 15, 2023, the County filed the FAP and served the Commission by
electronic mail.
            On
December 20, 2023, the County served the Finance with the FAP.
 
B. Applicable Law
            A demurrer
tests the legal sufficiency of the pleading alone and will be sustained where
the pleading is defective on its face. 
            Where
pleadings are defective, a party may raise the defect by way of a demurrer or
motion to strike or by motion for judgment on the pleadings.  CCP
§430.30(a); Coyne v. Krempels, (1950) 36 Cal.2d 257.  The party
against whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may object by
demurrer or answer to the pleading.  CCP §430.10.  A demurrer is
timely filed within the 30-day period after service of the complaint.  CCP
§ 430.40; Skrbina v. Fleming Companies, (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1353,
1364. 
            A demurrer
may be asserted on any one or more of the following grounds: (a) The court has
no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading;
(b) The person who filed the pleading does not have legal capacity to sue; (c)
There is another action pending between the same parties on the same cause of
action; (d) There is a defect or misjoinder of parties; (e) The pleading does
not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action; (f) The pleading is
uncertain (“uncertain” includes ambiguous and unintelligible); (g) In an action
founded upon a contract, it cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the
contract is written, is oral, or is implied by conduct; (h) No certificate was
filed as required by CCP §411.35 or (i) by §411.36.  CCP §430.10. 
Accordingly, a demurrer tests the sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds
for a demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from judicially
noticeable matters.  CCP §430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan, (“Blank”)
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.  The face of the pleading includes attachments
and incorporations by reference (Frantz v. Blackwell, (1987) 189
Cal.App.3d 91, 94); it does not include inadmissible hearsay.  Day v.
Sharp, (1975) 50 Cal.App.3d 904, 914.   
            The sole
issue on demurrer for failure to state a cause of action is whether the facts
pleaded, if true, would entitle the plaintiff to relief.  Garcetti v.
Superior Court, (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1533, 1547; Limandri v. Judkins,
(1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 339.  The question of plaintiff’s ability to
prove the allegations of the complaint or the possible difficulty in making
such proof does not concern the reviewing court.  Quelimane Co. v.
Stewart Title Guaranty Co., (1998) 19 Cal.4th 26, 47.  The ultimate
facts alleged in the complaint must be deemed true, as well as all facts that
may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged.  Marshall v.
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1397, 1403. 
Nevertheless, this rule does not apply to allegations expressing mere
conclusions of law, or allegations contradicted by the exhibits to the
complaint or by matters of which judicial notice may be taken.  Vance
v. Villa Park Mobilehome Estates, (“Vance”) (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th
698, 709. 
            For all
demurrers filed after January 1, 2016, the demurring party must meet and confer
in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading for the purpose
of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.  CCP §430.31(a).  As part of
the meet and confer process, the demurring party must identify all of the
specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and provide
legal support for the claimed deficiencies.  CCP §430.31(a)(1).  The
party who filed the pleading must in turn provide legal support for its
position that the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative, how
the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any legal
insufficiency.  Id.  The demurring party is responsible for
filing and serving a declaration that the meet and confer requirement has been
met.  CCP §430.31(a)(3).
            “[A] demurrer based on a statute of limitations
will not lie where the action may be, but is not necessarily, barred.
[Citation.] In order for the bar of the statute of limitations
to be raised by demurrer, the defect must clearly and affirmatively appear on
the face of the complaint; it is not enough that the complaint shows that the
action may be barred.” State ex rel. Metz v. CCC Information Services, Inc.,
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 402, 413. 
            If a demurrer is sustained, the court may
grant leave to amend the pleading upon any terms as may be just and shall fix
the time within which the amendment or amended pleading shall be filed.  CCP
§472a(c).  It is an abuse of discretion to grant a motion for judgment
on the pleadings without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility
that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action.  Dudley v. Finance
of Transportation (“Dudley”) (2001), 90 Cal. App. 4th 255, 260.  However, in response to a demurrer and prior to the case
being at issue, a complaint or cross-complaint shall not be amended more than
three times, absent an offer to the trial court as to such additional facts to
be pleaded that there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured to
state a cause of action.  CCP
§430.41(e)(1).
 
            C.
Analysis[1]
            Respondent
Commission and Real Party Finance separately demur to the FAP based on the
County’s failure to timely name the Finance as Real Party.[2]  
 
            1.
Applicable Law
            Art. XIII.B, section 6
provides that, when the Legislature or a state agency mandates a new program or
higher level of service on any local government, the state shall provide a
subvention of funds to reimburse that local government for the costs of that
program or higher level of service.
The Commission is a quasi-judicial body
which acts to resolve disputes that arise between the state and local agencies
under art. XIII.B, section 6.  Govt. Code
§17500.  It is the state agency charged
with determining the existence of a state mandate and whether a local
government is entitled to a subvention of funds for that mandate.  Govt. Code §17551.   The Commission is composed of seven members:
the Controller, the Treasurer, the Director of Finance (“Finance Director”),
the Director of the Office of Planning and Research, a public member with
experience in public finance, and two members among specific groups who are appointed
by the Governor and approved by the Senate. 
Govt. Code §17525(a).
            Finance has general powers of
supervision over all matters concerning the financial and business policies of
the state.  Govt. Code §13070.  It is the primary agency responsible for
administration of the state’s finances, fiscal policy, and conservation of
state funds.  Redevelopment Agency v.
Commission on State Mandates, (“Redevelopment Agency”) (1996) 43
Cal. App. 4th 1188, 1197.  Finance is
authorized to institute proceedings deemed proper to conserve the rights and
interests of the state.  Govt. Code §13070.
The Commission shall hear any claim by a
local agency that it is entitled to be reimbursed by the state for costs
mandated by the state as required by art. XIII.B, section 6.  Govt. Code §17551.  The Commission procedure for test claims must
provide for presentation of evidence by the claimant, Finance, any other
affected department or agency, and any other interested person.  Govt. Code §17553(a)(1).  A “test claim” is the first claim filed with
the Commission that a particular statute or executive order imposes costs
mandated by the state.  Govt. Code
§17521.  A “party to a test claim”
includes the test claimant, Finance, and other affected state agencies.  Title 2, California Code of Regulations (“2
CCR”) §11181.2(l)(1).  
The effective date of the Commission’s
decision is the date it is first mailed or served.   2 CCR §1187.11(a).  Within 30 days of a decision, the Commission
must provide notice of its decision to Finance, the appropriate Senate and
Assembly policy and fiscal committees, the Legislative Analyst, and the
Controller.  Govt. Code §17555(a).  
A claimant or the state may commence an
administrative mandamus proceeding to set aside a Commission decision for lack
of substantial evidence.  Govt. Code
§17559(b).  
 
            2. Finance Is a Real
Party-in-Interest
            In a mandamus action, the
application shall be accompanied by proof of service of it upon the respondent
and the real party-in-interest named in such application.  CCP §1107. 
A real party-in-interest is any person or entity whose interest will be
directly affected by the proceeding.  Redevelopment
Agency, supra, 43 Cal. App. 4th at 1197.  This includes an entity in whose favor the
act complained of operates.  Id.  
The Commission notes that Finance was a
party to the County’s administrative test claim.  The Commission was required to give proper
notice of claims to Finance along with any other affected state agency.  Govt. Code §§ 17553(a)(1), 17555; 2 CCR
§1181.2(l)(1).  Moreover, either the
County or Finance could have sought judicial review of the Commission’s
Decision.  Govt. Code §17559.  As a result, Finance should have been named
by the County as a real party-in-interest in this administrative mandamus
action.  Yet, the County failed to name
and serve Finance in the Petition until the FAP was filed on December 9, 2023.  Comm. Dem. at 6.  
            The County disputes that Finance should
be a Real Party-in-Interest.  Opp.[3] at 9, n. 4.  The County argues
that Finance is identified as a party, not a real party-in-interest, in Govt.
Code section 17553(a), which concerns the Commission’s test claim procedure.  It is entitled to receive notice of
Commission decisions pursuant to Govt. Code section 17559(a), but again is not
identified as a real party-in-interest.  Finally,
it is a party to a test claim under 2 CCR section 1181.2(1)(l), but again not a
real party-in-interest.  The County notes
that, although the cited statutes and regulations identify several other entities
as interested parties, the Commission does not argue that they are real
parties-in-interest.  Opp. at 8.  
            This argument is spurious.  The parties to an administrative proceeding almost
categorically are entitled to participate in a judicial administrative mandamus
action reviewing that decision.  The fact
that Finance was a party to the test claim case shows that its interest will be
directly affected by the County’s mandamus proceeding and therefore is a real
party-in-interest.
 
            3. The Statute of Limitations
Passed for Finance and Does Not Relate Back
            The
effective date of the Commission’s decision is
the date it is first mailed or served.  
2 CCR §1187.11(a).  The Decision
was served on December 9, 2020.  Dec., p.
1.  The County filed the Petition on
November 30, 2023, naming the Commission as Respondent but not naming any “Does”
or Finance as Respondents or Real Parties-in-Interest.  An action upon a liability created by
statute, other than a penalty or forfeiture, has a three-year statute of
limitations.  CCP §338(a).  The FAP added Finance as Real Party-in-Interest
six days after the three-year statute of limitations passed.
To avoid the limitation passage, the County
asserts that its December 9, 2023 addition of Finance as Real Party-in-Interest
in the FAP relates back to the November 30, 2023 filing of the Petition, making
it timely. Opp. at 6.  
When the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a defendant, he
must state that in the complaint and, when his true name is discovered, the
pleading must be amended accordingly.  
CCP §474.  Such an amendment
relates back to the commencement of the action for statute of limitations
purposes.  See Smeltzley v.
Nicholson Mfg. Co., (1977) 18 Cal.3d 932, 935.  An amended complaint relates back to the timely
filed complaint and avoids passage of the statute of limitations if it rests on
the same general set of facts and same injuries as the original
complaint.  Barrington v. A.H. Robins Co., (1985) 39
Cal.App.3d 146, 151.  The requirements for relation back are mandatory,
including that the original complaint must name Doe defendants, allege that the
plaintiff is ignorant of the true name and capacity of each Doe defendant, and
allege a valid cause of action against the Doe. 
See Eghtesad v. State Farm General Insurance Co., (2020)
51 Cal.App.5th 406, 415.  
The
County did not include any Doe defendants in the Petition and cannot rely on
the relation back doctrine for Finance as Real Party-in-Interest.  See Kerr-McGee Chemical Corp. v.
Superior Court, (1984) 160 Cal.App.3d 594, 599.
The County relies on Cloud v. Northrop
Grumman Corp. (“Cloud”) (1998), 67 Cal. App. 4th 995.  Opp. at 6. 

In Cloud, 998-99, a plaintiff who
initially had standing to sue her former employer for wrongful termination and
sexual harassment lost standing when she Chapter 7 bankruptcy and the
bankruptcy trustee held her claim as the real party-in-interest.  The plaintiff did not know these claims were
legally related to her bankruptcy petition. 
Id. at 999-1000.  She was
later advised that she could amend her bankruptcy filings to schedule her claim
against her employer.  Id. at 1000. 
The trial court granted a motion for judgment on the pleadings
without leave to amend based on her lack of standing.  Id. 

            The appellate court held that the
trial court should have granted leave to amend the complaint to either substitute
in the bankruptcy trustee as real party-in-interest or to obtain the trustee’s
abandonment of the claim.  Id.  The court cited Garrison v. Board of
Directors (1995) 36 Cal. App. 4th 1670, 1678, for the legal proposition that
when suit is brought by a plaintiff without a right to sue, although the complaint
fails to state a cause of action in the plaintiff, an amended complaint
by the right party restates the identical cause of action and is freely allowed.  Id. 
at 1004-05.  Cloud cited Klopstock
v. Superior Court, (“Klopstock”) (1941), 17 Cal. 2d 13, 19-22, as
holding that if the facts of the cause of action against the defendant would
not be “wholly different” after amendment, a complaint filed by a party without
standing may be amended to substitute in the plaintiff as real party-in-interest.  Id. at 1005.  
In Klopstock, supra, 17 Cal.
2d at 16, the California Supreme Court considered an amendment substituting the
newly appointed administratrix of the estate as plaintiff.  The court rejected the argument that this
substitution was an entirely new suit and cause of action, therefore exceeding
the proper scope of an amendment.  17
Cal.3d at 16.  The amendment simply
substituted the real party-in-interest in place of a party who lacked
standing.  Id. at 21.  Whether an amendment introduced a wholly new
cause of action does not depend on technical considerations or ancient formulae,
but on whether a defendant would need to answer a wholly different legal
liability or obligation from that originally stated.  Id. at 20.  Despite the amendment at issue, the defendant
was still fully apprised of the relevant facts as of the original
complaint.  Id. at 21.  This was consistent with case law allowing
amendments substituting a real party-in-interest for the original plaintiff to
relate back to the original complaint.  Id.
at 21-22.
            The recent case of River’s Side
at Washington Square Homeowner’s Assn. v. Superior Court, (2023) 88
Cal.App.5th 1209, explained that Klopstock, Cloud, and
other similar cases have made clear that a named plaintiff’s lack of standing at
the beginning of an action is not necessarily fatal to continuing the
action.  Id. at 1239.  CCP section 473(a)(1) permits amendment of a
pleading by correcting the name of a party and must be liberally construed to
permit such an amendment.  Id.  “Courts have permitted plaintiffs who have
been determined to lack standing, or who have lost standing after the complaint
was filed, to substitute as plaintiffs the true real parties in interest.”  Brankik v. Downey Savings & Loan Assn.,
(2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 243.  Id.
at 1240.  An amendment that changes
nothing other than the identity of the plaintiff would clearly pass the modern
“same general set of facts” test for relation back.  Id. (permitting amendment of plaintiff
to the assignee of homeowners’ members).
            As the demurring parties note, this
case law on relation back for plaintiffs is inapposite.  Comm. Reply at 4; Dept. Dem. at 10.  The amendment of a complaint to substitute a
plaintiff so long as it rests on the same general set of facts and refers to
the same accident or injuries differs from an amendment to add a defendant, if
only because there is no pleading mechanism recognized in case law to allege
Doe plaintiffs.  The issue here is
whether an amendment adding a real party-in-interest relates back to the original
petition.  It does not because, unlike
the doctrine concerning amendment to add a real party-in-interest plaintiff, a
real party-in-interest defendant has no prior notice of the action. As the
Commission argues, allowing an amendment to relate back when adding a new
adverse party prejudicially subjects that new party to liability or, in this
case, an adverse decision.  Comm. Reply
at 4.[4] 
            The County argues that this
distinction ignores the general policy that courts should liberally grant leave
to amend a petition as to dispose of a case on its merits.  Cloud, supra, 67 Cal. App. 4th
at 1007.  Opp. at 6.  That liberal policy is not unfettered by
reasonable requirements.  Woo v. Superior Court, (1999) 75 Cal. App. 4th 169, 176.  The failure to provide an adverse real
party-in-interest with timely notice is unreasonable while substitution of a
plaintiff is not.  
The County argues that Finance received
notice of the Petition because the Finance Director is a member of the
Commission.  Opp. at 5.  Even if the Finance Director had actual
knowledge of the Petition, the addition of Finance as Real Party would not
relate back for statute of limitations purposes because it must be based on
allegations of a Doe defendant in the original Petition.  Additionally. the constitutional guarantee of
due process requires more than actual notice conforming to the statutory
requirements; there must be service of process conferring personal jurisdiction.  Ursino v. Superior Court, (1974) 39
Cal. App. 3d 611, 617.  Comm. Reply at
5.  The County never named or served Finance
until the FAP and the County cannot relate back its addition of Finance
as a Real Party.  The action is untimely as
to Finance and its demurrer is sustained.
 
            4.
Finance Is a Necessary Party
            CCP
section 389(a) defines the persons who should be joined if possible, known as
“necessary parties.”  A party is
necessary if (1) in his absence complete relief cannot be accorded among those
already parties or (2) he claims an interest relating to the subject of the
action and is so situated that the disposition of the action in his absence may
(i) as a practical matter impair or impede his ability to protect that interest
or (ii) leave any of the persons already parties subject to a substantial risk
of incurring double, multiple, or otherwise inconsistent obligations by reason
of his claimed interest.  CCP
§389(a).  A determination that a party is
necessary is a predicate for the determination whether the party is also
indispensable.  County of Imperial v.
Superior Court, (“Imperial”) (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 13, 26.
            As
stated, Finance has general powers of supervision over all
matters concerning the financial and business policies of the state.  Govt. Code §13070.  It is the primary agency responsible for
administration of the state’s finances, fiscal policy, and conservation of
state funds.  Redevelopment Agency,
supra, 43 Cal. App. 4th at 1197.  It
is authorized to institute proceedings deemed proper to conserve the rights and
interests of the State.  Govt. Code
§13070.  Finance participates in and
presents evidence as a party in a test claim before the Commission.  Govt. Code §17553(a)(1); 2 CCR
§11181.2(l)(1).  It further is entitled
to notice of the Commission’s decision and was entitled to seek review of the
Commission’s Decision.  Govt. Code
§17559.  
The Commission argues that Finance argues is a necessary
party to the County’s action to vacate the Decision, which held the State does
not need to reimburse local governments for expenses incurred under SB 1437.  Comm. Dem. at 12.  The fact that Finance is a proper Real Party
means that it qualifies as a necessary party, and the County does not dispute
its necessary party status.
            
            5.
Finance Is an Indispensable Party
            CCP
section 389(b) provides: “If a person as described in paragraph (1) or (2) of
subdivision (a) cannot be made a party, the court shall determine whether in
equity and good conscience the action should proceed among the parties before
it, or should be dismissed without prejudice, the absent person being thus
regarded as indispensable.  The factors
to be considered by the court include: (1) to what extent a judgment rendered
in the person’s absence might be prejudicial to him or those already parties;
(2) the extent to which, by protective provisions in the judgment, by the
shaping of relief, or other measures, the prejudice can be lessened or avoided;
(3) whether a judgment rendered in the person’s absence will be adequate; (4)
whether the plaintiff or cross-complainant will have an adequate remedy if the
action is dismissed for nonjoinder.”
            Failure
to join an indispensable party is not a jurisdictional defect in the
fundamental sense of jurisdiction.  The
court has the power to render a decision as to the parties before it in the
absence of an indispensable party.  It is
for reasons of equity and convenience only that a court will not proceed with a
case where it determines that an indispensable party is absent and cannot be
joined. Save Our Bay, Inc. v. San Diego Unified Port District, (“Save
Our Bay”) (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 686, 693.
            The controlling test for whether a
necessary party is also indispensable under CCP section 389(b) is whether “the
plaintiff seeks some type of affirmative relief which, if granted, would injure
or affect the interest of a third person not joined.  Save Our Bay, supra, 42
Cal.App.4th at 692.  In other words, a
third party is indispensable if his or her rights must necessarily be affected by
the judgment.  Id.  Each of the four factors in subdivision (b)
must be considered, but “no factor is determinative or necessarily more
persuasive than another.”  Imperial,
supra, 152 Cal.App. 4th at 35.
            The parties debate the import of Redevelopment
Agency, supra, 43 Cal. App. 4th at 1197, in which the court
addressed Finance’s attempt to intervene in an administrative mandamus case
filed by a local agency against the Commission for denial of subvention from
state funds of housing costs incurred by the agency.  Id. at 1192.  After reviewing the statutory scheme for
state mandate determinations, the court held that Finance was a real
party-in-interest whose joinder in the action against the Commission was indispensable
under CCP section 389(a).  Id. at
1197.  In light of Finance’s right to
notice and participation in the Commission’s administrative proceeding and its
duty to supervise the financial policies of the state, the subvention of funds
to the petitioner would “certainly injure or affect the interests of
[Finance].”  Id.  It should have been named as a real
part-in-interest and was an indispensable party under CCP section 389(a).  Id. 

The County distinguishes Redevelopment Agency as a case
concerning intervention under CCP section 387(a), not whether Finance was an
indispensable party under CCP section 389(a). 
While Redevelopment Agency stated in passing that Finance was
indispensable to the action, its analysis focused on whether Finance was a
necessary party under CCP section 389(a), not whether it was indispensable
under CCP section 389(b).  Opp. at 14.  
The court agrees that Redevelopment Agency is factually distinguishable
as addressing intervention under CCP section 387(a) and that its analysis of
Finance’s indispensable party status focused on whether it was a necessary
party without addressing the CCP section 389(b) factors.   However, courts have noted that mandatory intervention
and indispensable party have virtually the same criteria.  Carlsbad Police Officers Assn. v. City of
Carlsbad (“Carlsbad”) (2020), 49 Cal. App. 5th 135, 148.  
In any event, the court agrees with Redevelopment Agency that
Finance is an indispensable party to the County’s action against the
Commission.
 
            a.
Prejudice to Finance
            The
first factor in CCP section 389(b) is the extent to which a judgment rendered
in Finance’s absence might be prejudicial to it or those already parties.  Obviously, a judgment reversing the
Commission’s Decision would prejudice Finance’s interests as steward of the
state’s finances.  See Finance
Reply at 7.
            The
County argues that there would be no prejudice to the Finance if the court
proceeded without it because the Commission and Finance have a unity of
interest and Commission will protect that interest.  Finance is an agency of the state and so is
the Commission.[5]  While the Commission is charged with
considering both the state’s and the County’s concerns, it adopted Finance’s
legal position that reimbursement should be denied to the County “because SB
1437 is subject to Government Code §17556(g), ‘the crimes and infractions’ exclusion…Accordingly…SB
1437 does not impose costs mandated by the state.”  FAP, Ex. A, p. 19.  As a result, the Commission is defending Finance’s
position in this case.  Because the
Commission is defending Finance’s position, there is not just a unity of
interest, but an identical unity of interest.  Opp. at 10-11.
The County cites Save Berkeley’s
Neighborhoods v. Regents of University of California (“Neighborhoods”),
70 Cal.App.5th 705, 722, as holding that, even when parties’ motivations
differ, they can have sufficiently aligned interests such that the absent party’s
rights necessarily will not be affected or impaired by the judgment or
proceeding.  Opp. at 11.  
            Neighborhoods
was a CEQA action where the Regents approved a new development, certified a supplemental
environmental impact report, and identified the developers in its notice of
determination.  70 Cal.App.5th at
711-12.  The petitioner named the Regents
as a respondent in a petition for a writ of mandate but did not add the
developers as real parties-in-interest until after the statute of limitations
had passed.  Id. at 712.  The developers demurred that they were
necessary and indispensable parties, arguing that, while the Regents’ interest
was to add academic space and housing, their interests were to develop, build,
manage, and operate the project.  Id.
at 721.
            The
appellate court conceded that developers of property are often indispensable
parties in CEQA actions.  Id.  It also conceded that the Regents and the developers
had different motivations for development. 
Id. at 722.  However, they had
a strong unity of interest.  Id.  Like the developers, the Regents had an
interest in the project’s timely completion to both support the Goldman School
of Public Policy and address housing concerns. 
Id.  The Regents and the
developers also would manage different parts of the completed project, with the
Regents regaining full ownership after the project debt was repaid.  Id. 
The court therefore could not say that the trial court abused its
discretion in finding that the developers were not indispensable parties.  Id. at 724.  
The County also relies on Deltakeeper
v. Oakdale Irrigation Dist., (“Deltakeeper”) (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th
1092.  Opp. at 11.
In Deltakeeper, CEQA
compliance was a precondition to enforcement of a water transfer agreement and
the court considered the adequacy of an environmental impact report (“EIR”).  Id. at 1102.  Three named defendants sought to uphold the
EIR to satisfy the precondition and obtain the benefits of the water transfer
agreement.  Id.   The
respondents argued that a fourth unnamed party did not have the same interests as
the other three because it did not have the same rights under the
agreement.  Id.  The court held that the fourth party wanted
the EIR validated as a precondition to the agreement, and its interests for the
CEQA action were still aligned with the other three.  Id. at 1102-03.  The fact that they had different interests in
the transfer of water under the agreement did not mean they had different interests
in the CEQA litigation.  Id. at
1103.  
            In
general, the Commission has different interests than Finance.  The Commission is a quasi-adjudicative body
whose interests lie in upholding its decision and reasoning, protecting its
procedural handling of the matter, and supporting the proper interpretation of
its promulgating authority.  It is not
directly affected by a judgment in favor of the County and merely faces the
prospect of the burden of a new hearing if ordered by the court.  Govt. Code §17559(b).  Finance’s interests lie in protecting the Commission’s
decision on the mandate issue at hand. 
They are not the same.  See Finance
Reply at 7-8.  
The court agrees with the County that
when the Commission adopts the claimant’s position in its decision and decides
to defend the administrative mandamus action as respondent, the Commission is generally
aligned with the winning party below.  This
general alignment does not make a unity of interests, however.  The Commission seeks to defend its Decision
in its capacity as the issuing adjudicatory body.  Finance’s interest is in protecting the
state’s financial and budgetary matters. 
See Redevelopment Agency, supra, 43 Cal. App. 4th at
1192, 1195.  The Commission has no
interest in protecting the state’s budget or in distributing funds to local
agencies.  The Commission’s and Finance’s
differing roles mean that, while they both would defend the Commission’s
decision, they cannot be expected to defend it in the same way.  As Finance argues, it has no power to control
the Commission’s litigation strategy.  Finance
Reply at 11.
The Commission correctly notes that the
unity of interests in the cited cases was stronger than here.  Comm. Reply at 7-8.  In Neighborhoods, supra, 70 Cal.App.5th
at 722, both the Regents and the developers had an interest in the prompt
completion of the new structures, which they would both own.  In Deltakeeper, supra, 94
Cal.App.4th at 1102-03, the parties all wanted to defend the EIR so that the contract
remained enforceable, even if their rights under that contract would then
differ.  The parties did not have
completely different roles such that they may defend the case differently.
            While
the interests of the Commission and Finance are generally aligned in defending
this matter, Finance may suffer prejudice if the case were to proceed without
it because it cannot rely on the Commission to take the same approach as it
would.  Moreover, a court decision in the
County’s favor would invoke Finance’s right to a collateral attack, which could
prove procedurally difficult.  See
post.
 
            b.
Protective Measures to Avoid Prejudice
            The
second factor in CCP section 389(b) considers whether protective provisions in
the judgment can ameliorate or eradicate prejudice to Finance.
            The
County argues that Finance can participate in future Commission proceedings if
this court reverses and remands the Decision, thereby minimizing any prejudice.  Opp. at 13. 
            This would
be true only if the court remanded for further Commission proceedings.  As the Finance notes, it would have no
participation if the court grants the County’s claim that costs incurred under
SB 1437 are reimbursable.  Finance Reply
at 9.  The Commission further explains
that the court’s decision whether there is a reimbursable state-mandated
program at issue in this case is purely a question of law for which there is no
prospect of remand.  Comm. Reply at 8, n.
2.
            There
are no protective measures to mitigate the prejudice Finance would face if this
action were to proceed without it.  
 
            c.
Whether the Court’s Decision Would be Adequate 
            The
third factor in CCP section 389(b)(3) requires the court to consider whether a
judgment entered in the absence of Finance would be adequate.  “The test for determining the ability to
protect an absent party’s interest is whether existing and absent parties’
interests are sufficiently aligned that the absent party’s right necessarily will
not be affected or impaired by the judgment or proceeding.”  See also Imperial, 152
Cal.App.4th at 38.  
            The
County asserts that the court’s decision in Finance’s absence will be adequate
because it will only answer a straightforward question whether Govt. Code
section 17556(g) bars reimbursement for costs incurred under SB 1437.  Finance can still argue why the court should
say it does, just as it did before the Commission.  Opp. at 13. 

            The
County glosses over the manner in which Finance would make that argument.   As both demurrers argue, an indispensable
party is not bound by a judgment in an action in which he was not joined.  Save Our Bay, supra, 42 Cal.
App. 4th at 693.  Any decision is
therefore inadequate because it is subject to later collateral attack by the
non-joined indispensable party, free from issue of claim preclusion.  Id. 
If this case proceeded without it, Finance could challenge the court’s mandamus
decision via a new lawsuit.  Comm. Dem.
at 10; Finance Dem. at 15.  
            The
County responds that this risk is absent because proceedings before the
Commission are the exclusive means for determining the state’s obligations
under art. XIII.B, section 6.  Govt. Code
§§ 17550, 17552.  If the Finance is
dissatisfied with the court’s decision, it can seek review after remand to the
Commission.  Opp. at 14.  
            The
County’s argument proves the inadequacy of a judgment without Finance and
underscores the prejudice to it.  As
discussed ante, there will not be a remand to the Commission for further
proceedings.  Because Finance would not
be bound by any judgment, it would have the right to challenge the decision collaterally.  The manner in which Finance could do so is
unclear, but the right remains, and it could lead to two inconsistent decisions
by two different courts.  Comm. Reply at
9.
            The
court’s decision in Finance’s absence would be inadequate.
 
            d.
Adequate Alternate Remedy for the County
            The
fourth factor in CCP section 389(b)(3) is whether the plaintiff or cross-complainant
will have an adequate remedy if the action is dismissed for nonjoinder.  
The County argues that it will not have
an alternative remedy because this action is the only way it can contest the
Decision.  Opp. at 14.  
            This
is correct.  However, as the replies
note, the lack of an available remedy is an unavoidable result in any case
where an indispensable party is not joined and the limitations period has run.  Save Our Bay, supra, 42 Cal.
App. 4th at 699.  Comm. Reply a 10; Dept.
Reply at 12.  The County had three years
to bring this action against all necessary and indispensable parties.  CCP §338(a).  Its failure to do so is a situation of its
own making, and the County cannot now rely on it as a reason to avoid dismissal.
 
e. Conclusion
            Based
on the four factors in CCP section 389(b), Finance is an indispensable
party to this action and the Commission’s demurrer is be sustained.  
 
            3.
Leave to Amend
            If
a demurrer is sustained, the court may grant leave to amend the pleading upon
any terms as may be just and shall fix the time within which the amendment or
amended pleading shall be filed.  CCP §472a(c).  It is an abuse of discretion to grant a
motion for judgment on the pleadings without leave to amend if there is any
reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of
action.  Dudley, supra, 90 Cal. App. 4th at 260. 
            The County asks for
leave to amend so it can add allegations why Finance is not an indispensable party,
including the fact that the Commission fully represents the Finance’s interests
before this court, both are state agencies, and the state’s interests will not be
prejudiced by Finance’s absence.  Opp. at
15.
            These are conclusions of law, not allegations of fact that the court would
accept as true if added to the FAP.  See Vance, supra, 36 Cal.App.4th at 709.  They also are the same legal arguments the
County made in opposition to the demurrers. 
The County fails to identify specific facts that could lead the court to
a different conclusion if added to the FAP and leave to amend is denied.
 
            E. Conclusion
            The demurrers to the
Petition are sustained without leave to amend. 
An
OSC re: dismissal is set for April 4, 2024 at 9:30 a.m.


