 Case Number:  23VECV04593    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



ANDI YACO,
                    Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
JAGUAR LAND ROVER WOODLAND HILLS; TD AUTO FINANCE; AUTO
  NATION; AMIR MANSOUR; ERIK VANDER MEULEN; and DOES
  1 through 10, inclusive,
 
                    Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.: 23VECV04593
 
 
ORDER
  GRANTING DEFENDANT AUTONATION’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT



 
I.              
BACKGROUND 
This case
arises out of Plaintiff Andi Yaco’s (“Plaintiff”) purchase and financing of a
2018 Range Rover (“Vehicle”) from Defendant Jaguar Land Rover Woodland Hills
(“Jaguar”). (See First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), ¶ 11.) Plaintiff alleges Jaguar and Defendants TD Bank, National Association
[erroneously sued as TD Auto Finance], Amir Mansour, Erik Vander Meulen, and
AutoNation (collectively, “Defendants”) demanded he obtain financing through
Defendants despite Plaintiff obtaining financing on his own; as a result,
Plaintiff alleges he is being billed twice for the same loan. (See FAC, ¶¶
14-18.) 
AutoNation now
moves for summary judgment.
II.           
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On October
13, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Complaint, alleging (1) Intentional
Misrepresentation; (2) Negligent Misrepresentation; (3) Violation of Consumers
Legal Remedies Act – Injunctive Relief; and (4) Unfair Competition (Bus. &
Prof. Code Sections 17200).
On October
24, 2023, Plaintiff filed a FAC, alleging (1) Intentional Misrepresentation; (2)
Negligent Misrepresentation; (3) Violation of Consumers Legal Remedies Act –
Injunctive Relief; and (4) Unfair Competition (Bus. & Prof. Code Sections
17200).
On January 8,
2024, Defendant TD Bank, National Association filed its Answer. 
On February
28, 2024, Plaintiff served his FAC on AutoNation. 
On March 14,
2024, Defendant Amir Mansour filed his Answer. 
On May 8,
2024, Jaguar filed its Answer. 
On May 20,
2024, AutoNation filed the instant Motion for Summary Judgment (“Motion”).
On August 15,
2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s request for a continuance of the hearing on
AutoNation’s Motion to allow Plaintiff to conduct discovery.
On October
16, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel AutoNation’s Further
Responses to his Request for Production. 
On November
18, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Opposition to the Motion. 
On December
6, 2024, AutoNation filed its Reply. 
III.        
LEGAL STANDARD
The function
of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as
to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or
claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (See
Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) In
analyzing such motions, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify
the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has
negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has
demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) Thus, summary
judgment or summary adjudication is granted when, after the Court’s
consideration of the evidence set forth in the papers and all reasonable
inferences accordingly, no triable issues of fact exist, and the moving party
is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (See Code of Civ. Proc. § 437c(c) [1]; Villa
v. McFarren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 741.) 
As to each
claim as framed by the complaint, the party moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting
facts to negate or establish an essential element. (See Scalf v. D.B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v.
Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39
Cal.4th 384, 389.) A motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
be denied where the moving party’s evidence does not prove all material facts,
even in the absence of any opposition or where the opposition is weak. (See
Leyva v. Superior Court (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 462, 475; Salesguevara v.
Wyeth Labs., Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 379, 384 & 387.) When a
plaintiff is the moving party, the plaintiff has a higher burden: it must “present
evidence that would require a reasonable trier of fact to find any underlying
material fact more likely than not.” (See Aguilar, 25
Cal.4th at 845 (emphasis added).) “The burden of the moving party is to persuade
the court that there is no material fact for a reasonable trier of fact to find.”
(PP Mortgage, Ltd. v. Bizar (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 773, 776 (emphasis in
original) (cleaned up).) 
Once the
moving party has met its burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party to
show via specific facts that a triable issue of material fact exists to a cause
of action or a defense thereto. (See Code of Civ. Proc. § 437c(o)(2).)
IV.         
ANALYSIS
A.            
Evidentiary Objections 
The Court
OVERRULES all of Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections to AutoNation’s Separate
Statement Statements of Material Fact.[2] 
The Court
SUSTAINS AutoNation’s evidentiary objections Nos. 1-8 but OVERRULES Nos. 9-19. 
B.            
Undisputed Material Facts
AutoNation is a is a publicly traded
Delaware corporation that owns the shares of other holding companies, which in
turn own the shares of various automobile dealerships, other holding companies,
and other automotive companies, including Jaguar. (See Plaintiff’s Supplemental
Separate Statement of Disputed Facts (“UMF”) Nos. 1-2.)[3]
Jaguar is a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of AutoNation and has its own
federal tax identification number and its own bank accounts. (See UMF Nos.
14, 18.) AutoNation does not have any employees, is not an employer of Jaguar’s
employees, and does not supervise Jaguar’s employees. (See UMF Nos. 3, 6,
11, 15.) AutoNation does not provide any education, training or oversight to
Jaguar’s employees regarding Jaguar’s customer interactions. (See UMF
Nos. 16-17.) AutoNation does not operate any of the businesses it owns shares
in, including Jaguar, does not have any vehicle franchises, and does not
advertise, offer, list, sell, or lease vehicles. (See UMF Nos. 4-5, 7, 9-10.)
Day-to-day operational decisions are solely the responsibility of management at
Jaguar. (See UMF Nos. 12-13, 23.) AutoNation does not have any direct
communications with dealership customers and business decisions as to customer
financing or contracts for the sale of a vehicle are made by Jaguar. (See UMF
Nos. 8, 20-21.)
AutoNation took no part in the process,
handling or carrying out of Jaguar’s sale transaction with Plaintiff for the Vehicle.
(See UMF No. 22.) AutoNation did not decide which lender to utilize to
fund the loan for Plaintiff’s purchase of the Vehicle. (See UMF No. 24.)
AutoNation did not interact with Plaintiff, make any representations to him, or
enter into any contracts with him. (See UMF Nos. 25-30.)
C.            
No
Triable Issues of Material Fact Exist.
Two
general requirements must be met before the alter ego doctrine will be invoked:
(1) there must be such unity of interest and ownership that the separate
personalities of the corporation and the shareholder do not in reality exist,
and (2) the result will be inequitable if the acts are treated as those of the
corporation alone. (See Sonora Diamond Corp. v. Superior Court (2000) 83
Cal.App.4th 523, 538.) “The essence of the alter ego doctrine is not that the
individual shareholder becomes the corporation, but that the individual
shareholder is liable for the actions of the corporation. [Citation] For all
other purposes, the separate corporate existence remains [citation].” (See
Leek v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 399, 415.)
          “Among
the factors to be considered in applying the doctrine are commingling of funds
and other assets of the two entities, the holding out by one entity that it is
liable for the debts of the other, identical equitable ownership in the two
entities, use of the same offices and employees, and use of one as a mere shell
or conduit for the affairs of the other. Other factors include inadequate
capitalization, disregard of corporate formalities, lack of segregation of
corporate records, and identical directors and officers. No one characteristic
governs. The courts must look at the totality of the circumstances to determine
whether the doctrine should be applied. Alter ego is an extreme remedy which is
sparingly used. (See Sonora Diamond Corp., 83 Cal.App.4th at 538-539
(quotations and citations omitted).) 
Regarding the second prong, there must
be “some conduct amounting to bad faith [that] makes it inequitable for the
corporate owner to hide behind the corporate form.” (Sonora Diamond
Corp., 83 Cal.App.4th at 539.)   
AutoNation has submitted evidence
demonstrating it is not the alter ego of Jaguar. AutoNation has submitted
evidence Jaguar is a wholly owned indirect subsidiary of AutoNation and has its
own federal tax identification number and its own bank accounts. (See UMF
Nos. 14, 18.) AutoNation has submitted evidence it does not employ, supervise,
educate, or train Jaguar’s employees. (See UMF Nos. 3, 6, 11, 15-17.)
AutoNation has submitted evidence it does not in any way dictate the day-to-day
operations of Jaguar. (See UMF Nos. 12-13, 23.) AutoNation has also
submitted evidence it took no part in the process, handling or carrying out of Jaguar’s
sale transaction with Plaintiff for the Vehicle, did not decide which lender to
utilize to fund the loan for Plaintiff’s purchase of the Vehicle, and did not
interact with Plaintiff, make any representations to Plaintiff, or enter into
any contracts with Plaintiff. (See UMF Nos. 22-30.)
AutoNation has demonstrated it and
Jaguar are separate corporate entities. AutoNation has demonstrated it did not,
and does not, use Jaguar as a corporate shell or conduit for its affairs—AutoNation
is not involved in Jaguar’s day-to-day operations, including Jaguar’s customer
interactions and contractual arrangements. Critically, AutoNation has
demonstrated it did not do anything such that its bad faith conduct
would make it inequitable for it to hide behind Jaguar’s corporate form—Plaintiff
only alleges Jaguar (and its employees) acted, and that those acts should be
attributed to AutoNation. AutoNation has met is burden on summary judgment. The
burden now shifts to Plaintiff to prove there exists a triable issue of
material fact. 
Plaintiff cannot demonstrate a triable
issue of material fact. As an initial matter, Plaintiff makes no argument in
his opposition papers. He merely lists facts, cites law, and states “[t]he
facts set forth above, as more fully described in the attached declarations and
exhibits, clearly establish the unity of interest between AutoNation and its
Dealership.” (Opposition, pg. 9.) 
Ultimately, Plaintiff’s admissible
evidence in opposition consists of the following: (1) Plaintiff and his brother
were told by Jaguar employees that they were dealing with AutoNation and the
employees had an AutoNation email address; (2) Plaintiff and his brother saw
that the license plates on the other vehicles at Jaguar said AutoNation; (3) Plaintiff
was offered an AutoNation warranty; and (4) AutoNation, through its indirectly
owned subsidiaries, provides support to Jaguar in the form of non-discretionary
clerical tasks, professional services (such as accounting or information
technology), health insurance, certain financial oversight, and provides some
training and promotional materials. (See Decalration of Andi Yaco filed November
18, 2024; Declaration of Aram Yaco filed November 18, 2024; AutoNation’s
Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories.) 
Plaintiff’s submitted evidence simply does
not satisfy his burden of showing there is a triable issue of material fact as
to the first prong of the above test, requiring unity of interest and ownership,
or as to the second prong, requiring conduct amounting to bad faith. Plaintiff
asks this Court to conclude a wholly owned indirect subsidiary’s use of a
parent company’s branding and resources dissolves the corporate veil entirely,
such that the subsidiary and the parent company are one and the same. Plaintiff
therefore asks this Court to completely disregard foundational aspects of
corporate structure and liability without any evidence the equitable
owner (AutoNation) was involved in the alleged misrepresentations which form
the basis of his FAC. Such a result would not only be improper in this case but
would imply other parent companies can be held liable for the acts of their
independently managed subsidiaries, regardless of the parent companies’ level
of involvement and in the absence of the parent companies’ bad acts. The whole
purpose of the alter ego doctrine is to prevent said equitable owners from
using the corporate form to perpetrate bad acts. Plaintiff’s submitted evidence
fails to refute AutoNation’s contention that it is not involved in and does not
dictate Jaguar’s day-to-day operations. Plaintiff has not demonstrated a
triable issue of material fact as to AutoNation and Jaguar’s alter ego
relationship. 
Nor has Plaintiff demonstrated AutoNation
can be held liable via a theory of ostensible agency. “Ostensible authority is such as a principal,
intentionally or by want of ordinary care, causes or allows a third person to
believe the agent to possess.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2317.) However, “[b]efore
recovery can be had against the principal for the acts of an ostensible agent,
three requirements must be met: The person dealing with an agent must do so
with a reasonable belief in the agent’s authority, such belief must be
generated by some act or neglect by the principal sought to be charged, and the
person relying on the agent’s apparent authority must not be negligent in
holding that belief. Ostensible agency cannot be established by the
representations or conduct of the purported agent; the statements or acts of
the principal must be such as to cause the belief the agency exists.” (J.L.
v. Children’s Institute, Inc. (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 388,
403-404.)   
AutoNation
has demonstrated it did not make any statements or act in any way. And, as
discussed above, Plaintiff has not demonstrated AutoNation did so either.
Plaintiff has merely alleged AutoNation should be held liable for Jaguar’s
actions but hasn’t shown a triable issue of material fact as to ostensible
agency. 
Accordingly,
AutoNation’s Motion is GRANTED.
V.            
CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, the Court GRANTS AutoNation’s Motion for Summary Judgment. The Court
will sign the Proposed Order submitted with AutoNation’s Motion with the
appropriate edits that reflect the ruling contained herein.
          IT
IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:      January 22, 2025



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


