  Case Number:  23VECV03136    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  O  
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 



Mosey keyfman,
                    Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
WEST HILLS HOSPITAL DBA WEST
HILLS HOSPITAL MEDICAL CENTER AND DOES I -100,
  INCLUSIVE,
 
                    Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


    
  CASE NO.: 23VECV03136
 
ORDER
  GRANTING WEST HILLS HOSPITAL’S MOTION TO STRIKE



 


 
I.              
INTRODUCTION
On July
21, 2022, Plaintiff Moysey Keyfman (“Plaintiff”) was admitted to Defendant West
Hills Hospital (“West Hills”) and assigned to a 2-bed hospital room with
another patient who allegedly had Covid-19. Plaintiff alleges he was kept in
this room without any meaningful isolation protocols as required for his
safety. Five days later, Plaintiff tested positive for Covid-19, where he was
re-admitted to West Hills’ emergency room. Plaintiff alleges he suffered
respiratory and cardiac issues that were non-existent prior to his Covid-19
illness that was allegedly contracted during his hospitalization on July 21,
2022. Based on this set of facts, Plaintiff alleges one cause of action against
West Hills for Medical Malpractice. 
On October
11, 2024, the Court granted West Hills’ Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”) in part. 
On October
28, 2024, Plaintiff filed his Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) alleging one
cause of action for Medical Malpractice.
West Hills
now seeks to strike portions of Plaintiff’s TAC.
II.           
PROCEDURAL
HISTORY
On July 20, 2023,
Plaintiff filed his Complaint, alleging (1) Medical Malpractice, and (2) Elder
Abuse. 
On November
27, 2023, this Court overruled West Hills’ Demurrer as to the first cause of
action for medical malpractice but sustained with leave to amend its Demurrer
as to Plaintiff’s second cause of action for elder abuse. 
On December
6, 2023, Plaintiff filed his First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). 
On May 14,
2024, this Court sustained West Hills’ Demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC as to the
second cause of action for medical malpractice and denied West Hills’ Motion to
Strike.
On July 18,
2024, Plaintiff filed his SAC, alleging one cause of action for Medical Malpractice.

On October
11, 2024, the Court granted West Hills’ Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s SAC in
part (“Order”). 
On October
28, 2024, Plaintiff filed his TAC, alleging one cause of action for Medical Malpractice.
On December
2, 2024, West Hills filed the instant Motion to Strike (“Motion”). 
On January 7,
2025, Plaintiff filed his Opposition. 
On January
14, 2025, West Hills filed its Reply. 
III.        
LEGAL
STANDARD
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (See Code Civ. Proc. §
436(a).)
[1] The court may also strike all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court
rule, or an order of the court. (See id. at § 436(b).) The grounds for a
motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper
matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (See id.
at § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the
pleading or by way of judicial notice. (See id. at § 437.)
IV.         
ANALYSIS
In its
October 11, 2024, Order the Court granted West Hills’ Motion to Strike in part
and allowed Plaintiff leave to amend his SAC. (See Order.) Specifically,
the Court granted West Hills’ Motion to strike the following: “reckless and
willful” (SAC, pg. 2:13); “that at all times while Plaintiff jointly occupied
the hospital room with Patient-X, Patient-X was a known Covid 19 patient with
an active transmittable Covid-19 infection, including while Patient-X was
continuously and repeatedly” (SAC, pg. 3:13-17); and “. . . recklessly . . .
recklessly . . . .” (SAC, p. 5:6 & 8.)
West Hills now
argues that, despite the fact the Court’s Order did not give Plaintiff leave to
amend his medical malpractice action beyond the above, Plaintiff “made 13
extensive unauthorized amendments to the medical malpractice claim[.]” (Motion,
pp. 9-11.) West Hills argues those 13 amended portions of Plaintiff’s claim
should be stricken without leave to amend, since Plaintiff has already amended
his Complaint three times in response to West Hills’ Demurrers and Motions to
Strike. (See Motion, pg. 13.)
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues the TAC sets forth the same allegations as the SAC
but that Plaintiff deleted the 13th paragraph from the SAC which
caused the paragraphs to be renumbered. (See Opposition, pg. 2.)
Plaintiff argues “but for a few added adjectives and grammar edits in certain
paragraphs, the TAC alleges the same facts for medical malpractice as those
alleged in the SAC” and notes in a footnote that “Plaintiffs attorney believes
that he inadvertently used an earlier draft of the Second Amended Complaint,
not the version that was filed, and that is why there are some minor
differences.” (Id. at 3.) 
The Court
finds it appropriate to grant West Hills’ Motion without leave to amend. While
the Court agrees Plaintiff’s changes do not reflect the addition of new facts,
Plaintiff’s changes are nonetheless not drawn in conformity with this Court’s
Order. The Court’s Order required Plaintiff to strike three distinct portions
of his SAC. None of the ordered changes required – much less contemplated –
deleting entire paragraphs and entirely reordering and retooling his cause of
action, as Plaintiff has done here. Given this is not the first time the Court
is dealing with amendments beyond the scope of its leave to amend and in light
of Plaintiff’s amendment subsequent to the Court’s May 14, 2024, Order, Plaintiff’s
counsel should have been well aware of the Court’s expectations he stick to the
specific orders. Whether this was intentional or simply negligent, the result
is the same. 
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS West Hills’ Motion. 
///
V.            
CONCLUSION
Based on the
foregoing, the Court GRANTS West Hills’ Motion and strikes Plaintiff’s TAC in
accordance with its above analysis. Plaintiff is ordered to file a Fourth
Amended Complaint on or before February 11, 2025, that complies with both this
and its previous October 11, 2024, Order by simply striking the specific
allegations that were the subject of that order. Keep in mind, the Court is NOT
granting Plaintiff leave to amend in the traditional sense for giving him an
opportunity to remedy a defect in the hopes that it might survive going forward
– nor did it previously. Instead, the Court’s order that Plaintiff file a
fourth amended complaint that complies with this order is for the sake of
judicial efficiency so that going forward, the parties and the Court need only
look at one operative pleading. In that sense, the Court’s order that Plaintiff
file a Fourth Amended Complaint is consistent with Code Civ. Proc. §
435.5(e)(1), which prohibits more than three amendments to a complaint, because
the Court considers the amendments reflected in Plaintiff’s TAC as having been
“made without leave of the court” as defined by that section.
In addition,
the Court is setting an Order to Show Cause re: Sanctions pursuant to Code Civ.
Proc. § 128.5 in the amount of $950 on Plaintiff’s counsel payable to West
Hills’ counsel for failure to comply with this order as well as this Court’s
October 11, 2024, Order, on July 29, 2025, at 8:30 a.m. If West Hills’ counsel
believes that Plaintiff’s Fourth Amended Complaint does not comply with this
Court’s orders, in addition to whatever responsive pleading they file, they
have leave to file a declaration outlining “the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by [them] as a result of actions or tactics, made in
bad faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 128.5(a).) Such declaration is due on or before July 8,
2025. 
If West Hills
files such a declaration, Plaintiff has leave to file a responsive declaration on
or before July 15, 2025.
In the event West
Hills’ counsel does not file such a declaration, the Court will deem Plaintiff’s
Fourth Amended Complaint to have complied with this Court’s orders and take the
OSC off calendar. 
Finally, the
Court vacates and continues the Trial Setting Conference from February 21,
2025, to July 29, 2025, at 8:30 a.m. The parties are ordered to file a Joint
Status Update on or before July 22, 2025.
          IT
IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:      January 22, 2025



Hon. Michael R. Amerian
Judge,
  Superior Court



 


