  Case Number:  20STCP01720    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



EAGLE RANCH ACADEMY, INC.,
  a Utah corporation,
            Plaintiff /
  Judgment Creditor,
 
vs.
 
SEAN KANAN aka Sean Perelman, an individual; MICHELE KANAN aka Michele
  Vega, an individual.
Defendant(s)/Judgment
  Debtor(s).
 


 Case No.:          20STCP01720
 Hearing Date:   12/13/23
 Trial Date:        N/A
 
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Judgment Creditor Eagle
  Ranch Academy, Inc.’s Motion for Assignment



 
Eagle Ranch Academy, Inc. (“Judgment Creditor”) brings this unopposed
Motion for Assignment seeking a Court Order assigning payments that Sean Kanan
and Michele Kanan (collectively, “Judgment Debtors”) are entitled to receive
from third-party entities (“Third-Party Entities”) to Judgment Creditor in
order to fulfill a sister-state judgment awarding $251,339.56 to Judgment
Creditor. 
There is no opposition to the Motion,
and a facially valid proof of service is attached, showing timely service on both
the Judgment Debtors and Third-Party Entities. After review, the Court GRANTS Eagle
Ranch Academy’s Motion.
Motion
for Assignment: GRANTED.
Legal Standard 
Code of Civil Procedure section 708.510, subdivision
(a)¿states, in¿relevant¿part:¿ 
“Except as otherwise provided by
law, upon application of the judgment creditor on noticed motion, the court may
order the judgment debtor to assign to the judgment creditor or to a receiver
appointed pursuant to Article 7 (commencing with Section 708.610) all or part
of a right to payment due or to become due, whether or not the right is
conditioned on future developments, including but not limited to the following
types of payments:¿ 
(1) Wages dues from the federal
government that are not subject to withholding under an earnings withholding
order.¿ 
(2) Rents.¿ 
(3) Commissions.¿¿ 
(4) Royalties.¿ 
(5) Payments due from a patent or
copyright.¿ 
(6) Insurance policy loan value.” 
Code of Civil Procedure section 708.510, subdivision (c),
further provides:¿¿ 
“[I]n determining whether to order
an assignment or the amount of an assignment pursuant to subdivision (a), the
court may take into consideration all relevant factors, including the
following:¿ 
(1) The reasonable requirements of
a judgment debtor who is a natural person and of persons supported in whole or
in part by the judgment debtor.¿ 
(2) Payments the judgment debtor is
required to make or that are deducted in satisfaction of other judgments and
wage assignments, including earnings assignment orders for support.¿ 
(3) The amount remaining due on the
money judgment.¿ 
(4) The amount being or to be
received in satisfaction of the right to payment that may be assigned.” 
Analysis
Judgment Creditor seeks an order
assigning Judgment Debtors’ interests in payments from several Third-Party
Entities to Judgment Creditor. Specifically, Judgment Creditor requests the
assignment of Sean Kanan’s interests in royalty and residual payments or
distributions from prior productions with GEP Talent Services, LLC, SPE Inc.,
CBS Broadcasting, Inc., ABC Signature Studios, Inc., and Warner Bros.
Entertainment Inc. Judgment Creditor also requests the assignment of Michele
Kanan’s interests in commissions and/or distributions in connection to her
status as a real estate agent licensed in the State of California.  
The Motion is supported by a declaration
from Judgment Creditor’s attorney who alleges that Judgment Debtors are
believed to have rights to payments from Third-Party Entities. (Jen Decl. ¶¶
4-9.) It is also apparent that the sister-state Judgment is against both Debtors,
jointly and severally. (Exhibit A attached to Jen Decl.)
There is no Opposition to the
Motion, and after considering the requirements listed above, the Court GRANTS Eagle
Ranch Academy Inc.’s Motion for Assignment, up to the amount of $374,359.59,
which includes 1) the sum due on the judgment, 2) post-judgment interest, 3) fees
in the amount of $5,736.75 and 4) costs in the amount of $61.65. The Court will
only assign such rights to payment up to the amount necessary to satisfy the creditor’s
money judgment. (Code Civ. Proc. §708.510 subd. (d).)
Conclusion
Judgment Creditor Eagle Ranch
Academy, Inc.’s Motion for Assignment is GRANTED up to the sum of $374,359.59. 
Judgment Creditor is directed to
lodge a new Proposed Order setting forth the specific amount that will constitute
full satisfaction of the creditor’s money judgment.