 Case Number:  23STCP01228    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for Order Charging Judgment
Debtor Noah Ornstein’s Limited Liability Company Membership Interests
 
Moving Party: Petitioner
EquityMultiple 132, LLC 
Resp. Party:    None
 
 
 
The Motion for Charging Order is GRANTED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
        On
April 18, 2023, Petitioner EquityMultiple 132, LLC filed Judicial Council Form
ADR-106, Petition to Confirm Contractual Arbitration Award against Respondents
Onteora Partners, LLC and Noah Ornstein. 
 
        On
May 25, 2023, the Court granted the Petition and confirmed the arbitration award.

 
        On
July 5, 2023, the Court entered Judgment in this matter. 
 
        On
January 30, 2024, Petitioner (now “Judgment Creditor”) filed Motion for Order
Charging Judgment Debtor Noah Ornstein’s Limited Liability Company Membership
Interests (“Motion for Charging Order”). In support of its Motion for Charging
Order, Judgment Creditor concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Cyndie M.
Chang; (2) Proposed Order; and (3) Proof of Service. 
 
        On
February 23, 2024, Judgment Creditor filed its Reply. 
 
        No
opposition or other response was filed by Respondents (now “Judgment Debtors”).

 

ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard
 
“If a money
judgment is rendered against a partner or member but not against the
partnership or limited liability company, the judgment debtor’s interest in the
partnership or limited liability company may be applied toward the satisfaction
of the judgment by an order charging the judgment debtor’s interest pursuant to
Section 15907.03, 16504, or 17705.03 of the Corporations Code.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 708.310.)
 
“On application by a
judgment creditor of a member or transferee, a court may enter a charging order
against the transferable interest of the judgment debtor for the unsatisfied
amount of the judgment. A charging order constitutes a lien on a judgment
debtor’s transferable interest and requires the limited liability company to
pay over to the person to which the charging order was issued any distribution
that would otherwise be paid to the judgment debtor.” (Corp. Code, § 17705.03,
subd. (a).)
 
“To the extent necessary to effectuate
the collection of distributions pursuant to a charging order in effect under
subdivision (a), the court may do any of the following:
 
“(1)
Appoint a receiver of the distributions subject to the charging order, with the
power to make all inquiries the judgment debtor might have made.
 
“(2)
Make all other orders necessary to give effect to the charging order.
 
“(3)
Upon a showing that distributions under a charging order will not pay the
judgment debt within a reasonable time, foreclose the lien and order the sale
of the transferable interest. The purchaser at the foreclosure sale obtains
only the transferable interest, does not thereby become a member, and is
subject to Section 17705.02.”
 
(Corp. Code, §
17705.03, subd. (b).)
 
“At any time
before foreclosure under paragraph (3) of subdivision (b), the member or
transferee whose transferable interest is subject to a charging order under
subdivision (a) may extinguish the charging order by satisfying the judgment
and filing a certified copy of the satisfaction with the court that issued the
charging order.” (Corp. Code, § 17705.03, subd. (c).)
 
“At any time before
foreclosure under paragraph (3) of subdivision (b), a limited liability company
or one or more members whose transferable interests are not subject to the
charging order may pay to the judgment creditor the full amount due under the
judgment and thereby succeed to the rights of the judgment creditor, including
the charging order.” (Corp. Code, § 17705.03, subd. (d).)
 
“This title does
not deprive any member or transferee of the benefit of any exemption laws
applicable to the member’s or transferee’s transferable interest.” (Corp. Code,
§ 17705.03, subd. (e).)
 
“This section
provides the exclusive remedy by which a person seeking to enforce a judgment
against a member or transferee may, in the capacity of judgment creditor,
satisfy the judgment from the judgment debtor’s transferable interest.” (Corp.
Code, § 17705.03, subd. (f).)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
Judgment Creditor moves the Court to enter an
order charging Judgment Debtor Noah Ornstein’s interests in various limited
liability companies. (Motion for Charging Order, p. 7:12–13.) 
 
Judgment Creditor provides the Court with
evidence that indicates Judgment Debtor Noah Ornstein has a transferable
interest in each of these limited liability companies. (Decl. Chang, Exhs.
B–S.) The Court has not been presented with evidence that would indicate the
Judgment has been satisfied. 
 
At this time, Judgment Creditor has only
requested that the limited liability companies be charged, not that the liens
on the transferable interests be foreclosed upon. (See Proposed Order.)
 
Judgment Debtors and the various limited
liability companies have not opposed or otherwise responded to the Motion for
Charging Order. The Proof of Service indicates that Judgment Debtors and the
various limited liability companies were served notice of the Motion for
Charging Order. 
 
The evidence before the Court indicates that
a charging order would be appropriate here. 
 
III.    
Conclusion

 
The Motion for Charging Order is GRANTED. 
 
 
 