 Case Number:  23NWCV01042    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  C OROZCO v. SOUTHLAND TRANSIT, INC., ET AL. 
CASE
NO.:  23NWCV01042
HEARING:
 5/8/24 @ 10:30 A.M. 
 
#7
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff Anthony Rangel Orozco’s motion to compel further responses to Requests
for Admissions, Set One is CONTINUED. 
 
Moving Party to give NOTICE. 
 
 
This lawsuit arises out of a motor vehicle
collision. Plaintiff Anthony Rangel Orozco moves to compel further responses to
requests for admissions, set one, numbers 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, and 17
from defendant Southland Transit, Inc. 
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2033.290, subdivision (a) allows a party to
file a motion compelling further responses to requests for admissions if the
party finds that the response is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive, or an
objection is without merit or too general. 

 
Meet
and Confer
 
The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2033.290, subd. (b)(1).)  
 
Based
on the declaration, the Court finds Plaintiff adequately met and conferred with
Defendant. (Decl. Kashani, ¶¶ 7-9, Ex. C, D, and E.) 
                                 
Timeliness 
 
Notice of the motion to compel further must be
provided within 45 days of service of the verified response or on or before any
specific later date to which the parties have agreed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (c).) This 45-day deadline runs from the date the verified response is
served and is extended for service by mail in accordance with Code of Civil
Procedure sections 1010.6, subdivision (a)(4) and 1013, subdivision (a). Failure
to timely move to compel within the specified period constitutes a waiver of
any right to compel a further response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c).)

 
The parties agreed that Plaintiff
could move to compel further responses to responses to requests for admissions by
October 27, 2023. (Decl. Kashani, ¶ 9,
Ex. E.) This motion was filed on October 27, 2023.  Thus, the motion is timely. 
 
Compel Further
 
In
response to the requests for admission, Defendant states, “After reasonable
inquiry, the information known or readily obtainable is insufficient to enable
Responding Party to admit or deny the matter. Investigation and discovery are
continuing and are expected to lead to responsive information.” 
 
Plaintiff
argues that he has produced medical records and responded to discovery; thus,
Defendant’s response is inadequate. Plaintiff also argues that Defendant has at
least one video of the incident and witness statements.  
 
In opposition,
Defendant argues that when it responded, it had not received any of Plaintiff’s
medical records and medical bills, did not depose Plaintiff, or retain any
medical experts to opine on Plaintiff’s alleged injuries, medical treatment,
and prognosis. 
 
In reply,
Plaintiff argues that Defendant investigated before they denied the claim and
then transferred their claims file to counsel. 
 
It is apparent
to the Court that neither side has adequately addressed the discovery requests,
especially given that it appears that Defendant has received more information
about the subject of the requests since responding to the discovery. The
parties are ordered to meet and confer again. If court intervention is still
necessary, the parties are ordered to submit a joint statement in 20 days
regarding the specific items of discovery still at issue. 
 
The motion is CONTINUED to June 5,
2024, at 10:30 A.M. in Dept. SE-C.  
 
 