 Case Number:  23NWCV00523    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  C ORBECK, ET AL. VS. 4BQ
INC. DBA THE POOL GUYS REMODELING & REPAIR
CASE
NO.:  23NWCV00523
HEARING:  5/8/24 @ 10:30 A.M.
 
#6
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Plaintiff-in-Intervention’s
motion for leave to file complaint-in-intervention is GRANTED.
 
Moving
Party to give NOTICE.
 
 
This is a home improvement defect case
involving Plaintiffs’ swimming pool. Plaintiff-in-Intervention State Farm
General Insurance Company seeks leave to intervene. 
 
“A
nonparty shall petition the court for leave to intervene by noticed motion or
ex parte application. The petition shall include a copy of the proposed
complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and set forth the grounds
upon which intervention rests.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (c).) 
 
Timeliness
 
The party seeking to
intervene must be timely, determined by the totality of circumstances, which
includes the following factors: (1) stage of the proceedings; (2) prejudice to
other parties from the delay in seeking to intervene; and (3) the reason for
the delay. (Crestwood Behavioral Health, Inc. v. Lacy (2021) 70
Cal.App.5th 560, 574-576.) Prejudice to existing parties is the most important consideration.
(Id. at 574.) 
 
State Farm Insurance
Company asserts that the motion is timely because no trial date has been set
yet. Defendant opposes, arguing that litigation has been pending for 14 months
and that it will be prejudiced because State Farm Insurance Company filed at
the eleventh hour. 
 
Given that trial has
not been set yet, the Court finds the motion timely. 
 
Mandatory Intervention
 
Intervention
is mandatory or permissive. (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (d).) It is mandatory
if the law confers an unconditional right to intervene, or¿the person seeking
intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction that is
the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the disposition
of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that interest.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (d)(1).) The
exception is if that person’s interest is adequately represented by one or more
of the existing parties. (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (d)(1).) Intervention
is permissive if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in
the success of either of the parties, or an interest against both. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 387, subd. (d)(2).) 
 
An
insurer that has paid benefits to its insured for losses caused by a third
party generally has a right of subrogation against the party responsible for
the loss, and the subrogation right is an interest “relating to the property or
transaction.” (Hodge v. Kirkpatrick Develop., Inc. (2005) 130
Cal.App.4th 540, 548-550.) Thus, the insurer may intervene in any action by the
insured against the responsible party as a matter of right. (Ibid.) 
 
State
Farm General Insurance Company seeks leave to file a complaint-in-intervention
on grounds that it has a right of subrogation. In support, State Farm General
Insurance Company offers a declaration from its counsel who states that State
Farm General Insurance Company issued a policy to Plaintiffs, and based on this
policy, paid benefits. (Decl. Long ¶ 5.) 
 
In
opposition, Defendant argues that State Farm has no interest in property or a
transaction within the meaning of Code of Civil Procedure section 387,
subdivision (b); State Farm’s interests are more than adequately represented by
the plaintiffs; permissive intervention will enlarge and complicate the issues
raised; and the interests of the original parties outweigh State Farm’s
interest in intervention. 
 
Based on the above, the
Court finds intervention to be mandatory. 
 
Permissive Intervention
 
Because the Court finds
intervention to be mandatory, it will not adjudicate whether it is permissive. 
 
The motion is granted. Intervenor
shall separately file the complaint in
intervention and serve notice of the court’s decision to parties who have
appeared. (Code Civ. Proc. § 387, subd. (e).) 
 