 Case Number:  23NWCV03933    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  C QUINONES, ET AL. v. PALEMA
TRUCKING INC, ET AL. 
CASE NO.:  23NWCV03933
HEARING:   5/8/24
@ 10:30 A.M.
 
 
#9
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Brian Jacobson’s motion to be relieved as counsel for Alma Veronica Quinones
is CONTINUED and the motion to be relieved as counsel for Martha Gonzalez
Rodriguez is GRANTED.  
 
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
The motions are unopposed as of May 3, 2024. 
 
 
Brian Jacobson moves to be relieved as
counsel for Alma Veronica Quiones and Martha Gonzalez Rodriguez.
 
Good
cause exists to grant the motion based on any of the grounds under Rules of
Professional Conduct Rule 3-700(C). Rule 3-700(c) provides that an attorney may
withdraw based on any of the following: (1) The client (a) insists upon
presenting a claim or defense that is not warranted under existing law and
cannot be supported by good faith argument for an extension, modification, or
reversal of existing law, or (b) seeks to pursue an illegal course of conduct,
or (c) insists that the member pursue a course of conduct that is illegal or
that is prohibited under these rules or the State Bar Act, or (d) by other
conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the member to carry out the
employment effectively, or (e) insists, in a matter not pending before a tribunal,
that the member engage in conduct that is contrary to the judgment and advice
of the member but not prohibited under these rules or the State Bar Act, or (f)
breaches an agreement or obligation to the member as to expenses or fees. (2)
The continued employment is likely to result in a violation of these rules or
of the State Bar Act; or (3) the inability to work with co-counsel indicates
that the best interests of the client likely will be served by withdrawal; or
(4) The member's mental or physical condition renders it difficult for the
member to carry out the employment effectively; or (5) The client knowingly and
freely assents to termination of the employment; or (6) The member believes in
good faith, in a proceeding pending before a tribunal, that the tribunal will
find the existence of other good cause for withdrawal.
 
The
attorney declarations demonstrate good cause for withdrawal based on a
breakdown in the attorney-client relationship. However, it is not clear if Alma
Veronica Quiones was served at her last known addresses. Attorney Jacobson did
not state how he confirmed Alma Veronica Quinones’ last known address.  
 
Thus,
Brian
Jacobson’s motion to be relieved as counsel for Alma Veronica Quinones is
CONTINUED to May 22,
2024, at 10:30 A.M. in Dept. SE-C. Attorney Jacobson must amend the declaration
to state how he confirmed Alma Veronica Quinones’ last known address. He must
file the amended declaration five court days before the hearing. The motion to
be relieved as counsel for Martha Gonzalez Rodriguez is GRANTED.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 