 Case Number:  22STCV04425    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  C BRADY v. DOE 1 
CASE NO.:  22STCV04425 
HEARING:  04/18/24
 
#8
 
Defendants’ Motion to Seek Discovery Concerning Plaintiff’s
Sexual Conduct with Others Pursuant to CCP §2017.220 and Motion to Seal
Documents is CONTINUED to Thursday, May 9, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in Dept.
SE-C. 
 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
This sexual assault action was filed by Plaintiff CONSTANCE
BRADY (“Plaintiff”) on February 4, 2022. On February 22, 2022, the operative
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed. 
 
The FAC alleges, in pertinent part: “Plaintiff is an adult
female…. At all times relevant to this Complaint, Plaintiff was residing in Los
Angeles County, California and San Bernardino County, California. Plaintiff was
born in 1971 and was a minor throughout the period of child sexual assault
alleged herein. Plaintiff brings this Complaint pursuant to [CCP §] 340.1… for
the childhood sexual assault she suffered at the hands of Defendants.” (FAC
¶2.) “Defendant CHARLES ‘CHUCK’ DRYLIE (‘Drylie’), the perpetrator… lived in
Los Angeles County during the period of time which the sexual abuse,
harassment, and molestation… took place. At all times mentioned herein,
Defendant Drylie was employed by, or otherwise an agent of, Defendant City….
Within the scope of his relationship with Defendant City, Defendant Drylie was
responsible for providing supervision, education, and counselling of minor
children, including Plaintiff….” (FAC ¶3.) “As a result of the above-described
conduct, Plaintiff has suffered and continues to suffer in many ways, including
but not limited to pain of mind and body, emotional distress, physical
manifestations of emotional distress, severe anxiety, post-traumatic stress,
depression, feelings of self-blame, shame, embarrassment, a lost sense of
trust, relationship and intimacy issues, and a sense of being tainted, and was
prevented and will continued to be prevented from performing daily activities
and obtaining the full enjoyment of life.” (FAC ¶59.) 
 
The FAC asserts the following causes of action: 


(1) Negligence;

(2) Negligent
Training and Supervision; 
(3) Sexual
Battery; 
(4) Sexual
Harassment; 
(5) Gender
Violence
 
Defendants CITY OF WHITTER (“City”) and Drylie (collectively
“Defendants”) move for an order seeking discovery concerning Plaintiff’s sexual
conduct with individuals other than the alleged perpetrator pursuant to CCP
§2017.220, and an order to seal portions of the attached memorandum of points
and authorities, as well as portions of the concurrently filed Declaration of
Katrina Valencia and certain exhibits thereto. 
 
CCP §2017.220 is designed to guard against unwarranted
discovery concerning a plaintiff’s sexual conduct. The statute provides as
follows: “In any civil action alleging conduct that constitutes sexual
harassment, sexual assault, or sexual battery, any party seeking discovery
concerning the plaintiffs sexual conduct with individuals other than the
alleged perpetrator shall establish specific facts showing that there is good
cause for that discovery, and that the matter sought to be discovered is
relevant to the subject matter of the action and reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence. This showing shall be made by a
noticed motion, accompanied by a meet and confer declaration… and shall
not be made or considered by the court at an ex parte hearing.” (emphasis
added) (CCP §2017.220(a).) 
 
“A right to privacy was recognized in the seminal case of Griswold
v. Connecticut (1965) 381 U.S. 479…. It protects both the marital
relationship and the sexual lives of the unmarried. More significantly,
California accords privacy the constitutional status of an ‘inalienable right,’
on par with defending life and possessing property. California’s privacy
protection similarly embraces sexual relations. [Internal Citations Omitted.]”
(Vinson v. Sup. Ct. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 841.) “The mere fact that a
plaintiff has initiated an action seeking damages for extreme mental and
emotional distress arising out of conduct of a sexual nature does not ipso
facto provide ‘good cause’ for discovery of other sexual conduct. The issue is
resolved by balancing the right to privacy with the defendant’s right to
discovery.[Citations Omitted.]” (Barrenda L. v. Sup. Ct. (1998) 65
Cal.App.4th 794, 801.)
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff argues that rape shield laws
prevent Defendants’ blanket inquiry into Plaintiff’s sexual history; and that
Defendants have failed to establish good cause, relevance, and likelihood of
admissible evidence to conduct discovery into Plaintiff’s sexual history. Plaintiff
states that during meet and confer efforts, Plaintiff agreed to discovery of
the following, more narrowly tailored topics: (1) the identifies of specific
sexual partners; (2) the total number of sexual partners that Plaintiff has had
over her lifetime; (3) the specific sexual acts Plaintiff has engaged in, other
than the specific sex acts or positions that Plaintiff asserts contribute to
her damages; (4) the frequency that Plaintiff engages in sexual acts, other
than the specific sex acts or positions that Plaintiff asserts contribute to
her damages; and (5) Plaintiff’s sexual activity while a minor prior to being
sexually assaulted by Defendant Drylie. “Plaintiff has already agreed to
supplement discovery requests to identify specifically which sexual acts and
positions cause her trauma.” (Opp. 14:18-19) 
 
In Reply, Defendants indicate that Plaintiff supplemented
her responses to FI No. 6.2 and SI No. 73 on April 5, 2024 (after the Subject
Motion was filed). Defendants’ Proposed Order (filed in conjunction with the
Reply) indicates that Defendants now seek a “narrower” Order permitting
discovery into the following topics: 
 
(1) Identities
of specific sexual partners; 
(2) Number
of sexual partners that Plaintiff has had; 
(3) Specific
sexual acts that Plaintiff engages in that cause her trauma and flashbacks; 
(4) Frequency
of engaging in specific sexual acts that Plaintiff engages in that cause her
trauma and flashbacks; 
(5) Discovery
concerning Plaintiff’s fear of being hugged from behind. 
 
It is unclear whether any meet and confer occurred over
Plaintiff’s April 5, 2024 Supplemental Responses. Moreover, based on
Plaintiff’s arguments in Opposition, it appears that Plaintiff is willing to
further supplement her responses. 
 
Consequently, Counsel are
instructed to further meet and confer on the remaining issues, identified in
the Opposition and Reply papers. Counsel are advised that their meet and confer
efforts should go beyond merely sending letters stating their respective
positions. (See Townsend v. Superior Court (1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431,
1439.) “A determination of whether an attempt at informal resolution is
adequate…involves the exercise of discretion. The level of effort at an
informal resolution which satisfies the ‘reasonable and good faith attempt’
standard depends upon the circumstances. In a larger, more complex discovery
request, a greater effort at informal resolution may be warranted. In a
simpler, or more narrowly focused case, a more modest effort may suffice. The
history of the litigation, the nature of the interaction between counsel, the
nature of the issues, the type and scope of the discovery requested, the
prospects for success and other similar factors can be relevant. Judges have
broad powers and responsibilities to determine what measures and procedures are
appropriate in varying circumstances.” (Obregon v. Sup. Ct. (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 424, 431.) 
 
Counsel are ORDERED to make further efforts to resolve the issues presented.
If, after exhausting those efforts, court intervention is needed, counsel may
appear and argue the merits on the continued hearing date. If counsel are
unable to informally resolve their discovery disputes, then counsel are
instructed to submit a JOINT STATEMENT outlining the remaining disputed
issues for which a ruling is required. The joint statement must be FILED on or
before Friday, April 26, 2024. 
 
 
 
 