 Case Number:  22STCV37218    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Hearing on Demurrer – with Motion to Strike (CCP 430.10) and Motion to Strike
Motion to strike portions of cross-complaint (CCP 435, 436).
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Towns End Development, Inc. (“TED”) sued
defendant Virginia F. Valdez, individually and as trustee of the Valdez Family
Trust dated December 23, 1998 alleging causes of action for (1) specific
performance of a real estate purchase agreement, (2) breach of contract, (3)
declaratory relief, (4) an accounting, and (5) arbitration.
Defendant Valdez, individually and as trustee,
cross-complained against Plaintiff TED and against Clinton Virgil, LLC, Arixa
Secured Income Fund, LLC, and Score Portfolio I, LLC. Valdez’s cross-complaint
asserts causes of action for (1) forgery, (2) cancellation of instrument, (3)
quiet title, (4) slander of title, (5) financial elder abuse, and (6)
declaratory and injunctive relief.
TED demurred to and moved to strike portions of Defendant’s
cross-complaint. Defendant opposes the demurrer and motion to strike. 
LEGAL STANDARD
            Demurrer
Where pleadings are defective, a party may raise the
defect by way of a demurrer. (Coyne v. Krempels (1950) 36 Cal.2d 257,
262.) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint alleges facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10; Young
v. Gannon (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 209, 220.) 
When considering a demurrer, a court reads the
allegations stated in the challenged pleading liberally and in context, and
“treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but
not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v.
Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.) Put differently: for purposes of
demurrer, the court treats all facts alleged – but only the facts alleged
– in the complaint as true. (Picton v. Anderson Union High School District
(1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 732.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the
complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of
action.” (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) 
            Motion to Strike
“The court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435 [notice of motion to strike whole or part
of complaint], or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems
proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading.” (Id. § 436 (a).) Irrelevant matters include immaterial
allegations that are not essential to the claim or those not pertinent to or
supported by an otherwise sufficient claim. (Id., § 431.10.) The court
may also “[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.” (Id. § 436 (b).)
Motions to strike are used to reach defects or
objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer, such as words,
phrases, and prayers for damages. (See Code Civ. Proc. §§ 435, 436, and 437.)
The proper procedure to attack false allegations in a pleading is a motion to
strike. (Id. § 436 (a).) A motion to strike is also the proper procedure
to attack a purportedly improper remedy such as unjustified punitive damages. (Venice
Town Council, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 1547, 1561-1562.)
 
EVIDENTIARY RULINGS
TED requests judicial
notice of four records already on file in this action. The Court grants the
requests, although they do not change the analysis.
MEETING AND CONFERENCE
“Before filing a demurrer
... , the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with
the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).) An
equivalent requirement applies to motions to strike. (Id., § 435.5.)
Counsel attests that sections
430.41 and 435.5 are satisfied. (Mink Decl., ¶ 2.)
ANALYSIS - DEMURRER
TED demurs to all causes of action in Defendant’s
cross-complaint, arguing each fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action and/or is fatally uncertain.
/ / /
/ / /
            1.
Judicial Estoppel
TED argues Defendant has made admissions to the Court
in sworn declarations that should supersede contradictory allegations in her cross-complaint,
based on the doctrine of judicial estoppel. The Court disagrees.
“ ‘Judicial estoppel is an equitable doctrine aimed at
preventing fraud on the courts.’ [Citation.] It prohibits a party from taking
inconsistent positions in the same or different judicial proceedings.
[Citation.]” (M. Perez Co., Inc. v. Base Camp Condominiums Assn. No. One
(2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 456, 463 (M. Perez).)
TED implicitly appeals to a particular species of
judicial estoppel, the sham pleading doctrine. The sham pleading doctrine
permits the court, upon demurrer, to disregard allegations in a pleading that a
party has otherwise contradicted via judicial admissions. (See Nguyen v.
Western Digital Corp. (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 1522 [definition].)
To estop a plaintiff from pleading her claim under the
sham pleading doctrine, she must have made a “judicial admission”, that is, an
“unequivocal concession of the truth” of the relevant matter. (Humane
Society of U.S. v. Superior Court (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 1233, 1249.) 
The Court does not find the statements in Defendant’s
declaration to be unequivocal concessions contradicting her cross-complaint,
such that they may be regarded as judicial admissions that implicate the sham
pleading doctrine.
If TED means to argue the Court should apply some
broader equitable concept of judicial estoppel to strike Plaintiff’s pleading,
the Court declines to do that as well. Even if Plaintiff’s position in her cross-complaint
is inconsistent with her declaration, the inconsistency does not
“ ‘ “ ‘have an adverse impact on the judicial process’ ” ’ ”,
such that the Court could properly cut her case off at the pleading stage based
on purely equitable concerns.
The Court rejects the argument that Defendant is
judicially estopped from stating any of her claims.
            2.
First Cause of Action for Forgery
TED argues there is no civil cause of action for
forgery. Defendant does not oppose this contention but argues the demurrer to
this cause of action should be overruled because the allegations can be
“treat[ed] ... as any of the other included causes of action in the
Cross-Complaint.” (Opp., 3:23-25.) 
A cause of action may proceed if it states any
cognizable claim, even on a different theory than the plaintiff proposes. (See Lee
Newman, M.D., Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 73, 78-79.) Here,
Defendant concedes her legal theory is unclear, but she fails to identify any
that should be substituted for it. Her opposition suggests she might have meant
to plead fraud. If so, she may attempt to do so by amendment; but as things
stand, the cause of action is fatally uncertain.
The demurrer is sustained with twenty days’ leave to
amend.
3. Second Cause of Action
for Cancellation of Instrument
TED argues “[a] cause of action for cancellation may
be based on forgery”; that forgery is the same as fraud; and that Defendant has
not stated a claim for fraud, so her claim for cancellation of instrument fails.
(Dem., 6:9-19.)
A cause of action for cancellation of instrument does
not require a plaintiff to plead fraud. “ ‘ “ To prevail on a
claim to cancel an instrument, a plaintiff must prove (1) the instrument is
void or voidable due to, for example, fraud, and (2) there is a
reasonable apprehension of serious injury including pecuniary loss or the
prejudicial alternation of one's position.” ’ ” (Weeden v. Hoffman
(2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 269, 294, emphasis added.) Fraud is only one basis on
which an instrument might be void or voidable. Forgery is a different basis
with different ramifications for the enforceability of a deed. (See People
v. Schmidt (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 1042, 1058-1059 [distinguishing
fraudulently induced deed, voidable, from forged deed, void ab initio].)
Here, Defendant has pled the deed to the Property is void
due to Plaintiff’s forgery of the deed. “[F]orgery includes ‘ “a false making
of a writing” ’ that ‘ “falsely purports to be the writing of another.” ’ ” (La
Jolla Group II v. Bruce (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 461, 478.) Defendant has
pled these elements, so she has stated a claim for cancellation.
The demurrer to the second cause of action is
overruled.
4. Third, Fourth, and
Sixth Causes of Action for Cancellation, Quiet Title, and Declaratory Relief
TED argues Defendant’s third, fourth, and sixth causes
of action are subject to demurrer for the exact same reasons as the second.
(See Dem., 12:1-6.) In fact, the demurrer to the second cause of action failed,
and the demurrers to the third, fourth and sixth, fail for the same reasons.
Defendant does not need to plead fraud to state any of these claims, nor is she
subject to heightened pleading requirements.
The demurrers to the third, fourth, and sixth causes
of action are overruled.
            5.
Fifth Cause of Action for Financial Elder Abuse
TED’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action relies on
the same erroneous premise: that in order to plead financial elder abuse, Defendant
needs to plead a fraud claim. Not so.
A plaintiff claiming elder abuse
must allege (1) she is an elder adult and (2) a defendant took, secreted,
appropriated, or retained her real or personal property, or assisted another to
do so, (3) to a wrongful use, with an intent to defraud, or by undue influence.
(Wel. & Inst. Code § 15610.30, subd. (a); Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009)
173 Cal.App.4th 156, 174.)
For the purposes of the abuse
statute, “ ‘[e]lder’ means any person residing in this state, 65 years of age
or older.” (Wel. & Inst. Code § 15610.27.)
As to the second element, “a
person or entity takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or
personal property when an [elder] is deprived of any property right, including
by means of an agreement, or testamentary bequest … .” (Id. ¶
15610.30, subd. (c).)
Defendant has pled she is an
elder adult and TED took her real property. She can satisfy the third element
of her claim by pleading the property was taken to a wrongful use, without
pleading fraud. Taking property “[to] a wrongful use is defined as taking,
secreting, appropriating, or retaining property in bad faith. Bad faith occurs
where the person or entity knew or should have known that the elder had the
right to have the property transferred or made readily available to the elder
or to his or her representative. [Citation.]” (Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009)
173 Cal.App.4th 156, 174.)
Defendant has pled that TED
intentionally took her property by forging her signature and/or defrauding her
into signing a document under false pretenses. She alleges facts that amount to
taking for a wrongful use. She has stated a claim for financial elder abuse. 
The demurrer to the fifth cause
of action is overruled.
ANALYSIS - MOTION TO STRIKE
The demurrer having been
sustained with leave to amend, the motion to strike is denied as moot.
CONCLUSION
The demurrer filed by Towns End Development, Inc. on
May 28, 2024 is sustained as to the first cause of action with twenty days’
leave to amend, and otherwise overruled.
The motion to strike filed by Towns End Development,
Inc. on May 28, 2024 is denied.