  Case Number:  23STCV04929    Hearing Date:   December 1, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



HSIU PING WANG 
                           
         vs.
 
GENERAL MOTORS, LLC 
 
                                          


 Case No.: 
  23STCV04929  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 1, 2023



 
Defendant’s
demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
            Defendant’s motion to strike is
DENIED.
 
On 3/6/2023,
Plaintiff Hsiu Ping Wang (Plaintiff) filed suit against General Motors, LLC
(GM). On 8/14/2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (FAC) alleging:
(1) fraud; (2) negligent misrepresentation; (3) Business and Professions Code
section 17200; (4) breach of express warranty; (5) breach of implied warranty;
(6) Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act Civil Code section 1793.2(b). 
 
            Now,
GM demurs to the first, second, and third causes of action of the FAC. GM also
moves to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages.
 
Discussion 
 
GM argues
that Plaintiff has not alleged any facts which could support the claims
sounding in fraud (i.e, the first, second, and third causes of action.)
 
After review,
the Court disagrees.  
 
The requisite
elements of a fraud cause of action are: (1) a representation, usually of fact, which is false; (2)
knowledge of its falsity; (3) intent to defraud; (4) justifiable reliance upon
the misrepresentation; and (5) damage resulting from that justifiable
reliance.  (Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal. App. 3d 59, 72-73 (Stansfield).) 
 
“In California,
fraud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not
suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th at p. 645.) “Causes of action for intentional and negligent
misrepresentation sound in fraud and, therefore, each element must be pleaded
with specificity.  [Citations.]”  (Daniels v. Select Portfolio Servicing,
Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166.) The specificity requirement
extends to each and every element. (Moncada
v. West Coast Quartz Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 768, 776). Consequently,
“a plaintiff must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were made, and, in the case of a corporate defendant
… the names of the persons who made the representations, [and] their authority
to speak on behalf of the corporation….” 
(West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.
(2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 793.) 
 
Previously,
the Court sustained GM’s demurrer, writing, “If Plaintiff does not allege he
decided to purchase the Subject Vehicle in reliance on specific representations
by specific individuals at GM, then Plaintiff cannot allege fraud based on
misrepresentation. Rather, Plaintiff’s claim would sound only in concealment.”
Now, Plaintiff alleges that “In reliance on the representations made by Defendant
Manufacturer through its advertisements and publications and those of the
salesperson who was authorized to speak on behalf of Manufacturer that the
Vehicle’s range on a single charge was 259 miles, that it could be charged at
home indoors, that it was safe, and that Manufacturer would repair any defects
in the Vehicle during the express warranty period at no charge, Plaintiff
decided to lease the Vehicle.” (Complaint ¶ 8.) This is sufficient at the
pleading stage to state a claim for fraud based on misrepresentation, given
that Plaintiff’s FAC sets forth the specific alleged misrepresentations made in
advertising that he allegedly relied upon. 

 
The Court
also finds Plaintiff’s allegations as to concealment to be sufficient.
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant knew of the defective high voltage battery
pack in the Subject Vehicle, and that it concealed this fact because it knew it
would sell more vehicles and would discourage Plaintiff from seeking
replacement or repair of the defective Battery. (Complaint ¶¶ 28, 34.) In
support, Plaintiff alleges facts which could show that Defendant was aware of
the defective batteries plaguing Chevrolet Bolt vehicles as early as 2017,
based on customer satisfaction notices issued, new software updates issued, the
issuance of multiple recalls, the receipt of at least four claims alleging that
the battery pack in Chevrolet Bolt vehicles had caused a fire, and Defendant’s
identification of at least a dozen battery-related allegations of fire
involving 2017-2019 Bolt vehicles, (Complaint ¶¶ 14-23.) At the pleading stage,
these allegations are sufficient to state a claim for fraudulent concealment.
While Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s allegations as to knowledge and intent
are conclusory, it would place a nearly insurmountable hurdle on plaintiffs if
they were required to allege specific facts to show things like knowledge and
intent without the benefit of discovery . This evidence is contemplated by the
discovery process. Rather, at the pleading stage, Plaintiff must allege facts
which could reasonably show that Defendant possessed the requisite knowledge,
based on the available facts.  
 
As to the
second cause of action, Plaintiff, as discussed above, has adequately alleged
facts which could show Defendant negligently misrepresented material facts. 
 
            As
to the third cause of action, Defendant argues that this claim fails because
the first and second causes of action are insufficiently supported. As set
forth above, Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts to state a claim for
fraudulent concealment and misrepresentation. Accordingly, Plaintiff has
alleged sufficient facts here to show that Defendant engaged in unlawful
conduct. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is overruled. 
 
Motion to Strike 
             
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages should be struck because
Plaintiff cannot show that Defendant engaged in malicious, oppressive, or
fraudulent conduct.  
 
            As
set forth above, the Court overruled Defendant’s demurrer. Accordingly,
Plaintiff has necessarily alleged facts which could show Defendant engaged in
fraudulent conduct. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3).) 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to strike is denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 