  Case Number:  23STCV00692    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


December 5, 2023




CASE NUMBER


23STCV00692




MOTION


Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants DH Distribution and Larissa Menshikova




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Fred Behfarin



 
MOTION
 
Defendants DH Distribution (“DH”) and Larissa Menshikova
(“Menshikova”) (collectively, “Defendants”) demur to all nine causes of action[1]
alleged in Plaintiff Fred Behfarin’s (“Plaintiff”) Second Amended Complaint
(“SAC”) on the grounds that the SAC is uncertain and fails to state a cause of
action pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure 430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f).[2]  Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and Defendants
have replied. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the pleading
is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably respond - i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
claims are directed against him or her. 
(Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
616.)  Where a demurrer is made upon the
ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly specify exactly how or why
the pleading is uncertain, and where such uncertainty appears by reference to
page and line numbers.  (See Fenton
v. Groveland Comm. Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Here, Defendants do not demonstrate that any portions of the SAC are
so bad that they cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or
denied, or what claims are directed against them.  The memorandum of points and authorities does
not even address uncertainty at all.  The
Court thus declines to sustain Defendants’ demurrer to the SAC on the basis of
uncertainty.  
 
B.    
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
DEFENDANT
MENSHIKOVA
 
                                                                   
i.           
Officer
Liability
 
Defendants first contend that
the entire SAC fails to state a cause of action against Menshikova because all
causes of action stem from an Agreement between Plaintiff and Defendant
Menshikov on behalf of DH, to which Menshikova was neither a party nor
signatory, and Menshikova cannot be liable merely by virtue of her alleged
status as an officer of DH.
 
“Directors or officers of a
corporation do not incur personal liability for torts of the corporation merely
by reason of their official position, unless they participate in the wrong or
authorize or direct that it be done They may be liable, under the rules of tort
and agency, for tortious acts committed on behalf of the corporation.”  (United States Liab. Ins. Co. v.
Haidinger-Hayes, Inc. (1970) 1 Cal.3d 586, 595.)
 
Here, Menshikova is alleged to
be an employee/officer/shareholder of DHD and is alleged to have personally
“participated in the illegal acts of DHD.” 
(SAC ¶ 6.)  Specifically,
Menshikova, as the only DH representative alleged to reside in the United
States, has allegedly been in communication with the City, yet “failed and
refused to either fix or demolish the nuisance building on the property, by
ignoring citations issued by the City” (SAC ¶¶ 16(e); 56) and “failed and
refused to re-instate the canceled Permits for the property, and either fix or
demolish the Nuisance Building, as ordered by the City.”  (SAC ¶ 22(c).)  Menshikova is also alleged to have “undertaken
acts in an effort to interfere with the Agreement between [DH] and [Plaintiff]”
(SAC ¶ 37) and to have “cancelled the application for permits for a
7-unit condominium project to be built on the Subject Property” in bad
faith.  (SAC ¶ 55.)
 
Thus, Plaintiff has stated sufficient “ultimate facts” that Menshikova
personally participated in the alleged acts and omissions to withstand
demurrer.[3]
                                                                 
ii.           
Fourth
Cause of Action – Bad Faith Waste
 
“[W]aste is conduct (including
in this word both acts of commission and of omission) on the part of the person
in possession of land which is actionable at the behest of, and for the
protection of the reasonable expectations of, another owner of an interest in
the same land.”  (Avalon Pacific-Santa
Ana, L.P. v. HD Supply Repair & Remodel, LLC (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th
1183, 1211.)  “In order to state a cause
of action for waste, a plaintiff must plead and prove that the defendant was
under a duty to preserve and protect the property involved.”  (Ibid.)  
 
Menshikova demurs to the
fourth cause of action for bad faith waste on the grounds that Menshikova is
not alleged to be an owner of the subject property.  This argument confuses the necessary
ownership interest.  The person
committing waste need not have an ownership interest in the property.  Rather, the person committing waste has some
possessory interest in the property, which includes a duty to preserve and
protect the property, yet damages the property in contravention of the rights
of those who have ownership interests in the property.  
 
Here, as discussed above,
Menshikova is alleged to be the only representative of DH to reside in the
United States, to have personally communicated with the City about the nuisance
structure on the property, yet “failed or refused to either fix or demolish the
nuisance building on the property.”  (SAC
¶¶ 16(e); 22(c); 56.)  Moreover,
Plaintiff has alleged an ownership interest in the subject property, by virtue
of the agreements that are in dispute.
 
Therefore, the fact that
Menshikova is alleged to have possession and control, but not a personal
ownership interest in, the subject property, is not fatal to the claim.
 
                                                               
iii.           
Fifth and
Sixth Causes of Action – Intentional & Negligent Misrepresentation
 
The elements for fraudulent
misrepresentation are “(1) the defendant represented to the plaintiff that an
important fact was true; (2) that representation was false; (3) the defendant
knew that the representation was false when the defendant made it, or the
defendant made the representation recklessly and without regard for its truth;
(4) the defendant intended that the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5)
the plaintiff reasonably relied on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was
harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's reliance on the defendant's representation was
a substantial factor in causing that harm to the plaintiff.”  (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 605–606.)  
 
“The essential elements of a
count for negligent misrepresentation are the same [as intentional
misrepresentation] except that it does not require knowledge of falsity but
instead requires a misrepresentation of fact by a person who has no reasonable
grounds for believing it to be true.”  (Chapman
v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 230-231 (hereafter Chapman).)  Like intentional misrepresentation, causes of
action for negligent misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also,
therefore, be pleaded with particularity. 
(Ibid.)  
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
Here, there are no specific
allegations that Menshikova made any representation to Plaintiff, much less a
false representation, or that Plaintiff relied on any representation made by
Menshikova to Plaintiff’s detriment.  In
opposition, Plaintiff concedes that the demurrer to the “fraud causes of action
are correct.”  (Opp. at p. 2:12-14.)  
 
Therefore, the Court sustains
Menshikova’s demurrer to the fifth and sixth causes of action for intentional
and negligent misrepresentation.
 
                                                               
iv.           
Seventh
Cause of Action – Tortious Interference with Contract, Prospective Business
Advantage
 
“The elements of an action for
tortious interference are (1) a valid contract between plaintiff and a third
party; (2) defendant's knowledge of this contract; (3) defendant's intentional
acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual relationship;
(4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; and (5)
resulting damage.”  (Hahn v.
Diaz-Barba (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 1177, 1196.)  
 
The elements of a cause of action for intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage are: (1) the existence between plaintiff and a
third party of an economic relationship with the probability of future economic
benefit to the plaintiff; (2) defendant’s knowledge of the relationship; (3)
intentionally wrongful acts designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual
disruption of the relationship; and (5) economic harm proximately caused by the
defendant’s action.  (Roy Allan Slurry
Seal, Inc. v. American Asphalt South, Inc. (2017) 2 Cal.5th 505, 512.)  
 
Plaintiff contends that
paragraphs 6, 13-14, 16(d)-(e), 22(c)-(d), 78, and 79 of the SAC support his
claim for tortious interference as to Menshikova.  Those paragraphs allege as follows:
 
6.  At all times mentioned here, Defendant Larisa
Menshikova (“LARISA”) is an individual, residing in the County of Los
Angeles.  Plaintiff is informed and
believes that LARISA is an employee and/or officer/shareholder of DHD, and
daughter of MENSHIKOV who participated in the illegal acts of DHD.
 
13.  On November 21, 2019 at 9:00 am, Plaintiff
went to BHE to sign the documents. 
MENSHIKOV on behalf of DHD started to renege on the agreement which were
negotiated and finalized the day before until 4:15 pm, reducing the agreed
amount.  Plaintiff MENSHIKOV and DHD
executed the Agreement and Escrow Instructions (“Agreement”) which reflected
the final agreement through which Plaintiff would purchase the Subject
Property.  A true and correct copy of the
Agreement is attached as Exhibit 2.
 
14.  As a result of MENSHIKOV and DHD’s bad faith
conduct in reneging on the initial agreement between the parties, BEHFARIN lost
the opportunity to go to County of Los Angeles before 5:00 pm to close on five
(5) other properties BEHFARIN has won at the same Tax Sale Auction, causing
substantial damages.
 
16.  MENSHIKOV/DHD Breached the executed
“Agreement and Escrow Instruction” in numerous ways in the past three and a
half (3.5) years, including but not limited to:
 
            (d) MENSHIKOV/DHD breached the
Agreement to preserve the status of the property, by opening another Escrow
with Does 1-10 represented by Judith K. Manouchehri, Esq. In Breach of section
5(d) of the Agreement.
 
            (e) BEHFARIN has reviewed records of
the City of West Hollywood (“City”) and noted that in addition, to MENSHIKOV,
DHD officers or employees LUCY and LARISSA have been in direct communication
with City and have told the City, on behalf of DHD, that DHD would make the
necessary repairs.  Instead of complying
with the City’s requests the MENSHIKOV/DHD, LUCY AND LARISSA failed and refused
to either fix or demolish the nuisance building on the property, by ignoring
citations issued by City, causing the City to file a Complaint, Case
#22SMCV01809 (“Receivership Case”) against BEHFARIN, causing substantial costs
and damages.
 
22.  As of this date, and in Breach of the
Agreement:
 
            (c) MENSHIKOV/DHD, LUCY and LARISA
have failed and refused to re-instate the canceled Permits for the property,
and either fix or demolish the Nuisance Building, as ordered by the City
 
            (d) MENSHIKOV/DHD has failed and
refused to cancel the “Fraudulent Escrow” made with DOES 1-10 represented by
Judith K. Manouchehri, Esq. In Breach of section 5(d) of the executed
Agreement.
 
78.  Plaintiff further alleges that:
            
a)     
Plaintiff
had and still has a contact with defendant DHD and defendant MENSHIKOV
 
b)     
Defendant
Does 1 – 10 had full knowledge of the executed “Agreement and Escrow
Instructions” between plaintiff and defendants DHD & MENSHIKOV
 
c)     
There
exists no contractual relationship between defendant BHE with Defendants DHD
and MENSHIKOV.
 
d)     
Plaintiff
alleges that representatives of defendants MENSHIKOV met and conferred behind
Plaintiff’s back with Judith K. Manouchehri, Esq as representative of DOES
1-10, with the intent to disrupt the contractual relationship between Plaintiff
and defendants DHD & MENSHIKOV, to conspire against Plaintiff, and to
interfere with Plaintiff’s contract and its prospective business advantage.
 
e)     
Plaintiff
alleges that defendants MENSHIKOV’s Conspiracy with DOES 1-10 was in fact
tortuous interference with contract for their financial gains, causing
substantial damages.
 
79.  At the time of their illegal conduct,
MENSHIKOV and DOES 1 represented by Judith K. Manouchehri, Esq were aware that
DHD and MENSHIKOV were required by the Agreement to sell the Subject Property
to BEHFARIN with all entitlements and permits.
 
The only allegations as to Menshikova
are in paragraphs 16(e) and 22(c), alleging that Menshikova were in direct
communication with the City, refused to abate the nuisance on the property,
ignoring the citations issued by the City, and refused to reinstate permits.  Thus, there are no allegations that Menshikova
was aware of the Agreement between Plaintiff and DH (which her father,
Menshikov allegedly signed on behalf of DH), or that Menshikova intended to
disrupt the Agreement by ignoring the City’s citations, failing to abate the
nuisance on the property, and failing to re-instate the permits.
 
            Plaintiff contends that the conduct
of DH should be imputed to Menshikova by virtue of paragraph 6, which alleges Menshikova
“participated in the illegal acts of DHD.” 
The Court disagrees that this is sufficient to establish Menshikova’s
knowledge of the Agreement or intentional interference with the Agreement.
 
                                                                 
v.           
First,
Third, and Eighth Causes of Action – Specific Performance; Breach of Contract;
and Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith & Fair Dealing 
 
Although Defendants’
memorandum of points and authorities does not specifically address these causes
of action as to Menshikova, Plaintiff concedes in opposition that Menshikova’s
demurrer as to the contract-related causes of action is proper.  
 
Therefore, the Court sustains
Menshikova’s demurrer to the first, third, and eighth causes of action for
specific performance, breach of contract, and breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing, respectively.
 
DEFENDANT DH
 
                                                                   
i.           
Fifth and
Sixth Causes of Action – Intentional & Negligent Misrepresentation
 
Plaintiff contends there are
no specific allegations as to who from DH made the alleged misrepresentations,
to whom they spoke, what they said, and when they said it.  The Court disagrees.  As to DH, the SAC alleges in this regard:
 
3.   At all times mentioned herein, Defendant
Sergey Menshikov (“MENSHIKOV”) is and individual who Plaintiff is informed and
believes resides in and does business in the County of Los Angeles.  MENSHIKOV is and was President and Owner of
DHD who negotiated and executed the contract referenced below in Los Angeles
County.
 
60.  Plaintiff alleges that, commencing on or
about beginning of October 2019, and thereafter, Defendants DHD and MENSHIKOV
and each of them, in conspiracy with one another, fraudulently concealed
material facts and made false representations to Plaintiff.  In an effort to convince BEHFARIN to enter
into the Agreement and temporarily forego his purchase of the Subject Property,
DHD and MENSHIKOV assured Plaintiff that he would make transfers of amount
exceeding $540,000 into BHE which would be released to Plaintiff and the they
would continue forward with the permitting process to ensure construction could
commence prior to the May 17, 2023 expiration of entitlements to the Subject
Property.
 
Thus, the SAC alleges with
sufficient particularity, that Menshikov, as President and Owner of DH, and
speaking on behalf of DH, made specific misrepresentations to Plaintiff in
October 2019 regarding the transfer of money into escrow and the permitting
process for the subject property.
 
                                                                 
ii.           
Eighth
Cause of Action – Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith & Fair Dealing
 
 “Every contract imposes upon each party a duty
of good faith and fair dealing in its performance and its enforcement.”  (Foley v. Interactive Data Corp.
(1988) 47 Cal.3d 654, 683.)  “Because the
covenant is a contract term, however, compensation for its breach has almost
always been limited to contract rather than tort remedies.”  (Id. at p. 684.)  “As a contract concept, breach of the duty
led to imposition of contract damages determined by the nature of the breach
and standard contract principles.”  (Ibid.)  A notable exception to this general rule is
in the insurance contract context, where courts have determined, that due to
the special fiduciary relationship between insurer and insured, breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing can sound in tort in such a
context.  (Id. at pp. 684-693.)  
 
Here, Plaintiff appears to
attempt to allege a breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing by alleging a fiduciary relationship between himself and DH.  (See SAC ¶¶ 85-86.)  
 
The Court need not decide at this juncture whether Plaintiff has
established a case to recover for breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing in contract or in tort. 
Plaintiff has alleged that DH made misrepresentations in bad faith while
the parties negotiated the subject agreement. 
Plaintiff has also alleged that Defendants had a fiduciary relationship
and a duty to act in good faith. 
Therefore, Plaintiff has met his burden at the pleading stage.
 
                                                               
iii.           
Seventh
Cause of Action – Tortious Interference with Contract, Prospective Business
Advantage
 
DH contends that Plaintiff has
failed to state a cause of action against DH for tortious interference with
contract or prospective business advantage because the SAC does not allege a
contractual or other business relationship between Plaintiff and any third
party.  The Court agrees.  The only Agreement alleged is between DH and
Plaintiff.  (See SAC ¶¶ 77, 78a.)  Because there is no cause of action for
tortious interference with one’s own contract, the Court sustains DH’s demurrer
to the Seventh Cause of Action.
 
            Both DH and Menshikova
 
                                                                   
i.           
Second
Cause of Action – Injunctive Relief
 
Defendants contend, and
Plaintiff concedes, that injunctive relief is a remedy, not a cause of
action.  Therefore, the Court sustains Defendants’
demurrer to the Second Cause of Action for Injunctive Relief.
 
                                                                 
ii.           
Ninth
Cause of Action – Declaratory Relief
 
Similarly, declaratory relief
is an equitable remedy, not a cause of action. 
(Faunce v. Cate (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 166, 173.)  Therefore, the Court similarly sustains
Defendants’ demurrer to the Ninth Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief.
 
2.     
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of
showing in what manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment
would change the legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action.
(See The Inland Oversight Committee v City of San Bernardino (2018) 27
Cal.App.5th 771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc.
(2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal
basis for the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a
cause of action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven
Int'l, Inc., supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff
does not meet his or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a
demurrer or motion to strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint
deficient, plaintiff respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major
Clients Agency v Diemer (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank
of America (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to
amend does not satisfy the burden].)
 
As to Menshikova, Plaintiff has conceded that the demurrers to the
first, third, and eighth causes of action for specific performance, breach of
contract, and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
respectively, should be sustained.  As
such, the Court denies leave to amend these causes of action as to
Menshikova.  Similarly, Plaintiff
concedes Menshikova’s demurrers to the fifth and sixth causes of action for
intentional and negligent misrepresentation should be sustained as to
Menshikova.  Therefore, the Court
similarly denies leave to amend those causes of action as to Menshikova.  
 
As for the seventh cause of action for tortious interference with
contract, prospective business advantage, Plaintiff has failed to meet his
burden to articulate any facts he could add to the complaint to cure the
deficiencies identified by the Court. 
Therefore, the Court denies leave to amend the seventh cause of action
as to both DH and Menshikova.  
 
With respect to the second and ninth causes of action for
injunctive and declaratory relief, which are not independent causes of action,
but rather equitable remedies, the Court grants Plaintiff’s request to amend
the complaint to request injunctive and declaratory relief as remedies.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court rules as follows:
 
As to Defendants DH and Menshikova:
 
·        
The Court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to the Second
Amended Complaint on the basis of uncertainty.
 
As to Defendant Menshikova:
 
·        
The Court overrules Menshikova’s demurrer to the
fourth cause of action for bad faith waste. 

 
·        
The Court sustains Menshikova’s demurrers to the
first, third, and eighth causes of action for specific performance, breach of
contract, and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
respectively, without leave to amend, on the basis that Plaintiff
concedes there is no contract between Menshikova and Plaintiff.  
 
·        
The Court sustains Menshikova’s demurrers to the
fifth and sixth causes of action for intentional and negligent
misrepresentation, without leave to amend, on the basis that Plaintiff
concedes these causes of action were improper as to Menshikova.
 
·        
The Court sustains Menshikova’s demurrer to the
seventh cause of action for tortious interference with contract, prospective
business advantage without leave to amend on the basis that Plaintiff
has failed to articulate any facts he could add to the complaint to cure the
deficiencies identified by the Court.
 
·        
The Court sustains Menshikova’s demurrers to the
second and ninth causes of action for injunctive relief and declaratory relief,
respectively, on the basis that these are equitable remedies, not causes of
action in their own right.  The Court
grants Plaintiff leave to amend the complaint to request injunctive and
declaratory relief as remedies, as opposed to causes of action.  
 
As to Defendant DH:
 
·        
The Court overrules DH’s demurrer to the fifth
and sixth causes of action for intentional and negligent misrepresentation,
respectively, and overrules DH’s demurrer to the eighth cause of action for
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
·        
The Court sustains DH’s demurrer to the seventh
cause of action for tortious interference with contract, prospective business
advantage without leave to amend, on the basis that Plaintiff has failed
to articulate any facts he could add to the complaint to cure the deficiencies
identified by the Court.
 
·        
The Court sustains DH’s demurrer to the second
and ninth causes of action for injunctive relief and declaratory relief,
respectively, on the basis that these are equitable remedies, not causes of
action in their own right.  The Court
grants Plaintiff leave to amend the complaint to request injunctive and
declaratory relief as remedies, as opposed to causes of action.
 
Plaintiff shall file and serve a third amended complaint in
conformance with the Court’s ruling as to the second and ninth causes of action
only on or before January 2, 2024.
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.
 
 
 
DATED:  December 5, 2023                                                  ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


