 Case Number:  22STCV00450    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
January 5, 2022, Plaintiff Ramses Gonzalez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Mike Leroy Bowen, Ronald Alonza Bowen, and Does 1-50 for
motor vehicle tort and general negligence. 
On
April 28, 2022, the clerk entered Defendant Mike Leroy Bowen’s default. On July
28, 2022, the Court set aside the default. 
On
June 6, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to add Estate of Ronald Alonza
Bowen, Deceased, as Doe 1. 
On
September 12, 2022, Defendants Mike Bowen and
Estate of Ronald Alonza Bowen, Deceased, filed an answer. 
On
September 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Defendants Mike Bowen (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for
motor vehicle tort, general negligence, and “exemplary damages.” 
On
October 2 and 11, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s counsels’ motions to be
relieved as counsel. 
On
November 1, 2023, Defendant filed a motion to strike to be heard on December
13, 2023.  Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for January 8, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
Defendant
requests that the Court strike the requests for exemplary and punitive damages
and the reference to $25,000.00 in the prayer for relief. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.      Motion
to strike 
“Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The Court may “[s]trike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a).)  “The grounds for a motion to
strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading of from any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437, subd. (a).)  “Where the motion to
strike is based on matter of which the court may take judicial notice pursuant
to Section 452 or 453 of the Evidence Code, such matter shall be specified in
the notice of motion, or in the supporting points and authorities, except as the
court may otherwise permit.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (b).) 
“In
order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the
ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a
plaintiff.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255
(Clauson).)  “In passing on the
correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a
pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context,
and assume their truth.”  (Ibid.)  “In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do
not read allegations in isolation.”  (Ibid.) 
B.       Punitive
damages 
          Civil Code section 3294 provides in part: 
“(a) In an action for the breach of an obligation not
arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,
in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example
and by way of punishing the defendant. 
 * * *
“(c) As used in this section, the following
definitions shall apply: 
“(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others. 
“(2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights. 
“(3) “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. . . .” 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subds.
(a), (c).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.      The first
amended complaint 
The first
amended complaint alleges the following: 
On January 10, 2020, on the I-405 northbound just
north of Constitution Avenue in Los Angeles, CA, Defendants
negligently, carelessly and recklessly owned, operated, and/or entrusted a
motor vehicle, causing a collision between Defendants’ vehicle and the motor
vehicle Plaintiff was traveling in. 
Defendant was experiencing
vertigo and loss of vision at the time of the collision. Defendant had
prior knowledge and history of vertigo and knew of the dangers of driving while
experiencing vertigo symptoms.  Defendant, prior to the incident, knew that his
vertigo would be brought upon and/or triggered by stress and, at the time of
the collision, Defendant was overly stressed from his job as a manager of a
co-op. Defendant knew that his stress from his job would lead to a vertigo
episode, yet, despite this knowledge, made the conscious decision to operate
his vehicle, knowing that a vertigo episode was imminent. Defendant’s conduct
was outrageous and supremely reckless. Defendant had significant prior history
of vertigo. He had numerous prior vertigo episodes, including with loss of
vision and, despite significant history of vertigo, never consulted with a
medical professional. 
Defendant knew, prior to the collision, that stress
would cause him to have vertigo and have a loss of vision. Defendant, prior to
the collision and prior to getting into his vehicle, was feeling significant
stress from his work managing a co-op. Defendant knew that he was feeling
stress and that stress would cause him to have vertigo, yet consciously made
the decision to operate his vehicle knowing that a vertigo episode was
imminent. Such conduct constitutes a conscious disregard for the safety of others
and constitutes malice. 
Defendant engaged in the foregoing acts knowingly,
maliciously, wantonly and with reckless disregard for the safety of Plaintiff
and others. Defendant was operating his vehicle with such conscious disregard
for the safety of others that his conduct is to be considered willful and
malicious. Defendant’s conduct, which evidences a clear choice to subject
himself and others on the road to the high probability of an automobile
collision and substantial harm and/or death raises a reasonable inference of a
conscious and callous disregard for the safety of others that constitutes the
type of malice actionable under Code of Civil Procedure section 3924. 
B.       Defendant’s
motion 
1.    Punitive damages request 
Defendant
argues the complaint does not allege facts that support a punitive damage claim
against Defendant. 
In
general, to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, a
plaintiff must plead the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief.
(See Clauson, supra, 67 Cal.App.4th at p. 1255; Grieves v.
Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166; Doe v.
City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550 [“the complaint ordinarily
is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than evidentiary facts”].) 
“In
addition to the requirement that the complaint set forth the elements as stated
in [Civil Code] section 3294, it must include specific factual allegations
showing that defendant's conduct was oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious to
support a claim for punitive damages.” (Today's IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles
County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137,
1193, citing Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872 (Brousseau).)
“Punitive damages may not be pleaded generally.”  (Ibid., citing Brousseau, supra,
73 Cal.App.3d at p. 872.) 
Here,
Defendant asserts: “There are no facts
alleged against Defendant supporting the general contention that Defendant was
distracted, disabled, and/or impaired. Plaintiff provides no facts that led to
the conclusion and only states the conclusory opinion.”  
The
complaint alleges that “Defendant was experiencing vertigo and loss of vision
at the time of the collision.”  The
complaint also alleges that Defendant made a conscious decision to operate his vehicle
even though he knew that a vertigo episode was imminent and knew of the dangers
of driving while experiencing vertigo symptoms, including loss of vision. 
The
Court finds that the complaint adequately alleges that Defendant drove his
vehicle under circumstances which disclose a conscious disregard of the probable
dangerous consequences of driving while experiencing his medical condition.  (Cf. Taylor v. Superior Court (1979)
24 Cal.3d 890, 892 [“the act of operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated may
constitute an act of ‘malice’ under section 3294 if performed under
circumstances which disclose a conscious disregard of the probably dangerous
consequences”].) 
Therefore,
the Court denies the motion to strike the punitive damages claim. 
2.    Reference to $25,000 
Defendant asks the Court to strike the reference in the prayer to damages of “over $25,000.”  In personal injury cases, the complaint is not supposed to state the amount of damages sought.  Moreover, the complaint already
asserts on page 1 that the action is an unlimited civil case.  The Court strikes the reference to “over
$25,000” from the prayer. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES IN PART AND GRANTS IN PART the motion to strike filed by Defendant
Mike Leroy Bowen as follows: 
The
Court DENIES the motion to strike the punitive damages claim and related
allegations. 
The
Court GRANTS the request to strike the reference to “over $25,000” from the
prayer.  The Court strikes the reference
to “over $25,000” without leave to amend. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.