 Case Number:  21STCV24811    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows.  
BACKGROUND 
On
July 6, 2021, Plaintiffs Jane Doe (“Jane Doe”) and John Doe (“John Doe”) filed
this action against Defendants Christopher Maurice Brown aka Chris Brown (“Brown”),
Black Pyramid, LLC (“Black Pyramid”), Doe Homeowners, Doe Landlord, Doe Renter,
Doe Dog Trainer, CB Breeder, and Does 1-100 for “strict liability under dog
bite statute for violation of Civil Code 3342,” “strict liability for injury
caused by domestic animal with dangerous propensities,” strict liability and
negligence per se, premises liability/dangerous condition of property, negligence,
landlord liability for dog bites, negligent infliction of emotional distress,
intentional infliction of emotional distress, and loss of consortium. 
On
June 13, 2022, the Court found that this case (case number 21STCV24811) and case
number 21STCV13947 are related within the meaning of California Rules of Court,
rule 3.300(a).  Case number 21STCV13947 became
the lead case.  The cases were assigned
to Department 28 at Spring Street Courthouse for all purposes. 
On
June 22, 2022, the clerk entered Brown’s default. 
On
August 25, 2022, Brown and Black Pyramid filed an answer. 
On
October 4, 2023, Black Pyramid filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings to
be heard on December 13, 2023. On November 30, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an
opposition. On December 6, 2023, Black Pyramid filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for January 23, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Black
Pyramid requests that the Court grant its motion for judgment on the pleadings on
Plaintiffs’ claims for strict dog-bite liability, premises liability,
negligence, negligent infliction of emotional distress, intentional infliction
of emotional distress (including the claim for punitive damages), and loss of
consortium. 
Plaintiffs
request that the Court deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 438 provides in part: 
“(a) As used in this section: 
“(1) “Complaint” includes a cross-complaint. 
“(2) “Plaintiff” includes a cross-complainant. 
“(3) “Defendant” includes a cross-defendant. 
“(b) (1) A party may move for judgment on the
pleadings. 
* * * 
“(c) (1) The motion provided for in this section may
only be made on one of the following grounds: 
* * * 
“(B) If the moving party is a defendant, that either
of the following conditions exist: 
“(i) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of
the cause of action alleged in the complaint. 
“(ii) The complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against that defendant. 
“(2) The motion provided for in this section may be made
as to either of the following: 
“(A) The entire complaint or cross-complaint or as to
any of the causes of action stated therein. 
* * * 
“(d) The grounds for motion provided for in this
section shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice. Where the motion is
based on a matter of which the court may take judicial notice pursuant to
Section 452 or 453 of the Evidence Code, the matter shall be specified in the
notice of motion, or in the supporting points and authorities, except as the
court may otherwise permit. 
* * * 
“(h) (1) The motion provided for in this section may
be granted with or without leave to file an amended complaint or answer, as the
case may be. 
“(2) Where a motion is granted pursuant to this
section with leave to file an amended complaint or answer, as the case may be,
then the court shall grant 30 days to the party against whom the motion was
granted to file an amended complaint or answer, as the case may be. 
“(3) If the motion is granted with respect to the
entire complaint or answer without leave to file an amended complaint or
answer, as the case may be, then judgment shall be entered forthwith in
accordance with the motion granting judgment to the moving party. . . .” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 438, subds. (a), (b), (c), (d), (h).) 
          ‘‘A motion for judgment on the pleadings performs the same
function as a general demurrer, and [thus] attacks only defects disclosed on
the face of the pleadings or by matters that can be judicially noticed. [Citations.]’
[Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Pointe San Diego Residential Community, L.P. v.
Procopio, Cory, Hargreaves & Savitch, LLP (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th
265, 274.) “In reviewing the motion, [the Court] deem[s] true all properly
pleaded material facts, but not contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact
or law, and [the court] may also consider judicially noticed matters.
[Citation.]” (Bear Creek Master Assn. v. Southern California Investors, Inc. (2018)
28 Cal.App.5th 809, 817.)  
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings “normally lies only for defects fully
disclosed on the face of the pleading under attack or by matters of which
judicial notice may be taken. 
Declarations or other extrinsic matters are improper.  Therefore, the judge hearing the motion
cannot consider discovery admissions or other evidence controverting the
pleadings.  Rather, the pleading under attack must be accepted as true.”  (L. Edmon and C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide:
Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 7:320, pp. 7(l)-95 to 7(l)-96 (Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure).) 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
The
Court denies Black Pyramid’s request for judicial notice.  The grant deed is not relevant to any issue
raised in Black Pyramid’s motion for judgment on the pleadings.  Jane Doe’s application for adjudication of a workers’
compensation claim shows only that Jane Doe believed she might be entitled to
workers’ compensation benefits.  It does
not establish that Black Pyramid was Jane Doe’s employer or that Jane Doe’s claims
against Black Pyramid are subject to the workers’ compensation exclusivity
rule. 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Timeliness 
Plaintiffs
argue the motion is untimely and the Court should not consider it.  Code of Civil Procedure section 438, which became
effective in 1994, imposes time limits on bringing a statutory motion.  (See Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure, supra, ¶¶ 7:277, 7:280, pp. 7(l)-88 & 7(l)-89.)  But “these limitations may be meaningless
because a nonstatutory motion for judgment on the pleadings apparently survives
without such limitations . . . .”  (Id., ¶ 7:277, p. 7(l)-88.)  “A court should be able to decide there is no
valid cause of action at any time.  There
is no point in forcing a case to go to trial because the motion was made too
late” under Code of Civil Procedure section 438.  (Id., ¶ 7:277, p. 7(l)-89; see id.
¶ 7:280, p. 7(l)-89 [court “may convert a
statutory motion into a common law motion since the ‘common law ground for a
motion for judgment on the pleadings is identical to the statutory ground’ ”].) 
The
Court will consider the motion. 
B.   Meet and confer 
Plaintiffs
argue that Black Pyramid failed to meet and confer before filing this motion.  Black Pyramid has submitted a declaration
from its counsel describing his attempt to meet and confer about the issues raised
in the motion. 
Black Pyramid’s counsel sent a letter asking Jane Doe’s counsel to
contact him to discuss the issues, which Black Pyramid’s counsel outlined in
the letter.  According to Black Pyramid’s
counsel, Jane Doe’s counsel did not respond. The Court finds that the meet and
confer effort was adequate. 
C.   Liability under the dog-bite statute 
Black
Pyramid argues that it cannot be liable under the dog-bite statute because it
did not own the dog who bit Jane Doe. 
The
complaint alleges that Black Pyramid owned the dog.  (Complaint ¶ 5.)  On a motion for judgment on the pleadings, “the
pleading under attack must be accepted as true.”  (Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure, supra, ¶ 7:320,
pp. 7(l)-95 to 7(l)-96.)  The Court denies the motion for judgment on the pleadings
on the claim for liability under the dog-bite statute. 
D.   Claims for premises liability, negligence, and
landlord liability 
Black
Pyramid argues that Jane Doe’s claims for
premises liability, negligence, and landlord liability are overlapping and redundant.
 However, even if
these claims are redundant in some sense, this is not a basis for judgment on
the pleadings under Code of Civil Procedure section 438, subdivision (c)(1)(B). The Court denies the motion for judgment on the
pleadings on the claims for premises liability, negligence, and landlord
liability. 
E.   Negligent infliction of emotional distress 
The
complaint alleges that defendants were negligent, that plaintiff suffered
serious emotional distress, and that defendants’ negligence was a substantial
factor in causing the plaintiff’s serious emotional distress.  (Complaint ¶ 68.) 
Black
Pyramid argues that negligent infliction of emotional distress is nothing more
than a claim for negligence.  Black
Pyramid also argues that Jane Doe cannot recover for “bystander” negligent
infliction of emotional distress because she was not a bystander to her own alleged
injury.   
“There
are two distinct common law ‘negligent infliction’ theories, either one of
which may support liability in an appropriate case . . . .”  (Z. Haning et al., Cal. Practice Guide:
Personal Injury (Rutter 2023) ¶ 3:789, p. 3-134 (Cal.
Practice Guide: Personal Injury).)  The
first is “[a] ‘direct victim’ claim alleging emotional distress suffered as a proximate
result of defendant’s conduct directed at plaintiff.”  (Id., ¶ 3:790,
p. 3-134.)  The second is “[a] ‘bystander’
(‘percipient witness’) claim alleging emotional distress as a proximate result
of witnessing defendant’s negligently-inflicted injury upon a person ‘closely
related’ to the plaintiff ‘bystander.’ ” (Id.,
¶ 3:791, p. 3-134.) 
“Negligent
causing of emotional distress is not an independent tort but, rather, rests on
the tort of negligence.  Thus, whether
proceeding on a ‘direct victim’ or a ‘bystander’ theory, plaintiff must state a
prima facie negligence action – i.e., the usual duty, breach, causation and
damages elements apply.”  (Cal. Practice Guide: Personal Injury, supra, ¶
3:793, pp. 3-134 to 3-135.) 
Because
negligent infliction of emotional distress is not an independent tort, the
Court grants the motion for judgment on the pleadings on this claim. 
F.    Intentional infliction of emotional distress 
“A
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress exists when
there is “ ‘ “ ‘ “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the
intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the defendant's outrageous conduct.” ’ ” ’ ” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46
Cal.4th 1035, 1050, quoting Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co.
(1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 1001 (Potter).) 
“A defendant's conduct is ‘outrageous’ when it is so “ ‘ “ ‘extreme as
to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ ” ’ ”
(Id. at pp. 1050-1051, quoting Potter, supra, 6 Cal.4th at
p. 1001.) “And the defendant's conduct must be “ ‘ “ ‘intended to inflict
injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will result.’ ” ’ ” (Ibid.,
quoting Potter, supra, 6 Cal.4th at p. 1001.) 
“
‘The law limits claims of intentional infliction of emotional distress to
egregious conduct toward plaintiff proximately caused by defendant.’ ” (Christiansen
v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 905, quoting Miller v. National
Broadcasting Co. (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 1463, 1489, emphasis omitted.) “The
only exception to this rule is that recognized when the defendant is aware, but
acts with reckless disregard, of the plaintiff and the probability that his or
her conduct will cause severe emotional distress to that plaintiff.”  (Ibid.)  “Where reckless disregard of the plaintiff's
interests is the theory of recovery, the presence of the plaintiff at the time
the outrageous conduct occurs is recognized as the element establishing a
higher degree of culpability which, in turn, justifies recovery of greater
damages by a broader group of plaintiffs than allowed on a negligent infliction
of emotional distress theory.”  (Id.
at pp. 905-906.) 
Black
Pyramid argues that Jane Doe cannot state a claim for intentional infliction of
emotional distress because Black Pyramid (1) did not know Jane Doe, (2) did not
know the dog or know the dog might be dangerous, and (3) did not “sic” the dog
on Jane Doe.  In addition, Black Pyramid
asserts, the complaint does not explain what conduct by Black Pyramid was
outrageous. 
The
Court denies the motion for judgment on the pleadings on the claim for intentional
infliction of emotional distress.  The
complaint alleges that defendants, including Black Pyramid, “were agents,
employees or other representatives and employees of the remaining
co-defendants, and in doing the things hereinafter alleged were acting within
the course and scope of such agency . . . .” 
(Complaint ¶ 14.)  At the pleading
stage, these allegations are sufficient to plead that Black Pyramid, a
corporate entity, acted “intentionally” or with reckless disregard of the
probability of causing emotional distress. 
G.      Loss of consortium claim 
Black
Pyramid argues that John Doe cannot maintain a loss of consortium claim because
his spouse Jane Doe has no valid tort claims against Black Pyramid. The Court
has denied Black Pyramid’s request for judgment on the pleadings on most of the
substantive claims Black Pyramid has challenged.  Therefore, the Court denies Black Pyramid’s
motion for judgment on the pleadings on the loss of consortium claim. 
H.  Punitive damages 
A
claim for punitive damages is not a “cause of action” for purposes of Code of
Civil Procedure section 438, subdivision (c).  Therefore, the Court will not consider Black
Pyramid’s challenge to the prayer for punitive damages. 
I.     Workers’ compensation exclusive remedy 
“Labor
Code section 3600, subdivision (a), provides that, subject to certain
particular exceptions and conditions, workers' compensation liability, ‘in lieu
of any other liability whatsoever’ will exist ‘against an employer for any
injury sustained by his or her employees arising out of and in the course of
the employment.’”  (Fermino v. Fedco,
Inc. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 701, 708, fn. omitted (Fermino).)  “[T]he basis for the exclusivity rule in
workers' compensation law is the ‘presumed “compensation bargain,” pursuant to
which the employer assumes liability for industrial personal injury or death
without regard to fault in exchange for limitations on the amount of that
liability. The employee is afforded relatively swift and certain payment of
benefits to cure or relieve the effects of industrial injury without having to
prove fault but, in exchange, gives up the wider range of damages potentially
available in tort.’ ” (Ibid., quoting Shoemaker v. Myers (1990)
52 Cal.3d 1, 16 (Shoemaker).) 
“[C]ertain
types of injurious employer misconduct remain outside this bargain. There are
some instances in which, although the injury arose in the course of employment,
the employer engaging in that conduct “ ‘ “stepped out of [its] proper role[ ]”
’ ” or engaged in conduct of “ ‘ “questionable relationship to the employment.”
’ ” (Fermino, supra, 7 Cal.4th at p. 708, quoting Shoemaker,
supra, 52 Cal.3d at p. 16.) 
“When
a complaint affirmatively alleges facts indicating coverage by Workers’
Compensation laws but fails to state additional facts negating the application
of the exclusive remedy rule, no civil action will lie and the complaint is
subject to a general demurrer . . . . This pleading requirement is
jurisdictionally-based; if the complaint indicates that the action is within
the scope of the Workers’ Compensation law, the superior court has no
jurisdiction over it unless additional allegations indicate that an exception
to the exclusive remedy rule applies.” (Hughes v. Western MacArthur Co.
(1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 951, 957.) 
The workers’ compensation exclusivity rule protects only a plaintiff’s
employer or other employees of the employer.  (See Ashdown v. Ameron Internat. Corp.
(2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 868, 874 [“Where the ‘conditions of compensation concur,’
the California workers' compensation law provides the exclusive remedy in this
State for the recovery of compensation, from either the employer or any other
employee of the employer acting within the scope of employment, for the injury
or death of an employee ‘arising out of and in the course of the employment’
”].)  The workers’ compensation
exclusivity doctrine “does not preclude the employee from suing anyone else
whose conduct was a proximate cause of the injury.”  (Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5
Cal.4th 689, 697.) 
Black
Pyramid has not established that it was Jane Doe’s employer for purposes of the
workers’ compensation exclusive remedy.  The
Court therefore denies Black Pyramid’s motion for judgment on the pleadings
based on the workers’ compensation exclusive remedy. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS IN PART Defendant Black Pyramid, LLC’s
motion for judgment on the pleadings on Plaintiff Jane Doe’s claim for
negligent infliction of emotional distress with 30 days leave to amend.  
In
all other respects, the Court DENIES Defendant Black Pyramid, LLC’s motion for
judgment on the pleadings. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.