 Case Number:  24STCV05150    Hearing Date:   September 30, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September 30, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Iulia Robinson v. Kittrich Corporation,
et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV05150            
 
DEMURRER
TO ANSWER

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Iulia Robinson
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): No response on
eCourt as of 09/24/24
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for employment discrimination and wrongful termination
that was filed on February 29, 2024. Plaintiff alleges that she was subjected
to pervasive discrimination and harassment based on her gender and medical
condition which ultimately resulted in her termination. 
 
Plaintiff demurs to the answer
jointly filed by Defendants Kittrich Corporation and Robert Friedland.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Demurrer to the Answer
is OVERRULED as to the First, Seventeenth, Eighteenth, Twentieth, and
Twenty-Second through Forty-Fifth Affirmative Defenses and otherwise SUSTAINED
with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
DISCUSSION: 
 
Plaintiff demurs to the answer
jointly filed by Defendants Kittrich Corporation and Robert Friedland as to
each of the forty-five affirmative defenses asserted in the answer.
 
Legal Standard
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.20 provides:
 
A party against whom an
answer has been filed may object, by demurrer as provided in Section 430.30, to
the answer upon any one or more of the following grounds:
 
(a)  The answer does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense.
 
(b)  The
answer is uncertain. As used in this subdivision, “uncertain” includes
ambiguous and unintelligible.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.20.) 
 
            Regarding the standards for pleading
an affirmative defense:
 
 (1) In General. An affirmative defense must
be pleaded in the same manner as if the facts were set forth in a complaint. In
other words, the general requirement of stating the ultimate facts applies and,
where particularity in pleading is necessary in a complaint, it is equally
necessary in an affirmative defense involving the issue. (Bruck v. Tucker (1871) 42 C. 346, 352; Greiss v. State Inv. & Ins. Co. (1893) 98 C. 241, 244, 33 P.
195; Bradbury v. Higginson (1914) 167
C. 553, 557, 140 P. 254 [if matter set up is equitable cause of action, answer
must contain all averments essential to statement of cause of action as such]; see 19B Am.Jur. P.P. Forms (2007 ed.),
Pleading, §85 et seq.)
 
(2) Argumentative Denials. The affirmative
form in which the defendant phrases his or her answering averments does not
make them new matter. If they merely contradict essential allegations of the
complaint, they are simply denials in affirmative form (“argumentative
denials”). (Frisch v. Caler (1862) 21
C. 71, 74; Goddard v. Fulton (1863) 21 C. 430, 436; Rancho Santa Margarita v. Vail (1938) 11 C.2d 501, 543, 81 P.2d
533; Jolley v. Clemens (1938) 28
C.A.2d 55, 65, 82 P.2d 51, supra,
§1077.)
 
(6 Witkin Cal. Proc. Plead § 1122.)
 
            Affirmative defenses that are mere
legal conclusions are insufficient:
 
The
. . . answer alleged merely: “Plaintiff’s claims are barred in whole or in
part by the doctrine of waiver,” and “Plaintiff's causes of action, or some of
them, are barred by the doctrine of laches because plaintiff unreasonably
delayed bringing suit, causing defendants to reasonably rely on the status
quo.”
 
These
affirmative defenses consist of legal conclusions that could survive neither a
demurrer nor a motion for judgment on the pleadings. (Citations omitted.) 
 
(Westly v. Board of Administration
(2003) 105 Cal. App. 4th 1095, 1117.) Rather than being “proffered in the form of terse legal
conclusions,” affirmative defenses must plead facts “averred as carefully and
with as much detail as the facts which constitute the cause of action and are
alleged in the complaint.” (FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384.)
 
Furthermore, a demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a pleading is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures. (See Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only
where the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond--i.e.,
he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied,
or what counts or claims are directed against him or her.  (See Weil &
Brown, Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group) § 7:85 (emphasis in
original).) "The objection of uncertainty does not go to the failure to
allege sufficient facts."  (Brea v. McGlashan (1934) 3
Cal.App.2d 454, 459.) 
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a demurrer, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who has filed the pleading subject to the demurrer and file a declaration
detailing their meet and confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a).)
However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Haroon Manjlai
in support of the demurrer states that counsel for Plaintiff met and conferred
with Defendants’ counsel electronically on June 5, 2024 and telephonically on
June 7, 2024, to no avail. (Declaration of Haroon Manjlai ISO Demurrer ¶¶ 4-5;
Exhs. B-C.) Plaintiff has therefore satisfied the statutory meet and confer
requirements. 
 
Defective Notice of Demurrer
 
            Although
Plaintiff purports to demur to each of the forty-five affirmative defenses
alleged in the Answer, the Demurrer itself only identifies a subset of the
affirmative defenses as deficient for failure to state claims or uncertainty.
Specifically, the Demurrer identifies the first (Demurrer p.2:25-3:20), second
(p.3:21-24); fourth (p.3:25-28), fifth (p.4-1-4), sixth (p.4:5-8), seventh
(p.4:9-12); eighth (p.4:13-5), ninth (p.4:16-19), tenth (p.4:20-23); eleventh
(p.4:24-27); twelfth (p.4:28-5:2), thirteenth (p.5:3-6), fourteenth (p.5:7-10),
fifteenth (p.5:11-15), sixteenth (p.5:16-19), seventeenth (p.5:20-23),
eighteenth (p.5:24-27), nineteenth (p.5:28-6:2), twentieth (p.6:3-6) and
twenty-first (p.6:7-9-6) affirmative defenses as deficient for failure to state
claims and uncertainty, but does not assert similar claims as to the other
affirmative defenses. As Plaintiff did not properly give notice of a challenge
to any of the other affirmative defenses as required, the Court will confine
its analysis only to the affirmative defenses listed above. (See Cal. Rules of
Court Rule 3.1320(a).) The Court will not consider Plaintiff’s arguments on
other grounds or affirmative defenses as they are not asserted in the demurrer
itself.
 
Analysis
 
            Plaintiff
demurs to the first, second, and fourth through twenty-first affirmative
defenses for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense and for
uncertainty. 
 
1.     
First Affirmative Defense: Failure to State
Claim
 
This defense, mislabeled as an
affirmative defense, alleges that Plaintiff’s causes of action fail because
they have failed to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for
each of the causes of action asserted. (Answer p.8:16-19.) “The defense of
failure to state a claim is, in essence, an argument that the plaintiff has not
met its burden of alleging the elements of its claims.” (LL B Sheet 1, LLC
v. Loskutoff (2019) 362 F.Supp. 3d 804, 818.) It is not an affirmative
defense that relies on the pleading of new factual allegations, so it is not
subject to a demurrer that challenges the sufficiency of the underlying
allegations. Accordingly, the demurrer to this defense is not well-taken and is
OVERRULED.
 
2.     
Second Affirmative Defense: Unclean Hands
 
This affirmative defense alleges
that Plaintiff is barred from recovering against Defendants by reason of her
own conduct under the doctrine of unclean hands. (Answer p.8:20-24.) Plaintiff
demurs to this defense for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a
defense. The Court concurs. This defense is merely a conclusory legal assertion
without supporting facts. Defendants have failed to state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense. Accordingly, the demurrer to this defense is SUSTAINED.
 
3.     
Fourth Affirmative Defense: Estoppel
 
This affirmative defense alleges
that Plaintiff is estopped from recovering against Defendants by her own acts,
omissions, or representations. (Answer p.9:6-12.) Plaintiff demurs to this
defense for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. The
Court concurs. This defense is merely a conclusory legal assertion without
supporting facts. Defendants have failed to state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense. Accordingly, the demurrer to this defense is SUSTAINED.
 
4.     
Fifth Affirmative Defense: Failure to Mitigate
 
This defense alleges that
Plaintiff’s recovery should be reduced or barred because she failed to mitigate
her damages. (Answer p.9:13-19.) Plaintiff demurs to this defense for failure
to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. The Court concurs. This
defense is merely a conclusory legal assertion without supporting facts.
Defendants have failed to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. Accordingly,
the demurrer to this defense is SUSTAINED.
5.     
Sixth Affirmative Defense: Lack of Standing
 
This defense, mislabeled as an
affirmative defense, alleges that Plaintiff’s causes of action fail because
Plaintiff lacks standing to bring this action. (Answer p.9:20-22.) Plaintiff
demurs to this defense for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a
defense. The Court concurs. This defense is merely a conclusory legal assertion
without supporting facts. Defendants have failed to state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense. Accordingly, the demurrer to this defense is SUSTAINED.
 
6.     
Seventh Affirmative Defense: Ratification and
Waiver
 
This affirmative defense alleges
that Plaintiff’s claims are barred by the doctrines of ratification and waiver.
(Answer p.9:23-26.) Plaintiff demurs to this defense for failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a defense. The Court concurs. This defense is merely a
conclusory legal assertion without supporting facts. Defendants have failed to
state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. Accordingly, the demurrer to
this defense is SUSTAINED.
 
7.     
Eighth Affirmative Defense: Third-Party
Causation
 
This affirmative defense alleges
that Plaintiff’s claims are barred because her injuries were caused by an
unspecified third party. (Answer p.10:1-5.) Plaintiff demurs to this defense
for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. The Court
concurs. This defense is merely a conclusory legal assertion without supporting
facts. Defendants have failed to state facts sufficient to constitute a
defense. Accordingly, the demurrer to this defense is SUSTAINED.
 
8.     
Ninth Affirmative Defense: No Claim for
Discrimination or Retaliation
 
This affirmative defense alleges
that Plaintiff’s claims are barred because all actions taken by Defendants were
for legitimate, good faith, justified, nondiscriminatory, and non-retaliatory
business reasons. (Answer p.10:6-11.) Plaintiff demurs to this defense for
failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. The Court concurs. This
defense is merely a conclusory legal assertion without supporting facts.
Defendants have failed to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. Accordingly,
the demurrer to this defense is SUSTAINED.
 
9.     
Tenth Affirmative Defense: Good Faith
 
This affirmative defense alleges
that Plaintiff’s claims are barred because all actions taken by Defendants were
reasonable and in good faith. (Answer p.10:12-17.) Plaintiff demurs to this
defense for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. The
Court concurs. This defense is merely a conclusory legal assertion without
supporting facts. Defendants have failed to state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense. Accordingly, the demurrer to this defense is SUSTAINED.
 
10.  Eleventh
Affirmative Defense: Workers’ Compensation
 
This affirmative defense alleges
that Plaintiff’s claims are barred by the exclusive remedies of the Workers’
Compensation Act. (Answer p.10:18-28.) Plaintiff demurs to this defense for
failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. The Court concurs. This
defense is merely a conclusory legal assertion without supporting facts.
Defendants have failed to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. Accordingly,
the demurrer to this defense is SUSTAINED.
 
11.  Twelfth
Affirmative Defense: No Claim for Emotional Distress or Wrongful Termination
 
This affirmative defense alleges
that Plaintiff’s claims for emotional distress are barred because Defendants’
conduct did not contravene public policy or exceed the inherent risks of
employment. (Answer p.11:1-5.) Plaintiff demurs to this defense for failure to
state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. The Court concurs. This defense
is merely a conclusory legal assertion without supporting facts. Defendants
have failed to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. Accordingly, the
demurrer to this defense is SUSTAINED.
 
12.  Thirteenth
Affirmative Defense: Managerial Privilege
 
This affirmative defense alleges
that Plaintiff’s claims are barred by managerial privilege. (Answer p.11:6-11.)
Plaintiff demurs to this defense for failure to state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense. The Court concurs. This defense is merely a conclusory
legal assertion without supporting facts. Defendants have failed to state facts
sufficient to constitute a defense. Accordingly, the demurrer to this defense
is SUSTAINED.
 
13.  Fourteenth
Affirmative Defense: Unlawful Acts Not Ratified
 
This affirmative defense alleges
that Defendants are not liable because any wrongful acts attributed to their
employees were outside the scope of employment and were not ratified by
Defendants. (Answer p.11:12-17.) Plaintiff demurs to this defense for failure
to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. The Court concurs. This
defense is merely a conclusory legal assertion without supporting facts.
Defendants have failed to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. Accordingly,
the demurrer to this defense is SUSTAINED.
 
14.  Fifteenth
Affirmative Defense: Preventative and/or Corrective Opportunities
 
This affirmative defense alleges
that Defendants are not liable because they exercised reasonable care to
prevent or correct any unlawful behavior and Plaintiff failed to take advantage
of any preventative or corrective opportunities which would have prevented
Plaintiff’s injury. (Answer p.11:18-24.) Plaintiff demurs to this defense for
failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. The Court concurs. This
defense is merely a conclusory legal assertion without supporting facts.
Defendants have failed to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. Accordingly,
the demurrer to this defense is SUSTAINED.
 
15.  Sixteenth
Affirmative Defense: No Punitive Damages from Vicarious Liability
 
This affirmative defense alleges
that Defendants are not liable for punitive damages on a theory of vicarious
liability because they maintained a policy against unlawful discrimination.
(Answer p.12:1-5.) Plaintiff demurs to this defense for failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a defense. The Court concurs. Maintenance of a policy
against unlawful discrimination does not render an employer categorically
shielded from punitive damages on a theory of vicarious liability. Defendants
have failed to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. Accordingly, the
demurrer to this defense is SUSTAINED.
 
16.  Seventeenth
Affirmative Defense: Punitive Damages
 
This defense, mislabeled as an
affirmative defense, alleges that Plaintiff has not stated facts sufficient to
support a claim for punitive damages, and challenges the propriety of the
punitive damages statutes under the United States and California Constitutions.
(Answer p.12:6-13.) Plaintiff demurs to this defense for failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a defense. “The defense of failure to state a claim
is, in essence, an argument that the plaintiff has not met its burden of
alleging the elements of its claims.” (LL B Sheet 1, LLC v. Loskutoff
(2019) 362 F.Supp. 3d 804, 818.) It is not an affirmative defense that relies
on the pleading of new factual allegations, so it is not subject to a demurrer
that challenges the sufficiency of the underlying allegations. Accordingly, the
demurrer to this defense is not well-taken and is OVERRULED.
 
17.  Eighteenth
Affirmative Defense: Failure to Exhaust Administrative Remedies
 
This affirmative defense states
that Plaintiff’s recovery is barred for failure to exhaust administrative
remedies. (Answer p.12:14-20.) Plaintiff demurs to this defense for failure to
state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. As to this defense, however,
the Court finds that additional allegations are not required. This defense is
an argumentative denial of the allegations in the Complaint, and therefore does
not require Defendant to allege additional facts in support. Accordingly, the
demurrer to this defense is not well-taken and is OVERRULED.
 
18.  Nineteenth
Affirmative Defense: After-Acquired Evidence
 
This affirmative defense states
that Plaintiff’s recovery is barred to the extent that Defendant has discovered
facts or may later discovery facts, which, if known to Defendant before
Plaintiff’s termination, would have created an additional basis for the
termination. (Answer p.12:22-27.) Plaintiff demurs to this defense for failure
to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. The Court concurs. This
defense is merely a conclusory legal assertion without supporting facts.
Defendants have failed to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. Accordingly,
the demurrer to this defense is SUSTAINED.
 
19.  Twentieth
Affirmative Defense: No Claim for Discrimination or Retaliation
 
This defense, mislabeled as an
affirmative defense, alleges that Defendants did not commit the acts alleged in
the Complaint, but, even if they had, would have taken the same actions for
legitimate, non-discriminatory, non-retaliatory, and non-pretextual reasons.
(Answer p.13:1-7.) Plaintiff demurs to this defense for failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a defense. As to this defense, however, the Court does
not find that additional allegations are not required. This defense is an
argumentative denial of the allegations in the Complaint, and therefore does
not require Defendant to allege additional facts in support. Accordingly, the
demurrer to this defense is not well-taken and is OVERRULED.
 
20.  Twenty-First
Affirmative Defense: Complaint filed in Bad Faith
 
This affirmative defense alleges
that the Complaint was brought without reasonable care and a good faith belief
that there was a justifiable controversy. (Answer p.13:8-15.) Plaintiff demurs
to this defense for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense. The
Court concurs. This defense is merely a conclusory legal assertion without
supporting facts. Defendants have failed to state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense. Accordingly, the demurrer to this defense is SUSTAINED.
 
21.  Uncertainty
 
            Plaintiff
demurs to each of the defenses addressed above for uncertainty. The Court
rejects Plaintiff’s contentions. Even the affirmative defenses which are
defective, as addressed above, are not so deficient as to meet the much
stricter standard for uncertainty. 
 
Leave to Amend
 
            When a
demurrer is sustained, the Court determines whether there is a reasonable
possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) California law imposes the burden on the party
who filed the pleading to demonstrate the manner in which they can amend their
pleadings to state their claims.  (See Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of leave to amend constitutes an abuse of
discretion unless the [pleading] shows on its face it is incapable of
amendment.  [Citation.]  Liberality in permitting amendment is the
rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given."
(Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
 
            Here,
Defendants have not shown the manner in which they could amend the answer to
properly state their defenses against Plaintiff’s claims. However, in light of
the liberal standard for permitting amendment of the pleadings, and the defects
in the answer arising merely from a paucity of alleged facts, the Court will
exercise its discretion to grant leave to amend the answer.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Demurrer to the Answer is OVERRULED as to the First, Seventeenth,
Eighteenth, Twentieth, and Twenty-Second through Forty-Fifth Affirmative
Defenses and otherwise SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  September 30,
2024                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 