 Case Number:  21STCV40954    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  On  November 8, 2021, Plaintiff Maria I. Rojas (“Plaintiff”) filed this action  against Defendants Bre Encino Owner LLC (“Bre Owner”), Bre Imagination Pooled  Retail II LLC (“Bre Retail”), The Whiting-Turner Contracting Company (“Whiting”),  and Does 1-50 for general negligence and premises liability.  On  April 6, 2022, Whiting filed an answer and a cross-complaint against  Cross-Defendants Roes 1-100 for implied indemnity, contribution, and  declaratory relief.  On  April 27, 2022, Bre Owner and Bre Retail filed an answer.  On  January 26, 2023, Bre Owner and Bre Retail filed a cross-complaint against  Cross-Defendants Allied Universal Risk Advisory and Consulting Services, Inc.,  Andrew International, Inc., and Roes 1-25 for equitable indemnity, equitable  apportionment, contribution, express indemnity, and declaratory relief.  On March 8, 2023, Bre Owner and Bre Retail  amended the cross-complaint to include Cross-Defendant Universal Protection  Service, LP, as Roe 1.  On April 14, 2023,  Cross-Defendant Universal Protection Service, LP dba Allied Universal Security  Services (erroneously sued as Allied Universal Risk Advisory and Consulting  Services, Inc. and Andrew International, Inc.) (“Allied”) filed an answer.  On  April 12, 2024, Bre Owner and Bre Retail (“Moving Defendants”) filed a motion  for an order specially setting a hearing on their motion for summary judgment  or, alternatively, an order continuing the trial and related dates and  deadlines.  The motion was set for  hearing on May 20, 2024.  On May 3, 2024,  Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On May 7,  2024, Allied filed a joinder in the motion.   On May 10, 2024, Moving Defendants filed a reply.  Trial  is currently scheduled for July 22, 2024.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Moving  Defendants ask the Court to specially set the hearing on their motion for summary  judgment before the currently scheduled hearing date of December 11, 2024 and  within thirty (30) days of the July 22, 2024 trial date, or, alternatively, to  continue the trial to a date that is not less than thirty days after the  presently scheduled December 11, 2024 hearing on the motion for summary  judgment and to continue or reopen discovery and related dates.  Allied joins the request.  Plaintiff  asks the Court to deny the motion.  LEGAL STANDARD  A.   Motion to continue trial  California  Rules of Court, rule 3.1332 provides:  “(a) Trial dates are firm  “To ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the  dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard  the date set for trial as certain.  “(b) Motion or application  “A party seeking a continuance of the date set for  trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must  make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte  application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting  declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon as  reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.  “(c) Grounds for continuance  “Although continuances of trials are disfavored, each  request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits. The court may  grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the  continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good cause include:  “(1)  The  unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,  or other excusable circumstances;  “(2)  The  unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable  circumstances;  “(3)  The  unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable  circumstances;  “(4)  The  substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing  that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;  “(5)  The  addition of a new party if:  “(A)  The new  party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for  trial; or  “(B)  The other  parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare  for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case;  “(6)  A party's  excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material  evidence despite diligent efforts; or  “(7)  A  significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of  which the case is not ready for trial.  “(d) Other factors to be considered  “In ruling on a motion or application for continuance,  the court must consider all the facts and circumstances that are relevant to  the determination. These may include:  “(1)  The  proximity of the trial date;  “(2)  Whether  there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to  any party;  “(3)  The length  of the continuance requested;  “(4)  The  availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the  motion or application for a continuance;  “(5)  The  prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance;  “(6)  If the  case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status  and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;  “(7)  The  court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending  trials;  “(8)  Whether  trial counsel is engaged in another trial;  “(9)  Whether  all parties have stipulated to a continuance;  “(10)  Whether  the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the  matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and  “(11)  Any other  fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or  application.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule  3.1332.)  B.       Request  to continue or reopen discovery  Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.020 provides:  “(a) Except  as otherwise provided in this chapter, any party shall be entitled as a matter  of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day, and to  have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day, before the  date initially set for the trial of the action.  “(b) Except  as provided in Section 2024.050, a continuance or postponement of the trial  date does not operate to reopen discovery proceedings.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020.)  Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050 provides:  “(a) On  motion of any party, the court may grant leave to complete discovery  proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard, closer to the  initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date has been set.  This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section  2016.040.  “(b) In  exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion, the court shall take  into consideration any matter relevant to the leave requested, including, but  not limited to, the following:  “(1) The  necessity and the reasons for the discovery.  “(2) The  diligence or lack of diligence of the party seeking the discovery or the  hearing of a discovery motion, and the reasons that the discovery was not  completed or that the discovery motion was not heard earlier.  “(3) Any  likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing the discovery motion will  prevent the case from going to trial on the date set, or otherwise interfere  with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any other party.  “(4) The  length of time that has elapsed between any date previously set, and the date  presently set, for the trial of the action.  “(c) The  court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section  2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or  opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery, unless it finds that the one  subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other  circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050.)  DISCUSSION  Moving  Defendants served a timely motion for summary judgment.  If not for the Court’s impacted calendar, the  motion would have been set for hearing before trial. Similarly, because of the  Court’s calendar, the Court cannot specially set the hearing on a date before  the currently-scheduled trial.  “A  trial court may not refuse to hear a summary judgment motion filed within the  time limits of section 437c. [Citation.] Local rules and practices may not be  applied so as to prevent the filing and hearing of such a motion. [Citation.].”  (Sentry Ins. Co. v. Superior Court  (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 529.)  The  Court finds good cause and continues the trial to a date after the scheduled  summary judgment motion.  Discovery and  related deadlines will be based on the new trial date.  CONCLUSION  The  Court GRANTS the motion for an order specially setting a hearing on the motion for summary judgment or, alternatively, an order continuing the trial  and related dates and deadlines filed by Defendants Bre Encino  Owner LLC and Bre Imagination Pooled Retail II LLC.  The Court  continues the trial to January 17, 2025, at 8:30 p.m. in Department 28 of the  Spring Street Courthouse. The Final Status Conference is January 7, 2025, at  10:00 a.m. in Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse. All discovery and  related dates will be based on the new trial date.  Moving  parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.