 Case Number:  22STCV02318    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
January 19, 2022, Plaintiff Eddie G. Folero (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Ralphs Grocery Company and Does 1-25 for general negligence,
products liability, and premises liability. 
On
November 16, 2022, Defendant Alpha Beta Company dba
Ralphs (incorrectly named and served as Ralphs Grocery Company) (“Defendant”)
filed an answer. 
On
November 2, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment to be heard on
January 19, 2024. On December 1, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s unopposed
ex parte application to continue the hearing on Defendant’s summary judgment
motion and continued the hearing to May 13, 2024.  The Court later continued the hearing to May
20, 2024.  On April 29, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an opposition to the summary judgment motion. On May 8, 2024, Defendant
filed a reply. 
Trial
is scheduled for September 11, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to grant summary judgment. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny summary judgment. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.
     Summary judgment 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos
Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar)) “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima
facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.) 
When
the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot
establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must
“present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.)
Thus, “the defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with
evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to
interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may
‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence
that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The
defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the
plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered
nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original emphasis.) 
“Supporting
and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be
excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as
hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in
supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
In
addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth plainly and
concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed.
Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the
supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) The party opposing the motion must
file with the opposition papers “a separate statement that responds to each of
the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating
whether the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed.
The statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material
facts that the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact
contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(b)(3).)  If either party fails to comply with the applicable
separate statement requirement, that failure may in the court’s discretion
constitute a sufficient ground to decide the motion adversely to the offending
party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(1), (3).)  
In
ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the
inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and
inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) 
B.   Negligence
and premises liability 
 “The
elements of a negligence claim and a premises liability claim are the same: a
legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in
injury.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1159.) 
“Landowners
under California law are required to maintain land in their possession and
control in a reasonably safe condition.” 
(Williams v. Fremont Corners, Inc. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 654, 663
(Williams), citing Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Center (1993)
6 Cal.4th 666, 674 (Ann M.).) 
“The underlying principle, set forth in Civil Code section 1714,
subdivision (a), is that “‘[e]veryone is responsible ... for an injury
occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management
of his or her property or person . . . .’” (Ibid.)  This rule “‘establishes the general duty of
each person to exercise, in his or her activities, reasonable care for the
safety of others.’” (Ibid., quoting Vasilenko v. Grace Family Church
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 1077, 1083 (Vasilenko); see Brown v. USA Taekwondo
(2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 214 (Brown).) 
“ ‘
“ ‘Courts ... invoke[ ] the concept of duty to limit generally “the otherwise
potentially infinite liability which would follow from every negligent act
....” ’ ” ’ ” (Williams, supra, 37 Cal.App.5th at p. 663, quoting
Vasilenko, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 1083.) “Our Supreme Court has
explained that an exception to the general rule of Civil Code section 1714 must
be “ ‘ “ ‘clearly supported by public policy.’ ” ’ ” (Ibid., quoting Vasilenko,
supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 1083.) “Courts look to what are commonly called ‘the Rowland
factors’ in determining whether policy considerations favor such an exception.”
(Ibid., citing Vasilenko, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p.
1083.)  “These are “ ‘ “the
foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff, the degree of certainty that the
plaintiff suffered injury, the closeness of the connection between the
defendant's conduct and the injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the
defendant's conduct, the policy of preventing future harm, the extent of the
burden to the defendant and consequences to the community of imposing a duty to
exercise care with resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost,
and prevalence of insurance for the risk involved.” (Rowland [v. Christian
(1968)] 69 Cal.2d [108,] 113, 70 Cal.Rptr. 97, 443 P.2d 561 [(Rowland)].)’
” (Ibid., quoting Vasilenko, supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 1083.) 
In
considering the Rowland factors, the court “determine[s] ‘not whether
they support an exception to the general duty of reasonable care on the facts
of the particular case before us, but whether carving out an entire category of
cases from that general duty rule is justified by clear considerations of
policy.’ ”  (Regents of University of
California v. Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th 607, 629.) 
In
addition, “[c]ausation is an essential element of plaintiff’s complaint.”  (Christoff v. Union Pacific Railroad Co.
(2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 118, 126 (Christoff).)  “Causation may be determined as a question of
law if reasonable minds would not differ.” 
(Ibid.)  “If causation is
lacking, the complaint cannot stand.”  (Ibid.
[“the trial court’s ruling of lack of causation disposes of the entire
complaint and suffices to affirm summary judgment in favor of defendant”].) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following: 
On
January 23, 2020, Plaintiff used the water vending machine at Defendant’s store
in Long Beach.  He filled a glass bottle
he had brought with hm and put it on a shopping cart, which he pushed along the
sidewalk toward the parking lot.  When he
reached the end of the sidewalk, he pushed the shopping cart slowly over the
edge of the sidewalk curb.  The shopping
cart tipped and overturned.  The glass
bottle struck the parking lot surface and shattered.  Plaintiff was injured when he fell on pieces
of the broken glass. 
Defendants
failed to provide safe access to the parking lot from the sidewalk, creating a
dangerous condition.  Defendants also
failed to warn Plaintiff of the dangers posed by using heavily loaded shopping
carts to cross over the sidewalk curb. 
B.   Undisputed facts 
On
January 23, 2021, at approximately 4:05 p.m., Plaintiff entered the Ralphs
Store No. 251 located at 2930 E. 4th Street, Long Beach, California 90814. Plaintiff
had parked his vehicle in the parking lot on the side of the store where the
deliveries are received around the corner of the entrance.  At approximately 4:23 p.m., Plaintiff exited
the store with one shopping bag in his right hand. He walked down the sidewalk
adjacent to the store to the parking lot located on the south side of the store. 
Plaintiff
had brought his own two water bottles to be filled at the Glacier water
dispensary that was located right outside the entrance of the store.  Before the
incident, Plaintiff would get water from the Glacier water dispensary at the
entrance of the store every two weeks.  Plaintiff
was familiar with the store, its parking lot and the sidewalk adjacent to the
parking lot because he shopped there at least three times a week. 
Both
water bottles held 5 gallons of water, but one was made of plastic and the
other one was made of glass.  At 4:25
p.m., Plaintiff carried the plastic water bottle to the Glacier water
dispensary that was located at the entrance of the store and filled it with
water.  At 4:27 p.m., Plaintiff carried this plastic
bottle, which was lighter, down the sidewalk adjacent to the store and walked
over the curb to his vehicle. 
While
Plaintiff was carrying the plastic water bottle, there was (1) no debris or
trash on the sidewalk or the curb, (2) no other objects on the sidewalk or curb
that obstructed Plaintiff's path to his vehicle, and (3) no water of other liquid
substance on the sidewalk or curb that
obstructed his path to his vehicle.  No one was preventing
him from getting to his vehicle by standing
in his way on the sidewalk or curb. 
According
to the video surveillance footage, while he was carrying the plastic bottle to
his vehicle, Plaintiff did not slip or fall on the sidewalk or over its curb
during this time. 
At
4:28 p.m., Plaintiff brought his glass bottle to the Glacier water vending
machine at the entrance of the store. He filled this bottle with water and
placed it in the shopping cart to transport it to his vehicle. Plaintiff used a shopping cart to transport the glass
water bottle because it was too heavy for him to carry.  Plaintiff generally used a shopping cart to
transport the glass water bottle to his vehicle because it was heavier. Once
Plaintiff filled the glass water bottle, he placed it in the shopping cart
using both of his arms. 
When
Plaintiff first started pushing the shopping cart with the glass bottle, he did
not experience any problems with the shopping cart. 
While
Plaintiff was pushing the shopping cart, (1) there was no debris or trash on
the sidewalk or curb that would have obstructed his path to his vehicle, (2) there
were no other objects on the sidewalk or curb that would have obstructed his
path to his vehicle, and (3) there was no water or other liquid substances on
the sidewalk or curb that would have obstructed his path to his vehicle.
 While
Plaintiff was pushing the cart, no one blocked his path to his vehicle by
standing in Plaintiff's way on the sidewalk or curb. 
The video
surveillance shows that at 4:31 p.m., when
Plaintiff attempted to push the shopping cart over the curb of the sidewalk,
the shopping cart tilted.  At that time,
Plaintiff was not in a hurry.  Plaintiff viewed the sidewalk as the easiest
route distance-wise to the parking area.  Plaintiff usually would walk to the end of the
sidewalk to get to his vehicle. 
Plaintiff
does not remember pushing the shopping cart over the curb of the sidewalk to
get to his vehicle with the glass bottle.  Plaintiff remembers the cart tilting and
trying to gain control of the cart. Plaintiff was thrown over the cart above
and sideways of the cart, but the cart did not hit him.  Plaintiff fell and ended up on the ground
because of the "momentum" of the cart tilting over the curb of the
sidewalk.  Plaintiff was on the ground
less than 60 seconds.  After he fell, Plaintiff was able to sit up
and enter his vehicle because when he landed, he was inches from its end. 
There
have been no other incidents at the store that involved a customer tripping and
falling over the curb of the sidewalk adjacent to the store. Prior to the
Plaintiff's incident, there had been no other incidents involving a shopping
cart tilting over the curb of the sidewalk
adjacent to the store. 
During
her tenure as the Store Leader, Ms. Kirkpatrick never had any reason to believe
that the curb of the sidewalk adjacent to the store presented a hazard to its
customers. 
Defendant
had no notice of Plaintiff's incident that day until one of his family members
contacted the store at approximately 6:30 p.m. to report the incident. 
In
responses to form interrogatories, Plaintiff indicated that he had no witnesses
or witness statements. 
C.   Defendant has not carried its initial summary judgment burden
“As
a general rule, an owner or possessor of land owes no duty to warn of obvious
dangers on the property.”  (Christoff,
supra, 134 Cal.App.4th at p. 126.) “There is no duty to warn of
an obvious danger but the possessor of land does have a duty to warn an invitee
not only of conditions known by him to be dangerous but also of conditions
which might have been found dangerous by the exercise of ordinary care.  [Citation.] The invitor may assume that an
invitee will perceive that which would be obvious to him through the ordinary
use of his senses.  [Citation.]” (Beauchamp
v. Los Gatos Golf Course (1969) 273 Cal.App.2d 20, 27.) 
Defendant
appears to argue that the allegedly “dangerous condition” whose existence Plaintiff
alleges – lack of safe access to the parking lot from the sidewalk – was open
and obvious, relieving Defendant of the duty to remedy or to warn.  Defendant, however, has not presented
evidence that carries its initial burden on summary judgment.  Defendant has provided only argument that the
proximity of the curb and the sidewalk was open and obvious. 
For
the same reason, Defendant has not carried its initial burden of showing that (1)
any defect in the property was trivial or (2) Plaintiff cannot present evidence
to support his claims.  Defendant has not
presented evidence showing the physical characteristics of the sidewalk and
curb, the distance between the curb and the parking lot and other potentially
relevant matters.  Defendant also does
not present evidence negating Plaintiff’s assertion that the presence and features
of the shopping cart contributed to the dangerous condition. 
Defendant
asks the Court to grant summary judgment because the claims for premises liability
and negligence are duplicative.  Because Defendant
has not moved for summary adjudication of specific claims, the Court declines
to address this argument. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES the motion for summary judgment filed by Defendant Alpha Beta
Company dba Ralphs (incorrectly named and served as Ralphs Grocery Company). 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days. 