  Case Number:  20STCV35988    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
A.   Prior proceedings 
On
September 21, 2020, Plaintiff Larysa Kotandzhyan (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Broutian Family Trust
(“Trust”), Harout Broutian as an individual and as Trustee of the Broutian
Family Trust (“Broutian”), and Does 1-50 for general negligence and premises
liability. On August 28, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to include
Defendant Albro, LLC (“Albro”) as Doe 1.  On January 23, 2024, Plaintiff amended the complaint
to include Defendant Broutian Enterprises, Inc. (“Enterprises”) as Doe 2. 
On
December 17, 2020, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint. 
On
March 19, 2021, Broutian (in his individual capacity) filed an answer and a
cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Roes 1-20 for indemnification,
apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief. 
On January 18, 2024, Broutian (in his individual capacity) amended the cross-complaint
to include Cross-Defendant Ovanes Sahakian (“Sahakian”) as Roe 1. 
On
November 6, 2023, Albro filed an answer and a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants Moes 1-100 for indemnification, apportionment of fault, and
declaratory relief.  On January 18, 2024, Albro amended the cross-complaint
to include Cross-Defendant Sahakian as Moe 1. 
On
April 15, 2024, the Court dismissed Sahakian without prejudice from the cross-complaints
filed by Broutian and Albro at their request. 
B.   These motions 
On
March 1, 2024, Enterprises, specially appearing, filed a motion to dismiss or,
in the alternative, to quash service to be heard on May 3, 2024. 
Also
on March 1, 2024, Harout Broutian, in his capacity as Trustee (“Trustee”), and
Trust, specially appearing, filed a motion to dismiss or, in the alternative,
to quash service to be heard on May 3, 2024. 
The
Court continued the hearings to May 20, 2024. 
On
May 9, 2024, the moving parties, specially appearing, filed notices of non-opposition. 
Trial
is currently set for December 6, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Enterprises
asks the Court to dismiss Plaintiff’s complaint against it or, in the
alternative, quash service of the complaint on it. 
Trustee
and Trust ask the Court to dismiss Plaintiff’s complaint against them or, in
the alternative, quash service of the complaint on them. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 474 provides: 
“When the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a
defendant, he must state that fact in the complaint, or the affidavit if the
action is commenced by affidavit, and such defendant may be designated in any
pleading or proceeding by any name, and when his true name is discovered, the
pleading or proceeding must be amended accordingly; provided, that no default
or default judgment shall be entered against a defendant so designated, unless
it appears that the copy of the summons or other process, or, if there be no
summons or process, the copy of the first pleading or notice served upon such
defendant bore on the face thereof a notice stating in substance: ‘To the
person served: You are hereby served in the within action (or proceedings) as
(or on behalf of) the person sued under the fictitious name of (designating
it).’ The certificate or affidavit of service must state the fictitious name
under which such defendant was served and the fact that notice of identity was
given by endorsement upon the document served as required by this section. The
foregoing requirements for entry of a default or default judgment shall be
applicable only as to fictitious names designated pursuant to this section and
not in the event the plaintiff has sued the defendant by an erroneous name and
shall not be applicable to entry of a default or default judgment based upon
service, in the manner otherwise provided by law, of an amended pleading,
process or notice designating defendant by his true name.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 474.) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 583.210 provides: 
“(a) The summons and complaint shall be served upon a
defendant within three years after the action is commenced against the
defendant. For the purpose of this subdivision, an action is commenced at the
time the complaint is filed. 
“(b) Proof of service of the summons shall be filed
within 60 days after the time the summons and complaint must be served upon a
defendant.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 583.210.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 583.250 provides: 
“(a) If service is not made in an action within the
time prescribed in this article: 
“(1) The action shall not be further prosecuted and no
further proceedings shall be held in the action. 
“(2) The action shall be dismissed by the court on its
own motion or on motion of any person interested in the action, whether named
as a party or not, after notice to the parties. 
“(b) The requirements of this article are mandatory
and are not subject to extension, excuse, or exception except as expressly
provided by statute.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 583.250.) 
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE          
                    Granted: A-E
                    Denied: F-J 
DISCUSSION
 A.   Broutian Enterprises 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 474 “includes an implicit requirement that a
plaintiff may not ‘unreasonably delay’ his or her filing of a Doe amendment
after learning a defendant's identity.” 
(A.N. v. County of Los Angeles (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1058,
1066-1067, citing Barrows v. American Motors Corp. (1983) 144 Cal.App.3d
1, 7-10 (Barrows).)  “[A]
defendant named in an action by a Doe amendment under section 474 may challenge
the amendment by way of an evidence-based motion, which argues that the
plaintiff ‘unreasonable delayed’ his or her filing of the challenged amendment.”  (Ibid.)  “ ‘[U]nreasonable delay’ within the meaning of
‘Barrows’ includes a prejudice element, which requires a showing by the
defendant that he or she would suffer prejudice from plaintiff's delay in
filing the Doe amendment.”  (Ibid.;
see id. at p. 1067 [“We see no reasonable explanation in the record for
A.N.'s roughly two-year delay in filing and serving the Doe amendments”].) 
Here,
Enterprises has submitted evidence showing that Plaintiff unreasonably delayed
in naming Enterprises as a Doe defendant, prejudicing Enterprises.  On December 10, 2020, Enterprises’ counsel advised
Plaintiff’s counsel that Enterprises was the proper
party to be named in the case and asked Plaintiff to amend the complaint to
name Enterprises as the correct defendant. 
(Declaration of Romain Duong ¶ 4.) 
However, Plaintiff did not amend the complaint (filed on September 21, 2020) to add Enterprises until January
23, 2024.  As a result of the delay in naming Enterprises as a Doe defendant, Enterprises had insufficient time to prepare its defense and move
for summary judgment. 
The
Court finds that Enterprises has shown that Plaintiff unreasonably delayed in
naming Enterprises as a Doe defendant, prejudicing Enterprises.  Therefore, the Court grants Enterprises’
motion and dismisses it from the case. 
B.   The Trustee and Trust 
The Trustee
and Trust argue that Plaintiff did not serve the summons and complaint on them
within three years after filing the complaint.  Instead, Plaintiff served Broutian in his
individual capacity only.  Therefore, the
Trustee and Trust argue, the Court should dismiss the case against them under
Code of Civil Procedure sections 583.210 and 583.250. 
The
Court finds that Plaintiff did not serve the Trustee and Trust within three
years of filing the complaint on September 21, 2020.  Therefore, the Court dismisses Plaintiff’s claims
against the Trustee and Trust under Code
of Civil Procedure sections 583.210 and 583.250. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion to dismiss filed by Defendant Broutian Enterprises, Inc.  The Court
dismisses Plaintiff’s first amended complaint against Defendant Broutian
Enterprises, Inc. with prejudice. 
The
Court GRANTS the motion to dismiss filed by Defendants Harout Broutian as
Trustee of the Broutian Family Trust and Broutian Family Trust.  The Court dismisses Plaintiff’s first amended
complaint against Defendants Harout Broutian as Trustee of the Broutian Family
Trust and Broutian Family Trust with prejudice. 
Moving parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling.