 Case Number:  22STCV01663    Hearing Date:   May 20, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, reply, and supplemental papers, the Court  rules as follows.  BACKGROUND  On  January 14, 2022, Plaintiff Marguerita Ludwig (“Plaintiff”) filed this action  against Defendants Richard Lam (“Richard Lam”), Helen Lam (“Helen Lam”), Amy  Lam (“Amy Lam”), 380 Sierra Madre, LLC (“380 Sierra Madre”), Lam Property  Management (“Management”), Estate of William Jordison, and Does 1-45 for  premises liability.  On  October 11, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to change the name of  Defendant Estate of William Jordison to Estate of William Jordison, Deceased.  On  December 16, 2022, Defendant Estate of William Jordison, Deceased (“Estate”)  filed an answer.  On  March 15, 2023, Richard Lam, Helen Lam, Amy Lam, 380 Sierra Madre, and  Management filed an answer and a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants  Estate and Roes 1-10 for declaratory relief, implied partial indemnity, and  equitable apportionment.  On  May 19, 2023, the Estate filed an answer to the cross-complaint.  On  November 30, 2023, the Estate filed a motion for determination of good faith  settlement.  On December 19, 2023,  Richard Lam, Helen Lam, Amy Lam, 380 Sierra Madre, and Management (“Lam  Defendants”) filed an opposition. On December 26, 2023, the Estate filed a  reply.  The Court continued the hearing  from January 3, 2024 to January 29, 2024.  On January 29, 2024, the Court issued a  tentative ruling, heard argument, and continued the hearing to March 1, 2024.  The Court later continued the hearing to May  20, 2024.  On  February 23, 2024, the Estate and Plaintiff filed additional declarations  supporting the motion for a good faith settlement determination.  On May 9, 2024, Michael Jordison, William  Jordison’s son, filed another declaration.  Trial  is currently scheduled for August 28, 2024.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  The Estate  asks the Court to find that its settlement with Plaintiff for $100,000 is in  good faith.  The  Lam Defendants ask the Court to deny the motion.  LEGAL STANDARD   A.   Good faith settlement  Code  of Civil Procedure section 877.6 provides in part:  “(a) (1) Any party to an action in which it is alleged  that two or more parties are joint tortfeasors or co-obligors on a contract  debt shall be entitled to a hearing on the issue of the good faith of a  settlement entered into by the plaintiff or other claimant and one or more  alleged tortfeasors or co-obligors, upon giving notice in the manner provided  in subdivision (b) of Section 1005. Upon a showing of good cause, the court may  shorten the time for giving the required notice to permit the determination of  the issue to be made before the commencement of the trial of the action, or  before the verdict or judgment if settlement is made after the trial has  commenced.  “(2) In the alternative, a settling party may give  notice of settlement to all parties and to the court, together with an  application for determination of good faith settlement and a proposed order.  The application shall indicate the settling parties, and the basis, terms, and  amount of the settlement. The notice, application, and proposed order shall be  given by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by personal service.  Proof of service shall be filed with the court. Within 25 days of the mailing  of the notice, application, and proposed order, or within 20 days of personal  service, a nonsettling party may file a notice of motion to contest the good  faith of the settlement. If none of the nonsettling parties files a motion  within 25 days of mailing of the notice, application, and proposed order, or  within 20 days of personal service, the court may approve the settlement. The  notice by a nonsettling party shall be given in the manner provided in  subdivision (b) of Section 1005. However, this paragraph shall not apply to  settlements in which a confidentiality agreement has been entered into  regarding the case or the terms of the settlement.  “(b) The issue of the good faith of a settlement may  be determined by the court on the basis of affidavits served with the notice of  hearing, and any counteraffidavits filed in response, or the court may, in its  discretion, receive other evidence at the hearing.  “(c) A determination by the court that the settlement  was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or co-obligor from  any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or co-obligor for equitable  comparative contribution, or partial or comparative indemnity, based on  comparative negligence or comparative fault.  “(d) The party asserting the lack of good faith shall  have the burden of proof on that issue. . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6,  subds. (a), (b), (c), (d).)  In Tech-Bilt,  Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499 (Tech-Bilt),  the California Supreme Court identified the following nonexclusive factors  courts must consider in determining if a settlement is in good faith under  section 877.6: “a rough approximation of plaintiffs' total recovery and the  settlor's proportionate liability, the amount paid in settlement, the  allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs, and a recognition that a  settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he were found liable  after a trial. Other relevant considerations include the financial conditions  and insurance policy limits of settling defendants, as well as the existence of  collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of  nonsettling defendants.”  The  evaluation of a settlement is “made on the basis of information available at  the time of settlement.”  (Tech-Bilt,  supra, 38 Cal.3d at p. 499.)  B.   Action to establish insured decedent’s liability  Probate  Code section 550 provides:  “(a) Subject to the provisions of this chapter, an  action to establish the decedent’s liability for which the decedent was  protected by insurance may be commenced or continued against the decedent’s  estate without the need to join as a party the decedent’s personal  representative or successor in interest.  “(b) The remedy provided in this chapter is cumulative  and may be pursued concurrently with other remedies.”  (Prob. Code, § 550, emphasis  added.)  The  Law Revision Commission Comment to Probate Code section 550 explains: “If the  plaintiff seeks damages in excess of the insurance policy limits, the plaintiff  must file a claim and establish the liability other than under this chapter. .  . .  Subdivision (b) makes clear that  this chapter does not preclude the establishment of liability by another  procedure.”  (Emphasis added.)  Probate  Code section 554 provides:  “(a) Except as provided in subdivision (b), either the  damages sought in an action under this chapter shall be within the limits and  coverage of the insurance, or recovery of damages outside the limits or  coverage of the insurance shall be waived. A judgment in favor of the plaintiff  in the action is enforceable only from the insurance coverage and not against  property in the estate.  “(b) Where the amount of damages sought in the action  exceeds the coverage of the insurance, subdivision (a) does not apply if both  of the following conditions are satisfied:  “(1) The personal representative is joined as a party  to the action.  “(2) The plaintiff files a claim in compliance with  Section 9390.”  (Prob. Code, § 554, emphasis  added.)  Probate  Code section 9390 provides:  “(a) An action to establish the decedent’s liability  for which the decedent was protected by insurance may be commenced or continued  under Section 550, and a judgment in the action may be enforced against the  insurer, without first filing a claim as provided in this part.  “(b) Unless a claim is first made as provided in this  part, an action to establish the decedent’s liability for damages outside the  limits or coverage of the insurance may not be commenced or continued under  Section 550.  “(c) If the insurer seeks reimbursement under the  insurance contract for any liability of the decedent, including, but not  limited to, deductible amounts in the insurance coverage and costs and  attorney’s fees for which the decedent is liable under the contract, an insurer  defending an action under Section 550 shall file a claim as provided in this  part. Failure to file a claim is a waiver of reimbursement under the insurance  contract for any liability of the decedent.”  (Prob. Code, § 9390, emphasis  added.)  DISCUSSION   A.   The complaint  William  Jordison leased a residential property in Arcadia from the Lam Defendants.  On or about January 15, 2020, Plaintiff was  at the property to help William Jordison prepare to move out of the property.  The  rear area of the property, including the back patio and driveway, contained  trip hazards due to negligent construction, repair, inspection, and  maintenance.  As a result of the  dangerous condition, Plaintiff fell and struck her head, breaking her neck and  suffering permanent brain damage.  B.  The motion for good faith settlement determination and opposition  1.    Plaintiff’s total recovery and settlor’s proportionate  liability  The Estate  contends that its agreement to pay Plaintiff $100,000.00 to settle Plaintiff’s  claims against the Estate is in good faith because $100,000.00 is the most that  Plaintiff could recover against the Estate.   The amount represents the policy limits of William Jordison’s renter’s  insurance policy with Interinsurance Exchange of the Automobile Club (“Insurer”).  The Estate’s  counsel, who is also the Insurer’s staff counsel, has submitted a declaration  stating that the renter’s policy, with limits of $100,000.00, is the only asset  available to the Estate in this matter.   (Further Declaration of Philip A. Kraft ¶ 5.)  Plaintiff’s counsel has also submitted a  declaration stating that, based on his investigation, he believes that the  renter’s policy is the only asset available to compensate Plaintiff for her  injuries.  (Declaration of John K.  Ciccarelli ¶ 11.)  Plaintiff therefore “will not bring any further action  against the Estate of William Jordison pursuant to California Probate Code §  9390, Part 4 of the Probate Code, or any other potentially available statutory  provision.” (Declaration of John K.  Ciccarelli ¶ 12.)  Michael  Jordison, William Jordison’s son and heir, has submitted a declaration stating  that his father had a pension, a small annuity, and a car.  The pension terminated on his father’s  death.  The annuity became the property  of William Jordison’s wife (Michael Jordison’s step-mother), who used it to pay  for her residence at a skilled nursing facility.  When William Jordison’s wife died in March  2022, “very little” of the annuity remained.   Michael Jordison and his sisters divided the remaining proceeds of the  annuity and the proceeds from the sale of the car.  Michael Jordison has spent the “small amount  of money” he received and he believes his sisters did as well.  (Declaration of Michael Jordison ¶¶ 2-8.)  The Estate  contends that William Jordison’s proportionate liability is irrelevant because,  under the Probate Code, the Estate is effectively insolvent with respect to  damages beyond the $100,000.00 policy limit.   (See Further Declaration of Philip A. Kraft ¶ 9.)  Similarly, the Estate does not address the  amount of damages that Plaintiff might recover if the case goes to trial.  The  Lam Defendants argue that Probate Code section 554, subdivision (a), does not  cap the Estate’s liability at the $100,000.00 policy limits because Plaintiff is  not prosecuting the complaint under the provisions of Probate Code sections 550  et. seq.  (Opposition p. 3.)  The Lam Defendants also assert that  Plaintiff’s injuries are very serious and her damages will necessarily far  exceed $100,000.00.  In an interrogatory  response, Plaintiff stated:  “ . . . I suffered a C7 pedicle fracture to my neck. I  underwent extensive neurosurgery consisting of, among other things, a C6-C7  anterior cervical discectomy and fusion and additional stabilization in an  effort to prevent further damage to my spinal cord. I suffered a severe  traumatic brain injury. Someone told me I may have suffered a stroke but I  don't know if this was confused with my brain injury. The traumatic brain  injury has severely limited my ability to get around, care for myself, engage  in activities of daily living, has reduced my cognitive abilities, and has  impacted every aspect of my life. I have difficulty in walking, decreased  functional activity, balance deficits, mobility deficits, endurance deficits,  pain limiting functions, range of motion deficits, strength deficits, and  transfer deficits. I continue to have mental deficits in executive function and  processing speed, limited speech intelligibility, limited cognition, memory and  comprehension, unstable gait, inability to engage in ADLs, and bowel and  bladder incontinence.”  According  to the Lam Defendants, William Jordison was responsible for the allegedly  dangerous condition on the property he rented.   The Lam Defendants contend that they had no notice of the allegedly  dangerous condition.   2.   Allocation of settlement   Plaintiff  will receive the entire settlement.   3.   Financial considerations    See  Section B.1, above.   4.   Collusion or fraud   The  Court has seen no evidence of fraud or collusion.   5.    Weighing the Tech-Bilt factors The  Court has weighed the Tech-Bilt factors and concludes that, because the  Estate has proffered the policy limits of its only available insurance and has  no other assets, the Lam Defendants have failed to carry their burden of  showing a lack of good faith.  (See L.  Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial  (Rutter 2023) ¶ 12:771, p. 12(ll)-76 [“even a settlement that seems disproportionately  low may be justified by showing . . . that the settling defendant . . . was  underinsured or insolvent”]; id., ¶ 12:797, p. 12(ll)-89 [“Whatever  amounts are paid on behalf of an insolvent defendant are likely a ‘good faith’  settlement, regardless of that defendant’s share of fault”].) The  Court grants the motion.  CONCLUSION   The  Court GRANTS Estate of William Jordison, Deceased’s motion for a determination  that its settlement with Plaintiff Marguerita Ludwig is in good faith. The
Court dismisses all pending and future claims against Defendant Estate of William Jordison, Deceased, by the parties served
with this motion (to the extent those claims arise from the facts giving rise
to this case), including cross-complaints for equitable indemnity. Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.