 Case Number:  23STCV09781    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  29 Rios v. Webster
23STCV09781
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Set Aside Dismissal 
 
Tentative
 
The motion is granted.
 
Background
On May 2, 2023, Norberto Rios and Jorge Barraza (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Linda Webster and Does 1 through 50 for
motor vehicle negligence and general negligence arising out of an alleged accident
on October 12, 2022.
 
There was no appearance at the Final Status Conference on
October 15, 2024.  When there was again
no appearance at trial on October 29, 2024, the Court dismissed this matter.


On November 12,
2024, Plaintiffs filed this motion to set aside the dismissal. No defendant has
appeared, and no opposition was filed. 
Legal Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section
473, subdivision (b) provides for both discretionary and mandatory relief from
dismissal. 
As to discretionary
relief, the statute states: “The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.”  (Code of Civil Procedure § 473, subd. (b).)
Where such an application for discretionary relief is made, the motion must be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or pleading proposed to be filed;
“otherwise the application shall not be granted.”  (Ibid.)  The application for relief must be made within
a reasonable time, and in no case exceeding six months after the judgment. (Ibid.)
The statute also provides
for mandatory relief from dismissal, default, or default judgment:
“whenever an application
for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in
proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to
his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or 22STCneglect … unless the court
finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” 

(Ibid.)
A request for
discretionary relief under section 473, subdivision (b), must be made (subject
to certain exceptions) “within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six
months.”  (Ibid.)  A request for mandatory relief must be made
within six months.  (Ibid.) 
Section 473, subdivision (c),
provides as follows:
“(1) Whenever the
court grants relief from a default, default judgment, or dismissal based on any
of the provisions of this section, the court may do any of the following:
(A) Impose a penalty
of no greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000) upon an offending attorney or
party.
(B) Direct that an
offending attorney pay an amount no greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000)
to the State Bar Client Security Fund.
(C) Grant other
relief as is appropriate.
(2) However, where the court grants relief from a default
or default judgment pursuant to this section based upon the affidavit of the
defaulting party’s attorney attesting to the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, the relief shall not be made conditional upon the
attorney’s payment of compensatory legal fees or costs or monetary penalties
imposed by the court or upon compliance with other sanctions ordered by the
court.”
Discussion
Plaintiffs move to set aside the dismissal of their
complaint.  Plaintiffs’ counsel has
presented a declaration stating, under oath, that the failure to appear at trial
was the result of a calendaring error.  (Green
Decl., ¶ 10.)
 
The motion is granted. 
Plaintiffs have shown that the dismissal was the result of the mistake
and inadvertence of their counsel.
 
Accordingly, the motion to set aside is GRANTED.
 
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (c)(1)(B), the Court orders
counsel Carla Green, Esq., to pay $250 to the State Bar Client Security Fund.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to set aside the
dismissal of this action.
The
Court SETS ASIDE the order filed October 29, 2024, dismissing this action.
The
Court SETS an Order to Show Cause regarding Why Monetary Sanctions in the
Amount of up to $500 Should Not be Imposed on Plaintiff and/or Counsel of
Record, Michael R. Parker,  Esq., for
Failure to Serve Defendant Within the Time Period Set Forth in California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.110(b), or, alternatively, a Trial Setting Conference in
approximately 60 days.  Any response to the OSC must be in writing
and must be filed at least five court days prior to the OSC hearing.
The
Court ORDERS Counsel Carla Green, Esq. to pay $250 to the State Bar Client
Security Fund by January 17, 2025.
The
Court ORDERS Counsel Carla Green, Esq., to file, by January 31, 2025, notice of
the proof of the payment to the State Bar Client Security Fund. 
Moving
Party is to give notice.