 Case Number:  22STCV25230    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  29 Bustamante v. 237 Windward LLC
22STCV25230
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Deposition of Nonparty Witness
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On August 5, 2022, Plaintiff Oscar Dorantes
Bustamante (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants 237 Windward,
LLC, Skylight Residential Inc., Solari, and Does 1 to 100. The complaint
alleges the cause of action for Negligence.  The complaint arises
from an incident where Plaintiff fell through the floor and sustained injuries.
This case has a complicated procedural
history, which the Court will not recount here.  (See Minute Order
dated March 18, 2024.)
As is relevant here, Plaintiff filed a motion
on July 31, 2024, to compel the deposition of nonparty witness Oswaldo
Ocampo.  The motion was denied, without prejudice, on August 29,
2024, as Plaintiff had not filed a proof of personal service on the nonparty
witness.
On September 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a second
motion to compel the deposition of Mr. Ocampo. 
That motion was denied, without prejudice, for untimely service.
On October 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed this
third motion to compel the deposition of Mr. Ocampo.  The motion was personally served on Mr.
Ocampo on November 4, 2024.
No opposition has been filed. 
Legal Standard
“Any party may obtain discovery … by taking
in California the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the
action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)  The process by
which a party may obtain discovery from a person who is not a party to the
action is through a deposition subpoena.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.010, subd. (b).)  Personal service of the deposition subpoena on
the non-party is required.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (b).)
“A deposition subpoena may command any of the
following: (a) Only the attendance and testimony of the deponent …. (b) Only
the production of business records for copying …. (c) The attendance and
the testimony of the deponent, as well as the production of business records,
other documents, electronically stored information, and tangible things.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.)
“If a deponent on whom a deposition subpoena
has been served fails to attend a deposition or refuses to be sworn as a
witness, the court may impose on the deponent the sanctions described in
Section 2020.240 [contempt and an action for civil damages under section
1992].” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.440, subd. (b).)
“If a deponent fails to answer any question
or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice
or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.480, subd. (a).)  “This motion shall be made no later than 60
days after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Id., subd.
(b).)
“If the court determines that the answer or
production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be
given or the production be made on the resumption of the
deposition.  (Id., subd. (i).)
“[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction
under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person,
or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or
production, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”  (Id., subd. (j).)  
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act,
section 2023.010, subdivision (d), defines “[m]isuses of the discovery process”
to include “[f]ailing to respond to or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery.”  Where a party or attorney has engaged in misuse of the
discovery process, the court may impose a monetary sanction in the amount of
“the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct.”  (Id., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
Except as specifically modified by the Civil
Discovery Act, the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure sections 1985 through
1997 apply to deposition subpoenas.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2020.030.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1,
subdivision (a), provides: “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness
or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court, or at
the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court,
upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon
the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be
heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.”
Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2,
subdivision (a), states, in relevant part, that in connection with an order
directing compliance with a subpoena, quashing it, or modifying it, “the court
may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in
making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the
court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial
justification.” 
A motion to compel a nonparty to answer
questions or produce documents “must be personally served on the nonparty
deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by mail or
electronic service.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1346.)
Discussion
Plaintiff seeks to compel the deposition of
nonparty witness Oswaldo Ocampo.
Mr. Ocampo was personally served with a
subpoena requiring him to attend his deposition on April 10,
2024.  (Johnson Decl., ¶¶ 4-5 & Exhs. A-B.)
Although Mr. Ocampo confirmed that he would
attend the deposition, he failed to appear on April 10, 2024.  (Id.,
¶¶ 6-9 & Exhs. C-D.)  Mr. Ocampo did not respond to Plaintiff’s
subsequent attempts to reschedule his deposition.  (Id., ¶ 10.)
Plaintiff filed this motion and served each
party’s counsel.  Mr. Ocampo was personally served.  
All substantive and procedural requirements
are satisfied.  Mr. Ocampo is a witness
who does or may have information relating to the subject matter of the
lawsuit.  He was duly served with a
subpoena and must appear for deposition and testify.
The motion is granted.  
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to
compel the deposition of Oswaldo Ocampo.
The Court ORDERS nonparty Oswaldo Ocampo to
appear, by Zoom, for deposition and answer questions under oath on January __,
2025, at 10:00 am.
Moving party is ordered to provide remote
connection information to Mr. Ocampo and to counsel for all parties who have appeared
in this action at least 48 hours prior to the deposition.
Moving party to give notice.