 Case Number:  22STCV21071    Hearing Date:   December 16, 2024    Dept:  29 Harrison v. City of Los Angeles
22STCV21071
Motion to Withdraw and Amend Admissions
Tentative
The motion is granted
Background
On June 28, 2022, Richard Harrison (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against City of Los Angeles, Los Angeles World Airports (collectively
“Defendants”), and Does 1 through 50, asserting a cause of action for premises
liability arising out of trip and fall occurring on August 13, 2021.
 
On May 1, 2023, Defendants filed an answer.
 
On December 23, 2022, Defendants served Plaintiff with
Requests for Admission (Set One).  (Fantasia
Decl., ¶ 4 & Exh. B.)  Plaintiff
served his responses on February 9, 2023. 
(Id., ¶ 5 & Exh. C.)  In his
responses, Plaintiff admitted, among other things, that Defendants had no
actual or constructive notice of the danger that Plaintiff contends caused his
injuries.  (Id., ¶ 7.)
 
On November 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to
withdraw his admissions. Defendants filed an opposition on December 4, along
with a request for sanctions.  Plaintiff
filed a reply on December 10.
 
Legal
Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2033.300 governs requests to withdraw or amend responses to requests for
admission. Section 2033.300 provides:
“(a) A party may
withdraw or amend an admission made in response to a request for admission only
on leave of court granted after notice to all parties.
(b) The court may permit
withdrawal or amendment of an admission only if it determines that the
admission was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect, and
that the party who obtained the admission will not be substantially prejudiced
in maintaining that party’s action or defense on the merits.
(c) The court may impose
conditions on the granting of the motion that are just, including, but not
limited to, the following:
(1) An order that the
party who obtained the admission be permitted to pursue additional discovery
related to the matter involved in the withdrawn or amended admission.
(2) An order that the
costs of any additional discovery be borne in whole or in part by the party withdrawing
or amending the admission.”
The Court of Appeal discussed
section 2033.300 at length in New Albertsons, Inc. v. Superior Court (2008)
168 Cal.App.4th 1403. The Court of Appeal stated that the statute “eliminates
undeserved windfalls obtain through requests for admission and furthers the
policy favoring the resolution of lawsuits on the merits.” (Id. at p.
1418.)   
Although the court has
discretion in ruling on a motion brought under section 2033.300, that
discretion “is not unlimited” and “must be exercised in
conformity with the spirit of the law and in a manner that serves the interests
of justice.” (Id., at p. 1420.)
“Because the law strongly
favors trial and disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying section
2033.300 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief. Accordingly,
the court’s discretion to deny a motion under the statute is limited to circumstances
where it is clear that the mistake, inadvertence, or neglect was inexcusable,
or where it is clear that the withdrawal or amendment would substantially
prejudice the party who obtained the admission in maintaining that party's
action or defense on the merits.” 
(Id. at pp. 1420-1421.)  
Discussion
 
Plaintiff served responses to Defendants’ Requests for
Admission on February 9, 2023.  In
responses to Requests Nos. 8 through 13, Plaintiff essentially admitted that
Defendants had actual or constructive notice of the allegedly dangerous
condition that (Plaintiff contends) caused the accident.  (Fantasia Decl., Exh. C, at pp. 5-6.) 
 
Plaintiff’s counsel states that John Rofael, who was
handling the case for Plaintiff at the time of the responses, contends that the
previous handling attorney, John Rofael, left the law firm after experiencing “significant
personal issues which caused him to mismanage many of the cases that were
assigned to him.”  (Fantasia Decl., ¶
6.)  Counsel further states:
 
“Certainly, no reasonable or
right-minded attorney … would have made such admissions in a case where the
cause of action pled against Defendant requires actual or constructive notice
as an element of the claim.  These
admissions were made due to mistake, inadvertence and excusable neglect of
Plaintiff’s prior handling attorney because of the personal issues that he was
dealing with at the time.”
 
(Id., ¶ 8.)  
 
Plaintiff also attaches amended responses
to the Requests for Admission.  (Id.,
Exh. D.)  In the amended responses, which
are verified, Plaintiff denies Requests Nos. 8 through 13.
 
The Court has reviewed the arguments
and evidence from both sides and finds that Plaintiff has made a sufficient
showing of that the initial responses were the result of a mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.  In
addition, Defendants will not be substantially prejudiced by having to defend
the action on the merits; Defendants, to be sure, would have a stronger defense
if Plaintiff were bound by the initial responses, but Defendants are not
substantially prejudiced by the loss of what is essentially, on this record, a
windfall resulting from mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
 
Accordingly, the motion is granted.
 
The Court has the power to grant the
motion with conditions.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.300, subd. (c).) 
Here, however, Defendants do not seek any such conditions, at least at
this time.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff Richard Harrison’s
motion to withdraw the responses to Requests for Admission (Set One) Nos. 8 through
12, served on February 9, 2023. 
Plaintiff is granted leave to amend the responses (see Exhibit D
attached to the motion).
 
Moving party is
ORDERED to give notice.