 Case Number:  24PSCV00015    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  K Plaintiff Rueben
Olague’s unopposed Motion to Compel San Antonio Regional Hospital’s
Compliance with Deposition Subpoena is GRANTED. The court directs the Custodian
of Records for SARC to appear and to produce all records as specified in the
deposition subpoena within 20 days from the date of service of the notice of
ruling. Sanctions are awarded in the reduced amount of $585.00 and are payable within 20 days from the date of service of the
notice of ruling. Contempt sanctions are declined.
Background   
Plaintiff Ruben Olague (“Plaintiff”)
alleges as follows:
Plaintiff is a
dependent adult. Plaintiff was a resident at Inland Valley Care and
Rehabilitation Center in Pomona, from in or about May 2023 through July 2023.
Plaintiff developed severe pressure sores as a result of deficiencies in care.
On April 24, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a First Amended Complaint, asserting causes of action against Inland
Valley Partners, LLC, Renew Health Consulting Services, LLC and Does 1-250 for:
1.                 
Dependent Adult Abuse (Pursuant to the Elder Abuse and
Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act—Welfare and Institutions Code §§ 15600, et
seq.
2.                 
Negligence
A Case Management Conference is
set for July 18, 2024.
Legal Standard
A motion to compel compliance with a deposition subpoena may
be sought under either Code of Civil Procedure §§ 1987.1 or 2025.480. “If a
subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity
to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1(a).) “The following persons may make
a motion pursuant to subdivision (a): (1) A party. . . ” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (b).)
Additionally, “if a deponent fails to answer any question or
to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subd. (a).)
“If a deponent on whom a deposition subpoena has been served
fails to attend a deposition or refuses to be sworn as a witness, the court may
impose on the deponent the sanctions described in Section 2020.240.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.440, subd. (b).)
“A deponent who disobeys a deposition subpoena in any manner
described in subdivision (c) of Section 2020.220[1] may be
punished for contempt. . . without the necessity of a prior order of court
directing compliance by the witness. . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.240.)
“To the extent authorized by the chapter governing any
particular discovery method or any other provision of this title, the court,
after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity
for hearing, may impose the following sanctions against anyone engaging in
conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process: . . . (e) The court may
impose a contempt sanction by an order treating the misuse of the discovery
process as a contempt of court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (e).)
“A written notice and all moving papers supporting a motion
to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel production of a
document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be personally served
on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service
by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic service address
specified on the deposition record.” (California Rules of Court [“CRC”] Rule
3.1346.)
Discussion
Plaintiff moves the court for an order compelling nonparty
San Antonio Regional Hospital (“SARC”) to answer questions and produce records
relating to Plaintiff pursuant to a deposition subpoena served on February 7,
2024. Plaintiff also seeks monetary and contempt sanctions against SARC in the
amount of $1,560.00.
Plaintiff’s counsel Cara M. Crownover (“Crownover”) and
legal assistant Tonya Picken (“Picken”) represent as follows:
On February 7, 2024, a “Notice of Taking Deposition of
Custodian of Records at San Antonio Regional Hospital and Request for
Production of Documents” was served, wherein the deposition of SARC’s Custodian
of Records was set for March 1, 2024. (Crownover Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. 1.) Picken
made several calls to SARC attempting to obtain the requested records prior to
the date of deposition. (Picken Decl., ¶ 2). On February 14, 2024, Picken was
advised that she needed to call (909) 579-6976 in order to follow up with the
deposition subpoena. (Id.) On February 23, 2024 and February 28, 2024,
Picken called the above number but was unable to reach a person to speak with.
(Id.) Picken left voicemails requesting a return call, but never
received one. (Id.) On March 1, 2024, SARC’s Custodian of Records failed
to attend and produce the records requested in the subpoena despite not
providing any objection after service of the subpoena. (Crownover Decl., ¶ 4).
SARC has failed to produce the requested records and has refused to appear for
deposition, to date. (Id.)
The unopposed motion is granted. The court directs the
Custodian of Records for SARC to appear and to produce all records as specified
in the deposition subpoena within 20 days from the date of service of the
notice of ruling.
Sanctions
Plaintiff seeks sanctions against SARC
in the amount of $1,560.00 [calculated as follows: 1 hour preparing motion,
plus 2 hours reviewing opposition, drafting reply and attending hearing at $500.00
/hour, plus $60.00 filing fee].
Utilizing a Lodestar approach, and in view of the totality
of the circumstances, the court finds that the total and reasonable amount of
attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with
the pending motion is $585.00 (i.e., 1.5 hours at $350.00/hour, plus $60.00 filing
fee). Sanctions are payable within 20 days from the date of service of the
notice of ruling.
Plaintiff also seeks contempt sanctions. The court believes
that the imposition of monetary sanctions is sufficient at this juncture and
declines contempt sanctions at this time.


