  Case Number:  23PSCV02093    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants HLP ED
Foundation, SVG Training Foundation, Inc., and San Gabriel Career Foundation,
Inc.’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint
Respondent: Plaintiffs
Anthony Duarte and Hacienda La Puente Unified School District
Defendants HLP ED
Foundation, SVG Training Foundation, Inc., and San Gabriel Career Foundation,
Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of the First
Amended Complaint
Respondent:
Plaintiffs Anthony Duarte and
Hacienda La Puente Unified School District
Defendant Cynthia
Parulan-Colfer’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint
Respondent: Plaintiffs
Anthony Duarte and Hacienda La Puente Unified School District
Defendant Cynthia
Parulan-Colfer’s Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended Complaint
Respondent:
Plaintiffs Anthony Duarte and Hacienda
La Puente Unified School District
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants HLP ED
Foundation, SVG Training Foundation, Inc., and San Gabriel Career Foundation,
Inc.’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED IN PART with twenty (20) days leave to amend as to the first,
second, third, fifth, sixth, and eleventh causes of action and OVERRULED IN
PART as to the fourth, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, and twelfth causes of
action.
Defendants HLP ED
Foundation, SVG Training Foundation, Inc., and San Gabriel Career Foundation,
Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of the First
Amended Complaint
is deemed MOOT.
Defendant Cynthia
Parulan-Colfer’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED IN PART with twenty (20) days
leave to amend as to the fifth, sixth, and eleventh causes of action, as well
as Plaintiff Anthony Duarte’s first cause of action. Furthermore, the Demurrer
is OVERRULED IN PART as to the first, fourth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth
causes of action.
Defendant Cynthia
Parulan-Colfer’s Motion to Strike Portions of the First Amended Complaint is deemed MOOT.
BACKGROUND
This
is an action arising from alleged misappropriation of non-profit funds.
Defendant HLP ED Foundation (HLP ED) was a non-profit public benefit
corporation initially founded in August 2008. Its alleged purpose was to provide
scholarships for the students of Hacienda La Puente Unified School District
(HLPUSD) and fund special projects that enhanced students’ academic and
co-curricular activities. Since HLP ED’s founding, Defendant Cynthia
Parulan-Colfer served as a director. In 2016 and 2018, Parulan-Colfer and another
HLP ED board member allegedly used HLP ED’s funds to provide scholarships for
Parulan-Colfer’s children outside the normal scholarship review process. In 2019,
HLP ED’s funds were allegedly used for Parulan-Colfer’s retirement party. And
in July 2020, HLP ED’s funds were allegedly used to pay Parulan-Colfer’s
husband’s law firm for legal services.
In
September 2020, HLP ED was dissolved and Parulan-Colfer allegedly transferred its
remaining funds to other non-profits founded by Parulan-Colfer including
Defendants SVG Training Foundation, Inc. (SVG Training Foundation) and San
Gabriel Career Foundation, Inc. (San Gabriel Career Foundation). As a result,
at least one of HLP ED’s scholarship recipients was unable to cash a
scholarship check.
On
July 12, 2023, Anthony Duarte and HLPUSD filed a complaint against
Parulan-Colfer, HLP ED, SVG Training Foundation, San Gabriel Career Foundation,
and Does 1-50, alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of fiduciary
obligations and duties, (2) breach of contract, (3) breach of the covenant of
good faith and fair dealing, (4) fraud, (5) conversion, (6) breach of
charitable trust, (7) money had and received, (8) unfair business practices,
(9) intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, (10)
declaratory relief, and (11) accounting.
On
October 3, 2023, Duarte and HLPUSD filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC)
against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action with an
additional twelfth cause of action for aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary
duties.
On November
6, 2023, HLP ED, SVG Training Foundation, and San Gabriel Career Foundation
(collectively, Entity Defendants) filed one of the two present demurrers and
motions to strike. On the same day, Parulan-Colfer filed the other demurrer and
motion to strike. Prior to filing on October 9, counsel for Parulan-Colfer and
the Entity Defendants telephonically met and conferred with counsel for Duarte
and HLPUSD and were unable to reach a resolution. (Watts Decl., ¶ 4; Brethen
Decl., ¶ 2.) On November 14, the Entity Defendants filed a notice of joinder to
Parulan-Colfer’s demurrer and motion to strike.
A
hearing on the present motions is set for January 24, 2024, with a case
management conference.
ANALYSIS
Parulan-Colfer
demurs to Duarte and HLPUSD’s first cause of action (breach of fiduciary
obligations and duties), fourth cause of action (fraud), fifth cause of action
(conversion), sixth cause of action (breach of charitable trust), seventh cause
of action (money had and received), eighth cause of action (unfair business
practices), ninth cause of action (intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage), tenth cause of action (declaratory relief), and eleventh
cause of action (accounting). In addition to the causes of action demurred to
by Parulan-Colfer, the Entity Defendants also demur to Duarte and HLPUSD’s
second cause of action (breach of contract), third cause of action (breach of
the covenant of good faith and fair dealing), and twelfth cause of action (aiding
and abetting breach of fiduciary duties).
For
the following reasons, the demurrers are SUSTAINED IN PART, OVERRULED IN PART as follows:
Legal Standard
A
party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering
demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT
Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)
Breach of Fiduciary Obligations and Duties (First
Cause of Action)
Parulan-Colfer
and the Entity Defendants argue Duarte and HLPUSD’s first cause of action for breach
of fiduciary obligations and duties fails as a matter of law because HLP ED and
Parulan-Colfer did not owe any fiduciary duty to Duarte and HLPUSD. As to the
Entity Defendants, the court agrees. As to Parulan-Colfer, the court agrees
with regards to Duarte’s cause of action but disagrees with regards to HLPUSD’s
cause of action.
Legal Standard
The
elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty are the existence of
a fiduciary relationship, breach of fiduciary duty, and damages.” (Oasis
West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 820.)
Parulan-Colfer’s Relationship with HLPUSD
The
FAC alleges Parulan-Colfer owed HLPUSD fiduciary duties as HLPUSD’s employee. (FAC,
¶ 55.) Parulan-Colfer argues the law is contrary to this assertion, citing O’Byrne
v. Santa Monica-UCLA Medical Center (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 797 (O’Byrne),
and Amid v. Hawthorne Community Medical Group, Inc. (1989) 212
Cal.App.3d 1383 (Amid). Both cases recognize that employer-employee
relationships are generally not fiduciary ones. (O’Byrne, supra, 94
Cal.App.4th at p. 811; Amid, supra, 212 Cal.App.3d at p. 1391.)
But notwithstanding this general rule, “officers of corporations who
participate in the management of the corporation are considered fiduciaries as
a matter of law.” (Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum Com. v. Insomniac, Inc. (2015)
233 Cal.App.4th 803, 834 (LAMCC); see also Angelica Textile Services,
Inc. v. Park (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 495, 509.) Furthermore, an employee may
have a fiduciary relationship with an employer if the employee is acting as the
employer’s authorized agent. (LAMCC, supra, 233 Cal.App.4th at p.
833.) In LAMCC, the court held an event coordinator for the Los Angeles
Memorial Coliseum Commission had a fiduciary relationship with the commission
because the event coordinator “had voluntarily undertaken to act on their
behalf and for their benefit in negotiating the rental agreements with defendants.”
(Id., at p. 834.)
Here,
the FAC does not merely allege Parulan-Colfer was HLPUSD’s employee. It
specifically alleges Parulan-Colfer became HLPUSD’s superintendent in 2013 and
left their employ in 2020. (FAC, ¶ 12, 18.) Pursuant to Education Code section 35035,
subdivision (a), the superintendent of a school district serves as “the chief
executive officer of the governing board of the school district.” Thus, by
alleging Parulan-Colfer was an executive officer for HLPUSD, the FAC has
adequately alleged the existence of a fiduciary relationship.
Accordingly,
Parulan-Colfer’s demurrer to HLPUSD’s cause of action on this ground is OVERRULED.
HLP ED’s Relationship with HLPUSD and Duarte
The
FAC alleges HLP ED owed fiduciary duties to HLPUSD, Duarte, and student
beneficiaries as a result of soliciting and accepting charitable contributions.
(FAC, ¶ 55.) The FAC also alleges Parulan-Colfer owed similar fiduciary duties
by acting as HLP ED’s agent. (FAC, ¶ 55.) HLP ED argues there is no authority
establishing HLP ED owed fiduciary duties to third parties.
In
opposition, HLPUSD and Duarte argue HLP ED’s fiduciary duties arose from the
creation of a charitable trust pursuant to Business and Professions Code
section 17510.8. This provision recognizes the existence of “a fiduciary
relationship between a charity or any person soliciting on behalf of a charity,
and the person from whom a charitable contribution is being solicited.” (Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 17510.8.) It also recognizes that “[t]he acceptance of
charitable contributions by a charity or any person soliciting on behalf of a
charity establishes a charitable trust and a duty on the part of the charity
and the person soliciting on behalf of the charity to use those charitable
contributions for the declared charitable purposes for which they are sought.”
(Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17510.8.)
Here,
the FAC alleges HLP ED was organized as a non-profit public benefit corporation
and acted as a charitable trust. (FAC, ¶ 77.) But as noted below with regards
to the sixth cause of action, the FAC failed to establish Duarte or HLPUSD have
standing to sue for breach of charitable trust. Accordingly, Parulan-Colfer’s
demurrer to Duarte’s cause of action on this ground and the Entity Defendants’
demurrer to this cause of action are SUSTAINED with leave to amend for the
same reasons.
Breach of Contract (Second Cause of Action)
The
Entity Defendants contend HLPUSD’s second cause of action for breach of
contract fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim. The court agrees.
Legal Standard
To
state a cause of action for breach of contract, a plaintiff must be able to
establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting
damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51
Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of
a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the
complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated
by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74
Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead the
legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.” (Construction
Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189,
198-199.) “[T]he vital elements of a
cause of action based on contract are mutual assent (usually accomplished
through the medium of an offer and acceptance) and consideration.” (Division
of Labor Law Enforcement v. Transpacific Transportation Co. (1977) 69
Cal.App.3d 268, 275.)
Discussion
In this case,
the Entity Defendants contend the FAC fails to allege the existence of a
contract. The FAC alleges the articles of incorporation for HLP ED formed a
contract between HLP ED and HLPUSD. (FAC, ¶ 60.) In support of this allegation,
HLPUSD cites Bushansky v. Soon-Shiong (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 1000, for
the premise that articles or certificates of incorporation are “a contractual
agreement between the corporation and its shareholders.” (Id., at p.
1005.) But “unlike for-profit corporations, charitable organizations do not
have shareholders with ownership interests in the charity.” (Turner v.
Victoria (2023) 15 Cal.5th 99, 126.) Here, the articles of incorporation
state HLP ED has no members and the FAC fails to allege otherwise. (FAC, Ex.
A.) Thus, it is unclear who the articles of incorporation formed a contract
with.
HLPUSD contends
this case is comparable to Stocco v. Gemological Institute of America, Inc. (S.D.
Cal. 2013) 975 F.Supp.2d 1170, 1180 (Stocco), where the court found
plaintiffs had adequately alleged a cause of action for breach of contract. In
that case, a gemological institute and chamber of commerce signed articles of
incorporation that formed a science foundation. (Id., at p. 1177.) In forming
the foundation, the chamber of commerce agreed to provide economic and
financial support to third-party plaintiffs through the foundation in exchange
for plaintiffs’ construction of a gem grading lab or gem drop-off location. (Id.,
at p. 1180.) As part of the agreement, plaintiffs would also be allowed to
issue gem grading certificates authorized by the gemological institute. (Ibid.)
And at the time the foundation was formed, the third-party plaintiffs were operating
as an entity wholly owned by the gemological institute. (Ibid.) But
while Stocco involved a clear agreement between the gemological
institute and chamber of commerce to form a foundation, such an agreement is
lacking here. In fact, the FAC does not even allege who was responsible for
forming HLP ED initially and merely states Parulan-Colfer was the director when
HLP ED was founded. (FAC, ¶ 11.)
HLPUSD also
contends the articles of incorporation formed a contract between HLP ED and the
state but fails to provide any legal authority to support this assertion. Because
the FAC fails to establish that HLP ED’s articles of incorporation constitute a
binding contract, the FAC cannot rely on them to claim to HLPUSD is a
third-party beneficiary.
Accordingly, the
Entity Defendants’ demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED with
leave to amend.
Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
(Third Cause of Action)
The
Entity Defendants maintain HLPUSD’s third cause of action for breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing fails to plead sufficient facts to
state a claim. Because this cause of action requires the existence of a
contract, it fails for the same reasons noted above with regard to the second
cause of action. (See Racine & Laramie, Ltd. v. Department of Parks
& Recreation (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1026, 1032 [“There is no obligation
to deal fairly or in good faith absent an existing contract.”].)
Accordingly,
the Entity Defendants’ demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED with
leave to amend.
Fraud (Fourth Cause of Action)
Parulan-Colfer
and the Entity Defendants argue Duarte and HLPUSD’s fourth cause of action for fraud
fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim. The court disagrees.
Legal Standard
“The
elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638, quoting 5 Witkin, Summary of
Cal. Law (9th ed. 1988) Torts, § 676, p. 778.) The facts constituting the
alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of
fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not
ordinarily be invoked. (Id., at p. 645.)
Discussion
In
this case, Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants both argue the FAC fails to
allege they made misrepresentations with the required specificity. In alleging
a cause of action for fraud, “[t]he specificity requirement means a plaintiff
must allege facts showing how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the
representations were made, and, in the case of a corporate defendant, the
plaintiff must allege the names of the persons who made the representations,
their authority to speak on behalf of the corporation, to whom they spoke, what
they said or wrote, and when the representation was made.” (West v. JPMorgan
Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 780, 793.)
Here,
the FAC alleges that in February 2019, Parulan-Colfer and Dr. Gary Matsumoto, a
HLP ED board member, sent a letter to supporters stating that supporters could
participate in raising funds for student scholarships and school programs by
participating in the upcoming annual fundraising event. (FAC, ¶ 19.) The FAC
alleges these representations or promises were false as Parulan-Colfer and HLP
ED did not intend to use the donations as promised. (FAC, ¶ 70.) In response,
Parulan-Colfer argues that the FAC fails to identify who these supporters are. But
the FAC makes clear that Duarte and HLPUSD were recipients of these
representations as they allegedly relied on them to their detriment. For
example, the FAC alleges Duarte made a donation at the annual fundraising event
in reliance on the February 2019 letter. (FAC, ¶ 24.) The FAC also alleges that
both Duarte and HLPUSD relied on these representations in engaging in
fundraising efforts for HLP ED and donating money to HLP ED. (FAC, ¶ 71.)
Parulan-Colfer
also argues that the FAC seeks to hold Parulan-Colfer personally liable for the
alleged misrepresentations of Dr. Matsumoto. But this argument misconstrues the
FAC as the February 2019 letter was issued by both Dr. Matsumoto and
Parulan-Colfer. (FAC, ¶ 19.)
Accordingly,
the court finds the arguments by Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants’ are
unpersuasive as to this cause of action, and hereby OVERRULE the demurrers on this
ground.
Conversion (Fifth Cause of Action)
Parulan-Colfer
and the Entity Defendants contend Duarte and HLPUSD’s fifth cause of action for
conversion fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim. The court agrees.
Legal Standard
“Conversion
is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of another. The elements
of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff's ownership or right to possession
of the property; (2) the defendant's conversion by a wrongful act or
disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.” (Burlesci v. Petersen (1998)
68 Cal.App.4th 1062, 1066.) “Conversion is an intentional tort.” (Multani v.
Knight (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 837, 853.) “Because the act [of conversion]
must be knowingly done, ‘neither negligence, active or passive, nor a breach of
contract, even though it result in injury to, or loss of, specific property,
constitutes a conversion.’” (Taylor v. Forte Hotels International (1991)
235 Cal.App.3d 1119, 1124.)
“[C]ases
recognizing claims for the conversion of money ‘typically involve those who
have misappropriated, commingled, or misapplied specific funds held for the
benefit of others.’” (Voris v. Lampert (2019) 7 Cal.5th 1141, 1152,
quoting PCO, Inc. v. Christensen, Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil &
Shapiro, LLP (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 384, 396.)
Discussion
In
this case, Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants contend the FAC fails to
allege ownership or right of possession with regards to HLP ED’s funds. While
the FAC alleges Duarte and HLPUSD possessed ownership interests in funds that
were transferred to HLP ED, this conclusory allegation is insufficient to
establish how Duarte and HLPUSD had an ownership interest in these funds. (FAC,
¶ 74-75.)
In
opposition, Duarte contends Duarte possesses an actionable interest in sums
donated to HLP ED pursuant to L.B. Research & Education Foundation v.
UCLA Foundation (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 171 (UCLA Foundation). There,
the court found plaintiff had made a conditional gift. (Id., at p. 178,
180.) Here however, the FAC failed to allege any facts that establish how
Duarte placed conditions on the donation given to HLP ED. Thus, the court finds
that UCLA Foundation is inapplicable.
HLPUSD
contends it has a sufficient interest in monies donated to HLP ED pursuant to San
Diego ect. Boy Scounts of America v. City of Escondido (1971) 14 Cal.App.3d
189. In that case, the court held that the representative of a charitable
trust’s beneficiaries could bring an action to enforce the trust. (Id.,
at p. 196.) But the court did not hold that the beneficiaries had ownership
interests in the charitable trust and could bring a separate action for conversion.
Accordingly,
because Duarte and HLPUSD have failed to adequately allege how they have an
ownership interest in HLP ED’s funds, Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants’
demurrers to this cause of action are SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
Breach of Charitable Trust (Sixth Cause of Action)
Parulan-Colfer
and the Entity Defendants maintain Duarte and HLPUSD’s sixth cause of action
for breach of charitable trust fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim
because Duarte and HLPUSD lack standing to sue for breach of charitable trust.
The court agrees.
Legal Standard
Pursuant
to Corporations Code section 5142, subdivision (a), an action for breach of charitable
trust may be brought by “(1) [t]he corporation, or a member in the name of the
corporation pursuant to Section 5710[,] (2) [a]n officer of the corporation[,] (3)
[a] director of the corporation[,] (4) [a] person with a reversionary,
contractual, or property interest in the assets subject to such charitable
trust,” or the attorney general.”
Discussion
Here,
because HLPUSD and Duarte do not allege they were members, officers, or
directors of HLP ED, they must establish they have a reversionary, contractual,
or property interest in HLP ED’s funds. The FAC alleges HLPUSD possesses a
contractual interest in HLP ED’s funds “by virtue of the provisions in the
Articles of Incorporation of the Foundation.” (FAC, ¶ 78.) But as noted above
with regard to the second cause of action, the FAC has failed to adequately establish
that these articles constituted a valid contract. Thus, the FAC fails to
establish HLPUSD possess a contractual interest in HLP ED’s funds.
As
to Duarte, the FAC alleges Duarte possess a “reversionary, contractual, or
property interest, by virtual of his status as a donor of funds.” (FAC, ¶ 78.)
But the FAC fails to expand on these generic and conclusory allegations by
alleging how Duarte’s donation entitled Duarte to a reversionary, contractual,
or property interest in HLP ED’s funds.
Accordingly,
because Duarte and HLPUSD fail to allege sufficient facts to establish that
they have standing to sue for breach of charitable trust, Parulan-Colfer and
the Entity Defendants’ demurrers to this cause of action are SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
Common Counts (Seventh Cause of Action)
Parulan-Colfer
and the Entity Defendants argue Duarte and HLPUSD’s seventh cause of action for
common counts fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim. The court disagrees.
Legal Standard
“A
cause of action is stated for money had and received if the defendant is
indebted to the plaintiff in a certain sum ‘for money had and received by the
defendant for the use of the plaintiff.’” (Schultz v. Harney (1994) 27
Cal.App.4th 1611, 1623, quoting Pike v. Zadig (1915) 171 Cal. 273,
257-276.)
Discussion
In
this case, Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants argue the FAC fails to establish
that they were indebted to Duarte and HLPUSD. But this argument ignores the
fact that a “[a] common count may be used to recover money obtained by false
and fraudulent representations.” (Ponti v. Farrell (1961) 194 Cal.App.2d
676, 679.) Because the FAC has adequately alleged Parulan-Colfer and HLP ED
obtained funds or donations from Duarte and HLPUSD through fraud as noted above
with regards to the fourth cause of action, the FAC adequately establishes they
are indebted to Duarte and HLPUSD.
With
regards to the SVG Training Foundation and San Gabriel Career Foundation, the
Entity Defendants argue there is no allegation that any funds at issue were
donated to them. But this argument fails to address the fact that the FAC
alleges they were alter egos of Parulan-Colfer. (FAC, ¶ 45-46.)
Accordingly,
Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants’ demurrers to this cause of action are
OVERRULED.
Unfair Business Practices (Eighth Cause of Action)
Parulan-Colfer
and the Entity Defendants contend Duarte and HLPUSD’s eighth cause of action
for unfair business practices fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim.
The court disagrees.
Legal Standard
To
state a cause of action for unfair business practices, a plaintiff must
establish defendant engaged in “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or
practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising.” (Bus. &
Prof. Code, § 17200.) This section establishes three types of unfair
competition, prohibiting “practices that are either ‘unfair,’ or ‘unlawful,’ or
‘fraudulent.’” (Pastoria v. Nationwide Ins. (2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1490,
1496.) Thus, “An act or practice may be actionable as “unfair” under the unfair
competition law even if it is not ‘unlawful.’” (Chavez v. Whirlpool Corp. (2001)
93 Cal.App.4th 363, 374.) However, despite the broad scope of Business and
Professions Code section 17200, its remedies are limited to equitable relief
and damages are not recoverable. (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003)
29 Cal.4th 1134, 1144.)
Discussion
In
this case, Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants contend the FAC fails to establish
how they engaged in unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business practices. But
because the FAC has adequately alleged Parulan-Colfer and HLP ED obtained funds
or donations from Duarte and HLPUSD through fraud as noted above with regards
to the fourth cause of action, the FAC has adequately alleged a cause of action
for unfair business practices on the basis of fraud.
With
regards to the SVG Training Foundation and San Gabriel Career Foundation, the
Entity Defendants fail to address the fact that the FAC alleges they were alter
egos of Parulan-Colfer. (FAC, ¶ 45-46.)
Accordingly,
Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants’ demurrers to this cause of action are
OVERRULED.
Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage (Ninth Cause of Action)
Parulan-Colfer
and the Entity Defendants maintain HLPUSD’s ninth cause of action for intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage fails to plead sufficient
facts to state a claim. The court disagrees.
Legal Standard
To
state a cause of action for intentional interference with prospective economic
advantage or relations, a plaintiff must establish: “(1) a relationship between
the plaintiff and some third party with the probability of future economic
benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's knowledge of the relationship;
(3) a wrongful act, apart from the interference itself, by the defendant
designed to disrupt the relationship;¿(4) actual disruption of the
relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the
acts of the defendant.”¿ (Salma v. Capon (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1275,
1290, quoting Arluk Medical Center Industrial Group, Inc. v. Dobler (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 1324, 1340-1341.)
In
addition to establishing the defendant interfered with a plaintiff’s
prospective economic advantage, plaintiff must establish that defendant’s
conduct “was wrongful by some legal measure other than the fact of interference
itself.” (Della Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (1995) 11
Cal.4th 376, 393.)¿“To establish that the defendant's interfering conduct was¿independently¿wrongful,
the plaintiff must instead prove that the conduct—whether directed at the
plaintiff or someone else—was ‘proscribed by some constitutional, statutory,
regulatory, common law, or other determinable legal standard.’” (Drink Tank
Ventures LLC v. Real Soda in Real Bottles, Ltd. (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 528,
538, quoting Ixchel Pharma, LLC v. Biogen, Inc. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 1130,
1142.)
Discussion
In
this case, Parulan-Colfer maintains the FAC fails to allege how Parulan-Colfer interfered
with the alleged relationship between HLPUSD and HLP ED. But the FAC does so by
alleging Parulan-Colfer mismanaged HLP ED, causing it to lose its tax-exempt
status and become dissolved, and engaged in fraud. (FAC, ¶ 50, 98-99.)
With
regards to the SVG Training Foundation and San Gabriel Career Foundation, the
Entity Defendants argue there is no allegation they interfered with the alleged
relationship between HLPUSD and HLP ED. But this argument fails to address the
fact that the FAC alleges they were alter egos of Parulan-Colfer. (FAC, ¶
45-46.)
Accordingly,
Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants’ demurrers to this cause of action are
OVERRULED.
Declaratory Relief (Tenth Cause of Action)
Parulan-Colfer
and the Entity Defendants argue Duarte and HLPUSD’s tenth cause of action for declaratory
relief fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim. The court disagrees.
Legal Standard
“To
qualify for declaratory relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action
presented two essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief,
and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the
party’s rights or obligations.” (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013)
213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks and brackets omitted.) “The courts do
not issue advisory opinions about the rights and duties of the parties under
particular agreements, if no actual, justiciable controversy has yet
developed.” (Otay Land Co. v. Royal Indemnity Co. (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th
556, 563.)
Discussion
In
this case, Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants argue the FAC fails to
identify a present controversy that would make the issues in dispute the proper
subject for declaratory relief. The court disagrees since the FAC does so by
alleging there is a present dispute over funds donated to or received by Parulan-Colfer
and the Entity Defendants. (FAC, ¶ 100, 102.) While Parulan-Colfer also demurs
to the requested remedy of constructive trust, this cause of action makes
multiple requests for relief and a demurrer may not “lie to a part of a cause
of action.” (Cornejo v. Lightbourne (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 932, 944.)
Accordingly,
Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants’ demurrers to this cause of action are
OVERRULED.
Accounting (Eleventh Cause of Action)
Parulan-Colfer
and the Entity Defendants contend Duarte and HLPUSD’s eleventh cause of action
for accounting fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim. The court
agrees.
Legal Standard
“A
cause of action for an accounting requires a showing that a relationship exists
between the plaintiff and defendant that requires an accounting, and that some balance
is due the plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting.
[Citations.] An action for accounting is not available where the plaintiff
alleges the right to recover a sum certain or a sum that can be made certain by
calculation.” (Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 179.)
Discussion
In
this case, Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants argue the FAC fails to
establish some balance is due to them. With regards to Duarte, the FAC alleges Duarte
was fraudulently induced to donate $2,975 to HLP ED (FAC, ¶ 24, 70-71, 106.)
But because Duarte alleges a sum certain, Duarte cannot allege a cause of
action for accounting. As to HLPUSD, HLPUSD argues it is entitled to sue for an
accounting as a beneficiary of a charitable trust and as a representative of
student beneficiaries. But as noted above, the FAC has failed to allege causes
of action for breach of fiduciary duties, breach of contract, and breach of
charitable trust.
Accordingly,
Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants’ demurrers are SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
Aiding and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary Duties (Twelfth
Cause of Action)
The
Entity Defendants maintain HLPUSD’s twelfth cause of action for aiding and
abetting breach of fiduciary duties fails to plead sufficient facts to state a
claim because Parulan-Colfer did not owe fiduciary duties to HLPUSD. But as
noted above with regards to the first cause of action, the FAC has adequately
alleged Parulan-Colfer owed fiduciary duties to HLPUSD as HLPUSD’s officer.
Accordingly, for the same reasons noted above, the Entity Defendants’ demurrer
to this cause of action is OVERRULED.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the
court rules as follows.
Parulan-Colfer’s demurrer to
the FAC as to Duarte is SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave  to amend as to the first, fifth, sixth, and
eleventh causes of action. Furthermore, demurrer is OVERRULED as to the
fourth, seventh, eighth, and tenth causes of action.
Parulan-Colfer’s demurrer to
the FAC as to HLPUSD is SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days  leave to amend as to the fifth, sixth, and
eleventh causes of action. Furthermore, the demurrer is OVERRULED as to
the first, fourth, seventh, eighth, ninth, and tenth causes of action.
The Entity Defendants’
demurrer to the FAC is SUSTAINED with twenty (20) days leave to amend as
to the first, second, third, fifth, sixth, and eleventh causes of action.
Furthermore, the demurrer is OVERRULED as to the fourth, seventh,
eighth, ninth, tenth, and twelfth causes of action.
Based upon the above analysis, the motions to
strike by Parulan-Colfer and the Entity Defendants’ are DEEMED MOOT.