 Case Number:  23PSCV03541    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Aurora Charter Oak – Los Angeles, LLC’s
Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint
 
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
 
Defendant Aurora Charter Oak – Los Angeles, LLC’s Motion
to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint
 
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant Aurora Charter Oak – Los Angeles, LLC’s
Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint and Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s
Complaint
are CONTINUED to a date to be determined at
the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
Defendant’s counsel is also ordered to meet and confer
with Plaintiff regarding the Demurrer and to file a supplemental declaration
describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court days before the
next scheduled hearing on the Demurrer.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 16, 2023, Plaintiff Roberto Lopez filed a
complaint against Defendant Aurora Charter Oak – Los Angeles, LLC (Aurora),
alleging general negligence, medical negligence, and intentional torts.
 
On December 4, 2023, Aurora filed the present demurrer and
motion to strike. Prior to filing, Aurora’s counsel attempted to meet and
confer by sending a letter to Lopez on November 28. (Charles Decl., ¶ 3.)
 
A hearing on the present demurrer and motion to strike is
set for January 24, 2024, with a case management conference and OSC Re: Failure
to File Proof of Service set for April 15.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Aurora demurs to Lopez’s entire Complaint. For the following reasons, the court finds parties did not
adequately meet and confer.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a), prior to filing a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
This section further provides that “the demurring party shall identify all of
the specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and
identify with legal support the basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)
 
While Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision
(a)(4) makes clear failing to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a demurrer,
courts “are not required to ignore defects in the meet and confer process” and
if the court determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or concludes
further conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it retains
discretion to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with an eye
toward reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a demurrer,
and to continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas v. Los
Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355 & fn.
3.)
 
Discussion
 
In this case, Aurora’s
counsel filed a declaration stating counsel attempted to meet and confer by
sending a letter to Lopez. (Charles Decl., ¶ 3.) Because Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41 places the burden to meet and confer telephonically or in-person on Aurora’s
counsel, the court finds this attempt insufficient as Aurora’s counsel did not
attempt to reach out to Lopez over the telephone or in-person and a letter is
not a code-compliant form of meeting and conferring. Thus, the court finds a
continuance of the hearing on Aurora’s demurrer and motion to strike is
appropriate.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, Aurora’s demurrer and motion to
strike are CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the hearing in Department
G (Pomona).  Aurora’s counsel
is also ordered to meet and confer with Lopez regarding the demurrer and motion
to strike and to file a supplemental declaration describing such meet and
confer efforts at least nine (9) court days before the next scheduled hearing
on the demurrer and motion to strike.
