 Case Number:  24TRCV00364    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                            Thursday, June 6, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                            Calendar
No. 13 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Jalula Roberts v. Torrance Post Acute,
LLC, et al.
            24TRCV00364
1.      Geri-Care, Inc. dba Harbor Post Acute Care Center’s
Petition to Compel Arbitration and Stay Discovery
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Geri-Care, Inc. dba Harbor Post
Acute Care Center’s Petition to Compel Arbitration and Stay Discovery is denied.

 
Background 
            
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on January
31, 2024. April 19, 2023. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff
suffered injuries while in the care of Defendants.  Plaintiffs set forth the following causes of
action: 1. Negligence 2. Elder Abuse 3. Violation of Health and Safety Code
1430.  
 
Motion to
Compel Arbitration
 
            “California law reflects a strong
public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive
method for resolving disputes. 
[Citation.]  To further that policy, [Code of Civil Procedure]
section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration
agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.  [Citation.] 
Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to
arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3)
pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of conflicting
rulings on common factual or legal issues. 
(§ 1281.2, subds. (a)–(c).)”  Acquire
II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967. 
 
“The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid
arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  In these summary proceedings, the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s
discretion, to reach a final determination.”  Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel, Inc.
(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.
 
“The party opposing arbitration has the burden of demonstrating that an
arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to require arbitration of the dispute.  Nonetheless, this policy does not override
ordinary principles of contract interpretation.  [T]he contractual terms themselves must be
carefully examined before the parties to the contract can be ordered to
arbitration:  Although [t]he law favors
contracts for arbitration of disputes between parties, there is no policy
compelling persons to accept arbitration of controversies which they have not
agreed to arbitrate.”  Rice v. Downs
(2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1213, 1223 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
In Rowe v. Exline (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286, the Court of Appeal found that “a nonsignatory sued as
an agent of a signatory may enforce an arbitration agreement.”  Id.
at 1286.  In addition, “a nonsignatory
who is the agent of a signatory can even be compelled to arbitrate claims
against his will.”  Id. at 1285, citing Harris v. Superior Court (1986) 188
Cal.App.3d 475, 477–78.  Further, “in
many cases, nonparties to arbitration agreements are allowed to enforce those
agreements where there is sufficient identity of parties.”  Valley
Casework, Inc. v. Comfort Construction, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 1013,
1021.  This includes nonparties as agents
of a party as well as “a third party beneficiary of an arbitration
agreement.”  Ibid.  
 
            Defendant moves to compel
arbitration and to stay this action pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure §§ 1280, et seq., and the FAA on the grounds that Plaintiff executed
an arbitration agreement wherein Plaintiff is bound to arbitrate the claims
alleged in the Complaint.
 
Defendant attached as Exhibit A to the Declaration of Krista M. Schlueck the purported
agreement that was signed by an individual named Ollie Roberts. The arbitration
provision states as follows:
 
“1.1 It is understood that any dispute as to medical malpractice,
that is as to whether any medical services rendered under this contract were
unnecessary or unauthorized or were improperly, negligently, or incompetently
rendered or not rendered, will be determined by submission to arbitration and
not by a lawsuit or resort to court process. Both parties to this contract, by
entering into it, are giving up their constitutional right to have any such
dispute decided in a court of law before a jury, and instead are accepting the
use of arbitration1.1 It is understood that any dispute as to medical
malpractice, that is as to whether any medical services rendered under this
contract were unnecessary or unauthorized or were improperly, negligently or
incompetently rendered, will be determined by submission to arbitration, ...
and not by a lawsuit or resort to court process. Both parties to this contract,
by entering into it, are giving up their constitutional right to have any such
dispute decided in a court of law before a jury, and instead are accepting the
use of arbitration.” 
“1.2 It is also understood that any and all other
disputes, controversies, demands or claims that relate or arise out of the
provision of services or health care or any failure to provide services or
healthcare by Facility… including, without limitation, claims that allege: …
Health and Code section 1430 claims; violations of the Elder Abuse and
Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act…will be determined by submission to
arbitration and not by a lawsuit or resort to court process except as
California law provides for judicial review of arbitration proceedings. Both
parties to this contract, by entering into it, are giving up their
constitutional right to have any such dispute decided in a court of law before
a jury, and instead are accepting the use of arbitration.”
 
Defendant moves to compel arbitration and to stay the
civil action based on the Plaintiff’s purported son, Ollie Robert’s signature
on the subject arbitration agreement. Defendant acknowledges that the Plaintiff
did not sign the arbitration agreement. 
 
Defendant submitted no competent evidence to establish
that Ollie Roberts had authority to sign the arbitration agreement on behalf of
Plaintiff. A person is not the patient’s authorized agent simply by virtue of
being the patient’s next of kin.  Pagarigan v. Libby Care Center, Inc.
(2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 298, 302 (holding that the patient’s daughters had no
authority to sign arbitration agreement even though they were next of kin where
there was no evidence that she had signed a durable power of attorney despite
the fact that she was comatose at admission). 
Similarly, a patient who signs a power of attorney form after a family
member already signed an arbitration agreement for her does not automatically
ratify the earlier arbitration agreement. 
Flores v. Evergreen At San Diego,
LLC (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 581, 588 (holding that husband could not bind
wife to the arbitration agreement because there was no evidence showing that
the wife gave her express or implied consent to have husband act as her agent).
Similarly, in the instant action, Ollie Roberts signed the arbitration
agreement on April 4, 2023. The power of attorney was signed approximately one
month later on May 5, 2023. (Defendant’s
Ex. C.)
 
Here, Defendant provided no evidence to show that Ollie
Roberts was the Plaintiff’s agent. “An agency is actual when the agent is
really employed by the principal.”  Civ.
Code, § 2299.  Defendant submitted no
evidence that an actual agency was created herein.  “An agency is ostensible when the principal
intentionally, or by want of ordinary care, causes a third person to believe
another to be his agent who is not really employed by him.”  Civ. Code, § 2300.  Defendant submitted no evidence to establish
ostensible agency.  No evidence was
provided as to any acts of the Plaintiff by which Defendant was made to believe
that Ollie Roberts was the Plaintiff’s agent.  
 
“When a defendant contends an agreement to arbitrate
is binding because it was signed by an agent of the plaintiff, the defendant
bears the burden of proving the signatory was the plaintiff's actual or
ostensible agent. A defendant seeking to compel arbitration does not meet its
burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement when it does not
present any evidence that the purported principal's conduct caused the agent or
the [defendant] to believe that the agent had the authority to bind the principal.
In particular, a defendant cannot meet its burden to prove the signatory acted
as the agent of a plaintiff by relying on representations of the purported
agent alone.” Kinder v. Capistrano Beach Care Center, LLC (2023) 91
Cal.App.5th 804, 812 (internal citations and quotations omitted). In Kinder,
the Court held that the mere statement in the arbitration clause that the
signer was acting as resident’s agent was insufficient.  Here, in the instant action, Defendant
provided no evidence to establish that Ollie Roberts was the agent of the
Plaintiff. Defendant cannot simply rely
on the conclusory statement prior to the signature line.
 
The following passage in Pagarigan
v. Libby Care Center, Inc. (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 298, 301–302 is
instructive: “A person cannot become the agent of another merely by
representing herself as such. To be an agent she must actually be so employed
by the principal or “the principal intentionally, or by want
of ordinary care, [has caused] a third person to believe another to be his
agent who is not really employed by him.” Defendant produced no evidence Ms. Pagarigan
had ever employed either of her daughters as her agent in any capacity.  Nor did Defendant produce any evidence this
comatose and mentally incompetent woman did anything which caused them to
believe either of her daughters was authorized to act as her agent in any
capacity.”  Id.
 
Because the moving party
failed to meet its initial burden to show the existence of a valid arbitration
clause with respect to the claims of the Plaintiff, the burden does not shift
to Plaintiff to show that the arbitration clause should not be enforced as to
these claims.  Rice, supra, 247
Cal.App.4th at 1223.
 
Therefore, Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration
and to Stay Discovery is denied.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.