 Case Number:  23AHCV01377    Hearing Date:   July 12, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO QUASH SUBPOENAS TO MEDICAL PROVIDERS; DENYING REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS I. INTRODUCTION  On June
15, 2023, Plaintiff Christopher Mills (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendants Xin Sun and Lei Song (jointly “Defendants”) asserting motor vehicle
negligence and negligence per se causes of action. Plaintiff alleges that he suffered
serious injuries on December 16, 2021, when Defendant Sun, driving Defendant
Song’s vehicle, pulled out of a driveway and negligently hit Plaintiff, who was
a pedestrian.From
January 16, 2024 to January 25, 2024, Defendants served several subpoenas for the
production of business records on Plaintiff’s health care providers including:
(1) Subhash Dhand, Inc., a general practitioner, offering substance abuse and
mental health services, (2) Joel Miller, M.D., physiatrist, (3) John Sovec,
therapist and counselor, and (4) Aurora Charter Oak Hospital, a behavioral
healthcare facility (together the “medical providers”).  The subpoenas requested:  “Records…within
the last 10 years from the date of this subpoena, regarding [Plaintiff]….to
include but not limited to examinations, medical history, diagnosis, treatment,
testing, radiology, prognosis, prescriptions, and billing[.]”(Declaration
of LaShon Harris, “Harris Decl.,” ¶¶ 6-8, Exhs A-E.)On
February 9, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel delivered a meet and confer letter to
Defendant’s counsel requesting that Defendant withdraw the subpoenas as their
scope posed an invasion of Plaintiff’s right to privacy. On February 15, 2024, Plaintiff
filed the instant motion to quash the subpoenas. On April 15, 2024, Defendant
filed an opposition. To date, no reply has been filed. The hearing is scheduled
for July 12, 2024. A jury trial is set for April 29, 2025.                       
II.         
LEGAL STANDARDCode Civ. Proc. §1987.1: “(a)
If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity
to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.” Subd.
(b)(1) permits a party to seek relief. Code
Civ. Proc. §1987.2 provides for an award of sanctions in the court’s
discretion. “[I]n making an order pursuant to motion made under. . . Section
1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable
expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable
attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith
or without substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of
the subpoena was oppressive.”             Code
Civ. Proc. §1985.3:  “(g)¿Any
consumer whose personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is
a party to the civil action in which this subpoena duces tecum is served may,
prior to the date for production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash
or modify the subpoena duces tecum. Notice of the bringing of that motion shall
be given to the witness and deposition officer at least five days prior to
production. The failure to provide notice to the deposition officer shall not
invalidate the motion to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum but may be
raised by the deposition officer as an affirmative defense in any action for
liability for improper release of records. Any
other consumer or nonparty whose personal records are sought by a subpoena
duces tecum may, prior to the date of production, serve on the subpoenaing
party, the witness, and the deposition officer, a written objection that cites
the specific grounds on which production of the personal records should be
prohibited. No
witness or deposition officer shall be required to produce personal records
after receipt of notice that the motion has been brought by a consumer, or
after receipt of a written objection from a nonparty consumer, except upon
order of the court in which the action is pending or by agreement of the
parties, witnesses, and consumers affected.” (CCP § 1985.3(g).)                    
III.         
ANALYSISa.    
Motion to Quash as to Medical
ProvidersRelevancePlaintiff
argues the subpoenas served on the medical providers request documents that are
not relevant because they have no direct correlation to the injuries from the
accident and would violate Plaintiff’s right to medical privacy.“‘[F]or
discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a
party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement’
and ‘[a]dmissibility is not the test and information, unless privileged, is
discoverable if it might reasonably lead to admissible evidence.’  These rules are applied liberally in favor of
discovery . . . and (contrary to popular belief) fishing expeditions are
permissible in some cases.”  (Cruz v.
Superior Court (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 646, 653, citations omitted.)  The Court must “balance the public need
against the weight of the privacy right,” and only serious invasions of privacy
will bar discovery.  (Crab Addison,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 958, 966.)  There is not an egregious invasion of privacy
every time there is a request for private information, and courts must “place
the burden on the party asserting a privacy interest to establish its extent
and seriousness of the prospective invasion.” 
(Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.)Plaintiff
argues that substance abuse treatment records and mental health treatment records
deserve robust protection and Defendants’ broad requests are not relevant to
the instant action. (Motion, p. 9.) Specifically, Plaintiff argues that
documents related to substance abuse treatment should be protected under physician-patient
and psychotherapist-patient privileges because there is no indication that
Plaintiff was suspected of being under the influence of a substance during the incident.
(Motion p. 9; Harris Decl., ¶ 13.) Plaintiff relies on the January 11, 2024,
deposition of Beth Fournier, the responding paramedic who “unequivocally
confirmed that Plaintiff had not been suspected as being under the influence of
alcohol or drugs at the time of the incident.” (Id.)In
opposition, Defendants argue that Plaintiff has placed his medical condition,
including emotional injuries, at issue in this action, making the request for
mental health records relevant. (See e.g., Britt v.
Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 849 [plaintiffs waive the
physician-patient and psychotherapist-patient privileges to all information
concerning medical conditions which they place at issue in a lawsuit].) Defendants
argue that they are entitled to the records from medical providers to properly evaluate
Plaintiff’s injuries for the calculation of damages, which includes evaluating the
nature of extent of any pre-existing medical and physiological conditions.
(Opp’n., pp. 8-9.) Plaintiff
urges that any substance abuse treatment records are not relevant, as he was
not suspected of being under the influence of substance or alcohol by the first
responders to the accident. (Harris Decl. ¶ 13.) The Court agrees.  Had there been evidence of Plaintiff being
under the influence of drugs or alcohol at the time of the accident, the Court
would view this request differently. 
However, given the current state of the evidence, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s
substance treatment records are not relevant. 
Regarding
Plaintiff’s injuries, Plaintiff points out that none of the listed medical
providers treated Plaintiff for any of the injuries he allegedly suffered in
this case.  Plaintiff also argues that the
disclosure of these documents would invade Plaintiff’s right to privacy.  In a personal injury case, it is reasonable
for a Defendant to seek Plaintiff’s medical records relating to past injuries
that are the same or substantially similar to the injuries allegedly caused by
Defendant.  In this case, Defendants have
not made this showing.  Defendants have
not demonstrated the relevance of any information contained in Plaintiff’s past
medical records.  Defendant
is entitled only to records related to Plaintiff’s injuries that are at issue
in this action, not records spanning a decade before the 2021 accident. Any
inquiry into them must be narrowly tailored, to limit impingement on privacy. (Wood
vs. Superior Court (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 1138, 1149.) Specifically, the
party seeking the subpoena must “identify the particular records that contain
pertinent information and, unless it is obvious to a lay person, show why that
information must be obtained to resolve the investigation.” (Id. at
1150.) The requests for production of medical records are not narrowly
tailored, as they simply seeks all records involving Plaintiff. Therefore, the motion to quash is granted.b.    
SanctionsCal.
Civ. Proc. Code § 1987.2(a) provides: Except as specified in subdivision (c),
in making an order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section
1987 or under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount
of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.            The Court declines to award monetary
sanctions to either side, as the Court does not find the motion was made nor
opposed in bad faith. Both parties raised reasoned arguments as to privilege,
privacy, and scope of the deposition subpoena at issue.                    
IV.         
CONCLUSION AND ORDERThe
motion to quash is GRANTED. Plaintiff
to give notice. Dated: July 12, 2024 










































































 


 




 


JARED
  D. MOSESJUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT

 




[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN PART MOTION TO  QUASH SUBPOENA TO ARCADIA POLICE DEPARTMENT; DENYING REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS I.     Introduction  On June  15, 2023, Plaintiff Christopher Mills (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against  Defendants Xin Sun and Lei Song (jointly “Defendants”) asserting motor vehicle  negligence and negligence per se causes of action.Plaintiff alleges that he suffered serious injuries on December 16, 2021, when Defendant Sun, driving Defendant Song's vehicle, pulled out of a driveway and negligently hit Plaintiff, who was a pedestrian.  On  January 25, 2024, Defendants served a subpoena for production of business records  on Arcadia Police Department for the following documents: 1.      All computer-aided dispatch (CAD) events  to 634 West Huntington Drive, Arcadia, CA 91007 and 642 West Huntington Drive,  Arcadia, CA 91007 for the five (5) years prior to this subpoena to present; 2.      Video from digital camera #70 recorded by  Officer Graham and bodycam footage of the June 6, 2023, incident involving  [Plaintiff] at 634 West Huntington Drive, Arcadia CA, (Booking3 6618812, LA  County# 102544, File/CAD# 2302462); 3.      Arcadia Police Weekly Activity Report for  the weeks of June 28, 2020, August 1, 2021, February 13, 2022, April 24, 2024,  March 12, 2023, and March 26, 2023; 4.      All records, reports, call for service,  arrests, booking records, investigations, photographs, video, and bodycam  footage relating to the following incidents: a) July 3, 2020 (File/CAD#2007030052;  b) August 5, 2021 (File/CAD#2108050120 and File/CAD#2108050122; c) February 13,  2022 (File/CAD#2202130039); d) April 24, 2022 (File/CAD 2204240103); e) March  14, 2023 (File/CAD# 2303140089), and f) March 28, 2023 (file/CAD# 2303280099) (Declaration  of LaShon Harris, “Harris Decl.,” ¶¶ 7, Exhs. B.) On  February 9, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel delivered a meet and confer letter to  Defendants’ counsel requesting that Defendants withdraw the subpoenas as their  scope posed an invasion of Plaintiff’s right to privacy. On February 15, 2024, Plaintiff  filed the instant motion to quash the subpoenas. On April 15, 2024, Defendants  filed an opposition. To date, no reply has been filed. The hearing is scheduled  for July 12, 2024. A jury trial is set for April 29, 2025.                          II.           LEGAL STANDARD Code Civ. Proc. §1987.1:  “(a)  If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,  documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,  or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the  court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),  or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity  to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or  directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall  declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other  order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or  oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy  of the person.”  Subd.  (b)(1) permits a party to seek relief.  Code  Civ. Proc. §1987.2 provides for an award of sanctions in the court’s  discretion. “[I]n making an order pursuant to motion made under. . . Section  1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable  expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable  attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith  or without substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of  the subpoena was oppressive.”              Code  Civ. Proc. §1985.3:   “(g)¿Any  consumer whose personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is  a party to the civil action in which this subpoena duces tecum is served may,  prior to the date for production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash  or modify the subpoena duces tecum. Notice of the bringing of that motion shall  be given to the witness and deposition officer at least five days prior to  production. The failure to provide notice to the deposition officer shall not  invalidate the motion to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum but may be  raised by the deposition officer as an affirmative defense in any action for  liability for improper release of records.  Any  other consumer or nonparty whose personal records are sought by a subpoena  duces tecum may, prior to the date of production, serve on the subpoenaing  party, the witness, and the deposition officer, a written objection that cites  the specific grounds on which production of the personal records should be  prohibited.  No  witness or deposition officer shall be required to produce personal records  after receipt of notice that the motion has been brought by a consumer, or  after receipt of a written objection from a nonparty consumer, except upon  order of the court in which the action is pending or by agreement of the  parties, witnesses, and consumers affected.” (CCP § 1985.3(g).)                       III.           ANALYSIS a.      Motion to Quash as to Arcadia Police  Department Relevance “‘[F]or  discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a  party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement’  and ‘[a]dmissibility is not the test and information, unless privileged, is  discoverable if it might reasonably lead to admissible evidence.’  These rules are applied liberally in favor of  discovery . . . and (contrary to popular belief) fishing expeditions are  permissible in some cases.”  (Cruz v.  Superior Court (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 646, 653, citations omitted.)  The Court must “balance the public need  against the weight of the privacy right,” and only serious invasions of privacy  will bar discovery.  (Crab Addison,  Inc. v. Superior Court (2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 958, 966.)  There is not an egregious invasion of privacy  every time there is a request for private information, and courts must “place  the burden on the party asserting a privacy interest to establish its extent  and seriousness of the prospective invasion.”   (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.) Plaintiff  argues that Defendants’ request for Plaintiff’s arrest records is too broad and  not relevant to the instant action. (Motion, p. 6) Specifically, Plaintiff  argues that documents related to an arrest where no conviction resulted have a constitutionally  recognized privacy right. (Central Valley Cap. 7th Step Foundation v.  Younger (1979) 95 Cal.App. 3d 212; see also Denari v. Superior Court  (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 1488, 1498 [release of arrest records or dissemination of  information about arrest implicates the right to privacy of the arrestees,  which is protected by the California Constitution; Motion p. 7.)  In  opposition, Defendants argue that they are entitled to Plaintiff’s previous  arrest records because they contain evidence of a pattern of incidents of Plaintiff’s  harassment and altercations with Asian and Hispanic members of his community  and injuries sustained by Plaintiff to the date of the subject  incident. “The requested records would determine the motivation for bringing this  action against defendants, herein who are Asian as well as the claims in this action.”             The Court finds that this argument conflates two  disparate sets of incidents: 1) past incidents involving acts of alleged aggressive  or racist behavior; and 2) past incidents which resulted in injuries to  Plaintiff.  As to the first set, the documents  sought have no relevance to the allegations in the current matter and violate  Plaintiff’s right to privacy under the California Constitution.  Police reports and associated documents  relating to allegations of past conduct by Plaintiff involving racist or  aggressive behavior would arguably be discoverable in a case involving  allegations of battery and self-defense.   However, in a vehicle versus pedestrian accident case involving  allegations of negligence, they are not.   As to all category 1 documents, the Court grants the motion to quash.               However, past incidents which may have resulted in injury  to Plaintiff, if such incidents preceded the accident in the present case and  are recent in time, are discoverable.  The  May 8, 2021 incident, described in Defendants’ opposition, may have resulted in  physical injury to Plaintiff similar to the injuries alleged in the current  case.  This incident occurred  approximately seven months before the accident involving Defendants.  The Court finds that any documents relating  to this incident are relevant and Defendants’ right to such documents overcomes  Plaintiff’s privacy objection.  The Court  denies the motion to quash as to these documents. b.      Sanctions Cal.  Civ. Proc. Code § 1987.2(a) provides: Except as specified in subdivision (c),  in making an order pursuant to motion made under subdivision (c) of Section  1987 or under Section 1987.1, the court may in its discretion award the amount  of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including  reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed  in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the  requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.             The Court declines to award monetary  sanctions to either side, as the Court does not find the motion was made nor  opposed in bad faith. Both parties raised reasoned arguments as to privilege,  privacy, and scope of the subpoena at issue.                       IV.           CONCLUSION AND ORDER Accordingly,  the motion to quash is GRANTED.   Plaintiff  to give notice.           Dated: July 12, 2024                   JARED    D. MOSESJUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT  