On February 7, 2023, a jury entered verdicts in favor of Plaintiffs DONE! Ventures, LLC (“Done!”) and Coastal Laundromat, Inc. (“Coastal”), and against Defendants Jerry Jamgotchian, El Segundo Plaza Associates L.P. (“ESPA”), and Theta Holding IV, Inc. (“Theta”), for Plaintiffs’ claims for interference with contract, negligent interference with prospective economic advantage, and breach of contract.On May 18, 2023, Done! filed a memorandum of costs in the amount of $2,391.826.07.Defendants now seek to tax Plaintiff’s costs.  The Court’s prior tentative ruling was as follows:Plaintiff argues that “Rule 3.1700 provided no discretion to consider a tardy motion to tax costs. Indeed, Defendants’ notice of motion to tax costs was due on or before June 3, 2023. This Court could have extended the time for Defendants to serve a notice of motion to tax costs only thirty (30) days, or July 3, 2023. Defendants did not file the parte application until September 6, 2023 – two months after this Court’s authority to extend Defendants’ deadline expired. Accordingly, the clerk ‘must’ immediately enter [Done!’s] costs on the judgment. Respectfully, this Court has no discretion to do otherwise. Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to tax costs is severely tardy and therefore cannot be considered on its merits for this reason alone.”Rule 3.1700(b)(1) states, “Any notice of motion to strike or to tax costs must be served and filed 15 days after service of the cost memorandum. If the cost memorandum was served by mail, the period is extended as provided in Code of Civil Procedure section 1013. If the cost memorandum was served electronically, the period is extended as provided in Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6(a)(4).”Here, the memorandum of costs was filed on May 18, 2023, and, while Defendants hotly dispute service, Plaintiff has attached an email showing that service occurred on the same day.  Therefore, the Motion is untimely to the extent it was filed in September 2023.  Thus, the Motion has been waived and is denied.On the other hand, the memo of costs includes a request for $2,176,484.61 in prejudgment interest, which is not an actual component of costs.  The grounds for prejudgment interest were already rejected in the Court’s September 5, 2023, ruling, and the Court will, again, not allow such interest to be awarded.  The interest is stricken from the memo of costs. The Court then continued the Motion to obtain metadata from Done! establishing that it served Defendants by email. Done! now comes forth with data showing that its email containing the memo of costs was “Delivered after 0 seconds” to the intended recipients on May 18, 2023.   Defendants argue that this data does not show that the emails were actually delivered and, when defense counsel ran experiments on how long it would take to send such an email, it took several seconds, such that 0 seconds is suspicious. First, it’s ridiculous to believe that the Court would require Done! to subpoena defense counsel’s email providers, which is the only way to definitively prove that these emails were delivered.  If this issue is so important to Defendants, they could have subpoenaed that information themselves.  The data provided by Done! is sufficient to show that the email was sent out, and Done!’s counsel, Justice D. Turner, testifies there was no notification that the email was undelivered.   Second, the time displayed as “0 seconds” is not the time it took for the email to be delivered, but rather the time it took for the email to be handed off to the next server down the line.  The actual time it took for the email to be delivered is unclear and would, as Defendants suggest, require data from their providers’ servers.  Third, the time it takes to send an email is not so simple and relies on a host of factors including, but not limited to, network speed, devices used, and server conditions.   Defendants also point to the fact that they received metadata from Coastal’s counsel, Hix, who also testified that he received the May 18, 2023, email, but this metadata purportedly doesn’t show a May 18 delivery, but rather receipt of a May 19 email from an unknown sender.   This lacks merit.  If you closely examine the data, yes, there is data pertaining to something on May 19, but there is also data included that clearly pertains to an email received from “Justice Turner” on May 18, 2023, at 17:47:29, which matches the time that Turner sent the email and Hix received it.   It’s also hard to believe that Turner and Hix entered into a conspiracy to defraud defense counsel with false email service and went as far as creating multiple images of false emails. It is very unlikely that these emails were undelivered and Turner received no notification of this.  What most likely happened is that these emails were filtered out by defense counsel’s email system and sent into a spam folder or the like and then subsequently deleted without their knowledge.  After all, defense counsel did not begin looking for this email until September 2023. The Court finds that Done! served Defendants, and the Court’s prior ruling stands. Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 