 Case Number:  21STCV35189    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  26, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV35189




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Forensic Digital Device Examination of Defendant’s Cellular Phones




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Elia Rosa Mercado Leiva




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants
  Mickey Vasquez, Red Bull North America, Inc., Red Bull Distribution Company,
  Inc. 



 
BACKGROUND
 
On September 24, 2021
Plaintiff Elia Rosa Mercado Leiva (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against
Defendants Mickey Vasquez, Red Bull North America, Inc., and Does 1 to 50 for injuries resulting from a motor vehicle
accident. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Mickey Vasquez (Vasquez) was driving
the subject vehicle and was distracted by his cell phone. 
 
Plaintiff now moves to compel further
the forensic digital device examination of Vasquez’s cellular phones:
his work phone and personal phone. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A demand for an inspection must set forth the following:
 
1)
Designate the documents, tangible things, land or other property, or
electronically stored information to be inspected, copied, tested, or sampled
either by specifically describing each individual item or by reasonably
particularizing each category of item.
 
(2)
Specify a reasonable time for the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling 
 
(3)
Specify a reasonable place for making the inspection, copying, testing, or
sampling, and performing any related activity.
 
(4)
Specify any inspection, copying, testing, sampling, or related activity that is
being demanded, as well as the manner in which that activity will be performed,
and whether that activity will permanently alter or destroy the item involved.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc. § 2031.030.) 
 
“On receipt of a response to a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an order
compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems that any
of the following apply: . . . (2) A representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; (3) An objection in the response is without
merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310 (a).)  The motion must set forth facts showing good
cause exists to justify the demand. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310(b)(1).) 
 
“The court shall limit the frequency or extent of
discovery of electronically stored information, even from a source that is
reasonably accessible, if the court determines that any of the following
conditions exists:
(1) It is
possible to obtain the information from some other source that is more
convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive.
(2) The
discovery sought is unreasonably cumulative or duplicative.
(3) The party
seeking discovery has had ample opportunity by discovery in the action to
obtain the information sought.
(4) The
likely burden or expense of the proposed discovery outweighs the likely
benefit, taking into account the amount in controversy, the resources of the
parties, the importance of the issues in the litigation, and the importance of
the requested discovery in resolving the issues.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310
(g).) 
 
When seeking production of
documents or a demand for inspection, the moving party has the initial burden
to show good cause for the inspection. 
If good cause is shown, the burden to justify an objection to the
discovery request is on the party asserting the objection.  (See Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)
 
MEET AND
CONFER
 
The Declaration of Armine Khatchaturian states that as
part of the meet and confer process, she created a Proposed Stipulation
governing the inspection of the two cell phones. (Khatchaturian Decl. ¶ 5, Exh.
D.) The Declaration also states the parties have met and conferred about
various discovery disputes and have attached emails as proof. (Id. ¶ 13, 15,
Exh. L.) Therefore, it appears Plaintiff has met and conferred in good faith. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
On August 8, 2023, Plaintiff served
a demand for inspection on Vasquez for his two cell phones. (Khatchaturian
Decl. ¶ 12, Exh. K.) Plaintiff seeks to have the data in the cell phones downloaded
and extracted. On August 15, 2023, Vasquez served an objection to the demands.
(Id. ¶ 15, Exh. N.) 
 
Plaintiff appears to be proposing
that a third party make a mirror image of the phones, then extract data limited
to the data on April 30, 2021 between 5:00 and 9:00, then prepare a report
which will first be sent to Defense counsel to raise any potential privilege
concerns.
 
As an initial matter, it does not
appear that Plaintiff is seeking an order compelling “all data,” as argued by
Defendants. Rather, the mirror image appears to be necessary for forensic
copying and extraction purposes, but Plaintiff apparently will not be provided
with “all data.” Rather, Plaintiff argues that the data within the specified
period of time is relevant to determine whether Defendant was distracted by a
cell phone. Specifically, Plaintiff states the motor vehicle accident
surrounding this case took place on April 30, 2021 at 5:30 a.m. Plaintiff
testified that on the day of the accident, she noticed cars stopped ahead at
the freeway. (Id. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) She slowed down her vehicle and put her hazard
lights on. Another witness, Aaron Hamilton, did the same. Vasquez was driving
the vehicle behind Plaintiff and is alleged to have crashed directly behind
her, without stopping. (Id. ¶ 2.) Call records for Vasquez’s work phone
indicate data was used at 5:05:35 a.m., 5:28 a.m., and 5:31 a.m.; however the
records alone do not describe the nature of the phone activity.[1] Plaintiff
argues a forensic digital examination of the cell phones is required because it
may present evidence that Vasquez was using his cell phone, and was distracted,
when the accident occurred. Plaintiff suspects Vasquez may have been distracted
because Plaintiff, Aaron Hamilton, and other drivers slowed down in time. Additionally,
Vasquez has no evidence that the accident was caused by a mechanical failure or
medical condition. (Id. ¶ 4, Exh. C.) 
 
Based on the above, Plaintiff has provided
sufficient justification for the inspection of the cell phones because it could
provide evidence of Vasquez using his phones while driving, and therefore, failing
to see the stopped cars ahead. The burden to justify the objections now shifts
to Vasquez.
 
Vasquez generally objects to the
scope of the demand. In particular, he first questions how Plaintiff’s expert
will be able to discern background data versus active data that would suggest
Vasquez was using his cell phone before the accident. Second, he objects that
the procedure will not safeguard his private data and argues it violates his
right to privacy. Third, he argues the demand is vague and ambiguous. 
 
Plaintiff argues that her Proposed
Stipulation (Khatchaturian Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. D) addresses most of Vasquez’s
objections.  
 
Active Data
 
Defendant argues that the Demand
does not specify how “active use” data on the cell phone will be differentiated
from “background data.” (Opp., 5.) This argument is also related to his concern
that Plaintiff has not described how the data will show Vasquez was distracted
by his phone. Plaintiff contends that this issue is better suited for the
forensic experts to resolve. (Reply, 2.) Code of Civil Procedure section
2017.010 requires discoverable information to be relevant to the subject matter
of the pending action, if the matter is either admissible or “appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” Plaintiff
is not required to know in advance whether the evidence will be admissible.
 
Right to Privacy
 
Discovery can be limited if it infringes on the right of privacy. “The
state Constitution expressly grants Californians a right of privacy. (Cal.
Const., art. I, § 1.) Protection of informational privacy is the provision's
central concern. [Citation omitted.] In Hill, we established a framework
for evaluating potential invasions of privacy. The party asserting a privacy
right must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively
reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened
intrusion that is serious. [Citation omitted.] The party seeking information
may raise in response whatever legitimate and important countervailing
interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection may identify
feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective measures that
would diminish the loss of privacy. A court must then balance these competing
considerations. [citation omitted].” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017)
3 Cal.5th 531, 533 (citing Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn.
(1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35.) 
 
Here, Vasquez does not discuss the Hill
factors, but instead analogizes this case to Fults
v. Superior Court (1979)
88 Cal.App.3d 899. However, that case involved a paternity action and a discovery
request that asked for a witness’ sexual history for a full year—beyond the
time possible for the child’s conception. (Id. at 901-02.) The court held this
was unconstitutionally broad since it sought intimate information and did not
appear likely to produce material information. (Id. at 905.) Here, the demand
is not as broad because Plaintiff is seeking data from the date of the
accident, from 5:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. Defendants have not established that the
factors in Hill support denying the request for discovery. 
 
The Court further notes that Plaintiff contends that
Vasquez’s privacy interests will be protected because Plaintiff has agreed to
make the report available to Vasquez before Plaintiff. Afterward, Vasquez can direct
the withholding and redaction of information on the basis of privilege or
protection. Additionally, Vasquez may retain a forensic expert at the
inspection. These protections appear to diminish the loss of privacy.
 
Scope
 
Lastly, Vasquez appears to object
to the timeframe of the data extraction. Plaintiff seeks data from 5:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. on the day of the
accident, which she suggests was agreed upon. (Sep. State., 5.) However, in the
opposition, Vasquez appears to only allow five minutes before and after the
accident. (Opp., 11.) The Court is inclined to limit the time frame of
extraction from 5:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. on the day of the accident, unless
Plaintiff can demonstrate good cause.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS the motion to compel subject to the terms of
the stipulation provided by Plaintiff as Exhibit D to the motion.  
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such.
 


