 Case Number:  21STCV02031    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  26, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV02031




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Specially Set Hearing on Motions to Compel Interrogatories and Request for
  Production




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Trader Joe’s Company 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendant Trader Joe’s Company (Defendant) has filed a motion to compel
interrogatories and requests for production, set to be heard on May 16, 2024.
Defendant contends this was the earliest available date on the Court’s
reservation system. However, the trial in this case is set for March 13, 2024.
Defendant now moves to specially set the discovery motions to be heard before
trial.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A court has the power to provide for the orderly conduct of
proceedings before it and to amend or control its process and orders so as to make them
conform to law and justice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 128(a)(3), (8).) 
 
A party has a right to complete discovery proceedings on or before
the 30th day, and to have motions concerning discovery heard on or
before the 15th day, before the date initially set for trial. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2024.020.) 
 
Plaintiff Robert Ames, in pro per, (Plaintiff) filed a declaration on
October 17, 2023 and did not object to this motion. Accordingly, the Court
grants the request to advance the hearing dates.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
The motions to compel responses to Interrogatories and Requests for
Production, currently scheduled for May 16, 2023, are advanced to January 10,
2024 at 1:30 p.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse. All
opposition and reply briefs must be timely filed consistent with the Code of
Civil Procedure.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 