 Case Number:  21STCV04697    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  26, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV04697




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Plaintiff’s Psychological Examination, or in the alternative, for
  Terminating, Issue, or Evidentiary Sanctions




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Wilshire Skyline, Inc., 6401
  Wilshire Boulevard, LLC, and Sergio Gabriel Macias Gutierrez




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Mihailo Stanic 



 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 5, 2021, Plaintiff
Mihailo Stanic (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendants Wilshire
Skyline, Inc., 6401 Wilshire Boulevard, LLC, and Sergio Gabriel Macias
Gutierrez (Defendants) for injuries resulting from a bicyclist/motor vehicle
accident. 
 
On August 4, 2023, the Court granted a motion to compel Plaintiff’s psychological
examination with Dr. Judy Ho within 30 days of notice of the order. Defendants
served a notice of the examination on August 4, 2023, scheduled for August 30,
2023 and September 1, 2023. (Partida Decl. ¶ 5.) Attached to the notice was
exhibit ‘A” which contained requirements for the examination. The requirement
at issue here states that if Plaintiff attends the examination remotely, he
must be physically present in California, per Dr. Ho’s license to practice.
(Id. ¶ 5, Exh. B.) On August 28, 2023, Plaintiff asserted that he would appear
for the exam remotely but from Serbia. (Id. ¶ 8, Exh. E.) Plaintiff contends he
moved to Serbia in April 2023 and resides there. Defendants allege that since
Plaintiff’s location was never raised in opposition to the original motion to
compel, it has been waived. Still, Defendants offered to pay Plaintiff’s
reasonable travel costs, but Plaintiff did not respond. (Id. ¶ 9.)  Defendants also allege that Plaintiff’s
discovery responses and a Westlaw search indicate that he lives in California.
(Id., Exh. F.) 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
If a party is required to submit
to a physical or mental examination and fails to submit, a court may impose
issue, evidence, or terminating sanctions against the party who failed to
appear. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2032.410.) A court may impose monetary
sanctions in lieu of or in addition to non-monetary sanctions. (Id.) 
 
“The trial court may order a
terminating sanction for discovery abuse ‘after considering the totality of the
circumstances: [the] conduct of the party to determine if the actions were
willful; the detriment to the propounding party; and the number of formal and
informal attempts to obtain the discovery.’” (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez
(2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 377, 390, quoting Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77
Cal. App. 4th 1225, 1246.)   
 
A court should select sanctions
that are tailored to the harm caused by the misuse of the discovery process
that should not exceed what is required to protect the party harmed by that
misuse. (Department of Forestry & Fire Protection v Howell (2017) 18
CA5th 154, 191, disapproved on other grounds.) Sanctions should generally be
imposed in an incremental approach, with terminating sanctions being the last
resort. (Id.) 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTION
 
The Court overrules Defendants’ objection to the Declaration
of Lawrence D. Marks.        
 
DISCUSSION
 
As an initial matter, the Court notes that
Defendants specified in the Notice of Motion that this motion was made pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure sections 2024.010, et seq. and 2024.050. (See Code
Civ. Proc. § 1010.) However, based on the memorandum, the motion appears to be
based on Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.410 for failure to comply with a
court order. While a court may generally only consider the grounds stated in
the notice of motion, “[a]n omission in the notice may be overlooked if the
supporting papers make clear the grounds for the relief sought.” (Luri v. Greenwald¿(2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1119, 1125.)
Therefore, the motion will be analyzed pursuant to section 2032.410. 
 
The initial motion to compel examination
attached as Exhibit F a demand for independent psychological examination, which
attached Exhibit A, containing the “date and location” of the examination. (See
Motion for Independent Psychological Examination [hereinafter “Motion”], Exh. F
[“The plaintiff agrees they will physically be in the state of California for
the telehealth evaluation, as that is the requirements of Dr. Ho’s California
license to practice.”].) A meet and confer letter also specified the location.
(Motion at Exh. G, p. 63.) In opposition to the original motion, Plaintiff did
not raise any objection to the location of the examination.[1] In addition, no
motion for reconsideration or any other motion raising an objection was filed.
Accordingly, the Court finds that Plaintiff has waived any objection to the
location of the examination or the payment of costs. The Court therefore grants
Defendants’ motion to compel.
 
Although
the Court would be inclined to find that there was no substantial justification
for the refusal to abide by the Court’s order compelling the examination,
Defendants’ notice of motion does not specify what sanctions are requested and
as to whom.[2] Accordingly,
the request for sanctions is denied as procedurally defective. (See,
e.g., Sole Energy Co. v. Hodges (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 199, 207-08.)
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to compel Plaintiff’s
psychological examination and DENIES the motion for sanctions. Plaintiff is
ordered to appear at a psychological examination within 30 days.
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file proof of
service of such.
 


