  Case Number:  20STCV06823    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  26, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV06823




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Randall Pomeroy and Janell
  Pomeroy




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Ronald Ortiz  



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment; Memorandum of Points and Authorities; Declaration of Kristine M.
Gamboa
2.      Separate Statement
3.      Index of Exhibits
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.      Plaintiff’s Memorandum of Points and
Authorities in Opposition
2.      Separate Statement of Material Facts and
Additional Material Facts
3.      Declaration of Brad P. Avrit
4.      Declaration of Raymond Ghermezian
 
REPLY PAPERS
1.      Memorandum of Points and Authorities in Reply[1]
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 21, 2020,
Plaintiff Ronald Ortiz (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendants Randall
Pomeroy, Janell Pomeroy, and Does 1 to 100 for negligence and premises
liability after falling off a roof on property owned by Defendants Randall
Pomeroy and Janell Pomeroy (Defendants). The Complaint alleges that a
“dangerous condition was known, or, in the exercise of ordinary and reasonable
care, should have been known to Defendant.” (Complaint ¶ 19.) 
 
Defendants now move for
summary judgment arguing they are not liable under Privette v. Superior
Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689. Plaintiff opposes and Defendants reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)                        
 
DISCUSSION
 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016)
1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) The elements of a cause of action for premises
liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and
damages. (McIntyre v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th
664, 671.) 
 
1. WORKERS’ COMPENSATION –
EXCLUSIVE REMEDY
 
Under Labor Code section 3602,
“[w]here the conditions of compensation set forth in Section 3600 concur, the
right to recover compensation is, except as specifically provided in this
section and Sections 3706 and 4558, the sole and exclusive remedy of the
employee or his or her dependents against the employer.” (Lab. Code, § 3602,
subd. (a).) Section 3602, subdivisions (b) and (c) set forth the exceptions to
the exclusive remedy provision of subdivision (a). Additionally, the exclusive
remedy provision of Section 3602, subdivision (a) does not apply where an
employer fails to secure the payment of compensation or where the employee’s
injury or death is proximately caused by the employer's knowing removal of, or
knowing failure to install, a point of operation guard on a power press. (See
Lab. Code, §§ 3607, 4558.)
 
2.      PRESUMPTION
OF EMPLOYEE STATUS
 
In Privette v. Superior Court,
the California Supreme Court affirmed that “[u]nder the Workers' Compensation
Act, all employees are automatically entitled to recover benefits for injuries
“arising out of and¿in the course of the employment,” and that “[w]hen the
conditions of compensation exist, recovery under the workers' compensation
scheme “is the exclusive remedy against an employer for injury or death of an
employee.” (Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, 697.) Labor
Code section 2750.5 provides “[t]here is a rebuttable presumption affecting the
burden of proof that a worker performing services for which a license is
required… or who is performing such services for a person who is required to
obtain such a license is an employee rather than an independent contractor.”
 
The language of section 2750.5
could not be clearer. The plain meaning of the penultimate paragraph of section
2750.5 conditions a finding of independent contractor status as to a person
performing services for which a contractor's license is required upon
possession by that person of a valid license. By stating that a license is a
condition of the status, the Legislature has unequivocally stated that the
person lacking the requisite license may not be an independent contractor.
Thus, if one performs work on a construction job for which a license is
required, without holding a valid license, one is by definition an employee,
not an independent contractor, pursuant to section 2750.5.
 
(Neighbours v. Buzz Oates Enterprises (1990) 217
Cal.App.3d 325, 330 [cleaned up].) Further, “[u]nder the plain meaning of
section 2750.5, any unlicensed subcontractor is the employee of the general
contractor; consequently, as a matter of law, the employee of an unlicensed
subcontractor is the employee of the principal contractor.” (Ibid.) “The
rule of workers’ compensation exclusivity, which shields an independent
contractor who pays workers’ compensation insurance premiums from further
liability to its employee, should equally apply to the person hiring the
contractor because the hirer has indirectly paid the cost of such coverage
inasmuch as it was presumably calculated into the contract price.” (Camargo
v. Tjaarda Dairy (2001) 25 Cal.4th 1235, 1244 [Privette/ Toland bars
an employee of an independent contractor from bringing a negligent hiring
action against the hirer of the contractor].)
 
3.      EXCEPTIONS TO PRIVETTE DOCTRINE
“At common law, a person who hired an independent
contractor generally was not liable to third parties for injuries caused by the
contractor's negligence in performing the work.” (Privette v. Superior Court
(1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, 693 (hereafter Privette.) “Central to this rule of
nonliability was the recognition that a person who hired an independent
contractor had no right of control as to the mode of doing the work contracted
for.” (Ibid.) 
Subsequently, in Gonzalez v. Mathis, the California
Supreme Court revisited the Privette doctrine and the exceptions to the
doctrine.
There is a strong presumption under California law that a
hirer of an independent contractor delegates to the contractor all
responsibility for workplace safety. This means that a hirer is typically not
liable for injuries sustained by an independent contractor or its workers while
on the job. Commonly referred to as the Privette doctrine, the
presumption originally stemmed from the following rationales: First, hirers
usually have no right to control an independent contractor's work. Second,
contractors can factor in the cost of safety precautions and insurance coverage
in the contract price. Third, contractors are able to obtain workers’
compensation to cover any on-the-job injuries. Finally, contractors are
typically hired for their expertise, which enables them to perform the
contracted-for work safely and successfully.
We have nevertheless identified two limited circumstances
in which the presumption is overcome. First, in Hooker v. Department of
Transportation (2002) 27 Cal.4th 198, 115 Cal.Rptr.2d 853, 38 P.3d 1081 (Hooker),
we held that a hirer may be liable when it retains control over any part of the
independent contractor's work and negligently exercises that retained control
in a manner that affirmatively contributes to the worker's injury. Second, in Kinsman
v. Unocal Corp. (2005) 37 Cal.4th 659, 36 Cal.Rptr.3d 495, 123 P.3d 931 (Kinsman),
we held that a landowner who hires an independent contractor may be liable if
the landowner knew, or should have known, of a concealed hazard on the property
that the contractor did not know of and could not have reasonably discovered,
and the landowner failed to warn the contractor of the hazard.
(Gonzalez
v. Mathis (2021) 12 Cal.5th 29, 37–38 [cleaned up].) 
4.      ANALYSIS
 
The Pomeroys argue that they hired
an independent contractor, NRG, and therefore are not liable to Plaintiff for
his workplace injuries. They further argue that the Privette exceptions
do not apply. Defendants set forth the following facts:
 
-         
Defendants retained NRG Upgrade to replace the roof of
their residence. (UMF 5.)
-         
NRG Upgrade is a licensed building contractor. (UMF 6.)
-         
Plaintiff was hired to work on Defendants' premises by
a "roofing company" and not by the owners of the residence. (UMF 7.)[2] 
-         
Plaintiff does not know Randall Pomeroy and cannot
recall ever speaking to Randall Pomeroy. (UMF 11.)
-         
Randall Pomeroy has never met Plaintiff and did not
retain any subcontractors to perform the work on his roof. (UMF 12.) 
-         
Plaintiff did not know the owners of the property when
the incident occurred. (UMF 14.) 
-         
Janell Pomeroy never gave Plaintiff any directions.
(UMF 17.) 
-         
Randall Pomeroy and Janell Pomeroy never gave Plaintiff
any instructions as to how to perform work on the roof. (UMF 17, 18.) 
 
Plaintiff sets
forth the following facts:
 
-         
The Pomeroys hired Defendant BNH, Inc. dba NRG Upgrade
(“NRG”) to replace the roof on their house and garage. (PUMF 2.)
-         
NRG would handle the entire project. (PUMF 3.)
-         
Sometime before March 14, 2019, NRG entered into a
subcontractor agreement with Defendant Icon Remodeling, Inc. (“Icon”) to
perform the roofing work on the Premises. (PUMF 5.)
-         
Icon has a Class B General Building Contractor license.
(PUMF 7.)
-         
Icon does not have a Class C-39 Roofing Contractor
license. (PUMF 8.)
-         
Icon hired Mr. Ortiz to perform the roofing work. (PUMF
9.)
-         
Icon’s foreman told Mr. Ortiz that he would receive
$1,500 when the job was finished. (PUMF 10.)
-         
Icon’s foreman told Mr. Ortiz what to do. (PUMF 11.)
-         
Mr. Ortiz only spoke with Icon’s foreman regarding the
job. (PUMF 12.)
-         
Mr. Ortiz and Icon’s foreman were the only people who
worked on the roof. (PUMF 13.)
-         
Icon did not provide Mr. Ortiz with any training as to
safety, fall prevention, or proper practices. (PUMF 14.)
-         
Icon did not require Mr. Ortiz to use any equipment to
prevent a fall. (PUMF 15.)
-         
Mr. Ortiz believed that the roof was dangerous because
it was severely inclined. (PUMF 18.)
-         
Mr. Ortiz told the foreman that someone could fall off
the roof. (PUMF 19.)
 
Defendants have set forth
sufficient evidence to establish that there are no triable issues of fact. Defendants
have established that they hired NRG, a licensed contractor, and did not hire
Plaintiff. They further established that they never gave Plaintiff any
directions or instructions on how to perform work on the roof. The burden
shifts to Plaintiff.
 
Plaintiff’s position is that Icon
hired Plaintiff, Icon was unlicensed, and therefore Plaintiff was an employee
of the Pomeroys. (Opposition at p. 10.) However, Plaintiff fails to
address his own argument that NRG, not the Pomeroys, hired Icon. (PUMF 5.) To
the extent that Icon was unlicensed, under Plaintiff’s argument, Plaintiff
would be an employee of NRG. Plaintiff does not dispute that NRG was licensed,
nor does Plaintiff argue that NRG was an employee of the Pomeroys. Accordingly,
accepting Plaintiff’s argument that there is a triable issue of fact as to
whether Icon was properly licensed, Plaintiff’s exclusive remedy would be a
worker’s compensation claim as to NRG.[3]
 
Plaintiff argues that the Pomeroys “had
an obligation to check NRG’s Contractor’s License. Had they done so, they would
have learned that NRG had no field workers and thus would necessarily
subcontract out the roof replacement on their Premises.” (Opposition at p.12.)
To the extent this argument raises an issue of negligent hiring, such a cause
of action was not pled in the complaint and, more significantly, would be
barred under the Privette and its progeny. (See Camargo, supra,
25 Cal.4th at 1244.) To the extent Plaintiff is arguing that the Pomeroys’
failure to learn that NRG had no field workers somehow makes the Pomeroys the
employer of NRG or Icon, Plaintiff cites no authority for such a proposition.
Plaintiff does not dispute that NRG is an independent contractor of the
Pomeroys and, in any event, Plaintiff provides no factual basis for the
Pomeroys to know that NRG would hire an unlicensed subcontractor and no legal basis
to require the Pomeroys to check the licensing status of any subcontractor.
 
Plaintiff further argues that there
are triable issues of fact regarding the Hooker exception. In support of
this argument, Plaintiff argues that the Pomeroys knew that they hired a
contractor for roof repairs, and that they “had a duty to check NRG’s
Contactor’s License.” (Opposition at p. 15.) Further,
Plaintiff argues “it is undisputed that the Pomeroys permitted Mr. Ortiz onto
their property and onto the roof to perform roofing work without any means of
fall protection or a fall arrest system.” (Opposition at p. 16.) None of
these purported facts address whether the Pomeroys retained
control over any part of the independent contractor's work or whether they
negligently exercised that retained control in a manner that affirmatively
contributes to the worker's injury. Indeed, all of Plaintiff’s facts show that
Icon controlled Plaintiff’s work.
 
Finally,
Plaintiff argues that there are triable issues of fact regarding the Kinsman
exception. Plaintiff argues that the Pomeroys “knew, or should have known, that
the roof was particularly dangerous due to the severe incline. The Pomeroys
owned the Premises for nearly 9 years. Moreover, Mr. Ortiz informed Icon’s
foreman that the roof was dangerous (because it was severely inclined) and that
someone could fall off the roof. Roofing work necessarily presents a special
risk of harm that the Pomeroys knew, or should have known, and which requires
specific safety measures in order to safeguard from such hazards.” (Opposition
at p. 15.) According to Plaintiff’s own evidence, the hazard was not concealed,
nor was it something that the landowner knew or should have known, that the
contractor did not know of and could not have reasonably discovered.
 
Accordingly,
viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to Plaintiff, including all
reasonable inferences, the Court finds there are no triable issues of fact and
grants summary judgment in favor of Defendants.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants Randall Pomeroy and Janell
Pomeroy’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. Defendants shall file a
proposed judgment within 10 days.
 
            Defendants
shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.
 
 


