 Case Number:  21STCV08362    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  26, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV08362




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Sanctions   




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Catherine Rodriguez 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 17, 2023, the Court denied Plaintiff Catherine Rodriguez’s
(Plaintiff) motion to deem admitted against Defendant Office Depot, finding
that complaint responses were served before the hearing date. The Court
declined to award sanctions for Plaintiff because Office Depot argued they had
not received the discovery requests, and thus, Plaintiff failed to show that
the failure to respond was willful. (Minute Order Dated 10/17/23.) 
 
Plaintiff requested a continuance to file a reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
Plaintiff does not set forth evidence sufficient to establish that
counsel’s declaration under penalty of perjury is not truthful. At the hearing
on this motion, counsel for defendant shall confirm that counsel was unaware of
the Requests for Admissions until July 24, 2023.[1] The
remainder of Plaintiff’s arguments regarding Defendant’s failure to provide
responses after the July 24, 2023 letter are unavailing, given Plaintiff’s
response that a motion was forthcoming.
 
 


