 Case Number:  20STCV41392    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  26, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV41392




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Physical Examination




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Christopher Dena and Maria Dena




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On October 28, 2023, Plaintiff Jasmin
Kendall (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendants Christopher Dena,
Maria Dena, and Does 1 to 50 for injuries resulting from a motor vehicle
accident. 
 
            Defendants
Christopher Dena and Maria Dena (Defendants) now move to compel Plaintiff’s
appearance at a physical examination. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for
personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical examination of the
plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted,
or intrusive. (2) The examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of
the residence of the examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a).)¿¿ 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2032.250 provides that, when a plaintiff fails to respond to a demand, or
refuses to submit to the physical examination, the defendant may move for an
order compelling a response to the demand and compelling compliance with the
request for an exam. The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration.
 
The court shall impose a monetary
sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel compliance with a demand for a physical examination,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.250 (b).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Irene Kelian states that after Plaintiff failed to
appear at the first physical examination, she emailed Plaintiff’s counsel to
reschedule. (Kelian Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. D.) No response was received. Defendants
also emailed Plaintiff before scheduling the second physical examination.
However, it appears Plaintiff did not respond. Therefore, it appears Defendants
have attempted to resolve the issue reasonably. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff alleges injuries to her head, neck, back, and foot due to a
motor vehicle accident. Defendants served a first Demand for Plaintiff’s
Physical Examination set for July 19, 2023 with Brian Grossman, M.D., an
orthopedic surgeon. (Kelian Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) Plaintiff did not appear for
the examination and did not respond to a confirmation email that was sent eight
days before. (Id. ¶ 4-6.) Defendants incurred a $775.00 fee with Dr. Grossman’s
office because Plaintiff failed to show. (Id. ¶ 7, Exh. C.) Defendants
attempted to reschedule an examination date with Plaintiff but Plaintiff was
unresponsive. Defendants then served a second demand for Physical Examination
set for September 13, 2023. (Id. ¶ 11, Exh. F.) Plaintiff again did not appear
for the examination, resulting in a $775.00 “no show” fee. (Id. ¶ 12, 13, Exh.
G.) Based on the above, the Court grants the motion to compel Plaintiff’s first
physical examination. 
 
Defendants seek $2,211.65 in monetary sanctions. This represents two
hours of attorney time at an hourly rate of $300, the fees incurred with Dr.
Grossman, and the $61.65 filing fee for this motion. In light of the nature of
the motion and because it is unopposed, the Court awards monetary sanctions in
the reduced amount of $1,911.65 (1 hour of attorney time, the fees incurred
with Dr. Grossman, and filing fee). 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendants
Christopher Dena and Maria Dena’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s independent physical
examination is GRANTED.  
 
The Court orders Plaintiff Jasmin Kendall to appear for a physical examination
with Dr. Brian Grossman within 30 days of notice of the Court’s orders, unless
Defendants stipulate otherwise. 
 
Plaintiff Jasmin Kendall and her counsel of record, jointly and
severally, are ordered to pay $1,911.65 in monetary sanctions to counsel for
Defendants within 30 days. 
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such. 