 Case Number:  21STCV42295    Hearing Date:   October 26, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  26, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV42295




MOTIONS:  


Requests
  for Admission, Set One Deemed Admitted  




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Mary Ann Cuevas 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Marla Barraza Beltran



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff Mary Ann Cuevas (Plaintiff)
moves to have Request for Admissions, Set One Deemed Admitted. Plaintiff asserts
that on December 6, 2022, she served Request for Admissions, Set One on
Defendant Marla Barraza Beltran (Defendant). An extension to respond was
granted until February 13, 2023. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Where
there has been no timely response to a request for admission under Code of
Civil Procedure section 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction. 
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)  The party who failed to
respond waives any objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party
relief from the waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently
served a substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to
respond was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)  The court “shall”
grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that
the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served,
before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for
admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code
of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
 
Where
a party fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory
that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a
timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant asserts that verified
responses were served on September 19, 2023. (Rohr Decl. ¶ 10, Exh. A.) Defendant’s
counsel represents that she took over Defendant’s case on July 7, 2023 and was
not informed by former counsel that discovery had been served. (Rohr Decl. ¶
4–5.) By that time, the motion to deem admitted was already filed. Once
Defendant’s counsel learned of the request for admissions, she promptly served
responses. Because responses were served before the hearing, the motion to deem
admitted is denied as moot. 
 
            Plaintiff requests sanctions against
Defendant and her counsel of record for $811.65. This amount represents an
hourly rate of $250 for three hours and the $61.65 filing fee. Given the type
of motion and the fact counsel can appear remotely at the hearing, the Court
finds this amount is excessive and reduces it to $561.65 (two hours of attorney
time and the filing fee).
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to have Request for Admissions, Set
One Deemed Admitted, is denied as moot.
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against
Defendant and her counsel of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced
amount of $561.65. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for
Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of this order.
 
Plaintiff
to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 