 Case Number:  23STCV08596    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling   Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47     HEARING DATE:     October 30, 2024                   TRIAL  DATE: June 10, 2025                                                             CASE:                         Martin Melendez-Murillo et al. v. AKG  Trading (USA), Inc., et al.   CASE NO.:                 23STCV08596               MOTION  FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE    MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs Martin Melendez-Murillo and Rufina Barajas   RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendants Home  Depot, USA, Inc., et al. (24 Defendants)   CASE  HISTORY: ·          04/18/23: Complaint filed. ·          12/05/23: Cross-Complaint filed by Caesarstone  USA, Inc. ·          12/12/23: Cross-Complaint filed by Global Stone  Trading, Inc. ·          12/28/23: Cross-Complaint filed by Lowe’s Home  Centers, LLC ·          04/02/24: Cross-Complaint filed by Arizona Tile,  LLC. ·          05/14/24: First Amended Complaint filed. ·          06/27/24: Cross-Complaint filed by WilsonArt LLC ·          07/03/24: Cross-Complaint filed by Marbolis,  Inc. ·          08/12/24: Cross-Complaint filed by Caesarstone  Ltd.   STATEMENT  OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:                          This is a toxic tort action alleging that Plaintiff Melendez-Murillo  developed silicosis and consequential injuries by breathing in dust from  Defendants’ stone products generated by his work as a fabricator and polisher  of stone countertops.   Plaintiffs move for trial  preference pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 36 subdivisions (d) and  (e).   TENTATIVE RULING:   Plaintiffs move for trial  preference pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 36 subdivisions (d) and  (e). Subdivision (d) of section 36 of  the Code of Civil Procedure states that the Court, in its discretion, may grant  a motion for preference “that is accompanied by clear and convincing medical  documentation that concludes that one of the parties suffers from an illness or  condition raising substantial medical doubt of survival of that party beyond  six months, and that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be  served by granting the preference.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 36(d).) If the motion is  granted, the Court “shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days from  that date.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 36(f).)   Plaintiff Martin Melendez-Murillo  states he was diagnosed with silicosis and progressive massive fibrosis in  December 2022. (Declaration of Martin Melendez-Murillo ISO Mot. ¶1.) Plaintiff’s  treating physician, Dr. Jane Fazio, M.D., indicates she last examined Plaintiff  on March 20, 2024, and, at that time, his CT scans and pulmonary function tests  showed progression of his disease. (Declaration of Jane Fazio ISO Mot. ¶ 3.)  Dr. Fazio states there is no known cure for Plaintiff’s condition, and the  damage to his lungs is not reversible. (Id. ¶ 4.) Dr. Fazio further  states that it is reasonably medically likely that Plaintiff will die within  six months absent a lung transplant, but such a procedure is inherently risky,  and there is no way of knowing if or when donor organs will become available. (Id.  ¶ 5.) Dr. Fazio contends that, based on her knowledge of Plaintiff’s condition  and her knowledge of typical outcomes for this type of illness, there is a  substantial medical doubt of Plaintiff’s survival beyond six months. (Id.  ¶ 9.)   Dr. Fazio’s declaration was not  accompanied by any medical documentation. Moreover, while the Declaration of  David R. Donadio in support of the motion purported to attach certain medical  records for the Court’s review, it does not appear that those materials were  ever presented to the Court. (See Declaration of David R. Donadio ISO Mot.) In  light of the “clear and convincing” standard for trial preference under Code of  Civil Procedure section 36(d), the Court considers those materials necessary,  especially to the extent those records informed Dr. Fazio’s testimony. The  Court therefore ordered Plaintiffs to lodge the medical documentation  referenced in that Declaration, and directed the parties to meet and confer  regarding the course of discovery and pre-trial motions if preference were  granted and present a joint statement describing the results of those  discussions.    Plaintiffs submitted the requested  medical documentation with the Declaration of Jason M. Rose, filed with the  Court on October 4, 2024. These records include office visits and emergency  room records for Plaintiff Melendez-Murillo from mid-August through late  September 2024, as well as additional records from March 20 through May 30,  2024. (Declaration of Jason M. Rose ISO Mot. ¶¶ 2-6.) Although these records describe  the development of Plaintiff’s condition since 2022 (see, e.g., Exh. A. pp.1-2  [History of Present Illness]), they do not, as Defendant C&C North America  states in its supplemental opposition, tend to support the claim made by Dr.  Fazio that Plaintiff’s survival beyond six months is in serious doubt. Several  of these records explicitly comment on the stability of Plaintiff’s respiratory  condition. For example, the records from a September 4, 2024 emergency room  visit for a separate medical issue indicate that Plaintiff’s condition was  “stable from a respiratory standpoint.” (Rose Decl. Exh. B. p.3.) Crucially,  the records from an August 29, 2024 visit to the UCLA Lung Transplant Program  notes “concerns at this time regarding the patient’s candidacy for lung  transplantation” including that Plaintiff “[w]arrants evaluation but may be too  well for listing at this time.” (Rose Decl. Exh. C. p.6.) This evidence  substantially undercuts Dr. Fazio’s credibility regarding the severity of  Plaintiff Melendez-Murillo’s condition and the probability of his survival.  Given the heightened “clear and convincing” standard necessary to demonstrate  entitlement to preference under Code of Civil Procedure section 36(d), the Court  is not persuaded that Plaintiffs have carried their burden under this  subdivision.    Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Motion for  Trial Preference is DENIED.                Moving  Parties to give notice.    IT IS SO ORDERED.   Dated:  October 30,  2024                                ___________________________________                                                                                     Theresa  M. Traber                                                                                     Judge  of the Superior Court                Any party may submit on the  tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day  before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It  should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still  conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you  have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you  should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an  order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.  