 Case Number:  23STCV18736    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     October 30, 2024                   TRIAL
DATE: May 27, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Moayed Harb v. Ford Motor Company, et
al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV18736            
 
MOTION
FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Ford Motor Company
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Moayed
Harb
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a lemon law action filed on August 8, 2023. Plaintiff purchased a
2019 Ford F150 equipped with a 10R80 transmission system which he alleges has a
series of known defects causing hesitation, shuddering, and shifting issues. 
 
Defendant Ford Motor Company moves
for judgment on the pleadings as to the first four causes of action under the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act and the seventh cause of action under the
Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act.
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendant
Ford Motor Company’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED without
leave to amend as to the first four causes of action and otherwise DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendant Ford Motor Company moves
for judgment on the pleadings as to the first four causes of action under the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act and the seventh cause of action under the
Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act.
 
Legal Standard
 
A motion for judgment on the
pleadings is the functional equivalent to a general demurrer.  (Lance Camper Mfg. Corp. v. Republic
Indemnity Co. of Am. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 194, 198).  Like demurrers, motions for judgment on the
pleadings challenge the legal sufficiency of the allegations, not their
veracity.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994). Any defects must either appear on the
face of the pleading, or else be taken by judicial notice.  (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th
316, 321-22).  The parties’ ability to
prove their respective claims is of no concern. 
(Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995,
99.)  Though the Court must accept the
allegations of the complaint and answer as true (Gerawan Farming, Inc. v.
Lyons (2000) 24 Cal.4th 468, 515), it will not do so for “conclusions of
law or fact, opinions, speculation, or allegations contrary to law or
[judicially noticed] facts…” (Stevenson Real Estate Servs., Inc. v. CB
Richard Ellis Real Estate Servs., Inc. (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1215,
1219-20).
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a motion for judgment
on the pleadings, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who has filed the pleading subject to the motion for
judgment on the pleadings and file a declaration detailing their meet and
confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 439(a).) However, an insufficient
meet and confer process is not grounds to grant or deny a motion for
judgment on the pleadings. (Code Civ. Proc., § 439(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Colin P. Cronin
in support of the motion states that the parties met and conferred via online
Teams conference on September 23, 2024 regarding the issues raised in this
motion. (Declaration of Colin P. Cronin ISO Mot. ¶ 8; see also Exh. 4.) The
parties were not able to reach a resolution and agreed that the Court’s
determination was necessary. (Id.) Defendant has therefore satisfied its
statutory meet and confer obligations.
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendant
requests that the Court take judicial notice of (1) Plaintiff’s responses to Defendant’s
Requests for Admission Nos. 16, 17, and 24; and (2) a Certificate of Approval
for BBB National Programs, Inc’s BBB Auto Line to operate as a state-certified
arbitration program, issued by the California Department of Consumer Affairs’
Arbitration Certification Program.
 
            Defendant’s
Request No. 1 is GRANTED as a set of judicial admissions. (Barsegian v.
Kessler & Kessler (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 446, 451-52 [responses to
requests for admission constitute judicial admissions]; Alameda County Waste
Management Auth. V. Waste Connections US, Inc. (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 1162,
1174-75 [judicial admissions subject to judicial notice].) 
 
            Defendant’s
Request No. 2 is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(c) (official
acts).
 
//
First Cause of Action: Violation of Civil Code section
1793.2(d)
 
            Defendant
moves for judgment on the pleadings as to the first cause of action on the
grounds that Plaintiff has admitted that the subject vehicle was purchased
outside of California and is therefore not subject to the refund-or-replace
provision of section 1793.2(d) of the Civil Code. 
 
            In Cummins
v. Superior Court, the California Supreme Court expressly held that the
entire Song-Beverly Act, with particular reference to section 1793.2(d) only
applies to goods sold in the State of California. (Cummins, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2005) 36 Cal.4th 478, 493-94.) Defendant states that Plaintiff
admitted, in Request for Admission No. 16, that the vehicle was purchased at
Camelback Ford Lincoln, 1330 E. Camelback Road, Phoenix AZ 85014. (Cronin Decl.
Exh. 2 No. 16.) As admissions in response to requests for admissions are
judicial admissions that are properly the subject of judicial notice, Defendant
may rely on this admission in support of the motion.
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff asserts that Cummins does not address the question
of where a vehicle is purchased as a matter of law. This contention is
irrelevant.  Plaintiff has admitted that
the vehicle was purchased in Arizona, and so the issue is not in dispute.
Second, Plaintiff argues that, under Civil Code section 1795.8, the
Song-Beverly Act applies to members of the armed forces even if the vehicle is
not purchased in California. (See Civ. Code § 1795.8.) This contention is also
irrelevant because Plaintiff has not alleged that he is a member of the armed
forces subject to this exception, and arguments of counsel in opposition that
this “may or may not be the case here” (opposition p.3:7-8) does not cure the
deficiency identified in the pleadings.
 
            In light of
Plaintiff’s judicial admission that the vehicle was not purchased in
California, the Court finds that Defendant is entitled to judgment on the
pleadings as to the first cause of action. 
 
Second Cause of Action: Violation of Civil Code section
1793.2(b)
 
            Defendant
moves for judgment on the pleadings as to the second cause of action for the
same reasons stated with respect to the first cause of action above. As the
parties agree that these claims survive or fail together, the Court finds that
Defendant is entitled to judgment on the pleadings as to the second cause of
action.
 
Third Cause of Action: Violation of Civil Code section
1793.2(A)(3)
 
            Defendant
moves for judgment on the pleadings as to the third cause of action for the
same reasons stated with respect to the first cause of action above. As the
parties agree that these claims survive or fail together, the Court finds that
Defendant is entitled to judgment on the pleadings as to the third cause of
action.
 
//
 
Fourth Cause of Action: Implied Warranty of
Merchantability
 
            Defendant
moves for judgment on the pleadings as to the fourth cause of action for the
same reasons stated with respect to the first cause of action above. As the
parties agree that these claims survive or fail together, the Court finds that
Defendant is entitled to judgment on the pleadings as to the fourth cause of
action.
 
Seventh Cause of Action: Violation of Magnuson Moss Warranty-Federal
Trade Commission Improvements Act
 
            Defendant
moves for judgment on the pleadings as to the seventh cause of action on the
grounds that Plaintiff did not engage in the informal dispute settlement
procedure mandated under the Magnuson Moss Act before bringing this claim.
 
            Under the
Magnuson Moss Act, a warrantor may establish an informal dispute settlement
procedure and require in a written warranty that the consumer resort to that
procedure before pursuing a legal remedy under the Magnuson Moss Act respecting
the warranty. (15 U.S.C. § 2310(a)(3).) Provided the informal dispute
settlement procedure in the warranty meets the requirements promulgated by the
Federal Trade Commission, the consumer may not commence a civil action under
the Magnuson Moss Act without first pursuing the informal dispute settlement
procedure. (Id.) The Federal Trade Commission has codified these
requirements in Title 16 of the Code of Federal Regulations Part 703. Section
703.2 imposes duties on the warrantor regarding the manner and contents of the
warrantor’s disclosure of the informal dispute settlement mechanism. (16 C.F.R
§ 703.2.) Defendant claims that the disclosure of the dispute resolution
procedure, contained at pages 5 through 8 of the Warranty Guide attached to the
Complaint, satisfy these notification requirements. (See Complaint Exh. A. pp.
5-8.) However, section 703.2 subdivision (a) states that a warrantor “shall not
incorporate into the terms of a written warranty a Mechanism that fails to
comply with the requirements contained in §§ 703.3 through 703.8 of this part.”
(16 C.F.R. § 703.2(a).) Sections 703.3 through 703.8 impose minimum
requirements on dispute resolution mechanisms including, inter alia,
qualification of members (§ 703.4), day-to-day operations (§ 703.5), and
recordkeeping (§ 703.6). Defendant makes no effort to demonstrate through
judicially noticeable material that the dispute resolution mechanism identified
in the Warranty Guide complies with these regulatory requirements. As
compliance with the regulatory standards is a predicate to the informal dispute
settlement requirement, the failure to address this element is fatal to
Defendant’s argument.
 
            Defendant
is therefore not entitled to judgment on the pleadings as to the seventh cause
of action.
 
Leave to Amend
 
When a demurrer is sustained, the
Court determines whether there is a reasonable possibility that the defect can
be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318).  When a plaintiff “has pleaded the general set of facts upon
which his cause of action is based,” the court should give the plaintiff an
opportunity to amend his complaint, since plaintiff should not “be deprived of his
right to maintain his action on the ground that his pleadings were defective
for lack of particulars.” (Reed v. Norman (1957) 152 Cal.App.2d 892,
900.) Accordingly, California law imposes the burden on the plaintiffs to
demonstrate the manner in which they can amend their pleadings to state their
claims against a defendant.  (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18
Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of leave to amend constitutes an abuse of discretion
unless the complaint shows on its face it is incapable of amendment. 
[Citation.]  Liberality in permitting amendment is the rule, if a fair
opportunity to correct any defect has not been given." (Angie M. v.
Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
 
            Here,
Plaintiff has not demonstrated how the Complaint might be amended to cure the
deficiencies identified in this motion. Moreover, as Defendant has prevailed on
the first four causes of action on the grounds that Plaintiff conclusively
admitted facts establishing that the Song Beverly Act does not apply to the
vehicle, the Court concludes that amendment of the first four causes of action
would be futile. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendant Ford Motor Company’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED without
leave to amend as to the first four causes of action and otherwise DENIED. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  October 30,
2024                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 