  Case Number:  19STCV41520    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to Amend
Judgment to Add Alter Ego Defendant as Judgment Debtor, and Identify Alter Ego
 
Moving Party: Judgment
Creditor Westlake Village Property, L.P.
Resp. Party:    Judgment Debtors Dr. Leevil, LLC and D-Day
Capital, LLC   
 
 
The Motion is DENIED
without prejudice. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
        On February 15,
2019, Plaintiff filed its Complaint against Defendants Dr. Leevil, LLC and
D-Day Capital, LLC on causes of action for breach of written contract,
accounting, and money had and received. 
 
        On November 19,
2019, this case was transferred from the Superior Court of California, County
of Ventura to the Superior Court of California, County of Los Angeles. 
 
        On September
29, 2021, pursuant to an oral request made by Plaintiff, the Court dismissed
with prejudice Plaintiff’s Complaint. The Court retained jurisdiction to make
orders to enforce any and all terms of the settlement, including judgment,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6. 
 
        On January 2,
2023, the Court entered Judgment in this matter in favor of Plaintiff (now
“Judgment Creditor”) and against Defendants (now “Judgment Debtors”). 
 
        On September 8,
2023, Judgment Creditor filed its Motion to Amend Judgment to Add Alter Ego
Defendant as Judgment Debtor, and Identify Alter Ego (“Motion”). In support of
its Motion, Judgment Creditor concurrently filed: (1) Request for Judicial
Notice; (2) Declaration of Matthew W. Rosene; and (3) Declaration of Teri. T.
Pham. 
 
        On September
18, 2023, the Court continued the hearing on the Motion but ordered the
briefing schedule to coincide with the original hearing date. 
 
        On September
21, 2023, Judgment Debtors filed separate Oppositions to the Motion. In support
of their Oppositions, they filed the following items together: (1) Objections
to the Request for Judicial Notice; and (2) Objections to the Declaration of
Teri T. Pham.  
 
        On October 5,
2023, Judgment Debtors filed their Joint Objection to Any Untimely Reply Brief
and Request to Strike Any Untimely Reply Brief (“Request to Strike Untimely
Reply”).
 
        On October 6,
2023, Judgment Creditor filed its Combined Reply. Judgment Creditor
concurrently filed: (1) Responses to Opposition to Request for Judicial Notice;
(2) Evidentiary Objections to the Declaration of Ronald Richards; and (3)
Responses to Objections to the Declaration of Teri T. Pham. 
 
        On October 9,
2023, Specially-Appearing Non-Party Dr. Leevil SPE LLC filed its Objection to
Motion Based On Lack of Jurisdiction (“Specially-Appearing Non-Party’s
Objection”). 
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Judgment Debtors’ Request to Strike Untimely
Reply
 
        On September
18, 2023, the Court continued the hearing on the Motion but ordered the
briefing schedule to coincide with the original hearing date. Thus, the filings
made by Judgment Creditor and Specially-Appearing Non-Party were late. 
 
However, given that no party was
actually prejudiced by these late filings, the DENIES Judgment Debtors’ Request
to Strike Untimely Reply and considers these late filings. 
 
II.      
Evidentiary Objections
 
Judgment Debtors filed one objection to the Judgment Creditor’s
Declaration of Teri T. Pham. The following is the Court’s ruling on this
objection. 
 




Objection


 


 




1


 


OVERRULED




 
        Judgment Debtors also filed objections
to Judgment Creditor’s Request for Judicial Notice. The following are the
Court’s rulings on these objections. 
 




Objection


 


 




1


 


OVERRULED




2


 


OVERRULED




3


 


OVERRULED




 
        Finally, Judgment Creditor filed
objections to the Declaration of Ronald Richards. The following are the Court’s
rulings on these objections. 
 




Objection


 


 




1


 


OVERRULED




2


 


OVERRULED




3


 


OVERRULED




4


 


OVERRULED




5


 


OVERRULED




6


 


OVERRULED




7


 


OVERRULED




8


 


OVERRULED




9


 


OVERRULED




10


 


OVERRULED




11


 


OVERRULED




12


 


OVERRULED




 
III.    
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Judgment Creditor requests that the Court take judicial notice of three
items: 
 
(1)       a grant deed
recorded with the Ventura County Clerk and Recorder;
 
(2)       an assignment of
deed of trust recorded with the Ventura County Clerk and Recorder; and 
 
(3)       a trial brief filed
in the earlier case of Mid-Wilshire Property, L.P., et al. v. Dr. Leevil,
LLC, et al., Case No. 30-2015-00801555 in the Superior Court of California,
County of Orange.
 
The Court GRANTS judicial notice to the first two items. 
 
The Court DENIES as irrelevant judicial notice to
the third item. “Although a court may judicially notice a variety of matters
(Evid. Code, § 450 et seq.), only relevant material may be noticed.” (Am.
Cemwood Corp. v. Am. Home Assurance Co. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 431, 441, fn.
7, quotation omitted, italics in original.)
 
 
IV.      Legal Standard
 
“When jurisdiction is,
by the Constitution or this Code, or by any other statute, conferred on a Court
or judicial officer, all the means necessary to carry it into effect are also
given; and in the exercise of this jurisdiction, if the course of proceeding be
not specifically pointed out by this Code or the statute, any suitable process
or mode of proceeding may be adopted which may appear most conformable to the
spirit of this Code.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 187.)
 
“That a court may at any time amend
its judgment so that the latter will properly designate the real defendants is
not open to question. . . . Where there is such a unity of interest and ownership that the
separateness of the corporations has ceased and the facts are such that an
adherence to the fiction of separate existence of the corporation would under
the particular circumstances sanction a fraud or promote an injustice, separate
identity will be disregarded. Thus it has been held that where a corporation was but the
instrumentality through which an individual for convenience transacted his
business, all of the authorities, not only equity but the law itself, would
hold such a corporation bound as the owner of the corporation might be bound,
or conversely, hold the owner bound by acts which bound his corporation.” (Mirabito v. San Francisco Dairy Co. (1935) 8 Cal.App.2d 54, 57, 59, citations omitted.)

 
“We hold that Code of Civil Procedure section 187 authorizes a trial
court to amend a judgment to add a judgment debtor who is found to be an alter
ego of a corporate defendant. The alter ego doctrine does not require proof of
fraud, and can be satisfied by evidence that adherence to the fiction of the
separate existence of the corporation would promote injustice. Finally, a
plaintiff's failure to allege the alter ego doctrine in the underlying lawsuit
does not preclude a motion to amend the judgment.” (Misik v. D’Arco (2011)
197 Cal.App.4th 1065, 1069.)
 
“To prevail in a motion to add judgment debtors, [the moving
party] must show that (1) the parties to be added as judgment debtors had
control of the underlying litigation and were virtually represented in that
proceeding; (2) there is such a unity of interest and ownership that the
separate personalities of the entity and the owners no longer exist; and (3) an
inequitable result will follow if the acts are treated as those of the entity
alone.” (Triya Hospitality Mgmt., LLC v. WSI (II)—HWP, LLC (2020) 57
Cal.App.5th 636, 641, citations omitted.)
 
“The alter ego doctrine was extended
to LLCs by Corporations Code section 17703.04, subdivision (b) [‘A member
of a limited liability company shall be subject to liability under the common
law governing alter ego liability alter ego liability’].” (Blizzard Energy,
Inc. v. Schaefers (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 832, 846.)
 
“The greatest liberality is to be
encouraged in the allowance of such amendments in order to see that justice is
done.” (Greenspan v. LADT LLC (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 486, 508, quotation
and internal quotation marks omitted.)
 
        However,
“when
plaintiffs ‘summarily add’
individuals to a previously entered default judgment against a corporation,
those individuals are denied due process.” (Lopez v. Escamilla (2022) 79
Cal.App.5th 646, 652, quoting Motores de Mexicali, S. A. v. Super. Ct. of
Los Angeles County (1958) 51 Cal.2d 172, 176.)
 
V.        
Discussion
 
A.      The Parties’ Arguments
 
Judgment
Creditor moves the Court to amend the Judgment to: (1) add Dr. Leevil SPE, LLC
as a judgment debtor; and (2) to identify Judgment Debtor D-Day Capital, LLC as
an alter ego of Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC. (Motion, p. 13:22–24.)
 
Judgment
Creditor argues: (1) that the Court has the authority to grant the requested
relief; (2) that the Judgment should be amended to add Dr. Leevil SPE, LLC as a
judgment debtor because this entity is an alter ego of Judgment Debtors and
controlled the litigation for them; and (3) that Judgment Debtors are alter
egos of each other. (Motion, pp. 7:8–9, 8:9–10, 12:16.)
 
        Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC opposes
the Motion, arguing: (1) that the notice of the Motion is defective as to
Judgment Debtor D-Day Capital, LLC; (2) that the express terms of the
settlement cap Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC’s liability; (3) that a judgment
entered pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6 severely limits the
Court’s role going forward to modify settlement agreement liability; (4) that
Judgment Debtors have a valid reason to force collection efforts until the
March 2024 trial is resolved; and (5) that the alleged proposed judgment debtor
(Dr. Leevil SPE, LLC) has not been served and this Motion should be denied due
to lack of jurisdiction. (Dr. Leevil, LLC’s Opposition, pp. 7:3, 8:16–17,
10:21–23, 11:18–19, 13:14–17.)
 
        Judgment Debtor D-Day Capital, LLC’s
also opposes the Motion, and it does not make any arguments different from
those made by Judgment Debtor Dr. Leevil, LLC. (D-Day Capital, LLC’s
Opposition, pp. 6:24, 8:13–14, 10:2–3, 10:26–27.)
 
        Judgment Creditor reiterates its
arguments in its Reply. 
 
        Specially-Appearing Non-Party opposes
the Motion, arguing: (1) that jurisdiction of the Court can be challenged by
way of a special appearance; (2) that the Court does not have jurisdiction over
Specially-Appearing Non-Party because it was never served with the Motion; and
(3) that methods of service are to be strictly construed and actual notice is
not a substitute for proper service. (Specially-Appearing Non-Party’s
Objection, pp. 3:19–20, 4:8–9, 6:3–4, 7:15–16.)
 
B.      Discussion 
 
Prior
to reaching the substantive questions regarding alter ego, the Court first
considers Judgment Debtors’ ancillary arguments. 
 
        First, the Motion is not defective as to
Judgment Debtor D-Day Capital, LLC. Among other things, the Motion requests
that the Court find that Judgment Debtors are alter egos of each other, not
that D-Day Capital, LLC should now be a judgment debtor. 
 
        Second, the respective settlements caps
of Judgment Debtors are irrelevant as to whether the Court should amend the
Judgment to include Dr. Leevil SPE LLC as a judgment debtor. Similarly, the
settlement caps will be irrelevant if Judgment Debtors are found to be alter
egos of each other. 
 
        Third, there is no authority for the
proposition that Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6 limits the Court’s
authority to amend a judgment to add a judgment debtor who is an alter ego of
an existing judgment debtor. The Court already enforced the settlement by
entering Judgment pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6. (Minute
Order dated September 29, 2021, p. 1; Minute Order dated December 5, 2022, pp.
4–6.) Now that Judgment has been entered, the Court is using the “suitable
process or mode of proceeding” to further enforce the settlement. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 187.) Contrary to Judgment Debtors’ arguments, the Court is not
changing the Parties’ settlement; rather, “the court is amending the judgment
to add the real judgment debtor.” (Triyar Hospitality Mgmt., supra,
57 Cal.App.5th at p. 641, citing Dow Jones Co. v. Avenel (1984) 151
Cal.App.3d 144, 149.) 
 
        Fourth, anything that is happening in an
unrelated case is irrelevant to the question at hand, which is whether Dr.
Leevil SPE, LLC is an alter ego of Judgment Debtors that should be added as a
judgment debtor to the Judgment in this case. 
 
        Finally, Judgment Debtors’ last argument
concerns due process for Dr. Leevil SPE LLC, which has not been served with the
Motion. For the reasons discussed below, the Court agrees with Judgment Debtors
on this point. 
 
        “A person may not be deprived of
life, liberty, or property without due process of law or denied equal
protection of the laws . . . .” (Cal. Const., art. I, § 7, subd. (a).)
 
        “No person shall be . . . deprived of
life, liberty, or property, without due process of law . . . .” (U.S. Const.,
5th Amend.)
 
        “No State shall make or enforce any law
which shall abridge the privileges or immunities of citizens of the United
States; nor shall any State deprive any person of life, liberty, or property,
without due process of law; nor deny to any person within its jurisdiction the
equal protection of the laws.” (U.S. Const., 14th Amend.)
 
        “Except as otherwise provided by
statute, a summons shall be served on a person . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., §
413.10.) 
 
The
manners of service of summons are listed in statute. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
415.10, et seq.) Similarly, the requirements for proof of service are listed in
statute. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 417.10, et seq.) Corporations and limited
liability companies are included. (Ibid.)
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 187 allows the Court to use “all the means necessary
to carry [the jurisdiction of the Court] into effect” and to use “any suitable
process or mode of proceeding . . . which may appear most conformable to the
spirit of this Code.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 187.) It is neither necessary nor in
the spirit of the Code of Civil Procedure to deny a non-party due process when
making a legal determination that involves their property. Thus, Code of Civil
Procedure section 187 does not permit the Court to amend judgment to add an
alleged alter ego of existing judgment debtors without proof of service of the
motion to amend on the alleged alter ego. 
 
The
Court has not yet decided whether Dr. Leevil SPE LLC is an alter ego of
Judgment Debtors. Further, Dr. Leevil SPE LLC did not itself participate in any
earlier point of the litigation, and Dr. Leevil SPE LLC has not been served in
this matter. It would be a violation of Dr. Leevil SPE LLC’s due process under
both the California Constitution and the United States Constitution to reach
the merits of the Motion without service on Dr. Leevil SPE LLC. 
 
        The Court therefore need not reach the
merits of whether Dr. Leevil SPE LLC is an alter ego of Judgment Debtors that
should be added to the Judgment (i.e., by implementing the test in Triya Hospitality Management, LLC v. WSI (II)—HWP, LLC (2020) 57
Cal.App.5th 636, 641), or whether Judgment Debtors are alter egos of each
other. 
 
 
VI.     
Conclusion
 
The Motion is DENIED
without prejudice. 
 