  Case Number:  22STCV37953    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Wednesday, September 4, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   22STCV37953
CASE NAME:                        Jacob Shaw v. Honda
Performance Development, Inc., et al.
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Jacob Shaw 
OPPOSING PARTY:             Defendant Honda Performance
Development, Inc.
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion to Strike Fifth
Amended Complaint
OPPOSITION:                        01  August 2024
SUR-REPLY                           27
August 2024
 
REPLY:                                  29
August 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Plaintiff’s request for
further responses to RPD Nos. 54, 55, and 56 is denied. Plaintiff to give
notice. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On December 5,
2022, Jacob Shaw (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Honda Performance
Development, Inc.; Experis US, Inc.; Experis US, LLC; Manpower Group US, Inc.
(collectively “Defendants”) and Does 1 to 50.  
 
On May 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint. On
July 7, 2023, the parties stipulated to allow Plaintiff to file the Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”).  On October 4, 2023, the court granted Plaintiff’s
Motion for Leave to file a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”). 
 
The TAC alleges fifteen causes of action: (1) disability discrimination, (2)
failure to engage in the interactive process, (3) failure to accommodate
disability, (4) retaliation in violation of Gov. Code § 12940(m)(2), (5)
violation of the California Family Rights Act, (6) failure to prevent discrimination
and harassment, (7) violation of Labor Code section 233 and 234, (8)
wrongful termination in violation of public policy; (9) failure to pay overtime
wages; (10) failure to provide meal periods, (11) failure to authorize and
permit rest periods, (12) failure to pay all wages due upon separation, (13)
failure to furnish accurate itemized wage statements, (14) failure to maintain
required records, and (15) unfair and unlawful business practices.  
On November 15, 2023,
the Court sustained Honda’s demurrer to the first to seventh and ninth through
fifteenth cause of action was sustained with leave to amend. 
 
On December 15, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the Fourth Amended Complaint (4AC) alleging the same fifteen
causes of action as the TAC. On June 18, 2024, the court sustained Honda’s
demurrer and granted Plaintiff leave to amend.
 
Plaintiff has now
filed the the operative Fifth Amended Complaint (“5AC”) alleging the same
fifteen causes of action as the TAC and 4AC. 
 
Plaintiff now moves
to compel further responses to the request for production of documents (“RPD”)
Nos. 54, 55, and 5. Defendant Honda opposes the Motion. The matter is now
before the court. 
 
LEGAL STANDARDS 
 
Under CCP § 2031.310(a), parties may move for a further
response to request for production where an answer to the requests was evasive
or incomplete or where an objection is without merits or too general.¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Notice of the motions must be given within 45 days of
service of the verified response, otherwise, the propounding party waives any
right to compel a further response. (CCP § 2031.310(c).)¿ The motions must also
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (CCP § 2031.310(b).)¿ 
¿¿ 
Finally, CRC, rule 3.1345 requires that all motions or
responses involving further discovery contain a separate statement with the
text of each request, the response, and a statement of factual and legal
reasons for compelling further responses. (CRC, rule 3.1345(a)(3)).¿ 
 
motion to
compel further[1]
 
I.         Discussion
 
Plaintiff seeks:
(1) an order compelling Defendant Honda to produce all documents responsive to
Demand for Production of Documents (“RPD”), Set Three, Nos. 54, 55, and 56
served by Plaintiff on Honda on April 18, 2024; (2) an order compelling Honda
to provide further verified written responses that comply with the Code of
Civil Procedure; and (3) an order imposing sanctions against Honda and its
counsel in the amount of $6,000.00. 
 
 
 
RPD No. 54 seeks: 
 

“Any and all DOCUMENTS evidencing the reasons for the
     decision to offer Gwendolyn Hashimoto a direct hire position.” 

 
RPD No. 55 seeks:
 
·      
“Any and all DOCUMENTS evidencing the available headcount for
positions at Honda at or around the time that Gwendolyn Hashimoto was offered a
direct hire position.” 
 
RPD No.  56 seeks:
 

“Any and all DOCUMENTS evidencing the selection process
     for the engineer position ultimately filled by Gwendolyn Hashimoto,
     including any evidence of candidates considered.”


 
Plaintiff asserts
the documents requested are to show evidence of pretext related to Honda’s
stated reasons for its treatment of Plaintiff and refusal to directly hire
Plaintiff as an employee. 
 
Plaintiff alleges
that immediately after being informed of Plaintiff’s inability to travel due to
his health, Honda’s supervisors Masatsugu Endo and Pierre Descamps became angry
and decided to terminate Plaintiff’s employment by not renewing his contract.
(5AC, ¶ 35.) Instead, Gwen Hashimoto was selected as a direct hire despite
having less tenure and experience than Plaintiff. (Id., ¶ 40.) Plaintiff
believes it was because Hashimoto was outside of Plaintiff’s protected class. (Id.)
Plaintiff believes he should not have been terminated and instead been a direct
hire given his hard work, excellent performance, and experience. (Id., ¶
48.) 
 
Plaintiff asserts
that RPD Nos. 54, 55, and 56 are aimed at obtaining circumstantial evidence of
discrimination by showing that despite his qualifications, Honda’s failure to
directly hire Plaintiff constituted an adverse action due to discrimination based
on Plaintiff’s actual or perceived disability. The documents requested seek to
understand whether Honda’s proffered reasons for not hiring Plaintiff, and
instead hiring Hashimoto for the same engineer position that Plaintiff was
qualified for, have merit. This includes evidence about whether Honda had the
available headcount, including for direct hire employees, and if such evidence
would tend to disprove Honda’s reason that Plaintiff was not selected due to
budget reasons rather than because of discrimination. Moreover, any privacy
concerns are assuaged by the fact that the employee records would be produced
pursuant to the Parties’ protective order. 
 
Defendant Honda
asserts that employment records are private, and Plaintiff is not entitled to
the requested information. A party has a right of privacy in his or her
employment records. (See Alch v. Superior Court (2008) 165
Cal.App.4th 1412, 1426.) “But the
privacy right is not absolute and at times must yield to other important
interests.” (Grafilo v. Soorani (2019) 41 Cal.App.5th 497, 507.) A party
seeking discovery of private information need not always establish a compelling
interest or compelling need without regard to other considerations articulated
in Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1,
including the strength of the privacy interest itself, the seriousness of the
invasion, and the availability of alternatives and protective measures. (See Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557 (Williams).)  “Courts must instead place the burden on the
party asserting a privacy interest to establish its extent and the seriousness
of the prospective invasion, and against that showing must weigh the
countervailing interests the opposing party identifies, as Hill
requires.” (Id.). 
 
Defendant Honda cannot use the fact that employee records are private as
an absolute shield to deny Plaintiff’s requested discovery. While the court
agrees that employee records are private, the burden is on Defendant Honda to
show that discovery as to those records is extensive and serious and not
outweighed by Plaintiff’s countervailing interests in that information. “The
party seeking information may raise in response whatever legitimate and
important countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking
protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or
protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. A court must then
balance these competing considerations.” 
(Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.)
 
The fact that Plaintiff does not plead a disparate treatment claim does
not mean that the information sought is not relevant to proving discriminatory
animus because the information goes directly to Honda’s employment practices
when it comes to decisions to directly hire employees. “[A]ny party may obtain
discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject
matter involved in the pending action ... if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.” (CCP., § 2017.010; see Davies v. Superior
Court (1984) 36 Cal.3d 291, 301 [“discovery is not limited to admissible
evidence”].)
 
Defendant Honda asserts that Plaintiff’s request must be denied because
there are alternative means to obtain the information requested that are less
burdensome to obtain the information and protect employee records from
unnecessary disclosure. Defendant asserts that Plaintiff could submit an
interrogatory or deposition question requesting specific information about
Honda’s reasons for hiring Hashimoto and Honda’s section process for hiring
engineers. Defendant asserts that interrogatories or deposition questions are
less burdensome than producing “any and all documents” related to employees and
third party candidates. Defendants further assert that to protect privacy
interests, private information would need to be redacted, making the request
more burdensome. Plaintiff’s opposition fails to explain why interrogatories
and deposition questions are insufficient to provide the Plaintiff with the
information he seeks or why these means of discovery are more intrusive than
document production. 
 
The court agrees that there appears to be less burdensome means and
alternatives to obtain the requested information. Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion
for further RPD and request for sanctions is denied. 
 
Lastly, Plaintiff’s
request to strike the sur-reply is granted. “Points raised for the first time
in a reply brief will not be considered.” (Malmstrom v. Kaiser Aluminum
& Chemical Corp. (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 299, 320.)
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff’s request
for further responses to RPD Nos. 54, 55, and 56 is denied. Plaintiff to give
notice. 


