

 
SERVICE: 

 
[X]
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X]
Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X]
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK  
 
OPPOSITION:          None filed as of March 27, 2024                    [   ] Late          [X] None 
REPLY:                     None filed as of April 03, 2024                      [   ] Late          [X] None 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
December 07, 2022, Plaintiff State Farm Automobile Insurance Company (“Plaintiff”),
filed a subrogation action against Defendant Tyrone Mayfield (“Defendant”). The
case arises from alleged injuries sustained by Plaintiff’s insured during an
automobile accident allegedly involving the Defendant.
 
Defendant,
in propria persona, filed an Answer to the Complaint on April 21, 2023. 
 
On
September 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Deem Requests for Admissions as
to Defendant as Admitted. The Court granted Plaintiff’s motion on October 16,
2023, and ordered Defendant and his counsel, jointly and severally, to pay
sanctions in the amount of $460.00.
 
On
February 01, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for Judgment on the
Pleadings.  
 
No
opposition has been filed. 
 
  
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiff prays
for an order from the Court granting its motion for judgment on the pleadings
against the Defendant pursuant to CCP § 438(b)(1). Plaintiff asserts that upon
the Court taking judicial notice of the order granting Plaintiff’s Motion to
Deem Requests for Admissions admitted, the deemed admissions remove any issue raised
by the Defendant under a general denial or any affirmative defense raised in
his Answer. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
             No opposition has been filed. 
 
REPLY
 
             No reply has been filed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Evidentiary
Motions  
1.
Plaintiff’s request for the Court to take judicial notice of Defendant’s Answer
to the Complaint, marked as Exhibit 1, is GRANTED under Evidence Code
452(d) because it is a record of LA County
Superior Court. 
2. Plaintiff’s
request for the Court to take judicial notice of a true and correct copy of
Plaintiff’s accompanying Motion to Deem Requests for Admissions admitted is GRANTED
under Evidence Code 452(d) because it is a record of LA County
Superior Court.
3. Plaintiff’s
request for the Court to take judicial notice of Court’s October 16, 2023,
Minute Order deeming Plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions Admitted as to
Defendant is GRANTED under Evidence Code 452(d) because it is a record
of LA County Superior Court.
II.        Legal
Standard  
The standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the
pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a general demurrer,
that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with matters that may be
judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter
of law.  (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322,
citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th
1205, 1216.)  Matters which are subject to mandatory judicial notice may
be treated as part of the complaint and may be considered without notice to the
parties. Matters which are subject to permissive judicial notice must be
specified in the notice of motion, the supporting points, and authorities, or
as the court otherwise permits. (Id.)  The motion may not be
supported by extrinsic evidence. (Barker v. Hull (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d
221, 236.) 
 
When the moving party is a
plaintiff, he or she must demonstrate that the complaint states sufficient
facts to constitute a cause of action against the defendant and that the answer
does not state sufficient facts to constitute a defense to the complaint. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(A).)  
 
Additionally, a motion for judgment on the pleadings must
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to
meet and confer in person or by telephone, at least five days before the date a
motion for judgment on the pleadings is filed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 439.)  
III.       Discussion
A. Meet and Confer Requirement 
 
Before addressing the merits, the Court notes that the
Motion is accompanied by a “meet and confer” declaration as required by Code of
Civil Procedure Section 439(a). Here, Plaintiff provides the declaration of its
counsel who states that on January 03, 2024, her office served on Defendant a
meet and confer letter in compliance with CCP § 439 to the address listed on Defendant’s
Answer. (Janelle McCammack Esq. Decl. ¶ 1; Exh. 1.) To date, counsel swears
that she has received no contact from the Defendant. (Id. ¶ 2.)  Here, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s
declaration satisfies the meet and confer requirement under 439(a). 
 
            B. Causes
of Action – Subrogation
 
As a
preliminary matter, the Court notes that to the extent Plaintiff relies on
admissions that were deemed admitted, Plaintiff’s motion improperly seeks a
determination of evidentiary issues.  “In ruling on a demurrer, a court may consider facts of
which it has taken judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.30, subd. (a).) This
includes the existence of a document. When judicial notice is taken of a
document, however, the truthfulness and proper interpretation of the document
are disputable.”   (See Richtek USA, Inc. v. uPI Semiconductor Corporation
(2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 651, 660.)  
 
Plaintiff’s reliance on Pang v.
Beverly Hsp., Inc. to support its motion is misplaced.  In Pang, the court found that it could
consider matters that may be judicially noticed, including a party’s admissions
or concessions which cannot reasonably be controverted.” (See Pang,
at 990) (emphasis added). Specifically, the court judicially noticed the
declarations of plaintiff and her sister, excerpts of plaintiff’s deposition
testimony, and her separate statement of undisputed fact, to the extent they
bore on her need for family leave at issue in the case.  The judicially noticed documents in Pang
are distinguishable from those in the instant case.  Here, Defendant’s answer clearly contradicts
the judicially noticed admissions deemed admitted.  “[A] court ruling
on a demurrer cannot decide a question that may depend on disputed facts by
means of judicial notice.” (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 115, 55 Cal.Rptr.3d 621.)  Indeed, the Richtek court found that
the trial court erred by using judicially noticed documents to draw conclusions
that were contradictory to the express allegations in the operative
pleadings.  (See Richtek USA, Inc. v. uPI Semiconductor Corporation
(2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 651, 660-661.)  Therefore,
notwithstanding the Court’s taking judicial notice of Plaintiff’s Motion to
Deem RFAs as Admitted, and the Court’s order deeming Plaintiff’s RFAs as
admitted, they are still disputed by Defendant’s answer, and cannot form the
basis for the Court’s granting Plaintiff’s Motion.  
 
The
function of a motion for judgment on the pleadings, similar to a demurrer, is
to test the legal sufficiency of the pleadings. (See Richtek USA, Inc. v.
uPI Semiconductor Corporation (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 651, 660.) A hearing
on a demurrer, and thus motion for judgment on the pleadings, may not be turned
into a contested evidentiary hearing through the guise of having the court take
judicial notice of documents whose truthfulness or proper interpretation may be
disputable. (Id.) A motion for judgment on the pleadings is not the
appropriate procedure for determining the truth of disputed facts. (See id.)
To the extent Plaintiff relies on Barsegian v. Kessler & Kessler
(2013) 215 Cal App 4th 446 and Addy v. Bliss & Glennon (1996) 44 Cal
App 4th 205 to support the argument that Defendant’s
deemed admittances cannot be contradicted by Defendant’s answer, the Court
disagrees.  Such discrepancy is an
evidentiary issue. The more proper vehicle for arguments based on these
admissions would be a motion for summary judgment.
 
Plaintiff brings a subrogation action
against the Defendant for damages Plaintiff’s insured sustained in a motor
vehicle accident allegedly involving the Defendant. 
 
The essential elements of an
insurer's cause of action for equitable subrogation are as follows: 1) the
insured suffered a loss for which the defendant is liable, either as the
wrongdoer whose act or omission caused the loss or because the defendant is legally
responsible to the insured for the loss caused by the wrongdoer; 2) the claimed
loss was one for which the insurer was not primarily liable; 3) the insurer has
compensated the insured in whole or in part for the same loss for which the
defendant is primarily liable; 4) the insurer has paid the claim of its insured
to protect its own interest and not as a volunteer; 5) the insured has an
existing, assignable cause of action against the defendant which the insured
could have asserted for its own benefit had it not been compensated for its
loss by the insurer; 6) the insurer has suffered damages caused by the act or
omission upon which the liability of the defendant depends; 7) justice requires
that the loss be entirely shifted from the insurer to the defendant, whose
equitable position is inferior to that of the insurer; and 8) the insurer's
damages are in a liquidated sum, generally the amount paid to the insured.
 
(Interstate Fire & Casualty Ins. Co. v. Cleveland
Wrecking Co. (2010) 182 Cal.App.4th 23, 33–34.)
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges that
on or about December 18, 2019, at Broadway St., Los Angeles, CA 90291,
Defendant caused the insured to incur a loss that was covered under Plaintiff’s
insured’s policy. (Compl. p. 1-2; ¶ 6.) The Complaint alleges that Defendant
negligently operated a certain motor vehicle (“Vehicle”) by driving
inattentively or otherwise by driving without the due care required of a
reasonably prudent driver and thereby caused the accident. (Id.) Defendant’s
driving legally, foreseeably and proximately caused the insured to suffer
damages in the amount of $21,730.16. (Id.) On Plaintiff’s information
and belief, and/or in the alternative, Defendant was the registered owner
and/or bailees of the Vehicle which at the time of the accident, was being
driven with owner’s express or implied permission. (Id.) At all relevant
times, the insured had a policy of insurance with Plaintiff covering the
damages which are the subject of this action. (Id. ¶ 8.) As required by
both the policy and Plaintiff's duty of good faith and fair dealing with its
insured, Plaintiff investigated the loss, determined it was covered and paid
the claim. (Id.) The total loss was $21,730.16. (Id.) Plaintiff
now seeks subrogation of its payment (and recovery of any uncovered property
damage claims assigned by the insured), from all defendants, the parties
responsible for causing the loss. (Id.)
 
Defendant’s Answer generally denies
the allegations pleaded in Plaintiff’s Complaint and alleges that he was sick
and hospitalized due to a stroke, heart attack and other health issues around
April 2019. (See Answer. ¶3(g).) Upon his release in July 2019, Defendant
alleges that his wife picked him up and took him to Arkansas to live with her. (Id.)
Defendant gave the Vehicle to his stepson Jermaine Hightower and gave Jermaine
the Vehicle paperwork releasing his liability. (Id.) The Answer alleges
that Jermaine said he went to the DMV and registered the Vehicle in his name. (Id.)
The Answer further alleges that State Farm contacted the Defendant and told him
that there was an accident involving the Vehicle. (Id. ¶ 6.) Defendant
informed them that since July 2019, he no longer had ownership of the Vehicle
and gave them Jermaine’s information. (Id.) When Defendant called
Plaintiff to get an update on the car, Plaintiff said they had spoken with
Jermaine who had accepted responsibility and made payment arrangements. (Id.)
 
Plaintiff argues that it has met
its burden and Defendant’s
answer does not state sufficient facts to constitute a defense to the complaint
because upon the Court taking judicial notice of the Court’s
minute order deeming Plaintiff’s RFAs as admitted, when read with the facts,
the admitted admissions remove any issue raised by Defendant under his general
denial or any affirmative defenses raised in his Answer. However, Plaintiff
mistakes the purpose of the Court taking judicial notice in motions for
judgment on the pleadings. As mentioned above, it would be improper for the
Court to take the RFAs deemed admitted at face value. 
 
Here, Plaintiff has not carried its
burden under CCP § 438(c)(1)(A). Defendant’s Answer provides an affirmative
defense indicating that Plaintiff does not have a cause of action against the
Defendant because he was not the legal owner of the vehicle at the time of the
accident. Moreover, Defendant’s Answer additionally provides that Defendant had
previously put Plaintiff on notice of who was the actual and legal owner of the
Vehicle, and that Plaintiff assured him that the matter had been settled with
the party responsible for the accident. Thus, under
the state of the pleadings, since Defendant does have a defense to the
complaint, Plaintiff is not entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. 
 
 
IV.       Conclusion     
 
Plaintiff State Farm Mutual Auto’s
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.