

 
SERVICE: 

 
[X]
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X]
Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X]
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK  
 
OPPOSITION:          None filed as of March 27, 2024                    [   ] Late          [X] None 
REPLY:                     None filed as of April 04, 2024                      [   ] Late          [X] None 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
December 06, 2023, Petitioner Clark/Lewis, a Joint Venture (“Petitioner”) filed
the instant Petition to Enforce Respondent’s Compliance with Subpoena for Production
of Business Records against the Respondent Smith Emery Laboratories, Inc.
(“Respondent”).  
 
No
opposition has been filed. 
  
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Petitioner
moves the Court to issue an order compelling Respondent’s compliance with
Petitioner’s deposition subpoena for production of Business records served on
October 17, 2023, (“Subpoena”) under Code of Civil Procedure §§ 1987.1(a),
2020.030, and 2020.410. Petitioner asserts that Respondent has failed to
produce documents responsive to the Subpoena. Petitioner argues that the Subpoena
seeks critical information directly relevant to the multi-billion-dollar
Washington State Convention Center addition project, including the offshore
steel fabrication performed in China, shipment and transportation of steel,
steel erection, quality assurance and quality control required by Smith Emery’s
contract, and correspondence between Smith Emery and the litigants, or other
third parties, related to the Convention Center project. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
             No opposition has been filed. 
 
REPLY
 
             No reply has been filed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Legal Standard  
A deposition subpoena may
command only the production of business records without attendance at a
deposition from a nonparty. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020, subd. (b).) A deposition subpoena that requires only the production of
documents “shall designate the business records to be produced either by
specifically describing each individual item or by reasonably particularizing
each category of item…” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.410, subd. (a).) A deposition
subpoena for the production of business documents need not be accompanied by an
affidavit of good cause and must be directed at the custodian of records or
other person qualified to certify those documents. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.410, subd. (c).) The responding party must comply with a deposition
subpoena on a date that is no earlier than 20 days after the issuance or 15
days after service of the subpoena, whichever is later. (Id.)  
 
A deposition subpoena is
enforceable under Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.030.) After notice and opportunity to be heard, the Court may issue an
order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance
with it upon terms and conditions as the Court may declare. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1987.1, subd. (a).) Courts also have the authority to protect the responding
person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person. (Id.) 
 
A nonparty’s failure to comply
with a deposition subpoena may be punished for contempt under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) and may be subject to the forfeiture and
payment of damages set forth in Section 1992. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.240.)  
 
II.        Discussion
The
petition arises from an out of state breach of contract litigation between the
Petitioner and its structural steel subcontractor American Bridge Company
(“American Bridge”). (Pet. p. 3:7-11.) Petitioner alleges that Respondent was
subcontracted by American Bridge to perform inspections and quality control on
the fabricated steel for the Project and possess business records and
communications relevant to its quality assurance and quality control
obligations. (Id. p. 4:9-11.) Petitioner asserts that to “gather
critical evidence relevant to the offshore steel fabrication performed in
China, shipment and transportation, steel erection, quality assurance, quality
control, and related correspondence, [Petitioner] served [Respondent]with a
subpoena for the production of business records on October 17, 2023.” (Id.
p. 3:13-16.) 
 
Petitioner
provides the declaration of its counsel who states that on June 21, 2023, Petitioner
subpoenaed the Respondent for business records under the jurisdiction of the
Los Angeles County Superior Court (“June Subpoena”). (Gillian Kuhlmann Decl. ¶
2; Exh. 1.) Petitioner’s subpoena demanded the production of business records
related to the project which Respondent performed inspections and quality
control of steel that American Bridge fabricated in China and transported to
the Project for erection.[1] (Id.)

 
Counsel
declares that out of an abundance of caution, in noting an inadvertent error in
the production date noted on the June Subpoena, and to demonstrate Petitioner’s
commitment to informally working through the dispute with Respondent,
Petitioner issued a new subpoena for the production of business records on
October 17, 2023 (“Subpoena”). (Id. ¶ 5; Exh. 4.) The Subpoena listed a
production date of November 10, 2023, at 12 p.m. (Id. Exh. 5.)  Counsel avers that the production deadline
passed with no acknowledgement from the Respondent. (Id. ¶ 5.) Counsel states
that he “again wrote to Smith Emery demanding immediate production in order to
avoid enforcement proceedings” after the production deadline had passed with no
acknowledgement from Respondent. (Id. ¶ 6; Exh. 5.) After counsel sent
the email, Joe Kingston of Smith Emery called counsel to discuss the Subpoena to
which Mr. Kingston represented that he had forgotten to send the links to Respondent’s
production and would send those emails along that day. Mr. Kingston forwarded
counsel two emails on November 10 with links to download Respondent’s
production. Mr. Kingston additionally sent a third email stating that “‘[m]any
of the items requested do not apply to Smith Emery Laboratories, Inc. and the
requested items would be better suited to obtained from American Bridge . . .
.’” (Id. ¶¶ 7-9; Exh. 8.). Counsel declares that after reviewing
Respondent’s production, counsel and his colleagues determined that the
production was still missing critical categories of documents.[2] (Id.¶
10.) Petitioner’s counsel subsequently responded to Mr. Kingston’s email explaining
that Respondent’s latest production remained incomplete and reminding
Respondent that “‘the fact that another party may possess the requested
documents does not relieve Smith Emery of its legal obligation to comply with
the subpoena and produce all documents in its custody responsive to the
document requests.’” (Id.; Exh. 8) 
 
Counsel
later states that on November 17, 2023, he would receive a telephone call from
Siobhan Ruck in regard to supplementing Respondent’s production. (Id.
11.) Counsel swears that Ms. Ruck represented that Respondent’s production of
responsive emails was forthcoming, and that after the call, Ms. Ruck emailed a
supplemental production that included additional responsive documents with
certain previously unproduced Project records. (Id.; Exh. 9.) However,
Respondent’s November 17 supplemental production did not include Smith Emery’s
email correspondence related to the Project. (Id. ¶ 12.) Counsel called
Ms. Ruck to follow up on the remaining outstanding Project records.  On that call, Ms. Ruck did not provide a date
certain by which production would be completed but did follow up via email the
next morning on the status of each document request in the Subpoena. (Id.;
Exh. 8.) Counsel declares that after reviewing Respondent’s email production,
counsel and his colleagues discovered that Respondent had only produced
documents that contained the search term “Josh Ishibashi.” (Id. ¶ 14;
Exh 8.) Counsel called Ms. Ruck on December 01, 2023, to discuss the deficient
email production and followed that telephone call with an email expressing
Petitioner’s concerns. Counsel avers that Respondent did not respond to his
December 01 email regarding its insufficient production of responsive emails. (Id.
¶¶ 14-15.) 
 
Petitioner
argues that the Subpoena is likely to lead to the discovery of relevant
evidence because it concerns the offshore steel fabrication performed in China,
shipment and transportation, steel erection, quality assurance, quality
control, and related correspondence, issues that are all directly relevant to
American Bridge’s performance of its subcontract with the Petitioner. (Pet. p. 8:
2-6.) Petitioner further argues that Mr. Ishibashi’s email correspondence is deficient
because it is unlikely to capture the numerous categories of responsive
documents as Mr. Ishibashi is unlikely to be on every record or communication
related to the $2 billion Project spanning more than 6 years. Petitioner asserts
that Respondent’s incomplete responses does not meet its obligation under CCP
§§ 2020.410(c) and 2020.430 because despite being given multiple accommodations,
it has failed to produce responsive records or served objections to the
Subpoena.
 
Respondent
does not file any opposition to the instant Petition. 
 
The
Court finds good cause in compelling the production of the requested documents.
Here Petitioner provides evidence that the requested documents will lead to discovery
of relevant evidence related to Petitioner’s active litigation for breach of
contract against American Bridge. Specifically, the requested documents seek
the productions that are relevant to American Bridge’s performance under the
contract. Moreover, based on the moving papers, Respondent’s responses to date
do not fully comply with the Subpoena and Respondent has not indicated any
objections to producing all the relevant documents requested. Thus, the Court
GRANTS Petitioner’s Petition to Enforce Respondent’s Compliance with Subpoena
for Production of Business Records.
 
III.       Conclusion 
            
            Petitioner Clark Lewis’s Petition
to Enforce Respondent’s Compliance with Subpoena for Production of Business
Records is GRANTED. Respondent Smith
Emery Laboratories, Inc. is ordered
to produce documents responding to the Subpoena as discussed herein within twenty
(20) days from notice of this Court’s Order. 
 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice

