 Case Number:  23STCV27464    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  11 Casas (23STCV27464)
 
Tentative Ruling Re: Motion to Compel Arbitration
 
Date:                           3/19/24
Time:                          2:30
pm
Moving Party:           Secret Charm LLC (“Secret Charm” or
“Defendant”)
Opposing Party:        Trisha Casas (“Plaintiff”)
Department:              11        
Judge:                        David
S. Cunningham III
________________________________________________________________________
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The hearing on Defendant’s motion to
compel arbitration is continued.  The
Court’s intention is to hold an evidentiary hearing with live testimony.
 
BACKGROUND
Secret Charm manufactures clothes
for women.
 
Plaintiff is a former
employee.  She alleges that she and other
current and former employees were subjected to numerous wage-and-hour
violations.
 
Here, Secret Charm moves to
compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s individual claims.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Existence and Assent:
 
“[W]hen
a petition to compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie
evidence of a written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine whether the agreement exists
and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised, whether it is enforceable.”  (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) 
 
“Under ‘both federal and state law, the threshold
question . . . is whether there is an agreement to arbitrate.’”  (Cruise v. Kroger Co. (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 390, 396, emphasis in original.)
 
The
burden of proof rests with the petitioner. 
(See Rosenthal, supra, 14 Cal.4th at 413 [requiring the
petitioner to prove the existence of the agreement “by a preponderance of the
evidence”].)  To meet the burden, “the provisions of the written
agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration . . . must be stated
verbatim or a copy must be physically or electronically attached to the
petition and incorporated by reference.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see also Condee v. Longwood
Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218 [same].)
 
“Competent
evidence is required to establish both the existence of the arbitration
agreement and any ground for denial.” 
(Knight, et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Alternative Dispute Resolution
(The Rutter Group December 2023 Update) ¶ 5:321.)  “The verified petition (and attached copy of
the agreement) normally proves the existence of the arbitration agreement.  Affidavits or declarations may be necessary
when factual issues are tendered.”  
(Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff
started working for Defendant in February 2018. 
(See Edwards Decl., ¶ 5; see also Plaintif Decl., ¶ 3.)  During the onboarding process, which took
place online, Defendant’s third-party vendor, MyStaffingPro, presented multiple
documents to Plaintiff, including the Employee Handbook.  (See Edwards Decl., ¶¶ 6-7; see also
Plaintiff Decl., ¶¶ 5-7.)  It is
undisputed that Plaintiff acknowledged receiving the Employee Handbook by
e-signing the Employee Handbook Acknowledgment Form.  (See Edwards Decl., ¶¶ 6-8; see also
Plaintiff Decl., ¶¶ 5-7.)
 
The
last few pages of the Employee Handbook allegedly contained a document called
the Employee Acknowledgment and Agreement. 
(See Edwards Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.)  The
Employee Acknowledgment and Agreement contains an arbitration provision.  The document states:
 
EMPLOYEE ACKNOWLEDGMENT
AND AGREEMENT
 
This will acknowledge that I have received my copy of the
Secret Charm, LLC Employee Handbook and that I will familiarize myself with its
contents.  I understand that this
handbook represents the current policies, regulations, and benefits, and that
except for employment at-will status and the arbitration provision below
(“Arbitration Agreement”), any and all policies or practices can be changed at
any time by the Company.  The Company
retains the right to add, change, or delete wages, benefits, policies, and all
other working conditions at any time (except the policy of “at-will employment”
and Arbitration Agreement, which may not be changed, altered, revised or
modified without a writing signed by the President of the Company).
 
I further understand that nothing in the Employee
Handbook creates or is intended to create a promise or representation of
continued employment wand that my employment, position, and compensation at the
Company are at-will, and may be changed or terminated at the will of the
Company.  I understand that I have the
right to terminate my employment at any time, with or without cause or notice,
and that the Company has a similar right. 
My signature below certifies that I understand the foregoing agreement
that at-will status is the sole and entire agreement between the Company and
myself concerning the duration of my employment and the circumstances under
which my employment may be terminated. 
It supersedes all prior agreements, understandings, and representations
(whether written or oral) concerning my employment with the Company.
 
I further agree and acknowledge that the Company and I
will utilize binding arbitration to resolve all disputes that may arise out of
the employment context.  Both the Company
and I agree that any claim, dispute, and/or controversy that either I may have
against the Company (or its owners, directors, officers, managers, employees,
agents, and partis affiliated with its employee benefit and health plans) or
the Company may have against me, arising from, related to, or having any
relationship or connection whatsoever with my seeking employment with,
employment by, or other association with the Company shall be submitted to and
determined exclusively by binding arbitration under the Federal Arbitration Ac,
in conformity with the procedures of the California Arbitration Act (Cal. Code
Civ. Proc. sec. 1280 et seq., including section 1283.05 and all of the Act’s
other mandatory and permissive rights to discovery).  Included within the scope of this Agreement
are all disputes, whether based on tort, contract, statute (including, but not
limited to, any claims of discrimination and harassment, whether they be based
on the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, Title VII of the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, as amended, or any other state or federal law or regulation),
equitable law, or otherwise, with exception of claims arising under the
National Labor Relations Act which are brought before the National Labor
Relations Board, claims for medical and disability benefits under the
California Workers’ Compensation Act, Employment Development Department claim,
or as otherwise is required by state or federal law.  However, nothing herein shall prevent me from
filing and pursuing proceedings before the California Department of Fair Employment
and Housing, or the United States Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
(although if I choose to pursue a claim following the exhaustion of such
administrative remedies, that claim would be subject to the provisions of this
Agreement).  In addition to any other
requirements imposed by law, the arbitrator selected shall be a retired
California Superior Court Judge, or otherwise qualified individual to whom the
parties mutually agree, and shall be subject to disqualification on the same
grounds as would apply to a judge of such court.  All rules of pleading (including the right of
demurrer), all rules of evidence, all rights to resolution of the dispute by
means of motion for summary judgment, judgment on the pleadings, and judgment
under Code of Civil Procedure Section 631.8 shall apply and be observed.  The Company shall bear full responsibility
for the arbitrator’s fees and costs. 
Each party shall pay for its own costs and attorneys’ fees, if any.  However, if any party prevails on a statutory
claim which affords the prevailing party attorneys’ fees, or if there is a
written agreement providing for fees, the arbitrator may award reasonable fees
to the prevailing party.  Resolution of
the dispute shall be based solely upon the law governing the claims and
defenses pleaded, and the arbitrator may not invoke any basis (including but
not limited to, notions of “just cause”) other than such controlling law.  The arbitrator shall have the immunity of a
judicial officer from civil liability when acting in the capacity of an
arbitrator, which immunity supplements any other existing immunity.  Likewise, all communications during or in
connection with the arbitration proceedings are privileged in accordance with
Cal. Civil Code Section 47(b).  As
reasonably required to allow full use and benefit of this agreement’s
modifications to the Act’s procedures, the arbitrator shall extend the times
set by the Act for the giving of notices and setting of hearings.  Awards shall include the arbitrator’s written
reasoned opinion.  I understand and agree
to this binding arbitration provision, and both I and the Company give up our
right to trial by jury of any claim that I or the Company may have against each
other.
 
This is the entire agreement between the Company and me
regarding dispute resolution, the length of my employment, and the reasons for
termination of employment, and this agreement supersedes any an all prior
agreements regarding these issues.  It is
further agreed and understood that any agreement contrary to the foregoing must
be entered into in writing by the President of the Company.  No manager or representative of the Company,
other than its President, has any authority to enter into any agreement for
employment for any specified period of time or make any agreement contrary to
the foregoing.  Oral representations made
before or after I was hired do not alter this Agreement.  If any term or provision, or portion of this
Agreement is declared void or unenforceable it shall be severed and the
remainder of this Agreement shall be enforceable.
 
MY SIGNATURE BELOW ATTESTS TO THE FACT THAT I HAVE READ,
UNDERSTAND, AND AGREE TO BE LEGALLY BOUND TO ALL OF THE ABOVE TERMS.  DO NOT SIGN UNTIL YOU HAVE READ THE ABOVE
ACKNOWLEDGMENT AND AGREEMENT.
 
(Id. at Ex. A [Employee Acknowledgment and Agreement, pp.
1-2], emphasis in original.)
 
Facts
and terms like these usually suffice to establish an agreement to arbitrate;
however, Plaintiff raises an assent challenge. 
She claims she does not remember “seeing an arbitration agreement in the
documents [she] signed.”  (Plaintiff
Decl., ¶ 8.)  She contends the motion
should be denied because the arbitration provision is unsigned and needs her
signature to be enforceable.  She cites Donohoe
v. Orange County Global Medical Center, 2019 Cal. Super. LEXIS 58421, Morse
v. Tesla Motors, 2023 Cal. Super. LEXIS 12664, Mitri v. Arnel Management
Co. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 1164, and Gorlach v. Sports Club
Co. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1497 in support.  (See Opposition, pp. 3-7.)
 
Donohoe
and Morse are unpublished
decisions.  They cannot be cited, so the
Court declines to consider them.
 
Defendant
contends Mitri and Gorlach are distinguishable.  There, Defendant asserts that the employee
handbooks obligated the employees to execute arbitration agreements that were
separate from the handbooks.  Defendant
claims the courts denied arbitration because the evidence failed to show that
the employees signed the separate agreements. 
Here, differently, Defendant contends the evidence shows assent because
the arbitration provision was part of the Employee Handbook, and Plaintiff
e-signed the Employee Handbook Acknowledgment Form, acknowledging reception of
the Handbook.  (See Reply, pp. 4-5.)  
 
Several
cases, in addition to Mitri and Gorlach, address this issue.  The cases generally recognize that an
unsigned arbitration agreement – which is part of, or provided in connection
with, an employee handbook – can be enforced if the employee signed an acknowledgment
of receipt.  The acknowledgment’s
language is one important factor to evaluate. 
(See Mitri, supra, 157 Cal.App.4th at 1173; see also Gorlach,
supra, 209 Cal.App.4th at 1507-1511; Harris v. TAP Worldwide, LLC
(2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 373, 381-385; Esparza v. Sand & Sea,
Inc. (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th 781, 788-792; Sparks v. Vista Del Mar Child & Family
Services (2012) 207
Cal.App.4th 1511, 1519-1522; Mendoza v. Trans Valley Transport (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 748, 782-791; Romo v. Y-3 Holdings, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1153, 1158-1160; Avery v. Integrated Healthcare Holdings, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 50, 68-70; Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th
771, 804-806.)
 
On one hand, the cases support
Defendant’s position because: 
 
(1) Page 6 of the Employee Handbook
“note[s] that Secret Charm utilizes a system of binding arbitration for
resolving disputes with employees that cannot be resolved by other means, and
which would otherwise be subject to resolution in court” (Edwards Decl., Ex. A
[Employee Handbook, p. 6]);  
 
(2) the arbitration provision appears in
the Employee Acknowledgment and Agreement (see id. at Ex. A [Employee
Acknowledgment and Agreement, pp. 1-2]);
 
(3) Defendant’s human resources manager
declares that Defendant included the “Employee Acknowledgment and Agreement . .
. within the last pages of the Employee Handbook” (id. at ¶ 6); 
 
(4) the “Purpose” section of the Handbook
states that the Employee Acknowledgment and Agreement is “enclosed[,]”
(id. at Ex. A [Employee Handbook, p. 5], emphasis in original); 
 
(5) Plaintiff affirmed reception of the
Handbook (see id. at Ex. B [Employee Handbook Acknowledgment Form, p. 1]; see
also Plaintiff Decl., ¶ 7); 
 
(6) Plaintiff’s assertion – she does not
remember seeing an arbitration agreement – is not a defense;
 
(7) the arbitration provision states that
the FAA applies (see Edwards Decl., Ex. A [Employee Acknowledgment and
Agreement, p. 1]); and 
 
(8) federal and California policy favor
arbitration.
 
On the other hand, the cases support
Plaintiff’s position because:
 
(1) the table of contents in the Handbook does not reference a
section or page pertaining to arbitration (see id. at Ex. A [Employee Handbook,
pp. 1-2]); 
 
(2) while page 6 of the Handbook “note[s] that Secret Charm
utilizes a system of binding arbitration for resolving disputes with employees
that cannot be resolved by other means, and which would otherwise be subject to
resolution in court” (Edwards Decl., Ex. A [Employee Handbook, p. 6]), and
while the “Purpose” section
states that the Employee Acknowledgment and Agreement is “enclosed[,]”
the Handbook also states that it “should not be construed as creating any kind
of ‘employment contract’” and only constitutes “a summary of the benefits,
policies and procedures in effect at the time of its publication” (id. at Ex. A
[Employee Handbook, p. 5], emphasis in original); see also Opposition, p. 7
[discussing Mendoza, supra, 75 Cal.App.5th 748]); 
 
(3) though Plaintiff’s
name and e-signature appear on the Handbook acknowledgment of receipt, there is
no mention of either the Employee Acknowledgment and Agreement or the
arbitration provision (see Edwards Decl., Ex. B [Employee Handbook
Acknowledgement Form, p. 1]);
 
(4) Plaintiff expressly
initialed five policies and agreements to confirm that she had reviewed them;
the arbitration provision was not one of them (see id. at Ex. B [Policies and
Agreements, p. 1]); and
 
(5) the email from
MyStaffingPro to Defendant stating that Plaintiff completed the onboarding
process says nothing about arbitration (see id. at Ex. C).
 
The Court finds that the
matter should be continued.  Additional
evidence is needed to resolve the assent issue. 
The Court intends to hold an evidentiary hearing with live testimony to
further develop the record.
 
Plaintiff attempts to
create an issue about pagination.  She
contends the arbitration provision is separate from the Handbook since the
pagination differs; instead of following the Handbook’s page numbering, the
arbitration provision’s two pages are numbered 1 and 2.  (See id. at Ex. A [Employee Acknowledgment
and Agreement, pp. 1-2].)  
 
Yes, the pagination
differs, but the key question is whether the arbitration provision – separate
or not – was presented to Plaintiff with the Handbook.  The Court expects the parties to discuss this
issue at the evidentiary hearing. 
 
Plaintiff argues that
the one-sentence reference to arbitration on page 6 of the Handbook is not
itself an arbitration agreement.  The
Court agrees for the reasons stated in her opposition (see Opposition, pp.
7-10), yet the outcome is the same.  A
continuance to hold an evidentiary hearing is necessary.
 
Enforcement
 
“[U]nconscionability has
both a procedural and a substantive element, the former focusing on oppression
or surprise due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on overly harsh or
one-sided results.”  (Armendariz v.
Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114,
internal quotation marks omitted.)  “The
prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive unconscionability] must
both be present in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to
enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of unconscionability.”  (Ibid.) 
“But they need not be present in the same degree.”  (Ibid.) 
“Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity
of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in
proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive
terms themselves.”  (Ibid.)  “In other words, the more substantively
oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability
is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice
versa.”  (Ibid.)  
 
For procedural
unconscionability, Plaintiff argues that the arbitration agreement is a
contract of adhesion and that the sentence on page 6 of the Handbook mentioning
arbitration is buried, creating surprise and oppression.  (See Opposition, pp. 13-14.)
 
The argument is
premature.  
 
As a matter of guidance,
though, the Court disagrees.  An
arbitration agreement “is not invalid merely because it is imposed as a
condition of employment.” (Lagatree v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps
(1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1122–1123.) 
“[T]he mandatory nature of an arbitration agreement does not, by itself,
render the agreement unenforceable.” 
(Ibid.; see also Knight, supra, at ¶ 5:146 [“The mere fact an adhesion
contract is involved does not per se render the arbitration clause
unenforceable.  Rationale: Such contracts
are ‘an inevitable fact of life for all citizens – businessman and consumer
alike.’”], emphasis in original.) 
Moreover, Plaintiff’s reference to page 6 of the Handbook is unavailing.  The arbitration provision is in the Employee
Acknowledgment and Agreement, which was enclosed with the Handbook.  Defendant’s declarant affirms that it was
included with the Handbook in the onboarding process.  (See Edwards Decl., ¶¶ 6-7.)
 
For substantive
unconscionability, Plaintiff claims the sentence on page 6 is inadequate
because it fails to state the arbitration terms.  (See Opposition, p. 15.)
 
The argument is off
point.  Again, the arbitration agreement
is not the sentence on page 6; it is the arbitration provision in the Employee
Acknowledgment and Agreement.  Plaintiff
does not identify any substantive unconscionability in the Employee
Acknowledgment and Agreement.
 
Accordingly, in the event
an agreement to arbitrate is found to exist, the Court intends to find it
enforceable.
 
Stay
 
Defendant
fails to identify a class waiver in the arbitration provision. 
 
If an
agreement to arbitrate ends up being found to exist, the Court intends to grant
Plaintiff’s counsel leave to conduct discovery to try to locate a new class
representative for the class. The case would be stayed as to the class claims
for all other purposes.
 