  Case Number:  23LBCV01560    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  S25 TENTATIVE RULING:DEMURRER:Defendant’s demurrer as to the 1st Cause of Action (Assault and Battery) is OVERRULED.The complaint alleges that on June 23, 2022, Plaintiff was s thereafter approached by a Defendant Employer’s Employee (hereinafter “Defendant Employee”) (Complaint ¶ 13.) “Upon information and belief, and without any justification, Defendant Employee began violently attacking Plaintiff. Upon information and belief, Defendant Employee punched Plaintiff’s face approximately 4-5 times with a closed fist. (Id.¶ 17–18.) Plaintiff claims these allegations sufficiently alleges facts that he was repeatedly punched by Defendant’s Employee during the course and scope of his employment with Defendant at the time.“The rule of respondeat superior is familiar and simply stated: an employer is vicariously liable for the torts of its employees committed within the scope of the employment. [Citation.] Equally well established, if somewhat surprising on first encounter, is the principle that an employee’s willful, malicious and even criminal torts may fall within the scope of his or her employment for purposes of respondeat superior, even though the employer has not authorized the employee to commit crimes or intentional torts.” (Lisa M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital (1995) 12 Cal.4th 291, 296-297.) “California no longer follows the traditional rule that an employee’s actions are within the scope of employment only if motivated, in whole or part, by a desire to serve the employer’s interests.” (Id. at 297.) However, “[w[hile the employee thus need not have intended to further the employer’s interests, the employer will not be held liable for an assault or other intentional tort that did not have a causal nexus to the employee's work.” (Id.) “California courts have [] asked whether the tort was, in a general way, foreseeable from the employee's duties. Respondeat superior liability should apply only to the types of injuries that are ‘as a practical matter are sure to occur in the conduct of theemployer's enterprise.’ [Citation.] The employment, in other words, must be such as predictably to create the risk employees will commit intentional torts of the type for which liability is sought.” (Id. at 299.)The Court finds that there are sufficient facts to show that the alleged assault and battery arose from the employee’s scope of employment because Plaintiff states that the employee punched Plaintiff’s face after asking about Plaintiff’s vehicle antenna, which was likely within the scope of conduct for performing a car wash service. Although “vicarious liability [may be] inappropriate where the misconduct does not arise from the conduct of the employer's enterprise but instead arises out of a personal dispute,” here, there are sufficient facts to conclude that the misconduct arose from the conduct of the car wash services. (Lisa M., supra 12 Cal.4th at 301.) Further, “the determination whether an employee has acted within the scope of employment presents a question of fact; it becomes a question of law, [only] when ‘the facts are undisputed and no conflicting inferences are possible.’ ” (Id. at 299.) Here, there are only factual allegations that are sufficient to constitute a cause of action for assault/battery. Whether the employee actually acted within the scope of employment remains a question of fact and is unsuitable to be determined at this stage of litigation. Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer as to the 1st Cause of Action (Assault and Battery) is OVERRULED.Defendant’s demurrer as to the 2nd Cause of Action (Negligence) is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.An employer may owe a duty of care in hiring and supervising its employees so as to avoid exposing third persons to an unreasonable risk of harm: “An employer may be liable to a third person for the employer’s negligence in hiring or retaining an employee who is incompetent or unfit.” (Federico v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1207, 1210-1211.) The basic elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) the existence of a legal duty to use due care; (2) breach of that duty; and (3) the breach as a proximate cause of the plaintiff’s injury. (Ibid.; see also CACI 400.) Foreseeability of the harm is key. The employer is not liable merely because its employee is incompetent, vicious or careless. A duty of care to third persons arises only when a risk of harm to such persons by the employee was reasonably foreseeable; i.e., only “when the employer knows, or should know, facts which would warn a reasonable person that the employee presents an undue risk of harm to third persons in light of the particular work to be performed.” (Federico, supra, 59 Cal.App.4th at p. 1214; see also Doe v. Capital Cities (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1038, 1055 [“cornerstone of a negligent hiring theory is the risk that the employee will act in a certain way and the employee does act in that way”].)Upon review of the Complaint, the Court finds the negligent hiring claim to be deficient as it fails to provide any facts to satisfy the element of the existence of a legal duty. Since theexistence of duty arises when risk of harm was foreseeable, plaintiff must allege facts that defendant had a reason to believe the employee had a propensity for violence. Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer as to the 2nd Cause of Action (Negligence) is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.MOTION TO STRIKE:Based upon the Court’s ruling as to the 2nd cause of action, Defendant’s motion to strike is moot.