 Case Number:  23STCV07834    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  On  April 7, 2023, Plaintiff Oscar Jose Rosa Garcia filed this action against  Defendants PRN Ambulance, LLC (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for motor vehicle  tort and general negligence.  On  May 8, 2023, Plaintiffs Oscar Jose Rosa  Garcia and Yeny Liseth Flores Garcia filed a first amended complaint against Defendant and Does 1-50 for motor vehicle tort,  general negligence, loss of consortium, and prejudgment interest.  On  June 6, 2023, Defendant filed an answer.  On  May 31, 2024, Defendant filed a motion for non-monetary and monetary sanctions  against Plaintiffs under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7.  The motion was set for hearing on July 15,  2024.  On July 1, 2024, Plaintiffs filed  an opposition. On July 3, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.  The  trial is currently set for October 4, 2024.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Defendant  asks the Court to impose sanctions on Plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs  ask the Court to deny the motion and impose monetary sanctions on Defendant. LEGAL STANDARD  Code  of Civil Procedure section 128.7 provides in part:  “(b) By presenting to the court, whether by signing,  filing, submitting, or later advocating, a pleading, petition, written notice  of motion, or other similar paper, an attorney or unrepresented party is  certifying that to the best of the person’s knowledge, information, and belief,  formed after an inquiry reasonable under the circumstances, all of the  following conditions are met:  “(1) It is not being presented primarily for an  improper purpose, such as to harass or to cause unnecessary delay or needless  increase in the cost of litigation.  “(2) The claims, defenses, and other legal contentions  therein are warranted by existing law or by a nonfrivolous argument for the  extension, modification, or reversal of existing law or the establishment of  new law.  “(3) The allegations and other factual contentions  have evidentiary support or, if specifically so identified, are likely to have  evidentiary support after a reasonable opportunity for further investigation or  discovery.  “(4) The denials of factual contentions are warranted  on the evidence or, if specifically so identified, are reasonably based on a  lack of information or belief.  “(c) If, after notice and a reasonable opportunity to  respond, the court determines that subdivision (b) has been violated, the court  may, subject to the conditions stated below, impose an appropriate sanction  upon the attorneys, law firms, or parties that have violated subdivision (b) or  are responsible for the violation. In determining what sanctions, if any,  should be ordered, the court shall consider whether a party seeking sanctions  has exercised due diligence.  “(1) A motion for sanctions under this section shall  be made separately from other motions or requests and shall describe the  specific conduct alleged to violate subdivision (b). Notice of motion shall be  served as provided in Section 1010, but shall not be filed with or presented to  the court unless, within 21 days after service of the motion, or any other  period as the court may prescribe, the challenged paper, claim, defense,  contention, allegation, or denial is not withdrawn or appropriately corrected. If  warranted, the court may award to the party prevailing on the motion the  reasonable expenses and attorney’s fees incurred in presenting or opposing the  motion. Absent exceptional circumstances, a law firm shall be held jointly  responsible for violations committed by its partners, associates, and employees.  * * * “(h) A motion for sanctions brought by a party or a  party’s attorney primarily for an improper purpose, such as to harass or to  cause unnecessary delay or needless increase in the cost of litigation, shall  itself be subject to a motion for sanctions. It is the intent of the  Legislature that courts shall vigorously use its sanctions authority to deter  that improper conduct or comparable conduct by others similarly situated.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7,  subds. (b), (c)(1), (h).)  DISCUSSION  A.   The first amended complaint  The  first amended complaint alleges the following:  On  May 12, 2021, at the intersection of Alameda Street & E. 67th Street in Los  Angeles, Defendant negligently (1) employed persons who operated a motor  vehicle in the course of their employment, (2) owned the motor vehicle, which  was operated with its permission, and (3) entrusted the motor vehicle.  As a result, Plaintiffs were injured.  Defendants  negligently entrusted, managed, maintained, drove and operated their motor  vehicle, proximately causing the vehicle to  collide with the vehicle that Plaintiff Oscar Jose Rosa Garcia was in.  Plaintiffs suffered  damages.  B.   Motion for sanctions  Defendant  argues it is entitled to sanctions because Plaintiffs have refused to dismiss  the case even though it is time-barred under MICRA.  Defendant’s  motion relies on purported facts outside the four corners of the complaint.  However, Defendant has not filed a motion for  summary judgment but an improper motion for sanctions, depriving Plaintiffs of  the procedural protections of Code of Civil Procedure section 437c.  The Court denies the motion.  Plaintiffs  request sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7, subdivision (h).  The Court finds that Plaintiffs are entitled  to sanctions.  After Plaintiffs pointed  out in their opposition that Defendant’s  motion was an improper attempt to obtain summary judgment without complying  with the applicable evidentiary and procedural requirements, Defendant filed a  reply that ignored this point.   The Court concludes that Defendant has no  reasonable basis for believing that its motion for sanctions is appropriate.  Plaintiffs  ask the Court to impose $2,700.00 in sanctions based nine hours of attorney  time at $300.00 per hour.  Counsel spent seven  hours preparing Plaintiffs’ opposition and expected to spend two hours to  prepare for and attend the hearing.  The  Court awards Plaintiffs $750.00 in sanctions based on three hours of attorney  time at a reasonable rate of $250.00 per hour.  CONCLUSION  The  Court DENIES Defendant PRN Ambulance, LLC’s  motion for sanctions.  The  Court GRANTS the request for sanctions of Plaintiffs Oscar Jose Rosa Garcia and  Yeny Liseth Flores Garcia and orders Defendant PRN Ambulance, LLC, and its counsel to pay Plaintiffs Oscar Jose Rosa Garcia and Yeny Liseth Flores Garcia  $750.00 by August 14, 2024.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling within five days. 