 Case Number:  24NNCV04755    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



LIPING HUANG, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
YIHANG
   DUAN,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 24NNCV04755
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
   6, 2024



 
On October 2,
2024, plaintiff Liping Huang (“Plaintiff”) filed this unlawful detainer action
against defendant Yihang Duan (“Defendant”). On October 7, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a proof of service reflecting that Defendant was personally served on
October 4, 2024, at 325 N. Terrace View Dr, Monrovia, California. 
On October 9,
2024, Defendant filed this motion to quash service of summons. The motion is
unopposed. 
Personal
service may be accomplished by personally delivering a copy of the summons and
complaint to the person to be served. 
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 415.10.) When a defendant moves to quash service
of summons, the plaintiff has “the burden of proving the facts that did give
the court jurisdiction, that is the facts requisite to an effective service.” (Coulston v. Cooper (1966) 245 Cal.App.2d
866, 868.)
Defendant argues that Plaintiff could
not have personally served him at the address listed on the proof of service because
he has been detained at Metropolitan Detention Center (“MDC”) since February
28, 2024. A copy of the pretrial detention order issued by United States Magistrate
Judge Jacqueline Chooljian is attached as Exhibit B to the motion. A copy of a
printout from www.bop.gov is attached as Exhibit C and shows that Defendant has an
unknown release date and is located at MDC.  
Plaintiff did not oppose this motion
and therefore failed to establish the facts required for effective service.
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 6th
day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 