  Case Number:  24VECV00763    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
Kourosh
  Izadpanahi,
 
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Nahid
  Hosseimzadeh Dolkhani, 
Defendant.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
          24VECV00763         107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: Demurrer with Motion to Strike 
                        



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:

1) Sustain without leave
to amend as to the res judicata defense; 
(2) Overrule as to the
collateral estoppel defense; 
(3) Sustain with leave
to amend as to the unclean hands defense.
 
I.               
BACKGROUND 
 
Plaintiff Kourosh Izadpanahi (“Plaintiff”) and
Defendant Nahid Hosseinzadeh Dolkhani (“Defendant”) married in 2004 and
divorced in 2021. (Second Amended Complaint [“SAC”] ¶ 8.) The
parties share custody of one minor child. (SAC ¶ 8.)
 
On February 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendant and Does 1 through 10, alleging causes of action
for: (1) intentional infliction of emotional distress; and (2) domestic
violence. On April 10, 2024, Defendant demurred to Plaintiff’s complaint.
(Demurrer filed 04/10/24.) This court sustained the demurrer with leave to
amend. (05/28/24 Minute Order p. 12.) 
 
On June 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first
amended complaint. On July 29, 2024, Plaintiff made an oral motion for leave to
amend the first amended complaint, which the court granted (07/29/24 Minute
Order.) 
 
On August 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed the
second amended complaint against Defendant and Does 1 through 30, alleging
causes of action for: (1) intentional interference with consortium; (2)
conspiracy to interfere with consortium; (3) domestic violence; (4) battery;
(5) assault; and (6) intentional infliction of emotional distress. (SAC p. 1.) 
 
On October 9, 2024, Defendant demurred to
Plaintiff’s second amended complaint. On November 4, 2024, this court overruled
the demurrer.
 
On November 15, 2024, Defendant filed an
answer to Plaintiff’s second amended complaint. 
 
On November 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
demurrer with motion to strike Defendant’s answer. No opposition has been
filed.
 
II.             
DEMURRER
 
a.    
Timeliness
 
“A party who has filed a complaint or cross-complaint may,
within 10 days after service of the answer to his pleading, demur to the
answer.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.40(b).)¿ The deadline is
extended by five calendar days if the answer being demurred to was served by
mail and the place of the address and the place of mailing is within
California.¿ (Code Civ. Proc. § 1013(a).)
 
Defendant filed the answer with this court on November 15,
2024, and served Plaintiff with the answer by mail that same day. (Answer pdf
p. 27.) Plaintiff filed the demurrer on November 19, 2024. Thus, the demurrer
was timely filed. 
 
b.    
Meet and Confer
 
California Code of Civil Procedure section¿430.41,
subdivision (a) requires parties to meet and confer before filing a demurrer to
attempt to informally resolve the objections raised in the demurrer.¿The
demurring party is required to file and serve with the demurrer a declaration
either confirming that parties were unable to resolve the issues raised by the
demurrer, despite having met and conferred, or that the opposing party failed
to meet and confer with the demurring party in good faith. (Code Civ. Proc.
§¿430.41(a)(3).) 
 
Plaintiff submits no declaration showing Plaintiff
met and conferred with Defendant prior to filing the demurrer.
 
However, “A determination by the court that
the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule
or sustain a demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc.
§¿430.41(a)(4).)
 
c.     
Legal Standard
 
Plaintiff may demur to an answer¿on the grounds¿that¿the
answer does not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense or the answer is
uncertain.¿¿(Code Civ. Proc.¿§¿430.20(a)-(b).)¿ “’[U]ncertain’ includes
ambiguous and unintelligible.” (Code Civ. Proc.¿§¿430.20(b).) Under¿Code of
Civil Procedure¿section 431.30, subdivision¿(g), every affirmative defense “. .
.¿shall be separately stated, and the several defenses shall refer to the
causes of action which they are intended to answer, in a manner by which they
may be intelligibly distinguished.”¿
 
“In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of
determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a
view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  
As a general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)
d.    
Discussion
 
Plaintiff argues Defendant’s affirmative
defenses fail to state sufficient facts to constitute defenses and are
uncertain. (Motion p. 3.)
 
1.    
Res Judicata
 
“’Res judicata’ describes the
preclusive effect of a final judgment on the merits” and “prevents relitigation
of the same cause of action in a second suit between the same parties or
parties in privity with them.” (Association of Irritated Residents v.
Department of Conservation (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 1202, 1218.) “[I]f a
plaintiff prevails in an action, the cause is merged into the judgment and may
not be asserted in a subsequent lawsuit; a judgment for the defendant serves as
a bar to further litigation of the same cause of action.”   (Id. at pp. 1218-1219.) The elements
of res judicata are: “(1) the decision in the prior proceeding is final and on
the merits; (2) the present proceeding is on the same cause of action as the
prior proceeding; and (3) the parties in the present proceeding or parties in
privity with them were parties to the prior proceeding.”  (Id. at p. 1219.) Put otherwise, res
judicata “arises if a second suit involves (1) the same cause of action (2)
between the same parties [or their privies] (3) after a final judgment on the
merits in the first suit.” (Id.)
 
“Given finite family law jurisdiction,
a tort action claiming damages cannot be joined with or pleaded in a
dissolution proceeding.” (Boblitt v. Boblitt (2010) 190 Cal.App.4th 603,
613.) Because a family court judge has “no power to award damages, [their]
refusal to do so has no preclusive effect.” (Id.)
 
In Boblitt v. Boblitt, supra,
190 Cal.App.4th at p. 606, the Court of Appeal held that the trial court
erred by granting judgment on the pleadings because the family court judgment
was not final, and a martial dissolution proceeding was “not based on the same
primary right as a tort action based on domestic violence[.]” The Court stated:

 
Because the same primary right does not underlie a request for
spousal support in a marital dissolution proceeding and a tort action for
damages, the doctrine of claim preclusion does not preclude a person from
offering evidence of domestic violence in connection with a request for spousal
support in a dissolution proceeding, then suing for damages for domestic
violence, or vice versa. Accordingly, a judgment in a dissolution proceeding
where claims of domestic violence were (or could have been) litigated with
relation to a claim for spousal support does not preclude a later tort action
for domestic violence.
 
(Id. at p. 613.)
 
Defendant asserts that all of
Plaintiff’s causes of action are barred by res judicata. (Answer p. 1.) Defendant
attaches two exhibits to the answer: (1) a judgment entering dissolution of the
marriage between Defendant and Plaintiff; and (2) a sanctions order from the
same case ordering Plaintiff to pay $10,705.00 in financial sanctions and
$900.00 in attorneys’ fees. (Ex. A; Ex. B.)
 
Defendant states that “Plaintiff made
all of these allegations in Family Court and Orders were made”, “there is
identity of parties or their privies between the prior and current lawsuits”
and “[a] final judgment on the merits in a prior action is attached.” (Answer pp.
2-3, 5-6, 8-9, 10-11, 13-14, 16-17.) Defendant further states that “[i]f a
prior lawsuit involved the same parties or their privies and the same issues,
and a final judgment was rendered on the merits, res judicata bars the
plaintiff from relitigating the IIED claim in the current action.” (See e.g., Answer
p. 3.)
 
The dissolution order references
entering a judgment of dissolution, child and family support, child custody and
visitation, property division, and attorneys’ fees. (Ex. A.) The order for
financial sanctions shows that the family court ordered Plaintiff to pay $10,705.00
in financial sanctions, and states that “[t]he court finds that the explanation
offered by [Plaintiff] to explain his failure to cooperate in the preparation
of the proposed judgment and other matters leading to delays in the case, which
made it necessary for [Defendant’s] counsel to spend additional time and to
seek additional court orders, is not credible on the issue.” (Ex. B.) However,
these orders are silent as to whether the family court resolved claims
involving intentional interference with consortium, conspiracy to interfere
with consortium, domestic violence, battery, assault, or intentional infliction
of emotional distress.  Finally, as noted
by the authority cited above, tort actions cannot be joined with or pleaded in
a dissolution proceeding and the family court has no authority to award damages
for tort actions.
 
Accordingly, Defendant has not
asserted facts sufficient to constitute a res judicata defense, and this court
sustains the demurrer on this ground.
 
2.    
Collateral Estoppel
 
“Collateral estoppel, or issue
preclusion, ‘precludes relitigation of issues argued and decided in prior
proceedings.”  (Boblitt v. Boblitt,
supra, 190 Cal.App.4th at p. 610.) “[A] judgment in a dissolution
proceeding where claims . . . were, in fact, litigated . . . may have
preclusive effect under the doctrine of issue preclusion, which
‘precludes relitigation of issues argued and decided in prior proceedings.” (Id.
at p. 614.) The party raising the defense must show “that the parties
litigated in the dissolution proceeding all of the allegations [the other
party] seeks to raise in the [present] case . . . or that [the judge] resolved
all of those allegations against [them].” (Id.)
 
Defendant asserts that all of
Plaintiff’s causes of action are barred by collateral estoppel. (Answer pp. 1,
4, 6, 9, 12, 14, 17.)
 
Defendant cites the standard for
collateral estoppel, asserts that the judgment was final, and asserts that
Plaintiff “made all of these allegations in Family Court and Orders were made.”
(Answer pp. 2, 4-6, 8-10, 12-14, 16-17.) Defendant further states that
“Plaintiff made all of these false allegations of being hurt and Defendant
Mother breaking his belongings during the divorce and it was already litigated.”
(Answer p. 1.) Defendant states “Plaintiff already made the allegations of
being verbally abused and belittled during the marriage, with the family court
finding no truth and granting the remedy of divorce. Plaintiff was sanctioned
extensively for his over litigiousness with extensive attorney fees sanctions.”
(Answer p. 1.) Finally, Defendant states that “All issues were decided and
adjudged in Family Court final orders.”
 
This court finds that Defendant’s
answer sufficiently raises the collateral estoppel defense and overrules the
demurrer on this ground.
 
This court further finds that
Defendant’s answer sufficiently acquaints Plaintiff with the nature, source,
and extent of Defendant’s collateral estoppel defense and overrules the
demurrer on the ground this defense is uncertain.
 
3.    
Unclean Hands
 
“Although the venerable unclean-hands
defense has been described in many iterations, courts have developed and now
consistently apply a ‘three-pronged test to determine the effect to be given to
the plaintiff’s unclean hands conduct. Whether the particular misconduct is a
bar to the alleged claim for relief depends on (1) analogous case law, (2) the
nature of the misconduct, and (3) the relationship of the misconduct to the
claimed injuries.” (Padideh v. Moradi (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 418,
426.)  “Any conduct that violates good
conscience, or good faith, or other equitable standards of conduct is
sufficient to invoke the doctrine.” (Id.) As to the third prong, the
conduct “must relate directly to the transaction concerning which the . . .
complaint is made. It must infect the cause of action involved and affect the
equitable relations between the litigants.” (Id.)
 
Defendant asserts that “Plaintiff lost
custody of his daughter due to his continuing behavior not in the best interest
of the minor and being obsessed with over litigating in multiple courts, rather
than investing his time and energy in re-unification with their daughter.”
(Answer p. 1.)
 
It is unclear to this court what wrongful acts
Defendant is asserting are attached to which causes of action. Defendant raises
the unclean hands doctrine at the beginning of the answer (Answer p.. 1.) and
states that each cause of action is barred by the unclean hands doctrine
(Answer pp. 5, 8, 11, 13, 16.) It is not clear to the court what alleged
wrongful conduct Defendant is asserting that might allow the unclean hands
doctrine to be applied to each cause of action. And this court fails to see how
any of the wrongful acts Defendant asserts Plaintiff engaged in directly relate
to the causes of action for domestic violence, battery, or assault.
Accordingly, this court finds that the unclean hands defense is uncertain and sustains
the demurrer as to this defense.
 
III.           
MOTION TO
STRIKE
 
Plaintiff states Plaintiff filed a
“Demurrer and Motion to Strike.” (Demurrer p. 2.) However, the motion Plaintiff
filed raises issues relating only to a demurrer. Defendant filed no separate
motion to strike.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff filed no motion
to strike for this court to consider.
 
IV.           
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
“A plaintiff against whom a demurrer is sustained
is entitled to leave to amend the defective complaint if [they] can ‘prove a
reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment.’” (Shaeffer
v. Califia Farms, LLC (2020) 44 Cal.App.5th 1125, 1145.) “The onus is on
the plaintiff to articulate the ‘specific ways’ to cure the identified
defect, and absent such an articulation, a trial . . . court may grant leave to
amend ‘only if a potentially effective amendment is both apparent and
consistent with the plaintiff’s theory of the case.’” (Id.) When a
Plaintiff fails to describe “what additional facts she would plead . . . [they]
ha[ve] not satisfied her burden of showing that [they] can amend the complaint
to cure its defects.” (Mohler v. County of Santa Clara (2023) 92
Cal.App.5th 418, 428.) 
 
Defendant submitted no opposition
showing Defendant can allege additional facts supporting the res judicata
defense. Further, a family court has no authority to award damages for tort
actions. (See Boblitt v. Boblitt (2010) 190 Cal.App.4th 603, 613.)  Accordingly, this court finds there is no
reasonable possibility that Defendant can successfully amend the res judicata affirmative
defense.
 
This court finds a reasonable
probability Defendant can cure the defects relating to the unclean hands
affirmative defense and grants Defendant leave to amend that defense.
 
V.             
CONCLUSION
 
For
the foregoing reasons, this court sustains Plaintiff’s demurrer as to
Defendant’s res judicata defense without leave to amend. This court overrules
the demurrer as to Defendant’s collateral estoppel defense. Finally, this court
sustains the demurrer as to Defendant’s unclean hands defense with leave to
amend.
 
 
 
Dated:  December
11, 2024                                                             _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                              Hon.
Eric Harmon
                                                                                                        Judge of the Superior Court