 Case Number:  24VECV02322    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
Orlando
  Garcia,
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
6000
  Reseda Blvd, LLC, et al.
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
  24VECV02322    107




 
 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:       
 
MOTION
  TO STRIKE 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:
 
 
Grant motion, in part, with leave
to amend.

I.               
BACKGROUND¿ 
 
On
January 9, 2024, Plaintiff Orlando Garcia (“Plaintiff”) visited Syndicate
Outfitters (the “Store”) and discovered the Store’s door handles and
transaction counters were not compliant with the American with Disabilities Act
(“ADA”). (Complaint ¶¶ 4, 10, 14-15.) Defendant Reseda Blvd, LLC owns the
property where the Store is located. (Complaint ¶ 3.) 
 
On
May 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants 6000 Reseda Blvd,
LLC, The Syndicate Apparel Store, Inc., and Does 1 through 50, alleging two
causes of action for: (1) violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act; and (2)
violation of the California Disabled Persons Act. 
 
On
September 30, 2024, Defendants 6000 Reseda Blvd, LLC and The Syndicate Apparel
Store, Inc. (“Defendants”) filed a motion to strike (the “Motion”). On November
27, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On December 4, 2024, Defendants filed
a reply.
 
II.            
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
Defendants
request this court take judicial notice of legislative history relating to the
Unruh Civil Rights Act (“UCRA”) and Disabled Persons Act (“DPA”) and various
amendments to the UCRA and DPA. (Request for Judicial Notice pp. 1-2.)
 
“Legislative
committee reports and analyses, including statements pertaining to the bill’s
purpose, are properly the subject of judicial notice.” (People v. Superior
Court (Ferguson) (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1532.) “Also appropriate for
judicial notice are prior versions of a bill as well as analyses of such
earlier versions, which shed light on how the Legislature arrived at the
ultimately enacted statute.” (Id.)
 
This
court grants Defendants’ request and takes judicial notice of Defendants’ Exhibits
1 through 7.
 
III.          
PROCEDURAL
MATTERS¿ 
¿ 
A. Timeliness of Filings¿ 
¿ 
Per California
Code of Civil Procedure section¿435, subdivision (b)(1), a motion to
strike should be filed within 30 days after service of the complaint. (See also
Code Civ. Proc., § 412.20(a)(3).)  
 
Per California
Code of Civil Procedure section¿1005, subdivision (b), moving papers
should be filed at least 16 court days before they are set for hearing,
oppositions thereto should be filed at least nine court days before the set
hearing, and replies to any oppositions should be filed at least five court
days before the set hearing. Judges have discretion to consider untimely
pleadings.¿ (McAllister v. County of Monterey (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
253, 281-282.)
 
On August 29, 2024, the parties entered a
stipulation agreeing to set aside default and allow Defendants to file a
responsive pleading within thirty (30) days. (Joint Stipulation filed
09/05/24.) Defendants timely filed the Motion on September 30, 2024. 
 
Defendants timely filed the Motion more
than 16 court days before the hearing. Defendants also timely filed the reply five
court days before the hearing. 
 
Plaintiff filed the opposition on
November 27, 2024. Nine court days before the hearing was November 26, 2024. Thus,
Plaintiff’s opposition was untimely. Defendants argue Plaintiff’s failure to
timely file the opposition hampered Defendants’ ability to respond. (Reply p. 2.)
This court exercises its discretion and considers the opposition.
 
B. The Meet & Confer Requirement¿ 
¿ 
California Code of Civil
Procedure §¿435.5, subdivision (a) requires parties to “meet and confer” before
the filing of a motion to strike to attempt to informally resolve the
objections raised in the motion to strike.  
 
Defendants’
counsel submits a declaration showing they satisfied the meet and confer
requirement. (Mohammadi Declaration ¶¶ 1-6.)
 ¿
IV.          
LEGAL
STANDARD¿ 
¿ 
The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike “any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).) The court may also strike” all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).) The
grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way
of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc. §¿437(a).)¿ 
 
V.             
DISCUSSION
¿ 
Defendants
move to strike Plaintiff’s request for injunctive relief under the UCRA which
seeks to compel Defendants: (1) “to remove all presently existing architectural
barriers”; (2) to “obtain biennial Certified Access Specialist (“CASP”)
architectural inspections of the subject facility to verify on-going ADA compliance
and follow those inspection’s recommendations of all readily achievable barrier
removal”; (3) to implement “accessibility policies and requiring annual
employee training on providing full and equal access to clients or customers
with disabilities”; and (4) to prohibit “Defendants from violating the
provisions of the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Unruh Civil Rights
Act.” (Motion p. 2.) Defendants argue Plaintiff’s prayer for injunctive relief
is improper because the UCRA does not allow a Plaintiff to seek “affirmative
relief compelling defendant to remediate property.” (Motion p. 8.)
 
Plaintiff
alleges two causes of action in the complaint: (1) violation of the UCRA; and
(2) violation of the California DPA. (Complaint pp. 6-7.) However, in a
footnote to Plaintiff’s prayer for relief, Plaintiff states: “Plaintiff is not
invoking Section 55 of the California Civil Code and is not seeking injunctive
relief under the [DPA] at all.” (Complaint p. 8 fn. 2.) Accordingly, if
Plaintiff is entitled to injunctive relief, it must be authorized under the
UCRA.
 
Defendants
bring Thurston v. Midvale Corp. (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 634, 636, to this
court’s attention, but argue it did not address the issue raised in this case. (Motion
p. 19.) This court agrees.  
 
In Thurston
v. Midvale Corp., supra, 39 Cal.App.5th at p. 638, 655, the trial court
granted an injunction requiring the defendant to redesign its website. On
appeal, the Court of Appeal considered “whether title III of the ADA applie[d]
to th[e] website.” (Id. at p. 636.) The Court held that “including
websites connected to a physical place of public accommodation is not only
consistent with the plain language of Title III, but it is also consistent with
Congress’s mandate that the ADA keep pace with changing technology to
effectuate the intent of the statute.” (Id. at p. 644.) The Court also stated:

 
Appellant has not cited
any cases discussing the requirements for an injunction under the Unruh Civil
Rights Act and suggests no such case exists. If that is true, appellant makes
no argument for what those requirements should be: appellant does not discuss
the language, legislative intent or purpose of the Unruh Civil Rights Act
or Civil Code section 52, which authorizes “any person
aggrieved” to seek an injunction. (Id., subd. (c).) . . . Appellant's only
reference to section 52 takes a short phrase
out of context. Appellant argues that “preventative relief cannot be ‘deemed
necessary’ to ensure [Thurston] is afforded a right of access” to the
restaurant. In fact, the language of section 52, subdivision (c)(3) authorizes
a complainant to seek preventative relief “as the complainant deems necessary
to ensure the full enjoyment of the rights described in this section.”7 Thus, appellant has failed to demonstrate error. 
 
(Id.
at p. 652.) Accordingly, Thurston did not address whether the UCRA
authorizes an injunction requiring a party to take affirmative action.
 
The
parties cite no other published cases discussing whether a plaintiff may seek an
injunction requiring defendants take affirmative actions under the UCRA, and
this court has found none. Accordingly, this court considers the statutory
language.
 
Statutory
interpretation “begin[s] [with] examining the statute’s words, giving them a
plain and commonsense meaning.” (People v. Thompson (2024) 106 Cal.App.5th
101, 112.) “If the language is clear and unambiguous there is no need for
construction, and [the court need not] resort to indicia of the intent of the
Legislature.” (Id.) “If there is no ambiguity in the language, [the
court] presume[s] the Legislature meant what it said and the plain meaning of
the statute governs.” (Id.)
 
Civil
Code section 52 contains the remedies that are authorized under the UCRA. Subdivision
(c) states that Plaintiffs may seek:
 
A request for preventive
relief, including an application for a permanent or temporary injunction,
restraining order, or other order against the person or persons responsible for
the conduct, as the complainant deems necessary to ensure the full enjoyment of
the rights described in this section.
 
 
(Civ.
Code § 52(c).)
 
Section
52 does not define “preventive relief.”  However, the Civil Code title referencing specific
and preventative relief states: “Preventive relief is given by prohibiting a party from doing
that which ought not to be done.”  (Civ. Code § 3368.) Similarly., in Ohaver
v. Fenech (1928) 206 Cal.118, 122, the California Supreme Court stated, “As
a general rule, we think we may say that when the injunction merely grants
preventative relief it is prohibitive, but when it directly or directly grants
affirmative relief it is mandatory.” And, in Davenport v. Blue Cross (1997)
52 Cal.App.4th 435, 446, the Court stated: “[A]n injunction is prohibitory if
it requires a person to refrain from a particular act and mandatory if it
compels performance of an affirmative act that changes the position of the
parties.”
 
“[A]bsent
indications to the contrary, ‘a word or phrase . . . accorded a particular
meaning in one part or portion of the law, should be accorded the same meaning
in other parts or portions of the law.” (North American Title Company v.
Superior Court of Fresno County (2024) 17 Cal.5th 155, 590.)   Thus,
with no indication to the contrary, this court presumes that the term
“preventive relief” in section 52 should be accorded the same meaning as other
portions of the Civil Code and prior judicial decisions. Accordingly, Civil
Code section 52, subdivision (c) authorizes only injunctions that prohibits a
party from doing that which ought not to be done and does not authorize relief
requiring a party take affirmative action.
 
This
conclusion is also supported by other portions of the UCRA. Subdivision (g) of Civil
Code section 52, states that:
 
This section does not
require any construction, alteration, repair, structural or otherwise, or
modification of any sort whatsoever, beyond that construction, alteration,
repair, or modification that is otherwise required by other provisions of law,
to any new or existing establishment, facility, building, improvement, or any
other structure, nor does this section augment, restrict, or alter in any way
the authority of the State Architect to require construction, alteration,
repair, or modifications that the State Architect otherwise possesses pursuant
to other laws.
 
Further,
the general UCRA statute, Civil Code section 51, subdivision (d), states that:
 
Nothing in this section
shall be construed to require any construction, alteration, repair, structural
or otherwise, or modification of any sort whatsoever, beyond that construction,
alteration, repair, or modification that is otherwise required by other
provisions of law, to any new or existing establishment, facility, building,
improvement, or any other structure, nor shall anything in this section be
construed to augment, restrict, or alter in any way the authority of the State
Architect to require construction, alteration, repair, or modifications that
the State Architect otherwise possesses pursuant to other laws.
 
Accordingly,
by its plain language, the UCRA does not require modifications to existing
establishments.
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff raises various arguments. 
 
Plaintiff
argues Plaintiff sufficiently plead the causes of action in the complaint.
(Opposition pp. 3-8.) Defendants are only challenging the prayer for injunctive
relief and have not argued that Plaintiff failed to sufficiently plead the
causes of action. Thus, this court does not address this argument.
 
Plaintiff
argues the request for injunctive relief is proper because it is “based on
other provisions of law.” (Opposition pp. 8-9.) Plaintiff cites portions of the
ADA and federal regulations and argues that “[s]ince Plaintiff’s prayer of
modifications, if any, are derived from the ADA standards and Federal
Regulations, which will squarely fall under the category of ‘other provisions
of law’ mentioned in [Civil Code] Sections 51(d) and 52(g) . . . Plaintiff’s
prayers are . . . well within the scope of Sections § 52(c)(3).” (Opposition p.
9.)
 
However,
section 52, subdivision (c) only authorizes preventive relief. And, based on
the language cited above, preventive relief does not require a party take
affirmative action.  In contrast, Civil
Code section 55 does not limit the injunctive relief to “preventive” but rather
states: “Any person who is aggrieved or potentially aggrieved by a violation
of Section 54 or 54.1 of this code, Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 4450) of Division 5 of Title 1 of the Government Code, or
Part 5.5 (commencing with Section 19955) of Division 13 of the Health and
Safety Code may bring an action to enjoin the violation. The prevailing party
in the action shall be entitled to recover reasonable attorney's fees.”
(Emphasis added.) Thus, the legislature limited injunctive relief to
“preventive injunctions” in section 52 but did not similarly limit section 55. However,
Plaintiff explicitly states they are not invoking section 55 to seek injunctive
relief. (Complaint p. 8 fn. 8.) Defendants suggest Plaintiff is not seeking
relief under section 55 because Defendants would then be entitled to attorneys’
fees under that section if Defendants prevail. (Reply p. 2.) Moreover,
Plaintiff has not asserted a cause of action under the ADA.
 
Plaintiff
also argues he is “not seeking mandatory injunctive relief, but rather seeks
relief that ensures the full enjoyment of their rights under the Act.”
(Opposition p. 9.) However, “[t]he substance of the injunction, not the form,
determines whether it is mandatory or prohibitory.” (Davenport v. Blue Cross,
supra, 52 Cal.App.4th at p. 447.) In Davenport, Blue Cross argued the
preliminary injunction was mandatory because it “required Blue Cross to perform
affirmative acts of authorizing and paying for the treatment, thereby changing
the status quo” while “Plaintiff argue[d] it was merely a prohibitory
injunction because it enjoined Blue Cross from persisting in an anticipatory
breach of its contract, which threatened plaintiff’s ‘very existence,’ and her
health was the ‘status quo’ which required preservation.” (Id.) The
Court agreed with Blue Cross’ interpretation because “[t]he injunction plainly
ordered Blue Cross to perform affirmative acts which would change the position
of the parties, by compelling Blue Cross to authorize and pay for plaintiff’s
treatment.” (Id.)
 
Plaintiff
is seeking to compel Defendants to remove “all presently existing architectural
barriers”, to “obtain biennial Certified Access Specialist (‘CASp’)
architectural inspections”, and to implement accessibility policies and annual
employee training. (Complaint Prayer p. 8.) Like Davenport, these
requests would require Defendants take affirmative action. 
 
However,
this court finds that the Plaintiff’s prayer for relief seeking to prohibit
“Defendants from violating the provisions of the Americans with Disabilities
Act and the Unruh Civil Rights Act” could be interpreted as “prohibiting a
party from doing that which ought not to be done.”  (Civ. Code § 3368.) Accordingly, this court
declines to strike that provision from the complaint.
 
Next,
Plaintiff argues that the relief is “consistent with the statute’s purpose of
preventing future harm” and “even if for the sake of an argument we consider
the prayed injunctions as ‘mandatory,’ the Unruh Act does not restrict
injunctive relief to prohibitory forms, allowing courts the discretion to issue
mandatory injunctions when appropriate.” (Opposition p. 10.) 
 
Plaintiff
cites no authority supporting these arguments and this court finds they are
meritless. The UCRA “’must be construed liberally in order to carry out its
purpose’ to ‘create and preserve a nondiscriminatory environment in California
business establishments by “banishing” or “eradicating” arbitrary, invidious
discrimination by such establishments.” (Munson v. Del Taco, Inc. (2009)
46 Cal.4th 661, 666.) However, “[t]his court has no power to rewrite the
statute so as to make it conform to a presumed intention which is not
expressed.” (California Teachers Assn. v. Governing Bd. Of Rialto Unified
School District (1997) 14 Cal.4th 627, 633.) The UCRA specifies the relief
available. (See Civ. Code § 52.) This court cannot rewrite the statute to
provide for additional forms of relief not authorized by the UCRA.
 
Finally,
Plaintiff argues that a motion to strike is inappropriate “the complaint is
well-pleaded and warrants a decision on [the] merits.” (Opposition p. 10.)
Plaintiff further argues that Defendants have not shown the allegations are
“irrelevant, false, or improper” or “not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Opposition p.
10.)
 
This
court disagrees. Motions to strike are used to challenge prayers for relief
that are not authorized under the complaint’s allegations, such as punitive
damages. (See (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164 [“The
adequacy of the punitive damages allegations, could, however, have ben tested
by a motion to strike.”]) 
 
Thus, injunctions
requiring a party to take affirmative action are not available under the UCRA. 
 
VI.          
LEAVE
TO AMEND
 
“Where the defect raised
by a motion to strike or by demurrer is reasonably capable of cure, ‘leave to
amend is routinely and liberally granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure
the defect in question.’” (CLD Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004)
120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)¿
 
This
court finds there is a reasonable possibility Plaintiff can cure the defect and
grants Plaintiff leave to amend the complaint.
 
VII.        
RECLASSIFICATION
 
Defendants
state that should be Motion be granted, “the only remaining claim for relief
will be damages in an amount less than the jurisdictional limit of this Court”
and “[t]he case should then be transferred to limited jurisdiction.” (Motion p.
20.) 
 
This
court granted Plaintiff leave to amend the complaint. Thus, reclassification is
premature.
 
VIII.     
CONCLUSION 
 
For
the foregoing reasons, this court grants the Motion to strike the prayer for
relief seeking to compel Defendants to remove “all presently existing
architectural barriers”, to “obtain biennial Certified Access Specialist
(‘CASp’) architectural inspections”, and to implement accessibility policies
and annual employee training. (Complaint Prayer p. 8.) 
 
This
court denies the Motion to strike the prayer for relief seeking to prohibit
“Defendants from violating the provisions of the Americans with Disabilities
Act and the Unruh Civil Rights Act.” (Complaint Prayer p. 8.)
 
Finally,
this court grants Plaintiff leave to amend the complaint. 
 
 
Dated:  December 11, 2024                                                                 _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                             Judge of the Superior
Court