 Case Number:  24STCV04861    Hearing Date:   August 5, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




rachel edward

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
bevmo! inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


24STCV04861




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


August
   5, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
defendant’s motion to compel arbitration and
  stay or dismiss proceedings
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant BevMo! Inc.          
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Rachel Edward
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay or Dismiss Proceedings
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
The court rules on plaintiff
Rachel Edwards’s evidentiary objections, filed on July 24, 2024, as follows:
Objections Nos. 1-6 are
overruled.
The court rules on defendant
BevMo! Inc.’s evidentiary objections, filed on July 29, 2024, as follows:
Objection No. 1 is overruled.
 
 
DISCUSSION
Defendant BevMo! Inc. (“Defendant”) moves the court for an order (1)
compelling plaintiff Rachel Edward (“Plaintiff”) to submit all the claims
alleged in her Complaint to binding arbitration, and (2) dismissing, or,
alternatively, staying this action pending completion of arbitration. 
1.     Applicability
of Federal Arbitration Act
As a threshold matter, the court finds that Defendant has met
its burden to show—and Plaintiff does not dispute—that the Federal Arbitration
Act (9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq.) (the “FAA”) governs this motion.  (Evenskaas v. California Transit, Inc. (2022)
81 Cal.App.5th 285, 292 [“The party asserting the FAA applies to an agreement
has ‘the burden to demonstrate FAA coverage by declarations and other
evidence’”] [internal citation omitted].)
“‘The FAA’s basic coverage provision, section 2, makes the FAA
applicable to contracts “evidencing a transaction involving commerce.”  (9 U.S.C. § 2.)  Courts broadly construe section 2 to “provide
for the enforcement of arbitration agreements within the full reach of the
Commerce Clause.”  [Citation.]  “Accordingly, in most cases, the FAA mandates
arbitration when contracts involving interstate commerce contain arbitration
provisions.” ’  [Citations.]”  (Mendoza v. Trans Valley Transport
(2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 748, 761-762; 9 U.S.C. § 2 [“A written provision in . . .
a contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce” to arbitrate a
controversy shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such
grounds as exist at law or in equity for revocation of any contract].)  “The United States Supreme Court has
identified ‘three categories of activity that Congress may regulate under its
commerce power: (1) “the use of the channels of interstate commerce”; (2) “the
instrumentalities of interstate commerce, or persons or things in interstate
commerce, . . .”; and (3) “those activities having a substantial relation to
interstate commerce, . . . i.e., those activities that substantially affect
interstate commerce.” ’  [Citations.]”  (Evenskaas, supra, 81
Cal.App.5th at p. 293.)
Defendant has submitted evidence establishing that (1) it owns and
operates stores in California, Arizona, and Washington, (2) it sells products
that that come from various states in the United States and internationally,
and (3) it conducts business through its website, which allows it to sell
products to customers in all 50 states. 
(LePage Decl., ¶ 2.)  Thus, Defendant
has shown that it is involved in interstate commerce.  While Defendant did not submit evidence of
Plaintiff’s job duties, Plaintiff has submitted her declaration, in which she
states that, during her employment with Defendant, her primary duties included
working with inventory, ensuring information in the computers was updated,
receiving new shipments, and working with vendors.  (Edward Decl., ¶ 2.) 
Based on the evidence presented by the parties in connection with this
motion, the court finds that (1) Defendant is involved in activities that
substantially affect interstate commerce,   (2) Plaintiff, in performing her job duties
while working for Defendant, was involved in those activities (e.g., by working
with inventory delivered from other states and internationally, receiving
shipments of those goods, etc.), such that (3) the parties’ arbitration
agreement is a contract involving interstate commerce and is therefore governed
by the FAA.  (Mendoza, supra,
75 Cal.App.5th at pp. 761-762; 9 U.S.C. § 2.) 
2.     Existence
of Written Agreement to Arbitrate
The
FAA requires courts to direct parties to proceed to arbitration on issues
covered by an arbitration agreement upon a finding that the making of the
arbitration agreement is not in issue.¿ (9 U.S.C. § 4; Chiron Corp. v. Ortho
Diagnostic Sys. (9th Cir. 2000) 207 F.3d 1126, 1130.)¿ “The court’s role
under the [FAA] is therefore limited to determining (1) whether a valid
agreement to arbitrate exists and, if it does, (2) whether the agreement
encompasses the dispute at issue.”¿ (Chiron Corp., supra, 207 F.3d
at p. 1130.)¿ The FAA reflects “both a ‘liberal federal policy favoring
arbitration,’ [citation], and the ‘fundamental principle that arbitration is a
matter of contract,’ [citation].”¿ (AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion
(2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.)¿¿¿¿ 
“‘
“The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the
existence of an arbitration agreement, while the party opposing the petition
bears the burden of establishing a defense to the agreement’s enforcement.” ’”¿
(Beco v. Fast Auto Loans (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 292, 302.)¿ To determine
the existence of an arbitration agreement, the court uses “a three-step
burden-shifting process.”  (Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 747, 755.)  “The arbitration proponent must first recite
verbatim, or provide a copy of, the alleged agreement.  [Citations.] 
A movant can bear this initial burden ‘by attaching a copy of the arbitration
agreement purportedly bearing the opposing party’s signature.’”  (Ibid.
[internal citations omitted].)  “If the movant bears its initial burden,
the burden shifts to the party opposing arbitration to identify a factual
dispute as to the agreement’s existence . . . .”  (Ibid.)  If
the opposing party meets its burden to “submit sufficient evidence to create a
factual dispute” as to the existence of the agreement, the burden shifts back
to the arbitration proponent, who retains the ultimate burden of proving its
existence by a preponderance of the evidence.  (Ibid.; Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165-166.) 
First, the
court finds that Defendant has met its initial burden to attach a copy
of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear Plaintiff’s signature.  (Iyere, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th
at p. 755.)  Defendant has submitted the
“Arbitration and Class Action Waiver (‘Agreement’)” (the “Arbitration
Agreement”) dated November 21, 2019 and bearing the printed name of
Plaintiff.  (LePage Decl., Ex. 1,
Arbitration Agreement.)  The Arbitration
Agreement provides that “[a]ny legally-cognizable controversy or claim arising
out of or relating to [the employee’s] employment or termination of employment
(including any post-termination claim) that cannot be resolved between the
parties themselves, shall on the written request of either party, be submitted
and resolved by final and binding arbitration consistent with the Federal
Arbitration Act, the California Arbitration Act, or their successors.”  (LePage Decl., Ex. 1, Arbitration Agreement,
p. 1.)  The Arbitration Agreement further
provides that covered claims include those “pertaining to wrongful or
constructive discharge, personal injuries or other civil wrongs, violations of
public policies or anti-discrimination statutes.”  (Ibid.)  Excluded from the scope of the Arbitration
Agreement are claims for workers’ compensation benefits and unemployment
insurance benefits.  (Ibid.)  Thus, the court finds that Defendant has met
its initial burden to attach a copy of an arbitration agreement
purportedly bearing Plaintiff’s electronic signature. 
Second, the
court finds that Plaintiff has not met her burden to identify a factual dispute
as to the Arbitration Agreement’s existence or the authenticity of her
signature.  (Iyere, supra,
87 Cal.App.5th at p. 755.)  Plaintiff has
submitted her declaration, in which she states that, while she was instructed
to complete several forms as a condition of her employment, she does not recall
signing forms regarding arbitration. 
(Edward Decl., ¶ 4.)  However, she
does not dispute that she did sign various forms as instructed by Defendant.  (Edward Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.)  The court finds that the sole statement in
her declaration stating that she does not recall signing the Arbitration
Agreement is insufficient to create a factual dispute about the authenticity of
her signature.  (Iyere, supra,
87 Cal.App.5th at p. 755.) 
Third, even
if Plaintiff had met her burden to identify a factual dispute as to the
authenticity of her electronic signature, the court finds that Defendant has
met its ultimate burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, the
authenticity of Plaintiff’s signature and the Arbitration Agreement.  (Iyere, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th
at p. 755.)  
Here, the
Arbitration Agreement bears Plaintiff’s electronic signature.  (LePage Decl., Ex. 1, p. 2.)  An electronic signature “is attributable to a
person if it was the act of the person. 
The act of the person may be shown in any manner, including a showing of
the efficacy of any security procedure applied to determine the person to which
the electronic record or electronic signature was attributable.”  (Civ. Code, § 1633.9, subd. (a).)  “For example, a party may establish that the
electronic signature was ‘the act of the person’ by presenting evidence that a
unique login and password known only to that person was required to affix the
electronic signature, along with evidence detailing the procedures the person
had to follow to electronically sign the document and the accompanying safety
precautions.”  (Bannister v.
Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 545.) 
Defendant
has submitted the declaration of its Director, People & Culture, Lyndsey
LePage, who has access to, inter alia, personnel files, including
Plaintiff’s personnel file.  (LePage
Decl., ¶¶ 2, 4, 11.)  LePage has
described the onboarding process in November 2019 (i.e., at the time that
Plaintiff signed the Arbitration Agreement) as follows.  (LePage Decl., ¶ 6.)  Prior to the start of their employment with
Defendant, prospective employees were electronically provided with a number of
onboarding documents, including the Employee Handbook and an arbitration
agreement.  (LePage Decl., ¶ 6.)  The onboarding process was conducted using an
online website, which was initiated when Defendant sent each prospective
employee an email to the personal email address identified on the prospective
employee’s application.  (LePage Decl., ¶
7.)  
The email
contained a unique hyperlink that directed the prospective employee to
Defendant’s onboarding site, which expired several days after receipt of the
email.  (Ibid.)  Prospective employees then logged into the
website using their full legal name and the last four digits of their Social
Security numbers.  (LePage Decl., ¶ 8.)  Once logged in, the prospective employee was
presented with a screen (1) requiring the employee to consent to electronically
completion of the onboarding documents, and (2) informing the employee that
their “click” was a stand-in for their written signature.  (LePage Decl., ¶ 9.)  Prospective employees were required to
consent to the e-signature agreement described above in order to proceed with
the onboarding documents.  (Ibid.)
 Thereafter, the prospective employee was
presented with a screen to view specific onboarding documents, including the
Arbitration Agreement.  (LePage Decl., ¶
10.)  To sign the Arbitration Agreement
and have the employee’s signature recorded and date-stamped, a prospective
employee must have viewed the document, closed the pop-up window, and clicked
the separate link to sign the agreement. 
(Ibid.) 
Thus, the
court finds that Defendant has shown that, in order for Plaintiff’s electronic
signature to appear on the Arbitration Agreement, Plaintiff would have had to
complete the procedure set forth above, including by opening the unique
hyperlink to access the onboarding site and logging on with unique
information.  The court therefore finds
that Defendant has met its burden of producing prima facie evidence of the
existence of an agreement to arbitrate. 
(Iyere, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 755; Bannister,
supra, 64 Cal.App.5th  at p. 545.)
The court
further finds that the Arbitration Agreement encompasses the claims alleged in
the Complaint because (1) it extends to claims “arising out of or relating to
[Plaintiff’s] employment or termination of employment” with Defendant, and (2)
Plaintiff’s causes of action arise out of the sexual harassment committed
against her while working for Defendant.  (LePage Decl., Ex. 1, Arbitration Agreement,
p. 1; Compl., ¶¶ 13, 36, 57, 79, 98, 112-113.)
Thus, the
court finds that there exists an agreement to arbitrate this controversy
between Plaintiff and Defendant.
3.     Ending
Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021
The
Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021
(9 U.S.C. §§ 401, 402) (the “EFAA”), enacted on March 3, 2022, “voids
predispute arbitration clauses in cases . . . involving sexual harassment
allegations.”  (Murrey v. Superior Court (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th
1223, 1230.)  Under the EFAA, “at the
election of the person alleging conduct constituting a sexual harassment
dispute or sexual assault dispute . . . , no predispute arbitration agreement
or predispute joint-action waiver shall be valid or enforceable with respect to
a case which is filed under Federal, Tribal, or State law and relates to the
sexual assault dispute or the sexual harassment dispute.”  (9 U.S.C. §
402, subd. (a).)
The
court finds that Plaintiff has met her burden to show that the
Arbitration Agreement is a predispute arbitration agreement relating to a
sexual harassment dispute and is therefore invalid and unenforceable under the
EFAA.  (9 U.S.C., § 402, subd. (a).) 
As
a threshold matter, the parties do not appear to dispute that Plaintiff has
alleged, in support of each cause of action, claims constituting sexual
harassment.  The court finds that this
action constitutes a case “relat[ing] to the sexual assault dispute or the
sexual harassment dispute” within the scope of the EFAA.  (Compl., ¶¶ 13, 36, 57, 79, 98-99, 113-114;
(9 U.S.C., § 402, subd. (a).)  Instead, Defendant has argued, and Plaintiff
has disputed, that the EFAA does not apply to Plaintiff’s claims because they
“accrued prior to the enactment of the act.” 
(Mot., p. 9:22-24.)  The court
disagrees.  
The
parties agree that the EFAA applies “‘with respect to any dispute or claim that
arises or accrues on or after the date of enactment of this Act.’”  (Kader v. Southern California Medical
Center, Inc. (2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 214, 222 [quoting statutory note Pub.L.
No. 117-90, § 3].) 
Thus,
the EFAA applies to any sexual harassment dispute or claim arising or accruing
after the March 3, 2022.  (Id. at
pp. 219 [“The [EFAA] became effective on March 3, 2022], 222.)  Defendant contends that, because the conduct
underlying the sexual harassment dispute occurred until August 2021,
Plaintiff’s claims fall outside of the scope of the EFAA.  (Compl., ¶¶ 12-13; Mot., p. 9:22-24; Reply,
p. 2:12-15 [“All alleged conduct occurred prior to the act’s effective date of
March 3, 2022”].)  However, that is not
the correct standard by which to determine the date of a sexual harassment dispute
under this statute; while “the date that a dispute has arisen for purposes of
the [EFAA] depends on the unique facts of each case,” “a dispute does not arise
merely from the fact of injury.”  (Kader,
supra, 99 Cal.App.5th at p. 217.) 
Instead, “[a] dispute arises when one party asserts a right, claim, or
demand, and the other side expresses disagreement or takes an adversarial
posture.  [Citation.]  In other words, ‘[a] dispute cannot arise
until both sides have expressed their disagreement, either through words or
actions.’”  (Id. at pp. 222-223
[internal citation omitted].)  This is
further supported by the EFAA’s defining of a sexual assault dispute to mean “a
dispute relating to conduct that is alleged to constitute sexual
harassment under applicable” law.  (9
U.S.C., § 401, subd. (4) [emphasis added]; Kader, supra, 99
Cal.App.5th at p. 223-224.) 
Thus, although the conduct constituting sexual harassment was alleged
to have taken place beginning in 2020, and presumably concluding in 2021 upon Plaintiff’s
constructive termination, those dates do not constitute the accrual of a sexual
harassment dispute under the EFAA as the parties contend.  (Compl., ¶¶ 12-13.)  Defendant did not present other argument or
authority establishing that the sexual harassment dispute that is the basis of
Plaintiff’s Complaint arose at any other time before March 3, 2022, instead
contending that, because the sexual harassment occurred before that date,
Plaintiff may not elect to invalidate the Arbitration Agreement under the EFAA.  However, it appears to the court that the
earliest date on which the sexual harassment dispute had arisen was January 18,
2024, i.e., the date on which Plaintiff filed charges against Defendant with
the Civil Rights Department.[1]  (Compl., Ex. A, p. 1 [stating “Date Filed:
January 18, 2024”]; Kader, supra, 99 Cal.App.5th at p. 224
[finding there was no assertion of right, claim, or demand prior to filing
charges with the Department of Fair Employment and Housing].)  Thus, the sexual harassment dispute appeared
to arise no earlier than January 18, 2024, i.e., after the date of enactment of
the EFAA.  (Kader, supra,
99 Cal.App.5th at p. 219, 222.)
Thus, the court finds that (1) the parties have not established that
the sexual harassment dispute arose earlier than January 18, 2024, i.e., the
date on which Plaintiff lodged her administrative complaint; (2) the parties
executed the Arbitration Agreement before that date, on November 21, 2019; and
(3) the sexual harassment dispute arose after the date that the EFAA was
enacted (March 3, 2022) and therefore invalidates the predispute agreement to
arbitrate the sexual harassment dispute set forth in the parties’ Arbitration
Agreement.  (Compl., Ex. A; LePage Decl.,
Ex. 1, Arbitration Agreement, p. 2; Kader, supra, 99 Cal.App.5th
at p. 224 [“[t]he trial court properly concluded that the [EFAA] applies,
because the arbitration agreement was executed before the dispute arose between
the parties”]; 9 U.S.C., § 402, subd. (a).) 

For the reasons set forth above, the court finds that the Arbitration
Agreement is invalid and unenforceable and therefore denies Defendant’s
motion.  (9 U.S.C., § 402, subd. (a).)  In light of this finding, the court does not
reach Plaintiff’s arguments regarding the alleged unconscionability of the
Arbitration Agreement. 
ORDER
            The court denies defendant BevMo!
Inc.’s motion to compel arbitration and stay or dismiss proceedings. 
            The court orders that the stay of
this case issued in the court’s May 10, 2024 minute order is lifted.  
            The court orders plaintiff Rachel
Edward to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
DATED:  August 5, 2024
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


