 Case Number:  23STCV11307    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  76 Pursuant to California Rule of Court
3.1308(a)(1), the Court does not desire oral argument on the motion addressed
herein.  Counsel must contact the staff
in Department 76 to inform the Court whether they wish to submit on the
tentative, or to argue the matter.  As
required by Rule 3.1308(a), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL
OTHER PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 of their intent to appear and
argue. 
Notice to Department 76 may be sent by email to
smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically at 213-830-0776. 
Per Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention
to appear is not given, the Court may adopt the tentative ruling as the final
ruling.This is a
dispute over ownership of church property. Plaintiffs allege the church property
was conveyed by Defendant Lazell L. Rodgers without church authority. Defendants
Blackgem and USC Capital allegedly encumbered the property with a loan.
Defendant
Lazell L. Rodgers demurs to the First Amended Complaint and moves to strike portions
thereof.
TENTATIVE RULING 
Defendant
Lazell L. Rodgers’ demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend. 
Given the
ruling on the demurrer, the motion to strike is MOOT. 
            The case is hereby ordered dismissed with prejudice.
ANALYSIS
Demurrer 
Request
For Judicial Notice
            Defendant’s request that the Court
take judicial notice of the Complaint and Amended Complaint filed in this action
is GRANTED per Evid. Code, § 452(d)(court records).
Meet
and Confer 
            The Declaration of Arpine Khachikyayn
reflects that Plaintiff did not respond in good faith to meet and confer
efforts. This satisfies Civ. Proc. Code, § 430.41(a)(3)(B).
Discussion
Defendant
Lazell L. Rodgers demurs to the First Amended Complaint as follows:
1.         First Cause
of Action (Fraud)—Page 33 of 1AC.
A.        Re: Lack of
Standing. 
“A litigant's standing to sue is a threshold
issue to be resolved before the matter can be reached on the merits.
[Citation.]” (Blumhorst v. Jewish Family Services of Los Angeles (2005) 126
Cal.App.4th 993, 1000 [24 Cal. Rptr. 3d 474].) Because elements for standing
“are not mere pleading requirements but rather an indispensable part of the
plaintiff's case, each element must be supported in the same way as any other
matter on which the plaintiff bears the burden of proof, i.e., with the manner
and degree of evidence required at the successive stages of the litigation.
[Citations.]” (Citation omitted.) . . .

“Because standing goes to the existence of a
cause of action, lack of standing may be raised by demurrer or at any time in
the proceeding, including at trial or in an appeal. [Citations.]” (Citations
omitted.)

(Troyk v. Farmers Group, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1345.)
(a) The provisions of Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 5410) of
Part 2 apply to religious corporations except for subdivision (b) of
Section 5420 [liability of person receiving distributions].
 
(b) Suit may be brought in the name of the corporation by a creditor,
a director, or the authorized number of members. In any such action in addition to the remedy provided in
subdivision (a) of Section 5420, the court may award punitive damages for the
benefit of the corporation against any director, officer, member or other
person who with intent to defraud the corporation caused, received or aided and
abetted in the making of any distribution. 
     (Corp. Code § 9610 [bold emphasis added].)
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs are not members of Normandie
Community Worship Center and have no standing to bring derivative actions under
Corp. Code, § 5710 which provides:
(b) No action may be
instituted or maintained in the right of any corporation by any member of such
corporation unless both of the following conditions exist:
 
(1) The plaintiff alleges in
the complaint that plaintiff was a member at the time of the transaction
or any part thereof of which plaintiff complains; and
 
(2) The plaintiff alleges in
the complaint with particularity plaintiff’s efforts to secure from the board
such action as plaintiff desires, or the reasons for not making such effort,
and alleges further that plaintiff has either informed the corporation or the
board in writing of the ultimate facts of each cause of action against each
defendant or delivered to the corporation or the board a true copy of the
complaint which plaintiff proposes to file. 
     (Corp. Code § 5710(b)[bold emphasis added].)
            As Defendant points out, the Bylaws
of Normandie Community Worship Center, attached as Exhibit 10 to the First
Amended Complaint, do not provide for any members.
            Corp. Code, § 5056 provides that a “member”
must be identified as such in the corporation’s articles or bylaws: 
(a) “Member” means any person who, pursuant to a specific provision
of a corporation’s articles or bylaws, has the right to vote for the
election of a director or directors or on a disposition of all or substantially
all of the assets of a corporation or on a merger or on a dissolution unless
the provision granting such right to vote is only effective as a result of
paragraph (2) of subdivision (a) of Section 7132. “Member” also means any
person who is designated in the articles or bylaws as a member and, pursuant
to a specific provision of a corporation’s articles or bylaws, has the right to
vote on changes to the articles or bylaws.
 
(b) The articles or bylaws may confer some or all of the rights of a
member, set forth in this part and in Parts 2 through 5 of this division, upon
any person or persons who do not have any of the voting rights referred to in
subdivision (a).
 
(c) Where a member of a corporation is not a natural person, such
member may authorize in writing one or more natural persons to vote on its
behalf on any or all matters which may require a vote of the members.
 
(d) A person is not a member by virtue of any of the following:
 
(1) Any rights such person has as a delegate.
 
(2) Any rights such person has to designate or select a director or
directors.
 
(3) Any rights such person has as a director.
     (Corp. Code § 5056.)
            Corp. Code, § 9310 provides:
(a) A corporation may admit persons to membership, as provided in its
articles or bylaws, or may provide in its articles or bylaws that it shall
have no members. In the absence of any provision in its articles or bylaws
providing for members, a corporation shall have no members.
 
(b) Subject to the articles or bylaws, in the case of a corporation
which has no members:
 
(1) Any action for which there is no specific provision of this part
applicable to a corporation which has no members and which would otherwise
require approval by a majority of all members (Section 5033) or approval by the
members (Section 5034) shall require only approval of the board.
 
(2) All rights which would otherwise vest under this part in the members
shall vest in the directors.
 
(c) Reference in this part to a corporation which has no members
includes a corporation in which the directors are the only members.

     (Corp.
Code § 9310 [bold emphasis added].)
            Here, the Bylaws do not provide for
any members, but instead vest the powers in the Board of Trustee and in the
directors. (Bylaws, Sections 2 – 16.) None of the named Plaintiffs appear to be
on the Board of Trustee or a director. (See Bylaws, Pages 1, 17.)
“[F]acts appearing
in exhibits attached to the complaint will also be accepted as true and, if
contrary to the allegations in the pleading, will be given precedence.
(Citation omitted.)” (Dodd v. Citizens Bank of Costa Mesa (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1624, 1627.) As such,
the allegations at ¶¶ 1 – 7 of the 1AC that Plaintiffs are “members” of Normandie
Community Worship Center must give way to the above facts appearing in the
exhibits, when construed with Corp. Code §§ 5056 and 9310, that Normandie Community Worship Center has no
members. There are no allegations that Plaintiffs are members of the Board. 
 As such, Plaintiffs cannot
allege standing under Corp. Code, § 5710(b) to assert derivative claims on
behalf of Normandie Community Worship Center. To the extent this is asserted as
a derivative claim, Plaintiffs lack standing to assert it.
B.        Re: Failure
To Allege Reliance and Actual Damages.
“To establish a claim for deceit
based on intentional misrepresentation, the plaintiff must prove seven
essential elements: (1) the defendant represented to the plaintiff that an
important fact was true; (2) that representation was false; (3) the defendant
knew that the representation was false when the defendant made it, or the
defendant made the representation recklessly and without regard for its truth;
(4) the defendant intended that the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5)
the plaintiff reasonably relied on the
representation; (6) the plaintiff was harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's
reliance on the defendant's representation was a substantial factor in causing
that harm to the plaintiff. (Citations omitted.)” (Manderville v. PCG&S Group,
Inc. (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th
1486, 1498 [italics omitted].) 
Here, Plaintiffs have not alleged
that they personally relied upon a misrepresentation by Defendant, nor that
they suffered damages as a result of Defendant’s alleged fraud. There can be no
reliance on a representation to which Plaintiffs were never exposed: 
The problem with plaintiffs' argument,
as the trial court recognized, is that the record is devoid of evidence showing
reliance. “It is settled that a plaintiff, to state a cause of action for
deceit based on a misrepresentation, must [prove] that he or she actually
relied on the misrepresentation.” (Mirkin v. Wasserman (1993) 5 Cal.4th 1082,
1088 [23 Cal. Rptr. 2d 101, 858 P.2d 568].) 
 
(Burch v. CertainTeed Corp. (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 341, 353.) 
At most, Plaintiffs allege they
suffered emotional distress after finding out that Defendant lied about the ownership
of church property. However, this does not suffice for a deceit claim, because
Plaintiffs do not allege they relied upon Defendant’s misrepresentation in
parting with property. 
This ground for demurrer is persuasive
as to the individual claim.
The demurrer to the first cause of action
is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
2.         Second Cause
of Action (Breach of Fiduciary Duty)—1AC, Page 38. 
            A.        Re: Lack of Standing.           
To the extent that this cause of action is asserted on a
derivative basis, this ground for demurrer is persuasive for the reasons discussed
above re: the first cause of action.
            B.        Re: No Fiduciary Relationship. 
            “The
elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty are the existence of
a fiduciary relationship, breach of fiduciary duty, and damages.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 820.)
            There are
no facts pled which give rise to a fiduciary duty owed by Defendant Lazell L.
Rodgers to the individual Plaintiffs personally with regard to their property. Defendant
Lazell L. Rodgers is alleged to be a member and pastor of Normandie Community Worship
Church, C.O.G.I.C. (1AC, ¶ 7.) While case law has recognized a confidential
relation exists between priest and parishioner, this extends to dealings between
the two which would constitute undue influence affecting transactions between
them:
 
Confidential relations are presumed to exist between priest and
parishioner, principal and agent, counsel and client, and in each of said
relations the party in whom the confidence is reposed must stand in his dealings
with the other party unimpeached of the slightest abuse of the confidence
reposed, and if he derives or claims any advantage from the relation the law
places upon him the burden of showing that the transaction out of which the
advantage arose was fair and just and fully understood and consented to by
the party confiding in him. (Bacon v. Soule, 19 Cal.
App. 428, 434 [126 P. 384].)
 
" That the influence which the spiritual adviser of one
who is about to die has over such person is one of the most powerful that can
be exercised upon the human mind, especially if such mind is impaired by
physical weakness, is so consonant with human experience as to need no more
than its statement; and in any transaction between them
wherein the adviser receives any advantage, a court of equity will not enter
into an investigation of the extent to which such influence
has been exercised. Any dealing between them under such circumstances will be
set aside as contrary to all principles of equity, whether the benefit accrue
to the adviser or to some other recipient who, through such influence, may have
been made the beneficiary of the transaction." (Italics ours.) ( Ross v. Conway,
92 Cal. 632, 636 [28 P. 785].)
 
The testimony
in this case shows that the respondent in whom a confidence was reposed by the
deceased used such confidence for the purpose of obtaining an unfair advantage
over the deceased. This constitutes undue influence. ( Sec. 1575, Civ.
Code.)
 
 [*153]   As before pointed out, there is no
evidence showing any intention on the part of the deceased to make respondent a
gift of the property in controversy. The intent to make a gift is an essential
element to constitute a gift. (Cal. Jur., vol. 13, p. 36; Hotaling v. Hotaling,
193 Cal. 368 [224 P. 455, 56 A. L. R. 734

(In re Estate of Miller (1936) 16 Cal.App.2d
141, 152-153.)
            Here, Defendant
is not alleged to have exercised undue influence in connection with a transaction
with the Plaintiffs regarding their property (as opposed to church property).
            To the extent
this is an individual cause of action, this ground for demurrer is persuasive.
            The
demurrer to the second cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to
amend.
4.         Third
Cause of Action (Conversion)—1AC, Page 40. 
            A.        Re: Lack of Standing.
This cause of action does not specify that it is being
asserted on a derivative basis. However, to the extent that it is, this ground
for demurrer is persuasive for the reasons discussed above re: the first cause
of action.
            B.        Re: Failure to Allege Elements.
“Conversion is the wrongful exercise of
dominion over the property of another.” (Oakdale Village Group v. Fong (1996)
43 Cal.App.4th 539, 543 [50 Cal. Rptr. 2d 810].) Proof of conversion requires a
showing of ownership or right to possession of the property at the time of the
conversion, the defendant's conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of
property rights, and resulting damages. (Id. at pp. 543–544; Burlesci v.
Petersen (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 1062, 1066 [80 Cal. Rptr. 2d 704].) “Money can
be the subject of an action for conversion if a specific sum capable of
identification is involved.” (Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Zerin (1997) 53
Cal.App.4th 445, 452 [61 Cal. Rptr. 2d 707].)


(Avidor v. Sutter's Place, Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1439, 1452.)
To the extent this is an
individual/direct action, Plaintiffs do not plead that they have a right to any
sums converted. Moreover, real property cannot be the subject of conversion. “The tort of conversion applies to personal property, not real property.
(Citation omitted.)” (Salma v. Capon (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1275, 1295.) 
The demurrer to the third cause of
action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
5.         Fourth
Cause of Action (Constructive Fraud)—1AC, Page 42. 
            A.        Re: Lack of Standing. 
This cause of action does not specify that it is being
asserted on a derivative basis. However, to the extent that it is, this ground
for demurrer is persuasive for the reasons discussed above re: the first cause
of action.
            B.        Re: Failure To Allege Reliance and
Actual Damages. 
As for constructive fraud, the
complaint fails to plead facts establishing the requisite fiduciary or special
confidential relationship between plaintiff and defendant. (Citations omitted
[*961].) And even assuming plaintiff could overcome the standing hurdle, fraud causes
of action must be pleaded with specificity, meaning “(1) general pleading of
the legal conclusion of fraud is insufficient; and (2) every element of the
cause of action for fraud must be alleged in full, factually and specifically,
and the policy of liberal construction of pleading will not usually be invoked
to sustain a pleading that is defective in any material respect.” (Citation omitted.)
Plaintiff's complaint utterly fails the specificity test, not because she is an
inartful pleader, but because those facts that are well pleaded necessarily
negate the existence of the facts supporting the requisite elements of fraud.
 
(Schauer
v. Mandarin Gems of Cal., Inc. (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 949, 960-61.)
            As noted
above, there are no facts pled which give rise to a fiduciary or confidential
relationship between Defendant Lazell L. Rodgers and the individual Plaintiffs
personally with respect to property they (as opposed to the church) owned. 
            To the extent
this is an individual cause of action, this ground for demurrer is persuasive.
            The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to
amend.
5.         Fifth Cause of Action (Accounting).
            A.        Re: Lack of Standing. 
This cause of action does not specify that it is being
asserted on a derivative basis. However, to the extent that it is, this ground
for demurrer is persuasive for the reasons discussed above re: the first cause
of action. 
To the extent this is an individual/direct claim, the
specific statutory section giving Plaintiffs an individual right to an accounting
is not specified. ¶ 79 of the 1AC cites the Bylaws and Corporation Code § 9110.
However, nothing in the Bylaws gives Plaintiffs—who are not identified in the
Bylaws—a right to an accounting. Corp. Code, § 9110 simply states: “This part shall be known and may be
cited as the Nonprofit Religious Corporation Law.” Corp. Code, § 9512 provides
the right to an accounting only be a “member.”
Except as
otherwise provided in the articles or bylaws, the accounting books and records and minutes of proceedings of the
members and the board and committees of the board shall be open to inspection
upon the written demand on the corporation of any member at any reasonable
time, for a purpose reasonably related to such person’s interests as a member.
     (Corp
Code § 9512.)
The demurrer to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend. 
Motion To
Strike           
Given the
ruling on the demurrer, the motion to strike is MOOT. 
The case is
hereby ordered dismissed with prejudice.