 Case Number:  21STCV42538    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


December
  6, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV42538




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Defendant’s Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Delbert Webb 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Ann Migyom Kim 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            On November 18, 2021, Plaintiff Delbert
Webb (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendants Ann Migyom Kim, The Hertz
Corporation, and Does 1 to 50 for injuries related to a motor vehicle accident.
 
            Plaintiff
now moves to compel Defendant Ann Migyom Kim’s (Defendant) deposition. Plaintiff
seeks monetary sanctions. Defendant opposes.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion
under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion
is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of that party
unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the sanction unjust.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Tal Hassid indicates he has attempted to schedule
Defendant’s deposition but that Defendant has not provided any potential dates.
After receiving Defendant’s October 5, 2023 objection, Plaintiff requested a
meet and confer. However, Defendant failed to provide an alternative date.
(Hassid Decl. ¶ 10–11.) Therefore, the Court finds the meet and confer
requirement has been met.   
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff asserts that he has noticed Defendant’s deposition three
times and Defendant has failed to appear. The depositions were set for June 1,
2022, July 13, 2023 and October 11, 2023. For the most recent deposition,
Defendant sent an objection on October 5, 2023 on the grounds that the
deposition was unilaterally set and Defendant and Defendant’s counsel were
unavailable. (Hassid Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. F.) Each deposition has received the same
objection and Plaintiff contends Defendant has not proposed any available
dates. (Id. ¶ 5–8.)  As a result,
Plaintiff has noticed the depositions unilaterally. Defendant failed to appear
at the October 11, 2023 deposition. (Id. ¶ 11, Exh. I.) 
 
In opposition, Defendant argues the objections were timely and proper,
and thus a motion to compel cannot be granted. However, Defendant does not set
forth any facts that she has attempted to set a date in good faith.  
 
Therefore, based on this pattern, Defendant’s objection, though
timely, is not valid if she fails to provide alternative dates or pursue the
deposition in good faith. As a result, since Defendant failed to appear for
deposition on June 1, 2022, July 13, 2023, and October 11, 2023, the motion is
granted. 
 
Plaintiff seeks $3,906.15 in monetary sanctions representing a $400
hourly rate for four hours to prepare the motion, two hours to reply, one hour
to appear at the hearing, and one hour appearing at the depositions. This
amount also includes the $61.65 filing fee for this motion, and $644.50 for the
court reporter fee at the October 11, 2023 deposition. (Hassid Decl. ¶ 2.) The
Court finds sanctions are warranted but that the amount is excessive given the
type of motion at issue and that an objection was served. Therefore, the Court
awards $661.65 in monetary sanctions (1.5 hours of attorney time to file and
appear at hearing, plus the filing fee) against Defendant. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant Ann
Migyom Kim’s deposition. Defendant shall appear for deposition within 15 days. 
 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant and
her attorney of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced amount of $661.65. Said monetary
sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of the date of
this order. 
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice and file proof of service of such. 
 