  Case Number:  19STCV41530    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


December
  6, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


19STCV41530




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Vacate Dismissal




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Bethanne Packerd




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed



 
BACKGROUND
 
On November 19, 2019, Plaintiff Bethanne Packerd (Plaintiff) filed a
complaint against Defendants Rodolfo Martinez and Does 1 to 50 for injuries
resulting from a motor vehicle/ pedestrian accident. On December 8, 2021,
Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (FAC). 
 
On September 16, 2022, after numerous orders to show cause, the Court
held an OSC Re: Dismissal for Failure to Enter Default/ alternatively trial
setting conference. Counsel for Plaintiff did not appear and the Court
dismissed the FAC without prejudice. (Min. Order, 9/16/22.) 
 
On March 14, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion to vacate the dismissal
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b). 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(b), the Court may relieve a party from a
dismissal taken against him through his mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.  This application must
be filed no more than six months after entry of the order from which relief is
sought, and must contain an affidavit of fault demonstrating the moving party’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
 
A mistake
is a basis for relief under section 473 when by reason of the mistake a party
failed to make a timely response.  Surprise occurs when a party is
unexpectedly placed in a position to his injury without any negligence of his
own. Excusable neglect is a basis for relief when the party has shown some
reasonable excuse for the default.  (Credit Managers Association of
California v. National Independent Business Alliance (1984) 162 Cal.App.3d
1166, 1173; Davis v. Thayer (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 892, 905.)  Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, the moving party bears the burden of
demonstrating an excusable ground, such as fraud or mistake, justifying a
court’s vacating a judgment.  (Basinger v. Roger & Wells (1990)
220 Cal.App.3d 16, 23–24.)   
 
Relief under
this section is mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault;
otherwise, it is discretionary. (Id.) However mandatory relief is only
available when a party fails to oppose a dismissal motion (“which are
procedurally equivalent to a default”). (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc. (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 603, 620.) The mandatory relief provision
does not apply to dismissals for “failure to prosecute [citations omitted], dismissals
for failure to serve a complaint within three years [citations omitted],
dismissals based on running of the statute of limitations [citations omitted],
and voluntary dismissals entered pursuant to settlement [citations omitted].”
(Id.) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Procedurally,
the present motion is timely because it was filed just within six months after
the case was dismissed.  
 
            Here, the
declaration of Patrick Khalil (Counsel) states that due to an inadvertent
calendaring error in his office, Counsel failed to appear at the September 16,
2022 order to show cause hearing. (Khalil Decl. ¶ 14.) Counsel also details his
previous appearances and attempts to litigate this case. (Id. ¶ 4–14.)  Counsel seeks to enter default and obtain a
court judgment against Defendant in this case.  (Id. ¶ 16.) 
 
            Counsel
argues that “Counsel for Plaintiff has truly pushed to prosecute this matter.”
(Khalil Dec. ¶ 14.) While the Court questions this assertion in light of the
numerous orders to show cause, the age of the case, and the delay in filing
this motion, the Court finds that a calendaring error does constitute excusable
neglect. (Nilsson v. City of Los Angeles (1967) 249 Cal.App.2d 976,
980.) Accordingly, the Court grants the motion to set aside the dismissal.
 
            However,
the Court admonishes counsel for Plaintiff that default must be properly
entered by the next court date. (See Cal. R. Ct. 3.110(g) [“If a responsive
pleading is not served within the time limits specified in this rule and no
extension of time has been granted, the plaintiff must file a request for entry
of default within 10 days after the time for service has elapsed. The court may
issue an order to show cause why sanctions should not be imposed if the
plaintiff fails to timely file the request for the entry of default]; Cal. R.
Ct. 3.110(h) [When a default is entered, the party who requested the entry of
default must obtain a default judgment against the defaulting party within 45
days after the default, unless the court has granted an extension of time. The
court may issue an order to show cause why sanctions should not be imposed if
that party fails to obtain entry of judgment against a defaulting party or to
request an extension of time to apply for a default judgment within that
time.”].) NO FURTHER EXTENSIONS WILL BE GRANTED ABSENT GOOD CAUSE.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to vacate the dismissal.  
 
The Court sets the matter for an Order to Show Cause Re: Dismissal Failure
to Enter Default/ alternatively trial setting conference for February 6, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street
Courthouse.
 
            Plaintiff
shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.