 Case Number:  21STCV36211    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


December
  6, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV36211




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant GetAround, Inc. 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Xochitl Alvarez Espindola 



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Notice of Motion and Motion for Summary
Judgment; Memorandum of Points and Authorities
2.      Separate Statement of Undisputed Material
Facts
3.      Separate Bound Volume of Evidence in Support 
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
1.      Plaintiff’s Opposition; Memorandum of Points
and Authorities
2.      Plaintiff’s Separate Statement in Opposition
3.      Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections
4.      Plaintiff’s Separate Bound Volume of Evidence
in Support 
 
REPLY PAPERS 
1.      Reply in support of Motion for Summary
Judgment
2.      Objection to Plaintiff’s Evidence
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 1, 2021, Plaintiff
Xochitl Alvarez Espindola (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Defendants GetAround,
Inc., Luke Mitchell Crawford, and Does 1 to 50 for negligence, negligence per
se, and statutory liability surrounding a motor vehicle accident. On January
15, 2021, Plaintiff alleges she was injured in a motor vehicle accident by
Defendant Luke Mitchell Crawford (Crawford), who was driving a vehicle procured
through a rideshare program operated by Moving Defendant GetAround, Inc.
(GetAround). 
 
GetAround now moves for summary
judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication. GetAround argues it is
in the business of renting vehicles, and thus not vicariously liable through
the Federal Graves Amendment. It also argues it did not own or control the
subject vehicle and is not liable for negligence entrustment. Plaintiff opposes.

 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden
of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material
fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to
find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”¿(Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) “A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) ¿“[T]he
party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make
a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material
fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the
opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a
prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line with Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has
no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no
triable issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay
Cruise Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.) 
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore
consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could
reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner,
the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify issues
rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the
trial court grant summary judgment based
on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840 [cleaned up];
see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9
Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or summary
adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the light
most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences in
favor of that party”].)            
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The Court declines to address the evidentiary objections because they
do not affect the ruling herein. 
 
DISCUSSION
Negligence and
Negligent Entrustment 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) 
Generally, “one who places or entrusts his [or her]
motor vehicle in the hands of one whom he [or she] knows, or from the
circumstances is charged with knowing, is incompetent or unfit to drive, may be
held liable for an injury inflicted by the use made thereof by that driver,
provided the plaintiff can establish that the injury complained of was
proximately caused by the driver's disqualification, incompetency, inexperience
or recklessness.” (Flores v. Enterprise Rent-A-Car Co. (2010) 188
Cal.App.4th 1055, 1063 [quoting Osborn v. Hertz Corp. (1988) 205
Cal.App.3d 703, 708] [alteration in original; citation omitted].) However, “a rental
car agency is not liable for negligent entrustment where the agency has fully
complied with the requirements of [Vehicle Code] sections 14604 and 14608, and
the customer does not appear impaired or otherwise unfit to drive at the time
of rental.” (Flores, supra, 188 Cal.App.4th at 1070.) 
Vehicle Code Section 14608 provides
that a “person shall not rent a motor vehicle to another person unless both of
the following requirements have been met: (1) The person to whom the vehicle is
rented is licensed under this code or is a nonresident who is licensed under
the laws of the state or country of his or her residence. (2) The person
renting to another person has inspected the driver’s license of the person to
whom the vehicle is to be rented and compared either the signature thereon with
that of the person to whom the vehicle is to be rented or the photograph
thereon with the person to whom the vehicle is to be rented.” (Cal. Veh. Code §
14608 (a).)
Vehicle Code Section 14604 provides
that “[n]o owner of a motor vehicle may knowingly allow another person to drive
the vehicle upon a highway unless the owner determines that the person
possesses a valid driver’s license that authorizes the person to operate the
vehicle. …” (Cal. Veh. Code § 14604(a).) “A rental company is deemed to be in
compliance with subdivision (a) if the company rents the vehicle in accordance
with Sections 14608 and 14609.” (Cal. Veh. Code § 14604(b).)
Additionally, Insurance Code section
11580.24, subdivision (d), provides: “Notwithstanding any other provision of
law or any provision in a private passenger motor vehicle owner's automobile
insurance policy, in the event of a loss or injury that occurs during any time
period when the vehicle is under the operation and control of a person, other
than the vehicle owner, pursuant to a personal vehicle sharing program, or
otherwise under the control of a personal vehicle sharing program, the personal
vehicle sharing program shall assume all liability of the owner and shall be
considered the owner of the vehicle for all purposes. Nothing in this section
limits the liability of the personal vehicle sharing program for its acts or
omissions that result in injury to any persons as a result of the use or
operation of a personal vehicle sharing program.”  Under this section, “ ‘Personal
vehicle sharing program’ means a legal entity qualified to do business in the
State of California engaged in the business of facilitating the sharing of
private passenger vehicles for noncommercial use by individuals within the
state.” (Ins. Code, § 11580.24(b)(2).) 
The Graves Amendment provides in pertinent part:
“An owner
of a motor vehicle that rents or leases the vehicle to a person … shall not be
liable under the law of any State … by reason of being the owner of the vehicle
… for harm to persons or property that results or arises out of the use,
operation, or possession of the vehicle during the period of the rental or
lease, if— 
(1) the
owner . . . is engaged in the trade or business of renting or leasing motor
vehicles; and 
(2) there
is no negligence or criminal wrongdoing on the part of the owner (or an
affiliate of the owner)”
 
(49 U.S.C.
§30106 (a) [emphasis added].)
            There do not appear to be California
authorities on whether “negligence,” as defined in the Graves Amendment,
encompasses negligent entrustment, which itself is a form of vicarious
liability. The Court finds Carton v. General Motors Acceptance Corp.
(8th Cir. 2010) 611 F.3d 451 to be instructive. There, applying the rules of
statutory construction to the Graves Amendment, the court found “no statutory
basis for narrowing the definition of the broad term ‘negligence’ or giving it
any definition other than its ordinary meaning.” (Id. at 458.) The Court
concludes that the Graves Amendment does not preempt a negligent entrustment
claim.
Here, it is undisputed that GetAround operates a car sharing
program that allows private automobile owners to rent their personal vehicles
to potential renters for compensation. GetAround takes a commission for this
service. (UMF 1.) Vehicles can be rented using the GetAround App. (UMF 2.) 
The following are also undisputed:
-         
On or about March 11, 2019, Defendant Luke
Mitchell Crawford (“Crawford”) began the sign-up process, Crawford was required
to pass a driving record check, which Crawford passed on March 14, 2019, which
also confirmed Crawford possessed a valid driver’s license. (UMF 5.) 
-         
On January 15, 2021, Crawford booked a trip on
the Getaround platform, and successfully rented a 2013 Ford F-150, California
license plate number 8TPD368 (the “Vehicle”). (UMF 7.) 
-         
The Vehicle had previously been boarded onto the
Getaround platform on July 10, 2020, and was one of the vehicles that Getaround
had authority to book for rental via the Getaround platform. The vehicle had a
Connect device installed, and could be remotely accessed via the Connect device
and Getaround App. (UMF 8.)
-         
As part of that rental, Getaround kept a record
of the registration number of the motor vehicle rented, the name and address of
the person to whom the vehicle was rented, his driver’s license number, the
jurisdiction that issued the driver’s license, and the expiration date of the
driver’s license. (UMF 10.) 
-         
At the time of the collision, Crawford was
driving the Vehicle during the rental period. (UMF 14.)
The parties dispute whether the Graves Amendment
applies to Getaround. However, even if it did apply to Getaround, by its terms
the Graves Amendment does not apply unless there is no negligence on the part
of the owner. Here, Getaround has not established the absence of a triable
issue of fact regarding the negligent entrustment claim under its theory that
it is a rental car company. Accordingly, the Court does not reach the question
of whether Getaround falls within the protection of the Graves Amendment.
As set forth above, Vehicle Code Section
14608 requires that the driver’s license be inspected and the signature
verified. (Flores, supra, 188 Cal.App.4th at 1069.) In addition, a
rental car agency may be liable for negligently entrusting a car to an
unlicensed driver and for entrusting a car “to a customer known to the agency
to be intoxicated at the time of the rental.” (Osborn, supra, 205
Cal.App.3d at 709.) Accordingly, a rental car agency is not liable for
negligent entrustment as a matter of law where the agency has both fully
complied with the requirements of Vehicle Code sections 14604 and 14608 “and
the customer does not appear impaired or otherwise unfit to drive at the time
of rental.” (Flores, supra, 188 Cal.App.4th at 1070 [emphasis added];
see also Lindstrom v. Hertz Corp. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 644, 649 [“In
addition to its statutory duty, a rental car company has a duty not to rent a
car to a person who appears to be mentally or physically impaired or shows
other signs of incompetence at the time the vehicle is rented”].) Here,
Getaround does not set forth undisputed facts that it verified Crawford’s
signature or that Crawford did not appear otherwise unfit to drive at the time
of rental. Accordingly, Getaround has not met its initial burden.[1]
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant GetAround, Inc.’s Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication is DENIED.
 
            Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling and file a proof of service of such. 
 
 


