 Case Number:  20STCV16659    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


December
  6, 2023




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV16659




MOTIONS:  


Petitions
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Rogelia Berrera




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
by Petitioner Rogelia Berrera (Petitioner) on behalf of Claimant A.B. The Court denies the petitions without
prejudice. 
 
Petitioner has attached medical reports that support that
Claimant has recovered completely. 
 
Claimant’s attorney seeks to be reimbursed for $14,850,
which represents 33% of the gross settlement. The Court finds this to be a reasonable
amount. However, Petitioner did not attach a copy of the retainer agreement in
attachment 17a. 
 
Petitioner seeks $3,794.63 in costs to be reimbursed from
the proceeds. Petitioner must attach an itemized ledger of these costs. 
 
If Claimant is the only person receiving a settlement,
Petitioner must select item 11a. 
 
Petitioner requests the proceeds to be placed in a
blocked account (item 18b(2)). Therefore, Petitioner must file and complete
form MC-355 Order to Deposit Funds in Blocked Account. 
Based on the reimbursements requested, Claimant’s net
amount is $24,255.37.
However, the net amount in item 18b(2) ($26,455.37) does
not match the net amount in item 16f or item 8b of the MC-351.
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.
     