 Case Number:  21STCV30921    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian
Department 27
Tentative Ruling
 
Hearing Date:           4/12/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name.:      21STCV30821 JUSTIN FREEMAN vs
JAIME MOLINA
Motion:                    MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL 
Moving Party:           Plaintiff’s Counsel Timothy M.
Ghobrial
Responding Party:    Unopposed
Notice:                     Sufficient
 
Ruling:                     MOTION TO BE RELIEVED IS GRANTED.
 
Background
 
Timothy M. Ghobrial represents Plaintiff
Christopher Gonzalez. Ghobrial moves to be relieved as counsel,
citing considerable difference of opinion regarding handling of the case
leading to an irremediable breakdown in the attorney-client relationship.
 
Legal Standard
 
The Court has discretion to allow
an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be granted provided that
there is no prejudice to the client and it does not disrupt the orderly process
of justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915; People
v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398, 403-407.)
¿
A motion to be relieved as counsel
must be made on Judicial Council Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion),
MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).) The requisite forms must be served “on the
client and on all parties that have appeared in the case.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1362, subd. (d).)
¿
Analysis and Conclusion
¿
Ghobrial has filed
Judicial Council Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052
(Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order). Ghobrial seeks to be
relieved as counsel for Plaintiff on the grounds that there has been a
breakdown in the attorney-client relationship. The Court finds this to be
proper grounds for withdrawal. (See Estate of Falco (1987) 188
Cal.App.3d 1004, 1014 (a breakdown in the attorney-client relationship is
grounds for allowing the attorney to withdraw).) Although Ghobrial has not
confirmed that Plaintiff's mailing address is current, counsel has made
reasonable efforts to do so.  
Specifically, he used TransUnion’s database to search for Plaintiff
using identifying information he had obtained from Plaintiff.  TransUnion returned two possible addresses,
one of which is the address Ghobrial has for Plaintiff.  Ghobrial provided notice of his motion to both
addresses. 
 
The Court notes that the next
hearing is an FSC set for 7/22/24, which should be sufficient time for Plaintiff to
retain new counsel. Alternatively, if Plaintiff or new counsel need additional
time to prepare for trial, sufficient time exists for Plaintiff to take action
to seek a continuance of the trial. Based on the foregoing, the Court
GRANTS the Motion to be Relieved, effective upon Notice on Plaintiff.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.