 Case Number:  22STCV03517    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian
Department 27
Tentative
Ruling
¿ 
Hearing Date:                4/12/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:          22STCV03517 JUAN MANUEL CORTES VALENCIA, ET AL vs LONG BEACH ICE
INC.
Motion:                              MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
Moving Party:                 Defendant Fleet Lease
Responding Party:      Plaintiffs
Notice:                                Sufficient
 
Ruling:                               MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS DENIED.
 
Background


On
January 27, 2022, Plaintiffs filed the current case, alleging that they were
rear-ended by a truck driven by Defendant Toribio Olivares Cervantes, who was
under the employment of Defendant Long Beach Ice at the time of the incident.
Defendant Fleet Lease had leased various trucks to Long Beach Ice, including
the one involved in the incident. Fleet Lease now seeks summary judgment
against Plaintiffs under the Graves Amendment, which shields lessors from
liability for damages resulting from the use of a leased vehicle, provided that
the lessor itself was not negligent. Plaintiffs contend that Fleet Lease
negligently maintained the truck, particularly the brakes, which prevented
Defendant Cervantes from stopping in time, leading to the collision with
Plaintiffs.
 
Evidentiary Objection
 
Defendant’s objections Nos. 1 and 3 are sustained;
no. 5 sustained in part and overruled in part (overruled re last 2 sentences re
tires); nos. 2 and 4 are overruled. The parties did not make any other objections to evidence that was
material to Court’s ruling on the Motion for Summary Judgment. (CCP §
437c(q).)
 
Legal
Standard
 
In
reviewing a motion for summary judgment, courts must apply a three-step
analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine
whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine
whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material
factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)
 
 “[T]he
initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facia showing that
there are no triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log
Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving
for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of
showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or
more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there
is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).)  A moving defendant need not conclusively negate an element
of plaintiff’s cause of action.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)
 
To
meet this burden of showing a cause of action cannot be established, a
defendant must show not only “that the plaintiff does not possess needed
evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed
evidence.” (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.) It is
insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the absence of
evidence.  (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.) 
The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”  (Ibid.)¿ The supporting
evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.)
 
“Once
the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . .
. to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the
cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).)  The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials of
its pleadings to show a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead,
“shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to the cause of action.”  (Ibid.)  “If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v.
Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
Analysis
 
Under
the Graves Amendment, an owner of a motor vehicle that rents or leases the
vehicle shall not be liable under the law of any state, by reason of being the
owner of the vehicle, for harm to persons or property that results or arises
out of the use, operation, or possession of the vehicle during the period of the
rental or lease, if: (1) the owner is engaged in the trade or business of
renting or leasing motor vehicles; and (2) there is no negligence or criminal
wrongdoing on the part of the owner.  (49 U.S.C. § 30106, subd.
(a).)  The Graves Amendment “shields owners of leased vehicles ‘engaged in
the business or trade of renting or leasing motor vehicles’ from vicarious
liability for the alleged negligence of their lessee’s drivers.”  (Vargas
v. FMI, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 638, 642.)
 
1.  Defendant’s Initial Burden
At the time of the accident, Fleet Lease was engaged in
leasing trucks to Long Beach Ice, including the truck implicated in the
incident. (Laura Guerrero Decl. ¶ 6; Bryan Larkin Decl. ¶ 5-6.) Fleet
Lease was involved in the business of leasing vehicles, not only at the time of
the accident but also before and after the incident. (Larkin Decl. ¶ 4.) Therefore, Defendant Fleet Lease has satisfied the first
requirement of the Graves Amendment, which mandates the vehicle's owner to be
engaged in the business of leasing or renting motor vehicles.
In
demonstrating compliance with the second prong of the Graves Amendment, which
requires the absence of negligent conduct by the owners, Fleet Lease presented
evidence to illustrate that it was not involved in any aspect of Long Beach Ice’s
operations. Specifically, Fleet Lease did not participate in managing Long
Beach Ice’s work force. (Guerrero Decl. 3:3-6.) Additionally, Fleet Lease played
no role in the hiring, training, direction, or scheduling of any Long Beach Ice
employees, including Defendant Cervantes. (Guerrero Decl. 3:3-6.) It had no
control over any Long Beach Ice drivers, including Defendant Cervantes.
(Guerrero Decl. 3:7-8.) Fleet Lease was not involved in any pre-trip inspection
of the Truck driven by Cervantes on the date of the Accident. (Guerrero Decl. 3:10-15.)
Moreover, Defendant introduced Plaintiff's initial discovery response to Form
Interrogatory No. 20.10, stating that he did not have any information that any
malfunction or defect in a vehicle contributed to the injuries sustained in the
incident. The Court notes, however, this response was provided on July 25,
2022, less than six months after the complaint was filed. Nevertheless,
Defendant has fulfilled its initial burden under the second prong of the Graves
Amendment.
 
2.  Plaintiffs’ Burden of Raising
Triable Issues of Material Fact


A.  Duty


Plaintiffs’
primary contention is that Defendant failed to properly maintain the truck
leased to Long Beach Ice. Plaintiffs point to their amended response to Form
Interrogatory 20.10, stating that they now have information that a defect in a
vehicle contributed to the incident, including malfunctions and defect in the vehicle’s brakes,
braking mechanism and tires. (Ex. 6 to Shawn Hakakian Decl.) This amendment is
justifiable, considering the initial response was produced a few months after
the complaint was filed and before sufficient discovery could be conducted. 
Plaintiffs present a lease agreement
between Fleet Lease and Long Beach Ice, in which Section 4(a) and (b) of the
agreement states that (a) Fleet Lease shall provide oil, lubricants, tires,
lubes, and all operating parts… necessary for the proper and efficient use of
the vehicles, (b) and to provide scheduled mechanical preventative maintenance
and repair to the vehicles … that may be required to keep the vehicles in
operating condition. (Ex. 1 to Hakakian Decl.) Further evidence came from the
deposition of Laura Guerrero, Long Beach Ice's controller, who testified that
Fleet Lease was accountable for the maintenance and repair of the truck in
question at the time of the incident. (Guerrero Depo 36:4-25.) Plaintiffs have
raised a triable issue of fact relating to Fleet lease’s duty in maintaining
the subject truck at the time of the incident.
B.  Causation
The police report indicates that Defendant
Cervantes was in the slow lane driving at 45 miles per hour when Plaintiffs’
car stopped. Despite applying the brakes, Cervantes still collided with
Plaintiffs’ car. Plaintiff Cortes mentioned in the police report that he was
driving at 10 miles per hour at the time of the accident. (Exhibit 5 to
Declaration of Shawn Hakakian.) The report does not clearly state whether the
collision occurred because Cervantes failed to decelerate in time or if the
truck's worn brakes prevented it from stopping in time. This ambiguity presents
a disputable issue of fact concerning causation, especially when considering
the speeds at which the vehicles were traveling. Moreover, it is Defendant’s
burden to negate Plaintiffs’ element of causation.  It failed to present evidence regarding
causation and thus failed to uphold its burden. 

Breach
The inspection record for the subject
truck, dated July 27, 2020, showed that the brake linings were significantly
worn and required prompt replacement. This record also highlighted issues of
cracks and unusual wear on the tires. These issues were identified two months
before the collision. (Exhibit 3 to Declaration of Paul Herbert.) On October
27, 2020, one month after the incident, another inspection was conducted. The
report showed that both front and rear brakes needed replacement. (Id.) The
subject truck’s brakes and tires were replaced on the same day. The repair
invoice specifically noted that the "rear brakes were worn to the
limit."  (Exhibit 4 to Herbert
Decl.)
Under the lease agreement, Fleet Lease
was required to provide all operating parts necessary for the proper and
efficient use of the vehicle and to conduct necessary preventative maintenance
to maintain the vehicle in operating condition. Whether Fleet Lease should have
performed the necessary preventative maintenance on the subject truck on July
27, 2020, when the brakes were near its limits, or waited until its inspection
on October 27, 2020 to repair the brakes when they were already "worn to
limit," or should have acted at some point in between, is a matter for the
jury to decide.  (Defendant raises an
issue regarding complying with the manufacturer recommendations regarding
brakes but fails to provide sufficient evidence to support this contention.) 
Defendant
did not introduce any expert testimony[1], but Plaintiffs did, and that
expert testified that the maintenance record showed the subject truck was
severely lacking in brake maintenance. (Herbert Decl. ¶ 11.) The expert contended
that the brakes of the subject truck were neglected (Herbert Decl. ¶ 11) and the
tires were uneven and worn,[2] contributing to the
collision. (Herbert Decl. ¶ 14.) 
Plaintiffs have
raised triable issues of fact relating to Defendant’s negligence in maintaining
the subject truck. Thus, Defendant’s MSJ is denied.

PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
¿ 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.¿ 
¿ 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.¿ 
¿ 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion. 
 


