 Case Number:  23STCV20937    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  27 HON. LEE
S. ARIAN
DEPARTMENT
27
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Hearing Date:                4/12/2024 at 1:30 p.m.
Case No./Name:          23STCV20937 CESAR CHAVEZ, AN INDIVIDUAL vs
GILMER FIGUEROA
Motion:                              MOTION TO DEEM REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS, SET
ONE, ADMITTED AND FOR SANCTIONS
Moving Party:                 Plaintiff
Responding Party:      Defendant Boris Navarro
Notice:                                Sufficient
¿ 
Ruling:                              MOTION TO DEEM REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS, SET
ONE, ADMITTED AND FOR SANCTIONS IS GRANTED.
 
Background
On August 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed the present
auto collision case. On October 10, 2023, Plaintiff served Defendant Boris
Navarro with his Request for Admission (RFA), Set One. On December 12, 2023,
Plaintiff sent Defendant's counsel, Hanger, Steinberg, Shapiro & Ash,
courtesy copies of the discovery requests. From December 2023 to February 2024,
the parties were in communication, and Plaintiff granted Defendant various
extensions to provide the discovery responses, even allowing Defendant to
preserve his objections. However, Defendant failed to provide the discovery
response by the final deadline set for February 19, 2024, and Plaintiff now
moves the court to deem the contents of Plaintiff's RFA, Set One, admitted.
 
Legal Standard
 
“Any party may obtain discovery .
. . by a written request that any other party to the action admit the
genuineness of specified documents, or the truth of specified matters of fact,
opinion relating to fact, or application of law to fact. A request for admission
may relate to a matter that is in controversy between the parties.”¿ CCP § 2033.010.¿ “Within 30 days after service of
requests for admission, the party to whom the requests are directed shall serve
the original of the response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the
response on all other parties who have appeared ....”¿ CCP § 2033.250(a).
 
If a party to whom request for
admissions are served fails to provide a timely response, the party to whom the
request was directed waives any objections, including based on privilege or the
work product doctrine. CCP § 2033.280(a). The requesting party can move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the request be deemed admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions.
CCP § 2033.280(b). The court shall issue this order unless the party to whom
the request was made serves a response in substantial compliance prior to the
hearing on the motion. CCP § 2033.280(c). Unlike a motion to compel further
discovery responses, a motion to deem RFA admitted does not have any meet and
confer requirements.
 
Analysis
 
It is undisputed that Defendant
failed to serve an initial response, even one consisting solely of objections,
within the timeframe required by CCP § 2033.250(a). Defendant filed an
opposition but did not show that substantially compliant responses were served
prior to the hearing date. Therefore, the current Motion to Deem Requests for
Admission (RFA) Admitted is GRANTED.
 
Defendant’s
counsel argued that they have not resolved the representation issue with
Defendant's carrier and intends to move to be relieved as counsel. Defendant
requests the Court to simply grant Plaintiff's motion instead of deeming the
requests admitted. The Court does not find Defendant's argument persuasive for
several reasons. First, Defendant did not cite any section of the California
Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) that provides for such an order. Second,
Plaintiff granted Defendant over six months to provide the discovery responses
and has been in communication with defense counsel for four months, even
allowing Defendant to preserve his objections. This means that Defendant’s
counsel could have served a response consisting of only objections to prevent
the contents of the RFA from being admitted; however, Defendant’s counsel
failed to do so. Furthermore, Defendant’s counsel had four months to resolve
the representation issue but has not done so. The Court does not see how
allowing an extra 30 days would resolve the issue. 
 
Sanctions are
mandatory against the party, the attorney, or both whose failure to serve
timely discovery responses necessitated Defendant to file the current motion.
(CCP § 2033.280(c).) Defendant requested sanctions in the amount of $1,250.00,
which the Court finds reasonable. Given that Plaintiff’s counsel and
Defendant’s counsel have been in communication since December 12, 2023, with
Plaintiff agreeing to several extensions and even consenting to preserve
Defendant’s objections, Plaintiff has been more than accommodating to
Defendant. Thus, under the circumstances, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff's request
for sanctions. Defendant and his counsel are ORDERED, jointly and severally, to
pay sanctions of $1,250.00 to Plaintiff within 20 days of today’s date.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.