 Case Number:  22STCV18460    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  27 Complaint Filed: 6/6/22
Trial Date: 6/11/24 
Hon. Lee S. Arian 
Department 27 
Tentative
Ruling 
¿ 
Hearing Date:           4/12/2024 at 1:30 p.m. 
Case No./Name:       22STCV18460 AMBER MARTIN, AN INDIVIDUAL vs
CARLOS ANTONIO LOPEZ-MURICA
Motion:                    MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
Moving Party:           Defendant Defendants Maria Torres and La Usuluteca Corp.
Responding Party:    Unopposed
Notice:                     Sufficient
¿¿ 
Ruling:                     MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL IS GRANTED.
 
Legal Standard 
 
Although continuances of trials are disfavored,
each request for a continuance must be considered on its own merits.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c).)¿ The
Court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause
requiring the continuance.¿ (CRC
Rule 3.1332(c).) The Court may look to the following factors in determining
whether a trial continuance is warranted: (1) proximity of the trial date; (2)
whether there was any previous continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the
length of the continuance requested; (4) the availability of alternative means
to address the problem that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that
parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6)
whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial.¿ (See generally CRC Rule 3.1332(d)(1)-(11).)¿ Additional factors for the Court to consider include: a party’s
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance; and any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application.¿ (CRC Rule 3.1332(c), (d).) 
¿ 
Factual Background and Analysis
 
On June 6, 2022, Plaintiff filed the present
auto accident case. On December 6, 2022, Defendants Maria Torres and La
Usuluteca Corp. filed their answer. Defendant Carlos Lopez Murica, the driver
of the vehicle that allegedly caused the collision, was only recently served
and filed an answer on March 25, 2024.
 
The parties request a continuance of the trial
date to November 2024 to allow additional time for discovery. Given that
Defendant Carlos Lopez Murica's only recently answered, the parties' request
for additional time to conduct discovery is reasonable. All parties have
stipulated to the extension, with no opposition filed citing prejudice.
Considering the age of the case, the absence of multiple prior continuances,
the parties' stipulation, and the need for further discovery, the Court grants
Defendants' motion to continue trial.
 
The new Trial
Date is set for November __, 2024, at 8:30
a.m. The Final Status Conference is continued to November__, 2024, at 10:00
a.m. All other case-related deadlines will follow the new trial date. 
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: 
 
If a party intends to submit on
this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting. 
 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue. 
 
If the parties neither submit nor
appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.