 Case Number:  22STCV27775    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Set Aside Dismissal filed by Plaintiff Lula
Frierson-Dean.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On August 25, 2022, Lula Frierson-Dean
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Kayla Properties LLC/Ethan 26 LLC., dba
Slauson Super Mall, and Does 1 through 10 for negligence and premises liability
arising out of a ceiling tile falling and striking Plaintiff on the head on
July 24, 2021. 
On filing, the case was assigned a trial date
of February 22, 2024.  When Plaintiff did
not appear for trial, the case was dismissed.
On April 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion
to set aside the dismissal. No opposition has been filed.
Legal Standard
“The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken…” (Code Civ. Pro., §473, subd. (b).) 
To qualify for relief under section 473,
the moving party must act diligently in seeking relief and must submit
affidavits or testimony demonstrating a reasonable cause for the
default. (Elston v. City of Turlock (1985) 38 Cal.3d 227, 234.) 
“In a motion under section 473 the initial
burden is on the moving party to prove excusable neglect by a preponderance of
the evidence.” (Kendall v. Barker (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d 619, 624.) “The
moving party has a double burden: He must show a satisfactory excuse for his
default, and he must show diligence in making the motion after discovery of the
default.” (Id. at p. 625.)
Discussion
Plaintiff’s counsel
Kenneth C. Yeager states that he failed to appear at the final status
conference and trial because he did not schedule the relevant dates on his
calendar. (Yeager Decl., ¶ 5.) Counsel contends the matter was dismissed based
on his mistake. (Id., ¶ 6.)
 
No opposition
has been filed.
 
The Court finds
Plaintiff has established the dismissal occurred due to counsel’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise or neglect due to the miscalendaring of hearing dates
for this matter causing counsel’s nonappearance and subsequent dismissal.
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion to set aside the dismissal is
GRANTED.   
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion.
 
The Court SETS ASIDE the dismissal order dated February
22, 2024.
 
The Court SETS an OSC re dismissal for failure to file
proof of service of summons and complaint in approximately 60 days.  The Court SETS a Trial Setting Conference at
the same time.
 
Moving party to give notice.