  Case Number:  SC127639    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  SWA Judge Eric C. Taylor
Tentative Ruling

Torrance/Department A

Hearing Date:                         Tuesday,
April 4, 2024 
Case Name:                             Barry
Judenfriend v. Steven M. Miller, et al. 
Case No.:                                SC127639 
Proceeding:                            Motion for Retrial/New
Trial per CCP §616 
Responding Party:                   Defendants Steven Miller and
National Moving Party:         Plaintiff
Barry Judenfriend  
Mortgage
Resources, Inc.  (“NMRI”)
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    Plaintiff’s
Motion for Retrial/New Trial is DENIED.  

 

 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff’s
Claims
Plaintiff
Barry Judenfriend owned residential property located at 131018 Nimrod Place,
Los Angeles, CA.  Plaintiff was in
financial distress allegedly due to health issues.  Plaintiff asserts that defendants exploited his
dire financial situation and age for their own gain. (Notably, all parties were
approximately 65 years of age or older).   When Plaintiff first encountered Defendants, he
had two mortgages secured by the property, a First Mortgage with JP Morgan
Chase (“Chase”) and a Second Mortgage with First Bank.  Defendants represented themselves to be
experts in the loan industry with inside contacts at Chase.  Defendants allegedly instructed Plaintiff to
worsen his financial situation in order to negotiate a loan principal and
interest rate reduction from Chase.  Plaintiff
asserts that he, thereafter, relied
on Defendants’ advice and ceased making payments on the First Mortgage and stopped
leasing out the property for rental income. 

            Defendants also made multiple “hard
money” loans to Plaintiff to meet his financial obligations, which were secured
by a Third Mortgage on the property.  Although
Plaintiff allegedly intended to use the loan funds to make payments on the
First Mortgage, Plaintiff asserts that Defendants instructed him not to do so.  Nevertheless, he used these funds from Defendants
to support himself and his family, paying rent for a separate apartment in
Brentwood, CA, and for cars and other expenses.  Before meeting Defendants, Plaintiff had a
long history of delinquency on the Chase First Mortgage, as well as the First
Bank Second Mortgage which was essentially frozen, with no current payments due.

Plaintiff
also alleges that he shared his confidential medical and financial information with
Defendants to assist him with his existing mortgages, and to convince
Defendants that he would be receiving funds from a medical malpractice
settlement that would help him meet his financial obligations in the future,
including his growing Third Mortgage obligations to Defendants.  Thereafter, Plaintiff alleges Defendants used
this medical information to convince Chase that Plaintiff was a bad risk.
Defendants subsequently approached First Bank about the Second Mortgage (allegedly
using Plaintiff’s confidential information) and purchased it at a discounted
rate ($237,000 for a $1,344,177.08 debt), despite Plaintiff’s express
instructions that they not disturb the Second Mortgage.  
            Plaintiff alleges that Chase
initiated foreclosure on the property in response to Plaintiff’s failure to
make payments on the First Mortgage. 
Defendants allegedly misrepresented to Plaintiff that Chase would not foreclose
due to Defendants’ active file for “liquidation” and Defendants’ contacts
within Chase.  After months of telling
Plaintiff that Chase would not foreclose, Defendants abruptly informed
Plaintiff that Chase had not approved the settlement and they could do nothing
to stop the foreclosure.  (At or around
this time, Miller and NMRI sold their interests to Dube through CFIS and
relinquished their rights under the Second and Third Mortgages). 
            Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
Dube also secretly paid Plaintiff’s arrearages to Chase and added that amount to
the Third Mortgage.  Subsequently, Defendants
Dube and CFIS then initiated foreclosure on the Third Mortgage.  At the foreclosure proceedings on the Third
Mortgage, Defendant Nimrod LLC, the alter ego of Defendant Dube, purchased the
property.  
            
Procedural
History
The
operative complaint in this action is the Third Amended Complaint filed on August
20, 2018 alleging (1) violation of Civil Code §2945; (2) violation of B&PC §17200;
(3) breach of fiduciary duty; (4) common law fraud-intentional
misrepresentation; (5) common law fraud-negligent misrepresentation; (6) common
law fraud-concealment; (7) Elder Financial Abuse; (8) negligence and (9)
tortious interference with business and contractual relations.  
            On June 29, 2023, after jury trial,
the jury returned a verdict only awarding Plaintiff Judenfriend $200,000 in past
economic damages.  On October 25, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a “Brief Regarding Outstanding Verdict Issues.”  On February 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed a second
“Brief Regarding Outstanding Verdict Issues.”  
            On November 15, 2023, a hearing was
held on all post-trial issues, including the issues of fiduciary duty,
outstanding verdict issues and the non-jury trial portion of the case.  Following the November 15, 2023 hearing, the
only remaining issues that required further briefing pertained to the following
causes of action:  (1) Fourth Cause of
Action for Intentional Misrepresentation; (2) Fifth Cause of Action for
Negligent Misrepresentation; (3) Sixth Cause of Action for Concealment; (4)
Eighth Cause of Action for Negligence; and (5) Ninth Cause of Action for
Tortious Interference.  In addition, the
Court required further briefing on the issue of whether NMRI’s fraudulent
misrepresentation was done with malice, oppression or fraud. 
            On February 14, 2024, the Court
allowed for supplemental briefing on the (1) Fifth Cause of Action for
Negligent Misrepresentation as to Defendants Miller, NMRI, Kelly Dube and First
Green Nimrod, LLC and (2) Eighth Cause of Action for Negligence.  The Court continued the hearing on the Fifth
and Eighth Causes of Action for negligent misrepresentation and negligence to
April 2, 2024.   
            On March 4, 2024, NMRI filed a Supplemental
Brief Regarding Plaintiff’s Motion for New Trial on the Negligent
Misrepresentation and Negligence Claims. 
On March 20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Supplemental Brief regarding
Outstanding Verdict Issues.  On March 25,
2024, NMRI filed a Reply Brief Regarding Plaintiff’s Motion for New Trial.  Dube filed no briefing in connection with
Plaintiff’s motion for retrial.
 
DISCUSSION
             Plaintiff’s Briefs Regarding Outstanding
Verdict Issues (filed October 25, 2023 and February 7, 2024)
            Plaintiff argues
the Court should order a retrial of the claims on which the jury was unable to
reach a verdict.  Plaintiff asks that a
retrial pursuant to CCP §616 be ordered as to the following claims, on which
the jury did not return any verdict:
(1)
against Dube
·        
First Cause of Action for violation of
Mortgage Foreclosure Consultant Act (Civil Code §2945)
·        
Third Cause of Action for Breach of
Fiduciary Duty
·        
Fourth Cause of Action for Intentional
Misrepresentation 
·        
Sixth Cause of Action for Concealment
·        
Ninth Cause of Action for Tortious
Interference re: First Bank
(2)
against NMRI
·        
First Cause of Action for Violation of the
Mortgage Foreclosure Consultant Act (Civil Code §2945)
·        
Second Cause of Action for Violation of
California Business and Professions Code §17200, et seq. 
·        
Third Cause of Action for Breach of
Fiduciary Duty
·        
Fifth Cause of Action for Negligent
Misrepresentation
·        
Sixth Cause of Action for Concealment
·        
Eighth Cause of Action for Negligence
·        
Ninth Cause of Action for Tortious
Interference re First Bank
 
            Plaintiff argues the jury was discharged
without rendering a verdict on these causes of action against Dube and NMRI.  Plaintiff argues each of these causes of
action are distinct and severable from the other causes of action.  
            Plaintiff argues that although the jury
reached a verdict finding NMRI liable for intentional misrepresentation, it nevertheless
failed to render a verdict on punitive damages and failed to determine whether Defendants
made intentional misrepresentations with malice, oppression or fraud.  Plaintiff argues it is an abuse of discretion
to deny retrial on punitive damages where there is sufficient evidence for a
reasonable trier of fact to find in Plaintiff’s favor.  
            Plaintiff argues a motion for new
trial could not be heard prior to his instant motion because a full decision had
not yet been rendered.   He argues the
jury deadlocked on numerous claims against Dube and NMRI.  Plaintiff argues no judgment has been
entered, nor has there been any notice of entry judgment, thus, a new trial motion
was not yet ripe.
 
            NMRI/Miller Supplemental Brief Regarding
Plaintiff’s Motion for New Trial (filed on March 4, 2024)
            NMRI (and Miller)
argue no new trial should be ordered on the negligent misrepresentation and
negligence claims against them.  NMRI
argues these claims were subsumed within the claim for intentional
misrepresentation.  They argue the
remedies for intentional misrepresentation are a superset of the remedies
available on these claims.  They argue the
danger that Plaintiff would receive a double recovery if allowed to proceed on
a separate trial on the negligence and negligent misrepresentation claims.  NMRI also argues that the remedies for
negligence and negligent misrepresentation are set forth in Civil Code §3333,
and are the same remedies available for intentional misrepresentation. 
            NMRI argues the jury verdict form does
not specify what representations, allegations or evidence the jury relied on to
find NMRI liable for intentional misrepresentation.  NMRI argues there is nothing to ensure that a
subsequent jury would not rely on the same allegations and award the same
recovery on a negligent misrepresentation claim.  NMRI argues negligent misrepresentation is a
subset of fraud and deceit, and that a retrial would lead to the potential for
multiple verdicts on the same set of underlying facts, with the potential for
conflicting and inconsistent verdicts.  
            
Plaintiff’s
Supplemental Brief regarding Outstanding Verdict Issues (filed on March 20,
2024)
            Plaintiff
reiterates his statements made in his initial briefs regarding “outstanding
verdict issues.”  Plaintiff argues the
jury failed to render a verdict on numerous causes of action against Dube and
NMRI.  Plaintiff argues these remaining
claims are sufficiently distinct from the other claims and retrial is proper.
            Plaintiff argues NMRI is also
incorrect that a concealment claim depends on the existence of a fiduciary
duty.  Plaintiff argues a claim for
concealment may be brought against one who is not a fiduciary or one who has a
confidential relationship in at least three instances:  (1) the defendant makes misrepresentations
but does not disclose facts that materially qualify the facts disclosed, or
which render his disclosure likely to mislead; (2) the facts are known or
accessible only to defendant, and defendant knows they are not known to, or are
reasonably discoverable by plaintiff; or (3) the defendant actively conceals
discovery from the plaintiff.  
            Plaintiff argues there was evidence
in the record to support a claim for concealment based on Miller’s failure to
disclose material facts that rendered his affirmative statements likely to
mislead.  Plaintiff argues the collateral
estoppel rule also does not apply, because concealment and intentional
misrepresentation do not involve resolution of “identical issues.”  Plaintiff argues intentional
misrepresentation is based on affirmative misrepresentations while concealment
is based on omissions.  
            Plaintiff argues retrial of the
negligence and negligent misrepresentation causes of action will not lead to
inconsistent verdicts or double recovery. 
He argues he alleged two separate misrepresentations against Defendants
and a jury could easily find that one misrepresentation was made intentionally,
while the other was made negligently, leading to a separate and distinct harm.  Plaintiff argues the jury had to have been
contemplating different misrepresentations in connection with the intentional
versus the negligent misrepresentation claims. He argues that is the only
reason why the negligent misrepresentation claim was left blank.  
            Plaintiff argues there is no chance
for double recovery if the negligent misrepresentation and negligence claims
are retried, because each claim is based on different statements, directions,
instructions and misrepresentations, both intentional and negligent.  Plaintiff argues these distinct acts also
give rise to distinct damages, including loss of rental income, late charges
and foreclosure charges, damages resulting from the misrepresentation that they
would share the discount obtained in acquiring the First Bank Loan, deprivation
of the ability to complete the Chase loan modification process, loss of the
remaining equity in Plaintiffs’ home and loss of appreciation over the period
they would have been able to preserve ownership of the home.  
            Plaintiff argues there is no danger
of double recovery, because the jury awarded no non-economic damages.  He argues the issue of noneconomic damages in
connection with either the negligence or the negligent misrepresentation claim
has never been resolved.  
            Plaintiff argues it is impossible to
know on what the jury based its $200,000 award of past economic damages.  He argues the inability to know the basis of
the jury award is not grounds to deprive him of his right to try all of his
claims against NMRI.  Plaintiff argues
NMRI is not entitled to what is essentially summary adjudication, particularly
given NMRI’s failure to establish that double recovery is a possibility.  
            
NMRI’s
Reply Brief (filed on March 25, 2024)
            NMRI argues
retrial is not automatically justified merely because the jury failed to reach
a verdict on some claims.  Here, NMRI
argues the claims on which the jury did not render a verdict are not distinct
and so separable that they can be adjudicated independently.  NMRI argues that even if Plaintiff can
articulate a theory under which the unresolved claims could be adjudicated
separately and in a way that would not conflict with the existing verdict, the
reality is that the verdict form does not segregate findings based on specific
representations.  NMRI argues the jury
instructions read to the jury establish the inseparability of the claims.   NMRI argues the jury was instructed that
each item of damage could only be awarded once, regardless of the number of
theories alleged, and that general damages could only be awarded as to the
fraud, negligent misrepresentation, negligence and elder abuse claims.  
            NMRI argues the concealment claim
cannot survive.  NMRI argues the Court
has already found that it/they are not a fiduciary of Plaintiff.  It further argues the other circumstances
under which concealment can be found do not exist here, and that there is no
basis to find that there were any partial or incomplete statements.  NMRI argues it acquired the Second Mortgage
as part of an arm’s length transaction. 
            NMRI argues an equally or more
plausible theory for the jury’s failure to return a verdict on the negligent
misrepresentation claim was their attribution of Dube’s actions to NMRI.  NMRI argues, even if Plaintiff’s negligent
misrepresentation and negligence claims are separate theories of liability
distinct from those already adjudicated, Plaintiff cannot articulate damages
different from those already awarded.  NMRI
argues for these reasons concealment should not be submitted for retrial as
well.
            NMRI argues retrial of any of these
claims risks confusion and conflicting verdicts.  NMRI argues the case law cited by Plaintiff
is distinguishable, because in those cases, the only verdicts rendered were
defense verdicts.  NMRI argues, here, the
jury issued a verdict in Plaintiff’s favor, and there is a possibility of
inconsistent verdicts and double recovery.
            
 
 
Legal
Standards
            “In all cases where the jury are
discharged without having rendered a verdict, or are prevented from giving a
verdict, by reason of accident or other cause, during the progress of the
trial, or after the cause is submitted to them, except as provided in Section
630, the action may be again tried immediately, or at a future time, as the
court may direct.”  (CCP §616.)[1]  
            A motion for retrial pursuant to CCP
§616 is discretionary, not mandatory.  (Virtanen
v. O’Connell (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 688, 711-712.)  A court’s decision on a motion for retrial
pursuant to CCP §616 is reviewed under the abuse of discretion standard.  (Id.) 
        “There is no constitutional
impediment to a retrial of a limited issue, so long as that issue is
sufficiently distinct and severable from the others that a limited retrial
would not result in an injustice.  And,
where special verdicts on one matter do not depend on inconclusive special
verdicts on another matter, the remaining matter can properly be determined on
retrial.” (Valentine v. Baxter Healthcare Corp. (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th
1467, 1478.)  
            Thus, in Valentine, where the
jury returned defense verdicts on the plaintiff’s strict liability and fraud
claims, the trial court properly ordered retrial on the plaintiff’s negligence
claim where the jury deadlocked on the issue of causation.  (Id.) 
The negligence claim was “separately pled, separately covered on the
verdict form, and subject to separate instructions.  Negligence and strict liability form
independent bases of liability.”  (Id.
at 1478-1479.)  Thus, the trial court
properly submitted the negligence claim for retrial, because it was severable
from the causes of action that were the subject of the special verdicts and
could therefore be separately tried.  (Id.
at 1478.)  
            However, the Valentine court
ruled that it was error for the trial court to submit the negligent failure to
warn count to the jury.  Based on the
jury instructions for strict liability and negligent failure to warn, negligent
failure to warn was subsumed in the strict liability claim on which the first
jury returned a defense verdict.  (Id.
at 1482.)
            In Virtanen v. O’Connell (2006)
140 Cal.App.4th 688, the trial court’s failure to grant plaintiff’s
request for partial retrial on the issue of punitive damages was an abuse of
discretion.  The Court of Appeals found
the trial court’s denial of plaintiff’s request for retrial on the issue of
punitive damages was an abuse of discretion where (1) the jury found the
defendant liable for conversion, breach of fiduciary duty and negligence; (2)
the record contained clear and convincing evidence from which a jury could find
malice, fraud or oppression; (3) although nine jurors were required to obtain
punitive damages, a majority of the jurors (7 out of 5) did find clear and
convincing evidence to award plaintiff punitive damages based on malice, fraud
or oppression; and (4) there had only been one trial on the issue of
plaintiff’s request for punitives, as opposed to multiple retrials.  (Virtanen, supra, 140 Cal.App.4th
at 715.) The trial court’s denied plaintiff’s request for retrial because he
“simply failed to carry [his] burden and [his] burden was to get nine out of
twelve votes.”  (Id. at 715.)  In response to the trial court’s reasoning,
the Court of Appeals stated, “[w]hile it is true that Virtanen did not get nine
votes on the first attempt, it is also true that he is entitled to a resolution
of the matter if one can be had.”  (Id.)  Given these facts, denial of plaintiff’s
first and only request for retrial on the issue of punitive damages was an
abuse of discretion.  (Id.)
            
A)    Plaintiff
fails to demonstrate that the claims on which the jury rendered a verdict
against Dube, Miller and NMRI are “sufficiently distinct and severable from the
others that a limited retrial would not result in an injustice.”
            As set forth in
the jury instructions, which were based on CACI 3934, at Plaintiff’s
suggestion, all of the claims alleged by Plaintiff could only support the same
five categories of compensatory relief.  The
jury instructions also stated Plaintiff could only recover general damages in
connection with the fraud, negligent misrepresentation, negligence and elder
financial abuse claims.  Plaintiff’s
claims were also based on the exact same set of facts and the conduct alleged
was not severable.   
            Intentional misrepresentation,
concealment and negligent misrepresentation are all species of fraud.  Plaintiff’s intentional fraud, negligent
misrepresentation and concealment claims are all based on the same alleged
misrepresentations or omissions in connection with those misrepresentations.  (See Plaintiff’s 3rd Amend.
Complaint, ¶¶134, 145, 159-161.)    
            Given these circumstances, (1) retrial
of the intentional misrepresentation claim against Dube could result in a
verdict that conflicts with the existing negligent misrepresentation verdict
against him; and (2) retrial of the negligent misrepresentation claim against
NMRI/Miller could result in a verdict that conflicts with the existing intentional
misrepresentation verdict against them. 
A retrial of these claims could result in a second jury finding that (1)
the same representations deemed by the first jury to have been negligently made
by Dube were intentionally made and (2) the same representations deemed by the
second jury to have been intentionally made by NMRI/Miller were negligently
made.  
            Plaintiff argues he alleged these
fraud claims based on multiple misrepresentations, and no conflicting verdicts
will result if retrial is granted, because the second jury’s findings could be
based on different misrepresentations from the first jury’s findings.  In theory, Plaintiff is correct.  In practice, it would be impossible to
prevent the second jury from revisiting the issue of whether the same misrepresentations
relied upon by the first jury were (1) made by the Defendants and (2) whether
those misrepresentations were negligently or intentionally made. The verdict
form did not separately request a jury verdict on each alleged
misrepresentation.  There is no practical
way to ensure that that the second jury’s verdict on the intentional
misrepresentation claim against Dube would not conflict with the first jury’s
verdict against Dube on the negligent misrepresentation claim.  The same problem arises if the negligent
misrepresentation claim against NMRI/Miller were retried given the existing
verdict against NMRI/Miller on Plaintiff’s intentional misrepresentation
claim.    
            In addition, Plaintiff received an
award of $200,000 in past economic damages as to Dube, NMRI and Miller based on
the jury’s finding that these Defendants made intentional misrepresentations
(NMRI) and negligent misrepresentations (Dube), and were negligent (Dube.)  Plaintiff fails to articulate how retrial
would yield any additional damages, given that all his claims were inextricably
lumped into the same vat of potential facts and claims supporting a universal verdict
in the instructions and verdict forms, and each category of damages identified
in the jury instructions could only be awarded once in the verdict, regardless
of the legal theory.
            
B)    Plaintiff’s
claim for emotional distress non-economic damages is barred by the economic
loss rule.
Plaintiff
argues that no emotional distress damages were awarded and he is entitled to a
verdict on whether NMRI was negligent or made negligent misrepresentations and
whether he suffered emotional distress as a result thereof.  However, the Court’s understanding is that
emotional distress damages are unavailable as a matter of law against NMRI for
negligence or negligent misrepresentation under the economic loss rule.  “The economic loss rule provides that, in general,
there is no recovery in tort for negligently inflicted ‘purely economic
losses,’ meaning financial harm unaccompanied by physical or property
damage.”  (Dhital v. Nissan North
America, Inc. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 828, 837 (economic loss rule bars
recovery for negligently inflicted economic losses “unaccompanied by…property
damage”); Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 551 (recognizing long
line of cases in which tort damages were allowed for a breach of contract where
the conduct resulted in injury to person or property); Robinson Helicopter
Co., Inc., supra, 34 Cal.4th at 989-990 (economic loss rule does not
bar tort damages where conduct is also a breach of contract where intentional
tort is involved, where conduct violates duty independent of contractual
duties, or in contract cases where breach of duty directly causes physical
injury).)
 
C)    Plaintiff
has not demonstrated sufficient grounds for a retrial of his punitive damages
claim against NMRI.
As
to the jury’s failure to render any verdict on Plaintiff’s punitive damages
claim against NMRI, Virtanen is distinguishable.  Unlike the jurors in Virtanen, where
a majority of jurors found clear and convincing evidence of fraud, malice or oppression
under Civil Code §3294, here, the jurors left that verdict question blank.  
            This Court presided over this trial
for approximately five (5) weeks and heard Plaintiff’s evidence in support of
his claims.  In this Court’s opinion,
based on the evidence presented, Plaintiff misjudged and/or misrepresented to
Defendants his ability to satisfy his mortgage obligations related to the
Property -- representing that he would pay on his outstanding debts once he
received an anticipated judgment/settlement in a pending medical malpractice
lawsuit.  No such judgement/settlement
ever manifested, and Plaintiff made no loan payments to Defendants.  Nor did Plaintiff present any other means or any
path to secure Defendants in his obligations to them.  Indeed, while failing to reassure his
creditors (the Defendants), he was purchasing/leasing luxury automobiles for
himself and/or his family.  When Plaintiff
demonstrated no path to repayment of the Third Mortgage and refused to consider
selling the Property, Defendants were left with little choice, in this Court’s
view, but to secure the loans they made to Plaintiff.  Any fact finder could just as easily conclude
that this natural and obvious reaction by Defendants was their core motive,
above concluding that Defendants’ motivations were more nefarious.  Only after loaning money to Plaintiff, did
they discover that Plaintiff would have no true ability to repay, or intention
of selling the property to satisfy his outstanding debts.  Further, as to NMRI, its involvement ceased
short of Dube’s acquiring the First Bank Second Mortgage and his ultimate foreclosure
which is at the crux of Plaintiff’s argument that Defendants, collectively,
profited in this interaction.
 “Something more than the mere commission of a
tort is always required for punitive damages. There must be circumstances of
aggravation or outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil
motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate
disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called willful or
wanton.”  (Virtanen, supra,
140 Cal.App.4th at 712.)  Based
on the evidence presented, Plaintiff did not, and cannot reasonably establish,
by clear and convincing evidence, that Defendant NMRI acted with fraud, malice
or oppression under Civil Code §3294(c).  

             
CONCLUSION
            The claims on which the jury failed
to return a verdict are not sufficiently severable and independent from those
claims on which they returned a verdict. 
Retrial of the claims on which the jury failed to return a verdict would
lead to confusion and potentially conflicting verdicts.  Further, Plaintiff’s claim for non-economic
loss appears to be barred by the “economic loss rule.” And finally, the
evidence as presented at trial did not support a reasonable basis for a “clear
and convincing” case supporting a finding of “fraud, malice or oppression” against
MNRI.  For the foregoing reasons,
Plaintiff’s motion for retrial is denied.


