 Case Number:  22STCV12757    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows.  BACKGROUND  On  April 15, 2022, Plaintiffs Maria Del Carmen Ramos (“Ramos”) and Teodoro Ramos  Sanchez (“Sanchez”) filed this action against Defendants AA  Gonzalez Inc. (“Gonzalez”), Jose Almanzar Orozco (“Almanzar”), and Does 1-100  for motor vehicle tort and general negligence.  On  July 31, 2023, Gonzalez filed an answer. On January 25, 2024, Almanzar filed an  answer.  On  January 29, 2024, Gonzalez filed a motion to compel Plaintiffs’ depositions and  for sanctions, to be heard on February 29, 2024. On February 15, 2024,  Plaintiffs filed an opposition. On February 21, 2024, Gonzalez filed a reply.  Trial  is currently scheduled for April 12, 2024.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Gonzalez  asks the Court (1) to compel Plaintiffs to appear for depositions and (2) to impose  sanctions on Plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs  ask the Court (2) to deny the motion and (2) to impose sanctions on Gonzalez.  LEGAL STANDARD  Code  of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 provides in part:  “(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party  to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party,  or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section  2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails  to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection  any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in  the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order  compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for  inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible  thing described in the deposition notice.  “(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with  both of the following:  “(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing  good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,  electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the  deposition notice.  “(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and  confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to  attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored  information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration  stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the  nonappearance.  *  * *  “(g) (1) If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted,  the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with  Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against  the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the  court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial  justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”   (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subds. (a), (b), (g)(1).)  DISCUSSION  On  December 4, 2023, Gonzalez served notices that Plaintiffs’ depositions would  take place on January 2, 2024, and January 3, 2024.  On December 28, 2023, Plaintiffs’ counsel  informed Defendants’ counsel that Plaintiffs would not appear for the depositions  because Defendants’ counsel had not returned the notice and acknowledgement for  Almanzar.  Defendants’ counsel attempted  to meet and confer with Plaintiffs’ counsel but received no response before  filing this motion.  Gonzalez  argues the Court should compel Plaintiffs to appear for their depositions  because Gonzalez properly noticed the depositions and Plaintiffs did not serve  valid objections to the deposition notices.  Plaintiffs  argue that the case was not at issue when Gonzalez served the deposition  notices because Almanzar had not returned the notice of acknowledgement and receipt.  The argument is a non sequitur.  Gonzalez, not Almanzar, served the deposition  notices, and Gonzalez had filed an answer on July 31, 2023.  Plaintiffs cite no authority for the  proposition that a case must be “at issue” with respect to all defendants  before an answering defendant may propound discovery.  (See, e.g., Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.210,  subd. (a) [“The defendant may serve a deposition notice without leave of court  at any time after that defendant has been served or has appeared in the  action, whichever occurs first” (emphasis added)].)  Plaintiffs  also argue that Gonzalez noticed the depositions unilaterally.  But Plaintiffs waived that objection by  failing to “serve[ ] a written objection specifying that error or irregularity  . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410,  subd. (a).)  Finally,  Plaintiffs assert that, after Gonzalez filed this motion, they proposed dates  in March 2024 for their depositions.  In  response, Gonzalez offered to take the motion to compel off calendar if  Plaintiffs appeared for deposition before the hearing (set for February 29,  2024).  Plaintiffs’ counsel was not available  for a deposition before that date.  The  Court grants Gonzalez’s motion and orders Plaintiffs to appear for their  depositions within 20 days of the hearing on this motion.  After hearing argument at the February 29, 2024 hearing, the Court concludes that an award of sanctions against Plaintiffs would be unjust.  Therefore, the Court denies Gonzalez's request for sanctions.  CONCLUSION  The Court GRANTS Defendant AA Gonzalez Inc.’s motion  to compel Plaintiffs Maria Del Carmen Ramos and Teodoro Ramos Sanchez to  attend their depositions.  The Court  orders Plaintiffs Maria Del Carmen Ramos and Teodoro Ramos  Sanchez to appear for deposition within twenty days of the hearing on this  motion.  Defendant AA Gonzalez Inc. is  ordered to make any necessary arrangements to ensure that the depositions take  place by this deadline.  The Court DENIES Defendant AA Gonzalez Inc.’s request  for sanctions.  The Court DENIES the request for sanctions of Plaintiffs  Maria Del Carmen Ramos and Teodoro Ramos Sanchez.  Moving  party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.