  Case Number:  20STCV35340    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
September 15, 2020, Plaintiff Katheryn Drexler
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Jeannine Rosete (“Rosete”), Shay Rose Bolton (“Bolton”), and Does 1-50 for
negligence. 
On
June 17, 2022, Bolton filed an answer. On August 8, 2022, Rosete filed an
answer. 
On January
8, 2024, Bolton filed motions (1) to compel Plaintiff’s
retained experts to appear for deposition and for sanctions and (2) to compel Plaintiff’s
responses to supplemental discovery and for sanctions.  The motions were set to be heard on February
29, 2024.  Plaintiff has not filed
oppositions. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for April 15, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
Bolton
asks the Court (1) to compel Plaintiff’s retained experts Fardad Mobin, M.D.,
Andrew S. Morris, D.D., and Jonathan Eskenazi, M.D., to appear for deposition,
(2) to compel Plaintiff’s responses to supplemental discovery, and (3) to impose
sanctions.
I.               MOTION TO COMPEL RETAINED EXPERTS’ DEPOSITIONS  
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Expert depositions 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2034.410 provides: 
“On receipt of an expert witness list from a party,
any other party may take the deposition of any person on the list. The
procedures for taking oral and written depositions set forth in Chapters 9
(commencing with Section 2025.010), 10 (commencing with Section 2026.010), and
11 (commencing with Section 2028.010) apply to a deposition of a listed trial
expert witness except as provided in this article.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2034.410.) 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.460, subdivision (a),
provides: 
“The service of a proper deposition notice accompanied
by the tender of the expert witness fee described in Section 2034.430 is
effective to require the party employing or retaining the expert to produce the
expert for the deposition.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.460,
subd. (a).) 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.480 provides in part: 
“(a) If a deponent fails to answer any question or to
produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production. 
“(b) This motion shall be made no later than 60 days
after the completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
“(c) Notice of this motion shall be given to all
parties and to the deponent either orally at the examination, or by subsequent
service in writing. If the notice of the motion is given orally, the deposition
officer shall direct the deponent to attend a session of the court at the time
specified in the notice. 
* * *
  “(h) Not less than five days prior to the hearing on
this motion, the moving party shall lodge with the court a certified copy of
any parts of the stenographic transcript of the deposition that are relevant to
the motion. If a deposition is recorded by audio or video technology, the
moving party is required to lodge a certified copy of a transcript of any parts
of the deposition that are relevant to the motion. 
“(i) If the court determines that the answer or
production sought is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be
given or the production be made on the resumption of the deposition. 
“(j) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or
production, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subds. (a), (b), (c), (h), (i), (j).) 

DISCUSSION 
On
October 9, 2023, Bolton noticed the depositions of Plaintiff’s three retained
experts, Dr. Mobin, Dr. Morris, and Dr. Eskenazi.  The depositions of Dr. Mobin and Dr. Morris
were set for November 2, 2023.  Dr.
Eskenazi’s deposition was set for November 3, 2023. 
Plaintiff
did not object to the deposition notices or inform Bolton’s counsel that the
deponents or Plaintiff’s counsel could not attend the depositions. 
On
November 2, 2023, Bolton’s counsel appeared for the depositions of Dr. Mobin
and Dr. Morris.  However, Dr. Mobin, Dr.
Morris, and Plaintiff’s counsel did not appear for the depositions or produce the expert witness files.  Bolton’s counsel requested certificates of nonappearance. 
On
November 3, 2023, Bolton’s counsel appeared for Dr. Eskenazi’s deposition.  However, Dr. Eskenazi and Plaintiff’s counsel
did not appear for the deposition or produce the expert
witness file.  Bolton’s counsel requested
a certificate of nonappearance. 
Bolton’s
counsel has attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel, without
success. 
The
Court grants Bolton’s motion to compel the retained experts’ depositions and
production of documents requested in the deposition notices. 
Bolton asks the Court to impose $1,025.50 in sanctions
on Plaintiff based on the cost to prepare the motion. However, Bolton has not
identified a statute that authorizes a sanctions award. 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.480, subdivision
(j), provides that “[t]he court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter
7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480,
subd. (j).)  Plaintiff did not make or
oppose a motion to compel. 
Bolton also relies on the statutory definition of
misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc, § 2023.010.) However, Code of
Civil Procedure section 2023.010 is “ ‘definitional’ and monetary sanctions may
not be imposed based solely on [the statute]. Monetary sanctions may be imposed
only if authorized by some other provision of the Discovery Act.” (L. Edmon
& C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter
2023) ¶ 8:1900, p. 8M-2; see Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030 [court may impose sanctions
for misuse of the discovery process “[t]o the extent authorized by the chapter
governing any particular discovery method or other provision of this title”].) 
Because Bolton has not identified a statutory basis
for sanctions, the Court denies the request for monetary sanctions. 

CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Shay Rose Bolton’s motion to compel Plaintiff’s retained
experts Fardad Mobin, M.D., Andrew S. Morris, D.D., and Jonathan Eskenazi,
M.D., to appear for deposition and produce documents requested in the
deposition notices served on them.  The
Court orders Fardad Mobin, M.D., Andrew S. Morris, D.D., and Jonathan Eskenazi,
M.D., to appear for their depositions and produce responsive documents within 20
days of the hearing on this motion. 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Shay Rose Bolton’s request for monetary sanctions. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days. 
II.           
MOTION TO
COMPEL PLAINTIFF’S RESPONSE TO SUPPLEMENTAL DISCOVERY 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Demand for inspection 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.300 provides in part: 
“If a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response to it, the
following rules shall apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling is directed waives any objection to the demand,
including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under
Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve
that party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following
conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230,
2031.240, and 2031.280. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The party making the demand may move for an order
compelling response to the demand. 
“(c) Except as provided in subdivision (d), the court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey the order
compelling a response, the court may make those orders that are just, including
the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in
addition to this sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). . . .” 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subds. (a), (b), (c).) 
B.   Interrogatories 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.290 provides: 
“If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails
to serve a timely response, the following rules apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the interrogatories are
directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under
Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including
one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4
(commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that
party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following
conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2030.210, 2030.220, 2030.230, and
2030.240. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The party propounding the interrogatories may
move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories. 
“(c) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey an order compelling
answers, the court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition
of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that
sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010).” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290.) 
DISCUSSION 
          On September 21, 2023, Bolton served supplemental requests
for production and supplement interrogatories on Plaintiff.  Responses were due on October 23, 2023.  
Plaintiff
did not provide timely responses and had not provided responses by the time Bolton
filed this motion. 
The
Court grants the motion to compel responses to the supplemental request for
production and orders Plaintiff to provide verified code-compliant responses
and to produce the documents, electronically stored information, and/or other
things requested without objections within 20 days of the hearing on this
motion. 
The
Court grants the motion to compel further responses to the supplemental
interrogatories and orders Plaintiff to serve verified, code-compliant responses
to the supplemental interrogatories without objection within 20 days of the
hearing on this motion. 
Bolton
should have filed two motions, one for each type of discovery.  The Court orders Bolton to pay the Court one
additional filing fee. 
Bolton
asks the Court to impose $586.50 in sanctions based on the cost to prepare the
motion. However, Bolton has not identified a statute that authorizes a
sanctions award. 
The
statutes at issue authorize sanctions awards against parties,
persons, and attorneys who unsuccessfully make or oppose a motion to
compel.  Plaintiff did not make or oppose
a motion to compel. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.300, subd.
(c).) 
Because
Bolton has not identified a statutory basis for sanctions, the Court denies the
request for monetary sanctions. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Shay Rose Bolton’s motion to compel responses to the
supplemental request for production and orders Plaintiff Katheryn Drexler to serve
verified code-compliant responses and to produce the documents, electronically
stored information, and/or other things requested without objections within 20
days of the hearing on this motion. 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Shay Rose Bolton’s motion
to compel responses to the supplemental interrogatories and orders Plaintiff
Katheryn Drexler to serve verified code-compliant responses to the supplemental
interrogatories without objection within 20 days of the hearing on this motion. 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Shay Rose Bolton’s request for sanctions. 
The
Court orders Defendant Shay Rose Bolton to pay the Court one additional filing
fee. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file proof of service of this ruling with the Court within
five days.