 Case Number:  22STCV04830    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing, and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
February 8, 2022, Plaintiff Megan R. Tucker (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Azusa Pacific University
(“Defendant”) and Does 1-20 for general negligence and premises liability. 
On
April 13, 2022, Defendant filed an answer. 
On
April 21, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, summary adjudication, to be heard on February 1, 2024. The Court
continued the hearing February 29, 2024. On February 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an opposition. On February 23, 2024, Defendant filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for May 28, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to grant summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
Defendants’
objections: Overruled 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Summary judgment and summary adjudication 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).) “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence
of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production,
he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production
of his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 850.)  
          When the moving party is a
defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot establish at least one
element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.”  (Id. at p.
854.) The defendant must “present evidence, and not simply point out that the
plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.) Thus, “the defendant must
‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions,
answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’
must or may ‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence
that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The
defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the
plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original
emphasis.)  
          “Supporting and opposing affidavits or declarations . . .
shall set forth admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).)
“Matters which would be excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a
witness in a trial as hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be
disregarded in supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman
v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
          In addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary
adjudication must support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth
plainly and concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are
undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1) [motion for summary judgment];
see Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(2) [motion for summary adjudication
“shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment”].)
The party opposing the motion must file with the opposition papers “a separate
statement that responds to each of the material facts contended by the moving
party to be undisputed, indicating whether the opposing party agrees or
disagrees that those facts are undisputed. The statement also shall set forth
plainly and concisely any other material facts that the opposing party contends
are disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party to be disputed
shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (b)(3).)  If either party
fails to comply with the applicable separate statement requirement, that failure
may in the court’s discretion constitute a sufficient ground to decide the
motion adversely to the offending party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds.
(b)(1), (3).)   
          In ruling on the motion, the court
must consider all of the evidence and all of the inferences reasonably drawn from
it and must view such evidence and inferences in the light most favorable to
the opposing party.  (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 843.)  “[A] court
cannot grant summary judgment based on inferences that are contradicted by
other inferences or evidence. And a triable issue of fact exists when the
evidence permits a reasonable trier of fact to find a contested fact in favor
of the party opposing the motion. 
[Citation.] Put slightly differently, a summary judgment may not be
granted unless the evidence is incapable of supporting a judgment for the
losing party.” (California-American Water Co. v. Marina Coast Water Dist.
(2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 1272, 1296.) 
B.   Negligence and premises liability 
“The elements of a negligence claim and a premises
liability claim are the same: a legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and
proximate cause resulting in injury.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1
Cal.5th 1132, 1159.) 
C.   Primary assumption of risk 
“Under
primary assumption of risk, the defendant has a duty not to increase the risks
inherent in the sport, not a duty to decrease the risks.” (Aaris v. Las
Virgenes Unified School Dist. (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1120.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The complaint
alleges that on February 13, 2020, at 901 E. Alosta Avenue, Azuza, CA 91702, Defendants
negligently, carelessly and recklessly owned, entrusted, managed and maintained
their premises, allowing a dirty, muddy and slippery roadway/walkway to exist on
their softball field.  As Plaintiff was operating
Defendant's Gator utility vehicle through the softball field, the tires allegedly
lost traction due to the mud on the roadway/walkway, causing Plaintiff to lose control
of the utility vehicle and suffer injuries. 
B.   Undisputed facts 
Plaintiff
was a member of the Azusa Pacific University women’s softball team for the
2016-2017, 2017-2018, 2018-2019, and 2019-2020 seasons. 
In
2019, Plaintiff signed two informed consent forms.  Plaintiff admits that she assumed the risk of
injury during her participation in intercollegiate softball.  Plaintiff
understood the June 30, 2019 Informed Consent Agreement to state that she
assumed all risks of injury sustained while playing and practicing the sport of
softball. 
On
the first day of Plaintiff’s senior year, her coach assigned her the task of
dragging the field after practice on Thursdays. This task was among many
assigned that day for those who participated in the softball athletic program. Plaintiff testified the list of tasks
consisted of “sweeping the dugout, driving the field, watering the field,
picking the weeds from the running track, taking the trash out, taking the
bases out and putting them in the shed, like away. I think one was cleaning the
clubhouse, like wiping it down.” 
Plaintiff
performed the task of dragging the field approximately 20 times prior to the
incident on February 13, 2020.  Plaintiff
testified that there was nothing about operating the Gator that was unclear to
her at the time of the incident and she had no unanswered questions regarding
how to handle and operate the campus utility vehicle. 
Plaintiff
testified that on February 13, 2020, she first noticed the mud at approximately
7:30 a.m., when she arrived at the softball field and practice began.  Plaintiff testified that “it could have
rained because it was wet, wetter than usual that day. I do remember that.”  Plaintiff testified, “Yeah… I knew it was
there. In the early morning. That's when it was most wet. That's when
everything was most dewy and wet.” Plaintiff testified, “Yeah, we would avoid
it, just kind of stepping around it, going on the grass whenever there is a
puddle.” 
Before
the start of practice, the Gator was operated without issue. Plaintiff could
tell that the task of dragging the field had been done that morning prior to
her arrival for the 7:30 a.m. practice. 
C.   Analysis 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s signature of Defendant’s informed consent forms
relieved Defendant of any duty to Plaintiff under the primary assumption of
risk doctrine.  According to Defendant,
Plaintiff was injured during her participation in a team sport and therefore
the provisions of the informed consent forms shielded Defendant from liability. 
Defendant
also argues that, apart from the release forms, it owed Plaintiff no duty under
the primary assumption of the risk doctrine because driving the utility vehicle
to drag the field after practice was an inherent risk of participating in Defendant’s
softball program and Defendant did not take any actions to increase the risk. 
The
Court has reviewed the informed consent forms and other evidence and concludes
that Defendant has not carried its initial summary judgment burden of showing it
owed Plaintiff no duty based on her signature of the consent forms or the primary
assumption of risk doctrine.  Defendant
has not presented evidence establishing as a matter of law that the informed
consent forms covered Plaintiff’s work maintaining Defendant’s softball field.  Likewise, Defendant has not presented
evidence establishing as a matter of law that driving a utility vehicle to
maintain the softball field was inherent to playing softball. 
The
Court denies the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court
DENIES Defendant Azusa Pacific University's motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.