 Case Number:  22STCV10003    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
March 22, 2022, Plaintiff Abdi Manavi filed a complaint against Defendants
Jan’s Towing, Inc. (“Jan’s”), Ritter Lien Sales, Inc., Abdulla Yaghi, and Does
1 to 20 alleging claims for general negligence, motor vehicle tort, and
intentional tort. 
On
May 12, 2022, Jan's and Abdalla Yaghi, erroneously sued as Abdulla Yaghi
(“Yaghi”), filed an answer. 
Also
on May 12, 2022, Cross-Complainant Jan’s and purported Cross-Complainant Route
66 Car Wash, Inc.[1]
(“Route 66”) filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Abdi Manavi, Auto
Care, Inc., Eric Raymond Fascia (“Fascia”), and Roes 1-20 for apportionment of
fault, indemnification, third party tort of another, breach of contract, and
common counts. 
On
May 27, 2022, the Court dismissed Ritter Lien Sales, Inc. without prejudice at
Plaintiff’s request. 
On
June 16, 2022, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Abdi Manavi filed an answer to the
cross-complaint. 
On August 14, 2023, the Court entered Fascia’s default
on the cross-complaint. 
On
January 5, 2024, Fascia filed a motion to vacate default to be heard on
February 29, 2024.  No opposition has been filed.
Trial
is currently scheduled for September 16, 2024. 
PARTY’S REQUEST 
Fascia
asks the Court to set aside his default. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
          Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), provides
in part: 
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve
a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order,
or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (b).) 
DISCUSSION 
          Fascia has submitted a declaration stating that he failed
to file a timely response to the cross-complaint because he did not understand that
he needed to respond.  When he received notice
of the default, he consulted with counsel and is now prepared to file an answer. 
The
Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Cross-Defendant Eric Raymond Fascia’s motion to set aside the default.  The Court sets aside the default entered on August 14, 2023.  The Court orders Cross-Defendant Eric Raymond Fascia to file an answer
or other responsive pleading within five days of the hearing on this motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days. 

