 Case Number:  23AHCV01255    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ENERGY SANRIO INVESTMENT LLC, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
A1 ENT
   INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCV01255
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: APPLICATION FOR DEFAULT JUDGMENT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
June 7,
  2024




 


)


 



 
Plaintiff Energy Sanrio Investment LLC
(“Plaintiff”) requests a default judgment against defendants A1 Ent Inc. and K Music
Entertainment Inc. (collectively, “Defendants”). In a previous minute order,
the Court ordered Plaintiff to submit a computation of interest and a revised
proposed judgment. Plaintiff submitted the declaration of Mingxu Sun on May 23,
2024, which provided the requisite calculation of prejudgment interest. However,
the revised proposed judgment, filed on May 23, 2024, remains deficient because
it does not specify the amount in costs that Defendants are each responsible for.
 
The hearing is continued to August 5, 2024,
at 8:30 a.m. in Department 3 of the Alhambra Courthouse. A new proposed
judgment must be submitted no later than 5 court days before the date of the
hearing. 
 
Dated
this 7th
day of June, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 