 Case Number:  23AHCP00478    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



SEAN E. ROGERS, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
PASACA
   CAPITAL, INC., et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  23AHCP00478
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: VERIFIED PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE TO COMPEL CORPORATION
   TO PERMIT INSPECTION OF CORPORATE RECORDS 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
June 7,
  2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On November 13, 2023, Sean E. Rogers (“Petitioner”)
filed this petition for a writ of mandate ordering respondent Pasaca Capital,
Inc. (“Pasaca”) and its controlling stockholder, respondent Charles Huang
(“Huang”) to allow the inspection and copying of Pasaca’s corporate records. 
On January 9, 2024, Pasaca and Huang
(collectively, “Respondents”) filed a response. The response and supporting
papers were ordered sealed by the Honorable Margaret L. Oldendorf on February
2, 2024, and unredacted copies were filed on February 26, 2024. 
On January 19, 2024, Petitioner filed a
reply brief with redactions. On February 27, 2024, Petitioner filed a reply
brief under seal. 
On May 6, 2024, the Court heard oral
argument and the hearing was continued to permit supplemental briefing to be
filed by May 24, 2024.
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
Corporations Code section 1601 provides in
relevant part: “The accounting books, records, and minutes of proceedings of
the shareholders and the board and committees of the board of any domestic
corporation, and of any foreign corporation keeping any records in this state
or having its principal office in California, or a true and accurate copy
thereof if the original has been lost, destroyed, or is not normally physically
located within this state shall be open to inspection at the corporation’s
principal office in California, or if none, at the physical location for the
corporation’s registered agent for service of process in this state, upon the
written demand on the corporation of any shareholder or holder of a voting
trust certificate at any reasonable time during usual business hours, for a
purpose reasonably related to the holder’s interests as a shareholder or as the
holder of a voting trust certificate.” (Corp. Code § 1601(a)(1).) “Upon refusal of a lawful demand for
inspection, the superior court of the proper county, may enforce the right of
inspection with just and proper conditions . . .” (Id., § 1603.)
Corporations Code section 1602 governs
the inspection rights of a director. This is an “absolute right at any
reasonable time to inspect and copy all books, records and documents of every
kind and to inspect the physical properties of the corporation of which such
person is a director and also of its subsidiary corporations, domestic or
foreign....” This section applies to a director of any foreign corporation
having its principal office in California or customarily holding meetings of
its board in California.” (Corp. Code, § 1602.) 
III.       
DISCUSSION
A.  
Background
and Procedural History
Petitioner states that during the
COVID-19 crisis, he was solicited by Respondents and induced to serve as a
director for Pasaca and its Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), as well as a
director of Pasaca’s most profitable subsidiary, Innova Medical Group, Inc.
(“Innova”). (Petition, ¶ 2.) Eventually, he was terminated from employment at
both Pasaca and Innova after being accused of self-dealing and other
malfeasance. (Petition, ¶ 3.) 
Prior to his removal as a director, Petitioner
demanded, pursuant to Corporations Code section 1602, to inspect and copy
Pasaca’s corporate records as well as those of its subsidiaries. (Petition, ¶
4.) Pasaca responded by immediately removing Petitioner as a director and
refusing his inspection demand on the basis of his removal. (Petition, ¶ 5.) Petitioner
renewed his demand on May 8, 2023, which Pasaca rejected on May 17, 2023, on
the ground that Petitioner did not have any rights under Corporation Code
section 1602 because Petitioner was no longer a director. (Petition, Exs. 1-2.)

On May 26, 2023, Petitioner made a
demand pursuant to Corporations Code section 1601 to inspect the accounting
books, records, and minutes of proceedings of the shareholders and the board
and committees of the board of Pasaca. (Petition, Ex. 3.) Pasaca rejected this
demand on the grounds that Petitioner did not demonstrate a proper purpose for
inspection in light of Pasca’s internal investigation of Petitioner and
Petitioner’s apparently adverse interests. (Petition, Ex. 4.) 
On October 20, 2023, Petitioner renewed
his demands made pursuant to Corporations Code sections 1601 and 1602. This
final demand included two schedules identifying specific categories of
documents which Petitioner wished to inspect. (Petition, Ex. 5.) Pasaca
rejected both demands on October 27, 2023. (Petition, Ex. 6.)  
B.  
Petitioner’s
Right to Inspect Corporate Records as a Former Director
Respondents advance three arguments in
opposition to Petitioner’s asserted right to inspect corporate records as a
former director.  It remains unpersuaded
that such inspection is precluded either by the internal affairs doctrine or
judicial estoppel arguments advanced by Respondents. Respondents also argue,
however, that Petitioner no longer has standing to assert a right to inspect
Pasaca’s records because Petitioner is no longer a director. (Response, p. 13.)
After hearing oral argument and considering the parties’ supplemental briefs,
the Court finds this argument persuasive. The Court addresses each argument in
turn.
With respect to Petitioner’s inspection
rights as a former director, Respondents argue that as a threshold matter, Corporations
Code section 1602 does not apply because Pasaca is incorporated in Nevada and
the internal affairs doctrine requires the application of Nevada law. “The
internal affairs doctrine is a conflict of laws principle which recognizes that
only one State should have the authority to regulate a corporation's internal
affairs . . .  because otherwise a
corporation could be faced with conflicting demands.” 
(Edgar v. MITE Corp. (1988) 457 U.S. 624, 645.) Respondents
rely on Boschetti v. Pac. Bay Investments Inc. (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th
1059, 1067-1068, which the Court finds inapposite because it involved the
dissolution of foreign business entities. The Boschetti court stated
that the “continuing existence of [] entities and the relations of the partners
or members of the entities” were at stake, and quoted several out-of-state
cases recognizing that dissolution was governed by local laws because “no
affair is more internal than a claim that could result in the termination of the
existence of the corporation.” (Boschetti, at p. 1067.) 
Instead, this Court finds Havliceck
v. Coast-to-Coast Analytical Servs., Inc. (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1844 instructive.
The Havliceck court held that the internal affairs doctrine did not
apply because a director’s inspection rights under California law was not
contrary to Delaware law. Respondents cite to no Nevada statute – and the Court
is unaware of any – which restricts the inspection rights of its directors. 
The Court also finds Valtz v. Penta
Investment Corp. (1983) 139 Cal.App.3d 803 instructive. The Valtz
court stated that a shareholder’s right to inspect records is “incidental to
the ownership of stock, affects the relationship between corporation and
shareholder, and is thus subject to regulation by statute where the corporation
does business.” (Valtz, at p. 807.) Although Valtz concerned a
shareholder’s right to inspect a shareholder list under a different statute
than section 1602, the right to inspect a shareholder register is considered
“sufficiently closely related [to the right to inspect other records] to make
decisions dealing with one section authority for cases dealing with the other.”
(Most v. First Nat. Bank of San Diego (1966) 246 Cal.App.2d 425, 430.)
Furthermore, California has an explicit
interest in affording broad inspection rights to directors.  Section 1602 applies to “a director of any
foreign corporation having its principal office in California or customarily
holding meetings of its board in California” foreign corporations with their
principal office in California.” (Corp. Code, § 1602; see Boschetti, supra,
32 Cal.App.5th at p. 1069 [relying on statutory interpretation and limits
expressed within statutes to determine existence of vital state interest].) 
The Court next addresses Respondents’
argument about judicial estoppel. In California, courts consider five factors
in determining whether to apply judicial estoppel: (1) the same party has taken
two positions; (2) the positions were taken in judicial or quasi-judicial
administrative proceedings; (3) the party was successful in asserting the first
position (i.e., the tribunal adopted the position or accepted it as true); (4)
the two positions are totally inconsistent; and (5) the first position was not
taken as a result of ignorance, fraud, or mistake. (Gottlieb v. Kest
(2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 110, 131.) 
Here, Respondents claim that Petitioner
is estopped from arguing that Nevada law does not apply because he has already
conceded that it does in a different proceeding. (Response, pp. 12-13.) But
this other proceeding does not involve and is not related to any inspection
rights Petitioner may have. Moreover, judicial estoppel is an equitable
doctrine, and its application, even where all necessary elements are present,
is discretionary. (MW Erectors, Inc. v. Niederhauser Ornamental & Metal
Works Co., Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 412, 422.) Therefore, given the California
Legislature’s strong endorsement of public policy permitting directors to
inspect records, and the extensive connections Pasaca has with California, the
Court declines to conclude that Petitioner is judicially estopped from asserting
that Nevada law governs Pasaca for all purposes. 
Finally, and as indicated above,
persuasively, Respondents also argue that Petitioner no longer has standing to
assert a right to inspect Pasaca’s records because Petitioner is no longer a
director. (Response, p. 13.) The Court is persuaded by oral argument and the
parties’ supplemental briefing with respect to governing authority, that Petitioner
no longer has standing to assert a right to inspect Pasaca’s records because
Petitioner is no longer a director. 
In Petitioner’s renewed inspection
demand dated October 20, 2023, Petitioner argued that although he was no longer
a director, he maintained a right of inspection as a former director “to the
extent necessary to protect [himself] from personal liability for acts
purportedly committed during [his] term as a director.” (Petition, Ex. 5, p. 2.)
Petitioner cited to Wolf v. CDS Devco (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 903,
921-922, in which a former corporate director argued he should be able to
inspect records in order to be able to defend against personal exposure to
liability. The corporate director in Wolf relied on Cohen v. Cocoline
Products, Inc. (1955) 309 N.Y. 119, 124, and claimed he had a “qualified
right [as a discharged director]… covering a period of his directorship,
whenever in the discretion of the trial court he can make a proper showing by
appropriate evidence that such inspection is necessary to protect his personal
responsibility interest as well as the interest of the stockholders.” (Wolf,
supra, 185 Cal.App.4th at pp. 922-923.) The Wolf court made no
determination about the validity of this qualified right, but instead ruled
that the corporate director did not “show[] facts to support assertions of
continued inspection rights of a director on the basis that personal liability
is a realistic threat.” (Id. at p. 922.) 
More recently, in Fowler v. Golden
Pacific Bancorp, Inc. (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 205, the Third Appellate
District determined that the petitioner lost standing to assert director’s
inspection rights after the company was acquired by another and the petitioner
was no longer a member of the board of directors. (Id., p. 210.) The Fowler
court stated, “It is well established that a director’s right to inspect
corporate books and records ends upon his or her removal from office.” (Id.
at p. 216 [citing Chantiles v. Lake Forest II Master Homeowners Assn. (1995)
37 Cal.App.4th 914, 920].) The Fowler court also cited to Wolf and
asserted that “[a] former director has no right to an ongoing and enforceable
right to inspect corporate records.” (Id at p. 216 [citing to Wolf,
supra, 185 Cal.App.4th at p. 919.) Thus, the Fowler court was
aware of Wolf and the potential existence of an ongoing qualified right
of inspection via out-of-state authorities such as Cohen. Nevertheless, the
Fowler court declined to include any discussion of such right and simply
concluded that the issue of inspection was moot “because [the petitioner] [was]
no longer a member of [the company’s] board of directors and therefore ha[d] no
director’s inspection rights.” (Id., p. 211.) The Court here is swayed
by what appears to be a deliberate lacuna in Fowler, as well as the fact
that in the 14 years since Wolf was decided no California appellate court
has ventured to establish a former director’s ongoing qualified right of
inspection. 
Accordingly, the Petition with respect
to the inspection demand pursuant to Corporations Code section 1602, attached
as Schedule 1 of Exhibit 5 to the Petition, is DENIED.  
C.  
Petitioner’s
Inspection Rights as a Shareholder 
Although Petitioner may not have any inspection
rights as a former director, Petitioner possesses inspection rights as a
shareholder pursuant to Corporations Code section 1601. 
Respondents again argue that as an
initial matter Nevada law applies due to the internal affairs doctrine and that
Petitioner does not have a right to inspect Pasaca’s records under Nevada law
because Petitioner is not a shareholder with a 15% stake or more. (NRS
78.257(1).) The Court incorporates its analysis of the applicability of the
internal affairs doctrine to inspection rights as stated in Section B and adds that
section 1601 is not only applicable to foreign corporations with their
principal offices in California, but “any foreign corporation keeping any
records in this state.” This statutory language suggests that California has an
even stronger interest in shareholders’ inspection rights than those of
directors. (Compare Corp. Code, § 1601, subd. (a)(1), with § 1602.) 
Next, Respondents argue that although Petitioner’s
demand letter specified that the purpose for inspecting Pasaca’s records was to
determine the value of his shares and whether to sell his interests in the
corporation, his stated purpose is belied by the broad scope of documents
identified in his demand. (Petition, Ex. 3, Response, p. 16.) Respondents suggest
Petitioner’s true motivation is to harass Pasaca and they argue that Petitioner
has competing interests which would make “disclosure of any records to him
problematic.” (Response, p. 16.) 
A corporation has the burden of proving
that the member “will allow use of the information for purposes unrelated to
the person's interest as a member.” (WorldMark, the Club v. Wyndham Resort
Development Corp. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 1017, 1029.) Therefore, the burden
falls on Respondents to produce evidence that Petitioner’s stated purpose for
the records is a sham and that Petitioner’s inspection demand is a “fishing
expedition” or an attempt to circumvent discovery in another proceeding. (Homestake
Mining Co. v. Superior Court of City and County of San Francisco (1936) 11
Cal.App.2d 488, 497.) In merely providing a conclusory statement of adverse
interests and identifying some theoretical impact, Respondents fail to meet
that burden. (Response, pp. 15-16.)  
Respondents also argue that tax sharing
agreements, tax returns, information related to audits and claims asserted by
taxing authorities, or tax disputes are not “reasonably related” to the stated
purpose of determining the value of Petitioner’s shares. The Court disagrees; these
documents confirm the accuracy of the liabilities and earnings reported on
financial statements and in turn, inform Petitioner of the value of his shares
(and whether he should sell them). Moreover, despite Respondents’ unsubstantiated
complaints about the volume of documents which would need to be produced, the Court
notes that the accounting books and records demanded are mostly limited to
those for the last two to five fiscal years. 
Respondents additionally argue that Petitioner’s
request for documents is overbroad because he cannot demand records of Pasaca’s
subsidiaries. However, the right of inspection created by section 1601 “shall
extend to the records of each subsidiary of a corporation subject to this
subdivision.” (Corp. Code, § 1601.) Therefore, Respondent’s argument that the
demand is overbroad merely because it seeks records from subsidiaries is not
well-taken. 
Lastly, the Court addresses Petitioner’s
request for shareholder lists and registers, stock ledgers, and other documents
relating to Pasaca’s securities issuances and sales, listed in Schedule 2, Category
C of Exhibit 5 to the Petition. In a previous tentative ruling, the Court determined
that these documents did not fall within the types of records made available
through Corporations Code section 1601. In his supplemental brief, Petitioner
argues that documents related to securities issuances and sales were allowed pursuant
to amendments enacted through Assembly Bill 2237 because the amendments identified
3 categories available for inspection: (1) accounting books, (2) records, and
(3) minutes. Legislative materials do not indicate any intent to create a
separate category of “records” to include all documents relating to securities.
Rather, the amendment enacted by AB 2237 only concerned the method of
inspection. Specifically, the bill would “permit. . . a true and accurate copy
of [accounting books, records, and minutes] to be open to inspection at the
corporation's principal office in this state or, if there is none, at the
physical location for the corporation's registered agent for service of process.”

But even if AB 2237 created a third
catch-all category for “records”, the Court is not persuaded by Petitioner’s argument
that the vast majority of documents in Category 3, except for the NOBO
(Non-Objecting Beneficial Owner) list, are part of Pasaca’s accounting books
and records. (Supp. Brief at pp. 5-6.) Petitioner made a similar argument at
the hearing, stating that “[r]ecords of share issuances are a required piece of
a company’s financial statements” and emphasizing that a company must record
share issuances on at least three out of four financial statements that
constitute standard accounting records: the balance sheet, statement of cash
flows, and the statement of stockholders’ equity. (Hearing Transcript, p. 5.) Petitioner
further argued at the hearing that “accounting records” includes documents such
as redemption agreements, and documents related to options, warrants, and other
derivative securities. (Id., pp. 5-6.) 
An examination of the Corporations Code
suggests that some of the documents and information requested in Category 3 are
not included within the scope of Corporations Code section 1601. Corporations
Code section 1500 requires each corporation to “keep adequate and correct books
and records of account” and “minutes of the proceedings of its shareholders,
board and committees of the board.” Section 1500 also requires corporations to “keep
. . . a record of its shareholders, giving the names and addresses of all
shareholders and the number and class of shares held by each”, which is also
known as a share register. Therefore, the statute requiring recordkeeping acknowledges
that shareholder records are different from other financial records and
minutes. 
In addition, Corporations Code section
1600 provides an “absolute right” to inspect and copy the record of
shareholders' names and addresses and shareholdings, although this absolute right
is limited to “a shareholder or shareholders holding at least 5 percent in the
aggregate of the outstanding voting shares of a corporation or who hold at
least 1 percent of those voting shares and have filed a Schedule 14A with the
United States Securities and Exchange Commission.” (Corp. Code, § 1600, subd.
(a).) The record of shareholders is also available for inspection by any
shareholder “for a purpose reasonably related to such holder’s interests as a
shareholder or holder of a voting trust certificate.” (Id., subd. (c).) 
Adopting Petitioner’s position and
extending the definition of “records” to include all documents and information relating
to securities issuances would essentially conflate the two inspection schemes provided
for in sections 1600 and 1601 and their respective differences. In light of
these statutory provisions, the “record of shareholders”, stock ledger, and any
documents listing share owners, their addresses, and respective shareholdings,
as identified in Demand Nos. 1 through 4, are not part of Pasaca’s “records”
for purposes of an inspection under section 1601. The records demanded in Nos.
5-10, insofar as they relate to the value (or dilution or increase in the
value) of shares would be considered “records” for purposes of an inspection
demand under section 1601, except that, information about specific shareholders’
names, addresses, and holdings included or embedded in those documents are not considered
part of those records available for inspection under section 1601. The Court
expresses no opinion on whether Petitioner would be entitled to that
information pursuant to a section 1600 inspection demand. 
D.  Whether Huang Should Be Dismissed
Respondents argue that Huang is
improperly named in this petition because he is an individual who is not
responsible for providing corporate records under Corporations Code sections
1601 or 1602, nor a corporate entity. (Response, p. 17.) In his reply, Petitioner
argues that Huang is joined as an alter ego of Pasaca. (Reply, p. 14.) Petitioner
states that Huang is Pasaca’s majority shareholder and dominates the
corporation, “exercising unfettered control over its affairs”, such that there
is no real separation between the two. (Ibid.) Huang is also Pasaca’s current
Chairman and its Chief Financial Officer. Petitioner further claims that Huang engaged
in self-dealing and treated Pasaca and its assets as Huang’s personal property
and resisted Petitioner’s attempts to establish a corporate compliance program,
corporate governance policies, or any controls and procedures at Pasaca and its
portfolio companies. (Petition, ¶ 24.) 
A plaintiff seeking to invoke the alter
ego doctrine must prove two conditions: (1) unity of interest and ownership
between the two entities and (2) an inequitable result if the two entities are
not equally liable. (Constellation-F, LLC v. World Trading 23, Inc.
(2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 22, 30.) Here, Petitioner argues that Huang will likely
continue to deny Petitioner his inspection rights and deprive Petitioner of the
benefit of the Court’s order. (Reply, p. 14.) But any finding of alter ego
liability would be preemptive and the possibility that Pasaca will not comply
with the Court’s writ is insufficient to show that inequity would result. 
IV.       
CONCLUSION
The Petition is GRANTED in part. The
Court issues a peremptory writ ordering Pasaca to permit Petitioner’s
inspection and copying of Pasaca’s accounting books, records, and minutes of
proceedings as identified in Exhibit 5, Schedule 2, Categories A and B, as well
as those of Pasaca’s subsidiaries keeping any records in, or having its
principal office in, California, consistent with Corporations Code section
1601. Petitioner is also permitted to inspect the records identified in Category
C, Demand Nos. 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10, so long as the shareholders’ names, addresses,
and their respective shareholdings are redacted. Petitioner will not have any
access to documents protected by the attorney-client privilege or work product
doctrine. 
The Petition is DENIED as to Huang. 
Petitioner’s request for fees and costs
pursuant to Corporations Code section 1604 is DENIED. Pasaca did not act
without justification when refusing Petitioner’s shareholder inspection demand because
the applicability of the internal affairs doctrine is somewhat ambiguous and a
little over half of the demands included in Category C were unavailable under section
1601. 
Dated
this 7th
day of June, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.