  Case Number:  23STCV12948    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2023    Dept:  40 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



WAWANESA GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
CHERYL LYN MARTINEZ, an individual; JOYCE ROBLES, an individual;
  and DOES 1 through 30, inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          23STCV12948
 Hearing Date:   11/6/23
 Trial Date:        N/A
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendants Cheryl
  Lyn Martinez and Joyce Robles’s Demurrer to Complaint of Wawanesa General
  Insurance Company.



 
Background
Plaintiff Wawanesa General Insurance Company sues Defendants Cheryl Lyn
Martinez, Joyce Robles, and Does 1 through 30 pursuant to a June 7, 2023
Complaint alleging a single claim for declaratory relief.
Wawanesa seeks a declaration of rights
and duties between the parties in relation to insurance coverage bargained for
by Defendants with Wawanesa and pursuant to which Defendants seek a payout
connected to a January 10, 2022 accident involving Defendant Martinez and an
uninsured motorist. Specifically, Wawanesa seeks a judgment declaring that no
rights, duties, or obligations arose, exist, or may in the future arise or
exist under and by virtue of the provisions of the Wawanesa policy and with
respect to the claims for benefits and/or coverage under the Wawanesa policy
made by Defendants and Does 1 through 30, which arose out of the alleged
January 10, 2022 accident.
On August 30, 2023, Defendants
filed a demurrer to the Complaint’s declaratory relief claim based on res
judicata, insufficiency of pleading, the existence of an agreement to
arbitrate, and the failure to comply with court orders requiring the parties to
submit to arbitration.
On October 19, 2023, Wawanesa
opposed the demurrer.
On November 2, 2023, Defendants replied
to the opposition.
Defendants Martinez and Robles’s
demurrer is now before the Court.
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
Per the request of Defendants, the
Court takes judicial notice of the papers filed by the parties and the rulings made
by Department 53 in relation to motions to compel arbitration (granted) and for
reconsideration (denied) in Los Angeles Superior Court action 22STCP03407 (the
Underlying Action). (Demurrer, RJN, Exs. A-B; see Julian Volunteer Fire Co.
Assn. v. Julian-Cuyamaca Fire Protection Dist. (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 583,
600 [judicial notice may be taken as to existence of document and legal effects
deriving therefrom].)
The Court notes that no notice of
related case appears in the record for the Underlying Action, nor in the record
for this action.
 
Demurrer
Legal
Standard
A defendant can file a special demurrer to a complaint
under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (c) on the ground
that there is another action pending between the same parties on the same cause
of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (c); see Bescos v. Bank of Am.
(2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 378, 396-97.) A demurrer filed on this ground is
sometimes referred to as a plea in abatement. (See Plant Insulation Co. v.
Fibreboard Corp. (1992) 224 Cal.App.3d 781, 787 (Plant Insulation).)
If a demurrer is sustained on this ground, the second action should be stayed,
but not dismissed, pending the termination of the first action. (Id. at
p. 788.) To success on a plea in abatement demurrer, the movant must show three
things: (1) there are multiple actions pending in California courts (Leadford
v. Leadford (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 571, 574 (Leadford)); (2) the
parties in both actions are the same and stand in the same relative position as
plaintiff and defendant (see Plant Insulation, supra, at p. 787);
and (3) both actions are based on substantially the same cause of action, i.e.,
judgment in the first action would bar recovery in the second action (Lord
v. Garland (1946) 27 Cal.2d 840, 848 (Lord)).

Order
Sustaining Demurrer: CONTINUED.
A
pending civil case is related to another pending civil case, or to a civil case
that was dismissed with or without prejudice, or to a civil case that was
disposed of by judgment, if the cases: (1) involve the same parties and are
based on the same or similar claims; (2) arise from the same or substantially
identical transactions, incidents, or events requiring the determination of the
same or substantially identical questions of law or fact; (3) involve claims
against, title to, possession of, or damages to the same property; or (4) are
likely for other reasons to require substantial duplication of judicial
resources if heard by different judges. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.300, subd.
(a).)
Whenever
a party in a civil action knows or learns that the action or proceeding is
related to another action or proceeding pending, dismissed, or disposed of by
judgment in any state or federal court in California, the party must serve and
file a Notice of Related Case. (Cal. Rules of Court, 3.300, subd. (b).)
Here,
the parties in essence agree that the Underlying Action is related to this
action. Defendants Martinez and Robles’s demurrer is premised on the idea that
the issues and orders in the Underlying Action prohibit this action from moving
forward. (See Demurrer, pp. 6-9.) Plaintiff Wawanesa recognizes that “[i]f the
Court ultimately rules that no rights, duties, or obligations exist for
Defendants’ claims under the provisions of the Wawanesa policy, whether or not
Defendants have a right to collect damages from the uninsured motorist becomes
moot.” (Opp’n, p. 6.)
However,
neither Defendants nor Plaintiff have filed a notice of related case in this
action or in the Underlying Action.
Under
the Rules of Court, if two matters are pending in an unlimited civil court,
then the court with the earliest filed case must make the determination as to whether
the parties are related within the meaning of rule 3.300. (Rules of Court, rule
3.300 subd. (h)(1)(A). Here, the case in Department 53 was the first filed
case. Therefore, this Court will continue this matter to give the Court in Department
53 the opportunity to rule on whether the cases are related. The Court notes
that if Department 53 relates this case to the Underlying Action, then this
action would be transferred to Department 53. In turn, if Department 53 does
not relate the two actions, that determination could factor into a ruling by
this Court as to whether this action should be stayed or a demurrer sustained based
on the pendency of the Underlying Action.
The
Court thus CONTINUES the hearing on Defendants’ demurrer to give the parties
the opportunity to file a notice of related case in this and in the Underlying
Action. 

Conclusion
Defendants Cheryl Lyn Martinez and
Joyce Robles’s Demurrer to Complaint of Wawanesa General Insurance Company is CONTINUED
to January 22, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
The parties are hereby ORDERED to
file a Notice of Related case in both this and the 22STCP03407 matter within 5 court
days. 