 Case Number:  23STCV19098    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint filed by Plaintiffs
the Estate of Bing Wang, by and through its Successor-in-Interest Xiaomei Wang,
Xiaomei Wang, and Wenxuan Wang.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
The case arises out of a fatal automobile accident on June 7,
2023, on La Cienega Boulevard in the Pico-Robertson area of Los Angeles.  Plaintiffs The Estate of Bing Wang (by and
through its successor-in-interest Xiaomei Wang), Xiaomei Wang, and Wenxuan Wang
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed the Complaint in this action on August 10,
2023, asserting causes of action for wrongful death/negligence, negligence,
negligent infliction of emotional distress, and loss of consortium against
Defendant DoorDash, Inc. (“DoorDash”), Vladimir Tishchenko (“Tishchenko”), and
Does 1 through 10.
DoorDash and Tishchenko filed their Answers to the Complaint
on September 26 and October 17, 2023.
On February
7, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this motion for leave to amend the complaint to add
punitive damages.
 
No
opposition to this motion has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
CCP §
472(a) provides “[a] party may amend its pleading once without leave of the
court at any time before the answer, demurrer, or motion to strike is filed, or
after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed but before the demurrer or motion
to strike is heard if the amended pleading is filed and served no later than
the date for filing an opposition to the demurrer or motion to strike.”
 
CCP §
473(a)(1) provides, in relevant part: 
“The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be
proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking
out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party,
or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time
for answer or demurrer.  The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”  
 
“This
discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial
policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”  (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) 
Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of the proposed
amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer
or motion to strike are premature.  The
court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed
amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the
defect cannot be cured by further amendment. 
(See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985)
173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281, overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American
Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.) 
 
Under
CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of
the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located;
and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.  
 
Under
CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must
specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and
proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.  
 
Even if
a good amendment is proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused
delay in presenting it may be a good reason for denial.  In most cases, the factors for timeliness
are: (1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the
amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the
adverse party.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists
where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of
critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden of
discovery.  (Magpali v. Farmers Group,
Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.) 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiffs
request leave to amend their complaint to add punitive damages and facts to
support “Defendants’ conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s rights and safety.”
(Motion, 6:25-25.) Plaintiffs contend the motion is timely, as it comes after
completing the depositions of key witnesses including Defendant Vladimir
Tishchenko. (Id., 9:1-3.) They also argue the amendment will not
prejudice parties as trial is still over a year from now and there is time to
adequately prepare for trial. (Id., 9:9-12.) Lastly, the amendments are
permissible as they arise out of the same events/injury to Plaintiffs, are in
furtherance of justice and judicial expediency, and “California courts have
consistently held that such amendments should be liberally permitted.” (Id.,
9:13-17.)
 
Under
CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of
the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located;
and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.  
 
Plaintiffs
include as Exhibit 12 a copy of the First Amended Complaint. Further,
Plaintiffs list the proposed additions in the notice of the motion and
Declaration of Robert Glassman including the paragraph number with each
addition. 
 
Under
CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must
specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and
proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.  
 
In the
Declaration of Robert Glassman, Plaintiffs’ counsel addresses each of these
issues 
 
The
Court finds that Plaintiffs have satisfied the substantive and procedural requirements
for leave to amend.  Accordingly, the
motion is granted.
 
The Court
expresses no views as to the merits of the new allegations.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’
motion for leave to amend is GRANTED. 
 
The Court
GRANTS Plaintiffs leave to file the amended complaint attached to their motion
within 14 days.
 
Moving
Party is to give notice.