 Case Number:  19STCV38999    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  31 DEPT:  31 HEARING DATE: 09/25/2023 CASE NAME/NUMBER: 19STCV38999; ROMEL ROQUE v. RIVERA, et al. PETITION TO APPROVE COMPROMISE OF PENDING ACTION OF A MINOR Romel Roque, Age 16 Blake Capanna, Age 12 RECOMMENDATION: DENY  TENTATIVE¿ ¿  The Court has reviewed the Petition to Approve Compromise of Pending Action of a Minor Romel Roque (“Roque”), Age 16 and Blake Capanna (“Capanna”), Age 12 (collectively, “Claimants”).   The parties have agreed to settle all claims for the total amount of $15,500.  CLAIMANT ROQUE  Of the settlement amount, $14,000 is to be apportioned to Roque. Pertaining to Roque, if the settlement is approved, $2,511.57 will be used for expenses, $1,360.02 for medical expenses, and $3,500 for attorneys’ fees. Petitioner does not indicate where the net balance of $6,628.41 will be placed on the petition.    CLAIMANT CAPANNA  Of the settlement amount, $1,500 is to be apportioned to Capanna. Pertaining to Capanna, if the settlement is approved, $30 will be used for expenses, $33.12 for medical expenses, and $375 for attorneys’ fees. Petitioner does not indicate where the net balance of $1,061.88 will be placed on the petition.    The Court has reviewed and denies the petitions for the following reasons:   CLAIMANT ROQUE  MC-350EX requests Petitioner to check all boxes that apply. Petitioner provides she is the parent. However, Petitioner is also Roque’s guardian ad litem. Petitioner must mark all boxes that apply.   Petitioner provides on Item 4(a) that the claim of the minor is not subject to a pending action. However, the claim is subject to a pending action, which is the underlying action currently before this Court in which a settlement agreement had been reached.   Petitioner indicates Roque sustained injuries as a result of the incident. However, Roque does not indicate on Item 9 whether Roque had recovered from his injuries.   Item 14(b) requests expenses in the amount of $2,511.57 for “Costs (filing fees, etc.).” Petitioner, through counsel, must provide an itemization of the specific expense sought for the Court to determine if the costs are allowable; “etc.” is insufficient.   Petitioner provides that attorney’s fees are to be paid from the proceeds of Roque’s settlement. However, the Court notes that in Capanna’s petition, Item 18, that it indicates the attorney has neither received nor expects to receive attorney’s fees or other compensation related to the claim. If the attorney is requesting fees from both of Claimant’s portion of the settlement, Item 18(b) must be filled appropriately.   Item 19 does not indicate the disposition of the balance to Roque and where the settlement is to be disbursed. Petitioner must checkmark the appropriate box. Furthermore, the Attachment 11c “settlement funds are to be disbursed via check in one lump sum” does not indicate to whom or where the settlement funds are to be disbursed to. The Court notes that Petitioner filed an order to deposit funds in blocked account on MC-355; if the net proceeds are to be placed in a blocked account, then Petitioner must indicate as such on Item 19(b)(2) on MC-350EX and provide an Attachment 19b(2) indicating the name, branch, and address of the depository. Additionally, Petitioner filed two MC-355 forms for Roque.  Petitioner provides that the settlement payments are apportioned between the claimant and each other plaintiff or claimant named above on a pro rata basis, based upon the special damages claimed by each. The special damages claimed by each other plaintiff or claimant are specified on Attachment 12. However, Attachment 12 merely provides: “Damages claimed by Plaintiff, Blake Capanna are as follows: general negligence; personal injury.” The legal theory upon which Capanna claims damages for does not meet the criteria, which requests the special damages to be specified.   CLAIMANT CAPANNA  MC-350EX requests Petitioner to check all boxes that apply. Petitioner provides she is the parent. However, Petitioner is also Capanna’s guardian ad litem. Petitioner must mark all boxes that apply.   Petitioner provides on Item 4(a) that the claim of the minor is not subject to a pending action. However, the claim is subject to a pending action, which is the underlying action currently before this Court in which a settlement agreement had been reached.   Item 14(b) requests expenses in the amount of $30 for “Costs (filing fees, etc.).” Petitioner, through counsel, must provide an itemization of the specific expense sought.   Petitioner provides that attorney’s fees are to be paid from the proceeds of Capanna’s settlement. However, the Court notes that in Roque’s petition, Item 18, that it indicates the attorney has neither received nor expects to receive attorney’s fees or other compensation related to the claim. If the attorney is requesting fees from both of Claimant’s portion of the settlement, Item 18(b) must be filled appropriately.   Item 19 does not indicate the disposition of the balance to Capanna and where the settlement is to be disbursed. Petitioner must checkmark the appropriate box. Furthermore, the Attachment 11c “settlement funds are to be disbursed via check in one lump sum” does not indicate to whom or where the settlement funds are to be disbursed to.   Petitioner provides that the settlement payments are apportioned between the claimant and each other plaintiff or claimant named above on a pro rata basis, based upon the special damages claimed by each. The special damages claimed by each other plaintiff or claimant are specified on Attachment 12. However, Attachment 12 merely provides: “Damages claimed by Plaintiff Romel Roque are as follows: general negligence; personal injury.” The legal theory upon which Roque claims damages for does not meet the criteria, which requests the special damages to be specified.   In the amended petitions, Petitioner must cure all the above noted defects.  Moving party is ordered to give notice. 