 Case Number:  24STCV05809    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  34 Abrar v. King (24STCV05809)
 
Defendant Tayfun Paul Kadioglu’s Motion to Set Aside Order and/or for Reconsideration is DENIED. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff Shahram Pascal Abrar, assignee of Yellow Hope
Holdings, LLC (“Plaintiff”), alleges
as follows: 
 
On May 23, 2022, Tayfun Paul Kadioglu, erroneously
sued as Tayfun King (“Kadioglu” or “Defendant”),
entered into a written residential lease agreement with Plaintiff to pay
$18,500.00 per month until May 31, 2024. Defendant failed to make his monthly
rent payments as agreed and owes past-due rent in the amount of $65,500.00. On
February 21, 2024, Plaintiff personally served Defendant with notice to vacate
or pay rent. Defendant has failed to vacate the premises or pay the past-due
rent amount.
 
On August 16, 2024, the court
granted Defendant’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings. 
 
Legal Standard
 
            CCP § 473(b)
 
Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 473(b):
The court may, upon any terms as
may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her own mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  
. . . 
Notwithstanding any other requirements
of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client,
unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by
the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.  
 
(CCP § 473(b) (emphasis added).)  
 
            CCP § 1008(a)
 
“When an application for an order has been
made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or
granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within
10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order
and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application
to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and
modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall
state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge,
what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts,
circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008(a).) 
 
“While a party has the right to
‘communicat[e] the view to a court that it should reconsider a prior ruling’ (Le
Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1108), the party should not ‘file
a written motion to reconsider’ if it cannot satisfy the procedural
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 1008 (35 Cal.4th at p. 1108).
‘The court
need not rule on any suggestion that it should reconsider a previous ruling . .
.’ (Ibid.)” (Farmers Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court
(2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 96, 102, fn. 10 [emphasis in original].) 
 
Discussion 
 
Plaintiff moves the court to set
aside its order filed August 16, 2024 and/or for reconsideration of the court’s
granting of Defendant’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings.
 
Plaintiff first contends that
relief should be granted under section 473(b) because his central focus at the
hearing on the Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings concerned the purpose of
the ordinance at issue in the three-day notice and not the issue that he seeks
to argue now concerning “judicial admissions” to the Answer in the Complaint.
However, this issue was raised in passing at the initial hearing when Defendant’s
counsel rightly argued that the three-day notice was an element of the cause of
action for Unlawful Detainer. Moreover, to the extent that Plaintiffs seeks to suggest
that filing an Answer to a Complaint waives an element of a cause of action,
the court finds that such a view is not compatible with the law.
 
But more importantly to the procedural
nature of the instant motion, section 473(b) does not compel a different
result. Here, Plaintiff is proceeding under the discretionary prong of section
473(b), as a review of his counsel’s declaration does not demonstrate a
mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect on behalf of counsel.  To the extent he infers in his declaration
that he believes he is right on the law, the court takes exception and will not
exercise its discretion to grant the motion under section 473(b).
 
Furthermore, as set forth above, Plaintiff
does not provide new or different
facts, circumstances, or law to suggest that section 1008(a) is applicable.
 
Conclusion
 
In light of the foregoing, the Motion to Set Aside Order
and/or for Reconsideration is DENIED. 