 Case Number:  24STCV04073    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  34 Smith v. Yankee Hotel, et al. (24STCV04073)
1.         Defendants Single Room Occupancy Housing Corporation and
Yankee Apartment LP’s Demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action is GRANTED. The
court will inquire at the hearing whether leave to amend should be granted.

 
2.         Defendants
Single Room Occupancy Housing Corporation and Yankee Apartment LP’s is GRANTED. The court will inquire at the
hearing whether leave to amend should be granted. 
Background[1]  
Plaintiff Gregory Smith (“Plaintiff”) alleges as follows:
Defendants Yankee Hotel LP and Single
Room Occupancy Housing Corporation (“Defendants”)  failed to properly repair and maintain
Plaintiff’s residential unit located at 501 E. 7th Street, #213, Los Angeles,
CA 90014 (“Subject Property”). The Subject Property was owned and/or managed by
Defendants.
 
Plaintiff alleges that the Subject
Property was uninhabitable due to water leaks, inoperable electrical outlets,
and mold growth in his bathroom. (Compl. ¶¶ 9, 21, 28.) He states he lived
there from December 2019 until 2023, at which time he moved into another unit
within the same building. (Compl., ¶¶ 8, 17.) 
 
After approximately two (2) years of
living in Unit 213, and when the mold growth was reported, Plaintiff allegedly
“submitted multiple work orders to DEFENDANTS about the mold, but DEFENDANTS
did not perform any mold remediation.” (Compl. ¶ 12.) Defendants allegedly
received numerous complaints about the mold growth, yet allowed the
uninhabitable condition to remain (Compl. ¶ 12, 14.) 
 
Plaintiff further alleges that as a
result of his frustrations from Defendants’ “refusal to remediate the mold at
the Subject Property, and concerned for his health” Plaintiff contacted a mold
specialist who recommended professional mold remediation, and that “[d]espite
repeated notifications of the CONDITIONS, DEFENDANTS, refused to perform the
necessary repairs and remediation, placing the health and safety of Plaintiff
at risk.” (Compl. ¶¶ 16, 17.) 
 
Plaintiff further alleges that
Defendants knew that failing to abate the mold growth in Plaintiff’s unit would
cause Plaintiff to suffer humiliation, mental anguish, and emotional distress,
and that this failure was unreasonable, reckless and with malicious disregard
for Plaintiff’s mental and emotional wellbeing. (Compl. ¶ 47, 49 50.) 
On February 20, 2024, Plaintiff
filed a complaint alleging the following causes of action against Defendants:
1.              
Breach of Contract
2.              
Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability
3.              
Nuisance
4.              
Negligence
5.              
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
6.              
Violation of California Civil Code section 1942.4
A Case Management Conference is set for September 13, 2024.
1.         Demurrer
to SACC
Legal Standard
A
demurrer may be made on the grounds that the pleading, inter alia, does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and/or are uncertain.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and (f).)
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984)
153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905 [citations omitted].) At the pleading stage, a
plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant
of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) “[A] demurrer
does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the pleading, or the construction placed on an instrument pleaded
therein, or facts impossible in law, or allegations contrary to facts of which
a court may take judicial knowledge.” (S.
Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 [citations
omitted].)
Discussion
Defendants demur, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §
430.10, subdivisions (e) and (f), to the fifth cause of action in Plaintiff’s Complaint, on the basis it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute causes
of action and are uncertain.
Fifth Cause of Action (i.e., Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress)
A cause of action
for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (“IIED”) requires proof of:
(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of
causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional
distress; (2) the plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress; and (3) the
defendant’s extreme and outrageous conduct was the actual or proximate cause of
the severe emotional distress.  (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035,
1050; Trerice v. Blue Cross of California
(1989) 209 Cal. App. 3d 878, 883 (“court may determine in the first instance,
whether the defendant's conduct may reasonably be regarded as so extreme and
outrageous as to permit recovery”); Cross
v. Bonded Adjustment Bureau (1996) 48 Cal. App. 4th 266, 283; and Alcorn v. Anbro Eng., Inc. (1970) 2
Cal.3d 493, 499 (outrageous conduct is a fact question where reasonable minds
may differ).) In order for conduct to be outrageous it must be so extreme as to
exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community. (Christensen
v. Sup.Ct. (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903.)

Here, the court finds that Plaintiff has not alleged conduct
“so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a
civilized community.” (Id.) The primary allegation for the IIED cause of
action was that Defendants failed to abate the mold growth in the Subject
Property. However, the allegations do not demonstrate that Defendants intended
to inflict injury upon Plaintiff and the complaint does not allege that
Defendants intentionally failed to remedy the mold growth in order to injure
Plaintiff. Finally, Plaintiff also fails to allege the “high bar” that the
emotional distress was of such “intensity and duration” as to constitute a
cause of action for IIED. (Murphy v. Allstate Ins. Co. (1978) 83
Cal.App.3d. 38, 51.)
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer to the fifth
cause of action is sustained.
2.         Motion to
Strike Portions of SACC
Legal Standard
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 436, “the court may, upon a
motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not
drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an
order of the court.” The grounds for a motion to strike must “appear on the
face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is
required to take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)
Discussion
Defendants move the court for an order striking out the
following portions of the Complaint:
1.              
Paragraph 38, in its entirety: “DEFENDANTS’ actions
were oppressive and malicious within the meaning of Cal. Civ. Code§ 3294 in
that they have intentionally, and in conscious disregard for health and safety,
subjected the PLAINTIFFS to cruel and unjust hardship by causing them to
unreasonably live with the substandard and dangerous CONDITIONS at the SUBJECT
PROPERTY thereby entitling the PLAINTIFFS to an award of punitive damages.
DEFENDANTS’ actions constituting malice and oppression were authorized by an officer,
director, or a managing agent of DEFENDANTS.” 
2.              
Paragraph 51, in its entirety: “DEFENDANTS’ actions
were oppressive and malicious within the meaning of Cal. Civ. Code§ 3294 in
that they have intentionally, and in conscious disregard for health and safety,
subjected the PLAINTIFFS to cruel and unjust hardship by causing them to
unreasonably live with the substandard and dangerous CONDITIONS at the SUBJECT
PROPERTY thereby entitling the PLAINTIFFS to an award of punitive damages.
DEFENDANTS’ actions constituting malice and oppression were authorized by an officer,
director, or a managing agent of DEFENDANTS.” 
3.              
At page 10, prayer for relief item “3” line 19, “For
punitive damages in an amount to be proven at trial.”
 
Punitive damages may be awarded in an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract upon clear and convincing evidence that a
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code § 3294,
subd. (a).) 
 
“Malice” is defined as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “Oppression” is defined as
“despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(2).)
“Fraud” is defined as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment
of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the
defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)
 
A “conclusory characterization of defendant’s conduct as intentional,
willful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of ‘oppression,
fraud, or malice. . .’” (Brousseau v.
Jarrett (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) “The mere allegation an intentional
tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages.
Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to
support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [emphasis added].) 
 
Here, the court
finds that Plaintiff has not met their burden. Plaintiff’s allegations that
Defendants were cited for housing violations and failed to remediate the mold
growth does not constitute conduct that is “vile, base, contemptible,
miserable, wretched, or loathsome[.]” (American Airlines v. Sheppard,
Mullin, Richter & Hampton (2002) 96 Cal.App.th 1017, 1050-51.) 
 
The motion is
granted.


