  Case Number:  23STCV03898    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




May 20


November 8, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV03898




MOTION:  


Motion to Tax Costs




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
  Authority 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants Astra Holding Inc., and Solaris Trading
  Corporation



 
MOTIONS
            Plaintiff
Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“Plaintiff”) filed,
and then later abandoned, this eminent domain proceeding.  Plaintiff moves to tax costs Defendants Astra
Holding Inc. and Solaris Trading Corporation (“Solaris,” collectively, “Defendants”)
seek in their memorandum of costs.  By
stipulation, the parties resolved all outstanding issues except for the requests
for expert fees in the amount of $7,411 for Richard Levy (“Levy”) and $18,100
for Darrin Arrasmith (“Arrasmith”), which the Court now considers.  
ANALYSIS
Because Plaintiff
dismissed this proceeding, Defendants are entitled to their litigation
expenses.  These include fees for the
services of experts, which Defendants reasonably and necessarily incurred to
protect their interests in the proceeding. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1268.610, subd. (a), 1235.140.)  
Levy is
Defendants’ accountant, and Plaintiff contends Defendants would have incurred the
costs attributable to Levy regardless of this proceeding.   However, Levy’s role as Defendants’
accountant does not necessarily mean Levy did not provide expert services in
connection with the litigation. 
Defendants’ counsel, John S. Peterson (“Counsel”), states Levy was hired
“to provide significant input and analyses of [Defendants’] financial records
and other matters” to assist Defendants’ retained expert concerning Defendants’
loss of business goodwill.  (Declaration
of Joseph M. Ferraro (in support of Motion to Tax Costs), Exhibit 1, Declaration
of John S. Peterson, ¶ 5(f).)   Plaintiff has not countered this contention
with any argument that sways the Court.  Therefore,
the Court concludes Defendants incurred Levy’s expert fee to protect their
interests in this proceeding and denies the motion to tax that fee.
Plaintiff also
contends expenses incurred regarding Arrasmith’s work does not qualify as
expert fees.  Plaintiff points to the
deposition testimony of Solaris’s representative, Stefan Bostanian
(“Bostanian”), who testified Arrasmith is a real estate expert who assisted
Bostanian.  Bostanian added, in
connection with this litigation, he asked Arrasmith “to help [Bostanian] accumulate,
evaluate, because I’m very busy running my business, so I had to ask him because
of his knowledge of the property, the values in the area and accumulation of
the data in connection with the attorney” (Peterson Decl., Exhibit 3, p. 16); and
he did not have a written fee agreement with Arrasmith (id., Exhibit 3,
p. 20)  Bostanian’s testimony suggests
Arrasmith did not work in an expert capacity in this litigation.  Rather, it reflects Arrasmith assisting
Bostanian with tasks Bostanian was too busy to handle.
In opposition,
Counsel states Arrasmith was intimately involved in all decisions Bostanian made
in managing and utilizing the subject real property.  But this supports the Court’s perception Arrasmith’s
work in this regard was in connection with Bostanian’s normal business operations
rather than this litigation, specifically. 
As such, Defendants are not entitled to recover claimed costs attributable
to Arrasmith.  The Court grants the
motion to tax those fees associated with Arrasmith.  
Defendants are ordered to provide notice of this order and to
file proof of service of same.
 