 Case Number:  22GDCV01128    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER AWARDING
ATTORNEY FEES TO PLAINTIFF                         
I.         
INTRODUCTION
            This case concerns allegations of
childhood sexual abuse and childhood sexual assault. The two plaintiffs, Jane
Doe AH and Jane Doe KC (together “Plaintiffs”) allege that they suffered
childhood sexual abuse at the hands of Defendants Gloria De Los Angeles Trevino
Ruiz aka Gloria Trevi (Trevi), Sergio Gustavo Andrade Sanchez aka Sergio
Andrade (Andrade), and Maria Raquenel Portillo Jimenez aka Mary Boquitas and
Mary Raquenel (Raquenel or “Defendant”). The alleged abuse took place in
1991-1992, when Jane Doe AH was 13 and Jane Doe KC was 15. The abuse occurred
in both Mexico and California, while the Doe plaintiffs were backup singers and
dancers for Defendant Trevi, a Mexican popstar.
There are two cross-complaints in this action, as well as a related case
filed by a third Jane Doe, as well as the two Doe plaintiffs here.  
On August 31, 2023, Defendant filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiffs
and other Cross-Defendants, which was later amended.  Defendant alleged causes of action for (1) indemnity,
(2) contribution, (3) defamation (libel and libel per se), (4) false light, and
(5) intentional infliction of emotional distress.  The third, fourth and fifth causes of action were
alleged against Plaintiffs only.
On November 16, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a Special Motion to Strike
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §425.16 (the “anti-SLAPP motion”). On December
22, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiffs’ Anti-SLAPP motion and dismissed the
third, fourth and fifth causes of action, finding that “the FACC does appear to
clearly and expressly base the causes of action for defamation, false light,
and IIED directly on the allegations made by Plaintiffs against Cross-Complainant
in their complaint.
            Before the
Court is Plaintiff’s motion for attorney’s fees and costs under CCP § 425.16(c)(the
“Motion”), concurrently filed on April 15, 2024, with the declaration of Karen Barth
Menzies (“Barth Menzies Decl.”) and the declaration of Laura Nagel, (“Nagel
Decl.”). Defendant Raquenel filed an opposition on July 1, 2024. Plaintiffs
filed a reply on July 3, 2024.
            The hearing
is scheduled for July 11, 2024.
            For the
reasons that follow, the motion is GRANTED and fees are awarded in the amount
requested.
 
                      
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
            Code Civ. Proc.
§1033.5(a)(1) provides for attorney fees as costs when provided for by
contract, statute, or law.
Code Civ. Proc. §425.16, the anti-SLAPP
statute, provides for a special motion to strike. “The anti-SLAPP statute does
not insulate defendants from any liability for claims arising from the
protected rights of petition or speech. It only provides a procedure for
weeding out, at an early stage, meritless claims arising from protected
activity.” (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 384, italics in original.)
            The
anti-SLAPP statute applies where a party is being sued for an act in
furtherance of the person’s right of petition or free speech including, “(1)
any written or oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive,
or judicial proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2)
any written or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement
or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection
with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of
the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional
right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
interest.” (Section 425.16(e).)
            “[W]e may
summarize a court’s task in ruling on an anti-SLAPP motion to strike as
follows. Section 425.16, subdivision (b)(1) requires the court to engage in a
two-step process. First, the court decides whether the defendant has made a
threshold showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising from
protected activity. The moving defendant’s burden is to demonstrate that the
act or acts of which the plaintiff complains were taken ‘in furtherance of the
[defendant]’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or
California Constitution in connection with a public issue,’ as defined in the
statute. (§ 425.16, subd. (b)(1).) If the court finds such a showing has been
made, it then determines whether the plaintiff has demonstrated a probability
of prevailing on the claim. Under section 425.16, subdivision (b)(2), the trial
court in making these determinations considers ‘the pleadings, and supporting
and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense
is based.’” (Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29
Cal.4th 53, 67.)
            
                   
III.         
 ANALYSIS
 
A.   
Prevailing Party
Plaintiffs argue that as the prevailing
party in the Special Motion to Strike (anti-SLAPP motion), they are entitled to
attorney’s fees and costs from Defendant. Plaintiffs cite the December 22, 2023,
Minute Order granting their Anti-SLAPP motion in its entirety as well as the
Notice of Dismissal. (Barth Menzies Decl., ¶ 6; Exhs. 1, 2.) Plaintiffs also
cite Ketchum v. Moses for the proposition that the attorney fee award
under CCP Section 425.16(c)(1) is mandatory. (See Ketchum v. Moses
(2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 113.)
Therefore, as Plaintiffs are the
prevailing party on a special motion to strike (anti-SLAPP), they are the
prevailing party under CCP 425.16(c). As such, they are entitled to attorney
fees.
 
B.    Reasonableness
of Fees
Self-Representation
The analysis of reasonableness of
attorney fees considers “the nature of the litigation, its difficulty, the
amount involved, the skill required and skill employed in handling the
litigation, the attention given, the success of the attorney’s efforts, his
learning, his age, and his experience in the particular type of work demanded…”
(Berry v. Chaplin (1946) 74 Cal.App.2d 669, 678-679, citations omitted.)[1] There is
no requirement that both parties be represented by legal counsel to impose an
attorney fee award. Self-represented litigants are
held to the same standards as licensed attorneys.
“Under the law one may be his own attorney
if he wants to be. A layman with resources who insists upon exercising the
privilege of representing himself must expect and receive the same treatment as
if represented by an attorney -- no different, no better, no worse (Citation
omitted). A litigant is permitted to present his own case, but, in so doing,
should be restricted to the same rules of evidence and procedure as is required
of those qualified to practice law before our courts; otherwise, ignorance is
unjustly rewarded." (Monastero v. Los Angeles Transit Co., 131 Cal.
App. 2d 156.)[2] 
In opposing the
instant motion, again appearing in pro per, Defendant urges the court to
consider her pro per status and align with well-established principles of
fairness and justice when ordering Plaintiff’s award of attorney fees and costs.
(Opp’n., p. 3.)  However, Defendant had
ample opportunity to reverse course on the cross-complaint.  On August 4, 2023, Defendant made eight
filings with the court including: an answer to Plaintiff’s Unverified First
Complaint; one redacted and one unredacted version of the above-mentioned
cross-complaint and a summons, with proof of service executed by her assisting Attorney
Edna Felix; requests for judicial notice; a motion to seal the filings; demand
for a jury trial; notice of posting jury fees; and proof of electronic service.
(Motion., p. 4-5.) 
On August 7,
2023, Defendant filed redacted versions of the judicial notice request, notice
of posting and cross-complaint summons which the court rejected due to
insufficient redactions. (Id., at 5.)  On August 25, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel sent
Defendant a letter explaining the California anti-SLAPP statute and case law
and warned Defendant that she (Plaintiff’s counsel) would be filing a Special
Motion to Strike if Defendant re-filed the cross-complaint. (Barth Menzies
Decl., ¶ 7; Exh. C.) On the same day, attorneys Barth Menzies and Nagel “conducted
a conferral via telephone with Defendant Raquenel’s lawyer assistant, Edna
Felix,” where they discussed Defendant’s inability to afford legal counsel and
urged Defendant to reconsider re-filing the cross-complaint. (Barth Menzies
Decl., ¶ 8.) Nonetheless, Defendant re-filed the FACC on August 31, 2023.
As a
self-represented litigant, Defendant is held to the same standards as a
licensed attorney.  Therefore, the Court
exercises its discretion as it would with a licensed attorney in determining
the reasonableness of the mandatory fee award. 
There is no requirement that billing
records be provided to a trial court in connection with a motion for fees
pursuant to contract. The declaration of counsel regarding the hours expended
on this litigation and the hourly rates charged for such time is all that is
required. “[T]here is no legal requirement that an attorney supply billing
statements to support a claim for attorney fees.” (Mardirossian &
Associates, Inc. v. Ersoff (2007) 135 Cal.App.4th 257, 269.) “[T]here is no
legal requirement that such statements be offered in evidence. An attorney’s
testimony as to the number of hours worked is sufficient evidence to support an
award of attorney fees, even in the absence of detailed time records.” (Steiny
& Co., Inc. v. California Electric Supply Co. (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th
285, 293.)  
Here, the
declaration of Plaintiffs’ counsel, Attorneys Barth Menzies and Nagel, provide
a sufficient basis for the fees requested. 
Attorney Barth Menzies requests a total award of $37,100.37 for the work
performed on this anti-SLAPP motion. (Barth Menzies Decl., ¶ 12; Exhs. 4-6.) This
amount is based on the application of a $600 Laffey Matrix hourly billing rate
applied to herself and a $100 Laffey Matrix hourly billing rate applied to work
performed by Barth Menzies’ paralegal. (Barth Menzies Decl., ¶ 9.)  That total includes Attorney Nagel’s request
for $19,950.00 in attorney’s fees for the work performed on this case. (Nagel
Decl., ¶ 16.) 
As to the time
spent on the Anti-SLAPP motion, attorney Nagel includes an invoice, which
includes a description of the services rendered. (Nagel Decl. ¶ 13, see Exh.
A.) The Laffey Matrix hourly billing rate varies as applied to each attorney
and paralegal that worked on the case. (Nagel Decl. ¶ 9.) This amount is based
on a $600 hourly billing rate for herself, below a Laffey Matrix rate given her
experience; and the following hourly billing rates for each firm attorney – $600
rate as to Ari Wilkenfeld; $300 rate as to Caroline Whitlock; and a $300 as to
Kathryn Kelly. (Id., ¶¶
8-14.)
The Court has
examined the evidence presented by Plaintiffs and makes the following findings:
Plaintiffs’ counsels’ provided hourly rates are reasonable and 89.95 hours is a
reasonable amount of time spent, given the complexity of an anti-SLAPP motion
and the overall complexity of this case. As such, the Court GRANTS the motion
for attorney fees in the amount of $37,408.37. 

 
IV.       CONCLUSION AND ORDER
            Defendant Maria Raquenel Portillo Jimenez aka Mary
Boquitas and Mary Raquenel is ordered to pay $37,408.37 in attorney fees
to Plaintiffs Jane Doe AH and Jane Doe
KC within 30 days’ notice of this order.
Plaintiffs are to provide notice of
this order.  
 
            
 
Dated: July 11, 2024                                                              
                                                                                         
      JARED D. MOSES
                                                                                 JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT


