  Case Number:  22AHCV01198    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  P [TENANTIVE] ORDER GRANTING
DEFENDANT CITY OF PASADENA’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT      I.         
INTRODUCTION
On
December 1, 2022, Plaintiff Franses Rodriguez (“Plaintiff”) filed this lawsuit
against Defendant the City of Pasadena (“Defendant”), asserting a single cause
of action for Dangerous Condition of Public Property, under Government Code §
835. Plaintiff alleges that on November 15, 2021, around 8:30 a.m., she was riding
her Ninebot Kick electric scooter (the “e-scooter”) and wearing a helmet, when
she encountered a 1.25-inch uneven section of the Marengo Avenue roadway in Pasadena,
CA, causing her to lose control of the e-scooter and sustain injuries. 
Defendant
now moves the Court for summary judgment on the basis that a vertical
displacement of 1.25 inches is trivial and that Defendant did not have notice
of the alleged dangerous condition. Plaintiff argues that courts are reluctant
to rule a roadway defect as not dangerous and that industry standards require
public entities to remove or warn of such defects. (Opp’n., p. 2.)  Plaintiff also argues that Defendant had both
actual and constructive notice of the Marengo Avenue defect by their own
admissions. (Opp’n., pp. 2-3.)
Procedural
History
            On April 5, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion for
summary judgment.
            On June 27, 2024, Plaintiff served and filed an
opposition.
            On July 8, 2024, Defendant served and filed a reply.
            The hearing on this motion for summary judgment was
initially scheduled for July 19, 2024, and has since been advanced to July 11,
2024.
            The jury trial is scheduled for July 23, 2024.
 
   
II.         
EVIDENTIARY
Objections
Plaintiff’s
Objections to Defendant’s Evidence:
            Objections as to Plaintiff's
claim of Dangerous Condition to Public Property
·      
The
following objections are overruled: 3, 6, 7, 9, 11, 12, 26, and 29
Objections
as to whether Defendant had actual or constructive notice
·      
The
following objections are overruled: 26, 29
Objections as to whether the uneven roadway caused
Plaintiff’s fall
·      
The
following objections are overruled: 32, 34, 35, 36
 
 III.         
JUDICIAL NOTICE
            Taking judicial notice of a document
is not the same as accepting the truth of its contents or accepting a
particular interpretation of its meaning. (Fremont Indem. Co. v. Fremont
General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 113-14.) That means that “when
judicial notice is taken of a document…the truthfulness and proper
interpretation of the document are disputable.” (Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 556, 569.
            Evidence Code section 452 provides
for taking judicial notice of “[o]fficial acts of the legislative, executive,
and judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United
States” as well as “[f]acts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to
dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to
sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Id. at subds. (c) &
(h)
Defendant
requests judicial notice of the following documents and facts: (1) the City of
Pasadena is a public entity, (Motion, Exh. 6, ¶ 1; Evidence Code §§ 452(g),(h)),
(2) the Court’s files and records in this matter (Motion, Exh. 6, ¶ 2; Evidence
Code § 452(d)), and (3) Defendant’s Exhibits 7 and 8 to the motion for summary,
where Exhibit 7 is Defendant’s Agenda
Report dated
October 28, 2013, on the matter of Contract Award to Hardy & Harper, Inc. for
Preventative
Maintenance of Streets 2013, for an amount not to exceed $1,630,000; and
Exhibit 8 is Notice of Completion and Contract No. 21,586. (Motion, Exh. 6, ¶
3; Evidence Code §§ 452, 459.)
            The Court notes that judicial notice
of its own records related to this case is unnecessary and redundant. Nonetheless,
Defendant’s request is granted. 
As
to Exhibits 7 and 8, the City of Pasadena’s website at issue is properly
subjected to judicial notice as the City’s road maintenance publications are
official acts. (See People v. Morales (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 502, 512,
fn. 7 [taking judicial notice of materials on an official government website,
which discussed official acts].)
Therefore,
the request for judicial notice is granted and the Court also takes judicial
notice of Exhibits “7” and “8” for the purposes of consideration on this motion
for summary judgment.
 IV.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
The purpose of a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut
through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite its
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve its dispute.” (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001); 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” Adler v. Manor
Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.¿¿¿¿ 
A “defendant moving for summary judgment
must show the plaintiff’s causes of action have¿no merit.” (Aguilar,
849, emphasis added.) In other words, summary judgment is not to be granted
simply because a case is “weak” or because a “weak” showing was made in
opposition. (Hagen v. Hickenbottom¿(1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 168, 187-188,
superseded by statute on another point as recognized in¿Rice v. Clark¿(2002) 28
Cal.4th 89, 96;¿Mamou v. Trendwest Resorts, Inc.¿(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th
589, 722. [“to avoid summary judgment a showing need not be strong; it need
only be sufficient to raise a triable issue of fact.”].)¿¿¿ 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the
initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that
there are no triable issues of material fact.” Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.
(2005) 128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519. A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). “Once the defendant . . .
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more facts exists as to the cause of action or a
defense thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).¿¿
A.    Government Code Section 835 
¿      Government
Code section 835 sets out the exclusive conditions under which a public entity
is liable for injuries caused by a dangerous condition of public property.¿ (Metcalf
v. County of San Joaquin (2008) 42 Cal.4th 1121, 1129, citing Brown v.
Poway Unified Sch. Dist. (1993) 4 Cal.4th 820, 829; see also Zelig v.
County of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.4th 1112.)¿ Per Government Code section
835, “a public entity is liable for injury caused by a dangerous condition of
its property if the plaintiff establishes that the property was in a dangerous
condition at the time of the injury, that the injury was proximately caused by
the dangerous condition, that the dangerous condition created a reasonably
foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was incurred, and that either: [¶]
(a) A negligent or wrongful act or omission of an employee of the public entity
within the scope of his employment created the dangerous condition; or [¶] (b)
The public entity had actual or constructive notice of the dangerous condition
. . . a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken measures to protect
against the dangerous condition.”¿ (Gov. Code, § 835.)¿¿¿
A “dangerous condition” is a condition of
public property that “create[s] a substantial (as distinguished from a minor,
trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when such property or adjacent
property is used with due care in a manner in which it was reasonably
foreseeable that it would be used.” (Gov. Code, § 830.2.)¿¿¿ 
The outcome of this Motion turns on the
determination of whether the defect at issue is trivial.
B.   
The
Trivial Defect Doctrine 
¿ In Kasparian v. AvalonBay
Communities, Inc. (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 11, the Court explained the
trivial defect doctrine as follows:  
“’In summary,
persons who maintain walkways, whether public or private, are not required to
maintain them in an absolutely perfect condition.¿ The duty of care imposed on
a property owner with actual notice, does not require the repair of minor
defects.’¿ Although sometimes referred to as the trivial defect defense, the
trivial defect doctrine is ‘not an affirmative defense but rather an aspect of
duty ... plaintiff must plead and prove.’¿¿ 
“The trivial
defect doctrine originated to shield public entities from liability where
conditions on public property create a risk ‘of such a minor, trivial or
insignificant nature in view of the surrounding circumstances ... no reasonable
person would conclude that the condition created a substantial risk of injury
when such property or adjacent property was used with due care in a manner in
which it was reasonably foreseeable that it would be used.’ This doctrine ‘permits
a court to determine ‘triviality’ as a matter of law rather than always
submitting the issue to a jury [and] provides a check valve for the elimination
from the court system of unwarranted litigation which attempts to impose upon a
property owner what amounts to absolute liability for injury to persons who
come upon the property.’ The trivial defect doctrine has been expanded to
embrace actions against private landowners.¿ 
“’When a court
determines whether a given defect is trivial, as a matter of law, the court
should not rely merely upon the size of the depression. While size may be one
of the most relevant factors to the decision, it is not always the sole
criteria. Instead, the court should determine whether there existed any
circumstances surrounding the accident which might have rendered the defect
more dangerous than its mere abstract depth would indicate. As such, the court
should view the intrinsic nature and quality of the defect to see if, for
example, it consists of the mere nonalignment of two horizontal slabs or
whether it consists of a jagged and deep hole. The court should also look at
other factors such as whether the accident occurred at night in an unlighted
area. Furthermore, the court should see if there is any evidence that other
persons have been injured on this same defect.’¿
“If the ‘court
determines ... sufficient evidence has been presented so that reasonable minds
may differ as to whether the defect is dangerous, the court may not rule ...
the defect is not dangerous as a matter of law.’ Conversely, where ‘the only
evidence available on the issue of dangerousness does not lead to the
conclusion ... reasonable minds may differ, then it is proper for the court to
find ... the defect was trivial as a matter of law.’¿ 
“Moreover, ‘[a]s to what constitutes a
dangerous or defective condition no hard and fast rule can be laid down, but
each case must depend upon its own facts.’ (Citation.)”¿ 
(Kasparian, 56 Cal.App.4th at 26-28
(citations omitted)).¿¿¿ 
In Huckey v. City of Temecula
(2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 1092, 1104, the Court of Appeal, in affirming summary
judgment for the city, stated in part: “[a] condition is ‘not dangerous,’ if
‘the trial or appellate court, viewing the evidence most favorably to the
plaintiff, determines as a matter of law that the risk created by the condition
was of such a minor, trivial or insignificant nature in view of the surrounding
circumstances that no reasonable person would conclude that the condition
created a substantial risk of injury when such property ... was used with due
care ...’ in a reasonably foreseeable manner.”¿ (Citation omitted &
emphasis added.)¿ 
The Huckey court explained: 
“In determining
whether a given walkway defect is trivial as a matter of law, the court should
not rely solely upon the size of the defect—in this case, on the depth or
height of the walkway depression or elevation—although the defect's size ‘may
be one of the most relevant factors’ to the court's decision.¿ The court should
consider other circumstances which might have rendered the defect a dangerous
condition at the time of the accident.¿¿ 
“These other
circumstances or factors include whether there were any broken pieces or jagged
edges in the area of the defect, whether any dirt, debris or other material
obscured a pedestrian's view of the defect, the plaintiff's knowledge of the
area, whether the accident occurred at night or in an unlighted area, the
weather at the time of the accident, and whether the defect has caused any
other accidents. In sum, ‘[a] court should decide whether a defect may be
dangerous only after considering all of the circumstances surrounding the
accident that might make the defect more dangerous than its size alone would
suggest.’¿ 
“The court's
analysis of whether a walkway defect is trivial involves as a matter of law two
essential steps. ‘First, the court reviews evidence regarding type and size of
the defect. If that preliminary analysis reveals a trivial defect, the court
considers evidence of any additional factors [bearing on whether the defect
presented a substantial risk of injury]. If these additional factors do not
indicate the defect was sufficiently dangerous to a reasonably careful person,
the court should deem the defect trivial as a matter of law ....’”
(Huckey, 37 Cal.App.5th at 1105
(citations omitted). 
More recently, in Stack v. City of
Lemoore (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 102, 110, the Court of Appeal read Government
Code section 830.2 to require a more “holistic” approach, stating, “[a]lthough
we agree with the premise that the size of the defect is the primary
determinant of triviality, as discussed below, we modify the prevailing
two-step framework into a holistic, multi-factor analysis.”  That “holistic” approach involves considering
the size of the defect and surrounding circumstances, including the nature and
quality of the defect (including whether it has jagged breaks or cracks);
whether anything was obstructing or concealing the defect (such as an object,
debris, or other substance); the lighting and weather conditions at the time of
the incident; and whether the defect has caused other accidents. 
      V.         
DISCUSSION
If there is no triable issue of material
fact, the party must show that they are entitled to judgment as a matter of
law, and the court must dispose of a cause of action, affirmative defense, or
claims for damages, or issues of duty. (CCP § 437c) 
Defendant argues that they are entitled to
judgment as a matter of law and moves the Court to dispose of Plaintiff’s only
cause of action for dangerous condition under Government Code § 835 because (1)
the alleged defect is “trivial as a matter of law and (2) Plaintiff cannot
establish that Defendant had actual or constructive notice of the alleged
defect. (Notice of Motion, p. 2.)
 
A.    Procedural
Matters
Generally, a motion for summary judgment must
be heard at least 30 days before trial. Code of Civil Procedure, §437c(a).  It is error for the Court to rule on the
motion absent an express order. Robinson v. Woods (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th
1258, 1268 (“Defendants noticed their motion for hearing within 30 days of the
trial date without first obtaining a determination of good cause from the trial
court. (See § 437c, subd. (a).) Unless and until the trial court found good
cause, the notice of the hearing was invalid.”)
Plaintiff urges the court to deny the
instant motion without addressing its merits because Defendant “did not file
its motion early enough to obtain a hearing date sooner than 30 days before
trial”. (Opp’n., p. 10.) Plaintiff opposes on the grounds that Defendant has
not offered showing of good cause or reached any stipulation for the July 11,
2024, hearing on the instant motion to occurring just 12 days before the
scheduled jury trial. (Opp’n., p. 10.)
In reply, Defendant cites Sentry
Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (1969) 207 Cal.App.3d 526, 528-529 (Sentry)
to argue that good cause exists for the Court to hear a summary judgment motion,
notwithstanding the problems the trial court may experience in calendaring and
hearing such motions. (Reply, p. 3.) According to Defendant, like the Sentry
petitioner, it was unable to reserve a hearing outside the 30-day period.
(Reply, p. 3.) New evidence cannot be introduced in reply. (San Diego
Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., (2002) 102CA4th 308, 316.)
However, the court has discretion to consider new evidence in reply papers in
ruling on a summary judgment motion, provided the other party had notice and an
opportunity to respond.
Here, the Court exercises its discretion
in considering Defendant's scheduling for the hearing on the instant motion
because Plaintiff was notified of the instant motion on April 5, 2024. Notice
of the motion and supporting papers shall be served on all other parties to the
action at least 75 days before the time appointed for hearing.” Code of Civil
Procedure, §437c(a). Here, Defendants filed notice of the motion on April 5,
2024, 97 days before the July 11, 2024, hearing date. Initially, the motion was
set to be heard on July 19, 2024. In opposition, Plaintiffs state Defendants
filed an ex parte motion to have the Motion heard sooner on May 31,
2024, which the Court denied and advanced the motion hearing to July 11, 2024. 
The Court finds that the procedural
requirements have been satisfied.
 B.    Premises
Liability
  The
Trivial Defect Doctrine
  1.     Size
of Defect
The initial step in the analysis
established by Huckey involves the size of the defect. When the size of
the depression begins to stretch beyond one inch, courts have been reluctant to
find that the defect is not dangerous as a matter of law." (Fielder v.
City of Glendale, (1977), 71 Cal.App.3d 719, 726.) Courts have been more
likely to consider the defect to be trivial when it is under ½ inch. (See,
e.g., Caloroso v. Hathaway (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 922, 927 [elevation
difference of under half an inch]; Fielder, supra, 71 Cal.App.3d at p.
724, fn. 4 [same].  However, courts have
found trivial defects at above ½ inch. 
(See Whiting v. City of National City (1937) 9 Cal.2d 163,
165-166 [ 69 P.2d 990] [elevation difference of a maximum of three-fourths of
an inch]; Nunez v. City of Redondo Beach (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 749, 753
[elevation difference of 3/4 of an inch to 11/16 of an inch]. A more “accurate
encapsulation” of the law, according to Stack, is that “when the size of
the depression begins to stretch beyond one inch the courts have been reluctant
to find that the defect is not dangerous as a matter of law, i.e., that it is
minor or trivial.”¿ (Stack, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 112.)¿ “That
said, there is no firmly fixed arbitrary measurement in inches below which a
defect is trivial as a matter of law and above which it becomes a question of
fact whether or not the defect is dangerous.¿ This is because a court should
not rely solely upon the size of the defect ... although the defect’s size ‘may
be one of the most relevant factors’ to the court’s decision.”¿ (Id. at
pp. 112–113.)
 
2.     Aggravating
Factors
The Court next considers additional
factors.¿“Beyond size, additional factors courts typically consider in
assessing a sidewalk condition’s triviality as a matter of law are: the nature
and quality of the defect (including whether it has jagged breaks or cracks);
whether anything was obstructing or concealing the defect (for instance, an
object, debris, or other substance); the lighting and weather conditions at the
time of the incident; whether the defect has caused other accidents; and
plaintiff's familiarity with the area.” (Stack, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at
p. 115.)
            Plaintiff presents evidence showing
that the Marengo Avenue defect at issue was a permanent defect in asphalt
pavement caused by “shoving”, creating an offset measuring 1.25 inches. (Declaration
of Dr. Shakir Shatnawi, P.E., (“Shatnawi Decl.”) ¶¶ 6-11.) Asphalt pavement “shoving”
occurs when small mounds can form in pavement, and typically close to
intersections where traffic starts and stops. (Declaration of Brad P. Avrit,
P.E., (“Avrit Decl.”) ¶ 12; Fig. 3-4.) Plaintiff has provided evidence that the
defect remains just above 1 inch, which is the height differential at which
courts have been reluctant to find that the defect is not dangerous as a matter
of law.
            Defendant disputes the suggested
size of the defect as shown on the photographs taken by Plaintiff’s husband,
Joshua Bark, featuring measuring tape next to the uneven pavement. Defendant
argues that in her two depositions, Plaintiff did not provide a measurement or
estimate of the offset height. (Deposition of Plaintiff Franses Rodriguez,
Volume 1, 2 (“Pl. Dep., V. 1”) at 52:7-14.) 
However, Plaintiff recounted that her husband took the measurements, and
she approximated the height to be “probably a couple of inches”. (Id. at
69: 1-4; Pl. Dep., V. 2. At 92:8-15, 19-24.) Plaintiff returned to the site of
the crash on three occasions following the accident and recognized the portion
of the road that caused her fall. (Declaration of Joshua Bark, “Bark Decl.”, ¶¶
3-6 (Ex. S.) 
After examining all the evidence, the
Court finds the displacement in question to be trivial as a matter of law.
First, the 1.25-inch displacement is just above the threshold where the Court
would hesitate to find it trivial. (Stack, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p.
112) Courts have routinely found height differentials of up to one and one-half
inches trivial as a matter of law. (See, e.g., Barrett v. City of Claremont
(1953) 41 Cal.2d 70, 74 [in the absence of aggravating conditions, differential
of less than half an inch deemed trivial]; Caloroso v. Hathaway (2004)
122 Cal.App.4th 922 927 [elevation difference of under half an inch]; Fielder
v. City of Glendale (1977) 71 Cal.App.3d 719, 724, fn. 4 [same]; Nicholson
v. City of Los Angeles (1936) 5 Cal.2d 361, 367 [one and one-half inch
elevation difference]; Whiting v. City of National City (1937) 9 Cal.2d
163, 165-166 [ 69 P.2d 990] [elevation difference of a maximum of three-fourths
of an inch].)  
Second, there is no evidence of
aggravating factors.  Plaintiff presented
no evidence of any prior accident or fall at the location. Defendant never
received any claim for damages nor legal complaints related to any incident
involving the alleged condition or involving the sidewalk located at or near
the location of the displacement since 2012. (Decl. of Mandy Templeton, ¶¶ 1-9.)
The various photographs of the location do not depict any jagged breaks or
cracks.  Defendant points out that
Plaintiff has stated that the day was “clear and sunny,” that the “road
conditions were dry, there were no weather conditions, or shadows that would
have prevented Plaintiff from seeing the uneven section of the roadway.” (Pl.
Dep., V. 1 at 39:3-4, 39: 13-15, 39:13-15, 39: 40:23-1, 51-52:22-2.)  
Plaintiff argues that as the operator of
an e-scooter, she had much less opportunity than a pedestrian to identify
hazards on the road’s surface given the speed and requirement to remain
balanced upright while traveling. (Opp’n., p. 13.) Plaintiff argues that the 1.25-inch
defect is not distinct because it is the same color as the rest of the asphalt
and was covered by a shadow extending across Plaintiff’s travel lane. (Id.)    
Plaintiff presented a photograph taken
approximately 3 days after the incident, displaying the elevated transition
between asphalt pavement and concrete. (Bark Decl., ¶ 2; Exh. H.) However, even
in the photograph, the elevated asphalt pavement is visible.  The evidence presented does not establish
that the elevated transition was obstructed or concealed.  Thus, the lack of aggravating factors weigh
in favor of finding that the alleged defect here is trivial.  In concert with the size of the defect, which
is 1.25 inches, the Court finds the defect to be trivial. 
Notice
Plaintiff argues that Defendant had either
actual or constructive notice of the alleged defect.  Even assuming the defect on the road is not
trivial, the Court finds that Defendant was not put on actual or constructive notice
of the defect.
For liability under Gov. Code § 835(b), a
plaintiff must establish either actual or constructive notice on the part of
the public entity.  Failure to establish
notice is fatal to recovery. (Van Kempen v. Hayward Area Park, Recreation
& Park Dist. (1972) 23 Cal.App.3d 822, 827.) To establish actual
notice, there must be evidence of the public entity’s actual knowledge of the
existence of the condition and that the entity knew or should have known of its
dangerous character. (Gov. Code § 835.2.)  There are several factors to consider when
determining if constructive notice existed, including whether the dangerous
condition was obvious and whether it existed for a sufficient period of time ((Gov.
Code § 835.2(b); State v. Superior Court of San Mateo County (1968) 263
Cal.App.2d 396, 400) to put the municipality on notice.  Prior accidents may also establish constructive
notice. (Higgins v. State (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 177, 188, abrogated on
other grounds Cornette v. Dept. of Trans. (2002) 26 Cal.4th 63
[plaintiff in dangerous condition roadway case must show that the accident rate
was statistically aberrant, otherwise no triable issue on notice exists].)
Defendant has presented undisputed
evidence from its Citizen Service Center, which helps the public request
service on roads and report injuries and incidents, stating that between 2012
to November 15, 2021, (the accident date), no work orders or roadway conditions
were reported to Defendant. (Id., at ¶¶ 3- 9.) A search of tort claims
of where Plaintiff fell, dating back to 1979, also did not reveal any injuries
claimed at that location. (Declaration of Razmik Serkisian (“Serkisian Decl.”),
¶¶ 4-5, 8.) Pasadena Police Department phone calls and reports between January
2011 and December 31, 2021, also failed to yield any relevant results.
(Declaration of Melissa Trujillo (“Trujillo Decl.”), at ¶¶ 4-6.) 
In 2017, the most relevant request to the
accident site was submitted to Defendant by a cyclist, asking Defendant to mark
the pavement as SLM or “sharrow” to show cyclists and drivers the lane is
shared. (Declaration of Alexander Timblin, (“Timblin Decl.”, ¶ 4.) Defendant
argues that city employees must report potential hazards on either the roadway
or sidewalk if one is observed. (Pl. Response to Defendant’s Special
Interrogatories, Set One, at Response to SROG No. 9.)
Plaintiff argues that actual notice of the
dangerous defect occurred when Defendant’s employee, Alexander Timblin, visited
the accident site to fulfill the cyclist’ request to mark the pavement and
“observed that the defect was already present” (Opp’n., p. 14; Timblin Decl. ¶.
3,5-8). In her opposition, Plaintiff states: “Here, there is evidence that the
defect was already present when Mr. Timblin observed the area in 2017. There is
also evidence that other City employees visited the scene in or prior to April
of 2019 and the defect was likewise present at that time. From this evidence a
reasonable jury could find that the City had actual knowledge of the existence
of the condition and knew or should have known of its dangerous character.”  
However, in paragraph 9 of his
declaration, Mr. Timblin states: “I went to Marengo Avenue, just south of Green
Street to take measurements for the work order to place additional sharrow
markings in 2017.  When I was at the
location of Marengo Avenue at or near Green Street, I did not observe a gap or
bump in the roadway.  The alleged uplift
or alleged condition that Plaintiff claims caused her fall was not present at
the time I was at the location.”  This
evidence was uncontradicted and undermines Plaintiff's argument that the City
had actual notice.  This Court concludes
that there is no evidence of actual notice.
Plaintiff argues that the nature and
appearance of the defect gave the City constructive notice of its
existence.  Plaintiff further argues that
constructive notice may also be established by evidence that a public entity
failed to undertake adequate precautions despite having reason to anticipate
that an as-yet-nonexistent dangerous condition would develop.  In response, Defendant cites Plaintiff’s
deposition testimony in which Plaintiff confirmed that she did not see the
uneven portion of the roadway that caused her fall. (UMF No. 5.) and did not
observe the change in material from concrete to asphalt. (UMF No. 27.)  In addition to this evidence, the parties
have submitted numerous photographs of the accident location.
The Court agrees that the undisputable
facts establish that the alleged condition was not sufficiently obvious to give
the City constructive notice, as a matter of law. The Court finds there are no
triable issues of material fact as to the City’s lack of constructive or actual
notice of the alleged dangerous condition. 
The Court grants summary judgment in favor
of the City.
 
            CONCLUSION
AND ORDER 
            Defendant’s motion for summary judgment
is GRANTED. 
Defendant is ordered to provide notice of
this order.
 
 DATED: July 11, 2024                                                          
JARED D. MOSESJUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
