 Case Number:  22CMCV00581    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  B 
22CMCV00581 BC INDUSTRIAL SERVICES, LLC  v. JANITORIAL EMPORIUM, INC., 
Thursday, November 16, 2023 at 8:30 a.m.



 
 
 
 
 


      
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S
   REQUEST TO STRIKE FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT; GRANTING REQUEST FOR MONETARY
   SANCTIONS



I.
BACKGROUND
             Plaintiff
BC Industrial Services, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint in this action on
November 22, 2022, alleging breach of contract and common count – open book
account against Defendant Janitorial Emporium. Inc. (“Defendant”). Plaintiff alleges
the parties entered into a contract in November of 2021 where Plaintiff was
obligated to “install equipment for specialized laundry chemical services” and
Plaintiff would “service the equipment on a regular basis to insure optimal
performance.” (Complaint (“Compl.”) at ¶ 5.) Defendant was obligated to
“purchase chemicals for the equipment” from Plaintiff only. (Ibid.) The
contract had a five-year term. (Ibid.) Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant currently owes $208,522.57 on the contract plus prejudgment interest
at a rate of 10% per annum, totaling $214,342.22. (Compl., ¶ 20.) 
            Defendant filed
the First Amended Cross-Complaint on March 7, 2023, alleging that Plaintiff
breached the contract by failing to fill orders for chemicals in a timely
manner, failing to service the equipment, improperly increasing the price of
the chemicals, and improperly disclosing the existence of the agreement to
third parties. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 6.)  
 
II. MOTION
TO STRIKE AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
A.     
Plaintiff’s motion 
            Plaintiff requests
that the Court strike the First Amended Cross-Complaint and award Plaintiff
monetary sanctions because Defendant allegedly failed to comply with the
Court’s September 14, 2023, order. The Court ordered Defendant to respond to
Plaintiff’s special interrogatories, form interrogatories, and requests for
production of documents within 20 days of the entry of the order. Defendant has
allegedly failed to produce any responses. 
 
B.     
No opposition filed
 
C.     
No reply filed
 
III. LEGAL STANDARDS
            Misuse of the discovery
process is defined by Code of Civil Procedure, section 2023.010, and includes
actions such as failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of
discovery or disobeying a court order to provide discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.030, subds. (d) and (g).) The court may impose monetary sanctions, issue
sanctions, evidentiary sanctions, terminating sanctions, and contempt sanctions
for conduct that constitutes a misuse of the discovery process.
            For a monetary
sanction, 
“The
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process … pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's
fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. … If a monetary sanction
is authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that
sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).)
            For a terminating
sanction, 
“The
court may impose a terminating sanction by one of the following orders: (1) An
order striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings of any party
engaging in the misuse of the discovery process. (2) An order staying further
proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is obeyed. (3) An order
dismissing the action, or any part of the action, of that party. (4) An order
rendering a judgment by default against that party.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.030, subd. (d).) 
            
IV. DISCUSSION
            Discovery
sanctions are not to be imposed for punishment, but instead are used to
encourage fair disclosure of discovery to prevent unfairness resulting from the
lack of information. “Sanctions are inappropriate to impose punishment.” (Midwife
v. Bernal (1988) 203 Cal. App. 3d 57, 64.) Terminating sanctions are
appropriate, however, where there is an outright refusal to comply with
discovery obligations. “[T]here is no question that a court is empowered to
apply the ultimate sanction against a litigant who persists in the outright
refusal to comply with his discovery obligations [citations omitted]. The
refusal to reveal material evidence is deemed to be an admission that the claim
or defense is without merit.” (Deyo v. Kilbourne, (1978) 84 Cal. App. 3d
771, 793.)
            In Deyo, the
Court of Appeal laid out several factors to consider before entering
terminating or ‘ultimate’ sanctions. 
 
“[T]he
court must examine the entire record in determining whether the ultimate
sanction should be imposed. (National Hockey League v. Met. Hockey Club,
supra., 427 U.S. 639, 642 [49 L.Ed.2d 747, 750-751]; Wilson v.
Volkswagen of America, Inc., supra. 561 F.2d 494, 504-506; Stein v.
Hassen supra..) In exercising this discretion, a variety of factors may be
relevant, including, 1) the time which has elapsed since interrogatories were
served, 2) whether the party served was previously given a voluntary extension
of time, 3) the number of interrogatories propounded, 4) whether the unanswered
questions sought information which was difficult to obtain, 5) whether the
answers supplied were evasive and incomplete, 6) the number of questions which
remain unanswered, 7) whether the questions which remain unanswered are
material to a particular claim or defense, 8) whether the answering party has
acted in good faith, and with reasonable diligence, 9) the existence of prior
orders compelling discovery and the answering party's response thereto, 10)
whether the party was unable to comply with the previous order of the court,
11) whether an order allowing more time to answer would enable the answering
party to supply the necessary information, and, 12) whether a sanction short of
dismissal or default would be appropriate to the dereliction.” (Deyo v.
Kilbourne, supra, 84 Cal.App.3d at pgs. 796–797.)
 
            Here, the
underlying discovery requests at issue were served on June 6, 2023. (Decl. of Kate
Neiswender, attached to Motion to Compel Further Responses filed August 10,
2023,  ¶ 4.) When the deadline to respond
arrived, Plaintiff granted Defendant with a two-week extension to provide
responses. (Ibid.) Objections were served on July 24, 2023. (Ibid.)
Plaintiff believed the objections were deficient and filed a motion to compel
further responses on August 10, 2023. Defendant did not file an opposition to
the motion. 
            On September 14,
2023, Defendant’s counsel appeared at the hearing and represented that they did
not object to providing further responses. (Minute Order issued September 14,
2023.) The Court then ordered  “Defendant
to provide substantive, code-compliant responses to BC Industrial Services,
LLC's Special Interrogatories, Set One, Form Interrogatories, Set One, and
Request for Production of Documents, Set One. The responses must be served
within 20 days of this order.” (Ibid.) Defendant was also ordered to pay
sanction in the amount of $2,180.00. (Ibid.) The compelled responses and
monetary sanctions were due by the end of day on October 4, 2023. Plaintiff
argues that no responses were produced.  
            Plaintiff propounded
24 special interrogatory requests, 35 form interrogatory requests, and two
requests for production of documents requesting any documents identified in
response to the form and special interrogatories. The form and special
interrogatories seek extensive and detailed information about the agreements
alleged and the factual disputes between the parties. A total of 61 discovery
requests remains unanswered. 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court finds
that an additional monetary sanction is appropriate for Defendant’s failure to
comply with the September 14, 2023, order. The Court does not find that issuing
a terminating sanction and striking the First Amended Cross-Complaint is
warranted. Defendant was initially diligent in seeking and obtaining an
extension of time to respond to the discovery at issue. Defendant served
objections within the extended time to respond. At the hearing on Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses, Defendant did not oppose the motion and was
willing to provide further responses. The Court finds that a lesser sanction is
more appropriate.  
 
V.  CONCLUSION
             Having fully considered the arguments of the
parties, both written and oral, the Court exercises its discretion and rules as
follows:
            The request for monetary sanctions against
Defendant is GRANTED in the amount of $1,465.00 for Defendant’s failure to
comply with the Court’s September 14, 2023, order. Defendant is ordered to pay
Plaintiff $1,465.00 in sanctions and to comply with the September 14, 2023, by
the end of day on November 27, 2023. 
            
 