  Case Number:  22CMCV00343    Hearing Date:   November 16, 2023    Dept:  B 22CMCV00343
 Cesar Enriquez Cayax, Bayron Enriquez v. General Motors, LLC
Thursday,
 November 16, 2023 at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFFS’
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION AND ATTENDANCE OF A PERSON MOST QUALIFIED AND
CUSTODIAN OF RECORDS OF DEFENDANT GENERAL MOTORS; REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
      The complaint
alleges that Defendant issued an express warranty in connection with Plaintiffs’
purchase of a 2021 Chevrolet Silverado made and distributed by Defendant. The
vehicle suffered from various defects that Defendant failed to repair within a
reasonable number of attempts in violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act. Plaintiffs allege a claim for negligent maintenance against Felix
Chevrolet LP.
II.     
ARGUMENTS
      Plaintiffs
request an order to compel Defendant, General Motors, LLC (“GM”) to produce its
person most qualified (“PMQ”) to testify on the topics identified in Plaintiffs’
deposition notice served on August 22, 2023. Plaintiffs identified four categories
of inquiry and six categories of document requests. GM served objections on
September 5, 2023, refused to produce a witness, refused to provide alternative
dates, and failed to appear at the September 11, 2023, deposition. The Court
should impose sanctions. 
      In
opposition, Defendant states Plaintiffs' counsel failed to meet and confer in
good faith, did not address GM’s objections although GM agreed to produce a
witness responsive to two categories relevant to the allegations in Plaintiffs’
complaint and limited to Plaintiffs’ vehicle only. The request for production
seeks irrelevant documents or GM has already agreed to produce the documents. 
      Plaintiffs
argue in reply that Plaintiffs' counsel has continued to meet and confer with Defendant,
who has failed to provide a future date for deposition and failed to appear at
a duly noticed deposition. 
III.   
DISCUSSION
      This matter is the 51st action
for violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (“SBA”) filed in this Court
against GM. This Court has heard 21 discovery motions to date involving GM’s failure
to respond to relevant and discoverable requests for documents or to produce a
PMQ. As in every motion, GM opposes on the same grounds: Plaintiffs failed to
meet and confer in good faith, GM agreed to produce a witness or documents only
on condition that Plaintiffs agree to its unilaterally imposed limitations (to which
Plaintiffs unreasonably refuse), the discovery involves irrelevant topics that
include vehicles other than Plaintiffs’ (“other vehicle evidence”), the
documents are subject to numerous privileges, and/or compliance is unduly
burdensome and oppressive. 
      The
Court has previously articulated its position on these same issues in multiple
motions raised in the following cases involving GM: 



1


21CMCV00174


Nicolas Perez




2


21CMCV00285


Augusto Barco-Robledo




3


22CMCV00224


Zachary Jay Woody, II




4


22CMCV00171


Lizandro Gonzalez




5


22CMCV00569


Marylyn Yvette Jones




6


22CMCV00259


Juana Bautista
  Rodriguez




7


22CMCV00238


Christopher Robinson




8


22CMCV00060


Anselma Olmedo De
  Ceja




9


22CMCV00278


Pedro Mauricio
  Mendoza




10


23CMCV00631


Jose Lemus




11


22CMCV00294


Briana Garcia




12


22CMCV00275


Mariana Jimenez




13


22CMCV00295


Julian Zarate




14


22CMCV00311


Benito Rodriguez



 
      In this
case, Defense counsel failed to respond in good faith to Plaintiffs’ request to
meet and confer. On September 6, 2023, Plaintiffs' counsel sent GM a
comprehensive, six-page letter responding to each of Defendant’s objections.
(Thomas Decl., Ex. D.) On September 12, Plaintiffs' counsel sent an email to
Defendant memorializing Defendant’s failure to appear at the September 12, 2023,
deposition and that Defendant had not proposed alternative dates (Id.
Ex. E.) GM sent a one-page letter response on the same day, faulting
Plaintiff for unilaterally selecting a date for the deposition without
consulting with defense counsel, while at the same time claiming its unilaterally
imposed limitations are justified. (Id. Ex. F.)   
      GM’S
opposition again offers no substantive or persuasive argument for failing to
produce its witness or documents nor has GM supported its contention that it is
entitled to unilaterally limit Plaintiffs’ inquiries without moving for a
protective order. The Court has previously determined that Plaintiffs’
discovery requests fall within the broad scope of discovery in lemon law cases.
The Court has conducted informal discovery conferences on other matters with
GM’s counsel explaining why the discovery is permissible. Over the course of 21
motions heard against GM in these cases, Plaintiffs have narrowed the topics of
inquiry from 20 categories to four, although GM continues to assert that the
discovery is “overbroad.” (See for example 22CMCV00060 De Ceja v.
General Motors, LLC, Erskine Law Firm as counsel for Defendant.) 
      The
Court has previously refused to consider the four-year-old Declaration of
Huizhen Lu, Defendant’s Senior Technical Consultant, submitted in support of
GM’s opposition. (Declaration of Yohannes Moore, Ex. A.) GM provides a duplicate
of the same declaration signed on October 25, 2018, that contains generalized statements
about purported trade secret and confidential information which “may” be
contained in the requested discovery, none of which is identified specifically
in a privilege log as required by statute. It also predates the filing of this
action and the date of manufacture of the vehicle at issue.  
      All four
categories of inquiry and the document requests are relevant, not vague, or
ambiguous, nor overbroad. To the extent Defendant objects to testimony
concerning confidentiality, trade secret, attorney-client privilege, work
product, or any other privilege, Defendant’s remedy is to object to the
question at the time of the deposition, not limit testimony as it deems
appropriate or refuse to produce a witness. With respect to any document
request where production is withheld pursuant to a privilege, Defendant is
required to provide a privilege log of all documents withheld and the specific
objection asserted to enable the Court to determine whether any privilege
applies. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.240 subd. (b).) The privilege log must
contain clear descriptions of the documents as set forth in the statute. (Id.)

      Plaintiffs
are entitled to discover other vehicle evidence. (Donlen
v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 154.) The categories of
inquiry and the document request are equally relevant to Plaintiffs’ burden of
establishing Defendant’s non-compliance with its obligations under the Act to
reasonably attempt to repair the vehicle. (Oregel
v. American Isuzu Motors, Inc. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1101.) The
discovery is relevant to the recovery of civil penalties. (Jensen
v. BMW of North America, Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112, 136.)
      Defendant
has not established that compliance with the document request will be
unreasonably burdensome and oppressive. Defendant’s remedy is to
move for a protective order, not refuse to respond or unilaterally impose
limitations on Plaintiffs’ discovery. Defendant did not meet its burden of
proof on that issue. (West
Pico Furniture Co. v. Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) 
      To the extent
that Defendant refers Plaintiffs to documents previously produced, the response
is improper.  Plaintiffs are entitled to
a complete response in the form required by statute. It is not proper to answer
“by stating, ‘see my deposition,’ ‘see my pleading,’ or ‘see the financial
statement. Indeed, if a question does require the responding party to make
reference to a pleading or document, the pleading or document should be
identified and summarized so the answer is fully responsive to the question.”
(Deyo v. Kilbourne, (1978) 84 Cal. App. 3d 771, 783-784.) 
      In
anticipation of GM’s contention that it requires more than 10 days to comply
because it is overburdened by the number of lemon law cases it must defend, the
discovery propounded, and the depositions for which witnesses must be produced,
this is not an issue for the Court to resolve. Plaintiffs first served the
deposition notice on August 22, 2023. Three months later, Plaintiffs have not been
able to secure firm dates. Nor does defense counsel’s inability to manage its
cases justify refusing to comply with discovery obligations, fundamentally and foremost,
responding to efforts to meet and confer. 
 
IV.   
CONCLUSION
      Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiffs’ motion is GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to
produce a witness or witnesses qualified to testify on all topics of inquiry
identified in Plaintiffs’ Notice of Deposition and to comply with the Demand to
Produce Documents at Deposition within 10 days without limitation or condition.
The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request for imposition of sanctions against GM for
making unsupported objections without substantial justification; for
unsuccessfully opposing this motion without substantial justification, and for
failing to confer in good faith, all of which constitute misuses of the
discovery process. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)
      Accordingly,
GM and its counsel Erskine Law Group, is ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiffs
of $2,250 plus $60 dollars in filing fees (total $2,310) within 10 days. The
Court finds that the hourly fee of $450 per hour is reasonable and that five
hours to prepare the motion, reply, and appear at the hearing is reasonable.
(Decl. of Phil Thomas, ¶¶ 10-12.) 
 
 