 Case Number:  23STCV06287    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  39 Tanisha Johnson v.
General Motors, LLC
Case No.
23STCV06287
Demurrer and
Motion to Strike
 
            Plaintiff
Tanisha Johnson (“Plaintiff”) filed this case under the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act against General Motors, LLC (“Defendant”).  Defendant demurs to the fifth cause of action
(fraudulent inducement-concealment) and moves to strike the prayer for punitive
damages.  
 
Plaintiff must allege fraud with
particularity.  “This means: (1) general
pleading of the legal conclusion of fraud is insufficient; and (2) every
element of the cause of action for fraud must be alleged in full, factually and
specifically, and the policy of liberal construction of pleading will not
usually be invoked to sustain a pleading that is defective in any material
respect.”  (Wilhelm v. Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186
Cal.App.3d 1324, 1331.)  There are four
circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable
fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the
plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not
known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material
fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts.”  (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52
Cal.App.4th 326, 336, internal quotations and citations omitted.)  
 
In this case, Plaintiff alleges
that Defendant “knew (or should have known) that the cooling system had one or
more defects that can result in various problems . . . .”  (First Amended Complaint, ¶ 62.)  Plaintiff alleges, “that while Defendant . .
. knew about the cooling system defect, Defendant . . . nevertheless concealed
and failed to disclose the defective nature of the Vehicle cooling system to
Plaintiff prior to and at the time of sale and thereafter.”  (First Amended Complaint, ¶ 64.)  Plaintiff does not allege specific facts to
support these conclusory allegations. 
Plaintiff does not allege any facts demonstrating that she had contact with
Defendants and does not identify any specific misrepresentations.  Plaintiff alleges only that there was a
default, of which Defendant allegedly was aware, and that this defect was not
disclosed.  These allegations do not
satisfy the heightened pleading standard for a fraud claim.  Otherwise, there would be a fraud claim in
every Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty case (since every such case involves these
types of allegations).  
 
Based upon the foregoing, the Court
rules as follows:
 
1.         The
Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action.
 
2.         The
Court grants the motion to strike the prayer for punitive damages, having
sustained the demurrer to the fraud claim.
 
3.         The
Court denies leave to amend, as Plaintiff’s counsel identifies no supplemental
facts that would satisfy the pleading standard.
 
4.         Defendant
shall file an answer within thirty (30) days.
 
5.         Defendant’s
counsel shall provide notice and file proof of such with the Court.  
 