 Case Number:  21STCV35634    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2024    Dept:  39 Fredy Wembe v.
Target Stores, Inc., et al.
Case No.
21STCV35634
Motion to Compel
Further Responses
 
            Plaintiff
Fredy Wembe (“Plaintiff”) filed this employment action against Defendants
Target Corporation and Manuel Quijada (collectively, “Defendants”).  Defendants move to compel further responses
to certain Requests for Production of Documents (“RPD”) and Special
Interrogatories (“SROG”).  The Court
rules as follows:
 
            RPD #77 and
RPD #78 – Defendants seek to compel Plaintiff to produce “any and all mobile
and/or personal cellular devices” that he maintained/used from January 1, 2015,
through the present, as well as all passwords necessary to access them.  On its face, this request is overly
broad.  Defendants may request specific
documents (i.e., all written communications with other Target
employees/supervisors).  If so, Plaintiff
would be required to produce any such documents in his possession, custody, or
control (i.e., any documents located on his cellular devices).  The Court would consider ordering Plaintiff
to produce his cellular devices for inspection as a discovery sanction if
Defendant proves that Plaintiff intentionally withheld or destroyed responsive
documents in this case.  But there is no
good cause to order a plaintiff in an employment case to produce his
mobile/personal cellular devices. 
Plaintiff has a right to privacy in “various private or sensitive
information regarding [his] personal life . . . .”  (Hooser v. Superior Court (2000) 84
Cal.App.4th 997, 1003-1004.)  Therefore,
the motion is DENIED with respect to RPD #77 and RDP #78.    
 
            SROG #1 –
DENIED.  See above.
 
            SROG #2 –
GRANTED.  Defendant is entitled to
Plaintiff’s telephone number(s) during the relevant time to attempt to determine
whether, and to what extent, he communicated with other employees/supervisors.
 
            SROG #3 –
GRANTED.  Defendant is entitled to
Plaintiff’s mobile/cellular carriers for the reasons discussed above.  
 
Defendant also moves to compel
Plaintiff to sign an authorization for the release of his records from the
Employment Development Department (“EDD”). 
No provision of the Civil Discovery Act permits one party to compel the
other to sign an authorization for the release of records.  The Court does not have the power to create
additional methods of discovery.  (See,
e.g., San Diego Unified Port Dist. V. Douglas E. Barnhart, Inc. (2002)
95 Cal.App.4th 1400, 1405, collecting cases.) 
The Court notes, however, that, were Defendant to serve requests for
production of documents on Plaintiff for his EDD records, Plaintiff would be
obligated to produce all documents in her “possession, custody, or control . .
. .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.)  Plaintiff presumably can obtain his own EDD
records, and he has agreed to do so in this case.  Therefore, pursuant to the parties’
stipulation, the Court orders Plaintiff to obtain and produce his EDD records,
to the extent he is able to do so.  
 
Finally, Defendant moves to compel
Plaintiff’s counsel to produce a custodian of records declaration concerning
documents produced by Plaintiff’s daughter. 
This motion was not served on Judith Parada, and Plaintiff’s counsel
does not represent her.  Therefore, the
motion is denied for lack of notice. 
Defendant’s counsel may file a new motion and serve Judith Parada (as
well as Plaintiff’s counsel) or may simply take her deposition concerning the
documents at issue, as fact discovery is still open.
 
Based upon the foregoing, the Court
grants the motion in part and denies the motion in part.  The Court orders Plaintiff to provide further
responses to SROG #2 and SROG #3 without objections within twenty (20) days.  Defendant’s counsel shall provide notice and
file proof of such with the Court.         