 Case Number:  23SMCV01998    Hearing Date:   June 26, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant
Saeid Shadanloo’s Demurrer to Plaintiff Ehsan Bashi’s First Amended Complaint
is SUSTAINED with thirty (30) days leave to amend.
 
Defendant
Samsum Shadanloo’s Demurrer to Plaintiff Ehsan Bashi’s First Amended Complaint is
SUSTAINED with thirty (30) days leave to amend.
 
Plaintiff
Ehsan Bashi may amend his complaint only as authorized by the Court’s order and
may not amend the complaint to add a new party or cause of action without
having obtained permission to do so. (Harris
v. Wachovia Mortgage, FSB (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1018, 1023.)
 
Plaintiff
Ehsan Bashi’s Motion for Sanctions in
the Form of $2,512.83 Under Code Civ. Proc. § 128.7 Against Samsum Shadanloo
for an Award of Expenses and Attorney’s Fees Against Defendant Samsum Shadanloo
and in Favor of Plaintiff Ehsan Bashi in the Sum of $2,512.83 is DENIED.
 
Defendant
Samsum Shadanloo’s Motion for Sanctions
Against Plaintiff, Ehsan Bashi and Plaintiff’s Attorneys, Paymon John Vafa and
Daniel A, [sic] Sabet, Pursuant to
C.C.P. §§128.5 and 128.7 is DENIED.
 
Moving parties
to give notice. 
 
REASONING
 
At the outset, the Court notes that the parties’ filings are confusing
and difficult to track as both sides use joint filings for motion oppositions
and replies. Counsel are admonished to make each motion, opposition, and reply
a standalone document so the Court is not required to search for which argument
applies to which motion. Insofar as Plaintiff Ehsan Bashi (“Plaintiff”) objects
to Defendants’ reply briefs or moves to strike portions of the briefs, these
objections are OVERRULED, as the Court has reviewed all briefs in the interest
of resolving these motions on their merits in the hopes the parties will work
toward good faith litigation or resolution of their disputes, and a brief is
not evidence which can be stricken.
 
Insofar as Plaintiff expresses concern about the unauthorized practice of
law, this is concerning, but this is a surprising argument given that Plaintiff
appears to have engaged an unlicensed individual to draft portions of his
motion for sanctions based on the declaration of Mark Anthony Alvarado, who
states that he was directly responsible for drafting certain supporting
documents. However, the Court lacks sufficient information to determine that
either party has definitively encouraged the unauthorized practice of law, and
it trusts that counsel will be mindful of their professional and ethnical obligations.
 
Plaintiff has included a general request for judicial notice of 25 court
records to apply to all four pending motions. Plaintiff’s request is GRANTED
pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d); however, in the future,
joint requests in this manner will be denied, as each motion must have its own
request for judicial notice.
 
Defendant
Saeid Shadanloo’s Demurrer to Plaintiff Ehsan Bashi’s First Amended Complaint;
Defendant Samsum Shadanloo’s Demurrer to Plaintiff Ehsan Bashi’s First Amended
Complaint
Request
for Judicial Notice
Defendant
Saeid Shadanloo (“Saeid”) requests judicial notice of the demurrer of Defendant
Samsun Shadanloo. Saeid’s request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section
452, subdivision (d).
 
Defendant Samsum
Shadanloo (“Samsum”) requests judicial notice of two minute orders. Samsum’s
request is request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452,
subdivision (d).
 
Legal
Standard
“[A]
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235
Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that
appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the
pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in
ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not
subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their
contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a
complaint are assumed to be true (Aubry
v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967), but the Court does not
“assume the truth of contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law” (Moore v. Regents of University of California
(1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 125).
 
Leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to
amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment”]; Kong v. City of Hawaiian
Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 [“A demurrer
should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally
construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a
reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”]; Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th
761, 768 [“When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of
cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”].) The burden is on the
complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.)
 
First
Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
“The
elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of
emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant
with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme
emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must
be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012)
207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation and ellipses omitted.)
 
In the
FAC, Plaintiff alleges that Samsum started a text message thread on November 7,
2022 with Plaintiff seeking to collect money which included texts, followed by
threatening emails and a threatening voicemail the following day; the conduct
continued from August 2022 to November 2022; Plaintiff obtained a temporary
restraining order against Samsum; and the conduct caused him severe emotional
distress. (FAC ¶¶ 5-13.)
 
First, the
only allegations as to Saeid are that Doe Defendant 1, later named as Saeid, is
“Dad” (FAC ¶ 6), he was included in a text message group (ibid.), he stated that Plaintiff “made a mistake & he will pay
for it one way or the other” and he was “holding back to see if he will do the
right thing” (ibid.), and his conduct
was extreme and caused emotional distress (FAC ¶¶ 12-13). Put simply, the Court
lacks a basis to conclude that the trier of fact could conclude that Saeid is
liable for intentional infliction of emotional distress based on these
statements, as they do not state how Plaintiff “will pay,” i.e., this could be
a reference to money and a need to repay funds (see FAC ¶ 1), and the
statements are not so outrageous that they exceed what is normally tolerated in
a civilized community. Further, the nature of Plaintiff’s emotional distress is
unclear because he simply provides a conclusory statement that he suffered
emotional distress. Thus, Defendant Saeid Shadanloo’s Demurrer to Plaintiff
Ehsan Bashi’s First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with thirty (30) days leave
to amend.
 
Samsum demurs to the FAC on the ground that Plaintiff’s
claims against him are barred by the doctrines of res judicata and collateral
estoppel. While the exact nature of the argument is unclear, it appears Samsum
believes the temporary restraining order litigation bars the claims here. The
doctrine of res judicata is described as follows: 
 
Res judicata, or claim preclusion, prevents relitigation of
the same cause of action in a second suit between the same parties or parties
in privity with them. Under the doctrine of res judicata, a judgment for the
defendant serves as a bar to further litigation of the same cause of action. To
operate as a bar, a judgment must be final, on the same claim or cause of
action, between the same parties, and must be an adjudication on the merits. 
 
(Hi-Desert Medical Center v. Douglas (2015) 239
Cal.App.4th 717, 731, ellipses, citations, brackets, and quotation marks
omitted.) A temporary restraining order is not the same as a civil claim for
intentional infliction of emotional distress, as they employ different burdens
of proof and require proof of different elements. Put simply, there is no basis
to conclude that res judicata applies here.
 
A similar concept is the doctrine of collateral estoppel,
“an aspect of res judicata,” provides that “an issue necessarily decided in
prior litigation may be conclusively determined as against the parties or their
privies in a subsequent lawsuit on a different cause of action.” (Patel v.
Crown Diamonds, Inc. (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 29, 39, italics omitted.)
“[F]ive threshold requirements must be satisfied” for the doctrine to apply: 
 
First, the issue sought to be precluded from relitigation
must be identical to that decided in a former proceeding. Second, this issue
must have been actually litigated in the former proceeding. Third, it must have
been necessarily decided in the former proceeding. Fourth, the decision in the
former proceeding must be final and on the merits. Finally, the party against
whom preclusion is sought must be the same as, or in privity with, the party to
the former proceeding. 
 
(Y.K.A. Industries, Inc. v. Redevelopment Agency of City
of San Jose (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 339, 356-357.) Samsum argues that “the
issue to be precluded is the same set of text messages and alleged threats
which are referenced in both the prior case and asserted in the FAC” (Dem., p.
19, ll. 3-4), but use of the same evidence does not compel a conclusion that an
identical issue was decided. Samsum does not state which element of an
intentional infliction of emotional distress claim was decided in the temporary
restraining order proceeding, and he does not state that time for appeal has
run out. Thus, there is also no basis to conclude that collateral estoppel
applies here.
 
Samsum also argues that the litigation privilege precludes
liability here. Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b), makes privileged any
statements made during judicial proceedings, which “applies to any
communication (1) made in judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings; (2) by
litigants or other participants authorized by law; (3) to achieve the objects
of the litigation; and (4) that have some connection or logical relation to the
action.” (Silberg v. Anderson (1990)
50 Cal.3d 205, 212.) Whether the statements at issue were connected to
litigation, service of legal process, or pursuing enforcement of a judgment is
not clear from either the face of the FAC or any documents which are subject to
judicial notice. Thus, the Court cannot conclude that the litigation privilege
applies.
 
As to whether the allegations sufficiently state a claim
against Samsum, the Court finds that amendment is necessary to move forward
with this claim. Plaintiff appears to ask the trier of fact to conclude that
Samsum was threatening physical harm against Plaintiff, but the statements at
issue could just as easily read to be seeking Plaintiff’s location for a
collection of money owed, i.e., to enforce a judgment, and insofar as Samsum
left a voicemail, it is not clear that Samsum called Plaintiff, i.e., if Samsum
made statements about a violent attack to a third party, it is not clear how
Plaintiff would have standing to assert an intentional infliction of emotional
distress claim if the voicemail was not intended for him. (See FAC ¶ 8.)
Further, the nature of Plaintiff’s emotional distress is unclear because he
simply provides a conclusory statement that he suffered emotional distress.
Thus, Defendant Samsum Shadanloo’s Demurrer to Plaintiff Ehsan Bashi’s First
Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED with thirty (30) days leave to amend.
 
Plaintiff
Ehsan Bashi’s Motion for Sanctions in
the Form of $2,512.83 Under Code Civ. Proc. § 128.7 Against Samsum Shadanloo
for an Award of Expenses and Attorney’s Fees Against Defendant Samsum Shadanloo
and in Favor of Plaintiff Ehsan Bashi in the Sum of $2,512.83
Plaintiff seeks monetary sanctions against
Samsum and his counsel for filing a frivolous demurrer and for failing to seek
judicial notice. Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7, subdivision (c),
provides that if the Court determines that a motion is presented primarily for
an improper purpose, such as to harass or cause delay, or that the motion is
frivolous, the Court may impose an appropriate sanction. First, the Court has
sustained Samsum’s demurrer, such that it cannot be considered frivolous or
presented for an improper purpose. Second, the argument that Samsum cannot
refer to the other case without a request for judicial notice is not well taken
as a basis for sanctions. Accordingly, Plaintiff Ehsan Bashi’s Motion for
Sanctions in the Form of $2,512.83 Under Code Civ. Proc. § 128.7 Against Samsum
Shadanloo for an Award of Expenses and Attorney’s Fees Against Defendant Samsum
Shadanloo and in Favor of Plaintiff Ehsan Bashi in the Sum of $2,512.83 is
DENIED.
 
Defendant
Samsum Shadanloo’s Motion for Sanctions
Against Plaintiff, Ehsan Bashi and Plaintiff’s Attorneys, Paymon John Vafa and
Daniel A, [sic] Sabet, Pursuant to
C.C.P. §§128.5 and 128.7
Samsum seeks monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and his
counsel for fees incurred in responding to Plaintiff’s action against him. First,
insofar as Samsum argues that this action is barred by res judicata or
collateral estoppel, the Court has rejected those arguments above. Second, the
Court cannot determine at this juncture whether this action is frivolous
because the only evidence provided by Samsum is the declaration of his counsel,
i.e., Samsum asks the Court to conclude this action is frivolous based solely
on his attorney’s opinions and documents which do not demonstrate that
Plaintiff’s claims here are frivolous. Notably, the Court does not so much know
at this juncture that Plaintiff’s claims are based on the enforcement of a
judgment in another action because this is not included within the FAC.
Accordingly, Defendant Samsum Shadanloo’s Motion for Sanctions Against Plaintiff, Ehsan Bashi and Plaintiff’s
Attorneys, Paymon John Vafa and Daniel A, [sic]
Sabet, Pursuant to C.C.P. §§128.5 and 128.7 is DENIED.
 
Evidentiary Objections
Plaintiff objects to certain statements within the
declarations of Jason Lonas. The Court does not rule on these objections, as
they were not material to the Court’s rulings herein.
 
Conclusion
Counsel
are advised to better proofread their motion papers and supporting documents.
Both demurrers contain citations to defense counsel’s declaration without
numbers, while Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections include a reminder to “list
all demurrers and motions” in the place where motions should have been named.
Counsel are also advised to make themselves familiar with formatting and page
length limitations and requirements as set forth in the California Rules of
Court.
 
 