 Case Number:  23AHCV02846    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  X Plaintiff's Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production of Documents (Set One)Plaintiff's Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One)Plaintiff's Motion to Deem Requests for Admissions Admitted (Set One)This is a dog bite case, in which Plaintiff claims injuries and damages stemming from a dog being housed by Defendant.  Plaintiff moves for an order compelling a response to Form Interrogatories (Set One) and Requests for Production of Documents (Set One), as well as to deem admitted Request for Admissions (Set One). Plaintiff’s motions to compel responses to interrogatories and production demands are GRANTED.  Defendant is ordered to provide a response to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories (Set One) and Request for Production of Documents (Set One) without objections within 30 days of mailing of the notice of ruling.Plaintiff’s motion to deem admitted the genuineness of documents and truth of all matters specified in Request for Admissions (Set One) is GRANTED.If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).)  The same applies to a party that fails to respond to a request for document production.  (Id., at § 2031.300, subd. (b).)If a party to whom requests for admissions are directed fails to serve a timely response, the requesting party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted. (Id., at § 2033.280.)On February 1, 2024, Plaintiff served the instant discovery on Defendant.  (Motion to Compel RFA, Topchyan Decl. ¶ 5; Motion to Compel Form Interrogatories, Topchyan Decl. ¶ 5; Motion to Compel RPD, Topchyan Decl. ¶ 5.)  On May 2, 2024, Defendant indicated she never received an email with the propounded discovery; Plaintiff granted an extension to May 23, 2024 to provide responses.  (Motion to Compel RFA, Topchyan Decl. ¶ 8; Motion to Compel Form Interrogatories, Topchyan Decl. ¶ 8; Motion to Compel RPD, Topchyan Decl. ¶ 8.)No response was received by June 18, 2024.  Plaintiff attempted to meet and confer with defense counsel and offered another extension to respond, but Defendant did not respond to the discovery.  (Motion to Compel RFA, Topchyan Decl. ¶¶ 13, 15; Motion to Compel Form Interrogatories, Topchyan Decl. ¶¶ 13, 15; Motion to Compel RPD, Topchyan Decl. ¶¶ 13, 15.)  To date, there has been no response received from Defendant, including in opposition to the instant motions.Accordingly, Plaintiff’s two motions to compel are granted as indicated above.  As well, Plaintiff’s motion to deem admitted the genuineness of documents and truth of all matters specified in the first set of requests for admissions is GRANTED.Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,456.73 for each motion pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.010.  The Court awards total sanctions in the amount of $ 2,456.73 for the reasonable costs and fees associated with bringing the motions ($818.91 per motion).  Sanctions are payable to Plaintiff's counsel by Defendant and are due within 30 days of mailing of a notice of ruling.Moving Party is to give notice.