  Case Number:  18STCV03053    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
KANDYPENS INC., et
  al.
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


  18STCV03053




Hearing Date:


November 6, 2023




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




TENTATIVE RULING
  RE:
 
PEOPLE’S MOTION
  TO AMEND JUDGMENT TO ADD GRAHAM GIBSON AS JUDGMENT DEBTOR UNDER CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE SECTION 187
 



Background
Plaintiff People of the
State of California (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on October 31, 2018 against
Defendant Kandypens Inc. (“Kandypens”). The Complaint alleges causes of action
for (1) violation of Unfair Competition Law, (2) violation of the Stop Tobacco
Access to Kids Enforcement Act, and (3) violation of the Safe Drinking Water
and Toxic Enforcement Act. 
On July 16, 2021, the
Court issued a Final Judgment in this matter (herein, the “Judgment”). The
Judgment provides, inter alia, that Plaintiff has “established that Defendant
Kandypens…has violated (1) the Stop Tobacco Access to Kids Enforcement Act…(2)
the Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act…and (3) California’s Unfair
Competition Law…” (July 16, 2021 Judgment at p. 1:2-6.) The July 16, 2021
Judgment provides for injunctive relief and other affirmative undertakings. (See
July 16, 2021 Judgment at pp. 1:7-9:2.) The July 16, 2021 Judgment also
provides for civil penalties, providing, inter alia, that “[t]he Court
hereby assesses against Kandypens a statutory penalty of $1,200,000.00. This
penalty is assessed under each of the STAKE Act, the UCL, and Prop 65 as
follows…” (July 16, 2021 Judgment, ¶ 17.) 
Plaintiff now moves for
an order amending the Judgment entered on July 16, 2021 to add Graham Gibson as
a judgment debtor. Graham Gibson (“Gibson”) filed a “response” to the motion.
On October 5, 2023, the Court issued an Order continuing the hearing
on the instant motion to November 6, 2023. The Court’s October 5, 2023 Order
noted that “Plaintiff relies on evidence submitted for the first time in
connection with the reply in responding to Gibson’s assertion that the Court
does not have personal jurisdiction over him. Because Gibson has not had the opportunity
to respond to Plaintiff’s Reply Declaration of Joshua L. Crowell, the Court
will permit Gibson to file and serve a surreply.” (October 5, 2023 Order at p. 5.) The October 5, 2023 Order provides
that “[t]he Court will permit Gibson to file and serve a surreply on or before
Nov. 1, 2023, solely to address the evidence submitted by Plaintiff in
connection with the reply.” (Ibid.) On
November 1, 2023, Gibson filed a surreply to support his response to
Plaintiff’s motion. 
Discussion
As set forth above, the
July 16, 2021 Judgment in this matter provides for civil penalties, stating, inter
alia, that “[t]he Court hereby assesses against Kandypens a statutory
penalty of $1,200,000.00. This penalty is assessed under each of the STAKE Act,
the UCL, and Prop 65 as follows…” (July 16, 2021 Judgment, ¶ 17.) The Judgment
provides that “Kandypens will pay the total penalty in thirty-five (35) equal
monthly installments of $33,333.33 each, and a thirty-sixth and final payment
of 33,333.45 payable to the City of Los Angeles. Kandypens first payment will
be due and payable on August 1, 2021. Each subsequent payment will be due on
the first of each month through June 1, 2024.” (July 16, 2021 Judgment, ¶ 19.) 
Plaintiff indicates that
“[o]n February 1, 2022—just six months into its payment obligation—Kandypens
missed its required installment payment.” (Crowell Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 3 (Mahmood
Decl.) ¶ 4.) The July 16, 2021 Judgment provides that “[i]n the event of
Kandypens’ default of payment beyond the grace period, without additional
notice, the People may accelerate all of the remaining installments and declare
the balance due immediately, and proceed to enforce all rights and remedies
under law or equity...” (July 16, 2021 Judgment, ¶ 21.) Plaintiff states that
“[o]n February 17, 2022, the People served Kandypens, by and through its
counsel, Jeffrey Matura, with a Notice of Default.” (Crowell Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 3
(Mahmood Decl.) ¶ 5.) Plaintiff states that “Kandypens began making smaller,
deficient $10,000 monthly payments in March 2022. But as of August 2022,
Kandypens has stopped making those payments as well.” (Crowell Decl., ¶ 5, Ex.
3 (Mahmood Decl.) ¶ 7.) Plaintiff asserts that “[t]he Court should amend
the judgment to add Gibson as a judgment debtor under the alter ego doctrine
and Section 187 of the Code of Civil Procedure.”
(Mot. at p. 4:10-11.) 
Jurisdiction 
As an initial matter, Gibson asserts in
his response that the Court does not have personal jurisdiction over Gibson,
such that the instant motion should be denied.[1] Gibson asserts
that “[i]n this case…neither general nor specific jurisdiction exists.”
(Response at p. 2:19-20.) The Court notes that Gibson does not appear to cite
to legal authority in the response concerning general or specific jurisdiction. In the reply, Plaintiff cites to Pavlovich v. Superior Court (2002) 29 Cal.4th 262, 268, where the California Supreme Court noted that “California
courts may exercise personal jurisdiction on any basis consistent with the
Constitutions of California and the United States. The exercise of jurisdiction
over a nonresident defendant comports with these Constitutions if the defendant
has such minimum contacts with the state that the assertion of
jurisdiction does not violate traditional notions of fair play and
substantial justice.” (Internal quotations and citation omitted.) 
“[C]ourts have identified
two ways to establish personal jurisdiction. Personal jurisdiction may be
either general or specific.” (Pavlovich v. Superior Court, supra, 29 Cal.4th at pp.
268-269 [internal
quotations omitted].) The Court notes that “[a]
defendant that has substantial, continuous, and systematic contacts with the
forum state is subject to general jurisdiction in the state, meaning
jurisdiction on any cause of action.” (HealthMarkets,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1160, 1167.) In the reply, Plaintiff does not appear to
dispute Gibson’s assertion that the Court does not have general jurisdiction
over Gibson. However, Plaintiff asserts that Gibson’s activities directed
toward California support specific jurisdiction. “[W]hen determining
whether specific jurisdiction exists, courts consider the relationship among
the defendant, the forum, and the litigation. A court may exercise specific
jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant only if: (1) the defendant has
purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits; (2) the controversy
is related to or arises out of [the] defendant’s contacts with the forum; and
(3) the assertion of personal jurisdiction would comport with fair play and
substantial justice.” (Pavlovich v. Superior
Court, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 269 [internal quotations and citations
omitted].) 
In the response, Gibson
asserts that he “has…not purposefully availed himself to California, and
no facts are present that demonstrate sufficient ‘minimum contacts’ over Gibson
with respect to California.” (Response at p. 2:25-3:1.) In his declaration in
support of the response, Gibson states that in 2006, he moved from California
to Arizona. (Gibson Decl., ¶ 2.)  Gibson
states that he “lived in Arizona
continuously since 2006,” and that he does “not intend to again reside in California.” (Gibson Decl., ¶
3.) Gibson states that he “[does] not own any real property in California and
[does] not own any business interests in California.” (Gibson Decl., ¶ 4.)
Gibson further states that “[u]ntil December 2022, [he] was the CEO of
Kandypens.” (Gibson Decl., ¶ 7.) Gibson asserts that “Kandypens is a Delaware
corporation. Its principal place of business is Arizona.” (Gibson Decl., ¶ 8.)
Gibson states that in his capacity as CEO of Kandypens, he worked in Arizona.
(Gibson Decl., ¶ 9.) Gibson further states that “[i]n [his] capacity as CEO of
Kandypens, [he] occasionally visited California for legitimate business
purposes that were solely for and on behalf of Kandypens.” (Gibson Decl., ¶
10.) 
            As
set forth above, Plaintiff asserts that Gibson’s activities directed towards
California support specific jurisdiction. As to the first prong of the specific
jurisdiction analysis, Plaintiff asserts that “[b]y founding and leading
Kandypens, a corporate entity whose principal place of business is in
California, Gibson purposely availed himself of the benefits in this state.” (Reply at p. 3:21-22.) “[P]urposeful availment
occurs where a nonresident defendant purposefully direct[s] [its] activities at
residents of the forum, purposefully derive[s] benefit from its activities in
the forum, create[s] a substantial connection with the forum, deliberately has
engaged in significant activities within the forum, or has created continuing
obligations between [itself] and residents of the forum.” (Anglo Irish Bank Corp., PLC v.
Superior Court (2008) 165
Cal.App.4th 969, 978-979 [internal quotations and citations omitted].)
In Anglo Irish Bank, the Court of Appeal
noted that “[i]n our view, reliance
on state substantive law of agency and alter ego to determine the
constitutional limits of specific personal jurisdiction is unnecessary and is
an imprecise substitute for the appropriate jurisdictional question. The proper jurisdictional question is not whether the defendant
can be liable for the acts of another person or entity under state substantive
law, but whether the defendant has purposefully directed its activities at the
forum state by causing a separate person or entity to engage in forum
contacts.” (Id.
at p. 983.) 
            Plaintiff
asserts that “[a]lthough Gibson claims that the company is principally
based in Arizona, its legal pleadings in another lawsuit and corporate filings
say otherwise.” (Reply at p. 3:22-24.) Plaintiff’s counsel submits a
declaration in support of the reply attaching a copy of the complaint filed in the action titled Kandypens, Inc. v.
Puff Corp., Case No. 2:20-cv-00358, in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of
California.” (Crowell Reply Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1.) The complaint in this matter
alleges that “Kandypens is a Delaware corporation with its principal place of
business in Santa Barbara, California.” (Crowell Reply Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1, ¶ 2.)
Plaintiff also provides copies of Kandypens’ “Statement and Designation by
Foreign Corporation” filed with the California Secretary of State in August
2014, which list “Corporate Addresses” in California. (Crowell Reply Decl., ¶
3, Ex. 2.) In addition, Kandypens’ “Statement of Information” filed with the
California Secretary of State in August 2023 lists a “Principal Address” and
“Mailing Address” in California. (Crowell Reply Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 3.) In his
declaration filed in support of the surreply, Gibson asserts that “[i]n
its Complaint filed January 13, 2020, against Puff Corp. in the United States
District Court for the Central District of California, Kandypens erroneously
identified its principal place of business as Santa Barbara, California,” and
that “[i]n several filings submitted to the California Secretary of State,
Kandypens erroneously identified its principal place of business as also in
Santa Barbara, California.” (Gibson Surreply Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.)[2]
            Plaintiff
also asserts that “[e]ven if Kandypens were not principally located in
California, Gibson purposefully directed activities at the state in his role as
the company’s majority shareholder, president, and Chief Executive Officer.”
(Reply at p. 4:3-5.) Plaintiff’s counsel’s reply declaration attaches a copy of excerpts of the December 11, 2020
deposition of Kandypens, which designated Gibson as its witness. (Crowell Reply
Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 4 (Gibson Depo.)) In the deposition, Gibson was asked “Q…Do you
understand that to the extent that you are testifying on topics for which you
have been designated as a person most qualified, you are testifying on behalf
of Kandypens?” (Id. at p. 12:8-11.) Gibson responded, “Yeah. It’s my
company.” (Id. at p. 12:12.) Gibson was also
asked, “Could you tell me what your current role is at KandyPens?” to which
Gibson responded “President, founder, and CEO.” (Id.
at p. 14:4-6.)
Plaintiff notes that
Gibson testified that “[s]o I am more of a large, you know, customer --
customer service, shipping and fulfillment, and product creation and
marketing.” (Crowell Reply Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 4 (Gibson
Depo.) at p. 53:3-5.) Gibson testified that “I run all the marketing.” (Id. at p. 41:1.) Plaintiff also cites to the
following testimony from Gibson’s deposition: “Q…Can you tell me, generally,
what KandyPens House LA is? A[.] Yes. It’s a concept that I created that’s
called experiential marketing. It’s where someone can come and learn about our
products, try our products, and get to know the company that makes them. Get to
know the brand…Q[.] Okay. And when did you create KandyPens House LA? A[.]
October of 2019.” (Id. at p. 131:3-18.) Gibson
also testified “A[.] I would say, since we’ve had the house, we’ve had less
than a dozen events.” (Id. at p. 133:11-12.)
In addition, Plaintiff cites to the following testimony from Gibson’s
deposition: “Q[.] And this is a post on the KandyPens Instagram account about
something called Combschella; correct? A[.] Yes…Q[.] And what did your
sponsorship entail? A[.] We had a booth and -- where we showed our products.” (Id. at p. 95:25-96:23.) Plaintiff argues that “Gibson
“intentionally directed activities at California by causing Kandypens’ agents
to engage in economic activity with the state’s residents,” and that Gibson
“also intentionally derived benefits from these California
activities—generating customers and revenue for Kandypens.” (Reply at pp. 4:22-23; 5:3-4.) 
            In
the surreply, Gibson argues that “Plaintiff…does not allege that
Gibson’s conduct took place in California or that Gibson intentionally directed
any conduct to California. In fact, Plaintiff’s allegations are tellingly
devoid of any intent from Gibson to California. The only allegations involving California
pertain to Kandypens and the judgment entered against Kandypens, not to Gibson
as an individual.” (Surreply at p. 5:10-14.) But as set forth above, Plaintiff
provides evidence that Gibson cause the “Kandypens House” to be established in Los
Angeles, that the company hosted several “experiential marketing” events there,
and that Gibson was involved in the company’s sponsorship of the “Combschella”
event. (Reply at p. 4:12-16.) 
            In addition, in the reply, Plaintiff
asserts that “[j]urisdiction exists even if Gibson directed these activities
from Arizona or in his official capacity as Chief Executive Officer.” (Reply at
p. 5:5-6.) Plaintiff cites to Seagate Tech. v. A. J. Kogyo Co. (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 696, 699, where “Nakata,
a Japanese citizen who resides in Japan, was, at all times relevant, the
president of A.J. Kogyo Co., Ltd. (Kogyo), an established Japanese
corporation. Hiroshi Tanaka (also known as Matt Taylor) had worked for Nakata
in Japan. Tanaka and Nakata decided that the United States presented a market
for computer-related products, and Tanaka came to California in order to set up
a business to take advantage of that market: Nippon Electronic Technology
(NET). Nakata, the major investor in the new corporation, became its president
and major shareholder. Tanaka was named as vice-president and was issued
corporate shares on the basis of his services.” “Seagate was approached by
Tanaka on behalf of NET, seeking to purchase, on credit, substantial quantities
of disk drives” and “Seagate was unwilling to extend
credit to NET without some sort of a guaranty.” (Ibid.)
“By the instant action, Seagate sought to recover its loss from Kogyo and from
several individuals, including Nakata, who it alleges conspired to defraud it.
Both Kogyo and Nakata sought to quash service of process.” (Id. at p. 700.) 
            The
Court of Appeal in Seagate found that “some acts taken by a
corporate officer are not only the acts of the corporation, but the acts of the
individual. Where an act of this type creates contact with the forum state,
that contact may be the contact of the individual as well as the contact of the
corporation and, therefore, should be considered in determining if the forum
state has personal jurisdiction over the individual. The basis for the exercise of jurisdiction over
Nakata is that in causing Kogyo to issue the guaranty, Nakata caused the
in-state ‘effect’ that Seagate extended
credit to NET.” (Seagate Tech. v. A. J. Kogyo Co., supra, 219
Cal.App.3d at p. 702.) The Court of Appeal further noted that “[b]y guaranteeing NET’s liabilities, Nakata enabled NET to
do business with Seagate; i.e., to conduct business
within the forum state and to obtain the benefits and protections of its laws.
The guaranty was the method by which NET was to receive direct, and Nakata
indirect, economic advantage from business conducted within the state. For
these purposes it is not particularly relevant that the party directly
benefited was NET rather than Nakata himself. Had NET been owned by another,
the result might be different; but Nakata was NET’s major shareholder and had a
real interest in its profits. Any economic benefit gained by NET was also
gained by Nakata personally.” (Id. at pp. 705-06.) As set
forth above, Gibson acknowledges that “[i]n my capacity as CEO of
Kandypens, I occasionally visited California for legitimate business purposes
that were solely for and on behalf of Kandypens.” (Gibson Decl., ¶ 10.) In
addition, as discussed above, Plaintiff provides evidence that Kandypens
indicated that its principal place of business is in California. 
As to the second prong
of the specific jurisdiction analysis, Plaintiff asserts that this case is
substantially connected to Gibson’s California activities. Plaintiff notes that
the Complaint in this action contains a section alleging that “Defendant
Targets Minors and Young Adults with Social Media Marketing.” (Compl., p.
18:4.) Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “[n]ot only does Kandypens
allow minors to purchase tobacco products from its website, but Kandypens
actively targets minors through the use of social media marketing designed to
reach and appeal to adolescent, teen, and young-adult audiences.” (Compl., ¶
72.) Plaintiff notes that the Complaint’s first cause of action is for
violation of the Unfair Competition Law, and that on April 16, 2021, the Court
issued an Order on Plaintiff’s motion for remedies which indicates, inter
alia, that “[i]njunctive relief involving Defendant’s marketing practices
is appropriate.” (April 16, 2021 Order at p. 5:16.) In the surreply, Gibson
argues that “none of Plaintiff’s allegations are substantially connected
to Gibson’s contacts with California. Rather, Gibson’s conduct, as alleged by
Plaintiff, all occurred in Arizona.” (Surreply at p. 6:2-4.)[3] This
argument is addressed above in connection with the first prong. 
            As
to the third prong, Plaintiff asserts that exercising jurisdiction over Gibson
would be fair and reasonable. Plaintiff cites to Snowney v. Harrah's Entertainment, Inc. (2005)
35 Cal.4th 1054, 1070, where the California Supreme Court found
that in making the determination as to whether the assertion of specific
jurisdiction is fair, “the court must consider the burden on the defendant, the interests
of the forum State, and the plaintiff’s interest in obtaining relief. It must
also weigh in its determination the interstate judicial system’s interest in
obtaining the most efficient resolution of controversies; and the shared
interest of the several States in furthering fundamental substantive social
policies. Where [, as here,] a defendant who purposefully has directed
[its] activities at forum residents seeks to defeat jurisdiction, [it] must
present a compelling case that the presence of some other considerations would
render jurisdiction unreasonable. In this case, defendants do not
contend the exercise of jurisdiction would be unfair or unreasonable, and we
see no reason to conclude otherwise.”
(Internal quotations and citations omitted.) 
The Court notes that in its initial response
to the instant motion, Gibson does not appear to specifically assert that the exercise of jurisdiction over him would be unfair
or unreasonable. In addition, Plaintiff asserts in the reply that “the
case is largely concluded, and a judgment is already entered. Given that Gibson
and Kandypens have been able to litigate this case in California since 2018,
they have conducted marketing activities in California, the company’s Chief
Operating Officer is located in California (Crowell Reply Decl., Ex. 5 (Zender
Dep.), at p. 7:22-25)[4],
its primary bank account is located in a California bank (id., at p. 15:5-15), and Gibson resides in a
neighboring state, Gibson cannot make a convincing argument—let alone a
compelling one—that exercising jurisdiction over him would be unreasonable.”
(Reply at p. 5:26-6:4.) In the surreply, Gibson argues without citing to any
evidence that “[a]ny documents or information related to Gibson are also in
Arizona.” (Surreply at p. 7:2-3.) Gibson also asserts that “Arizona provides an
alternative forum for Plaintiff to try and pursue Gibson on the judgment.”
(Surreply at p. 7:4-5.) However, the Court finds that Plaintiff has the
stronger argument on the third prong. 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Plaintiff has demonstrated that the Court has personal jurisdiction
over Gibson. 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 187 
As to the Code of Civil Procedure section 187 analysis, Plaintiff cites
to Triyar
Hospitality Management, LLC v. WSI (II)—HWP, LLC (2020)
57 Cal.App.5th 636, 641, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he
authority provided to the courts by Code of Civil Procedure section 187 includes the power to add a judgment
debtor where a person or entity is an alter ego of the original judgment
debtor. In doing so, the court is
amending the judgment to add the real judgment debtor. To prevail in a motion
to add judgment debtors, WSI must show that (1) the parties to be added as judgment
debtors had control of the underlying litigation and were virtually represented
in that proceeding; (2) there is such a unity of interest and ownership that
the separate personalities of the entity and the owners no longer exist; and
(3) an inequitable result will follow if the acts are treated as those of the
entity alone.” (Internal citations omitted.) 

As to the first element set forth in Triyar, Plaintiff
asserts that Gibson controlled Kandypens’ legal defense and was
represented. Plaintiff cites to the transcript of the deposition of Gibson, as
PMQ of Kandypens. (Crowell Decl.,
¶ 3, Ex. 1.) As discussed, Gibson testified that his current role at KandyPens
is “President, founder, and CEO.” (Crowell Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 1 (Gibson Depo.) at
p. 14:4-6.) Plaintiff notes that Gibson served as the person most qualified on
the noticed deposition topics for Kandypens. (Id.
at p. 12:4-7.) 
Plaintiff also indicates
that Gibson signed verifications to Kandypens’ responses to Plaintiff’s interrogatories and
requests for admissions. (Crowell
Decl., ¶¶ 8-10, Exs. 6-8.) Plaintiff also provides a copy of the “Declaration
of Graham Gibson in support of Kandypens’ Response in Opposition to Plaintiff’s
Motion for Issue and/or Monetary Sanctions.” (Crowell Decl., ¶ 13, Ex. 11.) Plaintiff notes that this declaration
provides that Gibson “reviewed all the various discovery responses received
from Plaintiff in this case, including all interrogatories, requests for
admission, and requests for production,” that “[o]ther than myself and Mr.
Zender, no other employee at Kandypens is sufficiently knowledgeable or
qualified to respond to Plaintiff’s discovery requests,” that Gibson “worked
diligently with our lawyers to produce all information and documents responsive
to Plaintiff’s discovery requests,” and that he “personally searched Kandypens’
e-mails, documents, and other records to locate information and documents
responsive to Plaintiff’s requests and the Stipulations.” (Crowell Decl., ¶ 13, Ex. 11, ¶¶ 10-12,
14.) 
Plaintiff cites to Alexander v.
Abbey of Chimes (1980) 104 Cal.App.3d 39, 45, where the Court of Appeal noted that “it is now settled
that . . . the authority of the court will be exercised to impose
liability under a judgment upon the alter ego who has had control of the
litigation.” (Internal quotations omitted.) The Alexander Court found that “[i]n the instant action, there was
sufficient evidence that appellant had controlled the litigation between
respondents and Abbey. The attorney that represented Abbey at the original trial testified that he primarily dealt
during the litigation with appellant; that appellant was kept fully advised of
what was occurring in the lawsuits and in the process of the lawsuits; that appellant
was also an attorney and his discussions with appellant were on a
lawyer-to-lawyer basis; that appellant was completely familiar with all of the
issues that were going to be tried and prepared documents that were used in the
litigation; that hearings were continued and reset at times convenient to
appellant; and that appellant participated in the litigation both as chief
operating officer and as a lawyer.” (Id. at p. 46.) Plaintiff asserts that
similarly here, Gibson controlled the underlying litigation. 
In his response, Gibson
asserts that “Plaintiff’s argument that Gibson ‘dominated’ Kandypens’
defense and solely controlled that defense is false and contrary to the facts
known to Plaintiff.” (Response at p. 4:14-15.) Gibson states that he is the
“majority shareholder of Kandypens” at 56%, and that “[t]he other shareholders
of Kandypens include James Zender (24%) and JDI Investments (20%).” (Gibson
Decl., ¶¶ 18-19.) Gibson states that “[w]hile I occasionally communicated with
Kandypens’ counsel regarding Kandypens’ defense, I was not the only shareholder
to do so, as James Zender also participated in these communications and made
decisions regarding Kandypens’ defense strategies and decision-making
processes.” (Gibson Decl., ¶ 21.) However, Plaintiff notes that “Gibson argues
that he was not the only person who helped with Kandypens defense…But he cites
no authority for the proposition that control precludes anyone else’s
involvement in the case.” (Reply at p. 6:23-25.) 
Gibson also asserts that “Plaintiff also has not shown that Gibson was
‘virtually represented’ in a personal capacity.” (Response at p. 4:23-24.)
Gibson states in his supporting declaration that “[a]ll decisions made during
the underlying litigation were to benefit Kandypens, not me or any other
shareholder personally.” (Gibson Decl., ¶ 22.) Plaintiff counters that Gibson
does not explain how Kandypens’ interests diverged from his in the litigation.
Plaintiff cites to Toho-Towa Co., Ltd. v. Morgan Creek Productions, Inc. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 1096, 1100, where “Morgan Creek Productions, Inc. (MCP), a Delaware
corporation with its principal place of business in Los Angeles, appeal[ed] the
trial court’s order adding it to a judgment for more than $5.7 million
which Toho-Towa Co., Ltd., a
Japanese company (Toho-Towa) was awarded
against two MCP-affiliated companies, Morgan Creek
International B.V., a Netherlands company (B.V.), and
Morgan Creek International Ltd., a Bermuda corporation (Ltd.).” The Toho-Towa Court found, inter
alia, that “B.V. and Ltd. filed a responsive pleading, participated
in discovery, opposed summary judgment, and pursued a JAMS appeal. Not only was
a defense provided, but it was provided courtesy of MCP, which retained
counsel, consulted with counsel on strategy, supervised the arbitration, and
paid the legal fees. These facts amount to substantial evidence that MCP
controlled the underlying litigation. As Toho-Towa observes,
quoting from a similar case: ‘There was no showing below, and there is not the
slightest suggestion in the briefs of appellants, that anyone, other than [the
alter ego], had control of the litigation. Who else had authority to employ
attorneys and provide for the expense? Who else was interested in the
fate of the corporation? If not [the alter ego], who else? Appellants do not
say. Manifestly, [the alter ego] had control of the defense of the action by
[the primary defendant].’” (Id. at p. 1110.)
 Based on a consideration of the foregoing, the
Court finds that Plaintiff has demonstrated that Gibson “had control of the underlying litigation and [was]
virtually represented in that proceeding…” (Triyar
Hospitality Management, LLC v. WSI (II)—HWP, LLC, supra, 57 Cal.App.5th at p. 641.)

As to the second element
set forth in Triyar, Plaintiff asserts that Kandypens
and Gibson did not maintain separate identities. “Ordinarily,
a corporation is regarded as a legal entity separate and distinct from its
stockholders, officers and directors. Under the alter ego doctrine, however,
where a corporation is used by an individual or individuals, or by another
corporation, to perpetrate fraud, circumvent a statute, or accomplish some
other wrongful or inequitable purpose, a court may disregard the corporate
entity and treat the corporation’s acts as if they were done by the persons
actually controlling the corporation. In general, the two requirements for
applying the alter ego doctrine are that (1) there is such a unity of interest
and ownership between the corporation and the individual or organization
controlling it that their separate personalities no longer exist, and (2)
failure to disregard the corporate entity would sanction a fraud or promote
injustice.” (Communist Party v. 522
Valencia, Inc. (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 980, 993 [internal citations omitted].) Plaintiff notes
that “[u]ndercapitalization of the business, commingling of corporate and
personal funds, and failure to observe the corporate formalities are examples
of business practices that would leave individual shareholders vulnerable to a
finding of alter ego liability.” (Toho-Towa Co.,
Ltd. v. Morgan Creek Productions, Inc., supra, 217 Cal.App.4th at p.
1107.) “An important factor in determining alter ego liability is that a
corporate entity is so undercapitalized that it is likely to have no sufficient
assets to meet its debts.” (Butler America, LLC v. Aviation Assurance Co., LLC (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 136, 146.)

Plaintiff indicates that
here, Gibson testified that “I'm 56 percent owner.” (Crowell Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 1
(Gibson Depo.) at p. 151:5.) In addition, as set forth above, Gibson testified
that his role at Kandypens was the “President, founder, and CEO.” (Id. at p. 14:4-6.) Plaintiff testified that “It’s
my company.” (Id. at p. 12:12.) 
Plaintiff asserts that “[b]ecause
Kandypens was Gibson’s company, he dispensed with corporate formalities,
particularly when it came to respecting the role of the board of directors.”
(Mot. at p. 7:26-27.) Plaintiff cites to the March 9, 2023 debtor’s examination
of James Zender, who states that he is the “cofounder, COO of Kandypens.”
(Crowell Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 2, p. 5:16-17.) Mr. Zender was asked, “does Kandypens
prepare board meeting minutes?” to which Mr. Zender responded, “No.” (Id. at p. 13:23-24.)  Mr. Zender also stated that “[b]eing that we
don’t have a Board, it’s usually just nothing formal when we have meetings and
things like that. So we don’t have specific board meetings being that it’s just
two of us.” (Id. at p. 14:1-4.) Plaintiff
notes that Gibson does not respond to this point in his response. 
Plaintiff also asserts that Gibson used the company to fund his other
business interests to the Kandypens’ detriment. Plaintiff indicates that
Kandypens made a $250,000.00 investment in a company called “Choice Wellness.” (Crowell
Decl., ¶ 14, Ex. 12.) Mr. Zender
testified that it was “correct” that “Choice Wellness” was “basically Mr. Gibson’s side gig or…venture.” (Crowell
Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 2, p. 19:7-18.) Mr. Zender further testified that Kandypens did
not receive any return for the $250,00.00 loan. (Id.
at p. 20:1-3.) In response to the question, “as far as you know, does
Choice Wellness…currently have any assets,” Mr. Zender responded, “…I’m sure we
have product in the warehouse, but that’s all that I’m aware of.” (Id. at p. 20:16-19.) Plaintiff asserts that
“[t]he Choice Wellness transaction was another example of Gibson’s disregard of
corporate formalities. Because Kandypens did not hold formal board meetings,
let alone prepare meeting minutes, there is no record that the board approved
the investment or concluded that it served the company’s interests.” (Mot. at
p. 9:3-6.) 
In addition, Plaintiff asserts that “[a]nother example of
Gibson’s self-dealing is the Kandypens House (also called the Blue Jay House).”
(Mot. at p. 9:12-13.) Plaintiff indicates starting in November 2019, Kandypens
leased a large house in Los Angeles for a rent of approximately $20,000 per
month. (Crowell Decl., ¶ 16, Ex.
14.) Gibson was asked in his deposition, “[c]an you tell me, generally, what KandyPens House LA is?” to which Gibson responded,
“Yes. It’s a concept that I created that’s called experiential marketing. It’s
where someone can come and learn about our products, try our products, and get
to know the company that makes them. Get to know the brand.” (Crowell Decl., ¶
3, Ex. 1 (Gibson Depo.) at p. 131:6-11.) Plaintiff asserts that although the house
was supposed to be an “experiential marketing” concept, Gibson used it for his
outside business interests and personal enjoyment. Gibson testified that events
hosted at the “KandyPens House
LA” include “[a]lot of health and wellness events…we had a lot of CBD vendors
come and show their products. We had some birthday parties for celebrities. We
had a Halloween party there in October. We had a 420 party on 4/20.” (Crowell
Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 1 (Gibson Depo.) at p. 133:1-7.) Gibson also testified that he used the house
as “a vacation home.” (Id. at p. 133:25.) 
Plaintiff also asserts
that Gibson “used his control of Kandypens to give himself outsized
shareholder distributions without regard to the company’s creditors and
prospective liabilities.” (Mot. at p. 10:11-12.) Plaintiff notes that the
instant action was filed in October of 2018. Plaintiff states that “[b]etween
Kandypens’ establishment in 2014 and the end of 2018, the company made
distributions of $793,430.” (Mot. at p. 10:13-14, citing Crowell Decl., ¶ 17, Ex. 15
(2018 Year-End Financials) at p. 2.) Plaintiff asserts that “in 2019,
distributions soared to almost $1.5 million for that year alone,” and that
“just the first half of 2020, amidst a deadly pandemic, economic catastrophe,
and the vigorous litigation of this action, the company distributed another
$1.2 million.” (Mot. at p. 10:15-18, citing Crowell Decl., ¶¶ 14-15, Exs. 12-13, pp. 2.) 
Plaintiff cites to Automotriz del
Golfo de California S. A. de C. v. v. Resnick (1957) 47 Cal.2d 792, 796-797, where the California Supreme Court noted
that “[a]nother factor to be considered in
determining whether individuals dealing through a corporation
should be held personally responsible for the corporate obligations is whether
there was an attempt to provide adequate capitalization for the corporation. In
Ballantine on Corporations (rev. ed., 1946), at pages 302-303, it is stated: If a corporation is organized and carries on business without
substantial capital in such a way
that the corporation is likely to have no sufficient assets available to meet
its debts, it is inequitable that shareholders should set up such a flimsy organization to escape personal liability. The
attempt to do corporate business without providing any sufficient basis of
financial responsibility to creditors is an abuse of the separate entity and
will be ineffectual to exempt the shareholders from corporate debts. It is
coming to be recognized as the policy of the law that shareholders should in
good faith put at the risk of the business unincumbered capital reasonably
adequate for its prospective liabilities. If the capital is illusory or
trifling compared with the business to be done and the risks of loss, this is a ground for denying the separate entity privilege.” (Internal quotations omitted.) 
In his response, Gibson asserts that
“[t]here is no unity of interest and ownership such that the separate
personalities of the entity and its owners no longer exists.” (Response at p.
5:3-4.) Gibson states in his supporting declaration that “I have never
commingled KandyPens’ funds or assets with my own,” and that “Kandypens’ had
(and still has) its own bank account and assets separate and apart from any
bank accounts and assets held by me.” (Gibson Decl., ¶¶ 23-24.) Gibson states
that “I have never diverted Kandypens’ funds or assets to myself or used them
in any manner other than for Kandypens’ business purposes.” (Gibson Decl., ¶
25.)
Gibson further asserts that “Plaintiff points to the ‘Kandypens House’
and the investment into Choice Wellness to argue Kandypens and Gibson are
one-in-the-same, but Plaintiff again misstates the facts.” (Response at p.
5:18-20.) Gibson states “[t]he ‘Kandypens House’ was used by all Kandypens
shareholders and various employees to advertise and promote Kandypens’ business
and products.” (Gibson Decl., ¶ 26.) But as noted by Plaintiff, Gibson does not
deny that he used the Kandypens House as his vacation home. (Reply at p. 9:5-6.)
 
Gibson also states that “Kandypens is the sole owner of Choice
Wellness.” (Gibson Decl., ¶ 28.) Gibson states that “I have never had (and do
not currently have) any ownership interest at all in Choice Wellness.” (Gibson
Decl., ¶ 29.) Plaintiff counters that “[t]hat is the point. Kandypens’ Chief
Operating Officer testified that Choice Wellness was Gibson’s CBD side
venture…But instead of investing in the venture himself, Gibson had his alter
ego, Kandypens, make the investment.” (Reply at p. 8:26-28.) 
Gibson also states that “[t]he reason why Kandypens stopped paying on
the judgment is because it lost a lawsuit with its biggest competitor, which
resulted in significant financial harm to the company and its business
operations.” (Gibson Decl., ¶ 34.) Gibson further asserts that “[t]he demand
for Kandypens’ products has also decreased year-over-year, such that the
revenue simply does not exist to keep the lights on and pay the judgment.”
(Gibson Decl., ¶ 35.) Gibson states that “[a]fter judgment was entered against
Kandypens in August 2021, all distributions to all shareholders, including me,
stopped.” (Gibson Decl., ¶ 31.) Gibson argues that “[t]he facts show that
Kandypens paid on the judgment for as long as it could, and then had to stop
paying because its business operations deteriorated due to the lawsuit with its
competitor and a change in market conditions.” (Response at p. 6:21-24.) Plaintiff
counters that Gibson’s “defenses against undercapitalization are unpersuasive.”
(Reply at p. 8:6.) Plaintiff notes that the instant action was filed in October
2018, and states that “the company paid out $1.2 million to shareholders in the
first half of 2020 alone.” (Reply at p. 8:10-12.) Plaintiff asserts that
“Gibson was required to provide Kandypens with adequate capital to cover its
‘prospective liabilities’ and ‘risks of loss,’ not just its immediate
liabilities.” (Reply at p. 8:12-14; see Automotriz del Golfo de California S. A. de C. v.
v. Resnick, supra,
47 Cal.2d at p. 797, “[i]t is coming to be
recognized as the policy of the law that shareholders should in good faith put
at the risk of the business unincumbered capital reasonably adequate for its
prospective liabilities. If the capital is illusory or trifling compared with
the business to be done and the risks of loss, this is a ground for denying the separate entity privilege.”
[Internal quotations omitted].) 
In light of the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has
demonstrated that “there is such a unity of interest
and ownership that the separate personalities of the entity and the owners no
longer exist.” (Triyar
Hospitality Management, LLC v. WSI (II)—HWP, LLC, supra, 57 Cal.App.5th at p. 641.)

As to the third element set
forth in Triyar, Plaintiff asserts that “[a]dhering
to the fiction of Kandypens’ separate existence from Gibson would lead to an
inequitable result.” (Mot. at p. 12:1-2.) Plaintiff asserts that “[t]he
plaintiff’s inability to collect a judgment satisfies the inequitable result
requirement for alter ego liability.” (Mot. at p. 12:9-10.) Plaintiff cites to Butler
America, LLC v. Aviation Assurance Co., LLC (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 136, 147, where the Court of Appeal noted that
“Garrick argues there is no evidence that an equitable result will follow if
the acts of AFS are treated as those of AFS alone. But it would be an
inequitable result to preclude Butler from
collecting its judgment by treating AFS as a separate entity.” Plaintiff asserts that here, Kandypens “is unable
to satisfy the judgment in large part due to Gibson’s improper use of its
corporate form for his own purposes. Treating its assets as his own, Gibson
caused the company to waste significant sums on his side business venture
(Choice Wellness) and his party house (Kandypens House). He also used
extravagantly large shareholder distributions, relative to Kandypens’
liabilities, risks, and earnings, to divert millions of dollars of much-needed
assets from the company to himself, leaving it dangerously undercapitalized.
And he took these actions after the People had commenced their action, fully
aware of the company’s potential legal liability. It would be unjust to treat
Gibson separately from the company he controlled, precluding the People from
collecting the judgment. Therefore, it would be entirely proper to treat him as
Kandypens’ alter ego and add him as a judgment debtor.” (Mot. at p.
12:19-13:2.) 
In the response, Gibson argues that “[n]o inequitable result will
occur from the recognition of Kandypens’ corporate identity. Kandypens is a
legitimate corporation, with its incorporation in Delaware and its principal
place of business in Arizona. No dispute exists that it has stopped paying on
the judgment owed to Plaintiff. Plaintiff therefore has the right to accelerate
the full amount of the judgment and to enforce that judgment against Kandypens.
For example, it can conduct discovery regarding Kandypens’ finances, try to
garnish Kandypens’ bank accounts, initiate collection proceedings, and take
other permitted action. Plaintiff is therefore in no worse position than that
of a typical judgment creditor. No inequitable result will occur.” (Response at
p. 7:4-12.) Plaintiff counters that “[a]s long as Kandypens is the sole
judgment debtor, it is highly unlikely it will ever have the assets to satisfy
the judgment.” (Reply at p. 9:15-16.) Plaintiff cites to the debtor’s
examination of James Zender, who stated that “[r]ight now we’re just,
literally, barely making it,” and that “[i]t’s just kind of an ever present
downward spiral because your sales are nothing like they were.”  (Crowell Reply Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 5, pp.
29:18-19; 30:1-2.) Plaintiff notes that in Triyar Hospitality Management, LLC v. WSI (II)—HWP, LLC, supra, 57 Cal.App.5th at page 643, the Court of Appeal found that “as long as Triyar is the sole
judgment debtor, it is highly unlikely it will ever have assets to satisfy the
judgment. Given that the trial court found Triyar and the
Yaris are one and the same, it would be inequitable to preclude WSI from collecting its judgment by treating Triyar as a separate entity.” 
Gibson further asserts that “an inequitable result will occur if the
Court binds Gibson to the judgment.” (Response at p. 7:13-14.) Gibson states
that “[i]f the Court grants Plaintiff's Motion to Amend Judgment, I will have
to file for personal bankruptcy, which will create for me an unnecessary
hardship.” (Gibson Decl., ¶ 37.) Plaintiff counters that Gibson “argues that
adding him as a judgment debtor would cause an inequitable result against him
because he cannot afford the judgment. But he fails to provide any factual
support for that assertion.” (Reply at p. 9:25-27.) Plaintiff also notes that
Gibson “cites no authority for the proposition that once alter ego liability
has been established, and an inequitable result for the plaintiff has been
shown, the alter ego’s ability to pay should be considered by the court.”
(Reply at p. 9:27-10:2.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has
demonstrated that “an inequitable result will follow
if the acts are treated as those of the entity alone.” (Triyar Hospitality Management, LLC v. WSI
(II)—HWP, LLC,
supra, 57 Cal.App.5th at p. 641.) 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for an order amending the
Judgment entered on July 16, 2021, to add Graham Gibson as a judgment debtor is
granted. 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of this ruling. 
 
DATED:  November 6, 2023  
                        ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M. Treu
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court


