 Case Number:  22STCV34243    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MICHAEL BRAGAR, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
CHRISTOPHER D. MITCHELL, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV34243
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 2, 2024
 Calendar Number:  10



 
 
 
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Michael Bragar (“Plaintiff”) moves
for summary adjudication of the first, second, third, fifth, and eighth claims
brought against Defendants Christopher D. Mitchell and Westlake Capital
Partners, Inc. (“Westlake”) (collectively, “Responding Defendants”) by Plaintiff
in his First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for summary
adjudication.
 
Background
 
This case concerns an investment that Plaintiff made in
Defendant Westlake, his employer at the time. Westlake is a gold and silver
investment dealer. Plaintiff worked for Westlake, dealing gold and silver.
Plaintiff alleges that he was persuaded to purchase an interest in Westlake
based on fraudulent misrepresentations about Westlake’s financial condition.
After the purchase, Plaintiff alleges that he learned that Westlake’s financial
condition was far worse than he had been told and that Defendants had committed
a number of breaches of fiduciary duty against him.
 
Plaintiff filed this case on October 25, 2022, naming
Mitchell, Westlake, and Bitcoin Advizers, LLC (“Bitcoin Advizers”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) as defendants.
 
On December 16, 2022, Plaintiff served Requests for
Admission (“RFA”), Set One on Mitchel, Westlake, and Bitcoin Advizers.
 
On March 28, 2022, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion to
deem the matters set forth in his RFAs admitted by Mitchell, Westlake, and
Bitcoin Advizers.
 
On April 13, 2023, the Court denied Defendants’ ex parte
application for relief from the order deeming the RFAs admitted.
 
As a result, the matters in the RFAs (Sherman Decl., Ex. A
(“Admissions”)) constitute judicial admissions by Responding Defendants.
 
On September 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed the FAC, which is now
the operative complaint, alleging (1) fraud, (2) fraudulent concealment; (3)
negligent misrepresentation; (4) breach of contract and the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing; (5) conversion in violation of Penal Code, section
496; (6) breach of fiduciary duty; (7) constructive termination in violation of
public policy; and (8) rescission.
 
On February 28, 2024, Plaintiff moved for summary
adjudication of the first, second, third, fifth, and eighth claims. Responding
Defendants did not file an opposition.
 
Undisputed Facts
 
Plaintiff was employed with Defendant Westlake from August
2020 to April 2021. (Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) 8.) 
 
In November 2020, Mitchell approached Plaintiff about
purchasing a membership interest in Westlake. (UMF 9.) Mitchell represented to
Plaintiff that $100,000.00 was a fair value for a 12.5% interest in Westlake.
(Admissions at p. 3:9-11.) Mitchell represented to Plaintiff that Larin
Marrisett (“Marrisett”) had previous experience with lead generation and would
be making instrumental contributions to Westlake’s lead generation process.
(Admissions at p. 3:13-15.) Mitchell represented that Plaintiff’s investment
would be used to purchase or develop better quality leads for gold and silver
sales, using Marrisett’s expertise. (Admissions at p. 3:17-19.) Mitchell
represented that he planned to dedicate his time to selling for Westlake.
(Admissions at p. 3:21-22.) Mitchell represented that Plaintiff should expect
to recover his $100,000.00 investment in no more than 18 months. (Admissions at
p. 3:24-25.) Mitchell represented that other investors were looking to put
money into Westlake as of that date. (Admissions at p. 3:27-28.) Mitchell
represented that Westlake would hire at least six new employees if Plaintiff
invested in Westlake. (Admissions at p. 4:2-3.) Mitchell represented that
Westlake would set up dialers for prospective clients if Plaintiff invested in
Westlake. (Admissions at p. 4:5-6.) Responding Defendants have admitted that
each of these representations were false. (Admissions at p. 4:8.) Mitchell knew
that the representations were false at the time that he made them to Plaintiff.
(Admissions at p. 4:10-11.)
 
On at least one occasion prior to November 2020, Marrisett
discussed with Mitchell the possibility of ending his relationship with
Westlake. (Admissions at p.4:13-14.) On at least one occasion prior to November
2020, Marrisett threatened to initiate litigation against Mitchell or Westlake.
(Admissions at p.4:16-17.) In December 2020, Mitchell also knew of the
existence of potential claims against Westlake. (Admissions at p. 4:2-6.) None
of Plaintiff’s investment was, in fact, spent on leads that took advantage of
Marrisett’s expertise. (Admissions at p. 4:27-28.)
 
In November 2020, Mitchell provided financial records to
Plaintiff, namely, a report dated October 30, 2020 and a Balance Sheet prepared
on that date. (UMF 21.) Responding Defendants have admitted that they did not
provide Plaintiff with accurate financial information on or before December 9,
2020. (Admissions at p. 5:11-15.)
 
Plaintiff relied on the representations and financial
documents provided to him by Mitchell when entering into the Membership
Interest Purchase Agreement (“MIP Agreement”), under which Plaintiff purchased
a 12.5% interest in Westlake for the price of $100,000.00. (UMF 25, 27.) The
MIP Agreement was drafted by Defendants. (UMF 26.) Plaintiff was not
represented by counsel in connection with the MIP Agreement, and relied
entirely on the representations and financial documents that Mitchell provided
to him in executing the MIP Agreement. (UMF 28.)
 
After executing the MIP Agreement, Plaintiff learned that
the representations made to him had been false, and demanded a return of the purchase
price. (UMF 29-30.) Defendants have refused to return the purchase price. (UMF
31.) Plaintiff would not have paid any amount for an interest in Westlake if he
had known that Mitchell’s representations were false. (UMF 32.) Due to the
falsity of the representations, an ownership share in Westlake has no value to
Plaintiff. (UMF 33.)
 
Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co., supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to
grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
“In ruling on the motion,
the court must consider all of the evidence and all of the inferences
reasonably drawn therefrom [citation] and must view such evidence [citations]
and such inferences [citations] in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.” (Aguilar, supra, at pp. 844-845 [quotation marks
omitted].) 
 
“On a motion for summary
judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima
facie
showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) 
 
“A plaintiff or
cross-complainant has met his or her burden of showing that there is no defense
to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the cause of
action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action. Once the
plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
defendant or cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The
defendant or cross-defendant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of
its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but,
instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)
 
 To establish a triable issue of material fact,
the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151,
166.) “If the plaintiff cannot do
so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente
Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
 
Discussion
 
First Claim – Fraud
 
“The elements of fraud are (a) a
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
 
The facts
constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to
every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege
fraud against a corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons
allegedly making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom
they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
The undisputed, and largely admitted, facts show that
Mitchell made a broad array of representations to Plaintiff which Mitchell knew
were not true, and which Plaintiff relied on to enter the MIP Agreement for
lack of better information or legal representation. The undisputed facts
further show that Plaintiff has suffered damage because he purchased an
ownership share that turned out to be of no value to him and was unable to
recover his purchase price from Defendants. There is therefore no triable issue
of fact on the elements of misrepresentation, knowledge of falsity, justifiable
reliance, or resulting damage.
 
The only remaining element is intent to induce reliance. “[T]he
only intent by a defendant necessary to prove a case of fraud is the intent to
induce reliance. Moreover, liability is affixed not only where the plaintiff's
reliance is intended by the defendant but also where it is reasonably expected
to occur.” (Lovejoy v. AT&T Corp. (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 85, 93.) 
 
Here, Responding Defendants made representations about
Westlake’s financial condition and future that they knew to be false while they
were trying to convince Plaintiff to invest in Westlake. Responding Defendants
made these representations around the same time that they gave Plaintiff false
financial documents pertaining to Westlake. Where Defendants provided Plaintiff
with a glut of information that they knew to be false right at the time when
they sought a financial transaction to which the information was material, the
only reasonable inference is that they intended to induce Plaintiff to rely on
that false information and enter the transaction. 
 
With this claim, and all other claims discussed below,
Plaintiff met his initial burden to show that all elements of  his claim have been met and that he is
entitled to judgment.  For their part, Responding
Defendants failed to show a triable issue of fact after the burden shifted to
them.  Because there is no triable issue
as to any element and Plaintiff has established the claim, the Court grants
summary adjudication on this claim.
 
Second Claim – Fraudulent Concealment
 
“[T]he elements of an action for fraud and deceit based on
concealment are: (1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed a material
fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the
plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed
the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have
been unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of
the concealed or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or
suppression of the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (Lovejoy
v. AT&T Corp. (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 151, 157–158.)
 
A duty to disclose arises when “[1] a defendant owes a
fiduciary duty to a plaintiff … [2] when the defendant has exclusive knowledge
of material facts not known to the plaintiff; [3] when the defendant actively
conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; or [4] when the defendant makes
partial representations but also suppresses some material facts.” (Jones v.
ConocoPhillips Co. (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1199 [internal citations
and quotation marks omitted; cleaned up].)
 
“Each of the [latter] three circumstances in which
nondisclosure may be actionable presupposes the existence of some other
relationship between the plaintiff and defendant in which a duty to disclose
can arise.” (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336–337.)
“[S]uch a relationship can only come into being as a result of some sort of
transaction between the parties.” (Id. at p. 337.) “Thus, a duty to
disclose may arise from the relationship between seller and buyer, employer and
prospective employee, doctor and patient, or parties entering into any kind of
contractual agreement.” (Ibid.)
 
As discussed above, there is no triable issue that
Defendants concealed material facts about Westlake (namely, that Marrisett had
discussed leaving and that Westlake faced litigation risks), that Defendants
intended to induce Plaintiff to rely on the facts’ absence, that Plaintiff was
unaware of the true facts and would not have entered the MIP Agreement if he
had known the truth, and that Plaintiff sustained damage.
 
Finally, there is no triable issue that Defendants had
exclusive knowledge of the concealed facts, which were not known to Plaintiff.
Defendants therefore had a duty to disclose.
 
Because there is no triable issue as to any element and
Plaintiff has established the claim, the Court grants summary adjudication on
this claim.
 
Third Claim – Negligent Misrepresentation
 
The elements of a cause of action for
negligent misrepresentation include “[m]isrepresentation of a past or existing
material fact, without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, and with
intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of
the truth and justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to
whom it was directed; and resulting damage.” (Hydro-Mill Co., Inc. v. Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates,
Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1145, 1154, quotation marks omitted.) The facts
constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to
every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud
against a corporation, the plaintiff must plead the names of the persons
allegedly making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom
they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)
 
“California courts
have recognized a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, i.e., a duty
to communicate accurate information, in two circumstances. The first situation
arises where providing false information poses a risk of and results in physical
harm to person or property. The second situation arises where information is
conveyed in a commercial setting for a business purpose.” (Friedman v. Merck & Co. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 454, 477.)

 
As discussed above, there is no triable issue of fact that
Defendants knowingly provided Plaintiff with false material representations
about Westlake, that Plaintiff justifiably relied on the representations, or
that Plaintiff suffered damage as a result. Further, there is no triable issue
that the information was conveyed in a commercial setting for a business
purpose, because it was conveyed in the process of persuading Plaintiff to
purchase an ownership share of Westlake. There is similarly no triable issue as
to intent to induce reliance. 
 
Because there is no triable issue as to any element and
Plaintiff has established the claim, the Court grants summary adjudication on
this claim.
 
Fifth Claim – Conversion under Penal Code, Section 496
 
Penal Code, section 496 provides that to sustain a
conviction for receiving stolen property, the plaintiff must prove (1) the
property was stolen; (2) the defendant knew the property was stolen; and (3)
the defendant had possession of the stolen property. (People v. Land (1994)
30 Cal.App.4th 220, 223; Penal Code, § 496.)
 
“A violation of section 496(a) may, by its own terms, relate
to property that has been ‘stolen’ or ‘that has been obtained in any manner
constituting theft or extortion.’” (Switzer v. Wood (2019) 35
Cal.App.5th 116, 126.) “A criminal conviction is not a prerequisite to recovery
of treble damages. All that is required for civil liability to attach under
section 496(c), including entitlement to treble damages, is that a “violation”
of subdivision (a) or (b) of section 496 is found to have occurred.” (Ibid.)
A person who defrauds another of money is guilty of theft. (Id. at p.
127, quoting Penal Code, § 484, subd. (a).)
 
As discussed above, there is no dispute of fact that
Responding Defendants defrauded Plaintiff of money. Nor is there a dispute of
fact that Responding Defendants knew that they had induced Plaintiff to pay the
purchase price by making false representations, or that they refused to return
the $100,000.00 that Plaintiff paid for the ownership shares when Plaintiff
demanded its return. Finally, there is no dispute that Defendants had
possession of the money that Plaintiff paid them.
 
Because there is no triable issue as to any element and
Plaintiff has established the claim, the Court grants summary adjudication on
this claim.
 
Eighth Claim – Rescission
 
A party to a contract may rescind it where the contract is
unlawful, was the result of mistake, duress, menace, fraud, or undue influence,
or will prejudice the public interest if permitted to stand, or if there was a
failure of consideration. (Civ. Code, § 1689, subd. (b).)
 
As discussed above, there is no triable issue that Plaintiff
entered into the MIP Agreement as a result of fraud committed against him by
Responding Defendants. Plaintiff may therefore rescind the MIP Agreement.
 
Because there is no triable issue as to any element and
Plaintiff has established the claim, the Court grants summary adjudication on
this claim.