  Case Number:  22STCV16403    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JACOB HERNANDEZ, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
PEPE’S TOWING, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV16403
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 2, 2024
 Calendar Number:  5



 
 
 
Plaintiff Jacob Hernandez (“Plaintiff”) moves for the
appointment of Plaintiff’s surviving spouse, Rocio Lopez (“Lopez”); and
Plaintiff’s minor sons Adrian D. Ruiz-Hernandez and Nathan A. Hernandez (acting
through their mother and guardian Adriana Rodriguez, the former wife of
Plaintiff) as the successors in interest of Plaintiff, who is deceased. 
 
Plaintiff additionally moves for an order authorizing Lopez
to be served by publication as a Defendant/Involuntary Plaintiff under Code of
Civil Procedure, section 415.50, on the grounds that she is a necessary party
under Code of Civil Procedure, section 389, but cannot be located after a
diligent search.
 
The Court requests argument on the following issues:
 
(1) Whether this action arose during Plaintiff’s marriage to
Lopez;
 
(2) Whether the interest in this action constitutes
community property, quasi-community property, or separate property in
Plaintiff’s marriage with Lopez; and
 
(3) whether Plaintiff’s firm searched the telephone
directory, voters’ register, or real and personal property index for Lopez.
 
            The
Court may need to continue this hearing for further briefing or information.
 
Background
 
This is an employment action. Plaintiff was employed by
Defendant Pepe’s Inc. (“Defendant”), who was originally sued as Pepe’s Towing.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on May 18, 2022, raising claims
for (1) wrongful termination in violation of public policy; (2) medical leave
retaliation; (3) retaliation for requesting accommodations for disabilities
under FEHA; (4) failure to engage in a timely, good faith interactive process
under FEHA; (5) failure to reasonably accommodate disabilities under FEHA; (6)
disability discrimination under FEHA; (7) harassment based on disabilities
under FEHA; (8) retaliation for opposing violations of FEHA; (9) failure to
prevent and stop harassment, discrimination, and retaliation under FEHA; and
(1) whistleblower retaliation under Labor Code, sections 1102.5 and 1102.6.
 
Plaintiff alleges that the wrongdoing occurred from roughly
December 2020 to February 2022. (Complaint ¶ 13.) Plaintiff was terminated on
February 11, 2022. (Complaint ¶ 11.)
 
Plaintiff passed away on September 30, 2023 at Adventist
Health White Memorial Hospital, 1720 E Cesar E Chavez Avenue, Los Angeles,
California. (Rodriguez Decl., Ex. 1.)
 
Plaintiff filed this motion on June 10, 2024. No party filed
an opposition.
 
Legal Standard
 
“A cause of action that survives the death of the person
entitled to commence an action or proceeding passes to the decedent’s successor
in interest . . . and an action may be commenced by the decedent’s personal
representatives or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in interest.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 377.30.) After the death of a plaintiff, the court, on
motion, shall allow a pending action that does not abate to be continued by the
decedent’s personal representative or successor-in-interest. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 377.31.)
 
The person who seeks to commence or continue a pending
action as the decedent’s successor-in-interest shall execute and file an
affidavit or declaration providing: (1) the decedent’s name, (2) the date and
place of decedent’s death, (3) “No proceeding is now pending in California for
administration of the decedent’s estate,” (4) a copy of the final order showing
the distribution of the decedent’s cause of action to the
successor-in-interest, if the decedent’s estate was administered, (5) either
the affiant or declarant is the decedent’s successor in interest or the affiant
or declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s successor in
interest, with facts in support thereof, (6) “No other person has a superior
right to commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for the
decedent in the pending action or proceeding,” and (7) the statements are true,
under penalty of perjury. (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32.)
 
“For the purposes of [appointing a successor in a legal
action], ‘decedent's successor in interest’ means the beneficiary of the
decedent’s estate or other successor in interest who succeeds to a cause of
action or to a particular item of the property that is the subject of a cause
of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.11.)
 
“For the purposes of
this chapter, ‘beneficiary of the decedent's estate’ means:
 
(a)
If the decedent died leaving a will, the sole beneficiary or all of the
beneficiaries who succeed to a cause of action, or to a particular item of
property that is the subject of a cause of action, under the decedent's will.
 
(b)
If the decedent died without leaving a will, the sole person or all of the
persons who succeed to a cause of action, or to a particular item of property
that is the subject of a cause of action, under Sections 6401 and 6402 of the
Probate Code or, if the law of a sister state or foreign nation governs
succession to the cause of action or particular item of property, under the law
of the sister state or foreign nation.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.10.)
 
Discussion
 
Appointment of Successor
 
It is unclear who the proper successor is.
 
Adriana Rodriguez, the mother of Adrian Ruiz-Hernandez and
Nathan Hernandez, has provided a declaration containing all of the information
required by Code of Civil Procedure, section 377.32 as to Adrian Ruiz-Hernandez
and Nathan Hernandez’s rights to step in as successors to Plaintiff.
 
Geoffrey Lyon declares that Plaintiff had married Lopez in
Las Vegas, Nevada. (Lyon Decl. ¶ 2.) Lyon declares that his firm was unable to
find any divorce records between Plaintiff and Lopez. (Lyon Decl. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff
and Lopez married on December 5, 2016. (Koh Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. 2.)
 
Plaintiff asserts that Plaintiff did not leave behind a
will. (Motion at p. 4:23-24.) Plaintiff cites to paragraph 2 of a declaration
from “Adrana Hernandez” which does not appear to exist. Assuming that Plaintiff
meant to refer to the declaration of Adriana Rodriguez, the Court is still
unable to find evidence in the Rodriguez declaration that Plaintiff died
intestate.
 
Even assuming that Plaintiff died intestate, there are still
gaps in Plaintiff’s analysis, as discussed below.
 
“As
to community property, the intestate share of the surviving spouse is the
one-half of the community property that belongs to the decedent under Section
100.
 
(b)
As to quasi-community property, the intestate share of the surviving spouse is
the one-half of the quasi-community property that belongs to the decedent under
Section 101.
 
(c)
As to separate property, the intestate share of the surviving spouse is as
follows:
 
(1)
The entire intestate estate if the decedent did not leave any surviving issue,
parent, brother, sister, or issue of a deceased brother or sister.
 
(2) One-half of the
intestate estate in the following cases:
 
(A)
Where the decedent leaves only one child or the issue of one deceased child.
 
(B)
Where the decedent leaves no issue, but leaves a parent or parents or their
issue or the issue of either of them.
 
(3) One-third of the
intestate estate in the following cases:
 
(A) Where the
decedent leaves more than one child.
 
(B)
Where the decedent leaves one child and the issue of one or more deceased
children.
 
(C)
Where the decedent leaves issue of two or more deceased children.
 
(Prob. Code, § 6401.)
 
“Except
as provided in Section 6402.5, the part of the intestate estate not passing to
the surviving spouse, under Section 6401, or the entire intestate estate if
there is no surviving spouse, passes as follows:
 
(a)
To the issue of the decedent, the issue taking equally if they are all of the
same degree of kinship to the decedent, but if of unequal degree those of more
remote degree take in the manner provided in Section 240.”
 
(Prob. Code, § 6402.)
 
            It
is not clear to the Court, based on Plaintiff’s briefing, what the relative
interests of Lopez and of Plaintiff’s children are to this action. Plaintiff
contends that Lopez has a 50 percent interest in this action, but does not
provide an explanation of why this is the result. If the interest in the
outcome of this action constitutes community property, it appears that the
interest would belong entirely to Lopez. If the interest is quasi-community
property, Lopez’s share would be 50 percent. If the interest is separate
property, Lopez’s interest would be one-third. (See generally Prob. Code, §
6401.)
 
            Based
on the Complaint, it appears that Plaintiff’s causes of action arose during
Plaintiff’s marriage to Lopez. The Court requests argument from Plaintiff on
whether this is true and, if so, what the community property characterization
of the action is. 
 
Request for Publication
 
Plaintiff requests authorization to serve Lopez by
publication in the Los Angeles Daily Journal once a week for four consecutive
weeks.
 
As discussed above, the facts in the record show that Lopez
may have an interest in this action. In fact, it is possible that Lopez is the
proper successor to the exclusion of Plaintiff’s children. Lopez is therefore a
necessary party in this action, because complete relief cannot be afforded
between the remaining parties without her participation. (Code Civ. Proc., §
389, subd. (a).)
 
Plaintiff’s counsel has filed a Doe amendment renaming Doe 1
as Rocio Lopez. (Motion, Ex. 5.) 
 
“Section 415.50, authorizing service by publication
specifies this method of service is only warranted when “‘the party to be
served cannot with reasonable diligence be served in another manner specified
in this article....’” (Kott v. Superior Court (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th
1126, 1137, quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 415.50, subd. (a).)
 
“The Judicial Council comment to this section is instructive
in defining the showing required before a trial court is justified in finding a
party has exercised reasonable diligence in attempting to locate the party to
be served. ‘The term “reasonable diligence” … denotes a thorough, systematic
investigation and inquiry conducted in good faith by the party or his agent or
attorney. A number of honest attempts to learn [the] defendant's whereabouts or
his address by [1] inquiry of relatives, friends, and acquaintances, or of [2] his
employer, and by [3] investigation of appropriate city and telephone
directories, [4] the voters’ register, and [5] the real and personal property
index in the assessor’s office, near the defendant’s last known location, are
generally sufficient. These are likely sources of information, and consequently
must be searched before resorting to service by publication.’ However, the
showing of diligence in a given case must rest on its own facts and no single
formula nor mode of search can be said to constitute due diligence in every
case.” ((Kott, supra, 45 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1137-1138 [internal
citations omitted; cleaned up].)
 
Plaintiff’s law firm contacted Leticia Magdaleno, a close
friend of Plaintiff, and confirmed that she had no information as to the
whereabouts of Lopez. (Lyon Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s firm contacted Adriana
Rodriguez, Elvira Hernandez (Plaintiff’s mother), and Leticia Magdaleno, a
coworker of Plaintiff, in attempts to find Lopez. (Koh Decl. ¶¶ 3, 4, 8, 11.)
Plaintiff’s firm mailed letters to four individuals with the names Rocio Lopez
who were believed to be likely candidates. (Koh Decl. ¶ 9.) Plaintiff’s firm
searched on TruthFinder for Lopez and found 97 results for “Rocio Lopez” in Los
Angeles, but determined that there were too many results to be helpful. (Koh
Decl. ¶ 12.) Plaintiff’s firm also conducted searches on Westlaw PeopleMap,
Google, Facebook, LinkedIn, and Instagram, but could not find Lopez. (Koh Decl.
¶ 7.)
 
The Court believes that some additional diligence may be
necessary. It is unclear whether Plaintiff’s firm searched the telephone
directory, voters’ register, or real and personal property index for Lopez. The
Court requests that Plaintiff’s counsel provide clarification on this issue.