 Case Number:  21STCV12127	    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  34  
SUBJECT:        Motion to Compel Oliver
Damavandi’s Further Responses to Employment Form Interrogatories
 
Moving Party: Jason
Aryeh
Resp. Party:    Oliver Damavandi
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to Compel Oliver
Damavandi’s Further Responses to Special Interrogatories
 
Moving Party: Jason
Aryeh
Resp. Party:    Oliver Damavandi
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to Compel Oliver
Damavandi’s Further Responses to Requests for Production and to Produce Documents
Re Employment Claims
 
Moving Party: Jason
Aryeh
Resp. Party:    Oliver Damavandi
 
SUBJECT:        Motion to Compel Oliver Damavandi’s
Further Responses to Employment Requests for Admission
 
Moving Party: Jason
Aryeh
Resp. Party:    Oliver Damavandi
 
 
The Further FROGs Motion is DENIED. 
 
        The Further SROGs Motion is
DENIED. 
 
The Further RPDs Motion is GRANTED. 
 
        The Further RFAs Motion is
GRANTED. 
 
        Oliver Damavandi shall
provide further responses to the RPDs and RFAs within 20 days of the issuance
of this Order. 
 
        The Requests for Monetary
Sanctions are DENIED. 
 
 
PRELIMINARY COMMENTS:
 
        This case was filed on March 30, 2021
and will go to trial in less than five months. 
The parties have filed over 600 pleadings in this case.  The moving party spent $23,727.48 in attorney's
fees on just the four motions at issue today. 
The Court assumes that the parties have collectively incurred hundreds
of thousands of dollars in attorney's fees to date on this matter.
 
        The Court questions whether such an
expenditure of time, effort and money is in any of the parties’ interests.
 
        
BACKGROUND:
 
On March 30,
2021, Oliver Damavandi filed his Complaint against Jason Aryeh, 1568 Blue Jay
Way LLC, 6097 West Winding Way LLC, and 5849 Murphy Way LLC on causes of action
arising from the Parties’ business transactions. 
 
On May 7,
2021, Jason Aryeh, 1568 Blue Jay Way LLC, 6097 West Winding Way LLC, and 5849
Murphy Way LLC (“the Aryeh Parties”) filed their Cross-Complaint (“the Aryeh
Cross-Complaint”) against Oliver Damavandi, Bar Design and Construction, Inc.,
Asher Joseph Alfasi, Archive Design Group, LLC, and Zoran Pevec.
 
On August 27,
2021, Oliver Damavandi amended his Complaint to substitute Doe 1 with Sarah
Emmi Tibstra, Doe 4 with Matthew George, Doe 5 with Cardinal-West Construction,
LLC, Doe 6 with Zachary Beer, and Doe 7 with Michael J. Tisdale Construction,
Inc.
 
On August 27,
2021, Oliver Damavandi filed his First Amended Complaint (FAC). Later that day,
Oliver Damavandi filed his Notice of Errata regarding the FAC. On August 31,
2021, Oliver Damavandi filed another Notice of Errata regarding the FAC. 
 
On October
21, 2021, Jason Aryeh filed his Answer to the FAC.
 
On October
22, 2021, 1568 Blue Jay Way LLC, 6097 West Winding Way LLC, and 5849 Murphy Way
LLC filed their Answer to the FAC.
 
On December
16, 2021, the Aryeh Parties filed their First Amended Cross-Complaint (“the
Aryeh FACC”), which included new parties and new causes of action.
 
On January 3,
2022, Sarah Emmi Tibstra filed her Answer to the FAC. 
 
On May 12,
2022, the Court sustained without leave to amend the Demurrers filed against
the FAC by: (1) Zachary Beer and Michael J. Tisdale Construction, Inc.; and (2)
Matthew George and Cardinal-West Construction, LLC. 
 
On June 6,
2023, the Court entered Judgment of Dismissal in favor of Defendants Zachary Beer,
Michael J. Tisdale Construction, Inc., Matthew George, and Cardinal-West
Construction, Inc. regarding the causes of action against them in Plaintiff’s
FAC. 
 
On July 5,
2023, the Aryeh Parties filed their Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“the Aryeh
SACC”). 
 
On August 4,
2023, Building The New Century filed its Answer to the Aryeh SACC.  
 
On August 4,
2023, Bar Design and Construction, Inc., Asher Joseph Alfasi, and Shana
Barghouti filed their Answer to the Aryeh SACC. 
 
On August 4,
2023, Dan Son Air, Inc. filed its Answer to the Aryeh SACC. 
 
On August 21,
2023, Oliver Damavandi filed his Answer to the Aryeh SACC. 
 
On August 24,
2023, Colony Insurance Company filed its Answer in Intervention on Behalf of CA
Premier AV Inc.
 
On September
1, 2023, Ram-Z Construction, Inc. filed its Answer to the Aryeh SACC. 
 
On
September 8, 2023, Sun Valley Steel Fabricators, Inc. filed its Answer to the
Aryeh SACC. 
 
On September
11, 2023, by request of the Aryeh Parties, the Clerk’s Office entered default
on EVG Roofing Systems, Inc.
 
On September
14, 2023, by request of the Aryeh Parties, the Clerk’s Office entered default
on IC Electric, Inc. 
 
On September
14, 2023, Carlos Antonio Rodriguez filed its Answer to the Aryeh SACC. 
 
On October 5,
2023, by request of the Aryeh Parties, the Clerk’s Office entered default on
NoHo Steel, LLC. 
 
        On November 29, 2023,
Archive Design Group, LLC and Zoran Pevec filed their Answer to the Aryeh SACC.

 
        On February 5, 2024, Jason
Aryeh filed: (1) Motion to Compel Oliver Damavandi’s Further Responses to
Employment Form Interrogatories (“Further FROGs Motion”); (2) Motion to Compel
Oliver Damavandi’s Further Responses to Special Interrogatories (“Further SROGs
Motion”); (3) Motion to Compel Oliver Damavandi’s Further Responses to Requests
for Production and to Produce Documents Re Employment Claims (“Further RPD’s
Motion”); and (4) Motion to Compel Oliver Damavandi’s Further Responses to
Employment Requests for Admission (“Further RFAs Motion”). In support of each
of these discovery motions, Jason Aryeh concurrently filed a Separate Statement
and a Declaration of Joshua D. Schein. 
 
        On February 22, 2024, Oliver
Damavandi filed an Opposition to each of the discovery motions. In support of
each of these opposition, Oliver Damavandi concurrently filed a Response to
Separate Statement and a Declaration of Arash Beral. Oliver Damavandi also
filed a separate Proof of Service. 
 
        On February 27, 2024, the
Court granted summary judgment in favor of 1568 Blue Jay Way, LLC and against
NoHo Steel, Inc. 
 
        On February 27, 2024, the
Court entered its Order Determining Good Faith of Settlement between Archive
Design Group, LLC; Zoran Pevec; Jason Aryeh; 1568 Blue Jay Way, LLC; and 5849
Murphy Way, LLC. 
 
        On February 28, 2024, Jason
Aryeh filed a Reply in support of each of the discovery motions. In support of
each of these replies, Jason Aryeh concurrently filed a Declaration of Joshua
D. Schein. He also filed an Amended Proof of Service. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
        The Court concurrently
considers the four discovery motions. 
 
I.         
Legal Standard
 
A.         
Legal Standard for Further Responses to
Interrogatories and/or Requests for Production of Documents
 
On receipt of a response
to form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and/or demand requests, the
propounding and/or demanding party “may move for an order compelling further
response” if: (1) the response is evasive or incomplete; (2) the representation
of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) the
objection is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd.
(a), 2031.310, subd. (a).)
 
The court shall impose
monetary sanctions against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel further interrogatories and/or a motion to
compel further production of documents, unless the Court finds that the one
subject to sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.300, subd. (d), 2031.310, subd. (h).)
 
B.         
Legal Standard for Further Responses to Requests for
Admission
 
¿“On
receipt of a response to requests for admissions, the party requesting
admissions may move for an order compelling a further response if that party
deems that either or both of the following apply: (1)¿An answer to a particular
request is evasive or incomplete[;] (2)¿An objection to a particular
request is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd.
(a).)
 
“The court shall
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel further response, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290, subd.
(d).)
 
II.       Discussion
 
A.      The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Jason Aryeh seeks further responses to form
interrogatories (“FROGs”), special interrogatories (“SROGs”), requests for
production of documents (“RPDs”), and requests for admission (“RFAs”) that he
propounded on Oliver Damavandi. (Further FROGs Motion, p. 10:20–21; Further
SROGs Motion, p. 13:27–28; Further RPDs Motion, p. 13:26–27; Further RFAs
Motion, p. 18–19.)
 
Oliver Damavandi opposes the motions,
arguing: (1) that Jason Aryeh did not properly exhaust the meet and confer
process; (2) that Jason Aryeh did not follow the Court’s preference for an
informal discovery conference for unresolved issues; (3) that Oliver Damavandi
has adequately responded to the discovery requests; and (4) that Oliver Damavandi
intends to provide further responses to certain discovery requests. (Opposition
to Further FROGs Motion, pp. 5:2, 7:1, 7:16–17, 8:18; Opposition to Further
SROGs Motion, pp. 6:24, 8:20, 9:7–8, 12:21; Opposition to Further RPDs Motion,
pp. 4:2, 6:1, 6:16–17, 9:9; Opposition to Further RFAs Motion, pp. 5:2, 6:25,
7:14.)
 
        In his Reply, Jason Aryeh
argues: (1) that the meet and confer was sufficient; (2) that the discovery is
relevant; (3) that the supplemental responses are overdue; and (4) that the
Oppositions do not commit to supplemental responses. (Reply re: Further FROGs
Motion, pp. 4:2, 6:4, 7:2; Reply re: Further SROGs Motion, pp. 4:10, 6:4, 9:2;
Reply re: Further RPDs Motion, pp. 4:10, 6:4, 8:13.)
 
B.      Sufficiency
of the Meet and Confer
 
1.      Legal
Standard
 
Motions for further responses to FROGs,
SROGs, RPDs, and/or RFAs “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration
under Section 2016.040. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (b)(1); 2031.310,
subd. (b)(2); 2033.290, subd. (b)(1).)
 
“A meet and
confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)
 
2.      Discussion

 
Here, the evidence presented to the Court
indicates that a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of
these issues occurred. (See, for example, Decl. Schein re: Further RPDs Motion,
Exhs. 17–20.)
 
 
C.      Informal
Discovery Conference
 
Department 34 requires informal discovery
conferences prior to hearing discovery motions in Lemon Law cases. (Standing
Order for Dep’t 34, ¶ VIII.A.) The Court may also require an informal discovery
conference when there are numerous or particularly complicated motions to
compel further discovery. (Standing Order for Dep’t 34, ¶ VII.B.) 
 
This is neither a Lemon Law case nor a
situation with numerous or particularly complex motions to compel further
discovery. While informal discovery conferences are encouraged for all other
cases prior to the filing of a motion to compel, such a conference was not
mandatory in this case. (Standing Order for Dep’t 34, ¶ V.D.)
 
D.      Sufficiency
of the Discovery Requests
 
The question before the Court is whether the
initial responses to the various discovery requests were evasive or incomplete;
the representations of inability to comply were inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive; and/or the objections were without merit or too general. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (a); 2031.310, subd. (a); 2033.290, subd. (a).)
 
1.      The
Initial Responses to the FROGs and SROGs
 
        As to the FROGs and SROGs,
the initial responses appear to be sufficient responses to the questions asked.
(See Separate Statement re: Further FROGs Motion; see also Separate Statement
re: Further SROGs Motion.) 
 
For certain interrogatories, the follow up
questions that Jason Aryeh asked request information that is beyond the scope
of the initial questions; they are not further responses to the initial
questions themselves. (Ibid.) 
 
        Consider, for example, FROG
No. 210.3:
 
“Will you lose income, benefits, or earning
capacity in the future as a result of any ADVERSE EMPLOYMENT ACTION? If so,
state the total amount of income, benefits, or earning capacity you expect to
lose, and how the amount was calculated.” 
 
(Separate Statement re: Further FROGs Motion, p. 5:9–12.)
 
        Oliver Damavandi responded
as follows:
 
“Damavandi objects to this Interrogatory on
the ground that it calls for premature discovery of expert witness opinion.
Subject to and without waiving the foregoing objection, Damavandi responds as
follows: 
 
“Yes. If not for Defendant’s breaches of
agreements and his fiduciary duties, as well as his misrepresentations,
Damavandi would have invested the promised profits amounting to approximately
$10 million in future development projects, which would have provided him with
a return estimated to be approximately 30% of the $10 million that he would
have invested, if he had simply invested in stabilized coupon deals, amounting
to approximately $3 million in future lost income. Other projects and
opportunities would have amounted to a lost income figure that greatly exceeds
$3 million. These are conservative estimates that does not take into account
the fluctuating real estate market. 
 
“The exact value of Damavandi’s total lost
income will be calculated at or near the time of trial in this matter.
Discovery and investigation are ongoing. Damavandi reserves the right to
supplement this response.”
 
(Separate Statement re: Further FROGs Motion, pp. 5:13–6:2.)
 
        Jason Aryeh’s request for a
further response is the following:
 
“This interrogatory requires Damavandi to
state with specificity the ‘income, benefits, or earning capacity’ he
has lost to date, and that he will lose in the future. Damavandi fails to
provide any specificity, and instead provides an improper estimate of
non-employment damages related to his claim for breach of contract of the
membership agreements. This is a different claim with different damages, and
Damavandi cannot use this same claim as a basis for specific wage and hour
allegations. 
 
“If Damavandi is claiming lost wages,
benefits, or future lost wages and benefits, he must specifically identify
them. Otherwise, he must drop his specious allegations.”
 
(Separate Statement re: Further FROGs Motion, p. 6:3–12, underline in
original.)
 
        First, Oliver Damavandi
sufficiently answered all the questions asked. He was initially asked: “Will
you lose income, benefits, or earning capacity in the future as a result of any
ADVERSE EMPLOYMENT ACTION?” Ignoring the boilerplate (and unnecessary) objections,
he answered: “Yes.” He was then asked the following compound question: “If so,
state the total amount of income, benefits, or earning capacity you expect to
lose, and how the amount was calculated.” He responded by estimating
“approximately $3 million in future lose income” and described his calculation
as being “approximately 30% of the $10 million that he would have invested[.]” His
answers are sufficient. 
 
        Second, FROG 210.3 did not
explicitly ask Oliver Damavandi to state anything “with specificity.” If
Jason Aryeh had intended for Oliver Damavandi to specifically list income,
benefits, or earning capacity lost, then that should have been requested. But
it was not. Jason Aryeh only asked a “yes/no” question, followed by a question
about an aggregate figure and a question about the manner of calculation. No
“specificity” was called for in these questions.
 
        Finally, Jason Aryeh claims
that Oliver Damavandi “provides an improper estimate of non-employment damages
related to his claim for breach of contract”, which is allegedly inappropriate
because he cannot “use this same claim as a basis for specific wage and hour
allegations.” The Court does not find that this response is evasive,
incomplete, or inadequate. Not all employees are paid hourly wages. More
importantly, if Oliver Damavandi does not claim certain types of harm (e.g.,
harm to income from lack of hourly wages), then he would presumably have
additional difficulty with credibly demonstrating such harms at trial. 
 
        For other further responses
requested, the Court agrees with Oliver Damavandi’s objections that the
questions are overbroad. 
 
        Consider, for example, SROG
No. 116:
 
“IDENTIFY every property YOU have worked on
for compensation.” (Separate Statement re: Further SROGs Motion, p. 7:12–13.)
 
        Jason Aryeh argues that
“[i]f Damavandi has never worked on a property for compensation, Jason is
entitled to know.” (Separate Statement re: Further SROGs Motion, p. 8:20.)
Jason Aryeh also argues that this question “goes to Damavandi’s qualifications,
his self-assigned rate for the work he claims he performed, . . . etc.” (Id.
at p. 8:16–19.)
 
Yet there are many narrower ways to obtain
the information sought. For example, the SROG could have requested information
up to two years prior to the incident at issue, or the SROG could have
requested information on at least one prior property. But to request
identification of all past properties (perhaps going back decades) is overbroad.

 
In summary, if Jason Aryeh wants to ask
follow-up questions, there is still time to do so. But the interrogatories at
issue have been asked and answered or properly objected to. 
 
        The Court DENIES the Further
FROGs Motion. 
 
        The Court DENIES the Further
SROGs Motion. 
 
2.      The
Initial Responses to the RPDs and RFAs
 
Unlike his responses to the interrogatories,
Oliver Damavandi’s responses to the RPDs and the RFAs are boilerplate and
without merit. Nearly all of the responses to the RPDs proffer the same boilerplate
objections; they do not indicate that any documents have been provided.  Nearly all of the responses to the RFAs proffer
the same boilerplate objections; they do not admit, deny, or claim a lack of
sufficient information or knowledge. 
 
“The party to
whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling has been directed
shall respond separately to each item or category of item by any of the
following:
 
“(1) A statement that the party will comply with the
particular demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling by the date set
for the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling pursuant to paragraph (2) of
subdivision (c) of Section 2031.030 and any related activities.
 
“(2) A representation that the party lacks the
ability to comply with the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling
of a particular item or category of item.
 
“(3) An objection to the particular demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.210, subd. (a).)
 
        “Each response [to a request for admissions] shall answer the
substance of the requested admission, or set forth an objection to the
particular request.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.210, subd. (b).)
 
“Each answer in a
response to requests for admission shall be as complete and straightforward as the
information reasonably available to the responding party permits.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.220, subd. (a).)
 
“Each answer shall:
 
“(1) Admit so much of the matter involved in the request
as is true, either as expressed in the request itself or as reasonably and
clearly qualified by the responding party.
 
“(2) Deny so much of the matter involved in the
request as is untrue.
 
“(3) Specify so much of the matter involved in the
request as to the truth of which the responding party lacks sufficient
information or knowledge.”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.220, subd. (b).)
 
“If a responding
party gives lack of information or knowledge as a reason for a failure to admit
all or part of a request for admission, that party shall state in the answer
that a reasonable inquiry concerning the matter in the particular request has
been made, and that the information known or readily obtainable is insufficient
to enable that party to admit the matter.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.220, subd.
(c).)
 
If there are documents to be provided in
response to the RPDs, they must be provided; the RFAs must be answered.  
 
        The Court GRANTS the Further
RPDs Motion. 
 
        The Court GRANTS the Further
RFAs Motion. 
 
        Oliver Damavandi shall
provide further responses to the RPDs and RFAs within 20 days of the issuance
of this Order. 
 
E.      Sanctions
 
Jason Aryeh requests monetary sanctions for
each of these discovery motions. (Further FROGs Motion, p. 9; Further SROGs Motion,
p. 13; Further RPDs Motion, p. 13; Further RFAs Motion, p. 8.)
        Oliver
Damavandi does not request monetary sanctions, even though he notes he could
have requested them. (Opposition to Further FROGs Motion, p. 10:11–14;
Opposition to Further SROGs Motion, p. 14:13–16; Opposition to Further RPDs
Motion, p. 1:21–24; Opposition to Further RFAs Motion, p. 9:7–10.)
 
        The Court has granted two of
the discovery motions and denied the other two. Further, in his filings, Oliver
Damavandi has claimed that he will be providing further responses to the
discovery requests. 
 
        The Court DENIES all of the
Requests for Monetary Sanctions. 
 
 
III.     Conclusion
 
The Further FROGs Motion is DENIED. 
 
        The Further SROGs Motion is
DENIED. 
 
The Further RPDs Motion is GRANTED. 
 
        The Further RFAs Motion is
GRANTED. 
 
        Oliver Damavandi shall
provide further responses to the RPDs and RFAs within 20 days of the issuance
of this Order. 
 
        The Requests for Monetary
Sanctions are DENIED. 
 
 
 