 Case Number:  22STCV13023    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  39 Kenneth
Oleesky v. Lithia Motors, Inc.
Case
No. 22STCV13023
Demurrer
to Answer
            
            Plaintiff
Kenneth Oleesky (“Plaintiff”) filed this case against Lithia Motors, Inc.
(“Lithia”) and Van Nuys-L, Inc. (“Van Nuys-L”) (collectively, “Defendants”)
asserting seven causes of action under the Fair Employment and Housing Act
(“FEHA”) and one cause of action for failure to pay timely wages upon
discharge, per Labor Code section 201(a). 
Defendants filed an answer raising 52 affirmative defenses, to which
Plaintiff demurs.  
 
A plaintiff may
demur to an answer if: “(a) The answer does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a defense.  [¶]  (b) The answer is uncertain. As used in this
subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible.  [¶] 
(c) Where the answer pleads a contract, it cannot be ascertained from
the answer whether the contract is written or oral.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.20.)  In the answer to the complaint, a defendant
must allege facts to support any matter the defendant will bear the burden to
prove at trial.  (Harris v. City of
Santa Monica (2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 240.) 
A defendant need not allege facts to support any matter the plaintiff
will bear the burden of proof at trial. 
(Ibid.)
 
The Court
sustains the demurrer with respect to the following affirmative defenses:
 
No. 4 – The
Court sustains the demurrer with respect to the affirmative defense that
Plaintiff failed to use Defendants’ policies or preventive/corrective
opportunities.
 
No. 6 – The
Court sustains the demurrer to the extent Defendants intend to argue that
third-parties were responsible for his damages. 
The Court overrules the demurrer to the extent Defendants intend to
argue that Plaintiff was responsible for his damages.
 
            No.
15 – The Court sustains the demurrer with respect to the affirmative defense
that Plaintiff waived any claim he may have against Defendants.
 
            No.
16 – The Court sustains the demurrer with respect to the affirmative defense
that Plaintiff’s claims are barred by the doctrine of estoppel because
Defendants relied on Plaintiff’s conduct to their prejudice.
 
            No.
17 – The Court sustains the demurrer with respect to the affirmative defense
that Plaintiff’s claims are barred by the doctrine of unclean hands based on
“actions taken and misrepresentations made by Plaintiff.”  
 
            No.
18 – The Court sustains the demurrer with respect to the affirmative defense
that Plaintiff consented to the conduct about which he now complains.  
 
            No.
25 – The Court sustains the demurrer with respect to the affirmative defense
that Plaintiff’s causes of action are barred by Plaintiff’s willful misconduct.
 
            No.
29 – The Court sustains the demurrer with respect to the affirmative defense
that Defendants’ conduct was privileged.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based
upon the foregoing, Plaintiff’s demurrer to Defendants’ answer is sustained in
part and overruled in part.  Defendants
may file an amended answer within thirty (30) days.  Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide notice and
file proof of such with the Court.  
 