  Case Number:  21STCV11027    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  39 Luis Venegas, et
al. v. Browning-Ferris Industries of California, Inc., et al.
Case No.
21STCV11027 
 
Order #1 of 3
Motion to Reopen
Discovery
 
Plaintiffs filed this action
against Browning-Ferris Industries of California, Inc. (“BFI”) and Republic
Services, Inc. (“Republic”), as well as Peter Pouwels, asserting the following
causes of action: (1) Sexual harassment under the Fair Employment and Housing
Act, Government Code sections 12900, et seq. (“FEHA”), (2) Sexual
assault/battery, (3) Negligent hiring, supervision, and retention, (4)
Discrimination based upon race and/or national origin, (5) Failure to prevent
harassment/discrimination, (6) Retaliation, (7) Violation of Labor Code section
1102.5, (8) Violation of Labor Code sections 6310 and 6311, and (9) Wrongful
termination in violation of public policy. 
Previously, the Court ordered that the fact discovery deadline shall be
based on the former trial date of April 4, 2023.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated December 2,
2022.)  The Court ordered that the expert
discovery deadline shall be based on the former trial date of August 1, 2023.  (See ibid.) 
Now, Plaintiff’s counsel moves to reopen fact discovery to take
depositions from Marcial Viveros and Moises Romero.  Defendants oppose the motion.  
 
In determining whether to re-open
discovery, the Court must consider the necessity of and reasons for the
additional discovery, the diligence or lack thereof by the party seeking to
reopen discovery in attempting to complete discovery prior to the cutoff,
whether permitting the discovery will prevent the case from going forward on
the trial date or will otherwise prejudice any party, and any past continuances
of the trial date.  (See Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2024.050, subd. (b).)  In the instant
case, Plaintiff’s counsel noticed these depositions on June 14, 2023.  Plaintiff’s counsel does not address when he
learned of the relevance of these witnesses and why he could not take the
depositions before Monday, March 6, 2023. 
This failure is troubling because Plaintiffs identified Marcial Viveros
and Moises Romero as potential witnesses in their discovery responses, which
were served on August 30, 2021.  (See
Declaration of Miko Sargizian, Exh. D.)
 
Based upon the foregoing,
Plaintiff’s motion to reopen discovery is denied.  Plaintiff’s counsel shall provide notice and
file proof of such with the Court.
 
Order #2 of 3
Motion to
Bifurcate
 
            Plaintiffs
filed this action against Browning-Ferris Industries of California, Inc.
(“BFI”) and Republic Services, Inc. (“Republic”), as well as Peter Pouwels,
asserting the following causes of action: (1) Sexual harassment under the Fair
Employment and Housing Act, Government Code sections 12900, et seq. (“FEHA”),
(2) Sexual assault/battery, (3) Negligent hiring, supervision, and retention,
(4) Discrimination based upon race and/or national origin, (5) Failure to
prevent harassment/discrimination, (6) Retaliation, (7) Violation of Labor Code
section 1102.5, (8) Violation of Labor Code sections 6310 and 6311, and (9)
Wrongful termination in violation of public policy.  Previously, the Court ordered that the fact
discovery deadline shall be based on the former trial date of April 4,
2023.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated
December 2, 2022.)  Defendants move to
bifurcate this case to order separate trials for each plaintiff.  
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 598, “The court may, when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of
justice, or the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be
promoted thereby . . . make an order . . . that the trial of any issue or any
part thereof shall precede the trial of any other issue or any part thereof in
the case[.]”  (Code Civ. Proc.,  §
598.)  Judicial economy would not be served
by having ten separate trials concerning sexual harassment by the same
supervisor.  Defendants argue that there
is misjoinder by all ten plaintiffs filing a single action.  That is not the case when the plaintiffs all
allege that they were sexually harassed by the same supervisor.  Defendants also argue that a joint trial
would involve irrelevant and prejudicial “me, too” evidence.  This is not the case when the “me, too”
evidence involves the same supervisor. 
Finally, Defendants’ counsel argues that a joint trial would involve at
least 50 witnesses and over 200 hours of testimony, rendering the trial
unmanageable.  If that is the case, the
Court will transfer this case to a long cause courtroom at the appropriate time.

 
The Court has considered Defendants’
remaining arguments and finds none to be persuasive.  Therefore, Defendants’ motion to bifurcate the
trial is denied.  Plaintiff’s counsel
shall provide notice and file proof of such with the Court.  
 
Order #3 of 3
Motion for Leave to
File First Amended Complaint
Trial Setting
Conference
 
            Plaintiff
filed a motion for leave to amend to file a first amended complaint.  This motion has been set for hearing on
January 9, 2024.  The Court advances that
hearing to October 23, 2023, at 8:30 a.m. 
The Court continues the trial setting conference to October 23, 2023, at
8:30 a.m.  Plaintiff’s counsel shall
provide notice and file proof of such with the Court.  
            
 