 Case Number:  24LBCV01451    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Jose Luis Farfan filed
this action against Defendants, Duluth
Services, Inc. and TABC, Inc. for FEHA discrimination and related claims.  
 
2.     Motion
to Compel Arbitration
a.    
Parties’ Positions
Duluth moves to compel Plaintiff to
submit this dispute to binding arbitration. 
TABC joins the motion.  Defendants
contend Plaintiff agreed, upon accepting employment with Defendants, to submit
all claims to binding arbitration.  They
contend the FAA governs the parties’ agreement, and all requirements to submit
the claims to arbitration are satisfied. 
They seek an order staying this action pending the outcome of binding
arbitration.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.  Notably, opposition was due on or before
1/03/25, but was not filed until 1/06/25. 
The Court has considered the opposition, but advises Plaintiff that it
may not do so in the future.  Plaintiff argues
the motion should be denied because (a) he never agreed to arbitrate his claims
with Moving Defendants, (b) the agreement is unconscionable, and (c) Defendants
waived their right to move to compel arbitration/the agreement is contrary to
public policy.  
 
b.     General
Law Governing Motions to Compel Arbitration
Pursuant to CCP §1281, “A written
agreement to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy
thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such
grounds as exist for the revocation of any contract.”  Pursuant to §1281.2, ”[O]n petition of a
party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement
to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate
the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy
exists, unless it determines that: 
(a) The right to compel arbitration
has been waived by the petitioner; or 
(b) Grounds exist for the
revocation of the agreement.  
(c) A party to the arbitration is
also a party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third party
. . ..  This subdivision shall not be
applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes as to the professional
negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to Section 1295.”
 
c.     Electronic
Agreements
There is a three-step process used
to determine whether a defendant has adequately established the plaintiff’s
electronic signature on an employment agreement.  Fabian v. Renovate America, Inc. (2019) 42
Cal.App.5th 1062; Espejo v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016)
246 Cal.App.4th 1047; Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232
Cal.App.4th 836
 
STEP 1 – Defendant meets its
initial burden to show an agreement to arbitrate by attaching a copy of the
contract to its petition, which purportedly bears the plaintiff's electronic
initials and signature. Espejo v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group
(2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1057-1058 ["as a preliminary matter the
[trial] court is only required to make a finding of the agreement's existence,
not an evidentiary determination of its validity.”]). To meet its burden, the
moving party need only attach a copy of the agreement to the petition and
incorporate it by reference. (Id. at 1058; Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330
[“The provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must be physically or
electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by reference."]).

 
STEP 2 – Plaintiff shifts the
burden by declaring that she/he did not sign the contract
 

STEP 3 – Defendant then has the
burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that the electronic
signature was authentic. Defendant’s burden of authenticating an electronic
signature is not great. (Ruiz at 844) The party seeking authentication may
carry its burden in any manner, including by presenting evidence of the
contents of the contract in question and the circumstances surrounding the
contract's execution. (ibid).   
 
Defendant can attribute the
signature to Plaintiff by showing the "efficacy of any security procedure
applied to determine the person to which the electronic record or electronic
signature was attributable.” (Civ. Code, § 1633.9, (a)). The effect of an
electronic signature attributed to a person "is determined from the
context and surrounding circumstances at the time of its creation, execution,
or adoption, including the parties' agreement, if any, and otherwise as
provided by law." (Civ. Code, § 1633.9, (b)). 
 
A party can establish that the
electronic signature was the act of Plaintiff “by presenting evidence that a
unique login and password known only to that person was required to affix the
electronic signature, along with evidence detailing the procedures the person
had to follow to electronically sign the document and the accompanying security
precautions.” (Bannister v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541,
545).
 
In Espejo v. Southern Cal.
Permanente Med. Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1053-54, the
employer’s systems consultant submitted a declaration detailing how the
username and password were generated, how the system worked, and how the
employer was able to conclude that the employee had signed the subject
arbitration agreement.  The Court of
Appeals found the evidence sufficient to establish the employee had signed the
agreement.  
 
In this case, Defendant provided
evidence with its moving papers sufficient to meet the requirements above.  Specifically, Defendant supported its motion
with the Declaration of Lindsey Collum, who works with new hire onboarding, and
who explains the process pursuant to which she obtained Plaintiff’s agreement
to arbitrate all claims.  Plaintiff does
not contest the showing concerning electronic signature in his opposition
papers.  
 
d.     Does
Agreement Cover Moving Defendants?
Plaintiff contends the subject
agreement was between him and his employer, Aerotek, Inc., which is not a named
party to the action.  He contends the
agreement does not cover his claims against Defendants, who are not parties to
the agreement.  
 
Plaintiff, in his declaration in
opposition to the motion, states, in pertinent part:
3. I was employed by Duluth
Services, INC. (“Defendant”), as a press operator from in or around November
2021 to July 12 2022.  
4. At the time I signed the
document in question, I was not told of any connection or relationship between
Aerotek, Inc., Duluth Services, Inc. and TABC, INC..  
 
Plaintiff also supports his
contention with his attorney’s declaration. 
Plaintiff’s attorney declares that, in correspondence with Defense
Counsel, Defense Counsel provided him a copy of the applicable arbitration agreement,
which is with Aerotek.  Indeed,
Plaintiff’s attorney attaches the correspondence and agreement to his
declaration, and the agreement is between Plaintiff and Aerotek.  It does appear that Defense Counsel provided
the wrong agreement in that correspondence. 

 
Plaintiff fails, however, to
address the agreement that was attached to the moving papers, which clearly is
between Plaintiff and Duluth, not between Plaintiff and Aerotek.  Exhibit 4 to the moving papers is an agreement
between Plaintiff and Defendant, Duluth Services, Inc.  The agreement is the one discussed above (in
connection with the portion of this ruling detailing how the agreement was
obtained), and it is signed by both Plaintiff and Duluth.  
 
Notably, the agreement expressly
applies to any claims Plaintiff may make against Duluth’s “clients or
customers,” which can only be reasonably construed to mean the employers at
which Duluth places employees.  This
would include TABC.  The Court therefore finds
Plaintiff signed an agreement with Duluth, and it covers his claims against
both Duluth and TABC.
 
e.     Unconscionability

Plaintiff next argues the agreement
should not be enforced because it is unconscionable.  
 
i.             
Law Governing Unconscionability
A contract will be found to be
unconscionable where: (1) it is adhesive, in that all or part of the contract
falls outside the reasonable expectations of the weaker party; and (2)
equitably, the terms unreasonably favor the other party.  (Stirlen v. Supercuts (1997) 51 Cal.App.4th
1519, 1524.)  Unconscionability has both
a “procedural” and a “substantive” element. 

 
The procedural element focuses on
two factors: oppression and surprise. 
“Oppression” arises from an inequality of bargaining power which results
in no real negotiation and an absence of meaningful choice. “Surprise” involves
the extent to which the supposedly agreed upon terms of the bargain are hidden
in the prolix printed form drafted by the party seeking to enforce the disputed
terms.  A contractual term is
substantively suspect if it reallocates the risks of the bargain in an
objectively unreasonable or unexpected manner. 
Procedural unconscionability has to do with matters relating to freedom
of assent.  
 
Substantive unconscionability
involves the imposition of harsh or oppressive terms on one who has assented
freely to them.  The prevailing view is
that these two elements must both be present in order for a court to exercise
its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of
unconscionability.  (Id., at 1532-1533.)  In Stirlen, the court found that an
arbitration provision was unconscionable in that included a forced waiver of
punitive damages by the plaintiff employee, in violation of Civil Code §1668,
and accorded the defendant employer greater rights in pursuing a court action
for injunctive or equitable relief.  
 
ii.            
Procedural Unconscionability
Plaintiff contends the contract was
presented to him on a take it or leave it basis, and it is therefore
procedurally unconscionable.  These types
of contracts are referred to as contracts of adhesion.  Pursuant to Ramirez v. Charter
Communications, Inc. (2024) 16 Cal.5th 478, contracts of adhesion
are typically found to be procedurally unconscionable under California law.
 
iii.           
Substantive Unconscionability  
As noted above, even if a contract
is procedurally unconscionable, it will still be enforced unless it is also
substantively unconscionable.  Plaintiff
does not meaningfully articulate his argument regarding substantive
unconscionability in his opposition papers. 
He states only that the agreement imposes limitations that undermine the
rights of employees to pursue work-related claims, akin to those identified in
Little v. Auto Stiegler, Inc. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1064.  
 
Pursuant to Sanchez v. Valencia
Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, the burden to establish
unconscionability is on the party asserting the defense.  Because Plaintiff did not state which terms
of the contract are substantively unconscionable or how they are similar to
those in Little, Plaintiff failed to meet the burden.
 
Plaintiff also argues he was not
informed of the legal implications of the agreement, including that he was
waiving his right to a jury trial and foregoing his ability to be heard in a
public forum, at the time he signed the agreement.  The agreement, on its face, so states.  Plaintiff does not cite any authority for the
position that an employer must sit down and explain the terms of the contract
to an employee if the terms are clear on their face.  This argument is therefore also rejected.
 
f.      Waiver
Plaintiff states in his
introduction that he also argues Defendants have waived their right to
arbitrate.  He does not further discuss
this argument in the body of his points and authorities, and therefore fails to
show there has been a waiver.  
 
Instead, he briefly argues there
are public policy reasons not to enforce the agreement, relying on Gentry v.
Superior Court (2007) 42 Cal.4th 443 to support his position.  Gentry is inapposite for two reasons.  First, it dealt with class arbitration
waivers in the employment context. 
Second, it has been abrogated by OTO, LLC v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th
111.  
 
Plaintiff failed to show there is
any public policy reason to decline to enforce the parties’ arbitration
agreement.  
 
g.     Conclusion
Defendant met its moving burden to
show there is a binding arbitration agreement, signed by Plaintiff, that
requires Plaintiff to submit his claims to arbitration.  Plaintiff failed to establish any grounds for
refusal to enforce the agreement.  
 
Per CCP §1281.2, the motion to
compel arbitration is granted.  
 
The litigation against Defendants
is stayed pending the outcome of arbitration. 
CCP §1281.4.
 
3.     Joinder
As noted above, the parties’
agreement expressly applies to clients and customers of Duluth, and the moving
papers establish that TABC is such an entity. 
Plaintiff does not make any meaningful argument to the contrary.  The joinder is therefore also granted.
 
4.     Case
Management Conference
The parties are reminded that there
is a CMC on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the motion to compel
arbitration.  The Court will discuss a
post-arbitration status conference date with the parties at the CMC.  
 
The Court asks Counsel to make
arrangements to appear remotely at the CMC and hearing on the motion. 
 