  Case Number:  22LBCV0731    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  S27 1.     Complaint
Plaintiffs, James and Cynthia Setka
filed this action against Defendants, Ford Motor Company and Southbay Ford,
Inc. for damages under the Song-Beverly Act and for negligent repairs.  
 
2.     Motion
for Attorneys’ Fees
a.    
Parties’ Positions
Plaintiffs seek to recover
attorneys’ fees and costs incurred in this litigation in the total amount of $128,902.62,
which includes a 1.35 multiplier. 
Plaintiffs contend they are entitled to an award of fees and costs per
Civil Code §1794(d).  
 
Defendant, in opposition to the
motion, argues Plaintiffs’ attorneys’ hourly rates are inflated, the request
includes unreasonable and unnecessary tasks, there is no need for a lodestar
enhancement, and costs should not be awarded. 
  
 
Plaintiffs, in reply, contend Defendant
is referencing the rates of other lemon law lawyers who are not Plaintiffs’
attorney in this case, all fees are justified, and Defendant has not met its
burden to show the rates should be reduced. 
Plaintiffs contend they were not required to file a memorandum of
costs.  
 
b.    
Hourly Rate  
Plaintiffs support their motion
with the declaration of their attorneys, Payam Shahian and Angel M. Baker.  Counsel concedes the action was contingency,
as are all actions taken by their office. 
Shahian declares the attorneys working on the case bill their time at
rates between $395/hour and $595/hour. 
Counsel supports the rates with the Laffey Matrix, which is a summary of
rates charged by contingency fee attorneys. 

 
Defendant contends the rates are
excessive and should not be more than $350/hour for partners and $275/hour for
non-partners.  Both parties cite other
trial court decisions in this regard. 
There is no known appellate authority in this regard, and of course the
decision of an appropriate hourly rate is left to the sound discretion of the
trial court.  
 
The Court finds the rates are
extremely high, especially because this was a garden variety lemon law
case.  The Court is reducing the rates to
a blended rate of $400/hour.
 
c.    
“Canned”
Work 
The majority of Defendant’s argument is that Plaintiff is billing an
excessive number of hours for what is essentially “canned” work – work that is
repeated in connection with every lemon law case litigated.  The Court tends to agree.  The Court has many of these cases before it,
and is aware that the work done in the cases is redundant and should not be
billed anew in every case.  The Court is
inclined to reduce the billing by 1/3 in light of its finding that the billing
is padded and redundant with other cases. 

 
d.    
Lodestar
The Court agrees with Defendant and finds a multiplier is not appropriate
in this case.  Pursuant to Ketchem v.
Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 1139, the Court should only award a
multiplier based on exceptional representation if it finds the quality of
representation far exceeds the quality of representation that would have been
provided by an attorney of comparable skill and experience billing at the
hourly rate used in the lodestar calculation. 
The Court noted that, otherwise, the fee award would result in unfair
double counting and would be unreasonable. 
The Court finds an hourly rate of $400/hour is sufficient to compensate
for the work done.
 
e.    
Conclusion
The total hours billed in this case
was 179.  At the blended rate of
$400/hour, that would be a fee of $71,600. 
When reduced by 1/3, the total fee awarded becomes $47,972.  
 
f.      Costs
The Court notes that the motion
also seeks recovery of costs and expenses. 
Defendant contends the request is improper because Plaintiffs failed to
file a memorandum of costs.  Plaintiffs,
in reply, contend a memorandum was not necessary because they are seeking costs
and expenses per CCP §1794(d), rather than costs per CCP §1033.5.  
 
Plaintiffs cite nothing for the
position that, when costs and expenses are sought under §1794(d), a motion is
the proper mechanism to recover the costs and expenses and a memorandum of
costs is not.  
 
The Court has researched the issue,
and finds a memorandum of costs was required. 
A plaintiff in a lemon law case seeking costs and expenses under
California Civil Code Section 1794(d) is required to file a memorandum of costs
to obtain an award of costs and expenses after prevailing in the action.
 
California Code of Civil Procedure
Section 1032(b) states that, except as otherwise expressly provided by statute,
a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any
action or proceeding (West's Ann.Cal.C.C.P. § 1032). Additionally, California
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1700(a)(1) specifies that a prevailing party who claims
costs must serve and file a memorandum of costs within 15 days after the date
of service of written notice of entry of judgment or dismissal (Kahn v. The
Dewey Group, 240 Cal.App.4th 227 (2015)).
 
In the context of lemon law cases
under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, Civil Code Section 1794(d)
provides that if the buyer prevails, the court shall allow the buyer to recover
as part of the judgment a sum equal to the aggregate amount of costs and
expenses, including attorney's fees, reasonably incurred in connection with the
commencement and prosecution of the action (West's Ann.Cal.Civ.Code § 1794).
This provision does not exempt the prevailing party from the general
requirement to file a memorandum of costs.
 
Case law supports this requirement.
In Murillo v. Fleetwood Enterprises, Inc., the court affirmed the denial of the
plaintiff's motion to strike the defendants' memorandum of costs, indicating
that Civil Code Section 1794(d) does not bar the entitlement to costs under the
general statutes allowing costs to the prevailing party (Murillo v. Fleetwood
Enterprises, Inc., 17 Cal.4th 985 (1998)).
Because Plaintiff did not file a
memorandum of costs, the request for costs and expenses is denied.  
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.