 Case Number:  22STCV19600    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  S27 The Court heard Petitioner’s
Petition to Approve Compromise of Minor on 11/14/25.  The Court continued the hearing on the
petition to require Petitioner to explain the reason for the proposed
apportionment of the settlement and explain why she would be purchasing private
insurance rather than continuing to use Medi-Cal.  
 
On 1/02/25, Plaintiffs’ attorney
filed a declaration in further support of the petition.  By way of the declaration, Counsel indicates
Petitioner withdraws the request to purchase private insurance, and instead
will place those monies into the blocked account.  Counsel declares the settlement is being
apportioned more to Leslie than to Sophia because Leslie had more extensive
health issues, required additional medical care, suffered emotional distress as
a result of the mold problems, and sustained economic damages to her business
as a result of the mold problem.  
 
The Court is satisfied with the
withdrawal of the request for private insurance and also with the explanation
for the proposed apportionment.  
The Court will process the proposed
orders to approve the compromise and place funds in a blocked account.  No appearance is necessary as the petition
was properly filed as an expedited petition. 
The Court will process the orders to approve the petition and place
funds in a blocked account.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   