  Case Number:  21STCV02859    Hearing Date:   July 29, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




consumer advocacy group,
   inc.

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
midland hardware company
   no. 4

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV02859




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


July
   29, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s motion to approve and enter
  consent judgment
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Consumer Advocacy
Group, Inc.     
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed

Motion to Approve and Enter Consent Judgment
The court
considered the moving papers filed in connection with this motion.  No opposition papers were filed.
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Consumer Advocacy
Group, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an order approving and entering
the [Proposed] Consent Judgment entered into between Plaintiff, on the one
hand, and defendant Kittrich Corporation (“Defendant”), on the other hand,
pursuant to Health and Safety Code section 25249.7.
Actions brought under the Safe Drinking
Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986 (the “Act”) require court approval of
settlements. A plaintiff is required to “submit the settlement, other than a
voluntary dismissal in which no consideration is received from the defendant,
to the court for approval upon noticed motion . . . .” (Health & Safety
Code § 25249.7, subd. (f)(4).)  “[T]he
court may approve the settlement only if the court makes all of the following
findings:
(A) The warning that is required by the
settlement complies with this chapter. 
(B) The award of attorney’s fees is reasonable
under California law. 
(C) The penalty amount is reasonable based on the
criteria set forth in paragraph (2) of subdivision (b).”
(Health & Safety Code, § 25249.7, subd.
(f)(4).) 
The plaintiff seeking approval
of the settlement “has the burden of producing evidence sufficient to sustain
each required finding.  The plaintiff
shall serve the motion and all supporting papers on the Attorney General, who
may appear and participate in a proceeding without intervening in the
case.”  (Health & Safety Code, §
25249.7, subd. (f)(5).) 
First, the court finds that
Plaintiff has submitted a proof of service establishing service of the pending
motion and supporting documents on the Office of the Attorney General 45 days
before the hearing on this motion and therefore has complied with the service
requirements.  (Health & Safety Code,
§ 25249.7, subd. (f)(5); 11 CCR § 3003, subd. (a); June 14, 2024 Proof of
Service, pp. 2-4.)  As of July 24, 2024,
the Office of the Attorney General did not object to or comment further on the
proposed Consent Judgment, although the court does not construe the absence of
this objection to be an endorsement or concurrence of the parties’ settlement.  (July 24, 2024 Yeroushalmi Decl., ¶ 7; 11 CCR
§ 3003, subd. (a).)
Second, the court finds that
Plaintiff has shown that the warning that is required by the Consent Judgment
complies with the Act.  (Health &
Safety Code, § 25249.7, subd. (f)(4)(A).)
“No person in the course of
doing business shall knowingly and intentionally expose any individual to a
chemical known to the state to cause cancer or reproductive toxicity without
first giving clear and reasonable warning to such individual, except as provided
in Section 25249.10.”  (Health &
Safety Code, § 25249.6.)  A warning is
clear and reasonable within the meaning of the Act if (1) the name of one or
more of the listed chemicals is included in the text of the warning, and (2)
the warning is prominently displayed on a label, labeling, or sign, and
displayed with such conspicuousness as compared with other words, statements,
designs, or devices on the label, labelling, or sign, as to render the warning
likely to be seen, read, and understood by an ordinary individual under
customary conditions of purchase or use. 
(27 CCR § 25601, subds. (a), (b), (c).) 
Defendant has agreed that (1)
Defendant shall not order any covered products for sale into California with
any component that contains Diisononyl Phthalate in excess of 0.1 percent by
weight; (2) for any covered products that Defendant sells, distributes, or
ships into California after the effective date (i.e., the date on which the
Consent Judgment is approved by the court) that were ordered before the
effective date must contain a clear and reasonable warning for cancer unless it
contains no more than 0.1 percent by weight of Diisononyl Phthalate; (3) such
warnings shall be affixed to the packaging of, or directly on, or attached to
the covered products, and shall be prominently placed with such conspicuousness
as compared with other words, statements, designs, or devices as to render it
likely to be read and understood by an ordinary individual under customary
conditions; and (4) covered products already distributed to downstream
releasees prior to the effective date may continue to be sold as-is.  (Yeroushalmi Decl., Ex. A, Proposed Consent
Judgment, ¶¶ 3.3-3.3.)  Moreover,
Defendant has agreed not to sell or distribute the covered products in existing
inventory for sale over the internet without providing a warning in the manner
provided for with respect to internet sales. 
(Yeroushalmi Decl., Ex. A, Proposed Consent Judgment, ¶ 3.3.)  The court finds that these warnings satisfy
the Act’s requirements. 
Second, the court finds that
the award of attorney’s fees is reasonable under California law.  (Health & Safety Code, § 25249.7, subd.
(f)(4)(B).) 
“[T]he
fee setting inquiry in California ordinarily begins with the ‘lodestar,’ i.e.,
the number of hours reasonably expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly
rate. . . . .¿ The reasonable hourly rate is that prevailing in the community
for similar work.¿ The lodestar figure may then be adjusted, based on
consideration of factors specific to the case, in order to fix the fee at the
fair market value for the legal services provided.”¿ (PLCM Group v. Drexler
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095 [internal citations omitted]; Reck v. FCA US
LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 682, 691 [“To determine a reasonable attorney fee
award, the trial court applies the lodestar method”].)
Defendant
has agreed to pay attorney’s fees to Plaintiff in the total amount of
$325,000.  (Yeroushalmi Decl., Ex. A, Proposed Consent
Judgment, ¶ 4.1.3.)  Plaintiff has
submitted the declaration of its counsel, in which counsel attests to the
skills, qualifications, experience, and hourly rates of the attorneys, law
clerks, and support staff who worked on this action.  (Yeroushalmi Decl., ¶¶ 10, 13-15.)  The court finds that the hourly rates
requested are reasonable in light of the skills, qualifications, and experience
of counsel, the law clerks, and the legal support staff.  (Yeroushalmi Decl., ¶¶ 10 [$990 hourly rate
for Yeroushalmi], 13 [$530 hourly rate for Royster], 14 [$435 hourly rate for
Allen, $475 hourly rate for Liao, and $435 hourly rate for Purcell], 15, subd.
(a) [$250 hourly rate for law clerks Sengupta, Singh, and Grams], 15, subd. (b)
[$95 hourly rate for administrative assistants Klyczek and Suh].)  Plaintiff’s counsel has also attested, in his
declaration, that the attorneys, law clerks, and legal staff expended a total
number of 633.2 hours in this action.  (Yeroushalmi Decl., ¶ 23.) 
The court finds that the number of hours expended in this action to
investigate Defendant’s alleged violations of Proposition 65, draft the
Complaint, engage in discovery and prepare and file various discovery motions,
and settle this action with Defendant is reasonable.  (Yeroushalmi Decl., ¶¶ 27 [work performed
regarding investigation and notices], 28 [complaint-related work], 29 [work
performed regarding discovery], 30 [settlement-related work].)  Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has
established a lodestar figure of $349,642. 
(Yeroushalmi Decl., ¶ 23.)  
The court therefore finds that
the award of $325,000 in attorney’s fees in the Consent Judgment is reasonable
under California law. 
Third, the court finds that
the penalty amount is reasonable based on the criteria set forth in Health and
Safety Code section 25249.7, subdivision (b)(2).
In assessing the amount of a
civil penalty for a violation of this chapter, the court should consider all of
the following: (1) the nature and extent of the violation; (2) the number of,
and severity of, the violations; (3) the economic effect of the penalty on the
violator; (4) whether the violator took good faith measures to comply with the
Act and the time these measures were taken; (5) the willfulness of the
violator’s misconduct; (6) the deterrent effect that the imposition of the
penalty would have on both the violator and regulated community as a whole; and
(7) any other factor that justice may require. 
(Health & Safety Code, § 25249.7, subd. (b)(2).) 
Pursuant to the Consent
Judgment, Defendant will issue two separate checks in the total amount of
$57,156 for civil penalties, to be allocated as follows: (1) $42,867 (totaling
75 percent of the civil penalty) will be paid to the State of California’s Office
of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment, and (2) $14,289 (totaling 25 percent
of the civil penalty) will be paid to Plaintiff.  (Yeroushalmi Decl., Ex. A, Consent Judgment,
¶¶ 4.1-4.1.1.)  After considering the
factors set forth in section 25249.7 and the evidence submitted by Plaintiff,
including that 75 percent of the penalty will be paid to the State of
California’s Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment, the court finds
that the civil penalty is reasonable. 
(Yeroushalmi Decl., ¶¶ 6, 7 [the DINP exposure is a severe violation due
to its highly toxic nature], 8 [although Plaintiff attempted to resolve this
issue prior to filing suit, Defendant has expressed willingness to reformulate
the product], 9 [the agreement to pay civil penalties was reached through
arms-length negotiations]; Yeroushalmi Decl., Ex. B [Certificate of Analysis];
11 CCR § 3203 [setting forth the other factors that justice may require].) 
Finally, the court finds that
Plaintiff has shown that it is in the public interest to offset the civil
penalty required by statute with the additional settlement payment to Plaintiff
in the amount of $42,844 because (1) it does not exceed the $42,867 civil
penalty to be deposited to the State of California’s Office of Environmental
Health Hazard Assessment; (2) the Consent Judgment limits its use of this
additional settlement payment to cover the fees for the investigation and
testing of the Proposition 65-listed chemical and the administrative costs
incurred during the investigation and litigation to reduce the public’s
exposure to the Proposition 65-listed chemical, which (i) has a clear and
substantial nexus to Defendant’s alleged violation of the Act and (ii) is
sufficiently specific; (3) the recipient thereof is an entity that is
accountable (i.e., Plaintiff); and (4) the Consent Judgment requires Plaintiff
to, within 30 days of a request from the Attorney General, provide copies of
documentation demonstrating how the funds have been spent.  (11 CCR §§ 3203, subd. (d), 3204, subds.
(b)(1)-(b)(6); Yeroushalmi Decl., Ex. A, Consent Judgment, ¶ 4.1.2; Yeroushalmi
Decl., ¶ 3; Marcus Decl., ¶¶ 6-12, 14.) 
Thus, the court finds that
Plaintiff has met its burden to establish that the Consent Judgment entered
into by and between it and Defendant complies with the Act and is
reasonable.  (Health & Safety Code, §
25249.7, subds. (f)(4), (f)(5).)  The
court therefore grants Plaintiff’s motion.
ORDER
            The court grants plaintiff Consumer
Advocacy Group, Inc.’s motion to approve and enter consent judgment. 
            The court will sign and file the
proposed “Consent Judgment,” lodged with the court by plaintiff Consumer
Advocacy Group, Inc. on June 14, 2024.
            The court orders plaintiff Consumer
Advocacy Group, Inc. to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  July 29, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court