  Case Number:  23SMCV05548    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  O  Case Name: 
American Capital Enterprises, Inc. v. Evocative, Inc.



Case No.:


23SMCV05548


Complaint Filed:


11-28-23         




Hearing Date:


10-25-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


8


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None



SUBJECT:                 MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant Evocative, Inc.
RESP.
PARTY:         Plaintiff American
Capital Enterprises, Inc. 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
Defendant
Evocative, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED. Defendant provides the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement within the 2018 Master Service
Agreement (“MSA”). Plaintiff does not meet their burden to show any defense to
the arbitrability of the matter. The Court finds that the 2018 MSA Arbitration
Agreement governs the matter. The action is stayed
pending resolution of arbitration pursuant to CCP §1281.4.
Defendant
Evocative, Inc.’s Objections are SUSTAINED as not relevant to the matter under Evid.
Code, §§ 210, 350
 
REASONING
            Under both the Title 9 section 2 of the United States
Code (known as the Federal Arbitration Act, hereinafter “FAA”) and the Title 9
of Part III of the California Code of Civil Procedure commencing at section
1281 (known as the California Arbitration Act, hereinafter “CAA”), arbitration
agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that
exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. 
(Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)  
 
            “The petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence
of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a
party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of
the evidence any fact necessary to its defense. In these summary proceedings,
the trial court sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits,
declarations, and other documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony
received at the court's discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Engalla
v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972, as
modified (July 30, 1997).)                                                             
 
            “The party opposing arbitration has the burden of
demonstrating that an arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to require
arbitration of the dispute.” (Rice v. Downs (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1213,
1223, citing Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California
(2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686-87.)   “On
petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a
written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to the agreement
refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and
the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement
to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right
to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner…”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
 
            “A party opposing the petition bears the burden of
proving by a preponderance of evidence any fact necessary to its defense.” (Olvera
v. El Pollo Loco, Inc. (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 447, 453.) CCP §1281.2 only
allows the Court to deny enforcement of an applicable arbitration agreement
where the party resisting arbitration demonstrates (1) waiver; (2) grounds for
rescission of the agreement; or (3) grounds involving third parties to the
arbitration agreement and potential for inconsistent rulings of fact or law.
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
 
I.      Petitioner
Meets Burden to Prove Existence of Valid Arbitration Agreement 
 
            Defendant Evocative, Inc. (“Evocative”) moves to compel
arbitration based on mandatory arbitration provisions within either the 2018 or
2022 Master Service Agreements (“MSA”) entered into by Plaintiff American
Capital Enterprises, Inc. (“ACE”). (See Mektrakarn Decl., ¶¶ 6, 8; Ex. 2, 5.) Evocative
provides a declaration attached to the motion from Ted Mektrakarn (“Mektrakarn”),
who declares he is the Co-Chief Executive Officer for VPLS, Inc. (“VPLS”) and
thus has “personal knowledge of the facts stated herein and [is] competent to
testify on the matters addressed.” (Id., ¶ 1.) Mektrakarn declares that Evocative “does
not own VPLS,” but both “Evocative and VPLS are each subsidiaries of EVOPLS,
Inc.,” and in 2018 ACE “engaged VPLS to store certain of ACE’s digital
data.”  (Id., ¶¶ 2, 3.) Mektrakarn
declares that on 3-20-18 ACE accepted, and signed, a quote for VPLS’s cloud-based
services which incorporated the 2018 MSA. (Id., 4–6; Ex. 2.)  Mektrakarn declares that on October of 2022
ACE “accepted two new, interrelated quotes for services from VPLS,” and attached
to the quotes was the 2022 MSA. (Id.,¶ 8; Ex. 4, 5.) ACE alleges that they
contracted with VPLS for the cloud services within the Complaint, however they
listed Evocative as the Defendant due to the belief that Evocative acquired and
absorbed VPLS. (Compl., ¶ 9, fn. 1.)
 
            The relevant
portions of the mandatory arbitration agreement within the 2018 MSA states as
follows:
 
Arbitration. In the event of any
claim, dispute or controversy arising out of or relating to the interpretation,
performance and/or breach of this Agreement (except for claims for injunctive
relief), the parties agree that any claim, dispute and/or controversy which
would otherwise require or allow resort to any court or other governmental
dispute resolution forum between the parties whether based on tort, contract,
statutory or equitable law, or otherwise, shall be submitted to and determined
exclusively by binding arbitration under the Federal Arbitration Act, in
conformity with the procedures of the California Arbitration Act.
 
However, in addition to requirements
imposed by law, any arbitrator herein shall be a retired California Superior
Court judge and shall be subject to disqualification on the same grounds as
would apply to a judge of such court. Such arbitration shall occur in Orange
County, California.
 
 
(Mektrakarn Decl., ¶ 6; Ex. 2, § 15.9,
subd. (b).)
 
The mandatory
arbitration agreement within the 2022 MSA states as follows:
 
Arbitration. Except for disputes
regarding unpaid Customer fees due to Company, any claim or controversy arising
out of or relating to the Agreement, or any breach thereof between the Parties,
shall be submitted to arbitration in San Francisco or Los Angeles, California,
before an experienced arbitrator who has been an attorney, retired judge or
C-level executive selected in accordance with the Rules of the American
Arbitration Association, as the exclusive remedy for such claim or controversy.
Either party desiring to arbitrate shall give written notice to the other party
within a reasonable period after the party becomes aware of the need for
arbitration. The decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding.
Judgment on any award rendered by such arbitrator may be entered in any court
having jurisdiction over the subject matter of the controversy. The fees and
costs of the arbitrator shall be paid equally by the Parties. With respect to
disputers regarding unpaid Customer fees, Company shall have right to file a
lawsuit to attempt to collect these unpaid fees.
 
(Id., ¶ 
8; Ex. 5, § 7, subd. (k).)
 
Evocative shows that the 2018 MSA
applies to the 2018 Quote, including any “Service Orders” defined as “orders
for Services on Host’s standard service order forms, quotes, invoices, and/or
professional services engagement agreements. (Id., ¶ 6; Ex. 2, §
1.10, 2 [“The term and conditions contained in this Agreement shall be binding
upon any Service Order together with any supplemental terms and conditions,
including the SLA, Acceptable Use Policy, Privacy Policy, and any other exhibit
to this Agreement.”] Additionally Evocative shows that the 2018 MSA renews
automatically for one-year periods. (Id., ¶ 6; Ex. 2, § 3.1.)
 
Evocative shows that the 2022 quotes
are governed by the 2018 MSA through the following clause within the 2022 quotes:
 
Terms and Conditions 
The following terms and conditions
shall govern this Quote unless a valid Master Services Agreement between the
parties, if any, for professional services has been executed and is in force at
the time any Quote is executed; in which case the terms of the Master Services
Agreement shall govern to the extent that they are inconsistent with this
Quote.
 
(Id., ¶ 8; Ex. 5 at p. 6 (p. 57
of Motion.)
 
The 2018 MSA was
in force at the time of the 2022 Quote was executed, thus the 2018 MSA,
including the 2018 mandatory arbitration provision, governs the quote under the
terms and conditions of the 2022 Quotes. 
 
ACE argues that Evocative cannot
provide a binding arbitration agreement because the Complaint is based
specifically on the 2022 Backup Agreement, Ex. 4 in the motion, which does not
contain any attached terms and conditions, and thus the integration clause
attached to this specific quote governs the quote meaning there is no
arbitration agreement for this specific quote. (See Opposition, p. 7–10;
Compl., 16, Ex. 1) 
 
The Court does not find this
argument persuasive. The 2022 Backup Agreement specifically states:
 
Thank you for your inquiry. We are
pleased to provide you with this quote. https:/ /www.evocative.com (888)
365-2656 Unless another VPLS contract form is noted, this quote is subject
solely and exclusively to the VPLS Terms and Conditions attached hereto and
incorporated by this reference herein. These Terms contain the entire
understanding of the parties with respect to the sale of product contained
within this quote and supersede all prior communications between the parties,
regardless of form. In no event shall pre-printed terms on any customer
document (PO, confirmation, etc.) modify or add to the VPLS Terms referenced
herein.
 
(Mektrakarn Decl., ¶ 8; Ex. 4.) 
 
There were no terms and conditions
attached to this specific quote in Ex. 4, but there were terms and conditions
included in the second quote sent in Ex. 5 which was sent on the same date as
the Ex. 4 Quote and agreed to within a minute of the Ex. 5 Quote. (Id.,
¶ 8; Ex. 4, 5.) The 2022 Quotes were essentially related to the same subject
matter, the continuation so services between ACE and Evocative, and thus the
circumstances under which they were executed requires them to be interpreted together
as a single transaction. (See Civ. Code, § 1642 [“Several contracts relating to
the same matters, between the same parties, and made as parts of substantially
one transaction, are to be taken together.”] Additionally, it is clear from the
plain language that the integration clause refers to any terms and conditions
which are attached the quote and not to the quote itself. Evocative provides a
declaration that the quotes within Ex. 4 and 5 were sent alongside each other
with the understanding that the terms and conditions applied to both quotes.  (Mektrakarn
Decl., ¶ 8.)  This interpretation is not inconsistent
with the holding of Mountain Air Enterprises, LLC v. Sundowner Towers, LLC
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 744, 759. In Mountain Air, the two contracts both for the
purchase of a single property (the “South Tower.”)  The court compared the two agreements together
and based on “convincing evidence”  concluded
the parties intended the prior agreement to be canceled . (Id at 759.) In so
doing, the Court of Appeal still recognized  “[w]hile it is the rule that several contracts
relating to the same matters are to be construed together (Ci. Code, sec.
1642), it does not follow that for all purposes they constitute
one contract.” (Emphasis added, p.759.)
 
Furthermore, the 2018 MSA is expressly
applicable to any service orders entered into between the parties, since the
2018 MSA renewed every year after the parties entered into the contract.
Neither party provides any evidence of opting out of the 2018 MSA, and thus,
the 2018 applies to the Ex. 4 quote with or without the Ex. 5 quote terms and
conditions.
 
Thus, Evocative has provided a
valid arbitration agreement within the 2018 MSA that governs the dispute. The
burden now shifts to ACE to provide any defenses to the compelling of
arbitration. 
 
II.  
Plaintiffs Burden to Prove a Defense to
Enforcement
 
a.    
Plaintiff incorrectly argues there are
conflicting venue and jurisdiction clauses, and thus is no clear agreement to
arbitrate
            
            ACE argues that the if the 2022 MSA governs, then there
are conflicting venue and jurisdiction provisions between the 2022 Additional
Storage Agreement, the 2022 Backup Agreement and the 2022 MSA. (Oppo., pp.
10:17–24–12:8.) This argument is not persuasive because the Court has found
that the 2018 MSA governs.  Regardless, separate
venue and jurisdiction provisions do not necessarily “displace the application
of the Federal Arbitration Act [or California Arbitration Act].” (Scott v.
Yoho (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 392, 402, as modified (June 28, 2016);
see Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 153, 157 [“Both the FAA and
the CAA employ the same principles of contract interpretation. Thus,
regardless of which act governs the interpretation of the Agreement, the result
is the same”].)) 
 
            The 2018 MSA is governed by the FAA, and the 2022 MSA is
likely governed by the CAA because no choice of law is expressly agreed upon in
the 2022 MSA arbitration agreement. (see Mave Enterprises, Inc. v.
Travelers Indemnity Co. (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1408, 1429 [“the
procedural provisions of the CAA” apply in California courts “absent a
choice-of-law provision expressly mandating the application of the procedural
law of another jurisdiction”].) Thus, since there are separate venue and
jurisdiction provisions, that alone will not render the arbitration agreement
void. (See Mektrakarn Decl., ¶¶ 6, 8; Ex. 2, 5.) The Terms and Conditions
included in the 2022 Additional Storage Agreement are superseded by any valid
MSA entered into at the time of the quote, which at that time, was the 2018
MSA. (See Id., ¶ 8, Ex. 5 at p. 6 [“The following terms and conditions
shall govern this Quote unless a valid Master Services Agreement between the
parties, if any, for professional services has been executed and is in force at
the time any Quote is executed; in which case the terms of the Master Services
Agreement shall govern to the extent that they are inconsistent with this Quote.”]
Thus, there are no conflicts between the quote Terms and Conditions and the MSA
because the still active MSA still governs. 
 
            The provision within the 2022 MSA stating that the
parties submit to sole and exclusive jurisdiction of the courts of California,
is a choice of forum clause that works alongside the arbitration clause for the
exact purposes of the dispute at issue here, courts resolving the issue of
whether there in fact is an agreement to arbitrate. Furthermore, for the areas
that are carved out of the arbitration agreement, i.e. payment disputes, the
venue clause provides the venue for those disputes to be brought. (See Mektrakarn
Decl., ¶ 8; Ex. 5, § 7(h).)
 
            ACE argues that the 2018 MSA states arbitration must be
in Orange County while the 2022 MSA arbitration must be brought in either San
Francisco or Los Angeles, and thus the two provisions are in conflict leading
to a void arbitration agreement. The Court finds that the 2018 MSA governs, as
analyzed above, thus the arbitration must be brought in Orange County. There is
no conflict between the two contracts when the 2018 MSA governs the dispute. 
 
b.    
Arbitration clause is not inconspicuous, nor
fraudulent.
 
            Ace argues there is “no agreement to arbitrate because
the arbitration clauses in the 2018 and 2022 MSA are [in]conspicuous,
especially in relation to the 2022 Backup Agreement,” citing to Domestic
Linen Supply Co., Inc. v. L J T Flowers, Inc. (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 180,
185.
 
            In Domestic Linen Supply, the arbitration
agreement was in small font, contained no heading, was located after the
signature line, and buried among “closely spaced lines of small type,” leading
the court to find the agreement “deceptive” and thus did not indicate an
agreement to arbitrate. (Ibid.) The 2018 MSA Arbitration Agreement,
which governs this dispute, is not buried among other provisions, in fact, the
provision is one full page of the agreement. (See Mektrakarn Decl., ¶ 6; Ex. 2
§ 15. at pp. 11–12.) The terms “MEDIATION AND ARBITRATION,” are in all
caps and underlined at the top of the page and “Arbitration” is
underlined in section § 15.9(b). (Ibid.) Additionally, there is a
signature line at the bottom of the 2018 MSA. (Id., p. 40 of the
motion.) The 2018 MSA arbitration agreement is not intentionally deceptive, the
situation in Domestic Linen Supply is distinguishable from the issue at
hand, and thus the arbitration clause here is conspicuous. 
 
            ACE argues the 2022 Backup Agreement does not include an
arbitration clause, therefore ACE was not put on notice of the arbitration
agreement within the new quotes, thus the 2022 MSA is based on fraud and void. This
argument fails since ACE had notice of the arbitration agreement within the
2018 MSA which governed all future quotes by the terms of the 2018 MSA, and
additionally governs this dispute, as analyzed above. (See Mektrakarn Decl., ¶
6; Ex. 2 § 2 [Mektrakarn Decl., ¶ 6; Ex. 2 § 2 [“The term and conditions
contained in this Agreement shall be binding upon any Service Order.”]
 
c.     
Plaintiff argues the motion was filed for delay
 
            Ace argues the that even though this motion was filed
on 6-3-24, Evocative has not responded to written discovery requests served on
4-19-24, thus the Court should compel ACE to immediately respond to discovery
since a motion to compel arbitration does not stay ongoing proceedings. (See OTO,
L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 140 [“The filing of a petition to
compel arbitration does not automatically stay ongoing proceedings; the party
seeking arbitration must request one.”) This argument is MOOT since the motion
to compel arbitration is GRANTED and the case is now stayed pending resolution
of arbitration. 


III.          
Stay pending
resolution of arbitration pursuant to CCP §1281.4 
            “If a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this
State or not, has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue
involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the
court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a
party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an
arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such
earlier time as the court specifies.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) 
The action is stayed pending resolution of arbitration
pursuant to CCP §1281.4.