  Case Number:  23PSCV01816    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Oceanus Decor & Flooring, Inc.’s Motion
to Vacate Default
Respondent:
Plaintiff Andes Harvest, Inc.
Defendant Zhigang Cui’s Motion to Vacate Default
Respondent:
Plaintiff Andes Harvest, Inc.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Oceanus Decor & Flooring, Inc.’s Motion
to Vacate Default is GRANTED.
Defendant Zhigang Cui’s Motion to Vacate Default is
GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
This
is a breach of contract action arising from a series of sublease agreements.
Defendants Cups (DE) LP (Cups) and Wadd-II (TN) LP (Wadd) are alleged to be the
owners of a commercial property in the City of Industry. Since 2001, Defendant Novolex Holdings, LLC (Novolex) allegedly rented the City
of Industry property from Cups and Wadd and had been subleasing the property to
Defendant Oceanus Decor & Flooring, Inc. (Oceanus) since 2022. In May 2023,
Plaintiff Andes Harvest, Inc. (Andes) agreed to sublease the City of Industry
property from Oceanus. After Andes made a payment of $182,420.08 which included
the first month’s rent and a security deposit, Andes discovered the electrical
system for the City of Industry property had been removed. When Andes demanded
return of first months’ rent and security deposit in June 2023, Oceanus only
offered to return the payment in installments, Novolex denied liability, and Cups
and Wadd both ignored Andes’s demand.
On
June 20, 2023, Andes filed a complaint against Cups, Wadd, Novolex, Oceanus, Zhigang Cui,
CBRE, Inc. (CBRE), and Does 1-25, alleging the following causes of action: (1)
breach of contract, (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing, (3) concealment, (4) conversion, (5) restitution, and (6) breach of the
duty of disclosure.
On October
16, 2023, Oceanus filed a motion to vacate the entry of default against
Oceanus. On October 17, Cui also filed a motion to vacate the entry of default.
On November 28, the court denied their motions.
On
December 15, 2023, Oceanus and Cui filed the present motions. A hearing on the
motions is set for January 16, 2024, along with a case management conference.
ANALYSIS
Oceanus
and Cui seek to set aside the entry of default on the grounds of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS their motions.
Legal Standard
Whenever
an application for relief from default judgment is made no more than six months
after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by the moving
party’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect, the court may vacate any (1) resulting default
entered by the clerk against the moving party or (2) resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against the moving party, unless the court finds that the
default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the moving party’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., §473, subd.
(b).) “The six-month time limit for granting statutory relief is jurisdictional
and the court may not consider a motion for relief made after that period has
elapsed.” (Manson, Iver & York v. Black (2009) 176 Cal.App.4th 36,
42 (Manson).) That “six-month period runs from entry of default, not
entry of judgment.” (Id.)
Courts
liberally grant motions to vacate default judgments when relief is promptly
sought and the opposing party is not prejudiced as the law strongly favors
resolution on the merits. (Kramer v. Traditional Escrow, Inc. (2020) 56
Cal.App.5th 13, 28.) Courts only require “slight evidence” to support vacating
a default and resolve all doubts in favor of the party seeking relief. (Ibid.)
However, “[t]he only occasion for the application of section 473 is where a party
is unexpectedly placed in a situation to his injury without fault or negligence
of his own and against which ordinary prudence could not have guarded.” (Hearn
v. Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1206, quoting Elms v. Elms (1946)
72 Cal.App.2d 508, 513.)
Discussion
In
this case, default was entered against Oceanus on August 10, 2023. On August
23, default was entered against Cui. Because the present motions were filed on
December 15, the court finds they are timely filed.
In
Cui’s declaration, Cui advises that he speaks Mandarin as a native language and
cannot read, speak, or write in English. (Cui Decl., ¶ 6.) As a result, Cui
states Oceanus’s bilingual employees often help with translating documents for
Cui. When such employees are unavailable, Cui relies on translation software
which he claims is not always accurate, complete, or informative. (Cui Decl., ¶
6.) When the Complaint and summons in this action were served on Cui and
Oceanus, Oceanus’s employees “summarily translated the summons and complaint to
the extent they could” and told Cui that the company was being sued. (Cui
Decl., ¶ 8.) But, Cui states Cui misunderstood the summons and did not know a
timely response was required. (Cui Decl., ¶ 8-9.)
“In
considering whether a mistake of law furnishes grounds for relief, ‘the
determining factors are the reasonableness of the misconception and the
justifiability of lack of determination of the correct law.’” (Hopkins &
Carley v. Gens (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1413, quoting Torbitt v.
State of California (1984) 161 Cal.App.3d 860, 866.) Here, the
reasonableness of Cui’s misunderstanding presents a close question as the
summons clearly states “You have 30 CALENDAR DAYS after this summons and legal
papers are served on you to file a written response at this court and have a
copy served on the plaintiff.” (Liu Decl., Ex. B.) And while Cui states he was
unable to read English, Cui does state Oceanus’s staff helped in translating
the summons. (Cui Decl., ¶ 6, 8.) But in considering the well-established
precedent for resolving cases on the merits, the court exercises its discretion
to resolve this close question in favor of Cui and Oceanus.
Accordingly,
Oceanus and Cui’s motions are GRANTED.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing,
Oceanus and Cui’s motions to vacate default are GRANTED. The proposed answer and
cross-complaint submitted with their motion are deemed filed as of this date.
Oceanus and Cui are order to
file separately the answer and cross-complaint.