  Case Number:  24STCV01452    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  9  
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
Arthur
Sierra v City of Los Angeles
 
24STCV01452
 
September
6, 2024
 
                                           
[TENTATIVE] CASE MANAGEMENT
ORDER
 
 
            This action has been designated as
complex pursuant to CRC 3.400(a), and thus requires exceptional judicial
management. All provisions of this CMO are deemed necessary to carry out the
purposes of Rule 3.400(a), and to promote effective decision-making by the
Court. They are based upon individual consideration of this complex action, including
the Status Conference Reports previously filed by the parties.
 
 
1.                 
The
Parties are unaware of any relevant arbitration agreements and/or class action
waiver clauses.
 
2.                 
The
Court hereby lifts the stay to permit Defendant to file and serve a Responsive
Pleading to the Complaint. Defendant must file and serve a Responsive Pleading by
no later than October 21, 2024.  Before
filing any demurrer or other motion, the moving party must contact the
Court Staff in Department 9 to obtain a hearing date and a briefing schedule.  The Court sets a Non-Appearance Case Review
Re: Filing and Serving of Defendant’s Responsive Pleading for October 29, 2024,
8:30 AM, Department 9.  
 
3.                 
Phased Discovery. Discovery
will be phased with the stay lifted once Defendant’s answer is filed and served
or, if applicable, after the Court rules on any pleading challenge. At that
time, the Court will permit class certification discovery only.  Informal
discovery is permitted.  Merits-based
discovery will be allowed after a successful class certification motion. If
there is a dispute concerning whether a given discovery request is or
certification or merits-based, the parties are to set up a telephonic
conference with the court pursuant to the instructions herein. 
 
4.                 
Protective Order. 
Parties are alerted that model protective orders may be found at Los
Angeles Superior Court website at http://www.lacourt.org/division/civil/CI0043.aspx.  The parties are encouraged to use these model
orders as shown, or if modified, as a template for the modified order.  A redlined courtesy copy must be posted on
the e-service bulletin board and lodged with the court at the time of filing.
The parties must use the redlined version to identify any changes proposed to
the model order.
 
5.                 
E-service & E-filing.  Electronic service is not the same as
electronic filing.  The parties have
agreed, and the Court has signed an order authorizing Case Anywhere as the
e-service to be used in this case. 
Argument must not be posted on the bulletin board.  For information on electronic filing in the
Complex Courts, please refer to https://www.lacourt.org/division/efiling/efiling2.aspx and  http://www.lacourt.org/division/efiling/pdf/ComplexefilingFAQs.pdf.
 
6.                 
Class Certification Motion.    Class
Certification Motion filing and serving deadline is September 8, 2025. The
plaintiff is reminded that the plaintiff’s brief must contain a trial
plan.  The trial plan MUST be
filed as a separate brief.  As with all
other motions, Counsel must call the Court to obtain a hearing date and
briefing schedule PRIOR to filing and serving the motion for Class
Certification.  The Court sets a Non-Appearance
Case Review for September 15, 2025, 8:30 AM, Department 9.
 
7.                 
Telephonic conferences.  The Court handles discovery motions
informally, using telephonic conferences and LA CourtConnect. Counsel must post
a message via their Electronic Service Provider to request any informal
discovery conference or other conference. The Court will either reply to the
message or issue a Minute Order setting the conference.  The telephonic conference will automatically
be taken off calendar if all relevant parties have not scheduled the telephonic
conference with LA CourtConnect.  Parties
must file and serve a 5-page joint brief two days before the conference. Since
these conferences are informal, no court reporter or audio recording is
permitted.
 
8.                 
Potential Related Cases.  Counsel are ordered to file and serve a
Notice of Related Case for any potentially related cases pursuant California
Rule of court Rule 3.300.  This is a
continuing obligation on both plaintiffs and defendants while this case is
pending.
 
9.                 
Settlement. 
File a Notice of Settlement on Judicial Council form CM-200, a mandatory
form. 
 
 
Plaintiff
is ordered to download the instant signed order from the Court’s website,
to give formal notice to all other parties, and to file proof of service of
such within five (5) days.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:         September 6, 2024                  
 
                                                                                    __________________________
                                                                                    ELAINE
LU
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court