 Case Number:  24STCV14439    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  76 The following
tentative ruling is issued pursuant to Rule of Court 3.1308 at 1:47 p.m. on November 19, 2024.  
Notice of intent
to appear is REQUIRED pursuant to California Rule of Court 3.1308(a)(1).  The Court does not desire oral argument on
the motion addressed herein.  
As required by
Rule 3.1308(a)(1), any party seeking oral argument must notify ALL OTHER
PARTIES and the staff of Department 76 by 4:00 p.m. on November 19, 2024.
Notice to
Department 76 may be sent by email to smcdept76@lacourt.org or telephonically
at 213-830-0776. 
Per
Rule of Court 3.1308, if notice of intention to appear is not given, oral
argument will not be permitted.            Plaintiff alleges that she was terminated
for complaining about illegal practices in connection with her employment, including
illegal evictions, wage and hour violations, failure to conform with building code
regulations, and racial discrimination in security deposit requirements.
Defendants Good Health, Inc., 5500 Noho,
LLC, Edwin’s Prescription Pharmacy, ABR Realty, LLC, and Stephen Samuel move to
compel arbitration and stay this action.
TENTATIVE RULING 
Defendants Good Health, Inc., 5500
Noho, LLC, Edwin’s Prescription Pharmacy, ABR Realty, LLC, and Stephen Samuel’s
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. 
The litigation
is ordered stayed pending arbitration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) The Court sets a status conference regarding the status of arbitration
for April 18, 2025 at 8:30 a.m.
ANALYSIS
Motion To Compel Arbitration
and Stay Action
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary
Objection
            Declaration of Stefania Cozmiuc
¶ 7: OVERRULED. Plaintiff
does not dispute that her signature appears on the document, thereby sufficiently
authenticating it.
Exhibit B: OVERRULED.
Plaintiff does not dispute that her signature appears on the document, thereby sufficiently
authenticating it.
Discussion
Defendants Good Health, Inc., 5500 Noho,
LLC, Edwin’s Prescription Pharmacy, ABR Realty, LLC, and Stephen Samuel move to
compel arbitration and stay this action. 
Plaintiff alleges at ¶ 1 of the Complaint
that at all relevant times she was employed by Good Health, Inc., 5500 NOHO, LLC,
Edwin’s Prescription Pharmacy, 550 Mission Apartments, ABR Realty, and Stephen Samuel
(“Defendants”) until she was wrongfully terminated on January 24, 2024. “Throughout
her employment, Defendants were Plaintiff’s employer of record and controlled many
aspects of Plaintiff’s employment.” (Complaint, ¶ 1.) Plaintiff was hired on December
1, 2021 as a Resident Apartment Supervisor. (Id., ¶ 13.) 
Defendants present two arbitration agreements
which Plaintiff signed in connection with her employment: one signed by Plaintiff
on November 30, 2021, and another signed by Plaintiff on December 1, 2021.
The arbitration agreement signed by
Plaintiff on November 30, 2021 includes the following provision at ¶ 7:
7. 
Mediation. Any Claim required to be arbitrated under this Agreement
shall be submitted to mediation in a manner agreed to by Employee and
Employer. Employee and Employer agree to use mediation to attempt to resolve
any such Claim prior to filing for arbitration under this Agreement.
Employee and Employer will select a mediator agreeable to both parties. The costs
of the mediation and fees of the mediator will be borne entirely by Employer.
The parties will cooperate with the mediator on mediation arrangements, including
time and place for mediation, who will attend or participate, and what information
will be exchanged.
      (November 30, 2021
Agreement, ¶ 7 [bold emphasis and italics added].)
            Per Plaintiff’s
counsel, Defendant refused to pay for the costs of mediation prior to arbitrating
this matter. (Declaration of Devon M. Lyon, ¶¶ 4 – 7; Exh. B.) Because Defendant
failed to satisfy this express contractual condition precedent to the right to arbitrate,
Defendant is not entitled to enforce the arbitration agreement in the November 30,
2021 agreement.
            As for the December
1, 2021 arbitration agreement, Plaintiff claims that she does not remember signing
it, but she does not dispute that her signature appears on that agreement. (Declaration
of Jennifer Taylor, ¶ 5.) The Court finds that Plaintiff agreed to this December
1, 2021 arbitration agreement, which does not contain mediation as a condition precedent.
Plaintiff argues that this December 1, 2021 agreement is unenforceable because it
fails to identify the parties to the contract. This argument is without merit.
            First, the Company
obviously refers to her employer, which is identified in the last paragraph as Good
Health Inc.—whom Plaintiff admits was her employer. (Taylor Declaration, ¶ 2.) Moreover,
Plaintiff would be the other party to the agreement, as her name and signature appears
at the bottom. Further, Plaintiff admits that Defendants Good Health, Inc., 5500
NOHO, LLC, Edwin’s Prescription Pharmacy, 5500 Mission Apartments, and AB Realty
were her joint employers from approximately December 1, 2021 until my employment
was terminated on January 24, 2024. (Id.) Because Plaintiff has sued all
of these moving Defendants as joint employers (Complaint, ¶ 1) on causes of action
against an employer, Plaintiff is estopped from admitting that Defendants 5500 NOHO,
LLC, Edwin’s Prescription Pharmacy, 5500 Mission Apartments, and AB Realty are entitled
to enforce the arbitration agreement against Plaintiff. Indeed, the co-Defendants
not named in the arbitration agreement would also arguably constitute agents of
the Company for purposes of the arbitration provision. 
Generally speaking, one must be a party
to an arbitration agreement to be bound by it or invoke it.” (Citation omitted.) “There
are exceptions to the general rule that a nonsignatory to an agreement cannot be
compelled to arbitrate and cannot invoke an agreement to arbitrate, without being
a party to the arbitration agreement.” (Citations omitted.)
One pertinent exception is based on the
doctrine of equitable estoppel. (Citations omitted) Under that doctrine, as applied in “both federal
and California decisional authority, a nonsignatory
defendant may invoke an arbitration clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate
its claims when the causes of action against the nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded
in and intertwined’ with the underlying contract obligations.” (Citations omitted.) “By relying on contract terms in a claim against
a nonsignatory defendant, even if not exclusively, a plaintiff may be equitably
estopped from repudiating the arbitration clause contained in that agreement.”
(Citation omitted.) “The rule applies to prevent parties from trifling
with their contractual obligations.” (Citations omitted.)
Where
the equitable estoppel doctrine applies, the nonsignatory has a right to enforce
the arbitration agreement. (Rowe v. Exline, supra, 153 Cal.App.4th at p. 1290.) In such cases, the
nonsignatory is not a “third party” within the meaning of section 1281.2(c), and
that provision simply does not apply. (Rowe v. Exline, at p. 1290.)
(Molecular Analytical Systems v. Ciphergen Biosystems, Inc. (2010) 186
Cal.App.4th 696, 706 [bold emphasis added].)
            Plaintiff’s
Complaint alleges causes of action which may only be asserted against employers
and/or others acting on their behalf. The Court now examines the following relevant
language of the December 1, 2021 arbitration agreement:
Any controversy, dispute or claim between
any employee and the Company, or its officers, agents or other employees, shall
be settled by binding arbitration, at the request of either party. The arbitrability
of any controversy, dispute or claim under this policy shall be determined by application
of the substantive provisions of the Federal Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. Sections
1 and 2). To the extent that the Federal Arbitration
Act is inapplicable, the arbitration
law of the state in which employee works or last worked for the, Company shall apply.
Arbitration shall be the exclusive method for resolving any dispute, provided, however,
that either party may request provisional. relief from a court of competent jurisdiction,
as provided under federal or state law. Even if the Company does not sign for its
receipt or acknowledgement of this policy, the Company, like the employee, agrees
to be bound by this policy and agrees to arbitrate all disputes with its employees
or former employees. 
 
The claims which are to be arbitrated
under this policy include, but are not 
limited to, claims for breach of trade
secret law, claims regarding breaches of confidentiality, violation of non-disclosure/non-solicitation
provisions, 
embezzlement/conversion, employee theft,
claims for wages and other compensation, claims for breach of contract (express
or implied), claims for violation of public policy, wrongful termination, tort claims,
claims for unlawful discrimination and/or harassment (including, but not limited
to, race, religious creed, color, national origin, ancestry, physical disability,
mental disability, gender identity or expression, medical condition, marital status,
age, pregnancy, breastfeeding, sex or sexual orientation) to the extent allowed
by law, and claims for violation of any of the federal, state, or other government
law, statute, regulation, or ordinance, except for claims for workers’ compensation,
unemployment insurance benefits and petitions or charges that could be brought before
the National Labor Relations Board.  
 
BOTH THE COMPANY AND EMPLOYEES UNDERSTAND
THAT BY USING ARBITRATION TO RESOLVE DISPUTES THEY ARE GIVING UP ANY RIGHT THAT
THEY MAY HAVE TO A JUDGE OR JURY.TRIAL WITH REGARD TO ALL ISSUES CONCERNING EMPLOYMENT.

 
(December 1, 2021 Arbitration Agreement,
Page 1; Declaration of Stefania Cozmiuc, Exh. B [bold emphasis added].) 
            The claims asserted
by Plaintiff in the Complaint come within the scope of this arbitration provision. 
The Court will proceed
to address the Armendariz factors.
Armendariz Factors:           
Where a party
seeks to arbitrate nonwaivable statutory civil rights in the workplace (Fitz v. NCR Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th
702, 711-12), such as the FEHA and claim and wage and
hour claims involved here, there are:
five minimum requirements
for the lawful arbitration of such rights pursuant to a mandatory employment arbitration
agreement. Such an arbitration agreement is lawful if it “(1) provides for neutral
arbitrators, (2) provides for more than minimal discovery, (3) requires a written
award, (4) provides for all of the types of relief that would otherwise be available
in court, and (5) does not require employees to pay either unreasonable costs or
any arbitrators’ fees or expenses as a condition of access to the arbitration
forum. Thus, an employee who is made to use arbitration as a condition of employment
‘effectively may vindicate [his or her] statutory cause of action in the arbitral
forum.’ “ (Citation omitted.) 


(Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services,
Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102.)
 
Initially, we see no reason why Armendariz’s
“particular scrutiny” of arbitration agreements should be confined to claims under
FEHA. Rather, under the Supreme Court’s analysis, such scrutiny should apply
to the enforcement of rights under any statute enacted “for a public reason.” 

(Mercuro v. Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal. App. 4th 167, 180 [bold emphasis
added].) 
However,
Armendariz
held that to the extent that the arbitration agreement was silent on these issues,
these requirements must be implied as a matter of law. (Armendariz, supra, 24
Cal.4th at pp. 106, 107, 113 [interpreted the agreement to provide for adequate
discovery, a written arbitration award, and the employer’s payment of arbitration
costs].) To the extent that the agreement
expressly limited these rights, Armendariz held that the agreement was contrary
to public policy and unenforceable. (Id. at p. 104 [stated that a provision
limiting damages was unlawful].)

(Sanchez v. Western Pizza Enterprises, Inc.
(2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 154, 176 [bold emphasis added].) 
(1)  Neutral arbitrators:  
            The
Arbitration Agreement provides at Page 1:
The employee and the Company will select an. arbitrator
by mutual agreement. If the employee. and the Company are unable to agree on a neutral
arbitrator, either party may elect to obtain a list of arbitrators from the Judicial
Arbitration and Mediation Service (“ JAMS”), Alternative Dispute Resolution (“ADR”),
or any other reputable dispute resolution organization. The employment rules for
both JAMS and ADR may be obtained from the Human Resources department upon request
or can be found online at http://www.iamsadr.com/ and http://www.adrservices.org/.

There is no indication that
this would fail to provide for selection of a neutral arbitrator. This requirement
is satisfied.
(2)  More than minimal discovery:
 
 “Adequate discovery is indispensable for the vindication
of statutory claims. (Citation omitted.) “ ‘[A]dequate’ discovery does not mean unfettered discovery … .”
(Citation omitted.) And parties may “agree
to something less than the full panoply of discovery provided in Code of Civil
Procedure section 1283.05.” (Citation omitted.) However, arbitration agreements
must “ensure minimum standards of fairness” so employees can vindicate their public
rights. (Citation omitted).” (Fitz v. NCR
Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 702, 715-16[bold emphasis added].)
 
The Arbitration
Agreement provides at Page 2:
 
The parties shall
be entitled to conduct all discovery to which they would have been entitled to had
the parties’ controversy been filed in court, provided, however, that the arbitrator
shall have -the discretion to issue protective orders or otherwise limit discovery
where reasonably necessary, taking into account the parties’ mutual desire to have
a speedy, less-formal, cost-effective dispute-resolution mechanism.
This requirement
is satisfied.
 (3)  Written
award:
The Arbitration
Agreement states at Page 2:
Following the
hearing and the submission of the matter to the arbitrator, the arbitrator shall
issue a written opinion and award which shall be signed and dated. The arbitrator
shall use his/her best efforts to issue the written award no later than thirty (30)
days from the date the arbitration hearing concludes or the post-hearing briefs
(if requested) are received, whichever is later. The arbitrator’s award shall decide
all issues submitted by the parties, and the arbitrator may not decide any issue
not submitted. The ;arbitrator shall prepare in writing and provide to the parties
a decision and award which includes factual findings and the reasons upon which
the decision is based. The arbitrator shall be permitted to award only those remedies
in law or equity which are requested by the parties and allowed by law.
This requirement
is satisfied.
 (4)  All
types of relief available in court:
The Arbitration
Agreement provides at Page 2: “The arbitrator shall be permitted to award only those
remedies in law or equity which are requested by the parties and allowed by law.” 
This requirement
is satisfied.
 (5)  Does
not require employee to pay unreasonable
costs or any arbitrator’s fees or expenses as a condition to access to arbitration:
The Arbitration
Agreement provides at Page 2:
The cost ,of the arbitrator and other incidental
costs of arbitration that would not be incurred in a court proceeding shall be borne
by the Company, provided, however, that if the employee is the party initiating
the claim, employee will contribute an amount equal to the filing fee to initiate
.a claim in the court of general jurisdiction in the state in 
which employee ,was last employed by the
Company. . The parties shall each bear their own costs and attorneys’ fees in any
arbitration proceeding, provided, however, that the arbitrator shall have the authority
to require either party to pay the costs and attorneys’ fees of the other party,
as is permitted under federal or state law, as a part of any remedy that may be
ordered.
 
The filing fee limit is not an unreasonable
cost. This requirement is satisfied.
 
Accordingly,
the minimum Armendariz requirements are satisfied. 
            As such, the
Court finds that an agreement exists whereby Plaintiff agreed to submit all of the
claims asserted in her Complaint against Defendants to mandatory arbitration. 
 
The burden shifts to Plaintiff to demonstrate
that a triable issue of material fact exists. 
 
            Plaintiff does
not argue that the agreement is unconscionable, nor does he set forth any other
reason why the arbitration agreement should not be enforced, other than those addressed
above. 
 
As such, the motion to compel arbitration
is GRANTED. The litigation is ordered stayed pending
arbitration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) The Court sets a status conference
regarding the status of arbitration for April 18, 2025 at 8:30 a.m.