 Case Number:  23STCP04275    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  76 MOVING PARTY:               Petitioner
Robynn Samuel                                                                                                                       
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Respondent Marlin D. Samuel 
The
instant ex parte application seeks the issuance of a temporary
restraining order  (“TRO”) against
Defendant Marlin D. Samuel, preventing Respondent from accessing a Bank of America
joint business account.  
This
is the second time that Petitioner has sought a TRO in this case.  On August 28, 2024, the Court issued an order
denying Petitioner’s ex parte application for an order advancing the
hearing date on a request for a temporary restraining order.  For the reasons stated in the August 28, 2024
ruling, the previous ex parte application was miscaptioned, and sought
the actual issuance of a temporary restraining order on the date of hearing.  Since a request for the same relief was previously
made and denied, the instant ex parte application does not comply with California
Rule of Court 3.1550(e), which requires a moving party to state whether there
has been a previous application for similar relief, and if so, the result of
the application. 
Having
reviewed the application and supporting documents, the Court finds this matter
suitable for decision in chambers without argument.
ANALYSIS
A.   
Preliminary Injunctions
and Temporary Restraining Orders
            Ex parte requests for temporary
restraining orders are subject to the Rules of Court governing ex parte applications
generally.  In this regard, the ex
parte application does not appear to comply with the declaration of notice
requirement of Rule of Court 3.1204(b), because the declaration of notice indicates
that Louis Francis did the following:  “called
the phone number 626-677-1898 and asked to speak with Marlin Samuel.  I thereafter stated Robynn Samuel will be
filing an Ex Parte Application . . . Hearing no response I ended the call.”  (Decl. of Notice (11/19/2024) at ¶ 2.)  The declaration conspicuously does not
indicate that a person answered the phone, or that the statement by Louis
Francis was made to an answering machine/voice mail system.  The declaration is equally consistent with
simply dialing a number and speaking to a ring tone.  Even if the Court were to overlook this deficiency,
the other problems with the application require denial, as discussed below.
            The ex parte application also
fails to comply with the procedural requirements of Rule of Court 3.1201, in
that Petitioner has not provided a proposed order setting forth the relief
requested.  (Cal. R. Ct. 3.1201(5).)  This deficiency is a basis to deny the application,
as the Court should not be responsible for drafting a TRO for Petitioner. 
            Rule of Court 3.1150 provides the procedure
for requesting temporary restraining orders and preliminary injunctions.  A party seeking a preliminary injunction may proceed
by a noticed motion or by obtaining and serving an order to show cause (OSC).  (Cal. R. Ct. 3.1150(a).)  An OSC must be used when a temporary
restraining order is sought, or if the party to be enjoined has not yet made an
appearance in the case.  (Id.)
            Where an OSC and TRO are sought, the
OSC and TRO must be stated separately, with the OSC stated first.  (Cal. R. Ct. 3.1150(c).)  The restraining language must be separately stated
in the OSC and TRO, and cannot be incorporated by reference.  (Id.) 
The OSC must describe the injunction to be sought at the hearing, while the
TRO must describe the activities to be enjoined pending the hearing.  (Id.)
In the
instant case, Petitioner has not requested the setting of an OSC hearing, and
has not complied with the format requirements of Rule of Court 3.1150 by
separately setting forth the language of an OSC and TRO in the moving papers.  This procedural defect (which also occurred
in the August 28, 2024 application) requires denial of the application. 
Putting
aside the foregoing procedural defects in this ex parte application,
Plaintiff has not established a substantive basis for a TRO.  As the Court of Appeal has stated: 
Various court rules govern ex parte proceedings,
which are designed to afford relief on an essentially emergency basis. “A court
will not grant ex parte relief ‘in any but the plainest and most certain
of cases.’ ” (People ex rel. Allstate Ins. Co. v. Suh (2019) 37
Cal.App.5th 253, 257, 249 Cal.Rptr.3d 500 (People ex rel. Allstate Ins. Co.).)
Substantively, “[a]n applicant must make an affirmative factual showing in a
declaration containing competent testimony based on personal knowledge of
irreparable harm, immediate danger, or any other statutory basis for granting
relief ex parte.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1202(c) [further undesignated
rule references are to the California Rules of Court]; see also Code Civ.
Proc., § 527.) “A trial court should deny an ex parte application absent the
requisite showing.” (People ex rel. Allstate Ins. Co., at p. 257, 249
Cal.Rptr.3d 500.) Further, entry of any type of injunctive relief has been
described as a delicate judicial power, to be exercised with great caution. (Ancora-Citronelle
Corp. v. Green (1974) 41 Cal.App.3d 146, 148, 115 Cal.Rptr. 879.) This is
doubly true when granting relief on an expedited basis using an ex parte
request for a temporary restraining order rather than a properly noticed
preliminary injunction.
(Newsom v Superior Court of Sutter
County (2020) 51 Cal.App.5th 1093, 1097 (bold emphasis added).)
Petitioner
argues that injunctive relief is appropriate pursuant to Business &
Professions Code section 17200 (which is not pled as a claim in the Petition)
and the breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing (which, as pled
in the third cause of action in the Petition, does not identify any bank
accounts as the subject of that cause of action).  Thus, the legal theories that Petitioner cites
are beyond the scope of the pleadings.  As
such, Petitioner cannot establish that a likelihood of success on the merits of
her claims justifies the requested TRO.
The requested
TRO also runs headfirst into the principle that injunctive relief is generally
unavailable where a suit for damages provides an adequate remedy.  As stated by the Court of Appeal, “[g]enerally,
where damages afford an adequate remedy by way of compensation for breach of
contract, equitable relief will be denied.” 
(Thayer Plymouth Center, inc. v. Chrysler Motors Corp. (1967) 255
Cal.App.2d 300, 306.) 
The Court
notes that Petitioner argues that Respondent’s misuse of the subject bank
account exposes her to unspecified potential loss of customers and future
business opportunities, loss of confidential information, disruption of
business operations due to constrained cash flow, increasing legal costs, and
stress and anxiety.  But these are
generalized, nonspecific issues.  In the
absence of a specific evidentiary showing that Respondent’s use of the subject
account will result in actual lost opportunities, actual threat of exposure of confidential
information, or actual operational issues, the high standard for issuance of a
TRO is not met.
For the
foregoing reasons, the ex parte application is DENIED.