 Case Number:  23GDCV00376    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  E  
Hearing Date: 01/19/2024 – 8:30am
Case No:  
23GDCV00376
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: SHIN HO KIM and GENA SOON YOON v. ROBERT
YEPREMIAN
 
[PLAINTIFF’S
MSJ/MSA] 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Plaintiffs SHIN HO KIM and GENA SOON YOON
("Plaintiffs"), will and hereby do move the Court pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure Section 437c, as incorporated by reference by Code of Civil
Procedure Section 1170. 7, for an order granting summary judgment to Plaintiffs
on their First Amended Complaint for Unlawful Detainer ("FAC") and
against Defendant ROBERT YEPREMIAN ("Defendant") on the grounds that
the undisputed material facts show that: (1) Defendant failed to comply with
the terms, conditions, and covenants of the commercial Lease Agreement ("Lease")
by his repeated failure to make timely rent payments; and (2) The Lease was
never extended and expired at midnight on July 16, 2022, notwithstanding
Defendant's unconsented occupancy since then. Alternatively, Plaintiffs will
move for an order granting summary adjudication as to each of Defendant's six
affirmative defenses.
 
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party: Plaintiffs,
Shin Ho Kim and Gena Soon Yoon
 
Responding Party: No Opposition as of 1/17/2024
 
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion
Opposition Papers: No Opposition
Reply Papers: No Reply as of 1/17/2024
 
Procedural
Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013(a)): No – No Opposition
was submitted. Plaintiffs need to demonstrate that they served this motion on
Defendant’s proper address. On eCourt, Defendant’s counsel’s email address is
listed as “info@raymondhovsepianlaw.com”; however, Plaintiff served this motion
electronically to raylaw@usa.net and hovsepianlaw@live.com.
 
Further, under CRC Rule 3.1351(a), “In an unlawful
detainer action or other action brought under chapter 4 of title 3 of part 3 of
the Code of Civil Procedure (commencing with section 1159), notice of a motion
for summary judgment must be given in compliance with Code of Civil Procedure
sections 1010.6 or 1013 and 1170.7.” 
 
Since no
Opposition has been submitted, the Court would like Plaintiffs to explain how
they complied with CRC Rule 3.1351(a).
 
Timeliness
“A motion for summary judgment may be made at any time after the answer is
filed upon giving five days’ notice. Summary judgment shall be granted or
denied on the same basis as a motion under Section 437c.” (CCP §1170.7.)
 
Here, the motion
appears timely. However, the Court has concerns as to whether it was properly
served to Defendant.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of a
motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to
whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or
claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) 
 
The motion shall be granted if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(c).) In determining if the papers show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact, the court shall consider all of
the evidence set forth in the papers, except the evidence to which objections
have been made and sustained by the court, and all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence, except summary judgment shall not be granted by
the court based on inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence if
contradicted by other inferences or evidence that raise a triable issue as to
any material fact. (Id.)
 
CCP §437c(f)(1) states:
 
A party may move for summary
adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more
affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of
duty, if the party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there
is no affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one
or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs. A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it
completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for
damages, or an issue of duty.
 
(CCP §437c(f)(1).)
 
Further, CCP §437c(f)(2) provides:
 
A motion for summary adjudication
may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and
shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment. A
party shall not move for summary judgment based on issues asserted in a prior
motion for summary adjudication and denied by the court unless that party
establishes, to the satisfaction of the court, newly discovered facts or
circumstances or a change of law supporting the issues reasserted in the
summary judgment motion.
 
(CCP §437c(f)(2).
 
Further, for purposes of motions for summary judgment and
summary adjudication: 
 
A plaintiff or cross-complainant has
met his or her burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action
if that party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the
party to judgment on the cause of action. Once the plaintiff or
cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant or
cross-defendant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The defendant or
cross-defendant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings
to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead, shall set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.
 
(CCP §437c(p)(1).)
 
ANALYSIS
As a preliminary matter, this motion is confusingly
written and not a model of clarity. 
While Plaintiffs were
not required to submit a separate statement (see CCP §437c(s)), a separate
statement would have been helpful to the Court.
Plaintiffs’ motion is
confusingly written for several reasons.
First, Plaintiffs move
for summary judgment as to their unlawful-detainer action in their FAC. Plaintiffs
state that the elements of an unlawful-detainer action are as follows:
The elements of unlawful detainer based on the expiration of a
fixed-term tenancy are: (1) the plaintiff owns the property; (2) the plaintiff
leased the property to the defendant; (3) the plaintiff did not give the
defendant permission to occupy the property after the lease term ended; and (4)
the defendant still occupies the property. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1161; CACI No.
4301.)
 
Plaintiffs
cited CCP § 1161, but § 1161 appears to have seven subsections, and Plaintiffs
don’t explain which subsection of § 1161 their FAC is based on. Also,
Plaintiffs cited CACI 4301 instead of binding case law.
 
Second, despite
citing the standard above for an unlawful detainer cause of action, Plaintiffs
did not explain how the proof they submitted satisfies each element. Plaintiffs
described their evidence and discussed why their motion should be granted, but
Plaintiffs did not tie their evidence to the legal standard that they cited. Plaintiffs
simply rambled while referring to their evidence instead of stating how each
piece of evidence satisfies each element of their cause of action.
 
Based on
this lack of clarity as to how Plaintiffs’ evidence satisfies each element of
an unlawful-detainer action, the Court is left to guess as to how each piece of
evidence fits each element.
 
Assuming
Plaintiffs’ cited standard for unlawful detainer is correct, it appears as if
Plaintiffs satisfied each element of their action as follows:
 
1. The
plaintiff owns the property
Here,
based on the Salem declaration at ¶3 and Exhibit 1 and Exhibit 2, Plaintiffs
appear to own the premises based on an assignment by the prior owner.
 
2. The
plaintiff leased the property to the defendant
Defendant was a tenant in the leased property
pursuant to a 5-year fixed term commercial lease. (Salem Decl. ¶3, Ex. 1, Ex.
2.)
 
3. The
plaintiff did not give the defendant permission to occupy the property after
the lease term ended
Here, it isn’t entirely clear if Plaintiffs are bringing this action for expiration
of the fixed-term lease, or if they are bringing it because of Defendant
defaulting under the lease agreement. 
 
Generally
speaking, what appears to be Plaintiffs’ argument is that during the period of
the lease, the Plaintiffs defaulted under the lease for failing to pay rent on
time and on some occasions not making any payments. At the very least,
Plaintiffs cited Exhibit 3 and 5 to indicate that Defendant did not pay rent on
time in several instances based on Defendant’s admissions in Defendant’s RFAs. Based
on Plaintiffs’ citation to ¶20 of the lease, this appears to be a default under
the lease and therefore under ¶26 of the lease, Defendant did not have the
option to extend the lease. Plaintiffs cite other evidence for default under
the lease, but it isn’t entirely clear the point that Plaintiffs are trying to
make. 
 
The reason
it is confusing as to whether or not Plaintiffs are bringing this action for
default of the lease or based on the expiration of the fixed term lease is
because the fixed-term lease appeared to end on July 16, 2022; however, the
vasty majority of the evidence cited by Plaintiffs appear to be based on events
preceding the end of the fixed term lease.
 
(4) the
defendant still occupies the property
Here, Plaintiffs
stated that Defendant still continues to occupy the premises. (Salem Decl.
¶21.)
Further
Notes
Plaintiffs also moved
for summary adjudication as to each of Defendant’s six affirmative defenses.
Plaintiffs’ explanation as to how each of the six affirmative defenses has no
merit is difficult to follow because Plaintiffs don’t frame their arguments within
a legal context explaining what they are trying to prove or what they must
prove to establish that each affirmative defense has no merit.
TENATIVE
RULING
The Court will hear argument. 
Plaintiffs are also to
address the service issues that the Court noted. Plaintiffs are to address if the
action in their unlawful-detainer action is based on expiration of a fixed-term
lease or some other theory. 
Plaintiffs cited
extensive evidence, but it isn’t entirely clear what element they are trying to
satisfy and what type of unlawful-detainer action this is. 
The Court reminds
Plaintiffs that as the moving party, they are the ones that must satisfy their
initial burden of showing how the elements of their unlawful-detainer action have
been established and how the Defendant’s affirmative defenses have no merit.
(See CCP §437c(f) and Villa v. McFerren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 744.)
 
 
 
 