 Case Number:  22GDCV01008    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 01/19/2024 – 8:30am
Case No. 22GDCV01008
Trial Date: N/A
Case Name: MIKAYEL BADALYAN, an indiv; v. NR DEVELOPMENT, INC., a California
corporation; DOES 1-25 inclusive
[TENTATIVE
RULING– MOTION FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEES]
RELIEF REQUESTED¿ 
Plaintiff,
Mikayel Badalyan, moves the Court as the prevailing party under California
Civil Code §1717 and California Code of Civil Procedure §998 for recovery of
his attorney’s fees in the amount of $44,590.00, and non-taxable costs in the
amount of $798.47, as of September 2023, incurred in bringing this action
against Defendant NR Development. Plaintiff reserves his right to include
additional fees and costs of finalizing this Motion, preparing any reply, and
appearing at a hearing on this Motion.
 
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party:  Plaintiff, Mikayel Badalyan
Responding Party: Defendant, NR Development, Inc.
(Defendant or NR)

16/21
Day Lapse (CCP §12c and §1005(b): 
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, Rule 3.1300): 
Correct Address (CCP §1013, §1013a): 
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Reply
 
TENTATIVE RULING
For background on this tentative ruling,
the Court refers to the September 15, 2023 Minute Order. This Minute Order
explains why the parties are here today.
 
Plaintiff is moving for $44,590.00 for
recovery of attorney’s fees and non-taxable costs in the amount of $798.47.
 
In the Court’s prior Minute Order on
9/15/2023, the Court denied Plaintiff’s request for attorneys’ fees based on
the issues it had with Plaintiff’s counsel’s declarations, the lack of a
declaration from Badalayan, and the issue of whether Plaintiff can recover
attorney’s fees when his wife is representing him and the Plaintiff and wife own
an equal partnership law firm.
 
The Court will hear argument, but it
tentatively plans to GRANT Plaintiff’s motion for the reasons set for below.
 
Both parties agree that an attorney cannot
recover attorney’s fees when representing oneself in propria persona. 
 
However, the situation arising here is
different in that Plaintiff, an attorney, seeks to recover attorney’s fees for
a matter in which his wife allegedly represented him as an attorney and the
Plaintiff and wife are equal partners in their law firm.
 
In the Court’s 9/15/2023 Minute Order, the
Court was concerned that attorney’s fees in this scenario are barred based on Gorman v. Tassajara Dev. Corp. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 44, 95.
 
As stated in the 9/15/2023 Minute Order:
 
A situation somewhat similar to the one
presented here appears to have been addressed in Gorman v. Tassajara Dev. Corp.
(2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 44, 95: 
 
We can certainly imagine cases in which a
true attorney-client relationship exists between spouses. However, in this
case, husband and wife sued for and obtained recovery for the defective
construction of their residence. There is no indication that Cheng suffered any
damages apart from those suffered by her husband. Their interests in this
matter appear to be joint and indivisible. There is no claim that Gorman spent
extra time in this case representing his wife in addition to the time he spent
representing himself. There is no claim that each of them owes half his fees.
Their community estate is liable for their contracts. (Fam.Code, § 910, subd.
(a).) Since Gorman's billable hours appear to be entirely attributable to
representing his common interests with Cheng, we conclude that the rule of
Trope applies to this situation. 
 
(178 Cal.App.4th at 95, citing Trope v.
Katz (1995) 11 Cal.4th 274, 292.) 
 
While Ms. Sinanyan was not a Plaintiff in
this matter, she is Mr. Badalyan’s wife and law partner: their interests appear
to be identically aligned, as in Gorman—and, therefore, as in Gorman, the rule
of Trope should apply.
 
(Minute Order 9/15/2023, p.17.)
 
However, based on Plaintiff’s current
motion, Plaintiff extensively explains on pages 5-10 why Gorman is
distinguishable from the instant scenario that we have here. 
 
Opposition barely addresses how Plaintiff
was able to distinguish Gorman in any type of convincing manner.
 
The Court is inclined to agree with
Plaintiff based on how Plaintiff distinguished Gorman. 
 
In Gorman, defendant Tassajara
Development Corporation (contractor) promised by written contract to serve as
general contractor for the construction of a residence for plaintiffs John
Gorman (Gorman) and Jennifer Cheng (Cheng), who were husband and wife. (Gorman
v. Tassajara Dev. Corp. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 44, 52.) In Gorman, Gorman
was an attorney who was the chief executive officer, chief financial officer,
president, and secretary of the Law Firm of Gorman & Miller PC. (Id.)
Gorman filed suit on behalf of Gorman and Cheng alleging defective construction
of their residence. (Id.) The court of appeal stated how there was no
error for disallowing recovery of any fees for plaintiffs generated by Gorman
personally.
 
In explaining this, the Gorman court
stated that it was settled that Gorman, the client, would not be able to recover
attorney fees had he been represented by Gorman, a sole practitioner. (Gorman
at 93.) It also stated that it was settled that if the Gorman firm had
represented itself in litigation, it would not be able to recover for its own
attorney fees. (Id.)
 
Part of the reasoning in Gorman depended
on the attorney-client relationship. The Gorman court noted that in Gilbert,
a member of a law firm who is represented by other attorneys in the firm
can recover attorney fees. (See Gorman at 96.)
 
However, with respect to whether Gorman
could recover fees for work he personally performed for him and his wife, the
court noted :
 
We can certainly imagine cases in which a
true attorney-client relationship exists between spouses. However, in this
case, husband and wife sued for and obtained recovery for the defective
construction of their residence. There is no indication that Cheng suffered any
damages apart from those suffered by her husband. Their interests in this
matter appear to be joint and indivisible. There is no claim that Gorman spent
extra time in this case representing his wife in addition to the time he spent
representing himself. There is no claim that each of them owes half his fees.
Their community estate is liable for their contracts. (Fam.Code, § 910, subd.
(a).) Since Gorman's billable hours appear to be entirely
attributable to representing his common interests with Cheng, we conclude that
the rule of Trope applies to this situation.
 
(Gorman v. Tassajara Development Corp. (2009)
178 Cal.App.4th 44, 95.)
 
Here, Plaintiff adequately distinguished Gorman
on several grounds. 
 
Plaintiff noted that, unlike in Gorman,
where husband and wife were both Plaintiffs, here, husband and wife are not
both plaintiffs. 
 
Further, Plaintiff explained that while in
Gorman the husband and wife’s interests were joint and indivisible, that
is not the case here. 
 
Here, Plaintiff, and not his wife, was the
Defendant in the prior case that led to this case. In the prior case where the
settlement agreement was signed, Plaintiff himself was the Defendant and
Plaintiff himself signed the settlement agreement. Plaintiff’s wife was not in
the prior case, nor did she sign the prior settlement agreement. In this case,
where Plaintiff is suing for breach of the settlement agreement in the prior
case, Plaintiff’s wife would not have standing because she was not a party to
the settlement agreement in the other case. 
 
Therefore, it does not appear as if  Plaintiff and wife in the instant scenario
have joint and indivisible interests in the same manner as the plaintiffs in Gorman
where husband and wife both brought the lawsuit. 
 
Further, Plaintiff, and not his wife, is
the one named in the 998 offer. 
 
Additionally, while Gorman noted that
there is no indication that Cheng suffered any damages apart from those
suffered by her husband, that is not the case here. Here, Plaintiff is the only
one who suffered the damages because it was Plaintiff’s breach-of-contract
claim based on failure to be paid according to the settlement agreement.
Plaintiff’s wife would not have standing/damages from that settlement agreement
because she was not a party to the settlement agreement.
 
While the Court is inclined to agree with
Plaintiff that he can recover attorney’s fees, there does appear to be a
confusing wrinkle based on the facts that the Court will need to hear argument
on.
 
That wrinkle is as follows: In the prior
case (22BBCV00309), Plaintiff here was named a Defendant as an individual. His
wife was not named as a defendant. In the prior case, a settlement agreement was
signed. Plaintiff here signed that settlement agreement as Mikayel Badalyan,
Co-Defendant. However, as noted in the Opposition, in the prior case’s
settlement agreement in which Mikayel was to receive payment, the payment was
directed in the settlement agreement to be issued to Badalyan Sinanyan APC,
which is Plaintiff’s firm. 
 
Opposition argues that there is no
tangible corporate or financial separation between Plaintiff/husband/business
partner and his counsel/wife/business partner. 
 
Here, the Court tentatively disagrees with
the Opposition. 
 
The Court disagrees because even though
the settlement agreement directed Badalyan’s payment to be made to Badalyan
Sinanyan APC in the settlement agreement, it was still only Plaintiff that
signed the settlement agreement. That is, Badalyan Sinanyan APC was not a party
to the settlement agreement even though payment for Plaintiff was directed to
be paid to Badalyan Sinanyan APC. As a hypothetical example, if two parties
signed a settlement agreement, and Party A directed Party B to send Party’s A’s
money per the settlement agreement to an account at Wells Fargo, and Party A
found that party B breached the agreement, to the Court’s understanding, Wells
Fargo would not have standing to sue for breach of contract. Wells Fargo was
simply the bank that was supposed to receive the funds for Party A, but Wells
Fargo was not a party to the agreement. The claim would still lie with the
parties that signed the agreement, not with the entities where the parties directed
their money to be paid per the settlement agreement.
 
Here, Badalyan Sinanyan APC was not a
party to the settlement agreement in the prior case, nor was it a party to the 998
Offer in the instant case. Therefore, it appears as if neither Plaintiff’s wife,
nor Badalyan APC, would have standing to sue for breach of the settlement
agreement, since she/it were not parties to that settlement agreement. While
the Court acknowledges that it does appear that it could be legally questionable/suspect
that Plaintiff could potentially be comingling personal funds with firm funds
by directing a personal settlement agreement to pay his personal funds from a personal
lawsuit to his law firm, that issue is not before the Court – or to phrase it
differently, this Court is not an enforcement agency like the IRS that brings
its own actions when violations of the law occur.
 
The Court will hear argument, but it
tentatively appears that Plaintiff successfully distinguished Gorman and
explained why Plaintiff can recover attorney fees. Further, Plaintiff’s
attached declarations to the motion seem to cure the issues that the Court
previously brought up at the prior hearing.
 
General Legal Standard - Lodestar and
Multiplier 
“A trial court assessing attorney
fees begins with a touchstone or lodestar figure, based on the careful
compilation of the time spent and reasonable hourly compensation of each
attorney involved in the presentation of the case.” (Christian Research
Institute v. Alnor (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1315, 1321 [internal quotations
omitted].)  “The reasonableness of attorney fees is within the discretion
of the trial court, to be determined from a consideration of such factors as
the nature of the litigation, the complexity of the issues, the experience and
expertise of counsel and the amount of time involved.  [citation] The
court may also consider whether the amount requested is based upon unnecessary
or duplicative work.”  (Wilkerson v. Sullivan (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th
443, 448.)  “The basis for the trial court's calculation must be the
actual hours counsel has devoted to the case, less those that result from
inefficient or duplicative use of time.” (Horsford v. Board Of Trustees Of California State University (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th
359, 395.) “The law is clear, however, that an award of attorney fees may
be based on counsel's declarations, without production of detailed time
records.”  (Raining Data Corp. v. Barrenechea (2009) 175
Cal.App.4th 1363, 1375.) “...[T]he verified time statements of the attorneys,
as officers of the court, are entitled to credence in the absence of a clear
indication the records are erroneous.” (Horsford v. Board of Trustees of
California State University (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 359, 396.)  The
Court has the discretion to reduce the amount of fees (or deny recovery
altogether) when the amount of attorney fees is inflated. (Serrano v. Unruh (1982)
32 Cal.3d 621, 635; Meister v. Regents of the Univ. of California (1998)
67 Cal. App. 4th 437, 455). 
 
In setting the hourly rate for an attorney fees award,
courts are entitled to consider the rate of “fees customarily charged by that
attorney and others in the community for similar work.” (Bihun v. AT&T
Information Systems, Inc. (1993) 13 Cal. App. 4th 976, 997 [affirming rate
of $450 per hour], overruled on other grounds by Lakin v. Watkins Associated
Indus. (1993) 6 Cal. 4th 644, 664; see also Heritage Pacific Financial,
LLC v. Monroy (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 972, 1009 [“[R]ate determinations in
other cases, particularly those setting a rate for the plaintiffs' attorney,
are satisfactory evidence of the prevailing market rate.”].)    


The Court in Serrano IV also stated that fees
associated with preparing the motion to recover attorneys’ fees are
recoverable. (Serrano v.
Unruh (1982) 32 Cal.3d 621, 624
(Serrano IV).)

The
lodestar amount “may be adjusted by the court based on factors including (1)
the novelty and difficulty of the questions involved, (2) the skill displayed
in presenting them, (3) the extent to which the nature of the litigation
precluded other employment by the attorneys, [and] (4) the contingent nature of
the fee award.”¿ (Bernardi¿v. County of Monterey¿(2008) 167 Cal.App.4th
1379, 1399 [citing Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 1132].)¿ The
purpose of any lodestar and the increase thereto “is intended to approximate
market-level compensation for such services” and is entirely discretionary.¿
(Id.)¿ “The purpose of a fee enhancement is not to reward attorneys for
litigating certain kinds of cases, but to fix a reasonable fee in a particular
action.”¿ (Weeks v. Baker & McKenzie¿(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1128,
1171-72.)
“The trial court is neither foreclosed from, nor
required to, award a multiplier.” (Mikhaeilpoor v. BMW of North America, LLC
(2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 240, 247 citing Montgomery v. Bio-Med Specialties,
Inc. (1986) 183 Cal.App.3d 1292, 1297.)
Reasonableness
 
As to the reasonableness of the attorney’s
fees and costs request, the Court notes that Defendant did not appear to object
to costs in the opposition. 
 
Further, as far as some of the attacks in
the Opposition such as Plaintiff providing no evidence that this is in fact his
wife’s hourly rate, Defendant cites no legal authority that this must be
provided. 
 
“The law is clear, however, that an award of attorney
fees may be based on counsel's declarations, without production of detailed
time records.” (Raining Data Corp. v. Barrenechea (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th
1363, 1375.) “...[T]he verified time statements of the attorneys, as officers
of the court, are entitled to credence in the absence of a clear indication the
records are erroneous.” (Horsford v. Board of Trustees of California State
University (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 359, 396.)
Further, Defendant’s entire section on punitive
damages makes almost no sense to the Court, and the Court does not find this
argument convincing.
Further, Defendant’s argument that Plaintiff has not
really incurred any attorney’s is not persuasive. 
As stated in Gorman:
The appellate
court in Gilbert found Trope distinguishable.
“[A] member of a law firm who is represented by other attorneys in the firm
‘incurs' fees within the meaning of Civil Code section 1717. Either the
represented attorney will experience a reduced draw from the partnership (or a
reduced salary from the professional corporation) to account for
the amount of time his or her partners or colleagues have specifically devoted
to his or her representation, or absorb a share of the reduction in other
income the firm experiences because of the time spent on the case. This is
different from the ‘opportunity costs' the attorney loses while he or she is
personally involved in the same case, because the economic detriment is caused
not by the expenditure of his or her own time, but by other attorneys working
on his or her behalf.” (Gilbert, supra, 87 Cal.App.4th at
p. 221, 104 Cal.Rptr.2d 461.) “There can be no question an attorney-client
relationship is also present where an attorney litigant is represented by other
attorneys in his or her own firm.” (Id. at p. 222, 104
Cal.Rptr.2d 461.) Finally, there is no unfairness in allowing an attorney
to recover for work done by others in his or her firm. “[L]ike a corporation represented
by in-house counsel, the represented attorney seeks to recover fees for work
done by others on his behalf. Indeed, it would be inequitable in the extreme to
permit Gernsbacher to recover fees incurred by outside counsel, but deny him such
recovery merely because his counsel are members of the same law firm as
he.” (Id. at p. 223, 104 Cal.Rptr.2d 461.)
 
(Gorman v.
Tassajara Development Corp. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 44, 96.)
 
In conclusion, the Court is inclined to
grant this motion, but it will hear argument.
 
 