 Case Number:  23GDCV00440    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date:  01/19/2024 – 8:30am
Case No:23GDCV00440                                          
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: DAVID HERNANDEZ, a minor, by and through his
Guardian Ad Litem DAIZY VILLALVAZO v. CAMP BOB WALDORF, unknown entity; JEWISH
BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS ASSOCIATION OF LOS ANGELES, a California corporation;
JOHN DOE, an individual; and DOES 1 to 100, inclusive
 
[TENTATIVE RULING ON
DEFENDANT’S DEMURRER]
Moving Party:  Defendant, Jewish Big Brothers Big Sisters
Association of Los Angeles dba Camp Bob Waldorf (erroneously sued as two separate
entities; “JBBBSLA” or “Defendant”)
Responding Party: Plaintiff,
David Hernandez, a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem Daizy Villalvazo
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendant generally and specially demurs under CCP §430.10(e) and (f) to
Plaintiff’s unverified Complaint on the following grounds:
 
1. Fourth Action for Negligence fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against JBBBSLA (C.C.P. §
430.10(e)); 
 
2. Fourth Action for Negligence against JBBBSLA
is fatally vague, ambiguous and uncertain, vague and ambiguous (C.C.P. §
430.10(f)); 
 
3. Fifth Action for Negligence fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against JBBBSLA (C.C.P. §
430.10(e)); and 
 
4. Fifth Action for Negligence against JBBBSLA
is fatally vague, ambiguous and uncertain, vague and ambiguous (C.C.P. §
430.10(f)). 
 
This Demurrer will be based upon this Notice,
the attached Demurrer, the attached Memorandum of Points and Authorities, the
Declaration of Sherri Matta, and exhibits therein filed and served concurrently
herewith, upon all papers and pleadings on file herein, and upon such further
oral and/or documentary evidence as may be presented at the time of the
hearing.
 
Procedural
16/21
Day Lapse (CCP §12c and §1005(b)): Ok
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, Rule 3.1300): Ok
Correct Address (CCP §1013, §1013a): Ok
 
Moving Papers: Notice/Demurrer
 
Opposition Papers: Opposition; Plaintiff’s Objections to Evidence
Submitted
 
Reply Papers: Reply


BACKGROUND
Plaintiff filed the instant action on 03/03/2023.
 
Plaintiff alleges that on or about July 19, 2019, Plaintiff
was an enrolled camper at the subject premises and that during Plaintiff’s
stay, Plaintiff was bullied for his appearance and/or birthmark and eating
habits by Defendant John Doe. (Compl. ¶8.) [Defendant John Doe is alleged to be
an individual and direct employee of Defendant, JBBBSLA. (Compl. ¶4.)] On said
date, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant John Doe suddenly, and without warning,
physically and verbally attacked and assaulted Plaintiff with such force that
Plaintiff suffered injuries and damages. (Compl. ¶8.)
 
The Complaint alleges five causes of action. The first three
causes of action for (1) Assault, (2) Battery, and (3) Intentional Infliction
of Emotional Distress, are alleged only against Defendant John Doe. The fourth cause
of action for Negligence is alleged against all Defendants. The fifth cause of
action for Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention is alleged against
Defendants Camp Bob Waldorf, unknown entity; and Jewish Big Brothers Big
Sisters Association of Los Angeles.
 
The moving papers note that Camp Bob Waldorf/Jewish Big
Brothers Big Sisters Association of Los Angeles was erroneously sued as two
separate entities. Moving Defendant notes that their proper name is Jewish Big
Brothers Big Sisters Association of Los Angeles dba Camp Bob Waldorf
(“JBBBSLA”). Therefore, for purposes of this demurrer, the Court will construe
the Defendants in the Complaint to be JBBBSLA, John Doe, and Does 1 to 100.
 
For the instant demurrer, Defendant, JBBBSLA demurs to the
fourth cause of action for negligence and the fifth cause of action for
Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention. Defendant demurred to both these
causes of action on grounds of failure to state sufficient facts and uncertainty/vagueness/ambiguity.
The Court notes that in Defendant’s Notice of Demurrer, Defendant referred to
both the fourth and fifth causes of action as Negligence; however, it appears
as the Defendant intended to refer to the fifth cause of action as Negligent
Hiring, Supervision, and Retention based on the arguments presented in the
demurrer.
 
MEET AND CONFER
A party filing a
demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) “The parties
shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five
days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party
shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a
responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a
demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a
good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why
the parties could not meet and confer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a)(2).) 
Failure
to sufficiently meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a)(4).)
Defendant
submitted the declaration of Sherri Matta. It appears as if Matta attempted to
meet and confer by emailing a letter, sending a follow up email, and leaving
phone messages, but Matta never heard from Plaintiff’s counsel. (Matta Decl.
¶¶2-4.)
Since
failure to sufficiently meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer, the Court will still hear this demurrer.
 
DEMURRER LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda, (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.) The
court “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded,
but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law ….” (Berkley
v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the
pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters; therefore, it
lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are
judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)  
The general rule is that the plaintiff need only
allege ultimate facts, not evidentiary facts. (Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) “All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter
of pleading … is that his complaint set forth the essential facts of the case
with reasonable precision and with sufficient particularity to acquaint the
defendant with the nature, source and extent of his cause of action.” (Rannard
v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp. (1945) 26 Cal.2d 149, 156-157.)  
On
demurrer, a trial court has an independent duty to “determine whether or not
the … complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action under any
legal theory.” (Das v. Bank of America, N.A. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727,
734.)  Demurrers do not lie as to only
parts of causes of action, where some valid claim is alleged but “must dispose
of an entire cause of action to be sustained.” (Poizner v. Fremont General
Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.) “Generally it is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer
without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect
can be cured by amendment.” (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
349.)
Demurrer – Uncertainty
A special demurrer for
uncertainty, CCP section 430.10(f), is disfavored and will only be sustained
where the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e.,
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or
claims are directed against him/her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat
vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)
ANALYSIS
Fourth Cause of Action – Negligence
The instant cause of action is
alleged against all Defendants, and the demurring Defendant here is JBBBSLA.
“To state a cause of action for
negligence, a plaintiff must allege (1) the defendant owed the plaintiff a duty
of care, (2) the defendant breached that duty, and (3)
the breach proximately caused the plaintiff’s damages or injuries.” (Lueras
v. BAC Home Loans Servicing, LP (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 49, 62 citing Thomas
v. Stenberg (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 654, 662.)

Element 1 – Defendant owed the
plaintiff a duty of care
“Whether a duty of care exists is a
question of law to be determined on a case-by-case basis.” (Lueras v. BAC
Home Loans Servicing, LP (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 49, 62 citing Parsons v.
Crown Disposal Co. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 456, 472.)
Further, as stated in Parsons:
Some of the
considerations that courts have employed in various contexts to determine
the existence and scope of duty are: “the foreseeability of harm to the
plaintiff, the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, the
closeness of the connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury
suffered, the moral blame attached to the defendant's conduct, the policy of
preventing future harm, the extent of the burden to the defendant and
consequences to the community of imposing a duty to exercise care with
resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost, and prevalence of
insurance for the risk involved.
 
(Parsons
v. Crown Disposal Co. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 456, 472-73.)
 
Additionally,
and particularly relevant to the instant Complaint, Doe v. Superior Court states
in relevant part:
 
In addition
to the duty to act reasonably in one's own conduct, one
may have a duty to control the conduct of a third party
when “the defendant stands in some special relationship to
either the person whose conduct needs to be controlled or in
a relationship to the foreseeable victim of that conduct....” (Tarasoff,
supra, 17 Cal.3d at p. 435, 131 Cal.Rptr. 14, 551 P.2d 334.) Even if
a special relationship exists, a defendant's duty of care does
not necessarily include the obligation to act proactively to disclose the possibility
of future harm from the third party. 
 
(Doe v.
Superior Court (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 239, 245.)
 
Further noted in Doe v. Superior Court - a
case in which the parents of a church summer camp participant brought an action
against the church for assault and battery; negligence; negligence per se;
negligent hiring, training, supervision, and retention; negligent and
intentional infliction of emotional distress; and negligent and intentional
concealment – the Court of Appeal expanded on special relationships as the
basis for duty and explained:
 
Camp has special relationships not
only with “the person whose conduct needs to be controlled” (Woodhouse) but
also “the foreseeable victim[s] of that conduct” (minor and parents). (Tarasoff,
supra, 17 Cal.3d at p. 435, 131 Cal.Rptr. 14, 551 P.2d 334.) As to
Woodhouse, the employer-employee relationship imposes
a duty to exercise reasonable care to control the actions of the
employee. (See Mary M. v. City of Los Angeles (1991) 54 Cal.3d
202, 208, 285 Cal.Rptr. 99, 814 P.2d 1341 [“Under the doctrine of
respondeat superior, an employer may be held vicariously liable for torts
committed by an employee within the scope of employment.”]. As to parents and
minor, Camp acted as a daycare provider, creating
a special relationship which imposed
a duty to exercise reasonable care to prevent harm to minor
while attending the summer camp. (Fowler v. Seaton (1964)
61 Cal.2d 681, 688, 39 Cal.Rptr. 881, 394 P.2d 697 (Fowler ) [operator
of for-profit preschool nursery had “duty to exercise care in the
supervision of the infants in her school, and to keep them under supervision at
all times that they were at the nursery”].)
 
(Doe v.
Superior Court (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 239, 246.)
 
Here, the
Complaint alleges as follows in relevant part:
 
32.
Plaintiff re-alleges each and every allegation contained in the above
Paragraphs 1 through 3 1, and by this reference incorporates said paragraphs as
though fully set forth herein. 
 
33.
Defendants, and each of them, had an affirmative legal duty to use due care for
the protection of Plaintiff against unreasonable risk of harm. 
 
34.
Defendants, and each of them, formed a special relationship between the camp
employees and/or camp counselors and subject premises resulting in the
affirmative duty on the camp employees and/or camp counselors to take all
reasonable steps to protect the occupants of the subject premises. 
 
35.
Additionally, because of the special relationship between Plaintiff and the
subject premises, Defendants CAMP BOB WALDORF, unknown entity; JEWISH BIG
BROTHERS BIG SISTERS ASSOCIATION OF LOS ANGELES, a California corporation; and
DOES 1 TO 100, inclusive, had a duty to control Defendant JOHN DOE and protect
Plaintiff from physical and mental harm.
 
4. Plaintiff
is informed and believes, and based upon such information and belief, alleges
that at all times relevant hereto Defendant JOHN DOE , an individual and
resident of the County of Los Angeles, California and a direct employee of
Defendants CAMP BOB WALDORF, unknown entity; JEWISH BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS
ASSOCIATION OF LOS ANGELES, a California corporation; and DOES 1 TO 100,
inclusive.
 
8. On or
about July 19,2019, Plaintiff was an enrolled camper at the subject premises.
During Plaintiffs stay at the subject premises, Plaintiff was bullied and/or
humiliated for his appearance and/or birthmark and eating habits by Defendant
JOHN DOE. On said date, as Plaintiff participated in camp activities, Defendant
JOHN DOE, suddenly and without warning, physically and verbally attacked and
assaulted Plaintiff with such force that Plaintiff suffered injuries and
damages.
 
(Compl. ¶¶
4, 8, 32-35.)
 
Based on the allegations of the Complaint, Plaintiff
successfully alleged a duty to use due care for the protection of Plaintiff
based on the special relationship between Defendant and the Plaintiff.
 
Element 2 – defendant breached that duty
In relevant part, the Complaint alleged:
 
Defendants,
and each of them, breached their duty of care for the protection of Plaintiff
when Defendant JOHN DOE in the presence of others, aggressively approached
Plaintiff on the subject premises and threatened to touch and/or grab Plaintiff
in a harmful manner such that it reasonably appeared that Defendant JOHN DOE
was about to carry out the threat; Defendant JOHN DOE, suddenly and without
warning, physically and verbally attacked and assaulted Plaintiff with such
force that Plaintiff suffered injuries and damages.
 
(Compl.
¶36.)
 
Based on these allegations, Plaintiff sufficiently alleged
the element of breach of duty.
 
Element 3 – the breach proximately caused the plaintiff’s
damages or injuries
In relevant part, the Complaint alleged:
 
37. As a
direct result of the breach of their affirmative duty to protect Plaintiff from
physical or psychological injury while at the subject premises, the malfeasance
and/or nonfeasance of Defendants, and each of them, was the proximate or legal
cause of Plaintiffs injuries. 
 
38. The
conduct of Defendants, and each of them, was a substantial factor in causing
Plaintiffs harm. 
 
39. As a
result of the conduct of Defendants, and each of them, the Plaintiff was
physically and psychologically damaged, incurred medical bills, sustained
disability and had to retain an attorney and has incurred legal costs in
connection therewith in order to prosecute this action.
 
(Compl.
¶¶37-39.)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING FOURTH CAUSE OF ACTION NEGLIGENCE AS TO JBBBSLA
Plaintiff successfully alleged the elements of negligence.
 
Defendant
argued in its moving papers that “Plaintiff generally alleges JBBBSLA’s
negligence liability based on John Doe’s alleged intentional acts.” (Def. Mot.
p. 5.) Defendant also argued that “Moreover, there are no facts explain the
basis for attributing liability to JBBSLA for its employee’s alleged
misconduct. It is unclear from the pleadings whether Plaintiff believes that
JBBSLA is somehow vicariously liable for its employee’s alleged conduct or
whether Plaintiff believes JBBSLA engaged in some conduct distinct from that of
its employee that constitutes the negligence. Absent such facts, the pleading
are fatally uncertain and fail to put JBBSLA on notice of the case against it.”
(Def. Mot. p.6.)
 
The Court
does not find the arguments by Defendant to be persuasive. First, Plaintiff
does not appear to be alleging JBBBSLA’s negligence based on John Doe’s alleged
intentional acts. Plaintiff appears to be alleging negligence based on
Defendant, JBBBSLA’s acts, not John Doe’s. Plaintiff alleged that Defendant
breach their duty of care for the protection of Plaintiff. (See Compl. ¶36.) Therefore,
this Complaint appears to allege that Defendant was directly negligent based on
Defendant’s act of breaching the duty of care to protect, not based on John
Doe’s act. Movant appears to be confused that Plaintiff is alleging that
Defendant is vicariously liable for employee’s alleged assault/battery;
however, Plaintiff did not allege as such. Defendant’s argument that no facts
indicate the manner or means by which Plaintiff was allegedly bullied,
humiliated, or assaulted are also unavailing and not on point. 
 
Defendant’s
demurrer on grounds of failure to state sufficient facts and uncertainty to the
fourth cause of action as alleged against moving Defendant is OVERRULED.
 
Fifth Cause
of Action – Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention
“California case law recognizes the theory that an employer
can be liable to a third person for negligently hiring, supervising, or
retaining an unfit employee. [Citation omitted.] Liability is based upon the
facts that the employer knew or should have known that hiring the employee
created a particular risk or hazard and that particular harm materializes.
[Citation omitted.]” (Doe v. Capital Cities (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1038,
1054.)
 
“Liability
for negligent…retention of an employee is one of direct liability for
negligence, not vicarious liability. [Citation.]” (Phillips v. TLC Plumbing,
Inc. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1133, 1139-40 citing Delfino v. Agilent
Technologies, Inc. (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 790, 815.)
 
As to the
fifth cause of action in the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges:
 
40.
Plaintiff re-alleges each and every allegation contained in the above
Paragraphs 1 through 39 and by this reference incorporates said paragraphs as
though fully set forth herein. 
 
41.Defendants
CAMP BOB WALDORF, unknown entity; JEWISH BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS ASSOCIATION
OF LOS ANGELES, a California corporation; and DOES 1 TO 100, inclusive, knew or
should have known that Defendant JOHN DOE was incompetent and unfit and that
his incompetence and unfitness created a particular risk to others, including
Plaintiff. 
 
42.Defendant
JOHN DOE'S incompetence and unfitness harmed Plaintiff. 
 
43.As a
result of the conduct of Defendants, and each of them, the Plaintiff was
physically and psychologically damaged, incurred medical bills, sustained
disability and had to retain an attorney and has incurred legal costs in
connection therewith in order to prosecute this action. 
 
44.
Defendants CAMP BOB WALDORF, unknown entity; JEWISH BIG BROTHERS BIG SISTERS
ASSOCIATION OF LOS ANGELES, a California corporation; and DOES 1 TO 100,
inclusive, negligence in hiring, supervising and/or retaining Defendant JOHN
DOE was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiffs harm.
 
(Compl.
¶40-44.)
 
In moving papers, Defendant argues that these allegations
are insufficient because they allege in a conclusory manner that Defendant knew
or should have known that John Doe was incompetent and unfit, but they don’t
allege any factual basis that Defendant had knowledge of any prior
inappropriate behavior by John Doe or that Defendant had any reason to know
that John Doe was unfit to work as a counselor.
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff cites several cases that don’t
necessarily help Plaintiff. The cases generally pertain to how an employer can
be held liable for negligent hiring, supervision, and retention. As to that
argument, the Court agrees. 
 
However, in Opposition, Plaintiff did not cite any cases as
to what must be alleged at the pleading stage, nor did Opposition cite any
cases that it is sufficient to simply allege Defendant knew or should have
known that John Doe was incompetent and unfit.
 
In Reply, Defendant cited to Doe v. Capital Cities
(1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1038, to support its argument that courts have sustained
demurrers to claims for negligent hiring, supervision, and retention on much more
substantial allegations than those alleged here. 
 
In relevant part of Doe v. Capital Cities, an
aspiring actor, who allegedly was drugged and then gang-raped by a casting
director and four other men one Sunday at the director's home, sued the
director, the four other men, and the casting director's employer, and one of
the actions asserted against the casting director’s employer was negligent
hiring. Plaintiff asserted that ABC’s (casting director’s employer) negligence
in either hiring or supervising Marshall (casting director) resulted in the
sexual assault and on that basis ABC can be held liable. In this case, the
Court explained as follows:
 
 Plaintiff
alleged that ABC knew or should have known that “Marshall engaged in the
purchase and use of serious, mind-altering illegal drugs, that defendant
Marshall used his position at ABC to gain sexual favors, and that use of a
'casting couch' is common within the entertainment industry.”8 Given
the harm that plaintiff suffered—a brutal sexual assault after having been
surreptitiously drugged—the pleading allegations are insufficient to allege a
cause of action. ABC's knowledge that Marshall personally used “serious
mind-altering drugs” does not equate with knowledge that he would
surreptitiously use drugs to place a prospective employee into a situation of
helplessness before violently assaulting him. Nor does ABC's knowledge that
Marshall used his position “to gain sexual favors” have material relevance to this
matter. Use of the word “gain” is consistent with the quid pro quo form of
sexual harassment9 but that is not the basis of plaintiff's
claim. The “casting couch” allegation suffers from a similar infirmity. That
is, knowledge that Marshall used his position of authority to extract or to
coerce *1055 sexual favors is not knowledge that he would
first drug and then attack a potential employee. In the context of negligent
hiring, those are qualitatively different situations. In sum, the cornerstone
of a negligent hiring theory is the risk that the employee will act in a
certain way and the employee does act in that way. Plaintiff has failed to
allege those necessary facts.
 
(Doe v.
Capital Cities (1996) 50 Cal.App.1038, 1054-55.)
 
The Court
finds Defendant’s argument persuasive. Plaintiff only alleged that Defendant
knew or should have known that Defendant John Doe was incompetent and unfit and
that his incompetence and unfitness created a particular risk to others,
including Plaintiff. (Compl. ¶41.) 
 
Liability is
based upon the facts that the employer knew or should have known that hiring
the employee created a particular risk or hazard and that particular harm
materializes. [Citation omitted.]” (Doe v. Capital Cities (1996) 50
Cal.App.4th 1038, 1054.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff did not allege employer knew or should have known that hiring the
employee created a particular risk or hazard, because Plaintiff did not allege what
particular risk or hazard was created by hiring the employee, and Plaintiff did
not allege that that particular harm materialized. 
 
In
Opposition, the Plaintiff argued that demurring party is in possession of the
information related to its hiring, supervision, and retention of Defendant John
Doe. The Court has two problems with this argument. First, the Plaintiff cited
no case law that this issue allows for the Court to overrule the demurrer. Second,
while the Court generally understands what Plaintiff is arguing, and even if Plaintiff
cited a case that allows for relaxed pleading standards because the Defendant
is in possession of this information, Plaintiff still did not plead according
to Doe v. Capital Cities with respect to alleging what particular risk
or hazard was created and that that particular risk/harm materialized.
 
“It is often said that leave to amend a complaint
should be liberally granted, particularly with respect to a party’s initial
complaint.” (City of Torrance v. Southern California
Edison Company (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 1071, 1091.) “The policy favoring
amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend
can be justified.” (City of Torrance v. Southern California Edison Company (2021)
61 Cal.App.5th 1071, 1091 citing Howard v. County of San Diego (2010)
184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428.) “If there is any reasonable possibility that
plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error and an abuse of
discretion to sustain the demurrer without leave to amend.” (City of
Torrance v. Southern California Edison Company (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 1071,
1091 citing Campaign for Quality Education v. State of California (2016)
246 Cal.App.4th 896, 904.)
 
Plaintiff’s Opposition argues that they could make
additional and more specific factual allegations to support their causes of
action.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING FIFTH CAUSE OF ACTION
“California case law recognizes the theory that an employer
can be liable to a third person for negligently hiring, supervising, or
retaining an unfit employee. [Citation omitted.] Liability is based upon the
facts that the employer knew or should have known that hiring the employee
created a particular risk or hazard and that particular harm materializes.
[Citation omitted.]” (Doe v. Capital Cities (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1038,
1054.)
 
Here, Plaintiff
did not allege employer knew or should have known that hiring the employee
created a particular risk or hazard, because Plaintiff did not allege what
particular risk or hazard was created by hiring the employee, and Plaintiff did
not allege that that particular harm materialized. Plaintiff simply alleged
Defendant knew or should have known Defendant John Doe was incompetent and
unfit and that his incompetence and unfitness created a particular risk to
others, including Plaintiff. Defendant cited to Doe v. Capital Cities (1996)
50 Cal.App.1038, 1054-55 in it’s Reply, and this case appears to support
Defendant’s argument for sustaining the demurrer. 
 
Defendant’s
demurrer to the fifth cause of action for failure to state sufficient facts is
SUSAINTED with LEAVE TO AMEND GRANTED. Plaintiff is to file and serve any
amended complaint within 20 days of this order.
 

 