 This is an action in which Plaintiff Latoya S. Redd claims that Defendants failed to pay her $35,489.51 attorneys’ fee lien with settlement funds from case no. YC072873.  Set Aside DefaultOn July 1, 2024, the Court entered defaults for Defendants Thomas Kovich and William R. Johnson.Defendants Thomas Kovich and William R. Johnson now seek to set aside their defaults.  The discretionary provision of Code Civ. Proc. § 473(b) provides, “The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  Application for this relief . . . shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”  The statute is liberally construed in order to give effect to the policy favoring resolution of disputes on their merits.  (Hopkins & Carley v. Gens (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1410.)  To be entitled to relief under the statute, the moving party must demonstrate a satisfactory excuse for his or her default, as well as diligence in seeking relief after discovery of the default.  Whether the moving party has carried this burden is a question to be resolved in the discretion of the trial court.  (Ibid.)For relief to be warranted, any mistake must be something other than professional incompetence or ignorance of the law.  (Hearn v. Howard (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1206.)  The term “surprise” refers to “some condition or situation in which a party is unexpectedly placed to his injury, without any default or negligence of his own, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.”  (Ibid., internal quotations omitted.)  Similarly, to be excusable, a litigant’s inadvertence or neglect must have been “such as might have been the act of a reasonably prudent person under the same circumstances.”  (Ibid.) Here, Defendants have shown excusable neglect.  Johnson, who is counsel for Kovich, indicates he miscalendared the extended date to respond to the Complaint; Plaintiff indicated this issue to Defendants on June 18, 2024; and Defendants filed a demurrer on July 2, 2024, which was about two weeks later and while Johnson was on vacation. Contrary to Plaintiff’s arguments, adequate notice for the Motion was provided to the extent that CCP § 473(b) was cited.  Additionally, the demurrer, while now stricken, remains viewable for reference.  In sum, the Motion is granted.  The demurrer is resurrected.  The objections are overruled.Anti-SLAPP Discovery Plaintiff seeks to lift the stay of discovery as a result of the anti-SLAPP motion filed by Defendant Tyson & Mendes, LLP.  Plaintiff seeks extensive written discovery, as well as at least three depositions.  Plaintiff contends that responses to her discovery requests “will give a clear picture and provide additional facts of how settlement funds have been handled, including the $1,500 cashier’s check in KMFM’s current possession and/or control, and will clearly support substantial interference of the settlement funds, defendants’ intent, and defendants’ wrongful conduct supporting the settlement funds – all supporting the causes of action in the complaint . . . . Plaintiff expects to find facts along the following lines: (a) the person who was responsible for handling all settlement funds to pay Plaintiff and lienholders, (b) how and to what extent Safeco as well as Tyson & Mendes LLP, its client Thomas Kovich, and its lawyers were involved in the handling of settlement funds to be paid to Plaintiff and lienholders, (c) specific facts as to why there has been a delay in payment of settlement funds to Plaintiff for almost a year (since November 20, 2023), (d) the persons responsible for interfering with payment of the settlement funds to Plaintiff, and, (e) defendants’ intent in interfering with payment of settlement funds to Plaintiff.”Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(g) provides, “All discovery proceedings in the action shall be stayed upon the filing of a notice of motion made pursuant to this section.  The stay of discovery shall remain in effect until notice of entry of the order ruling on the motion.  The court, on noticed motion and for good cause shown, may order that specified discovery be conducted notwithstanding this subdivision.”In order to establish “good cause” within the meaning of Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16(g), the plaintiff must show that “a defendant or a witness possesses evidence needed by the plaintiff to establish its probability of prevailing on a claim.”  (1-800 Contacts, Inc. v. Steinberg (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 568, 572).  Whether good cause has been shown is within the discretion of the Court.  (See Lafayette Morehouse, Inc. v. Chronicle Publ'g Co. (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 855, 868.) “[T]he fact evidence necessary to establish the plaintiff's prima facie case is in the hands of the defendant or a third party goes a long way toward showing good cause for discovery. But it is not the only factor. The trial court should consider whether the information the plaintiff seeks to obtain through formal discovery proceedings is readily available from other sources or can be obtained through informal discovery.  The court should also consider the plaintiff's need for discovery in the context of the issues raised in the SLAPP motion.”  (The Garment Workers Ctr. v. Superior Court (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 1156, 1162.)Plaintiff has failed to show good cause to conduct discovery.  Plaintiff should have sufficient evidence in her possession to defend her tort claims as to a $35,000 lien.  The Motion is denied.  Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 