This is a habitability matter.  On January 26, 2023, Plaintiffs Dawnielle Desensi, Shyann Redmond, and Alexis Redmond filed the operative Complaint against Defendants 3J1M LLC, Ironwood Velvet LLC, and Aperto Property Management Inc. for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing; breach of warranty of habitability, (3) nuisance, (4) fraud, negligent misrepresentation, concealment, (5) negligence – premises liability, (6) negligence, negligent supervision, negligent management, (7) violations of the UCL, (8) violations of the CLRA, (9) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (“IIED”), (10) assault, (11) violation of Civil Code §§ 51, et seq., 52.1, (12) violation of Gov. Code § 12955, et seq., and (13) violation of LARSO.Alexis Redmond, a minor, by and through her guardian ad litem, Dawnielle Desensi, seeks to settle her claims against Defendants.Court approval is required for all settlements of a minor’s claim.  (Probate Code §§ 3500, 3600, et seq.; Code of Civ. Proc. § 372.)  The Court has reviewed the proposed settlement and finds that it is generally fair and reasonable.  The only issue is the request for attorneys’ fees at 40% of the settlement sum of $25,000 (or $10,000 in fees).   Cal Rules of Court, Rule 7.955 provides in relevant part, (1) In all cases under Code of Civil Procedure section 372 or Probate Code sections 3600-3601, unless the court has approved the fee agreement in advance, the court must use a reasonable fee standard when approving and allowing the amount of attorney's fees payable from money or property paid or to be paid for the benefit of a minor or a person with a disability.(2) The court must give consideration to the terms of any representation agreement made between the attorney and the representative of the minor or person with a disability and must evaluate the agreement based on the facts and circumstances existing at the time the agreement was made, except where the attorney and the representative of the minor or person with a disability contemplated that the attorney's fee would be affected by later events.(b) Factors the court may consider in determining a reasonable attorney's feeIn determining a reasonable attorney's fee, the court may consider the following nonexclusive factors:(1) The fact that a minor or person with a disability is involved and the circumstances of that minor or person with a disability.(2) The amount of the fee in proportion to the value of the services performed.(3) The novelty and difficulty of the questions involved and the skill required to perform the legal services properly.(4) The amount involved and the results obtained.(5) The time limitations or constraints imposed by the representative of the minor or person with a disability or by the circumstances.(6) The nature and length of the professional relationship between the attorney and the representative of the minor or person with a disability.(7) The experience, reputation, and ability of the attorney or attorneys performing the legal services.(8) The time and labor required.(9) The informed consent of the representative of the minor or person with a disability to the fee.(10) The relative sophistication of the attorney and the representative of the minor or person with a disability.(11) The likelihood, if apparent to the representative of the minor or person with a disability when the representation agreement was made, that the attorney's acceptance of the particular employment would preclude other employment.(12) Whether the fee is fixed, hourly, or contingent.(13) If the fee is contingent:(A) The risk of loss borne by the attorney;(B) The amount of costs advanced by the attorney; and(C) The delay in payment of fees and reimbursement of costs paid by the attorney.(14) Statutory requirements for representation agreements applicable to particular cases or claims.The Court does not find the 40% fee request to be reasonable.  The attorneys’ fees are reduced to $8,000 (32%).  The Petition to Approve Minor’s Compromise is granted in part.  Amended proposed orders are to be filed within 10 days.Per California Rules of Court, Rule 7.952, Petitioner and Claimant must appear at the hearing, unless the Court finds good cause to excuse their appearance.  The Court finds that the minor does not need to make an appearance.  Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 