On June 24, 2024, Plaintiff Maynor Galindo filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendants Phillips 66 Company, Raudell Covarrubias, and Heriberto Plascencia for (1) FEHA harassment, (2) FEHA discrimination, (3) FEHA retaliation, (4) FEHA failure to prevent misconduct, (5) negligent hiring and retention, (6) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”), (7) whistleblower retaliation, and (8) wrongful termination.  Defendant Heriberto Plascencia demurs to the claims for harassment and IIED for failure to state sufficient facts.  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)To establish a prima facie case of harassment under the FEHA, the plaintiff must show that (1) she was a member of a protected class, (2) she was subjected to unwelcome harassment based on her protected status, and (3) the harassment unreasonably interfered with her work performance by creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment.  (Thompson v. City of Monrovia (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 860, 876.)  “ ‘Harassment cannot be occasional, isolated, sporadic, or trivial; rather the plaintiff must show a concerted pattern of harassment of a repeated, routine or a generalized nature.’ ”  (Aguilar v. Avis Rent A Car System, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 121, 131.)  In other words, the harassment must be “sufficiently severe or pervasive to alter the condition of the victim’s employment and create an abusive environment,” as judged by the reasonable person belonging to the plaintiff’s protected class.  (Thompson, at p. 877.)While personnel management may serve as evidence of harassment where there is a widespread pattern of bias communicating a hostile message (Roby v. McKesson Corp. (2009) 47 Cal.4th 686, 763), personnel management alone is not sufficient. The elements of the tort of IIED are: “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. . . . Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.”  (Christensen v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903, internal quotations omitted.)  Liability does not extend to mere insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other trivialities.  (Molko v. Holy Spirit Assn. (1986) 46 Cal.3d 1092, 1122.)Personnel management does not qualify as extreme and outrageous conduct.  (Janken v. GM Hughes Elecs. (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th 55, 80.)  The primary allegations in support of these claims are that Plaintiff was given risky and less favorable job assignments while his coworkers ate ice cream supplied by Defendant, was heavily scrutinized in front of others, was told in “menacing” fashion to sit with others on his break time when he did not feel comfortable, was forced to pick up lunch despite that not being a component of his job, was told to sit on a bucket, and was spoken to in an aggressive fashion. Plaintiff contends that the purpose of this was to demean and humiliate Plaintiff in front of his Mexican counterparts.  Some of the above allegations might constitute harassment, particularly that Defendant used curse words, wanted Plaintiff to sit on buckets, required lunch deliveries, and spoke and glared in a menacing manner.  This should be explored through discovery.  Therefore, the Demurrer is overruled.  An answer is to be filed within 20 days. Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 