

 
BACKGROUND
 
On February
21, 2023, Plaintiff State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company
(“Plaintiff”) filed this subrogation action against Defendants Maria Estela
Gonzalez aka Maria Robles (“Gonzalez”), P.V. Holding Corp., and Does 1 through 10.

 
Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant Gonzalez caused its insured to incur monetary
damages on or about February 2, 2022 in the amount of $4,733.43 when she was
negligently operating her vehicle. It is further alleged that Defendant
Gonzalez was operating the vehicle with the express or implied permission of
Defendant P.V. Holding Corp. 
 
On April 6, 2023, Defendant P.V.
Holding Corp filed its answer to the complaint. 
 
On October 27, 2023, Defendant P.V.
Holding Corp. filed a motion for order to deem Request for Admissions, Set one,
admitted as well as various motions to compel initial discovery, concerning its
Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and  Request for Production, Set One. As of
December 4, 2023, no opposition has been filed. Associated with each motion,
Defendant P.V. Holding Corp. seeks $780 in monetary sanctions against
Plaintiff. 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            As to each
discovery motion, Defendant P.V. Holding Corp. propounded the relevant
discovery requests on Plaintiff on June 14, 2023. As a result, responses were
due by July 19, 2023. However, Plaintiff failed to provide any discovery
responses by this deadline. On September 22, 2023, Defendant P.V. Holding Corp
requested that Plaintiff provide responses to the outstanding discovery
requests without objections by September 29, 2023, but again, Plaintiff failed
to respond. Therefore, Defendant P.V. Holding Corp argues that the instant
discovery motions should be granted, and the Court should award it monetary
sanctions in the total amount of $2,340 due to Plaintiff’s failure to respond
to discovery. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            None filed.
 
 
REPLY
 
            In lieu of reply,
Defendant P.V. Holding Corp. filed notices of non-oppositions. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Motions
to Deem Request for Admissions Admitted and to Compel Initial Discovery
A.        Legal Standard 
Where a
party fails to timely respond to a request for admission, the propounding party
may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of
any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted.  See Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd.
(b).  The party who failed to respond
waives any objections to the demand, unless the court grants them relief from
the waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently served a
substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to respond
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.  Id. at subds. (a)(1)-(2).  The court shall grant a motion to deem
admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom the
requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the
motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in
substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.” 
Id. at subd. (c).
Where a
party fails to serve timely responses to discovery requests, the court may make
an order compelling responses.   See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290,
2031.300; Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare
Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.)   A party that fails to serve timely responses
waives any objections to the request, including ones based on privilege or the
protection of attorney work product. 
Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300, subd. (a).  Unlike a motion to compel further responses,
a motion to compel responses is not subject to a 45-day time limit and the
propounding party has no meet and confer obligations.  (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc.,
supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at 404.) 
B.        Discussion
 
As a preliminary matter, Defendant P.V. Holding Corp.’s
motion to compel Plaintiff’s responses to its Special Interrogatories, Set One,
and Form Interrogatories, Set One, concerns two separate discovery requests. This
is improper because multiple motions should not be combined into a single
filing.  See Weil & Brown,
Civil Procedure Before Trial, [8:1140.1] at 8F-60 (The Rutter Group 2011) (“Motions
to compel compliance with separate discovery requests ordinarily should be
filed separately.”) Accordingly, Defendant P.V. Holding Corp must pay the
additional filing fee for including multiple motions in one.
 
1.         Merits 
 
Here, Defendant P.V. Holding Corp. served
the underlying discovery requests upon Plaintiff on June 14, 2023 via email,
and Plaintiff failed to provide responses by the July 19, 2023 deadline or
anytime thereafter. (Motion re: Request for Admissions at pg. 1, Stone Decl. ¶¶
3-7, Exh. A-B; Motion re: Interrogatories at pg. 1, Stone Decl. ¶¶ 3-7, Exh.
A-B; Motion re: Production of Document at pg. 1, Stone Decl. ¶¶ 3-7, Exh. A-B.)
 It is further noted that Plaintiff has
failed to file an opposition to show that code-compliant responses have been
served since the filing of the instant motions. Therefore, Defendant P.V.
Holding Corp. is entitled to an order compelling verified response without
objections to the pertinent discovery requests and deeming admitted the
requests for admission.
 
Accordingly, the instant motions
are granted. 
 
2.         Sanctions
 
In all three motions, Defendant seeks monetary sanctions against
Plaintiff in the amount of $780, consisting of 3 hours preparing each motion
and an hour attending the hearing at rate of $180 per hour. (Stone Decls. ¶
11.) In total, Defendant seeks $2,340 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff.
 
Code of Civil Procedure §§ 2023.010(d) and 2030.290(c)
authorize the court to impose sanctions for the failure to respond to discovery
without substantial justification. Monetary sanctions are mandatory against the
losing party in a motion to compel responses to interrogatories unless the
party’s failure to respond was substantially justified or other circumstances
render sanctions unjust.  Code Civ. Proc.
§§ 2030.290(c).  Also, Code of Civil
Procedure § 2023.030(a) authorizes sanctions for misuse of discovery, which
includes: failure to respond or submit to an authorized method of discovery;
making an evasive response to discovery; making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; and making or opposing,
unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a motion to compel or to
limit discovery.  Code Civ. Proc. §§
2023.010(d), (e), (f), (g) & (h).
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 2033.280(c), it is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction on the party or attorney,
or both for the failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission
which necessitated the motion.
 
Under the circumstances, sanctions
are warranted. However, the amount sought for each motion is excessive. Considering
the motions concern relatively simple discovery issues, contain similar facts,
and appear to be “cookie-cutter” in form, the amounts requested by Defendant
P.V. Holding Corp is not reasonable. Additionally, because the instant motions
will be heard on the same day and appearances will likely be conducted
remotely, the total time spent attending the hearing would not amount to 3
hours. Thus, the Court awards sanctions in the combined and reduced amount of
$1,080, consisting of 4.5 hours in preparing the instant motions and .5 hours
in attending the hearing, at a rate of $180 per hour and inclusive of fees,
against Plaintiff.
 
III.       Conclusion 
            
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant P.V. Holding Corp.’s
instant discovery motions are GRANTED. Also, its requests for monetary
sanctions associated with each motion are GRANTED in the reduced amount of $1,080,
inclusive of fees. 
 
            Defendant P.V. Holding Corp.’s
Request for Admissions, Set One, is DEEMED admitted. 
 
Plaintiff is instructed to provide verified
code-compliant responses without objections to Defendant’s Form
Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set Two, and Request for
Production of Documents, Set One, within 20 days of notice of this Order.
Plaintiff is further ordered to tender payment of the aforementioned monetary
sanctions to Defendant’s counsel within 30 days of notice of this Order. 
 
            Moving Party is ordered to give notice.