

 
SERVICE: 

 
[   ] Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC,
rule 3.1300)                     NO
[   ] Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      NO 
[   ] 16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c,
1005(b))                       NO  
 
OPPOSITION:          Filed as of November 29, 2023                      [   ] Late          [   ] None 
REPLY:                     None filed as of November 29,
2023              [   ] Late          [X] None 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 29, 2022, Plaintiff
Mercury Insurance Company (“Plaintiff”) filed two causes of actions, for money
not received and unjust enrichment, against Defendant Pazi Performance Auto
Center, Inc. (“Defendant”) stemming from car repairs conducted by the
Defendant. Defendant was served with the complaint and summons on January 09,
2023. Defendant did not make a general appearance. 
 
On June 29, 2023, Default was entered
against the Defendant. 
 
On August 03, 2023, the Court entered
a default judgment in Plaintiff’s favor.
 
On August 07, 2023, the Court
issued a writ of execution to enforce the money judgement against Defendant. 
 
On November 02, 2023, Defendant
filed the instant motion to set aside the default judgment. Plaintiff files in
opposition. 
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
Defendant moves to set aside default judgement under
section 473(b). Defendant argues that its inability to timely answer the
complaint was due to Defendant’s own inadvertence and excusable neglect because
of miscommunication regarding insurance issues. Defendant also argues that
Defendant did not anticipate or expect an actual lawsuit until the service of
the default judgment. Defendant additionally requests leave to properly file
its answer, if the Court were to grant the motion. 
 
OPPOSITION
 
            Plaintiff
opposes the motion to set aside. Plaintiff argues that the Court should not grant
mandatory relief in this matter as the fault is on the Defendant and not Defendant’s
counsel. Plaintiff additionally argues that Defendant counsel’s declaration is
merely covering up for Defendant’s failure to act despite knowing about the
case immediately upon service. Plaintiff however does not address whether
Defendant should be entitled to discretionary relief under section 473(b). 
 
REPLY
 
            No reply
has been filed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I.          Legal
Standard
Under Code of Civil Procedure, section 473, subdivision
(b), “the court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or
her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., §473(b)). Relief under this section is
mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault; otherwise, it is
discretionary. (Id.) An application for relief must be made no more than
six months after entry of the order from which relief is sought and must be
accompanied by an affidavit of fault attesting to the moving party’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); English
v. IKON Business Solutions (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.) When relief
from default and a default judgment is based on an attorney affidavit of fault,
the six-month period starts to run from the date of the entry of the default
judgment. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, sub. (b); Sugasawara v. Newland
(1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 294, 295.) 
 
II.        Discussion 
 
Defendant moves to set aside default judgement under
section 473(b). Defendant argues that its inability to timely answer the
complaint was due to Defendant’s own inadvertence and excusable neglect. Plaintiff
in opposition argues that Defendant is not entitled to mandatory relief under CCP
section 473(b). 
 
Here, the Motion is timely. CCP
section 473(b) provides that an application for relief must be made no more
than six months after entry of the order from which it was sought. Here,
default judgment was issued on August 03, 2023. (08/03/23 Default Judgement.) Defendant
filed its motion on November 02, 2023, well within the six-month deadline. 
Defendant does
not qualify for mandatory relief because Defendant only provides the Court with
a declaration from its new counsel, who was obtained after default was already
entered. (Theida Salazar Decl.) Thus, Defendant is limited to seeking
discretionary relief based on Defendant’s own “mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or excusable neglect.” However, the only evidence submitted by Defendant in
support of its motion is the declaration of Defendant’s Counsel (“Salazar”) in
which he states that he was: (1) recently retained by Defendant for this matter;
(2) filed the motion due to the excusable neglect made in this case; and (3)
“understand[s] that there were some issues with [Defendant’s] understanding and
comprehension.” (Salazar Decl., ¶¶ 4-6.) 
 
            Salazar’s
declaration is insufficient to show Defendant’s excusable neglect because he
does not have personal knowledge of any communication or comprehension issues
espoused by Defendant. In its opening brief, Defendant argues that Defendant
did not anticipate or expect a
lawsuit until it had received service of the default judgment. (Motion, p. 7.)
This argument is not supported by any admissible evidence. In any event, the
Court finds that Defendant’s neglect was not excusable as Defendant had ample
time to retain counsel and provide an answer. Plaintiff served the complaint
and summons on Defendant on January 09, 2023. (06/09/23 Proof of Service.) Plaintiff’s
counsel attests that they had been in communication with Defendant from
February 2023 till at least August 2023 when the default judgment was entered. (Min
Thai Decl. ¶¶ 2-4, Exs. 2 & 3.) Defendant fails to submit any evidence demonstrating
why its delay in retaining counsel or responding to the complaint was
excusable.
 
            Therefore,
the motion is not in compliance with section 473(b) and thus Defendant is not entitled
to relief. 
 
III.       Conclusion 
            
            Defendant’s Motion to Set Aside Default Judgement is DENIED.

 
Defendant’s request for leave to properly file its answer is
also DENIED.
 
            Moving Party is ordered to give
notice.