 Case Number:  23STCV06050    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion to Compel the Deposition of
Defendant’s Person Most Qualified
 
Moving
Party: Plaintiff Maria Antonia Rodriguez
Resp.
Party:    Defendant
American Honda Motor Co., Inc. 
 
 
The Motion to Compel
Deposition is GRANTED. Defendant’s PMQ shall be made available within ten (10)
days of the issuance of this Order. 
 
PRELIMINARY COMMENTS:
 
        The Court is concerned about the lack of
professionalism shown in Defendant’s Opposition.  Defendant makes three arguments in its opposition;
two of these are irrelevant.  Section
III(A) of the argument is entitled “AHM US Has Already Complied in Full With
Most Requests and Agreed to Produce The Responsive Documents.”  (Opposition, p. 2:22-23.)  However, Plaintiff has not moved to compel production
of documents.  Section III(D) of the
argument is entitled “Plaintiff’s Request for Sanctions is Not Warranted.”  (Opposition, p. 3:25.)  Again, Plaintiff has not requested sanctions.  (The Court also notes that the three
arguments are labeled “A,” “B,” and “D”; a quick proofreading would have corrected
this to “A, B and C.”
 
        Give the lack of professionalism of the Opposition,
had Plaintiff requested sanctions, the Court would have been inclined to award sanctions.



 
 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
        On March 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed her
Complaint against Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc. on causes of action
arising from the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. 
 
        On May 9, 2023, Defendant filed its
Answer to the Complaint. 
 
        On February 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed her
Motion to Compel the Deposition of Defendant’s Person Most Qualified (“Motion
to Compel Deposition”). In support of her Motion to Compel Deposition,
Plaintiff concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Nadine Bedwan; and (2)
Proposed Order. 
 
        On April 10, 2024, Defendant filed its
Opposition to the Motion. 
 
        On April 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed her
Reply in support of the Motion.
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard
 
“If, after service of a deposition
notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or
employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party
under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (a).)
 
“If a motion under subdivision (a)
is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g).)
 
II.      
Discussion 
 
Plaintiff moves the
Court to order the deposition of Defendant’s person most qualified (“PMQ”)
within ten calendar days. (Motion to Compel Deposition, p. 7:6–10.) 
 
Plaintiff initially
served the Notice of Deposition for the PMQ on January 16, 2024. (Decl. Bedwan,
¶ 16.) Defendant objected to the deposition on January 25, 2024. (Opposition,
Exh. A.) The deposition has apparently not yet occurred.
 
Defendant opposes
the Motion to Compel Deposition, arguing: (1) that Defendant has already
complied with most requests and agreed to produce the responsive documents; (2)
that Plaintiff has not established good cause for the motion; and (3) that Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is not warranted. (Opposition, pp. 2:22–23, 3:3, 3:25.)
 
Plaintiff is
correct. 
 
Plaintiff has the
right to depose Defendant’s PMQ in a timely manner. Defendant’s alleged
production of documents does not have any bearing on the issue of producing its
PMQ for deposition. As more than thirty days have passed since Plaintiff’s
notice of deposition without the deposition occurring or Defendant making a
meritorious objection, Plaintiff has shown good cause for the motion. 
 
Furthermore, has
Plaintiff notes in its Reply, it appears that Defense Counsel did not read the
Motion to Compel Deposition. Specifically, Defense Counsel needlessly argues
that Plaintiff should not receive monetary sanctions.  (See Opposition, p. 3:25 – p. 4:13.)  However, Plaintiff never requested monetary
sanctions. 
 
III.    
Conclusion 
 
The Motion to
Compel Deposition is GRANTED. Defendant’s PMQ shall be made available within
ten (10) days of the issuance of this Order. 

 