 Case Number:  23PSCV02608    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Jianna
Elizabeth Fuentes, et al. v. Nicolas Elias Valle, et al. 
1 - Claimant Eden Lomas’ Petition
for Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of Proceeds of
Judgment for Minor or Person with a Disability;
2 - Claimant Emerie Lomas’
Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of
Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or Person with a Disability; and
3 - Claimant Emma Fuentes’
Petition for Approval of Compromise of Claim or Action or Disposition of
Proceeds of Judgment for Minor or Person with a Disability 
TENTATIVE RULING 
The Court continues
the hearing on the Claimant Eden Lomas’ petitions for approval
of compromise of claim or action or disposition of proceeds of judgment for
minor or person with a disability to allow Petitioner to correct the petitions
and proposed orders. 
The Court continues the hearing on Claimant Emerie Lomas’ petition
for approval of compromise of claim or action or disposition of proceeds of
judgment for minor or person with a disability to allow Petitioner to correct the petitions and proposed
orders. 
The Court continues the hearing on Claimant Emma Fuentes’ petition
for approval of compromise of claim or action or disposition of proceeds of
judgment for minor or person with a disability to allow Petitioner to correct the petitions and proposed
orders. 
Petitioner is
ordered to provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file proof of service of
same within five days of the Court’s order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is an auto accident case. On August 24,
2023, plaintiffs Jianna Elizabeth Fuentes (Petitioner), Eden Lomas (Eden),
Emerie Lomas (Emerie), and Emma Fuentes (Emma) (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed
this action against defendants Nicolas Elias Valle (Defendant), Joseph Adam
Pedroza,[1] and Does 1 through 50, alleging causes of action
for motor vehicle and general negligence. 
On May 21, 2024, the Court approved Petitioner’s
applications and orders for appointment as guardian ad litem for Eden, Emerie,
and Emma (collectively, Claimants). 
On June 6, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a notice of
settlement. On September 9, 2024, Petitioner filed petitions for approval of
compromise of claim or action or disposition of proceeds of judgment for minor
or person with disability on behalf of Claimants. The Petitions are unopposed. 
LEGAL STANDARD
Court approval is required for all settlements of a
minor's claim or that of a person lacking the capacity to make decisions.
(Prob. Code, §§ 2504, 3500, 3600 et seq.; Code Civ. Proc., § 372; see Pearson
v. Superior Court (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1333, 1337.) "[T]he
protective role the court generally assumes in cases involving minors, [is] a
role to assure that whatever is done is in the minor's best interests . . . .
[I]ts primary concern is whether the compromise is sufficient to provide for
the minor's injuries, care and treatment." (Goldberg v. Superior Court
(1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 1378, 1382.) 
A petition for court approval of a compromise under
Code of Civil Procedure section 372 must comply with California Rules of Court
Rules 7.950, 7.951, and 7.952. The petition must be verified by the petitioner
and contain a full disclosure of all information that has "any bearing
upon the reasonableness" of the compromise or the covenant. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 7.950.) The person compromising the claim on behalf of the person
who lacks capacity, and the represented person, must attend the hearing on
compromise of the claim unless the court for good cause dispenses with their
personal appearance. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.952(a).) An order for deposit
of funds of a minor or person lacking decision-making capacity and a petition
for the withdrawal of such funds must comply with California Rules of Court
Rules 7.953 and 7.954. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1384; see also Super. Ct.
L.A. County, Local Rules, rules 4.115-4.118.)
DISCUSSION
Form MC-350 (Rev. January 1, 2021)
The Petitions have been verified by Petitioner and
presented on a fully completed mandatory Judicial Council Form MC-350, using
the current January 1, 2021 revision. (Cal. Rule of Court Rule 7.950.) 
Settlement 
Claimants have
agreed to settle their respective claims with Defendant in exchange for
$8,000.00 each, $3,250.00 of which will go to each Claimant. If approved, $2,000.00 will be paid in attorney’s
fees, and $2,750.00 will paid to Wellness Involved Chiropractic, leaving a
balance of $3,250.00 for each Claimant, to be transferred to a custodian for
the benefit of Claimants under the California Uniform Transfers to Minors Act. 
Court approval is required for
all settlements of a person with a disability. (Probate Code, §§ 3600, et seq.; Code Civ. Proc., § 372.) The
Court has reviewed the proposed settlement and finds the Petitions still do not
contain a full disclosure of all information that has any bearing upon the
reasonableness of the settlement amount to Claimants, as paragraph 10 of the
Petitions is still incomplete, and only indicates that Defendant will pay
$8,000.00. (See Petitions, ¶ 10.) $8,000.00 seems reasonable given Claimants’
injuries, but Petitioner needs to properly complete the Petitions, specifically
paragraph 10, subdivision (a). 
The Court also notes that the
Petition for Emerie is not signed by Plaintiffs’ counsel. (Petition for Emerie
Lomas, p. 10.) The Court further notes that paragraph 7 of the Petitions for
Emerie and Emma state, “Eden Lomas treated at Wellness Evolved Chiropractic.”
(Petitions for Emerie Lomas and Emma Fuentes, ¶ 7.) Petitioner needs to correct
these deficiencies. 
Attorney Fees 
The retained attorney's
information has been disclosed as required by Rule of Court 7.951. (Petitions,
¶ 17, subd. (b).) There is an agreement for services provided in connection
with the underlying claim. (Petition, ¶ 17, subd. (a)(2).) Copies of the
agreements were submitted with the Petitions as required by Rule 7.951, subdivision
(6), of the California Rules of Court. (Teroganesyan Decls., Ex. A; Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 7.951, subd. (6).) 
Claimants’ counsel is seeking to
recover $2,000.00 in attorney fees from each Claimant, i.e., 25% of $8,000.00.
(Petitions, ¶ 13, subd. (a); Teroganesyan Decls., ¶ 4, Ex. A.) Counsel has
provided a declaration addressing the reasonableness of the fee request, as
required by Rule 7.955, subdivision (c), of the California Rules of Court, accounting
for the factors specified in Rule 7.955, subdivision (b). (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 7.955, subd. (c).) Rule 7.955, subdivision (b), provides: 
(b) Factors the court may
consider in determining a reasonable attorney's fee. In determining a
reasonable attorney's fee, the court may consider the following nonexclusive
factors:
(1) The fact that a minor or
person with a disability is involved and the circumstances of that minor or
person with a disability.
(2) The amount of the fee in
proportion to the value of the services performed.
(3) The novelty and difficulty of
the questions involved and the skill required to perform the legal services
properly.
(4) The amount involved and the
results obtained.
(5) The time limitations or
constraints imposed by the representative of the minor or person with a
disability or by the circumstances.
(6) The nature and length of the
professional relationship between the attorney and the representative of the
minor or person with a disability.
(7) The experience, reputation,
and ability of the attorney or attorneys performing the legal services.
(8) The time and labor required.
(9) The informed consent of the
representative of the minor or person with a disability to the fee.
(10) The relative sophistication
of the attorney and the representative of the minor or person with a
disability.
(11) The likelihood, if apparent
to the representative of the minor or person with a disability when the
representation agreement was made, that the attorney's acceptance of the
particular employment would preclude other employment.
(12) Whether the fee is fixed,
hourly, or contingent.
(13) If the fee is contingent: 
(A) The risk of loss borne by the
attorney;
(B) The amount of costs advanced
by the attorney; and
(C) The delay in payment of fees
and reimbursement of costs paid by the attorney.
(14) Statutory requirements for
representation agreements applicable to particular cases or claims. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.955, subd. (b).)
The Court addresses these factors below. 
Amount of Fee in Proportion to
Value of Services Performed 
Claimants’ counsel indicates that
the contingency rate for each of the Claimants in this matter is 25%, and claims
to have represented Claimants’ zealously in the prelitigation and litigation
phases of this action. (Teroganesyan Decls., ¶¶ 4, 9.) 
Novelty and Difficulty 
Claimants’ counsel provides no
information about the novelty or difficulty of this case. (See generally,
Teroganesyan Decls.) The Court infers from the Petitions and attached medical
bills that this case was neither novel nor particularly difficult. (See
Petitions, Attachment.) 
Amount Involved and Results
Obtained 
Claimants’ counsel only mentions a
25% contingency and does not mention the actual dollar amount involved or the
results obtained. (See Teroganesyan Decls., ¶ 4.) 
Nature and Length of Professional
Relationship 
Claimants’ counsel has been
representing Claimants in this action since November 2021. (Teroganesyan
Decls., ¶ 2, Ex. A.) 
Experience, Reputation, and
Ability of Counsel 
Claimants’ counsel states that
she has extensive experience representing Plaintiffs in personal injury cases.
(Teroganesyan Decls., ¶ 8.) 
Time and Labor Required 
Claimants’ counsel provides no
information about the amount of work undertaken for this case. 
Acceptance of Case Precluding
Other Employment 
Claimants’ counsel does not
address whether acceptance of this case precluded other employment. 
Contingent Fee 
Claimants’ counsel accepted
Claimants’ case for a 25% contingency fee. (Teroganesyan Decls., ¶ 4, Ex. A.)
Claimants’ counsel offered to advance the costs associated with this action,
and otherwise does request reimbursement for any costs. (Teroganesyan Decls., ¶
5; Petitions, ¶ 13, subd. (b).) 
The Court finds that Claimants’ counsel
has adequately demonstrated the reasonableness of the fee award in light of the
factors and circumstances in this case. 
Medical Bills 
Claimants have each incurred
$4,091.50 in medical expenses, but Wellness Evolved Chiropractic has agreed to
reduce its liens to $2,750.00 each. (Petitions, ¶ 12, subd. (b)(5); Id.,
Attachment, p. 23 of pdf.) 
Costs 
Claimants’ counsel is not seeking
to recover costs. (Petitions, ¶ 13, subd. (b).) 
Amount to Be Paid to Claimants 
The net amount to be paid to each
of the Claimants is $3,250.00. (Petitions, ¶ 15.) 
Disposition of Balance of
Proceeds 
Petitioner requests that the net
proceeds, $3,250.00 for each Claimant, to be transferred to a custodian for the
benefit of the minor under the California Uniform Transfers to Minors Act. (Petitions,
¶ 18, subd. (b)(6); Attachment 18b(6).) 
Court Appearance 
Rule 7.952, subdivision (a), of
the California Rules of Court requires attendance by the petitioner and
claimant unless the court for good cause dispenses with their personal
appearance. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.952, subd. (a).) The Court finds that
the appearances of the Claimants are not required due to their minor status.
However, Petitioner’s attendance is required. 
Prognosis 
Claimants have recovered
completely from the effects of their injuries. (Petitions, ¶ 8, subd. (a).) 
Proposed Order MC-351 
Petitioner has filed a Proposed
Order Form MC-351 for each of the Claimants. However, the Proposed Orders do
not specify to whom the attorney’s fees are payable. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
will continue the hearing on the Claimants’ petitions
for approval of compromise of claim or action or
disposition of proceeds of judgment for minor or person with a disability
without prejudice to allow Petitioner to correct the petitions and proposed
orders. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court continues
the hearing on the Claimant Eden Lomas’ petitions for approval
of compromise of claim or action or disposition of proceeds of judgment for
minor or person with a disability to allow Petitioner to correct the petitions
and proposed orders. 
The Court continues the hearing on Claimant Emerie Lomas’ petition
for approval of compromise of claim or action or disposition of proceeds of
judgment for minor or person with a disability to allow Petitioner to correct the petitions and proposed
orders. 
The Court continues the hearing on Claimant Emma Fuentes’ petition
for approval of compromise of claim or action or disposition of proceeds of
judgment for minor or person with a disability to allow Petitioner to correct the petitions and proposed
orders. 
Petitioner is
ordered to provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file proof of service of
same within five days of the Court’s order.


