  Case Number:  22PSCV00507    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Herbert
Hall, et al. v. Sunrise Senior Living, LLC, et al. 
Defendants’
Motion for Leave to Submit Tardy Expert Designation 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS the motion for leave to submit tardy expert
designation. Moving Parties must make Ms. Mitchell immediately available for
deposition. 
            Moving Parties are ordered to give
notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is an elder abuse case. On May 27, 2022, plaintiffs Herbert
Hall, by and through his successor-in-interest, Carol Lucille Hall, Carol
Lucille Hall, and Deborah Dunn (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this action
against defendants Sunrise Senior Living, LLC, Sunrise Development, Inc.,
Sunrise Senior Living Services, Inc., Welltower Opco Group, LLC, Sunrise Senior
Living Management, Inc., Jennifer Serrano, Veronica Hermosillo, and Does 1
through 250, alleging causes of action for elder abuse/neglect, negligence,
negligent hiring, supervision & retention, and wrongful death. 
On August 16, 2024, Defendants Sunrise Senior Living, LLC, Sunrise
Senior Living Management, Inc., and Welltower Opco Group, LLC (collectively,
Moving Parties) moved for leave to submit a tardy expert designation. On September
18, 2024, Plaintiffs opposed the motion. On September 24, 2024, Moving Parties
replied. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
Within 20 days after the exchange described in
Section 2034.260, any party who engaged in the exchange may submit a
supplemental expert witness list containing the name and address of any experts
who will express an opinion on a subject to be covered by an expert designated
by an adverse party to the exchange, if the party supplementing an expert
witness list has not previously retained an expert to testify on that subject.

(Code Civ. Proc., § 2034.280,
subd. (a).) 
(a) On motion of any party who has failed to submit
expert witness information on the date specified in a demand for that exchange,
the court may grant leave to submit that information on a later date. 
(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall be made a
sufficient time in advance of the time limit for the completion of discovery
under Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 2024.010) to permit the deposition of
any expert to whom the motion relates to be taken within that time limit. Under
exceptional circumstances, the court may permit the motion to be made at a
later time. 
(c) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2034.710.) 
The court shall grant leave to submit tardy expert
witness information only if all of the following conditions are satisfied: 
(a) The court has taken into account the extent to
which the opposing party has relied on the absence of a list of expert
witnesses. 
(b) The court has determined that any party opposing
the motion will not be prejudiced in maintaining that party's action or defense
on the merits. 
(c) The court has determined that the moving party
did all of the following: 
(1) Failed to submit the information as the result of
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
(2) Sought leave to submit the information promptly
after learning of the mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. 
(3) Promptly thereafter served a copy of the proposed
expert witness information described in Section 2034.260 on all other parties
who have appeared in the action. 
(d) The order is conditioned on the moving party
making the expert available immediately for a deposition under Article 3
(commencing with Section 2034.410), and on any other terms as may be just,
including, but not limited to, leave to any party opposing the motion to
designate additional expert witnesses or to elicit additional opinions from
those previously designated, a continuance of the trial for a reasonable period
of time, and the awarding of costs and litigation expenses to any party
opposing the motion. 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2034.720.) 
DISCUSSION 
Meet and Confer 
Per
Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.710, subdivision (a), Moving Parties were
required to meet and confer before bringing this motion. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2034.710, subd. (a).) The Court finds Moving Parties’ efforts to meet and
confer sufficient, (Tramontano Decl., ¶ 6), although the Court generally requires
parties to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference
before bringing any motions, (Dept. 6 Courtroom Information [“Parties are
required to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference
before filing any motion.”]) 
Summary of Arguments 
Moving Parties seek leave to submit a supplemental expert
designation under Code of Civil Procedure section 2034.710. Moving Parties
contend the failure to timely designate supplemental expert witnesses was the
result of inadvertence and mistake. Moving Parties indicate that once the trial
in this action was continued to November 12, 2024, Moving Parties’ counsel
updated their calendar system with the new trial date which erroneously
continued the timing for the supplemental exchange of experts on the new 70-day
statutory timing for the continued trial date. Moving Parties indicate that
they contacted Plaintiffs’ counsel on August 6, 2024, shortly after the
supplemental exchange deadline of July 30, 2024, with a supplemental expert
designation and asked if Plaintiffs would be objecting. Moving Parties contend
Plaintiffs then objected on the grounds the supplemental expert designation was
duplicative. Moving Parties contend the parties have sufficient time to conduct
expert discovery and that no prejudice will result from the Court granting this
motion. 
Moving Parties also contend their supplemental expert is offered
in response to Plaintiffs’ own identified topics of testimony and is not
duplicative since each of Moving Parties’ experts would opine regarding
different standards of care. Moving Parties contend their supplemental
designation identifies their nursing standard of care expert would specifically
opine on topics not previously set forth in their initial expert designation
and which were specifically identified by Plaintiffs themselves. 
In opposition, Plaintiffs contend Moving Parties’ supplemental
expert designation is untimely and duplicative. Plaintiffs contend Moving
Parties’ experts are designated to testify regarding identical topics as the
proposed supplemental expert, which would be cumulative and impermissible.
Plaintiffs further contend Moving Parties’ proposed supplemental expert would
prejudice Plaintiffs due to multiple unnecessary depositions close to the trial
date and by allowing Plaintiffs to have an extra expert to cumulatively opine
on the same subjects as their other two experts. 
Analysis 
The Court finds Moving Parties’ motion well taken.
Plaintiffs have presented no evidence indicating that they will be unduly
prejudiced by permitting Moving Parties’ late supplemental expert designation,
nor have they presented any evidence to show that they relied on the absence of
Moving Parties’ proposed supplemental expert witness. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2034.720, subds. (a)-(b).) The Court finds that the late designation was the
result of inadvertence and mistake due to a calendaring error, that Moving
Parties promptly sought leave within a matter of weeks after discovering the
error, and promptly served the proposed supplemental expert designation on
Plaintiffs, none of which Plaintiffs dispute. (Id., § 2034.720, subd.
(c); Tramontano Decl., ¶¶ 5-6; see Opp., 2:6-12.) 
The Court also finds the proposed supplemental
expert’s testimony is not duplicative of Moving Parties’ other designated
witnesses. Dr. Rosen’s testimony is expected to cover health conditions,
diagnoses, and treatment of the decedent Plaintiff and the standard of care
related to that treatment; Ms. Ottaway’s testimony is expected to cover the
standard of care for facilities like Sunrise of Claremont, causation,
applicable statutes and regulations, damages, staffing, and related issues;
while Ms. Mitchell’s proposed supplemental expert testimony is expected to
cover issues relating to the interpretation of the decedent Plaintiff’s medical
records as it relates to the standard of care for nursing in a residential
facility for the elderly, causation, and damages, among other things.
(Tramontano Decl., Ex. 2; id., Ex. 4, ¶ 3.) While the Court does find
there is some possible overlap between Ms. Ottaway’s expected testimony
and Ms. Mitchell’s, such as regarding staffing, Ms. Mitchell’s expected
testimony would be limited to the scope of standard of care for a nurse in a
residential care facility, while Ms. Ottaway’s is focused on facilities
management and operations. (Tramontano Decl., Ex. 2; id., Ex. 4, ¶ 3.) The
Court does not find there to be “substantial overlap” that would prevent Ms.
Mitchell from testifying as an expert here. (See S. Bay Chevrolet v. Gen. Motors
Acceptance Corp. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 861, 906.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion. Moving
Parties must make Ms. Mitchell immediately available for deposition. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2034.720, subd. (d).) 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS the motion for leave to submit tardy expert
designation. Moving Parties must make Ms. Mitchell immediately available for
deposition. 
            Moving Parties are ordered to give
notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.