 Case Number:  23PSCV03560    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Trini
Nguyen, et al. v. Khiem “Kevin” Nguyen 
Plaintiffs’
Motion for Leave to File Second Amended Complaint 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file a Second
Amended Complaint. Plaintiffs must file and serve the Second Amended Complaint
within 5 days of the Court’s order. 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within
five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a partition action. On November 14, 2023, plaintiffs Trini
Nguyen, Natalie Nguyen, Bryant Nguyen, Patrick Nguyen, and David Lovold (collectively,
Plaintiffs) filed this action against defendant Khiem “Kevin” Nguyen (Defendant)
and Does 1 through 20, alleging causes of action for partition by sale of real
property, constructive trust, and contribution. On March 29, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed the operative First Amended Complaint, alleging the same causes of action
against Defendant and Does 1 through 20. 
On August 28, 2024, Plaintiffs moved for leave to file a Second Amended
Complaint. The motion is unopposed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1) provides, in relevant part:  “The court may, in furtherance of justice,
and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer.  The court may likewise, in its discretion,
after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like
terms allow an answer to be made after the time limited by this code.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) This discretion should be exercised liberally
in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed
matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) 
Under Rule
3.1324, subdivision (a) of the California Rules of Court, a motion to amend a
pleading shall (1) include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments; (2) state what allegations in the previous pleading
are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph and line
number, the deleted allegations are located; and (3) state what allegations are
proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located. (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (a).) 
Under Rule
3.1324, subdivision (b) of the California Rules of Court, a separate
declaration must accompany the motion and must specify (1) the effect of the
amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts
giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why
the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324, subd. (b).) 
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiffs seek leave to amend to file the proposed Second Amended
Complaint (SAC) based on information recently discovered in bank documents
received from Chase Bank for Defendant’s bank records. Plaintiffs contend the
motion is timely based on their recent discovery based on Defendant’s bank
records, that there is no undue prejudice to Defendant since no trial is set,
and Defendant has had enough time to conduct any needed discovery. Plaintiffs further
contend the deaths of their mother and aunt did not abate Defendant’s
obligation to divide their estates because Defendant improperly acquired their
bank accounts and all of their Social Security checks. Plaintiffs indicate the
new allegations in the SAC support that Defendant took funds when he had an
obligation to contribute to the care of their mother and aunt. 
The Court
finds Plaintiffs have substantially complied with the requirements for seeking
to leave to amend. Plaintiffs have included copies of the proposed SAC with the
proposed revisions. (Flyer Decl., ¶ 3, Exs. B, C.) Plaintiffs have indicated
that the information was discovered only recently, which explains why the
request for amendment was not made earlier. (Motion, 4:21-22.) Plaintiffs have
also indicated the effect of the proposed amendments. (Flyer Decl., ¶ 3.) The
Court further construes the lack of opposition to this motion as a tacit
admission that Plaintiffs’ arguments are meritorious. (Sexton v. Superior
Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410; C. Opposing the Motion—and
Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C,
¶ 9:105.10; see also Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v.
Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215 [“Contentions are waived
when a party fails to support them with reasoned argument and citations to
authority. [Citation.]”]) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file a Second
Amended Complaint. Plaintiffs must file and serve the Second Amended Complaint
within 5 days of the Court’s order. 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within
five calendar days of this order.