 Case Number:  24PSCV00166    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Heavenstone
Corporation v. Ecoff Campain Tilles & Kay, LLP, et al. 
General
and Special Demurrers of Defendants Ecoff Campaign Tilles & Kay, LLP,
Lawrence C. Ecoff and Kevin T. Kay to the First Amended Complaint of Plaintiff
Heavenstone Corporation 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the entire First Amended
Complaint, Third Cause of Action, and Fifth Cause of Action on the grounds that
they are time-barred under Code of Civil Procedure section 340.6. The Court
SUSTAINS the demurrer to the First, Second, and Fourth Causes of Action on the
grounds that they are time-barred under Code of Civil Procedure section 340.6.
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Third and Fifth Causes of Action for
failure to state a cause of action. The Court will hear from Plaintiff at the
hearing on the demurrer whether the defects noted herein can be corrected. 
            Defendants are ordered to give
notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a legal services related lawsuit. On January 16, 2024, plaintiff
Heavenstone Corporation (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Ecoff
Campaign Tilles & Kay, LLP (Law Firm), Lawrence C. Ecoff (Ecoff), Kevin T.
Kay (Kay) (collectively, Defendants), and Does 1 through 25, alleging causes of
action for legal malpractice, fraud, breach of fiduciary duty, breach of
contract, breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and civil
conspiracy to commit fraud. On July 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative
First Amended Complaint (FAC) against Defendants, alleging causes of action for
breach of contract, breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
contractual fraud, breach of implied covenant of fiduciary duty, and civil
conspiracy to commit fraud. 
On August 23, 2024, Defendants demurred to the FAC. On September
18, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the demurrer. On September 25, 2024, Defendants filed
a late reply. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
            A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of
other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or
content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., §
422.10; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of
the complaint; and for purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in
the complaint are assumed to be true. (Id.) 
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,
supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be
considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,
881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting
demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal
v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider
contents of release not part of court record].) 
A
demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete
or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of
the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are
incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.
Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s
Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as
surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”]) 
A demurrer
can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of
Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108
Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.) 
PRELIMINARY ISSUE 
            The
Court notes that Defendants’ notice of demurrer and demurrer are four pages
long, and contain substantive arguments in support of the demurrer. This is
improper. The notice of a motion requires a statement of the nature of the
order sought and the grounds for issuing the order, plus the hearing
information. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1110, subds. (a)-(b).) The motion
identifies parties bringing the motion, the parties to whom it is addressed,
briefly states the basis for the motion and the relief sought, and, if
challenging a pleading, states the specific portion of the pleading challenged,
(Id., rule 3.1112, subd. (d)). The Court admonishes Defendants to comply
with the requirements of the California Rules of Court going forward. 
DISCUSSION 
Meet and Confer 
Per
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), Defendants were required
to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference before bringing
this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a); Dept. 6 Courtroom
Information [“Parties are required to meet and confer in person, by telephone,
or by video conference before filing any motion.”]) The Court finds Defendants’
efforts to meet and confer insufficient, as there is no indication that counsel
for Defendants attempted to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by
video conference. (See Smith Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) However, the Court may not
overrule a demurrer for failure to adequately meet and confer. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).) The Court will still consider the demurrer, but
admonishes Defendants to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil
Procedure going forward. 
First Amended Complaint and All Causes of Action – Statute of
Limitations 
“One of the primary functions of the demurrer is to
filter out actions which lack substantial basis without the time and labor of
trial. Where the complaint discloses that the statute of limitations bars the
action, the general demurrer has long been held an appropriate means to assert
such a facial defect. [Citations.]” (Saliter v. Pierce Bros. Mortuaries
(1978) 81 Cal.App.3d 292, 300.) “While a demurrer based on statute of
limitations lies where the dates in question are shown on the face of the
complaint, if those dates are missing, there is no ground for a general
demurrer. [Citations.]” (United W. Med. Centers v. Superior Ct. (1996)
42 Cal.App.4th 500, 505, italics added.) 
The statute of limitations for claims against
attorneys arising out of their performance of professional services is one year
from the date the plaintiff knew or should have known of the facts constituting
the wrongful act or omission, or four years from the date of the wrongful act
or omission, whichever occurs first. (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.6, subd. (a); see
also Austin v. Medicis (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 577, 587 [Code of Civil
Procedure section 340.6, subdivision (a), is not limited to claims for legal
malpractice, but includes any claims arising out of the attorney’s rendering of
professional services].) 
Defendants demur to the FAC and all causes of action contained in
it on the grounds that they are time-barred and therefore fail to state a cause
of action. Defendants contend the FAC alleges that Plaintiff either knew or
should have known of Defendants’ alleged wrongdoing in the handling of the
underlying unlawful detainer action as early as April 18, 2022, i.e., the date
the judgment in the underlying unlawful detainer action was entered, and as
late as December 5, 2022, i.e., the date when the motion to set aside the
judgment was denied. Defendants then note that Plaintiff did not file its
complaint until more than one year later on January 16, 2024, which makes this
action time-barred under Code of Civil Procedure section 340.6. 
Defendants further contend that Code of Civil Procedure section
340.6 applies to not only claims for legal malpractice, but any claim for
wrongful conduct arising from the performance of professional services.
Defendants note that Plaintiff’s original complaint included a cause of action
for legal malpractice, and that the allegations of the FAC are virtually
identical to the original complaint, but instead omits the legal malpractice
claim in favor of alternative causes of action sounding in breach of contract. Defendants
contend this effort fails because these causes of action are still subject to
the one-year limitations period under Code of Civil Procedure section 340.6, as
Plaintiff’s claims are based upon allegations of Defendants’ actions arising
out of the provision of professional services in handling the underlying
unlawful detainer action. 
In opposition, Plaintiff claims to have clearly articulated a
rubric of facts and law that entitles it to a complaint for damages upon each
cause of action pleaded in the FAC. Plaintiff also contends Defendants are
inappropriately attempting to reclassify the FAC as a legal malpractice
complaint in an effort to get it dismissed. 
The Court finds the First, Second, and Fourth Causes of Action of
the FAC are subject to the one-year statute of limitations under Code of Civil
Procedure section 340.6. Defendants correctly contend that Code of Civil
Procedure section 340.6 is not limited to legal malpractice claims, but rather
includes all causes of action arising out of the provision of legal services,
except for actual fraud. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 340.6, subd. (a); Austin v.
Medicis, supra, 21 Cal.App.5th at p. 587.) The First, Second, and Fourth
Causes of Action for breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing, and breach of the implied covenant of fiduciary duty
are based on Defendants’ alleged provision of legal services during the
underlying unlawful detainer action and are not fraud based claims. (See FAC,
¶¶ 11-30.) The FAC alleges that the judgment was entered against Plaintiff in
the underlying unlawful detainer action on April 18, 2022, and that the motion
to set aside the judgment was denied on December 5, 2022, both of which are
more than one year before Plaintiff filed this lawsuit on January 16, 2024.
(FAC, ¶¶ 22-23.) It is clear from the face of the FAC that Plaintiff either
knew or should have known of Defendants’ alleged wrongdoing for more than one
year before they finally filed this lawsuit. (See United
W. Med. Centers v. Superior Ct., supra, 42
Cal.App.4th at p. 505.) 
Additionally, Plaintiff’s opposition is conclusory
and contains no substantive argument to rebut Defendants’ contentions, which
the Court construes as a tacit admission that Defendants’ contentions are
meritorious. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410;
C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro.
Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10; see also Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v.
Colombo (2003) 111 Cal.App.4th 1210, 1215 [“Contentions are waived
when a party fails to support them with reasoned argument and citations to
authority. [Citation.]”]) The Court further finds that Plaintiff’s opposition
fails to make any offer of proof as to how these pleading defects can be cured,
but instead makes conclusory arguments that facts can be added to cure the
defects. (See Opp., p. 3.) 
The Court
does note, however, that Code of Civil Procedure section 340.6 expressly
excludes actual fraud claims. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 340.6, subd. (a).) This
means it does not apply to Plaintiff’s Third and Fifth Causes of Action for
contractual fraud and conspiracy to commit contractual fraud. 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the First, Second, and Fourth
Causes of Action. The Court will hear from Plaintiff at the hearing on the
demurrer whether facts can be alleged that will cure the defects noted herein
with respect to the First, Second, and Fourth Causes of Action. The Court
OVERRULES the demurrer to the entire First Amended Complaint. The Court
OVERRULES the demurrer as to the Third and Fifth Causes of Action, but only as
to the grounds that they are barred by the statute of limitations. The Court
will still consider Defendants’ demurrer to the Third and Fifth Causes of
Action on the grounds that they fail to state a cause of action, as set forth
below. 
Third and Fifth Causes of Action – Contractual Fraud and
Conspiracy to Commit Contractual Fraud            
            To state a cause of action for fraud, the plaintiff must
allege facts demonstrating, “(1) the defendant represented to the plaintiff
that an important fact was true; (2) that representation was false; (3) the
defendant knew that the representation was false when the defendant made it, or
the defendant made the representation recklessly and without regard for its
truth; (4) the defendant intended that the plaintiff rely on the
representation; (5) the plaintiff reasonably relied on the representation; (6)
the plaintiff was harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's reliance on the defendant's
representation was a substantial factor in causing that harm to the plaintiff.
[Citation.]” (Graham v. Bank of Am., N.A. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594,
605-606, internal quotation marks omitted.) “In California, fraud must be pled
specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice. [Citations.]
Thus the policy of liberal construction of the pleadings ... will not
ordinarily be invoked to sustain a pleading defective in any material respect.
[Citation.] [¶] This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show
how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.
[Citation.] A plaintiff's burden in asserting a fraud claim against a corporate
employer is even greater. In such a case, the plaintiff must allege the names
of the persons who made the allegedly fraudulent representations, their
authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it
was said or written. [Citation.]” (Lazar v. Superior Ct.
(1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645, internal quotation marks omitted and italics in
original (Lazar).) 
            “The elements of a civil conspiracy are (1) the formation
of a group of two or more persons who agreed to a common plan or design to
commit a tortious act; (2) a wrongful act committed pursuant to the agreement;
and (3) resulting damages. [Citation.]” (City of Indus. v. City of
Fillmore, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at p. 212.) “Civil conspiracy is
not an independent tort.” (City of Indus. v. City of
Fillmore (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 191, 211.) 
            Defendants demur to the Third and Fifth Causes of Action
for contractual fraud and conspiracy to commit contractual fraud, respectively,
on the grounds that they fail to state a cause of action. With respect to the
Third Cause of Action for contractual fraud, Defendants contend it fails to
allege Defendants’ specific misrepresentations and is unable to show
justifiable reliance on any purported misrepresentation. Defendants also
contend this cause of action lacks the specificity required for a fraud claim
per Lazar. With respect to the Fifth Cause of Action for conspiracy to
commit contractual fraud, Defendants contend it fails because the FAC does not
allege facts showing that Defendants had knowledge of each Defendants’ alleged
wrongful acts, agreed to both the objective and the course of the action, and
engaged in an act with the intent to further the alleged wrongful agreement.
Defendants also contend that the FAC alleges Ecoff and Kay are partners of Law
Firm, and that it is well settled that agents or employees of a company cannot
conspire with the company while acting in their official capacities on behalf
of the company. 
            In opposition, Plaintiff’s arguments are the same as
those set forth above, namely that Plaintiff contends to have pleaded
sufficient facts to state causes of action for each cause of action of the FAC. 
            The Court agrees with Defendants and finds that the FAC
fails to plead sufficient facts to state a cause of action for contractual
fraud. The FAC fails to identify any specific misrepresentations Defendants
allegedly made to Plaintiff. (See FAC, ¶¶ 11-30.) It fails to allege how the
misrepresentations were made, when, where, to whom, and by what means they were
made. (See Id.; Lazar, supra, 12 Cal.4th at p. 645.) Also, since
Law Firm is alleged to be a business entity, (FAC, ¶ 2), Plaintiff needed to
allege additional facts, such as the names of the person who made the
misrepresentations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they
said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Id.) As the FAC
currently stands, it fails to plead contractual fraud with the requisite
specificity, and thereby fails to state a cause of action. 
            The Court also agrees with Defendants that the FAC fails
to plead sufficient facts to state a cause of action for conspiracy to commit
contractual fraud. Although not mentioned in the demurrer, the Court notes
that, without a predicate cause of action for contractual fraud, Plaintiff has
also necessarily failed to allege civil conspiracy liability. (See Applied
Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 511 [a
civil conspiracy by itself is insufficient to state a cause of action, and requires
the commission of an actual tort].) Even assuming the FAC otherwise stated a
cause of action for contractual fraud, the FAC does not allege sufficient facts
demonstrating a conspiracy between the Defendants. The FAC contains no
allegations demonstrating any sort of an agreement to commit a tortious act
towards Plaintiff. (See FAC, ¶¶ 11-30.) Defendants also correctly contend that
employees or agents of a business entity cannot conspire with that business
entity. (Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd., supra, 7
Cal.4th at p. 511 fn. 4.) The FAC does not allege any facts demonstrating that
Ecoff or Kay were acting outside the scope of their authority as partners of
Law Firm. (See FAC, ¶¶ 11-30.) 
            Additionally, as also noted above, Plaintiff’s opposition
is conclusory and contains no substantive argument to rebut Defendants’
contentions, which the Court construes as a tacit admission that Defendants’ contentions
are meritorious. (Sexton v. Superior Court, supra, 58 Cal.App.4th at p. 1410;
C. Opposing the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro.
Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10; see also Moulton Niguel Water Dist. v.
Colombo, supra, 111 Cal.App.4th at p. 1215 [“Contentions are waived
when a party fails to support them with reasoned argument and citations to
authority. [Citation.]”]) 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer
to the Third and Fifth Causes of Action. The Court will hear from Plaintiff at
the hearing on the demurrer whether these defects can be cured by amendment. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the entire First Amended
Complaint, Third Cause of Action, and Fifth Cause of Action on the grounds that
they are time-barred under Code of Civil Procedure section 340.6. The Court
SUSTAINS the demurrer to the First, Second, and Fourth Causes of Action on the
grounds that they are time-barred under Code of Civil Procedure section 340.6.
The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Third and Fifth Causes of Action for
failure to state a cause of action. The Court will hear from Plaintiff at the
hearing on the demurrer whether the defects noted herein can be corrected. 
            Defendants are ordered to give
notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.