 Case Number:  23STCV23071    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  52 Cross-Defendant
The People of the State of California’s Demurrer to Cross-Complaint
Plaintiff/cross-defendant
The People of the State of California, acting by and through the Department of
Transportation (CalTrans), demurs to the cross-complaint by
defendants/cross-complainants Metro Investments Group, Inc. and Anthony Nowaid.  Cross-complainants served and filed a first
amended cross-complaint months before CalTrans filed this demurrer.  The court exercises its discretion to treat CalTrans’s
pleading as a demurrer to the operative first amended cross-complaint.
Request
for Judicial Notice
CalTrans requests judicial notice of a lease agreement between CalTrans
and cross-complainants.  The State’s
contract is an official act of the executive department subject to judicial
notice under Evidence Code section 452(c). 
The request is granted.  
1st Cause
of Action: Quasi Contract
Cross-complainants
do not allege sufficient facts for this cause of action for two reasons.  First, sovereign immunity bars this claim against public entities.  “[A]ll government tort liability must be
based on statute.”  (County of San
Bernardino v. Superior Court (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 1100, 1107.)  “ ‘[S]overeign immunity is the rule in
California; governmental liability is limited to exceptions specifically set
forth by statute.’ ”  (Id. at p.
1108.)  “[G]enerally a private party
cannot sue a public entity on an implied-in-law or quasi-contract theory,
because such a theory is based on quantum meruit or restitution considerations
which are outweighed by the need to protect and limit a public entity’s
contractual obligations.”  (Janis v.
California State Lottery Com. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 824, 830.)  
This cause of action seeks to hold CalTrans, a
government entity, liable under a quasi-contract theory.  That theory of liability is not available as
a matter of law.
Second, this cause of action fails because the parties have an express
contract on the subject.  “A quantum
meruit or quasi-contractual recovery rests upon the equitable theory that a
contract to pay for services rendered is implied by law for reasons of
justice.  [Citation.]  However, it is well settled that there is no
equitable basis for an implied-in-law promise to pay reasonable value when the
parties have an actual agreement covering compensation.”  (Hedging Concepts, Inc. v. First Alliance
Mortgage Co. (1996) 41 Cal.App.4th 1410, 1419.)
The first amended cross-complaint alleges, “Based on CalTrans’
inducements and requirements that Metro had to remediate the Property prior to
commencement of its operations, Metro made improvements and repairs to the Property
at a cost of $135,440.00.  All of this
was done based in part on CalTrans’ agreement to extend Metro’s lease on the
Property by an additional 15 years.”  (¶¶
37-38.)  “As a result of Metro doing
extensive work on the Property, CalTrans benefited in an amount of at least
$135,440.00.”  (¶ 41.)
The parties’ lease agreement governs this topic.  Article 6 provides, “Tenant shall not place
any improvements in, on, or upon the premises, nor shall Tenant make any
alterations to said premises without the prior written consent.”  (RJN, Ex. 1, p. 17.)  Article 7.1 provides, “All improvements
constructed on the premises by Tenant as permitted or required by this Lease
shall, during the term of this Lease, be and remain the property of Tenant;
provided, however, that Tenant’s rights and powers with respect to the improvements
are subject to the terms and limitations of this Lease and Tenant’s interest in
such improvements shall terminate upon the expiration or earlier termination of
this Lease.  Following completion of
construction, Tenant shall not remove any improvements from the premises nor
waste, destroy or modify any improvements on the premises, except as
specifically permitted by this Lease.  At
the expiration or termination of this lease, all improvements constructed on
the premises by Tenant shall vest in Landlord.  Tenant shall deliver said improvements to
Landlord in good condition and repair, reasonable wear and tear excepted,
without compensation to Tenant, any subtenant or third party, free and clear of
all claims to or against them by Tenant, any subtenant or third party, and
Tenant shall defend and hold Landlord harmless from all liability arising from
such claims or from the exercise by Landlord of its rights under this section.”  (Ibid.)
The contract thus provides that, when the lease ends, Metro “shall
deliver said improvements to Landlord … without compensation to Tenant.”  (RJN, Ex. 1, p. 17.)  Cross-complainants may not bring an action
for such compensation under a quasi-contract theory.  
2nd Cause
of Action: Intentional Interference with Contract
Cross-complainants allege sufficient facts for this cause of action.  The demurrer to the cross-complaint relies on
sovereign immunity.  CalTrans argues,
“[T]here is absolutely no mention of any statutory authority within the
entirety of the Cross-Complaint to support a claim for intentional interference
with contract against the State.”  (Memo,
p. 9.)  That may be true of the
cross-complaint, but the first amended cross-complaint expressly alleges a
statutory basis for liability.  It
alleges, “Pursuant to Government Code section 820(a), Myatt, as a public
employee, is liable for his acts or omissions to the same extent as a private
person.  Pursuant to Government Code
section 815.2(a), CalTrans, as a public entity, is liable for injury
proximately caused by the acts or omissions of Myatt, an employee of the public
entity, within the scope of his employment if the act or omission gives rise to
a cause of action against that employee.” 
(¶ 46.)  
Disposition
            Cross-defendant The People of the State of California, acting by and through the
Department of Transportation’s demurrer to the first amended cross-complaint’s
first cause of action is sustained with 15 days’ leave to amend.  The demurrer to the second cause of action is
overruled.