  Case Number:  24NNCV02064    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  E Case No: 24NNCV02064
Hearing Date: 01/09/2025 – 8:30am
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: ANDREH HAKOOPIAN, an individual; YEROS
HAKOPIAN, an individual; and NVART ISSAIAN, an individual v. ROSETTE V.
HARATOONIAN, an individual; THE WESTERN PRELACY OF THE ARMENIAN APOSTOLIC
CHURCH OF AMERICA; S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, a DBA operating under MICHAEL
SHAAR INC., a California corporation; and DOES 1-50 inclusive
 
[TENTATIVE RULING – 2
Demurrers 1 Motion to Strike]
RELIEF REQUESTED
Defendants, The Western Prelacy of the Armenian Apostolic Church of America
(Western Prelacy) and S.I.G. Property Management, a dba operating under Michael
Shaar Inc. (S.I.G.), demur to the first, third, seventh, and ninth causes of
action in the First Amended Complaint (FAC) on grounds of failure to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
[The
Court notes that Defendants Western Prelacy and S.I.G. filed two identical
demurrers (with the exception that the S.I.G. demurrer presumably accidentally left
out pages 18 and 21); and 1 combined motion to strike. Therefore, the Court
will combine the demurrer ruling into one ruling.]
PROCEDURAL ANALYSIS
Moving Party:  Defendants, Western Prelacy of the Armenian
Apostolic Church of America (Western Prelacy) and S.I.G. Property Management, a
dba operating under Michael Shaar Inc. (S.I.G.) (Collectively referred to as
Movants or Defendants)
Responding Party: Plaintiffs,
Andreh Hakoopian; Yeros Hakopian; and Nvart Issaian (Plaintiffs)
Moving Papers: S.I.G.
Demurrer; Western Prelacy Demurrer; Demurrer Proposed Order; Combined Motion to
Strike; Proposed Order Motion to Strike;
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Reply
Proof of
Service Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address (CCP § 1013, § 1013a, § 1013b): Ok
Meet and Confer
A party filing a
demurrer “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  “The
parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due. If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least five
days prior to the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party
shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a
responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a
demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a
good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why
the parties could not meet and confer.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).) 
Failure
to sufficiently meet and confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a
demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41(a)(4).)
Here,
Defendants’ counsel alleged that a meet and confer occurred. (Zakari Decl. ¶¶
2-3.)
LEGAL STANDARDS FOR DEMURRERS
Demurrer
– Sufficiency
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda, (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
740, 747.)  When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of
Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)  The court “treat[s]
the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law ….”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525.)  In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.  (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and
not the evidence or other extrinsic matters; therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at
747.)  
The
general rule is that the plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts, not
evidentiary facts.  (Doe v. City of
Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.) 
“All that is required of a plaintiff, as a matter of pleading … is that
his complaint set forth the essential facts of the case with reasonable
precision and with sufficient particularity to acquaint the defendant with the
nature, source and extent of his cause of action.”  (Rannard v. Lockheed Aircraft Corp.
(1945) 26 Cal.2d 149, 156-157.)  
On
demurrer, a trial court has an independent duty to “determine whether or not
the … complaint alleges facts sufficient to state a cause of action under any
legal theory.”  (Das v. Bank of
America, N.A. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 727, 734.)  Demurrers do not lie as to only parts of
causes of action, where some valid claim is alleged but “must dispose of an
entire cause of action to be sustained.” 
(Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97,
119.)  “Generally
it is an abuse of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if
there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by
amendment.”  (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.)
Demurrer – Uncertainty
A special demurrer for
uncertainty, CCP section 430.10(f), is disfavored and will only be sustained
where the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e.,
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or
claims are directed against him/her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Moreover, even if the pleading is somewhat
vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs, Andreh
Hakoopian, Yeros Hakopian, and Nvart Issaian, allege they had been tenants at
the subject property from February 1, 2007 until September 30, 2023. (FAC ¶ 1.)
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Rosette V. Haratoonian (Haratoonian) was the
owner, landlord, and manager of the subject property when Plaintiffs initially
rented the unit. (FAC ¶ 2.) Plaintiffs allege that at some point during their
tenancy, Defendant, The Western Prelacy of the Armenian Apostolic Church of
America (Western Prelacy), became owner and landlord of the apartment complex.
(FAC ¶ 3.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant S.I.G. Property Management, dba,
operating under Michael Shaar Inc. (S.I.G.) became the management company
responsible for leasing and maintaining the subject property on behalf of
Western Prelacy. (FAC ¶¶ 4-5.)
Plaintiffs
allege on or around February 1, 2007, Plaintiffs and Defendant Haratoonian
entered into a two-year lease and continued to reside at the subject property
after the expiration of the two-year term as month to month tenants. (See FAC
¶¶ 11-14.) Plaintiffs allege that during the two-year lease and during the
tenancy thereafter until September 30, 2023, they fully and timely paid rent to
Defendant Haratoonian. (FAC ¶ 12.)
Plaintiffs
allege that on or around April 29, 2020, during Plaintiffs’ residency at the
subject property, Western Prelacy became the owner and landlord of the subject
property. (FAC ¶ 16.)
Plaintiffs
allege that at all relevant times during their tenancy, Plaintiffs were still
tenants under the existing lease agreement. (FAC ¶ 19.)
Plaintiffs
allege they were unaware Western Prelacy became the owner and landlord of the
apartment complex since Haratoonian continued to claim that she was the owner,
landlord, and manager of the apartment complex. (FAC ¶ 17.)
Plaintiffs
allege that Western Prelacy and S.I.G. had a duty of care to make sure the
tenants at the subject property were actually on notice when there was a change
in the ownership of the property. (FAC ¶ 18.)
Plaintiffs
allege that, “Subsequently, after Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, took ownership of
the PROPERTY, Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, purportedly notified PLAINTIFFS of
the rent increase to $2,090.00 effective December 1, 2022.” (FAC ¶ 20.)
Plaintiffs
allege that Western Prelacy and S.I.G. were aware or should have been aware
that Haratoonian was continuing to collect rent because Plaintiffs observed
occasions that Haratoonian would interfere with the duties Western Prelacy and
S.I.G. were supposed to perform. (FAC ¶ 21.)
Plaintiffs
allege they relocated because Western Prelacy brought an unlawful detainer
action against them. (FAC ¶ 35.)
ANALYSIS
Just like the prior
papers submitted for the previous demurrer hearing, the parties’ counsel here
continue to submit papers rife with arguments lacking in legal authority. The
parties assert factual conclusions (despite the fact that this case is at the
pleading stage) and legal conclusions (without supporting legal authority to
support their conclusions).
TENTATIVE RULING First Cause of Action – Professional Negligence
& Third Cause of Action Breach of Contract
Defendants demur to the first cause of action for professional negligence. 
For
purposes of providing background context, the Court will cite to a portion of
its tentative ruling on 10/4/2024 that pertained to the negligence cause of in
the original Complaint:
As explained in Giacometti v. Aulla, LLC: 
To state a cause of action for professional negligence, a party
must show “(1) the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence and
diligence as other members of the profession commonly possess and exercise; (2)
breach of that duty; (3) a causal connection between the negligent conduct and
the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the
professional negligence.” (Nichols v. Keller (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 1672, 1682,
19 Cal.Rptr.2d 601.) “The threshold element of a cause of action for negligence
is the existence of a duty to use due care toward an interest of another that
enjoys legal protection against unintentional invasion.” (Bily v. Arthur Young
& Co. (1992) 3 Cal.4th 370, 397, 11 Cal.Rptr.2d 51, 834 P.2d 745 (Bily ).) 
(Giacometti v. Aulla, LLC (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 1133, 1137.) 
Here, Defendants only attack the element of duty. 
“While negligence is ordinarily a question of fact, the existence
of a duty is generally a question of law that may be addressed by demurrer.”
(Paul v. Patton (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 1088, 1095.) The problem the Court faces
here today in analyzing whether or not Plaintiffs alleged a duty in the instant
scenario is that neither side provides any legal authority as to what
determines whether a duty has been alleged as a matter of law. Both sides make
arguments not rooted in legal authority and assert irrelevant arguments and
make factual assertions that have not been determined at the pleading stage.
Defendants simply argue that there is no duty to demand rent, under either the
Lease Agreement or California landlord-tenant law. Defendants argue that
Plaintiffs seek to create a made-up duty to actively collect rent from tenants.
Defendants do not provide any support for their argument despite the fact that
they are the moving party. Plaintiffs’ Opposition is equally unhelpful. With
respect to the allegations in ¶¶ 28 and 30 listed under the first cause of
action as to how the moving Defendants’ duty arose, ¶¶ 28 and ¶ 30 are
unhelpful. “Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, owed a duty to PLAINTIFF as the owner
of the property to manage and maintain this PROPERTY under reasonable prudent
person or entity standards by ensuring no one interfered with their obligations
and their tenant’s obligations.” (Compl. ¶ 28.) “Defendant, S.I.G. PROPERTY
MANAGEMENT, owed a duty to PLAINTIFF to act under industry standard by
maintaining and managing the PROPERTY and to collect rent on a monthly basis.)
(Compl. ¶ 30.) In Opposition, Plaintiffs appear to be arguing that Defendants’
duty to Plaintiffs arise from the allegations in ¶ 23. “PLAINTIFFS are informed
and believe that Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, was aware or should have been
aware that Defendant, HARATOONIAN, was continuing to collect rent because
PLAINTIFFS observed occasions that Defendant, HARATOONIAN, would interfere with
the duties Defendant, S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, was supposed to perform.”
(Compl. ¶ 23.)
Tentative Ruling First Cause of Action 
The Court will hear argument.
The crux of Plaintiffs’ Complaint appears to be that Western
Prelacy and S.I.G. should be liable to Plaintiffs for Plaintiffs paying rent to
the wrong party (Haratoonian). Plaintiffs appear to be arguing that the basis
of Defendants’ duty to Plaintiffs arises from the allegations in ¶ 23 which
state, “PLAINTIFFS are informed and believe that Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY,
was aware or should have been aware that Defendant, HARATOONIAN, was continuing
to collect rent because PLAINTIFFS observed occasions that Defendant,
HARATOONIAN, would interfere with the duties Defendant, S.I.G. PROPERTY
MANAGEMENT, was supposed to perform.” There are several problems with
Plaintiffs’ arguments. First, even if the Court assumes the truth of
Plaintiffs’ argument – that a duty can be alleged against a defendant
landlord/owner/property manager when the defendant landlord/owner/property
manager was aware or should have been aware that plaintiffs are paying rent to
the wrong party – Plaintiffs fail to realize that their allegations in ¶ 23
allege only that Western Prelacy was aware or should have been aware that
Haratoonian was continuing to collect rent. Assuming the truth of Plaintiffs’
argument as to how a duty can arise in this scenario, Plaintiffs do not allege
a cause of action as to S.I.G. because Plaintiffs only allege knowledge as to
Western Prelacy. As previously mentioned, neither party helps the Court in
explaining what considerations the Court is to use to determine the existence
and scope of a duty. Based on the Court’s own research, the Court points the
parties to Parsons: 
Some of the considerations that courts have employed in various
contexts to determine the existence and scope of duty are: “the foreseeability
of harm to the plaintiff, the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered
injury, the closeness of the connection between the defendant's conduct and the
injury suffered, the moral blame attached to the defendant's conduct, the
policy of preventing future harm, the extent of the burden to the defendant and
consequences to the community of imposing a duty to exercise care with
resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost, and prevalence of
insurance for the risk involved. (Parsons v. Crown Disposal Co. (1997) 15
Cal.4th 456, 472-73.) The Court also highlights that, in conducting its own
research, it cannot find a duty of a landlord/owner/property manager to collect
rent from its tenants. Although Plaintiffs are likely to argue that the duty
arises from Western Prelacy being aware that the wrong party (Haratoonian) was
collecting rent, the Court is not entirely convinced that this forms a basis
for Defendants’ duty to Plaintiffs.
Through no help of the moving or opposing parties, the Court
acknowledges there is a line of cases discussing the duty of a landlord to
protect a tenant from criminal activity only where the landlord’s negligence
facilitates the criminal act. (See Rosenbaum v. Security Pacific Corp. (1996)
43 Cal.App.4th 1084, 1091.) However, the Court is uncertain as to the
applicability of that line of cases in the instant scenario because the two
scenarios are entirely different. For example, in Rosenbaum a tenant was robbed
and shot while exiting her automobile after parking on the street in front of
her apartment and brought an action against the landlord based on the
landlord’s alleged negligence in failing to adequately light driveway, garage,
and common areas. Through no help of the moving or opposing parties, there is
also a line of cases discussing how a landlord owes a duty of care to a tenant
to provide and maintain safe conditions on the leased premises. (See Portillo
v. Aiassa (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1134.) However, here, the Court is also
uncertain as to the applicability of that line of cases as applied to the
instant scenario because the two scenarios are different. For example, in
Portillo, the tenant’s invitee brought action against landlord for injuries
sustained when the tenant’s dog attacked the invitee. Unlike Rosenbam or
Portillo, the instant case isn’t based on physical injuries to Plaintiffs based
on what occurred on the landlord’s property.
 “The general rule is that
privity of contract is a requisite to a professional negligence claim.”
(Giacometti v. Aulla, LLC (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 1133, 1137.)
The Court will hear argument. The Court is inclined to find that
Plaintiffs did not allege a duty against Movants. It appears as if Plaintiffs’
right to enforce their lease agreement and stay at the subject property without
getting evicted would lie in the lease agreement; that is, the Court is
confused as to why Plaintiffs are not bringing a breach-of-contract cause of
action against the party who holds their lease if Plaintiffs did in fact pay
rent. Plaintiffs appear to be attempting to push liability onto Movants for
Movants not collecting the rent they were owed by arguing that Movants knew the
wrong party was collecting rent. The Court cannot find cases that support a
duty to plaintiffs arising from of a landlord/owner/property manager when
landlords/owners/property managers are aware that plaintiffs are paying rent to
the wrong party. It appears as if the plaintiffs’ cause of action in that
scenario is more appropriate against the party that was allegedly defrauding
plaintiffs.
(10/4/2024
Min. Order, p. 5-7.)
At the 10/4/2024 hearing, the Court sustained
the demurrer with leave to amend as to the first cause of action for
negligence.
In the FAC, the Plaintiffs add new allegations
as to how the duty of the Defendants arose. 
In relevant part, the Plaintiffs allege in their
FAC:
56. PLAINTIFFS are unaware when Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, became
owner and landlord of the apartment complex since Defendant, HARATOONIAN,
continued to claim that she was the owner, landlord, and manager of the
PROPERTY.
57. Defendants, WESTERN PRELACY and S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT,
had a duty of care to make sure the tenants at the PROPERTY were actually on
notice when there was a change in the ownership of the PROPERTY.
58. Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, owed a duty to PLAINTIFFS as the
owner of the property to manage and maintain this PROPERTY to use skill,
prudence and diligence as other members in its profession commonly profess and
exercise by ensuring no one interfered with their obligations and their
tenant’s obligations.
59. Defendant, S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, owed a duty to
PLAINTIFFS as the management company responsible for managing and maintaining
the PROPERTY to use skill, prudence and diligence as other members in its
profession commonly profess and exercise maintaining and managing the PROPERTY
and to collect rent on a monthly basis.
60. Defendants, WESTERN PRELACY and S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT,
owed a duty to PLAINTIFFS since it would have been foreseeable for Defendants,
WESTERN PRELACY and S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, that PLAINTIFFS  would have been harmed by their omission or
inaction in taking the reasonable measures in preventing Defendant,
HARATOONIAN, from interfering in managing the PROPERTY because PLAINTIFFS would
not have wrongfully paid Defendant, HARATOONIAN, instead of Defendants, WESTERN
PRELACY and S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, which resulted in PLAINTIFFS being
harmed.
61. Defendants, WESTERN PRELACY and S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT,
owed a duty to PLAINTIFFS since the confusion as to the ownership of the
PROPERTY was created by Defendants, WESTERN PRELACY and HARATOONIAN.
62. Defendants, WESTERN PRELACY, and Defendant, S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT,
failed to take any measures to make sure Defendant, HARATOONIAN, was not
interfering in their managerial duties, such as maintaining and collecting rent
from tenants.
…
70. Defendants, WESTERN PRELACY and S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT,
knew or should have known that Defendant, HARATOONIAN, was intentionally
interfering with PLAINTIFFS or other tenant(s) from receiving any notice from
the Defendants, WESTERN PRELACY and S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, since this
issue was brought to the attention of Defendants, WESTERN PRELACY and S.I.G.
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, by the tenant(s) of the PROPERTY
71. Defendants, WESTERN PRELACY and S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT,
shared a privity of estate with PLAINTIFFS since Defendants, WESTERN PRELACY
and S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, were the owner and management company
respectfully while PLAINTIFFS were the tenants at the PROPERTY.
74. Defendant’s, WESTERN PRELACY’s, unlawful detainer complaint
states that PLAINTIFFS owed Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, $1,600.00, which was
due on 1st day of each month based on the expired lease agreement that was
entered into between PLAINTIFFS and Defendant, HARATOONIAN. However, Defendant,
WESTERN PRELACY, claimed in its Three Day Notice To Pay Rent Or Quit that the
rent owed was in the amount of $1,900.00 for the months of April, May, and June
of 2022 (See Exhibit C).
(FAC ¶¶56-62, 70-71, & 74)
As an initial matter, Defendants’ instant
demurrer– which argues that the existence of a duty was not sufficiently
alleged in the professional negligence claim – is largely unhelpful to the
Court. Many times Defendants’ arguments are incomprehensible and not rooted in
legal authority. 
Likewise, Plaintiffs’ Opposition is not the
model of clarity.
Just like the prior demurrer, Defendants attack
the element of duty and argue that there is no duty to seek out or collect
rent.
After further consideration, the Court notes
that trying to figure out as a matter of law if there is a duty to collect rent
appears to be the wrong question for the Court to consider.
The proper question appears to be whether or not
there is a duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence
as other members of the profession commonly possess and exercise for landlords,
owners, and managers. To this question, the answer is yes. 
However, whether or not Plaintiffs successfully
alleged the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence
as other members of the profession commonly possess and exercise, the Court
will discuss below.
As an initial matter, Plaintiffs explicitly
allege the following, “Defendant, WESTERN PRELACY, owed a duty to PLAINTIFFS as
the owner of the property to manage and maintain this PROPERTY to use skill,
prudence and diligence as other members in its profession commonly profess and
exercise by ensuring no one interfered with their obligations and their
tenant’s obligations.” (FAC ¶ 58.)
The Court notes that this allegation is
conclusory. 
However, Plaintiffs make other allegations that
appear to support the argument that Plaintiffs successfully alleged a
professional duty of care.
For example, Plaintiffs allege that Western
Prelacy became the owner and landlord of the subject property when Plaintiffs
were tenants, and Plaintiffs allege that S.I.G. became manager of the apartment
complex of the subject property after Western Prelacy became the owner and
landlord. (See FAC ¶¶ 3-4.) These allegations tend to support the argument that
Plaintiffs alleged a basis for Defendants to have a duty of care to Plaintiffs
as a matter of law. 
Further, Plaintiffs allege that Western Prelacy
and S.I.G. were aware or should have been aware that Defendant Haratoonian was
continuing to collect rent because Plaintiffs observed occasions that
Haratoonian would interfere with the duties of that Western Prelacy and S.I.G.
were supposed to perform. (FAC ¶ 21.) These allegations also tend to support
the argument that Plaintiffs alleged a basis for Defendants to have a duty of
care to Plaintiffs as a matter of law.
By focusing on the issue of whether or not there
is a duty to collect rent relies on a strained reading of the FAC.
Whether or not Defendants failed to collect rent
appears to go to the element of breach, not the question of duty as a matter of
law. Or to phrase it differently, it appears that whether or not Defendants
failed to collect rent appears to be a consideration as to whether Defendants
breached their duty to use the skill, prudence, and diligence as other members
in its profession commonly profess and exercise as landlords, owners, and
managers.
To highlight the point the Court is trying to
make the Court points to Paragraphs ¶ 62- 63 of the FAC:
62. Defendants, WESTERN PRELACY, and Defendant, S.I.G. PROPERTY
MANAGEMENT, failed to take any measures to make sure Defendant, HARATOONIAN, was
not interfering in their managerial duties, such as maintaining and collecting
rent from tenants.
63. Defendants, WESTERN PRELACY and S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT,
did not take any reasonable measures to ensure PLAINTIFFS were made aware of
the change in the ownership and the party responsible for collecting the rent
payment. 
(FAC ¶¶ 62-63.)
In reference to Paragraphs 62-63, the question
isn’t whether Defendants had a duty to take measures to make sure Haratoonian
was not interfering in managerial duties or whether Defendants had a duty to ensure
Plaintiffs were made aware of the change in ownership. Plaintiffs are alleging
that Defendants did not in fact take those measures, and whether or not those
measures were taken appear to be relevant in evaluating if Defendants breached
their duty to use the skill, prudence, and diligence as other members in its
profession commonly profess and exercise as owners, landlords, and managers of
the property. [The elements of breach of that duty and causation are ordinarily
questions of fact for the jury’s determination. (Phillips v. TLC Plumbing,
Inc. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1133, 1139.)]
However, as cited in the Court’s prior ruling on
Defendants’ demurrer, “The general rule is that privity of contract is a
requisite to a professional negligence claim.” (Giacometti v. Aulla, LLC
(2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 1133, 1137.)
Therefore, it appears as if Plaintiffs successfully
alleged the element of duty in a professional negligence claim if Plaintiffs
alleged privity of contact.
Here, unlike in the original Complaint,
Plaintiffs bring a breach of contract claim. The singular argument that
Defendants bring up on demurrer as to how Plaintiffs did not allege a breach of
contract claim is that Plaintiffs don’t mention a provision of the lease which
is the basis for their breach of contract claim. 
Defendants cite to ¶ 108 of the FAC which states,
“Defendants, WESTERN PRELACY and S.I.G. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT, breached the terms
of the said agreement by failing to take any reasonable measures to make sure
Defendant, HARATOONIAN, was not interfering in their managerial duties, such as
maintaining and collecting rent from tenants.”
Defendants then argue that the only reference to
a breach does not offer any provision of the lease which would require
Defendants to take any reasonable measures to make sure Defendant Hartoonian
was not interfering in their managerial duties.
Problematic with Defendants’ argument is that
Defendants provide zero legal authority to support their
argument that Plaintiffs must allege a provision of the lease which is breached
to state a cause of action for breach of contract.
In fact, not a single source of legal authority
is cited at all by Defendants in their argument as to how Plaintiffs did not
allege a cause of action for breach of contact. 
In light of the fact that Defendants provided
zero legal authority to support their argument on demurrer as to the breach of
contract claim, the Court does not find Defendants’ argument availing. 
Plaintiffs’ FAC alleged that, “At all relevant
times during their tenancy at the PROPERTY, PLAINTIFFS were still tenants under
the existing lease agreement.” (FAC ¶ 19.)
Therefore, in light of ¶ 19, and in light of the
fact that Defendants provided zero legal authority as to how Plaintiffs did not
allege a breach of contract cause of action, the Court finds that Plaintiffs
successfully alleged their breach of contract claim and thus successfully alleged
privity of contract in order to successfully allege a professional negligence
claim. 
Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of
action for professional negligence is OVERRULED and Defendants’ demurrer to the
third cause of action for breach of contract is OVERRULED. 
TENTATIVE RULING – SEVENTH CAUSE OF ACTION
INTENTIONAL INFLICTION OF EMOTIONAL DISTRESS
Plaintiffs alleged a
cause of action for IIED against all Defendants.
As a preliminary matter, the Court finds it
improper that Plaintiffs are bringing a cause of action for IIED against
Western Prelacy. On 8/15/2024, this Court granted Western Prelacy’s special
motion to strike the IIED claim and denied leave to amend.
Therefore, Defendants’ demurrer to the seventh
cause of action for IIED as alleged against Western Prelacy is SUSTAINED, and
leave to amend is not granted.
With respect to the IIED claim as alleged
against S.I.G., Defendants argue that Plaintiffs did not allege a cause of
action for IIED because the only outrageous conduct that Plaintiffs allege is
Defendants failure to abide by a duty which does not exist under California law
nor under the lease between the two parties. 
The case of Yau v. Santa Margarita Ford, Inc.
describes the elements of an IIED claim:
“ ‘ “[T]o state a cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress a plaintiff must show: (1) outrageous conduct by the
defendant; (2) the defendant's intention of causing or reckless disregard of
the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff's suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (4) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct.” ’ [Citation.] ‘
“Conduct, to be ‘ “outrageous” ’ must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized society.” ’ [Citation.] In order to
avoid a demurrer, the *161 plaintiff must allege with ‘great[ ]
specificity’ the acts which he or she believes are so extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community. [Citation.]” (Vasquez
v. Franklin Management Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th
819, 832, 166 Cal.Rptr.3d 242 (Vasquez ).)
(Yau v. Santa Margarita Ford, Inc. (2014)
229 Cal.App.4th 144, 160-61.)
The Court fails to understand Defendants’
arguments. Defendants argue about how Plaintiffs cannot point to a duty;
however, duty is not an element of an IIED claim. IIED has nothing to do with
duty, as seen in the elements for an IIED claim.
Further, Defendants’ argument that the alleged
conduct is not “outrageous conduct” appears to be an argument of degree.
Therefore, whether the conduct was outrageous enough or not does not appear to
be a question of law for the Court to determine at the pleading stage, but
instead appears to be a question of fact for the trier of fact.
Defendants’ demurrer to the seventh cause of
action for IIED as to S.I.G. is OVERRULED.
TENTATIVE RULING NINTH CAUSE OF ACTION for
DECLARATORY RELIEF
“Any person interested
under a written instrument, excluding a will or a trust, or under a contract,
or who desires a declaration of his or her rights or duties with respect to
another, or in respect to, in, over or upon property, or with respect to the location
of the natural channel of a watercourse, may, in cases of actual controversy
relating to the legal rights and duties of the respective parties, bring an
original action or cross-complaint in the superior court for a declaration of
his or her rights and duties in the premises, including a determination of any
question of construction or validity arising under the instrument or contract.
He or she may ask for a declaration of rights or duties, either alone or with
other relief; and the court may make a binding declaration of these rights or
duties, whether or not further relief is or could be claimed at the time. The
declaration may be either affirmative or negative in form and effect, and the
declaration shall have the force of a final judgment. The declaration may be
had before there has been any breach of the obligation in respect to which said
declaration is sought.”
(CCP § 1060.)
Plaintiffs allege:
175. PLAINTIFFS incorporates by reference all allegations of the
preceding paragraphs as though fully set forth herein. 
176. Under California Code of Civil Procedure §1060, et seq., this
Court may declare rights, duties, statuses, and other legal relations,
regardless of whether further relief is or could be claimed. 
177. An actual controversy has arisen between PLAINTIFFS and
Defendants as to their rights, duties, responsibilities, and obligations under
the lease agreement and tenant-landlord relationship (See Exhibit A). 
178. Resolution of the duties, responsibilities, and obligations
under the lease agreement and tenant-landlord relationship is necessary as no
adequate remedy at law exists and a declaration of the Court is needed to
resolve the dispute and controversy. 
179. As alleged in detail above, PLAINTIFFS have performed all
obligations under the lease agreement & tenant-landlord relationship. 
180. PLAINTIFFS paid all the rent payments and have met all their
obligations under the lease agreement and tenant-landlord relationship in
exchange for Defendants to allow PLAINTIFFS to stay at the subject PROPERTY. 
181. PLAINTIFFS have complied with all their obligations under the
lease agreement & tenant-landlord relationship. 
182. Defendants failed to uphold their obligations by allowing
PLAINTIFFS to continue to occupy the PROPERTY. 
183. An actual case or controversy exists regarding PLAINTIFFS’
rights and DEFENDANTS’ obligations under the lease agreement &
tenant-landlord relationship. 
184. PLAINTIFFS are informed and believe that DEFENDANTS will
dispute and deny each of PLAINTIFFS’ contentions set forth. 
185. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §1060, PLAINTIFFS,
therefore, seek a declaratory judgment regarding each of PLAINTIFFS’
contentions set forth in this Cause of Action.
(FAC ¶¶ 175-185.)
Defendants argue that the FAC does not allege
any particular provision of the lease agreement which is actually in dispute.
Defendants argue that there must be an actual controversy, and that Plaintiffs
fail to point to one beyond paying rent to the wrong person.
Here, it isn’t entirely clear what Defendants’
argument is. If Defendants are arguing that there is no actual controversy
arising under the lease, it appears that whether a cause of action is alleged
under Defendants’ reasoning depends on whether Plaintiffs successfully alleged
a breach of contract cause of action.
Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED as to this
cause of action.
MOTION TO STRIKE
Legal Standard Motion to Strike
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).)  A motion to strike cannot be based upon the
grounds that a complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, but instead is properly based on grounds of superfluous or abusive
allegations, or improprieties in form or procedure.  (Ferraro
v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509,
528-29.)   
The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice.  (Code. Civ. Proc. § 437; Turman v. Turning Point of
Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63 [“judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth”].)   
Further, CCP
§431.10(a)-(c) states as follows:
(a) A material allegation in a pleading is one essential
to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the pleading
without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.
(b) An immaterial allegation in a pleading is any of the
following:
(1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement
of a claim or defense.
(2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor
supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.
(3) A demand for judgment requesting relief not
supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.
(c) An “immaterial allegation” means “irrelevant matter”
as that term is used in Section 436.
 
(CCP §431.10(a)-(c).)
 
Punitive
Damages
In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example by way of punishing the defendant. (Cal. Civ. Code
§3294(a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (CCP §3294(c)(1).)
“‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (CCP
§3294(c)(2).) “‘Fraud’ means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury. (CCP §3294(c)(3).)
“In order to survive a motion to strike
an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to
such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.”  (Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal. App. 4th 1253, 1255.) Conclusory allegations, devoid of any
factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted
with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Sup. Ct. (1992) 10 Cal. App.
4th 1033, 1042.) 
Tentative Ruling Motion to Strike
Defendants move to
strike line 20, number 5, in the Prayer of the FAC on page 25 of the FAC that
states, “For punitive damages, in a sum to be proven at the time of trial.”
Defendants state that the FAC does not mention
nor allege a claim for punitive damages anywhere within the factual allegations
of any of their eight causes of action. Defendants state that the Prayer does
not reference which cause of action gives rise to the request for punitive
damages.
Defendants state they presume that the Plaintiffs
seek punitive damages against Defendants under their seventh cause of action
for IIED, and Defendants argue that the IIED claim does not support punitive
damages. 
The Court will hear argument. 
The Defendants are correct to note that the
prayer requesting punitive damages does not specify which cause of action is
requesting punitive damages. The Defendants are also correct to note that each
cause of action in the body of the FAC does not specify which cause of action
is requesting punitive damages. 
However, Defendants fail to realize that fraud
is alleged in the fourth cause of action. The fraud cause of action in the
fourth cause of action is still operative. 
Therefore, the punitive damages request could be
based on the fraud cause of action. 
The Court is hesitant to strike the punitive
damages request when fraud is still an operative cause of action that has not
been demurred to. Defendants do not provide legal authority that Plaintiffs
have to specifically state which cause of action the punitive damages request
applies to at the pleading stage. However, the Court will hear argument if
leave to amend should be granted for Plaintiffs to specify which cause(s)
of action the punitive damages request applies to.
 