  Case Number:  22STCV22987    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  57  
 
In her operative Second Amended
Complaint (“the SAC”), Jennifer Han (“Plaintiff”) alleges that she entered into
an agreement with Jessica Park (Park) for the purchase of  a business, D.J.K., Inc (“DJK”).  Plaintiff further  alleges that, in connection with this transaction,
Park deliberately hid information from Plaintiff (a) that the business requires
a specific professional license; (b) the business owed $150,000.00 on an
Economic Injury  Disaster Loan (EIDL);
and (c) the sales volume of the business was less than $25,000 per year.  The SAC names Park and DJK as Defendants,
along with Dae Hyeon Lee.  The SAC asserts
the following five causes of action:  (1)
contractual fraud (as against all Defendants); (2) negligence and negligence per
se (as against Park; (3) breach of contract (as against Park); (4) breach of
the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing (as against Park); and (5) quasi
contract (as against all Defendants).  
 
Pending before the Court is the
demurrer of Park and DJK (collectively, “the Defendants”) to the SAC.  For the reasons set forth below, the Court is
sustaining the demurrer with leave to amend. 
 
ANALYSIS OF THE
DEMURRER TO THE SAC
 
(1) First Cause of
Action: Contractual Fraud
          “The
elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c)
intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.”
(Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr.
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  The
facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically
as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)  To properly allege fraud against a
corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly
making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke,
what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153,
157.)
 
          Defendants argue that the SAC’s  cause of action for contractual fraud fails
because it lacks the specificity required for fraud actions.  The Court agrees.  
 
The SAC alleges that critical information
about DJK was withheld from the Plaintiff. 
The SAC does not allege with specificity, however, who withheld the
information.   This void is particularly glaring with respect
to DJK because, as discussed above, a fraud claim against a corporation must be
supported by allegations setting forth who made the misrepresentations, the authority
of that person to speak for the corporation, and when the misrepresentations were
made.   Additionally, the SAC fails to
allege that Plaintiff justifiably relied on the purported misrepresentations.
 
(2)  Second Cause of Action: Negligence and
Negligence Per Se
 
          In order to state a claim for
negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal
duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in
an injury.” (McIntyre v.
Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)
 
          The SAC alleges that Park should have
informed Plaintiff, who was a “totally unknowledgeable person,”  that DJK required a professional license and  it owed a debt for the EIDL. (SAC, ¶¶32-33.)  However, Plaintiff fails to allege and
identify any legal duty that Park owed to Plaintiff. 
 
          Plaintiff fares no better with her
invocation of the doctrine of negligence per se.   “The
negligence per se doctrine, as codified in Evidence Code section 669, creates a
presumption of negligence if four elements are established: (1) the defendant
violated a statute, ordinance, or regulation of a public entity; (2) the
violation proximately caused death or injury to person or property; (3) the
death or injury resulted from an occurrence of the nature of which the statute,
ordinance, or regulation was designed to prevent; and (4) the person suffering
the death or the injury to his person or property was one of the class of
persons for whose protection the statute, ordinance, or regulation was
adopted.” (Spates v. Dameron Hospital
Association (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208, 218, quotation marks omitted.) “The
doctrine of negligence per se is not a separate cause of action, but creates an
evidentiary presumption that affects the standard of care in a cause of action
for negligence.” (Johnson v. Honeywell
International Inc. (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 549, 555, quotation marks and
brackets omitted.)  Here, negligence per
se is  inapplicable because the statue
alleged to have been violated, Civil Code Section 1770,  prohibits deceptive practices by businesses
advertising or offering goods or services.  It does not cover transactions for the sale of
a business. 
 
          The SAC’s cause of action for
negligence is vitiated as well by the Court’s order of March 6, 2004 granting
the motions of Park and DJK to deem admitted the matters set forth in the
Defendants’ requests for admissions.  (“the
RFA Orders”)  Those matters include that
Plaintiff: (a) does not have a document showing any purchase of a business; (b)
that Plaintiff did not purchase DJK; and (c) Plaintiff did not assume any debt
from the EIDL
 
(3)  Third Cause of Action: Breach of Contract
 
          To state a cause of action for breach
of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the
contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)  If a breach of
contract claim “is based on alleged breach of a written contract, the terms
must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written
agreement must be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999)
74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) I n some circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead
the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v.
TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.)
 
          The third cause of action fails
because Plaintiff has not demonstrated the existence of a contract. The
contract is not set out verbatim nor attached to the SAC.  And its legal effect is not described either.  Further, the RFA Orders undercut the
allegations in the SAC that purport to support the cause of action for breach
of contract. 
 
(4) Fourth Cause of
Action: Violation of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
          “A breach of the implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing involves something beyond breach of the contractual
duty itself and it has been held that bad faith implies unfair dealing rather
than mistaken judgment.” (Careau &
Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371,
1394.) “If the allegations do not go beyond the statement of a mere contract
breach and, relying on the same alleged acts, simply seek the same damages or
other relief already claimed in a companion contract cause of action, they may
be disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim is actually stated … [T]he
only justification for asserting a separate cause of action for breach of the
implied covenant is to obtain a tort recovery.” (Id. at pp. 1394-1395.) To recover in tort for breach of the implied
covenant, the defendant must “have acted unreasonably or without proper cause.”
(Id. at p. 1395, citations and
italics omitted.)
 
          Here, the SAC provides no additional
facts nor allegations outside of the alleged breach of contract that support a
claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  Because the claim for breach of contract fails
due to the lack of allegations as to the existence of a contract, the cause of
action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing fails
as well. 
 
(5) Fifth Cause of
Action: Quasi Contract 
 
          “Quantum meruit refers to the
well-established principle that the law implies a promise to pay for services
performed under circumstances disclosing that they were not gratuitously
rendered.  To recover in quantum meruit,
a party need not prove the existence of a contract, but it must show the
circumstances were such that the services were rendered under some
understanding or expectation of both parties that compensation therefore was to
be made.” (Chodos v. Borman (2014)
227 Cal.App.4th 76, 96, citations and quotation marks omitted.) “[I]n order to
recover under a quantum meruit theory, a plaintiff must establish both that he
or she was acting pursuant to either an express or implied request for such
services from the defendant and that the services rendered were intended to and
did benefit the defendant.” (Day v. Alta
Bates Medical Center (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 243, 248.)
 
          Here, the cause of action for
quasi-contract fails  because the Plaintiff
has admitted, through the RFA Orders, that she did not purchase a business and
that the Defendants gave Plaintiff all of the items in the bill of sale in exchange
for money that Plaintiff paid.
 
LEAVE TO AMEND 
 
          Leave to amend must be allowed where
there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any
reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”].  The RFA Orders make it hard for the Plaintiff to
state her claims.  But the Court will
give her one more chance.  Plaintiff
shall file and serve a Third Amended Complaint by July 18, 2024.  
 
CASE MANAGEMENT
AND SCHEDULING 
 
The Court is setting a case management
conference for September 4, 2024.  On
that day, the Court will hear two discovery motions that Defendants have filed.
 The first motion is set for hearing on
September 3, 2024.  That hearing on that
motion is hereby moved to September 4, 2024, which is the date of the hearing
on the second motion.   The Court is
vacating the August 9, 2024 final status conference and August 19, 2024 trial
date.   The Court will consider resetting
the final status conference and trial date at the September 4, 2024 case
management conference. 