 Case Number:  22STCV13174    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling: 
            Plaintiffs
Jane C.R. Doe and Jane M.R. Doe’s Motion to Consolidate Related Cases for Trial
Plaintiffs Jane C.R. Doe and Jane M.R. Doe
move to consolidate their two actions for trial.  The court has found Jane C.R. Doe v. Los
Angeles Unified School District, et al., No. 22STCV13174 related to Jane
M.R. Doe v. CATCH Prep Charter High School, Inc., et al., No.
23STCV14304.  
Code of
Civil Procedure section 1048(a) provides, “When actions involving a common
question of law or fact are pending before the court, it may order a joint
hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue in the actions; it may
order all the actions consolidated and it may make such orders concerning
proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.”  On the other hand, even within a single
action, courts may order separate trials of causes of action or issues “in
furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will
be conducive to expedition and economy.” 
(Id., subd. (b).)
The two cases involve some common
questions of fact and law.  Both plaintiffs allege defendant David Lee
Scott sexually assaulted them when he worked at schools they attended.  Both plaintiffs allege various theories of
liability against Los Angeles Unified School District and CATCH
Prep Charter High School, Inc.  These two
defendants’ liability turns in part on whether
each employer knew or should have known “the particular risk of molestation
by an employee with a history of this specific conduct.”  (Evan F. v. Hughson United Methodist
Church (1992) 8 Cal.App.4th 828, 837.)
The court cannot decide whether to consolidate these
cases now.  That decision depends on whether
certain evidence will be admissible in each trial.  “The fact that evidence
in the one case might not have been admissible in the other does not bar a
consolidation.”  (Jud Whitehead Heater
Co. v. Obler (1952) 111 Cal.App.2d 861, 867.)  In these circumstances, however, the
potentially inadmissible evidence would be so prejudicial that it would weigh
heavily against consolidation.  
Plaintiffs
plan to introduce testimony in M.R.’s case about David Lee Scott’s alleged
abuse of C.R., and vice versa. 
Plaintiffs contend the evidence is admissible in each trial to prove
what the employers knew or should have known about Scott.  Plaintiffs also argue the evidence is
admissible for impeachment and that it falls within the exceptions in Evidence
Code section 1101(b).  (Reply, pp. 3-5.)  If that evidence is admissible in each case,
consolidation would likely be appropriate and efficient.  But if such evidence were inadmissible in
either case, consolidating the trials would prejudice defendants.  
The
court therefore will not rule on this motion until after it decides the
evidentiary issues.  Those issues are not
before the court now.  The court will
exercise its discretion to require defendants to move in limine to exclude evidence
about the alleged abuse of C.R. from M.R.’s trial and to exclude evidence about
the alleged abuse of M.R. from C.R.’s trial. 
The court will then rule on the motion(s) in limine and plaintiffs’
motion to consolidate the trials.    
Disposition
Plaintiffs’
motion to consolidate trial is hereby continued to June 21, 2024, at 9:00
a.m.
Defendants
shall file any motions in limine regarding evidence of alleged abuse of each plaintiff
in the other plaintiff’s case no later than May 27.  Any such motions will be heard on June 21,
2024, at 9:00 a.m.
The
final status conference (first) set for July 10, 2024, is hereby continued
to August 19, 2024, at 9:00 a.m.  The
final status conference (second) set for July 24, 2024, is hereby continued
to September 3, 2024, at 9:00 a.m.  The
jury trial set for August 14, 2024, is hereby continued to September 18,
2024, at 10:00 a.m.  All pretrial
deadlines that have not already passed are continued to follow the new trial
date.
 