 Case Number:  23STCP03007    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling:
Petitioner
Clare | Matrix’s Motion for New Trial 
Petitioner
Clare | Matrix (Clare) moves for
a new trial under Code of Civil Procedure section 657.
Clare May Move for a New Trial
Respondent 2644 SM Partners LP (2644) argues the procedure
of moving for a new trial does not apply after the court confirms an
arbitration award.  Clare is permitted to
move for a new trial.  Code of Civil
Procedure section 657 provides, “The verdict may be vacated and any other
decision may be modified or vacated, in whole or in part, and a new or
further trial granted on all or part of the issues, on the application of the
party aggrieved, for” specified reasons. 
(Italics added.)  This procedure
generally applies to judgments entered without any trial.  (See, e.g., Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 858 [“A motion for a new trial is
appropriate following an order granting summary judgment”]; Don v. Cruz (1982) 131
Cal.App.3d 695, 704 [“use
of the new trial motion after a default judgment is not precluded by the
absence of a trial in the traditional sense”].)
The California Arbitration Act (CAA) contains no
exception to this general rule.  “[C]ourts must strive to give meaning to every word in a statute
and to avoid constructions that render words, phrases, or clauses
superfluous.”  (Klein v. United States
of America (2010) 50 Cal.4th 68, 80.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1294.2 provides, “Upon
an appeal from any order or judgment under this title, the court may review the
decision and any intermediate ruling, proceeding, order or decision which
involves the merits or necessarily affects the order or judgment appealed from,
or which substantially affects the rights of a party.  The court may also on such appeal review any order
on motion for a new trial.”  (Ibid.,
italics added.)  This section thus
includes a separate sentence dedicated solely to authorizing appellate review
of orders on motions for new trial.  This
sentence would be superfluous if parties to the proceeding under the CAA cannot
move for a new trial in the first place.
Respondent relies on the final sentence of section
1294.2: “The provisions of this section do not authorize the court to review
any decision or order from which an appeal might have been taken.”  This sentence does not preclude motions for
new trial for two reasons.  First, the
context of the statute shows “the court” means the appellate court, not the
trial court.  Section 1294.2 uses the
phrase “the court” four times.  The first
two references state what “the court” can do “[u]pon an appeal” or “on such
appeal,” which necessarily means an appellate court.  The third reference states what the
“respondent on the appeal” may “request the court” to do.  Again, a request made to “the court” by a
“respondent on the appeal” must mean a request to an appellate court.  
Second, assuming “the court” in the final sentence
of section 1294.2 can be a trial court, this sentence does not mean section
1294.2 prohibits the trial court from reviewing appealable orders.  It states the section does not grant certain power—not
that it forbids that power, which may originate elsewhere.  Here, that authority originates from section
657, which does authorize trial courts to review appealable decisions or
orders.  
Irregularity in Proceedings
Clare fails to show a basis for a new trial due
to “irregularity in the proceedings.” 
(CCP § 657, subd. 1.)  That is a
catchall phrase referring to conduct that violates the right of a party to a
fair trial.  (Montoya v. Barragan (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1230.)  
Clare argues for irregularity in proceedings because
the court did not allow enough time for oral argument.  It contends, “Not only did this inadequacy of
time prevent a full hearing on Clare’s petition to vacate, but it prevented the
Court from correcting its erroneous tentative ruling.”  (Memo., pp. 14-15.)  Assuming that could constitute an
“irregularity in the proceedings,” the court did permit a full hearing and oral
argument.  Clare relies on the following statement
by the court: “I don’t have an unlimited amount of time today.  I wish I did.  I have a jury waiting outside.  So I am carefully listening to what you have
to say.  If you can get to your best
points, and I need to move on.  I’m sorry
I don’t have more time today.”  (Ghods
Decl., Ex. B, 5:28-6:4.)  But the court
allowed substantial argument after that. 
The transcript continues for almost three full pages, including
substantial argument by Clare’s counsel. 
(Id., 6:5-9:1.)
The court acknowledges an error in the January
26, 2024, minute order.  The minute order
states, “The arbitrator’s order entering default was unrelated to the date of
the hearing—which never occurred.  …   As the arbitrator concluded, there was no longer
any need for a hearing.”  (Minute Order,
p. 3.)  The hearing did occur as an
uncontested default prove up.  A
misstatement of fact in the ruling is not an “irregularity in the proceedings.”  At most, it is an error of fact.  And, because Clare defaulted in the
arbitration proceeding (as discussed below), any error in the fact that a
hearing occurred was immaterial and not prejudicial.     
Insufficiency of Evidence 
            Clare
does not show grounds for a new trial due to “[i]nsufficiency of the evidence.”  (CCP § 657, subd. 6.)  As a preliminary matter, the court notes that
an “arbitrator’s decision is not generally reviewable for errors of fact or
law, whether or not such error appears on the face of the award and causes
substantial injustice to the parties.”  (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blasé (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 6.) By recognizing this
principle, the court did not make an evidentiary finding.  
            Clare
does not clearly identify the evidentiary finding of this court that it is challenging.  In any case, assuming the arbitrator’s alleged
erroneous entry of Clare’s default could constitute grounds for vacating the
arbitration award under Code of Civil Procedure section 1286.2, the court would
nonetheless reject Clare’s argument.
            The
arbitrator entered Clare’s default because it did not pay its share of fees.  The parties’ arbitration agreement provides,
“The failure of either party to advance their portion of the arbitration costs
or to proceed promptly with the arbitration or to answer the arbitration claim
shall result in their default and waiver of the right to further contest or
prosecute the arbitration, and the award (including legal fees) shall be
awarded to the other party by the Arbitrator.” (Petition, Attachment 4(b),
Lease, § 29.34.3.6.)
            Clare
presents evidence it paid $5,000.  That
payment, however, was late.  JAMS
requested the $5,000 deposit on June 13, 2022. 
(Ipale’ Decl., Ex. 1.)  On June
21, 2022, JAMS sent an email stating, “This is a reminder that initial retainer
fees for the Arbitration with Judge Kough are due.”  (Whitman Decl., Ex. 2.)  On July 5, 2022, JAMS sent an email stating,
“I am following up with you regarding the INITIAL RETAINER for the
above-referenced matter that JAMS not yet received from Respondent” Clare.  (Id., Ex. 3.)  On
July 21, 2022, JAMS sent another email stating, “This is a reminder that
initial retainer fees for the Arbitration with Judge White are due.  There remains an outstanding balance from LEX
OPUS APC,” counsel for Clare.  (Id., Ex. 6.)  2644 paid Clare’s
outstanding $5,000 balance on July 29, 2022. 
(Ipale’ Decl., Ex. 2.)  Clare only
paid $5,000 on August 24, 2022 (Simms Decl., Ex. A)—over two months after JAMS
stated it was “due.”  
Clare also presents evidence it had a positive
balance with JAMS before the arbitrator ordered its default.  (Ghods Decl., Ex. D.)  That makes no difference.  The parties’ arbitration agreement provides
for a default upon “failure of either party to advance their portion of the arbitration costs.”  (Petition, Attachment 4(b), Lease, §
29.34.3.6, italics added.)  JAMS demanded
more money in advance: invoices dated September 9, 2022, demanded
$14,350 from each party as a deposit for services.  (Ipale’ Decl., Ex. 3.)  Clare only presents evidence it paid $5,000
in total.  It never paid the additional
deposit.  Pursuant to the parties’
arbitration agreement, Clare therefore defaulted and waived the right to
further contest the arbitration.  
            Finally,
Clare presents evidence that the entire cost of the arbitration amounted to $8,900.27,
and therefore its untimely payment of $5,000 covered its full share of the
costs.  Regardless of the ultimate costs,
JAMS demanded both a retainer of $5,000 from each party (Ipale’ Decl., Ex. 1)
and an advance of $14,350 (Ipale’ Decl., Ex. 3).  Clare did not pay the advance deposit.  It therefore defaulted at that time.  The lease’s provision quoted above provides
for a default at the time the party failed to pay.  Whether Clare would have defaulted had it
timely paid the $5,000 cannot be viewed in hindsight after the arbitration ended.  
Moreover, it is worth noting that a contested
arbitration proceeding would almost certainly have cost at least $1,100 more
than a default prove-up.  Clare would
have both defended itself and brought affirmative claims via its
cross-petition.  If Clare had not already
defaulted, the arbitration would have cost more than $10,000, and Clare would
not have had a positive balance.  
The arbitrator correctly entered Clare’s default.  Even if the arbitrator erred in entering
default, that is insufficient ground to vacate the arbitration award.  Clare has not shown that this court had
insufficient evidence to reach those conclusions.
Newly Discovered Evidence
            Clare
shows no basis for a new trial due to newly discovered evidence.  Courts may grant a new trial because of “[n]ewly
discovered evidence, material for the party making the application, which he
could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the
trial.”  (CCP § 657, subd. 4.)  With reasonable diligence, any newly
discovered evidence could have been discovered and produced before the
hearing.  The only new evidence consists
of accounting statements or invoices from JAMS. 
Clare offers no explanation of why it could not have requested those
statements earlier and presented them to the court.  Though the statement includes a $765 charge
for a “case management fee” on March 31, 2024 (Ghods Decl., Ex. G, p. 2), there
is no reason Clare could not have presented the statement up to the date of the
hearing on its petition to vacate the arbitration award.  None of its arguments depend on this $765
charge.  Clare’s memorandum never
mentions it.  
            Furthermore,
any newly discovered evidence is immaterial. 
The court’s decision to confirm the arbitration award would be no
different based on the current evidence in the record.
Against the Law or Error in Law
            Clare
fails to show a basis for a new trial because the “decision is against the law”
(CCP § 657, subd. 6) or because of “[e]rror in law” (id., subd. 7).  Clare argues the
court erred by failing to consider whether the award should be vacated under Code
of Civil Procedure section 1286.2(a)(5). 
(Memo, pp. 15-16.)  Assuming that
may constitute a basis for new trial, the court’s ruling devotes a full page to
considering and rejecting Clare’s argument under section 1286.2(a)(5),
including both whether the arbitrator refused to hear material evidence and
whether the arbitrator erroneous refused to postpone the hearing.  (Minute Order, pp. 2-3.)  
Clare further argues the court erred by not
considering whether the award should be vacated under section 1286.2(a)(4)
because the arbitrator exceeded her powers. 
(Memo, pp. 16-17.)  Again,
assuming that may constitute a “decision against the law” or “error in law,”
Clare does not establish any such error. 
Clare argues the following portion of the court’s order “ignores
subdivision (a)(4)’s express grant of authority to review whether an
arbitrator’s decision exceeded her authority” (Memo, p. 16): “At most, the
arbitrator erred in interpreting the JAMS rules.  It was ‘within the power of the arbitrator to
make a mistake either legally or factually’ and does not constitute grounds for
vacatur.  (Heimlich,
supra, 7 Cal.5th at p. 370.)”  (Minute Order, p. 4.)  The court did not ignore subdivision (a)(4),
which permits vacating an award when “[t]he arbitrators exceeded their
powers.”  The order quotes authority
stating that what the arbitrator did was “within the power of the arbitrator.”  That means she did not exceed her powers.  Clare’s memorandum ignores the explicit text
of the court’s order and clear authority from the California Supreme Court.
Even if the court were to reconsider whether the
arbitrator exceeded her powers, it would find she did not do so.  “Arbitrators may exceed their powers by
issuing an award that violates a party’s unwaivable statutory rights or that
contravenes an explicit legislative expression of public policy.”  (Richey
v. AutoNation, Inc. (2015) 60
Cal.4th 909, 916.)  Clare cites no
statute or legislative expression of public policy that the arbitration award
violated.  The arbitrator found Clare
defaulted based on the terms of the parties’ contract.  That contract did not waive any unwaivable
rights or include any provisions that violate public policy.  The arbitrator’s decision was both correct
and, even if erroneous, did not exceed her powers.     
Clare cites two cases in support of this
argument.  In Penilla v. Westmont
Corp. (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 205, 219 (Penilla), the court considered unconscionability in
reviewing denial of a motion to compel arbitration of a FEHA action—which
includes unwaivable statutory rights.  In
Gutierrez v. Autowest, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 77, 92 (Gutierrez), the court again analyzed unconscionability when
reviewing denial of a petition to compel arbitration of an action to vindicate
unwaivable statutory rights: “consumer protection statutes enacted for a public
purpose and providing certain unwaivable rights.”  (Id. at p. 95.)  Neither decision considered whether an
arbitrator exceeded her powers under Code of Civil Procedure section
1286.2(a)(4).  And in both cases, the
plaintiffs brought claims including unwaivable statutory rights.  The present case is distinguishable from Penilla and Gutierrez.
Disposition
            Petitioner
Clare | Matrix’s motion for new trial is denied.  
 