 Case Number:  22STCV18567    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  52 Tentative Ruling:
Defendant
Jerry Davidson’s Motion for Terminating, Issue, and/or Evidentiary Sanctions
Defendant/cross-complainant Jerry Davidson
moves for terminating and other sanctions against plaintiff/cross-defendant
David Abbasi.  Davidson contends, “Plaintiff’s
withholding, altering and/or destroying material evidence in this case, as
herein described, amounts to spoilation and calls for imposition of sanctions.”  (Motion, p. 4.)  
Failure to Provide Separate Statement
Davidson did not submit a separate
statement as required for this motion.  “Any
motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses to such a
request must be accompanied by a separate statement.  The motions that require a separate statement
include a motion: [¶¶] (7) For issue or evidentiary sanctions.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a).)  The premise of this motion is that plaintiff altered,
destroyed, or failed to provide audio recordings and failed to permit
defendants to inspect the late Sean Abbasi’s cell phone.  The motion thus requires Davidson to show
that he demanded the recordings and demanded to inspect the cell phone.  The Rules of Court require setting forth
those discovery demands and the responses in a separate statement.  Davidson did not do so.
Failure to Meet and Confer
            Plaintiff
contends Davidson did not meet and confer as required before filing this
motion.  Plaintiff does not establish
that doing so was required.  Though the
notice of motion states Davidson brings the motion under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2025.450, the motion arises from purported spoliation of
evidence.  “One serious form of discovery
abuse is the spoliation of evidence, which is defined as the destruction or
alteration of relevant evidence or the failure to preserve evidence for another
party's use in pending or future litigation.” 
(Victor Valley Union High School District v. Superior Court of San
Bernardino County (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 1121, 1139.)  Though it is a serious form of discovery
abuse, it does not neatly fit the sections of the Civil Discovery Act tied to
specific discovery methods.  In Victor
Valley, the court held discovery sanctions were appropriate when a party
filed a motion for discovery sanctions without any underlying discovery motion
or prior discovery order.  Similarly, in Williams
v. Russ (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1215, the court affirmed an order dismissing
an action as a sanction for spoliation, though the demand for the spoliated
evidence “was not made through any formal discovery process” (id. at p. 1218)
and there was no motion to compel discovery nor any discovery order.
            The
court finds that meeting and conferring was not strictly required.  But doing so likely would have resulted in
significant progress.  This court’s
guidelines for civility in litigation state, “Before filing a motion, counsel
should engage in more than a mere pro forma discussion of its purpose in an
effort to resolve the issue.”  (Local
Rules, appendix 3.A(h)(1).)  This motion
does not purport to show any attempt to informally resolve the dispute.  The declaration of Perrin Davidson
(co-defendant and counsel for Jerry Davidson) does not show he did anything
between plaintiff’s deposition on January 11 (P. Davidson Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. 3)
and filing this motion on April 9. 
The record on this motion demonstrates the
pitfalls of using legalese instead of plain English.  Plaintiff argues defendants did not properly
demand the telephone recordings themselves because they demanded “All DOCUMENTS
RELATING TO any telephone recordings.” 
Defendants could have used plain English by demanding “copies of telephone
recordings” or demanding to inspect “Sean Abbasi’s cell phone.”  
Jerry Davidson’s reply argues, “In the several
prior Deposition Notice(s), request for ‘Sean Abbasi’s Cell Phone’ was clear.”  (Reply, p. 2.)  Jerry Davidson conflates the recordings,
which are “electronically stored information” (CCP § 2031.010(a)), with the
cell phone itself, which is a “tangible thing” (ibid.).  The notice of deposition demands “All
DOCUMENTS RELATING TO any telephone recordings” of various categories and for “All
telephone recordings obtained from Defendant SEAN ABBASI’S telephone after July
9, 2022.”  (P. Davidson Decl., Ex. 5, p.
9.)  Davidson offers no evidence any
defendant ever demanded to inspect the cell phone itself.  
There is a discovery method designed for that.  Any party may demand to inspect “tangible
things … and electronically stored information in the possession, custody, or
control of any other party to the action.” 
(CCP § 2031.010(a).)  A cell phone
is a physical object, and it contains electronically stored information.  Davidson could have demanded to inspect Sean
Abbasi’s phone and copy its contents.  If
Davidson had done that, plaintiff should have permitted the inspection.
Misuse of the Discovery Process
Davidson shows plaintiff withheld (or at
least delayed producing) crucial evidence: recordings of phone calls stored on
the late Sean Abbasi’s cell phone.  “Failing
to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery” is a misuse of
the discovery process subject to sanctions. 
(CCP § 2023.010(d).)  Jerry Davidson
submitted requests for production from co-defendant Sarah Nazari (not from
Davidson) demanding, “All DOCUMENTS RELATING TO any telephone recordings
between” Sean Abbasi and each of the other parties “in YOUR possession.”  (P. Davidson Decl., Ex. 1, Nazari RFP Nos.
2-4.)  On June 23, 2023, plaintiff
responded that he “cannot comply as the particular item has never been in
Responding Party’s possession.”  (Ibid.)  Those answers were false.  In his opposition, David Abbasi states his
mother received Sean Abbasi’s cell phone from the Coroner in July 2022.  (Abbasi Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 8.)  Plaintiff’s first amended complaint, filed
September 12, 2022, includes numerous exhibits depicting screenshots of a
mobile phone displaying Sean Abbasi’s text messages and emails.  (FAC, Exs. 3-10.)  It also includes a screenshot from a mobile
phone showing an email from Chase Bank to “sean.abbasi@gmail.com.”  (FAC, Ex. 17.)  Sean Abbasi’s cell phone, and the telephone
recordings he produced later, were in plaintiff’s possession, custody, or
control.  
Plaintiff necessarily withheld evidence
because he ultimately produced evidence he claimed he did not have.  Defendants demanded all recordings of phone
calls between numerous people.  On April
25, 2023, plaintiff’s former counsel sent 14 audio recordings of phone calls to
defendants’ counsel.  (Abbasi Decl., ¶ 3,
Ex. 9.)  But on April 11, 2024,  two days after Jerry Davidson filed this
motion, plaintiff’s counsel “produced an additional approximately 129 telephone
recordings.”  (Thompson Decl., ¶ 14, Ex.
6.)  Plaintiff offers no valid reason for
failing to produce all those recordings when defendants demanded them months
earlier.  The opposition asserts
plaintiff’s health problems caused the delay. 
Plaintiff accessed the recordings on the late Sean Abbasi’s phone.  Plaintiff has not adequately shown his health
problems prohibited him from using a mobile phone or from giving it to his
attorney to find and produce the audio recordings.
Davidson
does not establish plaintiff destroyed or altered evidence.  “Spoliation of evidence means the destruction
or significant alteration of evidence or the failure to preserve evidence for
another’s use in pending or future litigation.” 
(Williams v. Russ, supra, 167 Cal.App.4th at p. 1223.)  Doing so “is a misuse of the discovery
process that is subject to a broad range of punishment, including monetary,
issue, evidentiary, and terminating sanctions.” 
(Ibid.)  “A terminating
sanction is appropriate in the first instance without a violation of prior
court orders in egregious cases of intentional spoliation of evidence.”  (Ibid.)
Davidson
relies on an inference that, because plaintiff did not produce everything on Sean
Abbasi’s cell phone, plaintiff must have altered or deleted information.  For example, Sarah Nazari states, “As to the recordings,
I was only provided a series of emailed incomplete clips with the entirety
deleted by Plaintiff David Abbasi to try and make the facts something they are
not.  … 
Also, there are recordings which David deleted from Sean Abbasi’s cell
phone because Sean recorded all his phone calls via an Application, and I know
I had other conversations on the phone, but those recordings would tell the
true story here and hurt David’s case.  The
conversations with Sean Abbasi which were not provided by David include the
first time Sean reached out to me for help regarding the property and how he
presented the facts.”  (Nazari Decl., ¶
2.)  
As
discussed above, plaintiff produced over 100 additional recordings after
Davidson filed this motion.  Not
producing everything constitutes withholding evidence—not altering or destroying
it.  On this record, the court cannot
conclude plaintiff altered or destroyed evidence.  
Admissibility of Evidence
Davidson
also makes numerous arguments about the admissibility of the recordings.  (Motion, pp. 12-14.)  This is a motion for discovery sanctions, not
a motion in limine to exclude evidence. 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030(e) permits a court to prohibit
a party “from introducing designated matters in evidence” because that party
misused the discovery process, not because the evidence is inadmissible.  
Moreover,
Davidson relies on authority about chain of custody in criminal cases.  “The rules for establishing chain of custody
are as follows: ‘ “The burden on the party offering the evidence is to show to
the satisfaction of the trial court that, taking all the circumstances into
account including the ease or difficulty with which the particular evidence
could have been altered, it is reasonably certain that there was no alteration.”
’ ”  (People v. Lucas (1995) 12
Cal.4th 415, 444.)  He provides no authority
that this doctrine applies here.  Even if
he had, his evidence amounts to little more than “the barest speculation that
there was tampering” such that “it is proper to admit the evidence and let what
doubt remains go to its weight.”  (Ibid.,
internal quotes omitted.)  
Appropriate Level of
Sanctions
Discovery
sanctions should be imposed incrementally, “starting with monetary sanctions and ending with the ultimate
sanction of termination.”  (Lopez v.
Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 566, 604.)  Appropriate sanctions are those “such as are
suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the
objects of the discovery he seeks, but [not] which are designed not to
accomplish the objects of discovery but to impose punishment.”  (Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (1991)
231 Cal.App.3d 481, 488.)  
Jerry
Davidson establishes plaintiff withheld key evidence.  But he does not show plaintiff altered or
destroyed evidence.  And plaintiff did
not disobey any court order.  Requiring
plaintiff to permit defendants to inspect Sean Abbasi’s cell phone and copy its
contents (see Ellis v. Toshiba America Information
Systems, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 853, 879, fn. 18
[“The imaging of a hard drive is a first step in attempting to retrieve
discoverable data that has reportedly been removed or destroyed”]) will
suffice to accomplish the objects of discovery.
The
court exercises its discretion not to impose monetary sanctions against
plaintiff.  Monetary sanctions would not
be just under the circumstances.  The
record indicates that, after plaintiff testified at deposition on January 11,
2024, Davidson made no effort to achieve the objects of discovery (such as
demanding to inspect the cell phone) or to informally resolve this dispute.  Davidson should not have abruptly moved for
terminating sanctions three months later. 
Had he followed the court’s guidelines for civility in litigation and
discussed the dispute with plaintiff, Davidson could have greatly reduced the
expenses for both sides.
Disposition
Defendant/cross-complainant Jerry
Davidson’s motion for discovery sanctions is granted in part.  
Plaintiff David Abbasi is ordered
to permit defendant Jerry Davidson (and all other parties) to inspect Sean
Abbasi’s cell phone and copy its contents within 10 days.  
If plaintiff fails to comply with this
order, the court may impose evidence sanctions prohibiting him from presenting
evidence of any writings (including audio recordings) found on Sean Abbasi’s
cell phone.
 
 
 