 Case Number:  22VECV013343    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  T 22VECV01343 MIKE
GEVSHANYAN, BY AND THR... vs KAISER FOUNDATION HOSPITALS
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  DEFENDANTS KAISER FOUNDATION HOSPITALS;
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA PERMANENTE MEDICAL GROUP; KAISER FOUNDATION HEALTH PLAN,
INC.’S DEMURRER is SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.  Leave to amend is limited to curing the
pleading defects identified below and not to add new causes of action.
DEFENDANTS KAISER FOUNDATION
HOSPITALS; SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA PERMANENTE MEDICAL GROUP; KAISER FOUNDATION
HEALTH PLAN, INC.’S MOTION TO STRIKE is MOOT as to the remedies requested under
the second and fourth causes of action and GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to
punitive and exemplary damages requested under the third cause of action for
loss of consortium.
Introduction 
Defendants Kaiser Foundation
Hospitals; Southern California Permanente Medical Group; Kaiser Foundation
Health Plan, Inc. (collectively, Defendants) demurred to Plaintiff Mike
Gevshanyan (Mike) and Agapi Gevshanyan’s (Agapi) (collectively, Plaintiffs) First
Amended Complaint (FAC).  (Due to the
individual Plaintiffs sharing the same last name, the Court identified the
Plaintiffs using their first names to avoid confusion and did not mean any
disrespect.) Defendants’ demurrer placed into issue the second cause of action
(COA) for Dependent Adult Abuse/Neglect (Elder Abuse) and the fourth COA for
Unfair Competition (UCL).  Defendants
further moved to strike the request for general damages, attorneys’ fees, and
punitive damages under the second COA and for punitive damages under the third
COA for loss of consortium, and for general damages, disgorgement, attorneys’
fees under the fourth COA for unfair competition.
Discussion  
Defendants argued that the FAC,
in general, is uncertain because the allegations failed to distinguish the
alleged misconduct as to each defendant. 
However, a demurrer cannot be sustained on the ground of uncertainty
regarding which defendant committed the alleged conduct, where the pleading
alleged that all defendants were responsible. 
(Dillard v. County of Kern (1943) 23 Cal.2d 271, 279.)  Plaintiffs alleged that “Defendants, and each
of them” were responsible for the alleged misconduct/failure to act, which is
sufficient to allege/charge each of the Defendants with liability.  The argument is not persuasive because it
misconstrues the allegations.
Defendants argued that the Elder
Abuse claim failed to allege specific and particular facts to allege
recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice and/or the facts as to alleged
failures only amount to a negligence claim. 
However, the allegations of the FAC alleged that Defendants did not
supervise Mike which resulted in him being cyanotic, unresponsive, and off of
oxygen; and also became comatose with sluggish pupils; did not rotate Mike so
as to cause bed sores; did not provide nutrition and/or hydration on multiple
occasions:  September 18, 2021, December
27, 2021, and February 1, 2022.  (FAC
pars. 15, 17, 18, 34.5.)  The allegations
are sufficient to provide specific and particular facts to rise above mere
negligence and alleged neglect because Defendants allegedly denied or withheld
goods or services (specifically oxygen and nutrition/hydration) with a
conscious disregard of the high probability of injury.  
However, the allegations are
insufficient to plead employer liability for the enhanced remedies.  For employer liability, Plaintiffs must plead
that the employee committing the acts was an officer, director or managing
agent of Defendants acting on behalf of Defendants; or that an officer,
director, or managing agent of Defendants had advance knowledge of the
unfitness of the employee who committed the acts and employed the employee with
a knowing disregard of the rights or safety of others; or that an officer,
director, or managing agent of Defendants authorized the conduct of the
employee who committed the acts; or that an officer, director, or managing
agent of Defendants knew of the wrongful conduct of the employee who committed
the acts and adopted or approved the conduct after it occurred.  (CACI no. 3102B.)  Plaintiffs’ reference to FAC pars. 36, 37,
and 37.6 are insufficient to plead facts to support employer liability under
Elder Abuse.  Despite Plaintiffs’
contention that the facts are within the knowledge of Defendants, there are
still some facts as to the above elements that are within Plaintiffs
knowledge.  The FAC as alleged is
conclusory.  
The demurrer to the second COA is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  
Defendants argued that the UCL
claim failed to allege particular facts to show any unfair, unlawful, or
fraudulent conduct.  Plaintiffs alleged
that they purchased health insurance from Defendants in reliance upon Defendants’
representations that health insurance would provide continuing and adequate
care.  (FAC par. 44.)  Defendants then argued that the alleged fraud
is not alleged with specificity as to the representation’s falsity and
Defendants knowledge of the falsity or how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered or the names of the persons who made
the misrepresentation, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they
said or wrote and when it was said or written. 
However, Defendants’ case law authority to support their contention
(Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631) is only relevant to the common
law tort of fraud.  There is no legal
authority that the pleading requirements of specificity and particularity
applicable to the common law tort of fraud applies to a UCL claim based upon
the fraud prong. However, the allegations of the purported fraud are
insufficient to show how members of the public would be deceived (Committee on
Children’s Television v. General Foods Corp (1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 211) because
the allegations merely allege that the misrepresentation made to Plaintiffs
deceived them into purchasing insurance from Defendants.  For this pleading defect, the fourth COA
insufficiently pleads supportive facts.
The demurrer to the fourth COA is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
Defendants’ demurrer lastly
argued against Plaintiffs’ requests for attorneys’ fees and punitive
damages.  However, arguments against
purported remedies are not proper for a demurrer.  The arguments against attorneys’ fees and
punitive damages made in the demurrer are not considered.
Defendants’ moved to strike the
request for general damages, attorneys’ fees, and punitive damages under the
second COA for elder abuse and fourth COA for UCL.  However, the issues are MOOT due to the
sustaining of the demurrer.  
Defendants’ argued that the
request for punitive damages under the third COA for loss of consortium because
loss of consortium is a claim based upon negligence.  Despite Plaintiffs’ contention otherwise, the
claim of loss of consortium cannot be based upon an elder abuse claim.  Plaintiffs failed to present any legal
authority to support their contention. 
Further, elder abuse claims are claims for enhanced remedies.  General damages, a remedy, cannot be based
upon another claim for remedies.  The
contention is not legal tenable.  There
are insufficient facts to support a request for punitive/exemplary damages
under loss of consortium.
The motion to strike punitive
damages under the third COA is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  
_____________________________________
[TENTATIVE] ORDER: NOTICE OF
MOTION AND MOTION OF PLAINTIFF AGAPI GEVSHANYAN TO CONTINUE PENDING ACTION AS SUCCESSOR
IN INTEREST TO DECEDENT PLAINTIFF MIKE GEVSHANYAN
Grant.  No opposition filed.  