 Case Number:  22VECV01473    Hearing Date:   December 14, 2023    Dept:  T 22VECV01473 JACOB WHITE, et
al. vs LANARK COURT APARTMENTS
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants Lanark Court Apartments, Statewide
Management, Inc., Mireya Arellano, Karla Galo, and Iris Abrham’s Demurrer to
the First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND as to the first
cause of action, and OVERRULED as to the eleventh and thirteenth causes of
action.  Defendants are to answer within
20 days.
Introduction 
Defendants Lanark Court
Apartments, Statewide Management, Inc., Mireya Arellano, Karla Galo, and Iris
Abrham (collectively, Defendants) demurred to Plaintiffs Jacob White; Elisa
Medina; Xavier Cisneros, a minor; Jacob White, Jr., a minor; and Jaxson White’s,
a minor, First Amended Complaint (FAC). 
The demurrer placed into issue the first cause of action (COA) for
battery, the eleventh COA for breach of contract, and the thirteenth COA for
public nuisance.            
Discussion  
At the prior demurrer to the
original complaint, Plaintiffs were granted leave to add factual allegations to
support the element of intent to harm or an offensive touching.  The Court noted that the section of the FAC
titled “IV. Facts and Allegations Common to All Causes of Action” is a verbatim
copy of the same section in the Complaint. 
Plaintiffs did not amend any of the allegations.  (cf. FAC pars. 14-74 and Original Complaint
pars. 14-74.) Further, the allegations found in FAC pars. 79-83 are also seen
to be verbatim copies of the Original Complaint’s pars. 78-82.  These allegations were previously reviewed
and found to be insufficient to support intent to harm or an offensive touching
because there are insufficient facts showing Defendants had any control over
the bed bugs.  
Plaintiffs added allegations to
plead that Defendants made a “deliberate choice” not to inspect, not to ensure
the apartment was free of Cimex lectularius, not to inspect bed skirts,
“willful[ly] disregard[ed]” bed bug infestation known to Defendants (i.e., bed
bugs), “deliberate and reckless choice” not to notify of bed bugs in
surrounding apartments, deliberately failing to inspect the apartment,
deliberately delaying in retaining pest control services, deliberately choosing
not to inspect for bed bugs, deliberately requiring Plaintiffs to remain in the
apartment, deliberately choosing not to authorize early termination of the
lease, willfully disregarding knowledge of the infestation, deliberating
choosing not to give notice of the bed bugs. 
(FAC pars. 76 and 78.)  However,
these allegations sound in negligence and do not rise to the level of reckless
misconduct or willful and wanton negligence, as cited in City of Santa Barbara
v. Superior Court (2007) 41 Cal.4th 747, 754, fn. 4.  As admitted by Plaintiffs, the misconduct
alleged is a non-feasance or “inaction” (Oppo. pg. 15:18.)   Willful misconduct is a “positive intent
actually to harm another or to do an act with a positive, active and absolute
disregard of its consequences.” (Acosta v. Glenfed Development Corp. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1278, 1294.)  
Plaintiffs’ reliance upon Mathias
v. Accor Econ. Lodging, Inc. (7th Cir. Ill. 2003) 347 F.3d 672 is unpersuasive
because a federal opinion from the Seventh Circuit is not binding upon this
Court.  Further, nothing in the opinion
shows that a landlord’s failure to remedy a bed bug infestation amounted to
battery.  In fact, quotation of the
opinion showed that the Seventh Circuit only stated that such a claim  could “probably” be a battery.  Further, the facts alleged in Matthias are
distinguishable from the facts alleged in the instant action.  In Matthias, specific facts were alleged by
Matthias to plead the motel owner’s knowledge of the infestation and deliberate
cover up of the infestation  But the
Court in Matthias only provided that the allegations supported a fraud claim
and did not expressly opine that such facts supported a battery claim.
Plaintiffs further reliance upon Ornelas v. Randolph (1993) 4 Cal.4th 1095 is
inapplicable to the instant action because the instant action involves a
possessory interest and does not involve an injury from entry or use of the
premise for recreational purposes or an injury by recreational users of the
premise.  
The battery COA is still
insufficiently pled with sufficient facts. 
The demurrer is persuasive and Plaintiffs’ opposition is not persuasive.
The demurrer to the first COA is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE.
Defendants argued that the
eleventh COA for breach of contract failed to allege any facts to plead the
terms of the contract.  However, the
pleading elements for breach of contract are entry into a contract, plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance, defendant’s breach, and plaintiff’s
harm.  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  Plaintiffs sufficiently
pled facts to support each element of the COA. 
(See FAC pars. 192-196.) 
Defendants asserted that the specific terms of the contract is not
alleged.  However, Plaintiffs expressly
alleged that the agreement at issue was for the lease of an apartment at
Defendants property, which is sufficient to plead the terms of the lease
through its legal effect.  Because the
FAC pled the legal effect of the contract, alleging specific terms or attaching
the lease is not required.  (FAC pars.
17, 192.)  The allegations are sufficient
to plead the terms of the lease.  
The demurrer to the eleventh COA
is OVERRULED.
At the prior demurrer to the
complaint, the Court found that the original complaint failed to plead facts as
to how the bed bugs spread throughout the building.  Plaintiffs cured the pleading defect by
alleging that the bed bugs moved “through voids in the wall, plumbing and
electrical outlets, light switches, any cracks or voids present, etc.; (2)
through personal property of those occupying the units and/or apartments, …. ;
and (3) spread of bed bug infestations and cockroach infestations from the home
to the public and into their residence which can affect the community at
large.”  (FAC par. 209.)  Defendants then argued that Plaintiffs did
not plead facts to allege a nuisance which affects at the same time an entire
community or neighborhood, or any considerable number of persons.”  (Civ. Code, sec. 3480.)  However, Plaintiffs expressly alleged that the
bed bug infestation involved the entire apartment complex.  (FAC par. 25.)  Despite Defendants’ contention otherwise, the
allegation is sufficient to plead a nuisance that affected a considerable
number of persons at the same time.  The
argument is unpersuasive.
The demurrer to the thirteenth
COA for public nuisance is OVERRULED.  
 IT
IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.