 Case Number:  BC721119    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2023    Dept:  68 Content Checked Holdings, Inc. vs. RBSM, LLP, BC721119
Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict
Motion for New Trial
Motion for Prejudgment Interest
Moving Party: Plaintiff Content Checked Holdings, Inc

Responding Party: Defendant
RBSM, LLP

Motions
            These
motions are moot in light of the fact that the Court ruled on October 30, 2023,
that Defendant RBSM’s motion for nonsuit was granted on the basis that RBSM has
proven that Plaintiff Content Checked Holding (CCH) has unclean hands and is in
pari delicto. Because CCH had unclean hands, the Court ruled that CCH shall
take nothing on its complaint pursuant to Peregrine Funding, Inc. v.
Sheppard Mullin, Richter & Hampton LLP (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 658.
Though the motions are moot, the Court will briefly address them on their
merits.
I.                  
Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding the
Verdict.
CCH argues that the jury should not
have awarded its verdict based on CCH’s settlement with Hillair Capital
Management because CCH argues that its settlement reflected the reduced amount
it was able to negotiate rather than the total amount that CCH actually owed
Hillair.  This, claims CCH was a
collateral source and the jury should have awarded it the full amount of what
it originally owed Hillair, not the amount is negotiated. 
The collateral-source rule only
applies when a third-party source compensates an injured party for his or her
loss. (See Hrnjak v. Graymar, Inc. (1971) 4 Cal.3d 725, 729.) CCH settled
with Hillair because it lacked funds and other assets to satisfy its debt to
Hillair.  Its funds had been squandered
and stolen by Finstad. Per the settlement, CCH only had to pay $985,877,
meaning that CCH was only damaged in that amount. This is not a collateral
source because CCH was not receiving compensation for its injuries or payment
for a loss. (Miller v. Ellis (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 373, 378-79.)
CCH’s motion for judgment
notwithstanding the verdict is denied.
II.               
Motion for New Trial
CCH moves for a new trial on three
issues: the collateral source rule argument, the value of the shares of stock
that Finstad took, and a summary judgment order granted in favor of RBSM in
2020.
A.    Collateral
Source Rule
The Court denies CCH’s motion for
new trial on the basis of the collateral source rule for the same reasons given
above under CCH’s motion for JNOV.
B.     Stock
Shares
CCH argues that when Finstad issued
himself shares in September 2015, they were worth $0.96 a share, so he received
shares worth over a million dollars. When he gave back the shares, they were
worth nothing. However, there was no economic consequence to the company. Only
pieces of paper existed.  Stock
given.  Stock given back.  No money ever moved in any direction.  No action was taken by anyone as a result of
the stock being given to Finstad.
Further, CCH is wrong is claiming
that the only evidence of the value of the stock when given to Finstad was provided
by the testimony of its expert.  On the
contrary, the jury learned that the market lacked correct information about the
fact that Finstad had already stolen all the cash (and had provided a forged
bank account statement to its auditors), there were no assets, and the company
was essentially a bankrupt empty shell run by a crook.  A rational jury could have found that the
true value of the stock when given to Finstad was zero.  The Jury did not have to accept the expert’s
testimony as to value when the expert purposefully omitted from his analysis
the facts related to the condition of the company.  The jury correctly concluded that nothing of
value was given and no loss was ever experienced.
The jury was correct in determining
that CCH did not lose any money when Finstad took the stocks. The Court denies
CCH’s motion for new trial on the stock shares issue.
C.    Summary
Judgment Issue
            CCH argues
that because Judge Mooney granted a summary judgment motion in RBSM’s favor on
a breach of contract claim back in 2020, then the jury’s verdict finding RBSM
was negligent conflicts with that decision. CCH wants the Court to either
vacate the summary judgment decision or grant a new trial.
First, all the possible deadlines
to vacate or reconsider the summary judgment motion under CCP §§ 663, 473, and
1008 have long since passed. From a procedural standpoint, the Court will not
reconsider the summary judgment motion.
Further, the award for the services
rendered by RBSM is not going to be eliminated by virtue of the fact that CCH
defrauded the accountant by providing a forged bank statement. RBSM did the
work, but it did not catch that CCH was lying to it and providing it false
information. Though the jury found that RBSM was negligent, CCH is not relieved
of its liability because RBSM did not catch that CCH was lying to it. CCH cannot
take advantage of its wrong, particularly in light of the fact that this Court
found that CCH had unclean hands.
The Court does not vacate the
summary judgment order. CCH’s motion for new trial on this issue is denied.
III.            
Motion for Prejudgment Interest
            Given that Court
ruled that CCH shall take nothing on its complaint, there is nothing upon which
to base the interest. However, the Court denies the motion for prejudgment
interest based on the following.
Under Civ. Code § 3287, where the
amount of damages cannot be resolved except by verdict or judgment, prejudgment
interest is not appropriate. (Duale v. Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 718.) Further, “interest cannot be awarded prior to judgment when
the amount of damages cannot be ascertained except on conflicting evidence. The
rationale of such rule is that where the amount of damages is in dispute, i.e.,
cannot be resolved except by verdict or judgment, an award of prejudgment
interest is not appropriate.” (Iverson v. Spang Industries, Inc., (1975)
45 Cal.App.3d 303, 312; Conderback, Inc. v. Standard Oil Co. (1966) 239
Cal.App.2d 664, 689-690.) Damages are deemed certain or capable of being made
certain within the provisions of subdivision (a) of § 3287 where there is
essentially no dispute between the parties concerning the basis of computation
of damages if any are recoverable. (Wisper Corp. v. California Commerce Bank
(1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 948, 958.)
This case was not one where
pre-judgment interest could be awarded.  The
issue of the negligence of defendant was not the only issue that had to be
resolved in order to get to the damages. 
CCH’s case was dependent upon a determination of a causation chain that
was subject to dispute.  While defendant
failed to catch Finstad’s forgery and his theft of virtually all of the CCH
funds, that which was to follow in the way of damages, and whether it was to be
determined to be the consequence of the negligence of defendant or other causes
involved a chain of events that makes this case inappropriate for an award of
pre-judgment interest.
In this case, the amount of damages
was only determinable until the parties obtained the verdict of the jury.
Therefore, prejudgment interest is not appropriate.  The Motion for interest is denied.
IV.            
Order
The Court denies CCH’s motions for
JNOV, new trial, and prejudgment interest.