 Case Number:  22STCV21958    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  11, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV21958




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Protective Order




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Pacific Global Consolidators Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Yajaera Ramirez



 
BACKGROUND
 
On July 7, 2022, Plaintiff Yajaera Ramirez (Plaintiff) filed a
complaint against Defendants Pacific Global Consolidators Inc., Oscar Delgado,
and Does 1 to 50 for damages related to a motor vehicle accident. Plaintiff
alleges Oscar Delgado was driving a tractor while in the scope of employment
with Pacific Global Consolidators Inc. (PGC). 
 
Plaintiff served a notice of deposition and production of documents on
Raymond Tse (“Tse”), PGC’s CEO, and a separate notice of deposition for PGC’s
person most qualified (PMQ). PGC has identified Tse as its PMQ, and thus moves
for a protective order quashing the deposition of Tse as CEO. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Before,
during, or after a deposition, any party, any deponent, or any other affected
natural person or organization may promptly move for a protective order. The
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025. 420(a).) 
 
The
court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to
protect any party, deponent, or other natural person or organization from
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and
expense. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.420(b).) 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section
2017.020, a court shall limit the scope of discovery if the court “determines
that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs
the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.” A “court may make this determination pursuant to a motion
for protective order by a party or other affected person.” (Id.)¿The
“motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.” (Id.) 
 
Similarly, courts must restrict the
frequency or extent of a discovery method such as interrogatories or inspection
of documents if it determines either of the following: 
 
“(1) The discovery sought is
unreasonably cumulative or duplicative, or is obtainable from some other source
that is more convenient, less burdensome, or less expensive.
(2) The selected method of
discovery is unduly burdensome or expensive, taking into account the needs of
the case, the amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake
in the litigation.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2019.030.) This can be done by moving
for a protective order. 
 
 
MEET AND CONFER
 
The declaration of Ajay
Sood does not specifically describe a meet and confer effort regarding the
instant motion. Therefore, the requirement has not been met. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
In Plaintiff’s most recent filing, Plaintiff indicates
that no further deposition of Mr. Tse will be sought and therefore this motion
is moot. In response, Defendant argues that sanctions are warranted. The Court
finds that there was substantial justification for the dispute and therefore
sanctions are not warranted.
 
The motion is therefore denied as moot.
 
Counsel for Defendant shall give notice and file a proof
of service of such.
 
 
 