 Case Number:  22STCV08170    Hearing Date:   March 11, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


March
  11, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV08170




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Leave to File Cross-Complaint 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Romic Logistics and Julio Cuevas




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
On
March 7, 2022, Plaintiff Ying Tang (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendants Romic Logistics, LLC, Intermodal Contractors Association of North
America, Inc., Ronald P. Perry, Julio Cuevas, and Does 1 to 50 for negligence
resulting from a motor vehicle accident. 
 
             Defendants Romic Logistics and Julio Cuevas
(“Defendants”) now move for leave to file a cross complaint against co-defendant
Ronald P. Perry. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
initial complaint or cross-complaint against the cross-complainant must be
filed before or at the same time as the answer to the initial complaint or
cross-complaint, which answer must be filed within 30 days of service of the
complaint or cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc. §§ 412.20(a)(3),
428.50(a), 432.10.)  Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time
before the court has set a trial date.  (Code Civ. Proc.
§428.50(b).)   
 
If a party fails to file a cross-complaint within the time
limits described above, he or she must obtain permission from the court to file
the cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 426.50, 428.50(c).)  Leave
to file a mandatory cross-complaint must be granted absent bad faith. (Silver
Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.)  Leave to
file a permissive cross-complaint need only be granted in the interest of
justice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.50(c).) The
court must grant leave to file a mandatory cross-complaint so long as the defendant
is acting in good faith.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) 
 
A
party against whom a cause of action has been asserted in a complaint may file
a cross complaint setting forth “[a]ny cause of action he has against a person
alleged to be liable thereon, whether or not such person is already a party to
the action, if the cause of action asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises
out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or
occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or
interest in the property or controversy which is the subject of the cause
brought against him.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 428.10(b).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants argue that Ronald P.
Perry (“Perry”) is alleged by Plaintiff to be one of the drivers involved in
the subject multi-vehicle accident. Perry’s deposition has been taken.
Defendants assert that during a November 27, 2023 mediation between the parties,
Defendants learned of Perry’s new stance regarding his liability. While not
disclosing the contents of the confidential mediation, Defendants now seek to
protect their interests by filing a cross-complaint against Perry for
indemnification, apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief. Since it
appears the cross-complaint is based on the motor vehicle accident underlying
this case, it results out of the same occurrence. Therefore, the Court finds
the interests of justice would be served by allowing Defendants to file the
cross complaint. 
 

CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Defendants Romic Logistics and Julio
Cuevas’ motion for leave to file a
cross-complaint. Defendants are
ordered to file and serve their proposed cross-complaint within ten (10) days
of the date of this Order.
 
Moving party shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such.
 