 Case Number:  BC714498    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  78 Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesDepartment 78FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ,Plaintiff,          vs.LOS ANGELES DODGERS HOLDING COMPANY, et al.,Defendants. Case No.: BC714498 Hearing Date: June 4, 2024 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: MOTION TO TAX COSTS FILED BY PLAINTIFF FRANCISCO RODRIGUEZ Plaintiff’s motion to tax costs is granted in part. $1,162.55 in costs will be taxed from Jackson’s costs. Moving party to provide notice. DISCUSSIONPlaintiff moves to tax costs from the memorandum of costs filed by Defendant Mark Jackson. Legal StandardExcept as otherwise expressly provided by statute, a prevailing party is entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any action or proceeding. (Code Civ. Proc. section 1032, subd. (b).) Under Code Civ. Proc., section 1033.5, subd. (c)(2), allowable costs “shall be reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation rather than merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation.” Subdivision (3) requires: “Allowable costs shall be reasonable in amount.” There is no requirement that copies of bills, invoices, statements, or any other such documents be attached to the memorandum. Only if the costs have been put in issue via a motion to tax costs must supporting documentation be submitted. (Bach v. County of Butte (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 294, 308.) Where a cost item does not appear proper and necessary on its face, the burden of proof is on the claimant to show the cost is appropriate. (Murphy v. F.D. Cornell Co. (1930) 110 Cal. App. 452, 454.) If the items appear to be proper charges, the burden is on the party seeking to tax costs to show they were not reasonable or necessary. (Ladas v. California State Auto. Assn. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761.) Where items are properly objected to as not reasonable or necessary, however, they are put in issue and the burden of proof is on the party claiming them as costs. (Id.) The trial court’s determination on a motion to tax or strike costs will be reversed only for an abuse of discretion. (Santantonio v. Westinghouse Broadcasting Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 102, 121.)    Analysis Plaintiff moves to tax costs. Plaintiff disputes costs for (1) court reporter fees, (2) models, enlargements, and photocopies, and (3) other services rendered by a trial technician related to trial. Plaintiff also argues he should be excused from paying litigation costs because he is indigent and qualified for a fee waiver.1. Reporter FeesCourt reporter fees are only allowable if they are allowed by statute. (Code Civ. Proc., section 1033.5, subd. (a)(c)(11).) When an official court reporter is not available, a party may arrange and pay for a certified shorthand reporter, and those fees are recoverable as taxable costs.  (Gov. Code, section 68086(d)(2); Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.956(c)(1).) If a party has been granted a fee waiver, the party may request that the court provide an official reporter. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.956(c)(2).) Fees for official court reporters may be waived for a party who has been granted a fee waiver. (Code Civ. Proc., section 68086(b).)Here, Jackson’s memorandum of costs states that he incurred costs for court reporter fees for (1) a deposition cancellation fee, (2) a hearing on Jackon’s motion for summary judgment, (3) a final status conference, (4) a hearing on motions in limine, and (5) for trial. The Court appointed a certified shorthand reporter for the hearings described above and trial. Thus, these fees are expressly allowable under Gov. Code, section 68086 and Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.956. Although court reporter fees may be waived for an official court reporter if a party has been granted a fee waiver, the fees for a pro tempore reporter paid for by a party are expressly recoverable.  With respect to the cost of the deposition cancellation fee, the cost of taking, video, recording, and transcribing depositions is expressly allowable under Code Civ. Proc., section 1033.5(a)(3)(A). Although the deposition was cancelled, Jackson still incurred the cost of obtaining a court reporter to transcribe the deposition. Therefore, this cost is allowable.No costs will be taxed for court reporter fees.2. Models, Enlargements, PhotocopiesPlaintiff next argues that the costs for models, enlargements, and photocopies of exhibits must be taxed because all exhibits were put on a screen for the jury to review and the materials were not used at trial. Plaintiff’s counsel alleges no models were presented to the jury and only exhibits were displayed on a screen for the jury to view.The cost of models, enlargements, photocopies, electronic presentations, and other similar costs are allowable if they were reasonably helpful to aid a trier of fact. (Code Civ. Proc., section 1033.5(a)(13).) These costs are not recoverable if the materials were not presented to the trier of fact. (Segal v. ASICS America Corp. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 651, 665.) However, courts have discretion under Code Civ. Proc., section 1033.5(c)(4) to allow the costs if they were reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation rather than merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation. (Id.)Here, Jackson’s invoices show he incurred costs for printing and assembling trial and exhibit binders, video editing, and photocopying. (Jackson’s Exh. B.) However, the invoices add up to $12,291.81. Jackson’s memorandum of costs states these costs were $13,454.36. The amount claimed in the memorandum of costs is $1,162.55 more than the expenses actually incurred. With respect to the invoices associated with video editing, these costs are allowable because the videos were shown to the jury at trial and Plaintiff provides no evidence that the videos were not helpful to aid the jury.Jackson does not dispute that some exhibits were not used at trial. Neither party explains which exhibits were or were not used at trial and Jackson’s invoices for photocopying do not state what materials were printed. Nevertheless, the Court requires the parties to produce trial binders at the Final Status Conference in each case. The Court also requires exhibit binders to be exchanged and lodged with the Court before trial. Because the materials were reasonably necessary to conduct litigation, the Court will exercise its discretion and allow the costs for producing and photocopying these materials. However, the unexplained surplus of $1,162.55 will be taxed because it appears Jackson did not incur these costs.3. Court TechnicianPlaintiff next argues that services rendered by a trial technician related to trial are not authorized by law. Expenses for equipment charges and trial technician costs are not allowed or prohibited by statute. The Court has discretion to allow or deny these costs. (Code Civ. Proc., section 1033.5(c)(4).)The time entries for Jackson’s technician show that the technician was responsible for assembling Jackson’s exhibits electronically, presented the evidence during trial, and assisted the jury with technology used during trial. (Plaintiff’s pdf p. 21-27.) Additionally, the technician performed these services for the other parties in this matter, not just Jackson. Although the technician’s services cost more than $50,000, Jackson is only seeking $29,007.50. Given the lengthy trial in this matter, voluminous exhibits, and the fact that other parties in this matter benefitted from the technician’s services, the Court finds the costs for the trial technician were reasonably necessary for litigation. The Court will allow these costs.4. Plaintiff’s indigencyPlaintiff finally argues that he should not be liable for Jackson’s costs because he is indigent and received a fee waiver. (Plaintiff’s Exh. 3.) However, Plaintiff provides no legal authority to support this argument. A prevailing party is entitled to all of his costs unless otherwise provided by statute. (Nelson v. Anderson (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 111, 129.) A court has no discretion to deny costs to a prevailing party. (Id.) Although fee waivers allow indigent parties to proceed with a lawsuit without paying court fees and costs, the waiver does not affect whether an adversary may recover costs. (Sutter County v. Superior Court for Sutter County (1966) 244 Cal.App.2d 770, 772 [“California decisions on the in forma pauperis dispensation involve the poor person's fees, not his adversary's costs.”].) A party’s inability to pay is not relevant to whether costs were reasonable in amount or reasonably necessary for litigation. (LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 1116, 1124.)Here, Plaintiff’s fee waiver does not allow him to avoid paying costs to Jackson under Code Civ. Proc., section 1032. Jackson is entitled to recover costs in this matter because he is a prevailing party. There is no law which prohibits a prevailing party from recovering costs under section 1032 because the unsuccessful party is indigent. The fee waiver merely allowed Plaintiff to proceed with trial without incurring costs and did not affect whether any adversarial party incurred costs. No provision of Civ. Code, section 1032 allows the Court to consider Plaintiff’s indigency in its determination of whether costs are reasonable. Therefore, Plaintiff’s argument is without merit.DATED: June 4, 2024_________________________Hon. Jill FeeneyJudge of the Superior Court