 Case Number:  24PSCV01041    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  PVOM
LLC v. LTG South Hills LLC, et al. 
1
– Defendant LTG South Hills LLC’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint;
2
– Defendant LTG South Hills LLC’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint;
and
3
– Defendants LT Management Group and Shao Xing Max Yang’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff’s Complaint 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court OVERRULES Defendant LTG South Hills LLC’s demurrer to
the First and Second Causes of Action. 
The Court DENIES Defendant LTG South Hills LLC’s motion to strike
portions of the complaint. 
The Court SUSTAINS Defendants LT Management Group and Shao Xing
Max Yang’s demurrer to the First and Second Causes of Action of the complaint
with 20 days leave to amend. 
Defendants LT Management Group and Shao Xing Max Yang are ordered
to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a breach of contract action. On April 2, 2024, plaintiff PVOM
LLC (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants LTG South Hills LLC (LTG),
LT Management Group, Shao Xing Max Yang (Shao) (collectively, Defendants), and
Does 1 through 50, alleging causes of action for breach of contract and
specific performance. 
On May 3, 2024, LTG filed a demurrer to and motion to strike
portions of the complaint. On the same date, LT Management Group and Shao
demurred to the complaint. On June 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed oppositions. On July
3, 2024, LTG filed replies. On the same date, LT Management Group and Shao
filed a reply. 
LEGAL
STANDARD – Demurrer 
            A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of
other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or
content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or
cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function
of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for
purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are
assumed to be true. (Id.) 
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,
supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be
considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,
881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting
demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal
v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider
contents of release not part of court record].) 
A
demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete
or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of
the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are
incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.
Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s
Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as
surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”]) 
A demurrer
can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of
Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108
Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)  
DISCUSSION –
Demurrer (LTG) 
Meet and Confer 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), LTG was
required to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference
before bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) The
Court finds LTG’s meet-and-confer efforts satisfactory. (Huang Decl., ¶ 2.) 
First Cause of Action – Breach of Contract 
“A cause of action for breach of contract requires pleading of a
contract, plaintiff's performance or excuse for failure to perform, defendant's
breach and damage to plaintiff resulting therefrom. [Citation.] A written
contract may be pleaded either by its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint
or a copy of the contract attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by
reference—or by its legal effect. [Citation.]” (McKell v. Washington Mutual,
Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.) 
LTG demurs to the First Cause of Action for breach of contract on
the grounds that it fails to state a cause of action. LTG contends the
complaint lacks specificity and factual support for Plaintiff’s breach of
contract claim. LTG contends Plaintiff has failed to identify the specific
contractual provisions or terms that LTG allegedly breached and that even if
the allegations are accepted as true, they fail to state a claim for breach of
contract because Plaintiff has not articulated how LTG’s alleged conduct
constitutes a breach or how LTG has suffered damages as a result. LTG further
contends Plaintiff fails to show how, when, where, and by what means the
alleged representations and warranties were allegedly false. LTG also contends
Plaintiff failed to attach the agreement to the complaint or otherwise
articulate specific facts regarding what LTG did or did not do. 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends it is not required to satisfy a
heightened pleading standard here because of modern discovery procedures. Plaintiff
cites various paragraphs from the complaint to show that it pleaded sufficient
facts to support its breach of contract claim, and notes that it need only
plead the legal effect of the contract. 
The Court finds the complaint alleges sufficient
facts to state a cause of action for breach of contract. The complaint alleges
that the parties entered into a written contract for the sale of certain
commercial property, that Defendants were obligated to perform certain
obligations thereunder, such as prorating expenses, providing original
accounting records, and transferring tenant files and property plans. (Compl.,
¶¶ 8-9.) The complaint further alleges Defendants failed to perform their
respective obligations and that Defendants’ representations were false,
resulting in damages to Plaintiff. (Compl., ¶¶ 10-14.) While the Court agrees
the complaint could contain more specifics, particularly regarding the
representations and warranties in the PSA, Plaintiff correctly contends that a
breach of contract claim is not subject to a heightened pleading requirement. (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 425.10, subd. (a)(1) [complaint need only allege facts
constituting the cause of action in ordinary and concise language]; compare Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645 [heightened pleading
requirements for fraud claims].) The Complaint alleges sufficient facts
regarding the failure to accurately prorate expenses, provide original
accounting records, and transfer tenant files and property plans. 
Moreover, Plaintiff need not have attached the written contract to
the complaint to state a cause of action for breach of contract. “In an action
based on a written contract, a plaintiff may plead the legal effect of the
contract rather than its precise language. [Citation.]” (Constr. Protective Servs., Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co.
(2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.) As noted above, the complaint adequately
alleges facts to apprise the parties of the contract at issue and what LTG
allegedly did or failed to do in connection therewith. (See Medical
Marijuana, Inc. v. ProjectCBD.com (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 869, 886.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the
First Cause of Action. 
Second Cause of Action – Specific Performance 
“’[S]pecific performance and injunctive relief are equitable remedies and not causes of action for injuries. [Citations.]” (Mesa Shopping Ctr.-E., LLC v. O Hill (2014) 232
Cal.App.4th 890, 901.) 
LTG demurs to the Second Cause of Action for specific performance
on the grounds that it fails to state a cause of action. LTG contends specific
performance is a remedy to a breach of contract, and not a cause of action in
and of itself. LTG contends the complaint fails to adequately plead facts
demonstrating the inadequacy of monetary damages, which is necessary for
injunctive relief like specific performance. LTG contends Plaintiff has
monetary damages as an available remedy when specific performance is
impracticable or inequitable. LTG further contends the contract must be
sufficiently certain to enable the Court to determine what action is required
of the parties, and Plaintiff has not demonstrated the terms of the contract
are sufficiently clear and enforceable to warrant specific performance. LTG
also contends specific performance is an equitable remedy granted at the
Court’s discretion, and that Plaintiff has not provided sufficient facts or
legal arguments to warrant the Court’s exercise of discretion in Plaintiff’s
favor. 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends the Second Cause of Action is
another count of a breach of contract which seeks the remedy of specific
performance, and that LTG’s argument is one of form over substance. Plaintiff
contends the complaint is properly pleaded here, and that certain allegations
do not lend themselves to monetary damages, such as the obligation to provide
original accounting records and transfer of tenant files and property plans.
Plaintiff further contends the inadequacy of the legal remedy has been properly
pleaded at paragraph 17 of the complaint and that it is self-evident here what
contractual terms are sought to being enforced. Plaintiff then contends whether
this equitable remedy is discretionary is beyond the scope of a demurrer. 
The Court agrees that specific performance is a
remedy for breach of contract, not a cause of action. (Golden West Baseball
Co. v. City of Anaheim (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 11, 49; Miller v. Dyer (1942)
20 Cal.2d 526, 531; Tamarind Lithography Workshop, Inc. v. Sanders
(1983) 143 Cal.App.3d 571, 575. A plaintiff seeking performance of a contract
must demonstrate: "(1) the inadequacy of his legal remedy; (2) an
underlying contract that is both reasonable and supported by adequate
consideration; (3) the existence of a mutuality of remedies; (4) contractual
terms which are sufficiently definite to enable the court to know what it is to
enforce; and (5) a substantial similarity of the requested performance to that
promised in the contract." (Tamarind 143 Cal.App.3d at 575.) As
such, the specific performance remedy must be tethered to a breach of contract. 
As discussed above, Plaintiff adequately pled a cause
of action for breach of contract. Plaintiff also adequately pled a claim for
specific performance. (Compl., ¶¶ 7-17.) (See Collins v. Marvel
Land Co. (1970) 13 Cal.App.3d 34, 40 (Court held trial court erred in
sustaining a demurrer to cause of action for specific performance).) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer
to the Second Cause of Action. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD – Motion to Strike (LTG) 
            “Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole
or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to motions
specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).)
“The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Id., § 436.) 
DISCUSSION –
Motion to Strike (LTG) 
Meet and Confer 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section
435.5, subdivision (a), LTG was required to meet and confer in person, by
telephone, or by video conference before bringing this motion to strike.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) The Court finds LTG’s meet-and-confer
efforts satisfactory. (Huang Decl., ¶ 2.) 
Paragraphs 11 and 12 of the Complaint 
LTG contends paragraph 11 of the complaint is improper because it fails
to specify the nature of the alleged failures regarding its obligations under
the contract and lacks the necessary factual detail to support a claim for
relief. LTG contends paragraph 12 of the complaint is also improper because it
is speculative and fails to provide any factual basis or evidence to support
the assertion of fraudulent misrepresentation or concealment, and such
allegations require a higher standard of pleading. LTG also contends
Plaintiff’s allegations of false representations is unfounded, improper,
speculative, and lack any objective basis. 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends paragraphs 11 and 12 of the
complaint are properly pleaded. Plaintiff contends this is a cause of action
for breach of contract, and that the allegations of misrepresentations simply
form part of the basis of LTG’s alleged breach. 
The Court does not find these allegations to be
improper, but instead form part of the basis for Plaintiff’s breach of contract
claim against LTG. Paragraph 11 specifically alleges what LTG failed to do
under the contract, which is necessary for a breach of contract claim. (See Richman
v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.) With respect to paragraph 12
of the complaint, the Court agrees that these allegations appear to be in the
vein of a fraud claim rather than breach of contract. (See Vill. Northridge Homeowners Assn. v. State Farm Fire & Cas.
Co. (2010) 50 Cal.4th 913, 921 [fraud in the inducement].) Nevertheless,
the Court finds these allegations provide additional context and support for
the breach of contract and are not irrelevant, false, or improper. (See Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Compl., ¶¶ 7-14.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion
to strike with respect to paragraphs 11 and 12 of the complaint. 
Request for Pre-Judgment Interest at the Legal Rate 
LTG contends Plaintiff has not pleaded sufficient facts to support
its demand for prejudgment interest at legal rates. LTG cites Civil Code
section 3287, subdivision (a), which provides for recovery of prejudgment
interest based on damages capable of being made certain. LTG contends the
complaint fails to state the exact amount of damages sought and lacks
sufficient factual support to demonstrate that LTG knows the amount owed or
could have calculated it based on readily available information. LTG contends prejudgment
interest is not a matter of right but rather an equitable remedy that should be
granted only when warranted by the circumstances, which Plaintiff has failed to
demonstrate here. 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends uncertainty or inappropriateness
of prejudgment interest is not the standard, and that LTG’s argument on this
point goes to the merits of the action, which is beyond the scope of this
motion. Plaintiff contends that this is merely one of the remedies Plaintiff
seeks here as supported by its claim, and that there is nothing irrelevant,
false, or improper about Plaintiff’s prayer for relief. 
The Court finds LTG’s arguments unpersuasive and
unavailing. In Stein v. Southern Cal. Edison Co. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th
565, 573, the Court held that "Where the amount of damages cannot be
resolved except by account, verdict or judgment, interest prior to judgment is
not allowable." 
Civil Code section 3287 provides, in pertinent part:
(a) A person who is entitled to recover damages certain, or capable of being
made certain by calculation, and the right to recover which is vested in the
person upon a particular day, is entitled also to recover interest thereon
from that day, except when the debtor is  prevented by law, or by the act of the
creditor from paying the debt. This section is applicable to recovery of
damages and interest from any debtor, including the state or any county, city,
city and county, municipal corporation, public district, public agency, or any
political subdivision of the state. (Civ. Code § 3287(a) (emphasis added).) 
The plaintiff is entitled to seek an award of
pre-judgment interest on his cause of action for breach of contract since, such
claim is capable of being made certain by calculation, and his right to recover
is vested upon him upon a particular day. He is entitled to recover interest
thereon from that day. Nothing more is needed. 
Moreover, Civil Code section 3287, subdivision (b),
provides for recovery of prejudgment interest for unliquidated damage claims.
(Civ. Code, § 3287, subd. (b).) The complaint does not need to specify the
exact amount of damages sought in order to recover them. “A legal dispute
concerning the defendant's liability or the proper measure of damages, however,
does not render damages unascertainable. [Citations.]” (Collins v. City of Los Angeles, supra, 205 Cal.App.4th at
p. 151.) While the exact amount Plaintiff may be entitled to could be disputed,
the Court could potentially award prejudgment interest under Civil Code section
3287, subdivision (b). Accordingly, the lack of specified amount of damages in
the complaint does not render the request for prejudgment interest improper or subject
to a motion to strike. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion
to strike with respect to Plaintiff’s request for prejudgment interest on page
4 of the complaint. 
Request for Specific Performance      
            LTG contends Plaintiff has not
pleaded sufficient facts to support a request for specific performance. LTG
contends Plaintiff’s request for specific performance is insufficient because
it fails to establish the elements necessary for equitable relief. LTG contends
Plaintiff must demonstrate having satisfied all contractual requirements and
that monetary damages are inadequate to remedy the breach, and that Plaintiff
has failed to do so. LTG also contends the court must consider equitable
factors in determining whether to grant such relief, and that specific
performance is inequitable or impractical here. LTG further contends Plaintiff
has failed to demonstrate that monetary damages would be inadequate here. 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends these are the same arguments
raised in LTG’s demurrer and that such arguments fail for the same reasons set
forth in Plaintiff’s opposition to the demurrer. Plaintiff contends the
complaint is properly pleaded here and that some of the alleged breaches do not
lend themselves to monetary damages, such as the obligation to provide original
accounting records and transfer of tenant files and property plans. Plaintiff
further contends it is self-evident here what contractual terms are being
sought to be enforced, and that there is nothing irrelevant, false, or improper
about Plaintiff’s prayer for relief. 
The Court finds the complaint alleges sufficient
facts to support Plaintiff’s request for specific performance. As noted above,
the Court finds the complaint alleges sufficient facts to state a cause of
action for breach of contract. The subject contract allegedly required LTG to perform
certain obligations, such as prorating expenses, providing original accounting
records, and transferring tenant files and property plans, and that LTG failed
to perform those obligations. (Compl., ¶¶ 9-11.) The complaint also alleges
that Plaintiff needs those records from the Defendants for tax, accounting, and
reconciliation purposes. (Compl., ¶¶ 16-17.) The court finds these allegations
adequately demonstrate the inadequacy of a legal remedy for these items. (See Valley Crest Landscape Dev., Inc. v. Mission Pools of Escondido,
Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 468, 492 [party seeking specific
performance must allege facts demonstrating inadequacy of legal remedy].) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion to strike as
to the request for specific performance on page 5 of the complaint. 
DISCUSSION
– Demurrer (LT Management Group and Shao) 
            Meet and Confer 
Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), LT
Management Group and Shao were required to meet and confer in person, by
telephone, or by video conference before bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) The Court finds LT Management Group and Shao’s
meet-and-confer efforts satisfactory. (Huang Decl., ¶ 2.) 
First Cause of Action – Breach of Contract 
“A cause of action for breach of contract requires pleading of a
contract, plaintiff's performance or excuse for failure to perform, defendant's
breach and damage to plaintiff resulting therefrom. [Citation.] A written
contract may be pleaded either by its terms—set out verbatim in the complaint
or a copy of the contract attached to the complaint and incorporated therein by
reference—or by its legal effect. [Citation.]” (McKell v. Washington Mutual,
Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1489.) 
LT Management Group and Shao (collectively, Moving Parties) demur
to the First Cause of Action for breach of contract on the grounds that it
fails to state a cause of action. Moving Parties contend this cause of action
fails because it is clear that Moving Parties are not parties to the subject
contract. Moving Parties contend the complaint lacks any specific factual
allegations indicating their involvement in the contract or the subject
property. Moving Parties contend there are no allegations that they were
signatories to the contract or that they knew of or participated in the alleged
breaches. Moving Parties also contend whether they made any misrepresentations
are immaterial. 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends Moving Parties are alleged in
the complaint to be alter egos of LTG. Plaintiff contends the complaint alleges
there is a unity of interest and ownership between the Defendants and that Shao
is a principal of both LTG and LT Management Group. 
The Court finds the complaint fails to allege sufficient facts to
state a cause of action for breach of contract against Moving Parties. The Court
notes that paragraph 8 alleges that “Plaintiff and Defendant” entered into a
written agreement, while paragraphs 9 through 14 refers to “Defendants.”
(Compl., ¶¶ 8-14.) Since Plaintiff alleges that only one Defendant entered into
a written agreement and did not attach a copy of the agreement, there are no
facts alleged to show the Plaintiff entered into any agreement with Moving
Parties. 
Moreover, the Complaint fails to allege sufficient specific
factual allegations that support an alter ego theory of liability against
Moving Parties. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS
the demurrer to the First Cause of Action with leave to amend. 
            Second Cause
of Action – Specific Performance 
Moving Parties demur to the Second Cause of Action for specific
performance on the grounds that it fails to state a cause of action. Moving
Parties contend this cause of action is duplicative of Plaintiff’s claim for
breach of contract. Moving Parties then reiterate their arguments that
Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to state a cause of action for
breach of contract since there is no contractual relationship between Plaintiff
and Moving Parties. Moving Parties also contend that specific performance is a
remedy for breach of contract rather than a standalone claim. 
Plaintiff’s opposition does not address these arguments. 
Since the Court finds that Plaintiff fails to state a
cause of action for breach of contract as to Moving Parties, the Court also finds
that the Second Cause of Action fails because specific performance must be
tethered to a breach of contract claim.
Based on the foregoing, the Court
SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Second Cause of Action with leave to amend. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court OVERRULES Defendant LTG South Hills LLC’s demurrer to
the First and Second Causes of Action. 
The Court DENIES Defendant LTG South Hills LLC’s motion to strike
portions of the complaint. 
The Court SUSTAINS Defendants LT Management Group and Shao Xing
Max Yang’s demurrer to the First and Second Causes of Action of the complaint
with 20 days leave to amend. 
Defendants LT Management Group and Shao Xing Max Yang are ordered
to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.