  Case Number:  19STCV30239    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  74 The Wonderful Company LLC v. Anthem
Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Company, et al.
Plaintiff The Wonderful Company
LLC’s Motion for Leave to File Third Amended Complaint
 
BACKGROUND 
            On
August 22, 2019, plaintiff The Wonderful Company LLC (Plaintiff) filed a
complaint on behalf of itself and others similarly situated, against defendants
Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Company (Anthem) and Lucile Packard
Children’s Hospital Standard (LPCH) and Does 1-100 (collectively
Defendants).  The complaint alleged six
causes of action: (1) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing, (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (3) Violation of the Cartwright Act
(Bus. & Prof Code, § 16720, et seq.), (4) Unreasonable Restraint of Trade
(Bus. & Prof Code, § 16720, et seq.), (5) Combination to Monopolize in
Violation of the Cartwright Act (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 16720, et seq.), and
(6) Violation of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code Section 17200, et. seq.¿¿ 
            On
May 5, 2023, Plaintiff was granted leave to amend and filed a second amended. 
            On
June 28, 2024, Anthem filed a Motion for Summary Judgement, and on January 5,
2024, Defendant LPCH filed a Motion for Summary Judgement. 
            On
July 18, 2024, Plaintiff informed the parties of its intent to file a Motion
for Leave to Amend.
            On
July 25, 2024, Plaintiff filed the Motion for Leave to Amend and file the Third
Amended Complaint (TAC). 
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
¿¿            Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “[t]he court may,
in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading.”  Amendment may be allowed at any time before or after
commencement of trial.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.)  “[T]he court’s
discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit amendment of the
pleadings.  The policy favoring amendment
is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be
justified.”  (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th
1422, 1428 (internal citations omitted).)  “If the motion to amend is
timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing
party, it is error to refuse permission to amend….”  (Morgan v. Sup.
Ct. (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)  
Prejudice
includes “delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added costs of
preparation.”  (Solit v. Tokai Bank, Ltd. New York Branch (1999) 68
Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)  “When a plaintiff seeks leave to amend his or
her complaint only after the defendant has mounted a summary judgement motion
directed at the allegations of the unamended complaint, even though the
plaintiff has been aware of the facts upon which the amended is based, ‘[i]t
would be patently unfair to allow plaintiffs to defeat [the] summary judgement
motion by allowing them to present a ‘moving target’ unbounded by the
pleadings.’ [citations.]”  (Falcon v.
Long Beach Genetics, Inc. (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1263, 1281.)  
A
motion to amend a pleading before trial must include a supporting declaration
that must, among other things, specify when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered and the reason the request for amendment
was not made earlier.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.134(b).) 
 
DISCUSSION  
            The
Court finds that Plaintiff has not shown that it did not delay in filing this
motion.  Plaintiff does not identify the
additional information it discovered that it only “recently learned” from the
declarations, written discovery, and depositions.  (Mot., pg. 3.)  In the supporting declaration accompanying Plaintiff’s
motion, Plaintiff’s counsel does not state when the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered nor the reason the request for amendment
was not made earlier. (Rule 3.134(b)).  Plaintiff
points generally towards “depositions and written discovery” about the same
factual allegations against the same parties arising out of the same core
circumstances, but does not identify any additional facts, when the depositions
and written discovery were supplied to Plaintiffs, nor what the new information
contained that gave rise to the new theory of liability.  (Selesnick Decl., ¶ 5.)  
            The
Court also finds that Defendants would be prejudice by allowing a Third Amended
Complaint.  Both Anthem and LPCH have
moved for summary judgement on the Second Amended Complaint.  (Jesus Decl., ¶¶ 7,8; Sorensen Decl., ¶
8.)  Allowing Plaintiff to amend the
complaint would require that Defendants file new Motions for Summary Judgement
in response to the new cause of action. 
(Jesus Decl., Exhibit “F”, “G”.) 
In Falcon, the Court denied leave to amend when the Plaintiff
sought leave to amend only after the defendant had mounted a summary judgement
motion when the Plaintiff had been aware of the facts upon which the amendment
was based.  (Falcon, supra,
224 Cal.App.4th at 1280.)  Here,
Plaintiff was aware of substantially similar issues.  (TAC, pg. 7 (“[Plaintiff] does not seek to
add any “substantially different issues”).)  
Because Plaintiff does not submit any new facts upon which the
additional cause of action is based, it would substantially prejudice Defendants
to grant leave to amend.  
             
            Given
that leave to amend should be denied for delay and prejudice, the Court does
not address Defendants’ futility arguments.
CONCLUSION 
The
court denies Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a Third Amended Complaint.  
Plaintiff
shall give notice.