 Case Number:  21STCV09151    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  74 Yan Shalomov v. Grace Cho, et al.
Defendant Airbnb’s Demurrer
 
BACKGROUND 
            On
March 9, 2021, Plaintiff Yan Shalomov (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against
Defendants Grace Cho (“Cho”) and Does 1-10 alleging causes of action for (1)
Negligence and (2) Premises Liability. Specifically, Plaintiff alleges that he
sustained catastrophic injuries after falling from an elevated hot tub at a
Vacation Rental Property (“Property”), owned by Cho and rented through Airbnb.
(Compl. ¶ 6-9.)
            On
September 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed an amendment to his complaint, listing the
true name for Doe 6 as “Airbnb, Inc.” (“Defendant” or “Airbnb”).
            On
November 1, 2023, Airbnb filed its demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint. Airbnb
argues that Plaintiff has failed to allege sufficient facts to establish a
cause of action for either negligence or premises liability for the following
reasons: (1) Plaintiff has not pleaded sufficient facts to demonstrate that
Airbnb owed a duty of care for the condition of the Property because no special
relationship between Airbnb and Plaintiff exists, and Airbnb does not own,
possess, or control the Property; (2) Airbnb did not have notice of the
dangerous condition on the Property it did not own, possess, or control; and
(3) Airbnb did not reasonably foresee Plaintiff’s injuries at a Property which
it did not own, possess, or control.
            On
September 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed its opposition. Plaintiff argues that its complaint
pleads facts sufficient to establish a cause of action for negligence and
premises liability because the express allegations demonstrate the following:
(1) Airbnb owned, managed, controlled, and/or operated the Property, and
thereby owed Plaintiff a duty to maintain the Property in a safe and habitable
condition; (2) Airbnb breached its duty, and allowed for a significant safety
hazard on the Property; and (3) Airbnb’s breach caused Plaintiff’s serious
injuries.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            The
court denies Airbnb’s request for judicial notice of Airbnb’s Terms of Service.
DISCUSSION  
            To
survive demurrer, Plaintiff must state sufficient allegations of material fact to
establish each element of the causes of action it asserts. “The elements of a
cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence:
duty, breach, causation, and damages.”  (Castellon
v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) “Premises liability is
grounded in the possession of the premises and the attendant right to control
and manage the premises.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th
1132, 1158, cleaned up.)
 
1.                 
Existence
of a Duty
            Airbnb’s
control over the factors that led to plaintiff’s injury is central to establishing
a duty of care for either negligence or premises liability. (See Nally v.
Grace Cmty. Church (1988) 47 Cal.3d 278, 293 (“one is ordinarily not liable
for the actions of another and is under no duty to protect another from harm,
in the absence of a special relationship of custody or control”) (internal
citations omitted); Annocki v. Peterson Enters., LLC (2014) 232
Cal.App.4th 23, 27 (“where there is no control over the premises, there is no
duty to exercise reasonable care to prevent injury”).) Plaintiff contends that,
taken together, the express allegations in his complaint establish valid causes
of action against Airbnb for both negligence and premises liability. First, the
complaint states that “[e]ach reference to ‘Defendants’ shall collectively
encompass any and all co-defendants and Does 1 through 10 inclusive[,]” which
includes Airbnb after Plaintiff’s September 13, 2023 amendment. Further,
Plaintiff alleges the following series of facts that it contends establishes his
causes of action against Airbnb: (1) “[a]t all relevant times alleged herein, Defendants
owned, managed, controlled and/or operated the [Property] … located at 64380
Sullivan Road, Joshua Tree, CA 92252.” (Compl., ¶ 6.) “As the owners, managers,
controllers and/or operators of the [Property] … Defendants owe a duty to its
vacationers/invitees to comply with all laws and to maintain the [Property] …
in a safe and habitable condition for their vacationers/invitees.” (Id.
at ¶ 7.) “Defendants failed their duties by constructing an outdoor hot tub on
the [Property] … that violates the law and creates a significant safety hazard
for vacationers/invitees.” (Id. at ¶ 8.) “On or about June 26, 2020,
Plaintiff was an invitee of the [Property] … and was sitting on the ledge of
the hot tub when he slipped and fell six (6) feet onto the hard ground.
Plaintiff suffered catastrophic injuries and was rushed to the emergency room
where he was diagnosed with a broken hip and immediately sent into surgery.” (Id.
at ¶ 9.)
 
A.    Airbnb’s Alleged Ownership, Management,
Control, and/or Operation of the Property are, in this particular case, Legal
Conclusions
“In
reviewing the sufficiency of a complaint against a general demurrer, … ‘[w]e
treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded,
but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law. [Citation.] We
also consider matters which may be judicially noticed.’ [Citation.] Further,
we give the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole and
its parts in their context. [Citation.]” (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311.) 
Plaintiff’s
complaint alleges that “[a]t all relevant times alleged herein, Defendants
[including Airbnb] owned, managed, controlled and/or operated the vacation
rental property located at 64380 Sullivan Road, Joshua Tree, CA 92252 …”
(Compl. ¶ 6.) The Court takes judicial notice of its own orders and the
parties’ previous filings in this matter, finding that the parties do not
dispute that Defendant Cho owns the Property and uses Airbnb’s platform to rent
it. (See, e.g., Sep. 25, 2024 Minute Order.) But – and this is key in sustaining
Airbnb’s demurrer – Plaintiff’s remaining contention that Airbnb somehow
manages, controls, or operates the Property, without providing any supporting
allegations how Airbnb manages, controls or operates the Property is – when one
reads the complaint as whole – a legal conclusion the Court need not accept as
true. (Youngman, supra, 70 Cal.2d at 245 (a plaintiff “is required … to
set forth the essential facts of his case with reasonable precision and with
particularity sufficient to acquaint a defendant with the nature, source and
extent of his cause of action”); Berstein v. Piller (1950) 98 Cal.2d
441, 443-44 (mere “recitals” or legal conclusions that leave the material facts
to “surmise” are insufficient and subject to demurrer).) Accordingly, the Court
finds that Plaintiff did not plead sufficient facts to establish that Airbnb
owns, manages, controls, or operates the subject Property.
 
B.     Airbnb Did Not Have a Special
Relationship with Defendant that would Give Rise to a Duty of Care
A
plaintiff may still establish a defendant’s duty of care in the context of
third-party acts, but California courts distinguish between a third party’s
“misfeasance” and “nonfeasance.” (Melton v. Boustred (2010) 183
Cal.App.4th 521, 531.) Misfeasance is when a defendant makes the plaintiff’s
position worse, while nonfeasance is when a defendant does not help a
plaintiff. (Lugtu v. Cal. Highway Patrol (2001) 26 Cal.4th 703, 716.)
The law imposes a duty of care on a defendant who has committed a misfeasance because
they have “‘created a risk’ of harm to the plaintiff ….” (Brown v. Taekwondo
(2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 214 (internal citations omitted).) However, for a
nonfeasance, a defendant is under no duty of care, unless plaintiff can also
demonstrate a special relationship between the defendant and plaintiff. (See Nally,
supra, 47 Cal.3d at 293.)
First,
the Court notes that Plaintiff has failed to present sufficient evidence to
establish that Defendant created Plaintiff’s risk of harm. Absent anything to
substantiate that Airbnb owned, managed, controlled, and/or operated the
Property, Plaintiff’s assertion that Airbnb constructed the dangerous hot tub,
without more, need not be accepted as true. (See Compl. ¶ 8; Youngman,
supra, 70 Cal.2d at 245.)
Further,
absent any ownership or duty to control the Property, Plaintiff also fails to
allege sufficient facts to demonstrate a special relationship between Airbnb and
Plaintiff that would give rise to a duty for the condition of the Property. The
existence of a special relationship typically requires a reasonable expectation
of dependency or reliance and has been found in the contexts of “(i) common
carriers and passengers, (ii) innkeepers and their guests, and (iii) mental
health professionals and their patients.” (Melton, supra, 183
Cal.App.4th at 535; cf. Nally, supra, 47 Cal.3d at 293-94 (holding that
pastoral, non-therapist counselors had no special relationship with potentially
suicidal person; although counselors may have known of potential for suicide,
counselors had no control over the patient’s environment).) Here, Airbnb’s
relationship with Plaintiff is not one that gives rise to a reasonable
expectation of dependency, reliance, or protection, such that any special
relationship exists. Although Plaintiff used Airbnb’s website to facilitate a
transaction that ultimately resulted in serious harm to Plaintiff, Plaintiff
has not alleged any facts demonstrating that Airbnb increased Plaintiff’s risk
of harm. Accordingly, the Court finds that Plaintiff did not plead sufficient
facts to establish a special relationship giving rise to a duty between
Plaintiff and Airbnb.
 
A.    Airbnb Did Not Have Notice of the
Property’s Dangerous Condition, and Could Not Reasonably Foresee Plaintiff’s
Injuries
“Where
there is a legal basis for imposing a duty—as in cases of misfeasance or when a
special relationship exists—the court considers the foreseeability of risk from
the third party conduct.” (Melton, supra, 183 Cal.App.4th at 532.) “Foreseeability
is balanced ‘against the burden of the duty to be imposed. Where the burden is
great, a high degree of foreseeability is usually required[] ….’” (Ibid
(internal citations omitted).) When addressing the foreseeability of harm the
Court must address whether an objectively reasonable person, who was aware or
should have been aware of the same facts as defendant, would have foreseen
plaintiff’s harm. (Ibid; Dillon v. Legg (1968) 68 Cal.2d 728, 739;
see also Joshi v. Fitness International, LLC (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 814,
832 (“[a] plaintiff asserting a claim for premises liability must show that the
owner knew or reasonably should have known about the claimed dangerous
condition on the property”) (citing Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26
Cal.4th 1200, 1206 (“where the plaintiff relies on the failure to correct a
dangerous condition to prove the owner’s negligence, the plaintiff has the
burden of showing that the owner had notice of the defect in sufficient time to
correct it”) (internal citations omitted)).)
Here,
Plaintiff has not alleged sufficient facts to demonstrate the reasonable
foreseeability of his injuries. As set out above, Plaintiff has not alleged any
facts to support the finding that Airbnb owned, managed, controlled, and/or
operated the Property. Plaintiff also fails to allege in his Complaint any
facts that Airbnb knew or should have known about the allegedly dangerous
condition in the absence of ownership or control. Accordingly, the Court finds that
Plaintiff did not plead sufficient facts to establish that Airbnb had notice of
the Property’s dangerous condition and should have foreseen Plaintiff’s
injuries.
            Based
on the foregoing, the court sustains Airbnb’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint.
 
LEAVE TO AMEND
Where
a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy
(1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court
that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube,
LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any
reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it
is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada
Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245; see also Virgina G v. ABC
Unified School Dist. (1993) 15 Cal.App.4th 1848, 1852 (“[w]here a demurrer
is sustained … denial of leave to amend constitutes an abuse of discretion if
the pleading does not show on its face that it is incapable of amendment.”))
            Here,
Plaintiff has successfully carried his burden to establish that his Complaint
can be successfully amended. The original complaint, as pleaded, does not offer
sufficient allegations of Airbnb’s management, control, and/or operation of the
Property to support a finding that Airbnb owed a duty for the condition of the
Property, or that it could reasonably foresee Plaintiff’s injuries. However, Plaintiff
contends that it can amend its pleadings with “further details about how Airbnb
… controlled whether the Subject Property could be rented.” (Opp., at p.
4:20-21.) In addition, Plaintiff contends that such amendment could contain
information about the reasonable foreseeability of Plaintiff’s injuries because
“Airbnb knew or should have known that the Subject Property did not have a
rental permit because the Property was not constructed per the Building
Code, thereby making the Subject Property unsafe for occupancy.” (Id. at
p. 4:22-24.) Accordingly, Plaintiff’s request for leave to amend is granted.
 
CONCLUSION
The
court sustains Defendant’s demurrer with leave to amend. The court orders
Plaintiff to file and serve an amended complaint, if any, within 20 days of the
date of notice of this order.
Defendant
shall give notice.