 Case Number:  23STCV04089    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  78 Department 78, Stanley Mosk CourthouseJanuary 16, 202423STCV04089Novel et al. v. Bank of America et al.Defendant Bank of America's Demurrer to Plaintiffs' Second Amended Complaint and Motion to StrikeDECISION The demurrer is sustained as to the second cause of action for negligence and is otherwise overruled.The motion to strike is denied as to attorney's fees and granted as to punitive damages.Plaintiffs should be prepared to discuss the issue of leave to amend at the hearing.At the hearing, the status of the Third Amended Complaint received on December 26, 2023 will also be discussed.Moving party to provide notice and to file proof of service of such notice within five court days after the date of this order.DISCUSSIONDefendant Bank of America, N.A. ("BOA") demurrers to all causes of action pled in the Second Amended Complaint filed on July 27, 2023. The demurrer was filed on August 31, 2023.Standing of Plaintiff Janet Farahi MoghadamDefendant BOA contends that the standing of Plaintiff Moghadam has not been sufficiently pled given that the bank account at issue was in the name of Plaintiff Saeed Novel.The SAC alleges that at all relevant times Plaintiffs "have been husband and wife, and the property at issue herein has been held as community property." (SAC,  Paragraph 2.) Defendant BOA argues that this is insufficient because Plaintiffs failed to plead facts sufficient to entitle them to the presumption regarding community property set forth at Family Code Section 760.The demurrer is overruled on this basis. Standing is sufficiently pled. The matter may be explored by Defendant BOA during discovery.Breach of Written Contract (First Cause of Action)Defendant BOA is certainly aware of the terms of its contract with Plaintiff Novel. Defendant BOA is also certainly aware of the ways in which the contract would have been breached if the facts alleged are true. Plaintiffs have sufficiently cited to the material terms of the agreement. The demurrer is overruled.Negligence (Second Cause of Action)Defendant BOA demurs to this cause of action for a number of reasons.Demurrer is sustained because the negligence cause of action is barred by the economic loss rule. “There is no recovery in tort for negligently inflicted ‘purely economic losses,’ meaning financial harm unaccompanied by physical orproperty damage.” (Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905, 922.) There is no indication here that there is a negligence claim that is independent of the contract claim. At this time, the demurrer as to this cause of action is sustained without leave to amend. Plaintiffs have not opposed the demurrer and the Court has no basis for concluding that there is a reasonably possibility that this hurdle can be overcome. Plaintiffs should be prepared to discuss this issue at the hearing if they wish to amend their complaint. Conversion (Third Cause of Action)Defendant BOA demurs to this cause of action on the basis that a bank may not be liable for the tort of conversion.The demurrer to this cause of action is overruled. A bank may be liable for converting its depositor's funds. (Fong v. East West Bank (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 224, 232-233.)Receipt of Stolen Property in Violation of Penal Code Section 496 (Fourth Cause of Action)Defendant BOA demurs to this cause of action indicating that there are no actual facts supporting the contention that BOA received stolen funds or that BOA knew that the funds were stolen.At this pleading stage, the facts alleged are sufficient to state a cause of action. The demurrer is overruled.Declaratory Relief (Fifth Cause of Action)The basis for the demurrer to this cause of action is the fact that it is derivative of the other causes of action. Since a number of causes of action remain, the demurrer is overruled.Motion to StrikeDefendant BOA moves to strike the request for attorney's fees in connection with the breach of contract cause of action and the request for punitive damages in connection with the conversion cause of action.The demurrer is overruled with respect to the request for attorneys' fees. Plaintiffs have alleged that the contract between the parties provides that a prevailing party shall recover attorney's fees. Although the contract may not ultimately call for the award of fees, at this pleading stage, the allegations will remain.The motion to strike punitive damages is sustained without leave to amend. The SAC does not contain sufficient allegations with respect to Defendant BOA as a corporate entity. At this time, the motion to strike punitive damages is sustained without leave to amend. Plaintiffs have not opposed the motion and the Court has no basis for concluding that there is a reasonably possibility that this hurdle can be overcome. Plaintiffs should be prepared to discuss this issue at the hearing if they wish to amend their complaint. DATED:  January 16, 2024 ________________________________Hon. Jill FeeneyJudge of the Superior Court