  Case Number:  20STCV19549    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  74 Jessica
Croce, et al. v. Robinson Helicopter Company, Inc.
Cross-Defendant Estate of Mark D.
Croce’s Demurrer to Cross-Complainant Robinson 
Helicopter Company’s
Cross-Complaint.
 
BACKGROUND 
            This action arises from a helicopter accident.
            On May 21, 2020, Jessica R. Croce,
Dominic Louis Croce, and Dante Gregory Croce (Croce Plaintiffs) filed a
complaint against Robinson Helicopter Company, Incorporated. (Robinson).
            On November 9, 2023, Robinson filed
a cross-complaint (CC) against the Administrator of the Estate of Mark D. Croce
(The Estate). The CC alleges the following causes of action: (1) total
equitable indemnity, (2) comparative indemnity, (3) equitable apportionment of
fault; (4) contractual indemnity, (5) contribution, (6) declaratory relief.
            On December 28, 2023, the Estate
filed this demurrer.
LEGAL STANDARD
            A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (¿¿Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318¿¿.) “¿To
survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.¿” (¿¿C.A. v. William S. Hart Union
High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872¿¿.) For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (¿Aubry v. Tri-City
Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967¿.) A demurrer
“¿does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.¿” (¿¿Daar
v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713¿¿.)
            The
court declines to rule on Robinson’s request that the court strike the Estate’s
“factual additions” to the CC because that request lies beyond a demurrer’s
scope.
DISCUSSION  
Whether the Cross-Complaint is
Time-Barred
            In support of its demurrer, the
Estate first argues the entire CC is time-barred. The Estate cites Code of
Civil Procedure section 366.2, subdivision (a) in support: “If a person against
whom an action may be brought on a liability of the person […] dies before the
expiration of the applicable limitations period […] an action may be commenced
within one year after the date of death, and the limitations period that would
have been applicable does not apply.” Here, Decedent died on January 9, 2020,
yet Robinson did not seek leave to file its CC until November 22, 2022. In the
CC, though, Robinson alleges the Estate holds one or more insurance policies
that apply to Robinson’s claims. (CC, ¶ 6.) Thus, Robinson aims to establish
Decedent’s (and by extension the Estate’s) liability for which Decedent was
protected by insurance, meaning Probate Code section 550 governs. In this
context, the statute of limitations under Code of Civil Procedure section 366.2
does not apply. (Prob. Code, § 551 [“Notwithstanding Section 366.2 of the Code
of Civil Procedure, if the limitations period otherwise applicable to the
action has not expired at the time of the decedent's death, an action under
this chapter may be commenced within one year after the expiration of the
limitations period otherwise applicable.”].) Thus, Robinson had to bring its
claims for indemnity and declaratory relief within one year after the statute
limitations had expired for those claims. The Estate has not demonstrated that
Robinson missed the applicable deadlines. The court overrules this portion of
the Estate’s demurrer. 
Whether the Court Should Dismiss the
Cross-Complaint Because Robinson Failed to Make a Timely Creditor’s Claim.
 
            The
Estate contends Robinson did not file a timely creditor’s claim, as required in
an action against a decedent’s estate. (Prob. Code, § 9351; Dobler v. Arluk
Medical Center Industrial Group, Inc. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 530, 536.) But
Robinson seeks to establish Decedent’s liability for which he was protected by
insurance under Probate Code section 550. (CC, ¶ 6.) Consequently, Robinson did
not need to file a creditor’s claim so long as Robinson only seeks damages
within the limits or coverage of the insurance. (Prob. Code, § 9390, subs. (a)
& (b).) Thus, the court overrules this portion of the Estate’s demurrer.
The First and Third Causes of Action
Duplicate the Second Cause of Action
            The Estate claims Robinson’s causes
of action for equitable indemnity and equitable apportionment of fault should
be dismissed because they duplicate Robinson’s cause of action for comparative
indemnity. The Estate cites two cases in support. But Prince v. Pacific Gas
& Electric Co. (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1151, 1158-1159, does not stand for
the proposition that these causes of action should be dismissed because they
are redundant. And the other case the Estate cites is a federal court decision
not binding on this court. Thus, the court overrules the Estate’s demurrer for
the first and third causes of action.
The Fourth Cause of Action –
Contractual Indemnity
            The Estate argues this claim fails
because Decedent did not sign the contract at issue in his personal capacity.
Rather, Decedent signed it in his representative capacity as a member of
Redmark Capital, LLC. (See Weddington Productions, Inc. v. Flick (1998)
60 Cal.App.4th 793, 811; Frances T. v. Village Green Owners Assn. (1986)
42 Cal.3d 490, 503-504.) However, Robinson alleges in the CC that Decedent
himself agreed to the terms of the contract. (CC, ¶ 10.) This is sufficient. (¿Aubry
v. Tri-City Hospital Dist., supra, 2 Cal.4th at pp. 966-967¿ [finds that for
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded].) 
            The
Estate also argues the CC fails to sufficiently allege the contractual language
under which the Estate would be required to indemnify Robinson. (Prince v.
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., supra, 45 Cal.4th 1151, 1158 [“In the
context of noninsurance indemnity agreements, if a party seeks to be
indemnified for its own active negligence, or regardless of the indemnitor's
fault, the contractual language on the point “must be particularly clear and
explicit […].”].) But the CC quotes the contract’s indemnification clause and
alleges that Decedent agreed to the term. (CC, ¶ 10.)
The
court overrules the Estate’s demurrer for this cause of action. 
Fifth Cause of Action – Contribution
            The
Estate contends this cause of action fails because the right of contribution
requires a money judgment rendered jointly against two or more defendants in a
tort action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 875, subd. (a); General Electric Co. v
State of California (1973) 32 Cal.App.3d 918, 925-926.) There has been no
money judgment in this action and Robinson does not allege it is a joint
tortfeasor. Thus, the court sustains the Estate’s demurrer with leave to amend.
Sixth Cause of Action – Declaratory
Relief
            The Estate contends this cause of action
fails because Robinson does not seek a declaration to guide its future conduct.
(American Tel. & Tel. Co. v. California Bank (1943) 59 Cal.App.2d
46, 55 [“One test of the right to institute proceedings for declaratory
judgment is the necessity of present adjudication as a guide for plaintiff's
future conduct in order to preserve his legal rights.”].) But in an action for
declaratory relief, the complaint is sufficient if it sets forth facts showing
the existence of an actual controversy relating to the duties of the parties
under a contract and requests that the duties be adjudged. (Strozier v.
Williams (1960) 187 Cal.App.2d 528, 531.) Here, the parties dispute their
obligations under the indemnification clause of the contract and Robinson seeks
a declaration that the Estate is obligated to indemnify Robinson. (CC, ¶ 10, p.
8:20-26.) This is sufficient. The court overrules the demurrer for this cause
of action.
CONCLUSION 
The
court overrules the demurrer for the first, second, third, fourth, and sixth
causes of action. The court sustains the demurrer for the fifth cause of action
with leave to amend.
The
Estate shall give notice.Jessica Croce, et al. v. Robinson
Helicopter Company, Inc.Cross-Defendant Estate of Mark D.
Croce’s Motion to Strike Cross-ComplaintThe court considered the moving
papers, opposition, and reply.BACKGROUND            This action arises from a helicopter accident.            On May 21, 2020, Jessica R. Croce,
Dominic Louis Croce, and Dante Gregory Croce (Croce Plaintiffs) filed a
complaint against Robinson Helicopter Company, Incorporated. (Robinson).            On November 9, 2023, Robinson filed
a cross-complaint (CC) against the Administrator of the Estate of Mark D. Croce
(The Estate). The CC alleges the following causes of action: (1) total
equitable indemnity, (2) comparative indemnity, (3) equitable apportionment of
fault; (4) contractual indemnity, (5) contribution, (6) declaratory relief.            On December 28, 2023, the Estate
filed this motion to strike.LEGAL STANDARD            A court may strike any “¿irrelevant,
false or improper matter¿inserted in any pleading¿” or any part of a pleading
“¿not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule,
or an order of the court.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 436¿.) “¿The grounds for a
motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.¿” (¿Code
Civ. Proc., § 437¿.)¿            DISCUSSION              The
Estate seeks to strike the portions of the CC that request attorney fees:
namely, page 9, line 15 and page 8, line 22. Attorney fees are recoverable if
authorized by contract, statute, or law. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd.
(a)(10).) According to the Estate, Robinson’s CC does not state any law,
statute, or contractual term that would support Robinson’s request for attorney
fees. In opposition, Robinson does not direct the court to any portion of the
CC that provides grounds for Robinson’s request.CONCLUSION             The
court grants Cross-Defendant’s motion to strike the following portions of the
cross-complaint: page 9, line 15 and page 8, line 22. The court grants
Cross-Complainant leave to amend.
            The
Estate shall give notice.