 Case Number:  23STCV30055    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  74 Gavin
Polone, et al. v. New Regency Productions, Inc., et al
Plaintiffs’ Motion to File Under
Seal the Complaint
 
BACKGROUND 
            This
action arises from a contractual dispute.
            On
December 5, 2024, Plaintiffs Gavin Polone and Pariah (Plaintiffs) filed a
redacted complaint against Defendants New Regency Productions, Inc, PK Prods,
Inc., and Yariv Milchan (Defendants).
            On
December 11, 2024, Plaintiffs lodged an unredacted version of the complaint with
the court. That day, Plaintiffs also filed this motion to seal the complaint.
LEGAL STANDARD
            Unless confidentiality is required
by law, court records are presumed to be open to the public. (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 2.550, subd. (c).) Consequently, pleadings, motions, evidence, and
other papers may not be filed under seal merely by stipulation of the parties;
rather, a prior court order is necessary. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551,
subd. (a).) 
            To
grant such an order, the court must expressly find that . . . “an overriding
interest exists that overcomes the right of public access to the record, an
overriding interest supports sealing the records, a substantial probability
exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not
sealed, the proposed sealing is narrowly tailored, and no less restrictive
means exist to achieve the overriding interest.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
2.550, subd. (d).) 
            If
the court fails to make the required findings, the order is deficient and
cannot support sealing. (Overstock.com, Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (2014)
231 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.) 
DISCUSSION  
            In
support of their motion, Plaintiffs cite potentially overriding interests that
support sealing the complaint. First, the complaint contains information that
the parties contractually agreed to keep confidential. (See NBC Subsidiary
(KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Super. Ct. (Locke) (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1222.)
Second, the complaint contains the parties’ private financial information. Plaintiff’s
interests would be compromised if the information were open to the public.
However, the court finds that the proposed sealing is not narrowly tailored.
Rather than limit the proposed redactions to the relevant portions of the
complaint, Plaintiffs aim to seal the entire document.
CONCLUSION 
The
court denies Plaintiffs’ motion to seal.
Plaintiffs
shall give notice.