  Case Number:  21STCV14481    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 
 



JOYCE FAYE ATLAS,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
MIKE H. DAVIDYAN, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.
 
 


 


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV14481
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR
  ASSIGNMENT ORDER 
 
Date: 
  January 25, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 



AND RELATED
CROSS-ACTION
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
 
The Court has
reviewed the moving papers.  No
opposition papers were filed.  Any
opposition papers were required to have been filed and served at least nine
court days before the hearing under California Code of Civil Procedure
(“CCP”) section 1005, subdivision (b). 
 
BACKGROUND
            This
action arises out of a dispute concerning real property.  Plaintiff’s complaint (the “Complaint”)
alleges: (1) fraud; (2) undue influence; (3) financial abuse; (4) quiet title;
(5) cancellation of instruments; (6) return of real property to elder/dependent
adult; and (7) intentional infliction of emotional distress.  Defendant’s currently operative second amended
cross-complaint (the “SAXC”) alleges: (1) breach of written contract; (2)
breach of release agreement; and (3) promissory estoppel.  
 
On October 27,
2023, the Court entered a judgment (the “Judgment”) for Plaintiff against
Defendant Mike H. Davidyan (“Defendant”). 
On December 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion for an assignment order
(the “Motion”) directing the tenants of several rental properties owned by
Defendant and his related entities to assign their rent payments to Plaintiff
in order to satisfy the Judgment.  The
Motion further requests that the Court restrain Defendant from disposing of
rental payments or rental properties and from threatening or taking adverse
action against tenants for complying with the assignment order.
 
DISCUSSION
CCP section
708.510, subdivision (a) states, in relevant part: Except as otherwise
provided by law, upon application of the judgment creditor on noticed motion,
the court may order the judgment debtor to assign to the judgment creditor or
to a receiver appointed pursuant to Article 7 (commencing with Section 708.610)
all or part of a right to payment due or to become due, whether or not the
right is conditioned on future developments, including but not limited to the
following types of payments: 
1.    
Wages due from the federal government that are not
subject to withholding under an earnings withholding order. 
2.    
Rents. 
3.    
Commissions. 
4.    
Royalties. 
5.    
Payments due from a patent or copyright. 
6.    
Insurance policy loan value. 
 
(CCP 708.510, subd. (a).) 
 
CCP section 708.510, subdivision (c) provides: In
determining whether to order an assignment or the amount of an assignment
pursuant to subdivision (a), the court may take into consideration all relevant
factors, including the following: 
1.    
The reasonable requirements of a judgment debtor who is
a natural person and of persons supported in whole or in part by the judgment
debtor.
2.    
Payments the judgment debtor is required to make or
that are deducted in satisfaction of other judgments and wage assignments,
including earnings assignment orders for support.
3.    
The amount remaining due on the money judgment. 
4.    
 The amount being
or to be received in satisfaction of the right to payment that may be
assigned.  (CCP § 708.510, subd. (c).) 
 
Under CCP section
708.510, subdivision (d), the court may order the assignment of property only
to the extent necessary to satisfy the money judgment.  (CCP § 708.510,
subd. (d).)  The motion must include sufficient facts to permit the court
to make a determination that the payment is assignable to the judgment
creditor.  (Kracht v. Perrin (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d 1019, 1023.)
 
In support of the
Motion, Plaintiff provides evidence that the principal of the Judgment and the
Court-awarded attorney’s fees remain unsatisfied.  (See Declaration of David Pallack (“Pallack
Decl.”) ¶ 3.)  Plaintiff has further
provided evidence that Defendant and his alter-ego company own three multi-unit
buildings that are used as rental properties in Los Angeles.  (Pallack Decl. ¶ 5.) 
 
Plaintiff has
sufficiently demonstrated a right to an assignment order to assign Defendant’s
tenants’ rental payment rights to satisfy the Judgment.  For this reason and because it is unopposed,
the Court GRANTS the Motion.  (Sexton
v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) 
 
Moving party is
ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to
the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on
the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive
an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed
off calendar. 
 
         Dated this 25th day of January 2024
 



 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



 