  Case Number:  23SMCV04908    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


July
  1, 2024 (continued to September 12, 2024)




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV04908




MOTION


Application
  for Writ of Attachment




MOVING PARTIES


Plaintiffs
  Gar Lee, Trustee of the Gar Yin Lee Charitable Remainder Unitrust;
  Acquisition Science; Zach Goldberg, Trustee of the Zach Goldberg Charitable
  Remainder Unitrust; and Advance the World




OPPOSING PARTY


none



 
MOTION
 
This case arises from a dispute concerning an alleged fraudulent Ponzi
scheme.  On October 17, 2023, Plaintiffs
Gar Lee, Trustee of the Gar Yin Lee Charitable Remainder Unitrust; Acquisition
Science; Zach Goldberg, Trustee of the Zach Goldberg Charitable Remainder
Unitrust; and Advance the World (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) brought suit
against Defendants Bruce Francis Majeski; Kristine Taylor (originally named as
Kristine Taylor Appel); Ron Appel; Kristine Taylor Philanthropies; TLC Escrow
Services, Inc.; Helpuloan, LLC aka Helpuloans aka Help U Loan aka Help U Loans;
Sovereign Wealth Preservation, Inc.; Philanthropy House; My Philanthropies; B
& B Economic Development, LLC; KAB Holdings, Inc.; Seagate Holdings, Inc.;
CFO Advisor; and Orion House (collectively, “Defendants”).
 
Plaintiffs now seek a writ of attachment against Defendants My
Philanthropies (“MP”) and Bruce Majeski (“Majeski”).
 
The writ was originally unopposed, but the Court’s tentative ruling was
to deny the motion for insufficient evidence substantiating Plaintiffs’ request.  Plaintiffs’ counsel appeared at the original July
1 hearing, but there was no appearance on behalf of Defendants.  At Plaintiffs’ request, in lieu of denying
the motion, the Court continued the hearing and ordered Plaintiffs to provide
additional evidence in support of their motion by July 8.  (See Minute Order, July 1, 2024.)  Subsequently, Plaintiffs timely submitted the
affidavits of Gar Lee and Zachary Goldberg. 
The following day, on July 9, Defendants Kristine Taylor and Ronald
Appel (Opposing Defendants) filed an Opposition to the motion.  On July 15, Plaintiff replied.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“Attachment is a prejudgment remedy that allows a creditor to have a
lien on the debtor's assets until final adjudication of the claim sued
upon[.]”  (Weil & Brown Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2024) ¶¶ 9:853 et seq.,
p. 9II-118 et seq.)  “The creditor must
follow statutory guidelines in applying for the attachment and establish a
prima facie claim; and the court is required to make a preliminary
determination of the merits of the dispute.” 
(Ibid.)
 
“Except as otherwise provided by statute, an attachment may be issued
only in an action on a claim or claims for money, each of which is based upon a
contract, express or implied, where the total amount of the claim or claims is
a fixed or readily ascertainable amount not less than five hundred dollars
($500) exclusive of costs, interest, and attorney’s fees.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 483.010, subd. (a).)
 
The requirements for obtaining a writ of attachment are: (1) the claim
upon which the attachment is based must be one upon which an attachment may
issue; (2) plaintiff has established the probable validity of the claim upon
which the attachment is based; (3) the attachment is not sought for a purpose
other than recovery on the claim upon which the attachment is based; and (4)
the amount to be secured by attachment is greater than zero.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 484.090, subd. (a).)  
 
            “The application shall be supported
by an affidavit showing that the plaintiff on the facts presented would be
entitled to a judgment on the claim upon which the attachment is based.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 484.030.)  The facts stated in any such affidavit or
verified complaint must be stated with particularity.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 482.040.) 
 
            “A claim has ‘probable validity’
where it is more likely than not that the plaintiff will obtain a judgment
against the defendant on that claim.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 481.190.) 
 
ANALYSIS

 
1.     Service
 
As a threshold matter, a notice of application and hearing for writ of
attachment must be filed and served at least 16 court days prior to the
hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005.)  
 
Here, the Court finds that the proofs of service indicate that the moving
papers were served on Ronald I. Appel, Esq., counsel for Defendants Ron Appel,
Kristine Taylor, Kristine Taylor Philanthropies, and Seagate Holdings, Inc.
(“Opposing Defendants”), but no other defendants.  However, the remaining defendants have
defaulted, and therefore no notice on them is required. [1]
 
2.     Untimely
Opposition
 
Plaintiffs argue in Reply that because Opposing Defendants did not
originally timely file an opposition, and the Court did not expressly grant
Opposing Defendants the right to file an opposition in the July 1, 2024 Minute
Order continuing the hearing, Opposing Defendants should be precluded from
filing an opposition now, and the Court should disregard the opposition as
untimely.
 
            Although Plaintiffs are correct that
the July 1 Minute order does not expressly grant Opposing Defendants the right
to file an opposition, that omission is a result of Opposing Defendants’
failure to appear at the hearing and make such a request, as opposed to an
intentional signal that Opposing Defendants are barred from opposing.  Ultimately, due process requires that Opposing
Defendants have a fair opportunity to respond to Plaintiffs’ newly submitted
evidence.
 
            Therefore, the Court considers both
the Opposition and the Reply, both of which are timely filed in advance of the
continued hearing, notwithstanding that Defendants did not previously file an
Opposition or appear at the original July 1st hearing.
 
3.     Standing
 
Plaintiffs also argue in Reply that Opposing Defendants lack standing
to challenge the requested writ of attachment of the property of Bruce Majeski (“Majeski”)
and My Philanthropies (“MP”).
 
A party lacks standing to oppose a motion, application, or petition, where
the party has no substantial interest that would be affected by the court’s
order on the motion, application, or petition. 
(See Conservatorship of McElroy (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 536, 555.)
[2]  Here, Plaintiff seeks a writ of attachment
against Defendants MP’s and Majeski’s interest in certain property.  Moving Defendants have no apparent interest
in the outcome of the Application at all, much less a substantial
interest.  
 
Therefore, the Court finds that Moving Defendants lack standing to
oppose the application.  The Court now turns
to the elements of a writ of attachment.
 
4.     Claim
Upon Which Attachment is Based
 
The first element is that the claim upon which the attachment is based
be one upon which an attachment may be issued. 
“[A]n attachment may be issued only in an action on a claim or claims
for money, each of which is based upon a contract, express or implied, where
the total amount of the claim or claims is a fixed or readily ascertainable
amount not less than five hundred dollars ($500) exclusive of costs, interest,
and attorney’s fees.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 483.010, subd. (a).)
 
Here, Plaintiffs claim money based on an express contract.  (Complaint at ¶¶ 211-226.)  Plaintiffs contend they have sustained
damages in the amount of $1,840,000, which is the amount they invested under
the contract.  (Manzo Affidavit at ¶ 3.)
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs have established the first element.
 
5.     Probable
Validity of the Claim
 
The second element is whether Plaintiff have established the probable
validity of the claim upon which the attachment is based.  Plaintiffs seek to attach the property of two
defendants in default, Majeski and MP,  based on the breach of contract claim. 
 
“To prevail on a cause of
action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2)
the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.”  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  
 
However, Plaintiffs have not provided evidence establishing the
probable validity of this claim.  Plaintiffs
have supplementally provided the affidavits of Gar Lee and Zachary Goldberg
demonstrating that Majeski made various offers for Plaintiffs to purchase
fractional trust deeds, in return for interest payments in the amount of 8-12%
per year from investors of various real properties, which Plaintiffs accepted
by sending Majeski various amounts of money. 

Majeski did not actually record the trust deeds on Plaintiffs’ behalf
for most of the properties, instead recording competing trust deeds for himself
and others.  Majeski subsequently stopped
making the interest payments as agreed, at which point Plaintiffs discovered
the promised trust deeds were not recorded, were fraudulent, or otherwise did
not exist.  (Lee Decl. ¶¶ 3-15; Goldberg
Decl. ¶¶ 3-10.)  
 
Notwithstanding, Plaintiffs did not indicate the existence of or
attach a copy of any written agreement for the purchase of these fractional
trust deeds.  As such, the Affidavits
demonstrate that the parties had oral agreements for the purchase of various
fractional trust deeds, which Majeski breached by failing to record the deeds
actually transferring an interest in the properties to Plaintiffs.  
 
However, the statute of frauds requires that all agreements for the
sale of real property or an interest therein be made in writing, and that oral
contracts for the sale of real property are unenforceable.  (Reeder v. Specialized Loan Servicing LLC (2020)
52 Cal.App.5th 795, 801.)  And although Plaintiffs
may still be able to prevail on their other theories of liability, including
fraud, an oral contract for the purchase of an interest in real property is
unenforceable by the statute of frauds. 
(Id. at p. 802.)  Accordingly,
Plaintiffs have not established the probable validity of their breach of
contract cause of action for the requested writ to attach.  
 
Moreover, while Majeski and MP are in default, Plaintiffs must still
demonstrate the probable validity of their claim.  As to defaulted defendants, entry of a
default judgment still requires proof.
 
The only other evidence Plaintiff cites to is paragraph 7 of the Manzo
Affidavit, which provides:
 
7. I am informed and believed that BRUCE MAJESKI failed to record the
vast majority of fractionalized Trust Deeds on behalf of Plaintiffs which
Plaintiffs believed in good faith they were purchasing. I have attached as
Exhibit “4” hereto three true and correct copies of property profile reports
for 251 Camellia Ln, Costa Mesa, CA 92627, 4445 Cartwright Avenue, Unit 207,
North Hollywood, CA 91602, and 33582 Palo Alto St., Dana Point, CA 92629 – all
of which Plaintiffs believed they had invested in. As the reports demonstrate –
none of Plaintiffs were recorded on the deeds mentioned, but defendants and
their companies appear numerous times.
 
(Manzo Affidavit at ¶ 7.)
 
            Thus, Plaintiffs have
not established the probable validity of their breach of contract claim. [3]
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court denies Plaintiffs’ Application without
prejudice.  Plaintiffs shall provide
notice of the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.   
 
 
DATED:
 September 12, 2024                       _
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                               Judge of the Superior Court


