  Case Number:  23STCV20237    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



LA
  MELROSE PLACE NO. 49, LLC,  
  
         vs.
 
THE
  PROSCIUTTO PROJECT, LLC, et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV20237
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 12, 2024



 
Plaintiff, LA Melrose
Place No. 49, LLC’s motion for leave to file a second amended complaint is
granted.  Plaintiff may file the proposed
second amended complaint with the Court.
Defendants, Carolwood Capital Partners, LLC, Andrew
Shanfeld, and Adam Rubin’s motion to amend their answer is denied as moot. 

 
          Plaintiff LA
Melrose Place No. 49, LLC’s (“LA Melrose Place”) (“Plaintiff”) moves
for an order granting leave to file a second amended complaint (“SAC”) on the
grounds that it is in the interests of justice and of judicial efficiency to
allow the proposed amendment, in that the amendment is related to the subject matter
of the existing controversy between the parties and will not result in
prejudice to Defendants, and that allowing the amendment would therefore
promote the efficient resolution of all claims between the parties.  (Notice of Motion, pgs. 1-4;
C.C.P. §473; CRC, Rule 3.1324.)
Defendants, Carolwood Capital
Partners, LLC, Andrew Shanfeld, and Adam Rubin’s move to amend their answer. 
 
          Procedural
Background
          Plaintiff
filed its initial Complaint on August 23, 2023. 
Plaintiff filed the operative first amended complaint (“FAC”) on
November 29, 2023, alleging five causes of action against Defendants The
Prosciutto Project, LLC (“Prosciutto Project”) and Michael Della Femina (“Della
Femina”) (collectively, “Named Defendants”): (1) breach of contract; (2) quantum
meruit; (3) false promise; (4) intentional interference with contractual
relations; and (5) inducing breach of contract. 
(See FAC.)  On January 8,
2024, Plaintiff filed DOE amendments, naming Carolwood Capital Partners, LLC as
Doe 11, Andrew Shanfeld as Doe 12, Adam Rubin as Doe 13, and Carolwood LP as
Doe 14 (collectively, “Doe Defendants”).
          Plaintiff
filed the instant motion on August 21, 2024. 
Doe Defendants filed their opposition on October 28, 2024.  Plaintiff filed its reply on November 4,
2024.
Defendants, Carolwood Capital
Partners, LLC, Andrew Shanfeld, and Adam Rubin’s filed their motion for leave
to amend their answer on August 6, 2024. 
Plaintiff filed a “Response” to the motion on October 21, 2014, suggesting
the motion be moot if its motion to amend the complaint was granted.  Defendants filed a reply on October 25, 2024.

 
          Motions for Leave to Amend
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (C.C.P.
§473(a)(1).) 
“Trial
courts are vested with the discretion to allow amendments to pleadings ‘in
furtherance of justice.’ That trial courts are to liberally permit such amendments,
at any stage of the proceeding, has been established policy in this state since
1901.”  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486,
488-489.) 
CRC
Rule 3.1321(a) requires that a motion to amend must: “[i]nclude a copy of the
proposed . . . amended pleading . . . [and] state what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be [deleted and/or added], if any, and where,
by page, paragraph, and line number, the [deleted and/or additional]
allegations are located.” 
CRC
Rule 3.1324(b) provides, as follows: “[a] separate declaration must accompany
the motion and must specify: (1) [t]he effect of the amendment; (2) [w]hy the
amendment is necessary and proper; (3) [w]hen the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) [t]he reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.” 
Plaintiff’s
motion substantially complies with CRC Rule 3.1324(a).  The motion
includes a copy of the proposed SAC.  (Decl. of Dicecca ¶7, Exh. A.)   Plaintiff’s
counsel’s declaration sets forth the allegations proposed to be added and
deleted, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number.  (See Decl. of Dicecca ¶7.) 
Plaintiff’s counsel also attaches a redlined version of the SAC indicating
where changes have been made to Plaintiff’s pleading.  (Decl. of Dicecca ¶8, Exh. B.)
Plaintiff’s
motion substantially complies with CRC Rule 3.1324(b).  Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration specifies
the effect of the amendments and explains why the amendments are necessary and
proper.  (See Decl.
of Dicecca ¶¶9-11.)  Plaintiff’s counsel asserts the amendments are necessary
and proper “to allow Plaintiff to resolve all its claims and disputes with
Defendants and recover all damages it suffered from Defendants’ wrongful acts
related to the subject matter of this action in a single lawsuit.”  (Decl.
of Dicecca ¶13.)
However,
Plaintiff’s counsel fails to state when the facts giving rise to substantive
amended allegations were discovered and why the request for amendment was not
made earlier.  However, the Court can
infer from Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration that Doe Defendants’ responses to
interrogatories, which were served on July 2, 2024, were the source of the
facts giving rise to substantive amended allegations and why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.  (See Decl. of Dicecca ¶¶10-11, Exhs. C, D.)
Doe
Defendants’ opposition to this motion is unavailing because they fail to
demonstrate that the proposed amendment prejudices them.  (See
Opposition, pgs. 12-13.) 
The
policy favoring amendment is so strong that denial of leave to amend can rarely
be justified: “If the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the
motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission
to amend and where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the
right to assert a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is
not only error but an abuse of discretion.”  (Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)  
Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend its FAC and file the
proposed SAC is granted.  
In
light of this ruling, the Court denies Defendants, Carolwood Capital Partners, LLC, Andrew
Shanfeld, and Adam Rubin’s motion to amend their answer as moot. 
          
Conclusion
Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to amend its Complaint is granted.  Plaintiff may file the proposed SAC with the
Court. Defendants, Carolwood
Capital Partners, LLC, Andrew Shanfeld, and Adam Rubin’s motion to amend their
answer is denied as moot. 
          Plaintiff to give notice.
 
Dated:  November _____, 2024
                                                                             





  