  Case Number:  23VECV02294    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  W SUSAN NAIMI v. AZUL
VENTURES, LLC, et al.
 
plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of jennifer
pafiti of defendant the oaks of calabasas homeowners’ association and
production of documents  
 
Date
of Hearing:        November 6, 2024                             Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                         Case No.:        23VECV02294
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff Susan Naimi
Responding Party:     Defendant The Oaks of Calabasas Homeowners’
Association  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 24, 2023, Plaintiff Susan Naimi filed a complaint against
Defendants Azul Ventures, LLC, Ron Rozillio, and The Oaks of Calabasas
Homeowners’ Association for 1. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; 2.
Violation of CC&Rs and Architectural Guidelines; 3. Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; 4. Negligence; 5. Breach of Fiduciary
Duty; 6. Violation of CC&Rs and Architectural Guidelines; 7. Nuisance; and
8. Declaratory Relief. Plaintiff alleges this lawsuit arises out of the failure
of the HOA to enforce its Declaration of Covenants, Conditions &
Restrictions (“CC&Rs”) and other governing documents. Plaintiff alleges by
its failure to enforce its governing documents, the HOA has permitted Rozillio
to engage in a pattern of abusive conduct towards Plaintiff since acquiring the
neighboring property. 
 
On April 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint. 
 
Defendant Rozillio filed a Cross-Complaint against Roes 1-20 for
trespass to personal property, negligence, and intentional infliction of
emotional distress. Rozillio dismissed the Cross-Complaint on April 30, 2024. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel the
Deposition of Jennifer Pafiti of Defendant The Oaks of Calabasas Homeowners’
Association and Production of Documents is DENIED. 
 
discussion
 
Plaintiff
Susan Naimi moves the court, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
2024.450, for an order compelling the deposition of Jennifer Pafiti of
Defendant The Oaks of Calabasas Homeowners’ Association within 5 days of the
hearing on this motion. Plaintiff also seeks sanctions against Pafiti, the HOA
and her counsel of record, on a joint and several basis. 
 
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party . . . without having served a
valid objection . . . fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document . . . described in the deposition
notice, the party giving notice may move for an order compelling deponent’s
attendance and testimony, and the production . . . of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (CCP § 2025.450(a).) Where
a motion to compel a party’s appearance and testimony at deposition is granted,
the court shall impose a monetary sanction in favor of the party who noticed
the deposition and against the deponent, unless the court finds the one subject
to sanctions acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (CCP § 2025.450(g)(1).)
Plaintiff moves to compel the
deposition of Jennifer Pafiti of Defendant The Oaks of Calabasas Homeowners’
Association on the grounds that Pafiti refused to appear at her duly notice deposition
continues to refuse to appear for her deposition 2.5 months later. Plaintiff
also argues Pafiti nor the HOA have agreed to produce records in response to
the Requests for Production contained in the notice of deposition until the
deposition occurs even though they could have easily produced said documents
without sitting for the deposition. Plaintiff contes the deposition and
production of documents is necessary as taking Pafiti’s deposition is crucial
to key issues in this case and is necessary for Naimi to evaluate the HOA’s
affirmative defenses. 
In
opposition, Defendant HOA argues the motion should be denied on the grounds the
motion to compel fails to show compliance with the requirements under The Los
Angeles County Superior Court Guidelines for Civility in Litigation, State Bar
of California Guidelines of Civility and Professionalism, and Code of Civil
Procedure section 2016.040. Defendant contends Plaintiff sent an email asking
for deposition dates for four depositions to be conducted within eight (8)
business days, two of which were PMK depositions. Moreover, Plaintiff noticed
the deposition for dates he unilaterally selected and when the Defendant
advised Plaintiff that the date would not work for counsel or the witness,
Plaintiff continued to not work with the HOA in setting up a mutually agreed upon
date and instead filed the motion to compel. 
 
Defendant
HOA also opposes the motion on the grounds Plaintiff is not entitled to the exhaustive
list of 51 categories of documents in connection with his deposition notice. In
addition to the objections served on Plaintiff in connection with document
request Ms. Pafiti, as an individual witness, does not have access to The Oaks
HOA’s documents which are in the possession of the third-party management
company. Lastly, HOA seeks sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel of
record. 
 
The
court denies the motion to compel and request for sanctions by both parties.
The court finds there was no real effort to meet and confer regarding the
scheduling of Pafiti’s deposition. At the hearing, the court will hear from the
parties whether a mutual date can be agreed upon. As for the production of
documents, the court agrees the deposition notice is directed to the HOA and is
compelling the HOA to produce Pafiti and documents to the deposition. If the
documents are no longer in the HOA’s possession, HOA must properly state so. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to
Compel the Deposition of Jennifer Pafiti of Defendant The Oaks of Calabasas
Homeowners’ Association and Production of Documents is DENIED. 