 Case Number:  24VECV00978    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  W DARIN HARVEY vs SIMON ASULIN
 
Plaintiff’s motion to strike defendant’s
answer and affirmative defenses
 
Date
of Hearing:        November
6, 2024                                         Trial Date:       N/A

Department:              W                                                                     Case
No.:        24VECV00978
 
Moving
Party:             Plaintiff Darin Harvey           
Responding
Party:      Defendant Shimon Asulin  
Meet
and Confer:       No.  
 
BACKGROUND
 
On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff Darin Harvey
filed a complaint against Defendant Shimon Asulin (erroneously sued as Simon
Asulin) for assault, battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and
extortion. Plaintiff alleges they were renting an apartment to the girlfriend
of Defendant when on September 7, 2023, Defendant suddenly and viciously
attacked Plaintiff. 
 
On August 8, 2024, Defendant Shimon
Auslin filed a cross-complaint against Darin Harvey and Noam Harvey for
assault, battery, intentional infliction of emotional distress, and abuse of
process. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike Defendant’s Answer and Affirmative
Defenses is DENIED. 
 
discussion
 
Plaintiff Darin Harvey moves the court for an order striking the
answer and each affirmative defense filed by Defendant Shimon Asulin on the
grounds the answer is legally insufficient, improperly pled, and failed to meet
the statutory requirements governing pleadings in civil litigation. 
 
A motion to strike must be brought at the same time as a
demurrer.  (CRC Rule, 3.1322(b).)  A demurrer to an answer must be brought
within 10 days after service of the answer. 
(CCP § 430.40(b).)
 
Plaintiffs’ motion to strike is untimely.  It was filed 60
days after Defendant’s answer was filed.  The motion is procedurally
defective and thus, denied. The court notes Plaintiff also failed to meet and
confer with Defendant prior to bringing the motion to strike. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike Defendant’s Answer and
Affirmative Defenses is DENIED. 
 