  Case Number:  22STCV06106    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                      Tuesday, August 6, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                  Calendar No. 8
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Nestor
Hernandez, et al. v. Fouad I. Ghaly, et al. 

22STCV06106
1.      Fouad Ibraham Ghaly, M.D., et al.’s Motion to Set
Aside Default   
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Fouad Ibraham Ghaly, M.D., et al.’s
Motion to Set Aside Default is granted. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on February 17, 2022. Plaintiffs
allege the following facts. Plaintiffs allege medical negligence with respect
to the care and treatment provided to Plaintiff Nestor Hernandez in connection
with a procedure to his left eye. Plaintiffs filed the First Amended Complaint
on February 16, 2024. Plaintiffs served the FAC by regular mail on February 16,
2024. Defendants’ defaults were entered on March 21, 2024.
 
Motion to Set Aside Default
 
CCP § 473(b) states, in relevant part: “The court may,
upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.  . . .  Notwithstanding any other requirements of
this section, the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no
more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is
accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by
the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a
default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered
against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal
was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an attorney's
affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal
fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties. . . .”
 
CCP § 473.5(a) states, in relevant part: “When service
of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend the
action and a default or default judgment has been entered against him or her in
the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside the
default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action.  The notice of motion shall be served and
filed within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding the earlier of: (i)
two years after entry of a default judgment against him or her; or (ii) 180
days after service on him or her of a written notice that the default or
default judgment has been entered.” 
 
CCP § 473.5(b) states: “A notice of motion to set
aside a default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action shall
designate as the time for making the motion a date prescribed by subdivision
(b) of Section 1005, and it shall be accompanied by an affidavit showing under
oath that the party's lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was
not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect. The party
shall serve and file with the notice a copy of the answer, motion, or other
pleading proposed to be filed in the action.” The phrase “actual notice” means
“genuine knowledge of the party litigant” and does not include constructive or
imputed notice to the client. Tunis v. Barrow (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d
1069, 1077.
 
CCP § 473(d) empowers the Court to set aside any
judgment that is void as a matter of law, e.g., lack of subject matter
jurisdiction; lack of personal jurisdiction; lack of proper service of the
summons and complaint; or the judgment violated due process rights.  See
Dhawan v. Biring (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 963, 973-74; See also Ellard v. Conway (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 540, 544; See also Heidary v. Yadollahi (2002) 99
Cal.App.4th 857, 862-64.  “It is well
settled that a judgment or order which is void on its face, and which requires
only an inspection of the judgment roll or record to show its invalidity, may
be set aside on motion, at any time after its entry, by the court which
rendered the judgment or made the order.” 
Hiroko Kawakita Hayashi v. Lorenz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 848, 851.  
 
“After six months from entry of default, a trial court
may still vacate a default on equitable grounds even if statutory relief is
unavailable.  . . . One ground for
equitable relief is extrinsic mistake—a term broadly applied when circumstances
extrinsic to the litigation have unfairly cost a party a hearing on the merits.
Extrinsic mistake is found when [among other things] ... a mistake led a court
to do what it never intended[.] When a default judgment has
been obtained, equitable relief may be given only in exceptional circumstances.
[W]hen relief under section 473 is available, there is a strong public
policy in favor of granting relief and allowing the requesting party his or her
day in court. Beyond this period there is a strong public policy in favor of
the finality of judgments and only in exceptional circumstances should relief
be granted.  . . . To set aside a judgment based
upon extrinsic mistake one must satisfy three elements. First, the defaulted
party must demonstrate that it has a meritorious case. Second[ ], the party
seeking to set aside the default must articulate a satisfactory excuse for not
presenting a defense to the original action. Last[ ], the moving party must
demonstrate diligence in seeking to set aside the default once ... discovered.”
Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 981–82 (internal
citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in original).
 
Defendants move to set aside the defaults entered
against them on March 21, 2024 pursuant to CCP § 473. The motion is brought on
the grounds that the defaults were the result of mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect. In addition, the motion is brought on the
grounds that the defaults were invalid because they were entered before the
time to respond had expired.
 
“[R]elief from a default and default judgment is
potentially available when the clerk or trial court erred in entering them. [ .
. . ] [T]he plaintiff may request that the clerk enter the defendant's default
when the defendant fails to answer, demur, or give notice of certain specified
motions. [¶] Defaults and default judgments are vulnerable to attack when the
clerk or trial court errs in the course of the procedure described above. The
clerk's authority to enter a default is limited by the applicable statutes. [ .
. . ] Thus, some errors by the clerk or trial court render defaults and default
judgments void—rather than merely voidable—and subject to attack as such.
Errors by the clerk or trial court may also open the default and default
judgment to challenge on the basis of equitable mistake. Bae v. T.D. Service
Co. of Arizona (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 89, 98–99.
 
Here, the defaults were entered prematurely by the
clerk. The FAC was served by regular mail on February 16, 2024. Thus, the time
to respond to the FAC was 30 days plus 5 days for mailing, or March 22, 2024.
The defaults were entered too early on March 21, 2024. Because the defaults
were entered prematurely due to the error of this court, the request to enter
default based on equitable mistake is appropriate. In addition, Defendants
submitted evidence that the defaults were entered due to mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or excusable neglect. Defendants contend that they did not recall
receiving the FAC because the proof of service was served to an incorrect
address – “Early” Street, rather than “Earl” Street.  (Decl., Fouad Ibram Ghaly, M.D., ¶ 5.)
 
Defendants’ motion to set aside the entries of default
is granted.
 
Defendants are ordered to file and serve their
proposed Answer within three days of this date.
 
Defendants are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 