 Case Number:  22PSCV01785    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO MOTION FOR ORDER VACATING DISMISSAL
PURSUANT TO THE MANDATORY PROVISIONS OF C.C.P. §473(b) AND RESTORING MATTER TO
THE CIVIL ACTIVE is DENIED WITH prejudice. 
 
Background
This is a negligence case.
Plaintiff Jose Estrada alleges the following against the City of Baldwin Park:
Plaintiff was injured while riding his motorcycle because there was a large
hole in the road.
On November 14, 2022,
Plaintiff filed suit against the City for (1) Premises Liability and (2)
General Negligence.
On December 29, 2022, the
City filed a Demurrer, which the court sustained with 20 days leave to amend on
2/14/23 (as the complaint provided no bases of statutory liability as required
by Government Code § 815). 
On June 15, 2023, the City
filed the instant two discovery motions (and two more with scheduled hearings
for 8/15/23). 
On July 7, 2023, the court in
the related case of 22STCP03313 granted Plaintiff’s Petition for Relief from
Late Claim Law (Gov. Code 946.6). 
On August 14, 2023, the court dismissed Plaintiff’s action for the
failure to prosecute. 
On
February 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion. 
 
On
March 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a ‘Reply In Support Of Motion Vacating
Dismissal Pursuant To The Mandatory Provisions Of C.C.P. §473(B) And Restoring
Matter.’
On
March 18, 2024, the court, after noticing that the instant motion was not
served upon Defendant, continued the hearing to 4/19/24 to ensure adequate
notice of the hearing to Defendant. For this reason, Plaintiff’s argument in
sur-reply that any opposition is untimely is completely without merit.

On March 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed a substitution
of attorney noting that Kevin Anderson has been hired as counsel.
On April 4, 2024, Defendant filed its opposition.
On April 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a ‘Supplemental
Reply In Support Of Motion Vacating Dismissal Pursuant To The Mandatory
Provisions Of C.C.P. §473(B) And Restoring Matter.’
On April 11, 2024, Defendant filed ‘Sur Reply To
Motion Vacating Dismissal.’
Legal Standard
 
Plaintiff brings forth the motion pursuant to CCP Section
473(b). 
 
Under CCP 473(b), a judgment may be set
aside due to mistake, inadvertence, surprise, and excusable neglect. The terms
are defined as follows:  
 
Mistake is not a ground for relief under section 473, subdivision (b),
when ‘the court finds that the “mistake” is simply the result of professional
incompetence, general ignorance of the law, or unjustifiable negligence in
discovering the law ....’ [Citation] Further, ‘[t]he term “surprise,” as used
in section 473, refers to “some condition or situation in which a party ... is
unexpectedly placed to his injury, without any default or negligence of his
own, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.” [Citation]
Finally, as for inadvertence or neglect, ‘[t]o warrant relief under section 473
a litigant's neglect must have been such as might have been the act of a
reasonably prudent person under the same circumstances. The inadvertence
contemplated by the statute does not mean mere inadvertence in the abstract. If
it is wholly inexcusable it does not justify relief.’ [Citation] 
 
(Henderson v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2010) 187
Cal.App.4th 215, 229-230.) 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff moves to set aside the dismissal of his
case on the grounds that his mismanagement of his case falls under “excusable
neglect.” Not so. 
 
According to
Plaintiff, the facts here constitute as “excusable neglect” because he mis-calendared
certain dates and misread minute orders. (Motion p. 3 of 36 of PDF.) Additionally,
Plaintiff argues that “[a] similarly situated person, would not know
that an amendment to a Complaint was required to reallege a surviving cause of
action, within 30 days, if 90 days later a case management conference was held
and the City engaged in discovery, if in fact all causes of actions were subject
the demurrer.” (Motion p. 3.) 
 
Here, however, none of the advanced reasons arise to the
level of excusable neglect. Actually, Plaintiff’s conduct throughout the course
of litigation has been intentional. 
 
As noted by Defendant in opposition, if Plaintiff was unsure
of the requirements to file an Amended Complaint, he had ample opportunity to
1) consult an attorney; 2) reach out to self-help; or 3) reach out to
Defendant’s counsel in order to determine what was required of him. (Opp. p.
6.) That is what a reasonably prudent person, one who treats their
case as important, would have done. Plaintiff, however, chose not to. To
the extent that Plaintiff in sur-reply argues that “there is no current
requirement that a Plaintiff must file an amended complaint after a demurrer is
sustained to fewer than all causes of action” (Sur-Reply p. 2 of 13 of PDF),
that but further aids the court’s decision in dismissing Plaintiff’s case. It was not Plaintiff’s mere
failure to file an amended complaint but his repeated attempts at failing to
do much, if anything, during the action.
 
In the
court’s 8/14/23 ruling, discovery responses were due to Defendant’s discovery
by March 21, 2023. However, despite an extension to April 4, 2023 and to date
of the 8/14/23 hearing, Plaintiff failed to provide any response
whatsoever, despite contending otherwise in his opposition to the discovery
motions. And it was not just with the discovery motions that Plaintiff engaged
in dilatory tactics. Plaintiff
failed to appear to multiple hearings.[1]
Plaintiff did not fail to appear once, not twice, not three times, but
four times to a hearing. Plaintiff failed to appear at the
2/14/23 hearing on the City’s demurrer; Plaintiff failed to appear to the
4/26/23 OSC Re: Why the Case Should Not Be Dismissed for Plaintiff's Failure to
Appear; failed to appear to the CMC on 5/5/23; and failed to appear at the 7/06/23
OSC Re: Why the Court Should not Dismiss the Entirety of Case. 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff avers this time will
be different, the motion itself evidences otherwise. 
 
First, regarding
service: According to
Plaintiff, he served the City with notice of the motion on 2/14/24. For
one, a party to an action may not serve papers. Second, the POS (Motion p. 36
of 36 of PDF) indicates that the documents Plaintiff served were discovery
motions, which is not the motion at issue. For Plaintiff to seek relief without
adhering to the fundamental rules of due process and by fraudulently informing
this court that party was served is conduct that warrants sanctions, and
ultimately ties into the City’s position that Plaintiff’s conduct has been
“contemptuous from the outset.” (See 8/14/23 ruling.) 
 
Second, regarding counsel: Plaintiff contends that he
has hired counsel to litigate the matter for him. Indeed, a ‘Reply’ was filed
by counsel Kevin Anderson wherein counsel conclusively states, without
acknowledging the series of events that have transpired in this case, that
“any doubt in applying section 473 be resolved in his favor of the party
seeking relief.” (Reply p. 3 of 5 of PDF.) Based on the foregoing, however,
there is no doubt that the case should not be resolved in Plaintiff’s
favor.  
 
All in all, while
failing to appear at one hearing or by failing to response to discovery
motion may be a valid mistake, Plaintiff failed to appear, failed to respond to
discovery, and failed to oppose motions “over and over again.”
(Sur-Reply p. 2:11-12.) Doing
the same thing repeatedly is no longer a mistake; it is intentional. As Plaintiff states, he has incurred
medical bills exceeding $20,000.00, property damages of approximately
$5,000.00 and loss of income in the range of $6,000.00. (Motion p. 7 of 36 of
PDF.) If the case was so important, Plaintiff would not attempt at the eleventh
hour to voice his insincere commitment to prosecuting the case.[2] 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, as Plaintiff’s motion but further evidences that
he is not and will not diligently and properly litigate his case,
the motion is denied with prejudice. 


