 Case Number:  23STCV18241    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  40 
23STCV18241 Aidee
 Jacqueline Tinoco Bucio v. Khowshro Benji, et al.
Thursday,
 January 16, 2025
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING CROSS-COMPLAINANT’S
MOTION TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH INSPECTION DEMANDS AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS 
 
I.      
BACKGROUND
The first amended complaint alleges 21 causes of action
arising from alleged harassment, discrimination, retaliation, among other
claims in violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act. Plaintiff, who was
employed as a housekeeper, also alleges claims for assault and battery and wage
and hour claims in violation of the Labor Code.
Khosrow Benji (“Cross-Complainant” or “Benji”), filed a
first amended cross-complaint  against
Plaintiff (“Cross-Defendant” or “Bucio”) alleging three causes of action for negligence,
intentional infliction of emotional distress, and physical elder abuse arising
from injuries suffered by Cross-Complainant, who slipped on the tile patio at
his residence after Cross-Defendant washed it. 
II.     ARGUMENTS
      After the
parties met and conferred, Cross-complainant Benji agreed to produce documents in
response to Requests 7 and 8 of Benji’s document requests. While supplemental
responses were served, Bucio did not produce any documents. Benji asks for
imposition of monetary sanctions against Cross-Defendant and counsel of record.
      In opposition,
Cross-Defendant Bucio argues supplemental responses to the request for
production of documents were served on October 25, 2024, however, Benji did not
request that Plaintiff produce additional documents. Rather, Benji filed this
motion. The motion is moot since Bucio served documents on December 10, 2024.
The request for sanctions should be denied since Plaintiff complied with the
document request.
      In reply,
Benji argues that the motion is not moot. After the parties met and conferred,
Bucio agreed to produce all responsive documents with her supplemental responses.
Bucio did not produce documents until 15 days after the motion was filed. The documents
served on December 10, 2024, did not include documents showing each person or
entity to whom Bucio provided housekeeping services, contrary to her deposition
testimony stating she worked for two other individuals. 
III.    DISCUSSION

      If a
responding party fails to produce documents consistent with a statement of
compliance, the propounding party can move to compel a responding party to produce
documents if that party fails to comply with a statement of compliance. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.320 subd. (a).) Cross-complainant’s counsel
met and conferred by email with opposing counsel, who served supplemental
responses, agreeing to produce documents in response to Requests 7 and 8. (Kroll
Decl., Ex: 3; Ex. 4 7:18 – 8:18-20.) Bucio did not produce the requested
documents consistent with the statement of compliance until December 10, 2024,
after Benji filed this motion. (Barahmand decl. ¶ 11.) Cross-Defendant does not
cite any authority that requires Benji to meet and confer twice, when Benji had
already agreed to produce documents
      An order to
compel compliance is unnecessary given Cross-Defendant’s belated compliance. To
the extent production is deficient, the parties are ordered to meet and confer before
filing any further motions. 
      Cross-complainant
is entitled to an award of sanctions for costs incurred to prepare this motion.
While Mr. Kroll requests $675 per hour, the court finds that $400 per hour is a
reasonable rate given this type of non-complex discovery motion.  The court finds that four hours to prepare the
motion, reply, and to appear is a reasonable time. 
IV.   CONCLUSION
      Based on the
foregoing, Cross-complainant’s motion is GRANTED. The court awards sanctions of
$1,600 plus $60 in costs incurred, in favor of Cross-complainant and against
Cross-Defendant, Aidee Jacqueline Tinoco Bucio, and counsel Navid Barahmand,
jointly and severally, payable within 10 days. 
      