 Case Number:  24STCV02905    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2025    Dept:  40 
24STCV02905
 Richard Bragg v. Louis A. Bragg
Thursday,
 June 16, 2025
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION TO STAY THE UNLAWFUL DETAINER CASE (CASE NO. 24CMUD01555)
 
      This
action arises from a dispute regarding ownership of real property located at
1458 243rd Street in Harbor City. Plaintiff alleges he resided on
the real property from 2007 to the present and paid all property taxes,
maintenance, and upgrades associated with the property. Plaintiff alleges
claims for quiet title based on adverse possession, unjust enrichment,
declaratory and injunctive relief, and for a preliminary and permanent
injunction. 
      On
December 2, 2024, the court denied Plaintiff’s request to relate this action to
an unlawful detainer action pending in Department 7 of the South Central
District (24CMUD01555). In that action, Saiful Islam and A. Nesa, LLC, bought
the real property at issue and commenced an unlawful detainer action against
Plaintiff. Plaintiff requests a stay of the unlawful detainer set for trial on
December 9, 2024.
      In
opposition, Defendant in the unlawful detainer action, A. Nessa, LLC argues that
it bought the real property at issue at a foreclosure sale. The court in this
matter determined that the unlawful detainer action was not related. There is
no process that would permit this court to stay a proceeding of another court.
If the court stays the unlawful detainer proceeding, Plaintiff should be
required to pay the reasonable rental value of the subject property. 
      In
reply, Plaintiff disagrees with the court’s decision declining to relate the
case. 
      The
court does not have jurisdiction over the unlawful detainer case. Nor has
Plaintiff cited any authority giving this court authority to stay matters
pending in another court in which it has no jurisdiction. To the extent that
Plaintiff seeks an order for this court to reconsider its December 2, 2024,
ruling, that request is DENIED as it does not comply with the procedural
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure § 1008, which requires the motion to be
made within 10 days of notice of the court’s ruling, and demonstrate that new
or different circumstances, or law warrant reconsideration and modification of
the court’s order. 
      Finally,
to the extent that Plaintiff believes that the Court erred by not relating the cases,
Plaintiff could have filed a Motion in Department 1 seeking to relate the
cases. (Los Angeles Superior Court Local Rules, Rule 3.3, subd. (f)(3).)  
      Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion is DENIED. 