  Case Number:  22STCV01510    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Robert La Masney’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Requests for Production            Plaintiff
Robert La Masney moves to compel defendant Christian Schrader to provide
further responses to requests for production Nos. 47 and 48.  A requesting party may move to compel further
responses to requests for production if “[a] statement of compliance with the
demand is incomplete,” “[a] representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive,” or “[a]n objection in the response is
without merit or too general.”  (CCP §
2031.310(a).)            Schrader made meritless objections to
requests for production Nos. 47 and 48. 
No. 47 demands, “Any and all Supplemental Audio LLC calendars from
January 1, 2015 through December 31, 2017 in WEEKLY FORMAT.”  Schrader made numerous objections.  Overall, the objections rely on the premise
that plaintiff already requested these documents and Schrader already produced
them.  Plaintiff’s request No. 44
demanded, “Any and all Supplemental Audio LLC calendars from January 1, 2015
through December 31, 2017.”  In response,
Schrader produced calendars in monthly format. 
(Schulman Decl., Ex. B.)  Plaintiff shows good cause to demand
the calendars in weekly format.  The
monthly calendars do not show the duration of each event.  The monthly calendars state, for example, on
January 7, 2015, “10:00 AM People’s Choice Awards.”  (Schulman Decl., Ex. B, p. CCG006689.)  After plaintiff filed this motion, Schrader
produced some calendars in weekly format. 
The weekly calendar entry for the same event states, “People’s Choice
Awards 10:00 – 20:00.”  (Schulman Reply
Decl., Ex. A, p. SSG-001601.)  This
request elicited additional evidence that may be admissible.No. 48 demands, “Any and all Supplemental Audio LLC
calendars from January 1, 2015 through December 31, 2017 in NATIVE FORMAT.”  Schrader made numerous objections
that again rely primarily on the premise that he already produced the
responsive documents and the request was cumulative and duplicative.  Plaintiff
shows good cause for this demand.  Code
of Civil Procedure section provides, “A party
demanding inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of electronically stored information
may specify the form or forms in which each type of electronically stored
information is to be produced.”  (CCP §
2031.030(a)(2).)  Plaintiff defined “NATIVE FORMAT” to
“mean the default format of a file, access to which is typically provided
through the software program on which it was created, with all metadata
intact.”  Documents in native format often
contain metadata (for example, information about how the files were created), which
may be admissible.  (See Ellis v. Toshiba America Information Systems, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 853, 859, fns. 4
& 5 (Ellis).)  The request was
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence and was
not cumulative or duplicative.  Schrader contends no native format exists.  He states, “I used Google calendar, which to
my understanding does not have ‘Native Format’ on my computer.”  (Schrader Decl., ¶ 7.)  The record shows he emailed some of the
calendars to plaintiff in pdf files. 
(Supp. Schulman Decl., Ex. A, p. 1; Ex. B, p. 1.)  Plaintiff presents evidence there is a way to download native
versions of the calendar files.  Plaintiff’s
counsel states, “On April 10, 2024, I conducted a google search for how to
export files from a Google Calendar” and found a webpage explaining how to do
that.  (Supp. Schulman Decl., ¶ 7.)                Schrader’s objections to requests
for production Nos. 47 and 48 are overruled.Schrader must respond to request Nos. 47 and 48 with
a statement of compliance asserting that “all documents or things in the
demanded category that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party
… will be included in the production.” 
(CCP § 2031.220.)  SanctionsPlaintiff moves for monetary
sanctions against Schrader.  “[T]he court
shall impose a monetary sanction … against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes” a motion to compel further responses to
requests for production “unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (CCP
§ 2031.310(h).)  Schrader acted with substantial
justification.  Though his objections
were ultimately meritless, it was reasonable to object that demanding calendars
in monthly, weekly, and native format was cumulative or duplicative. Plaintiff’s reply argues defendant later
produced calendars that “appear to be created from a different program than
calendars previously produced in this matter.” 
(Supp. Schulman Decl., ¶ 4.)  He
does not present sufficient evidence of that. 
Practice guides
recommend first learning how the opposing party maintains or creates
electronically stored information before demanding the information itself.  (Thomas, Electronic Evid. in Cal. (2023-2024 ed.) § 3:1.)  Plaintiff does not present such evidence.  That Schrader produced calendars that look
different (Supp. Schulman Decl., Exs. A-D) does not necessarily mean Schrader
used different software to create or maintain them.  The only evidence in the record of how
Schrader maintained this electronically stored information is his
declaration.  He states, “When doing work
for clients of Crowd Control Group, LLC, I tracked my time on Google
calendar.”  (Schrader Decl., ¶ 4.)  He further states, “I do not have any other
calendars for that period of time for the work that I did for Crowd Control
Group, LLC.”  (Id., ¶ 6.)  Schrader
also acted with substantial justification in opposing the request for documents
in native format for another reason.  Plaintiff
used a common and generally applicable definition of “native format”: the way
files are “typically
provided through the software program.” 
(See Ellis, supra, 218 Cal.App.4th at p. 859, fn. 4.) 
That definition     does
not necessarily fit files
stored on the internet that the user accesses through a web browser or other
application.  Plaintiff’s counsel shows
there is a way “to
export files from a Google Calendar.”  (Supp.
Schulman Decl., ¶ 7.)  Exporting the raw or native format files is not how the files
are “typically provided through the software program.”  The exported files are not how users like
Schrader view or edit their calendars. 
They are an alternative format or the format by which Google maintains
or hosts the files.DispositionPlaintiff Robert La Masney’s motion to compel
defendant Christian Schrader to provide further responses to requests for production
is granted.  Defendant Christian Schrader is ordered to provide further responses without objections and with verified
statements of compliance under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.220 to
requests for production, set three, Nos. 47 and 48 within 20
days.  Defendant
Christian Schrader shall produce all responsive documents concurrently with his verified
written responses.
 
 