 Case Number:  23STCV01875    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants
Armando Berriz and Berriz Law Group, PC’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings 
Defendants Armando Berriz and Berriz
Law Group, PC (collectively, Berriz), move for judgment on the pleadings on
plaintiff The Law Offices of Jacob Emrani, APC’s first amended complaint.
Plaintiff’s
claims against Berriz arise from a dispute between plaintiff as the discharged
attorney and Berriz as the subsequent attorney in a personal injury action on
behalf of former client and current defendant Karen Edmonson.  Defendants rely on the rule that “ ‘[a]fter
the client obtains a judgment, the attorney must bring a separate, independent
action against the client to establish the existence of the lien, to determine
the amount of the lien, and to enforce it.’ ” 
(Mojtahedi v. Vargas (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 974, 977–978 (Mojtahedi).)  There, the Court of Appeal held a demurrer
was properly sustained without leave to amend because the complaint “failed to
allege facts establishing that he adjudicated the existence, value, or enforceability
of” the initial attorney’s “lien.”  (Id.
at p. 978.)  The court noted the initial
attorney “admits that he never brought a separate action against his clients to
litigate those issues.”  (Ibid.)
Mojtahedi
does not apply here because plaintiff has sued the client.  The “independent action” rule refers to an
action independent of the underlying action representing the client, i.e.,
Edmonson’s personal injury case.  This is
such an independent action.  Berriz
provides no authority requiring the former attorney to bring two independent
actions: one against the client, then a second against the subsequent attorney.  The Court of Appeal criticized that premise
in Aresh v. Marin-Morales (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 296.  In a footnote, the court stated, “We believe Mojtahedi
is distinguishable from this case.  In Mojtahedi,
the initial attorney attempted to enforce his fee lien against the subsequent
attorney without involving the clients. 
…  In contrast to Mojtahedi,
Aresh did include his former clients in his lawsuit, thus giving them the
opportunity to be heard that was improperly denied to the clients in that case.  The issue of simultaneous litigation was
never raised in Mojtahedi.”  (Id.
at p. 302, fn. 3.)  
The
court finds this reasoning persuasive.  Plaintiff
simultaneously brings claims against former client Edmonson and subsequent
attorney Berriz.  Mojtahedi
therefore does not mandate dismissing plaintiff’s claims against Berriz.  Requiring plaintiff to litigate these claims in
two actions would not serve the interests of justice.
Defendants
Armando Berriz and Berriz Law Group, PC’s motion for judgment on the pleadings
is denied.