  Case Number:  20STCV01544    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




MIKE YESSIAN, et al.
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
GARFIELD BEACH CVS LLC, et al.
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


 20STCV01544
  




Hearing Date:


December 6, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
MOTION FOR
  JUDGMENT NOTHWITHSTANDING THE VERDICT OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, MOTION FOR A NEW
  TRIAL
 




            
 
Background
Plaintiffs Mike Yessian and Mandi Martinez filed this action on January
13, 2020 against Defendant Garfield Beach CVS LLC. On March 14, 2023, Plaintiffs
Michael Yessian and Mandi Martinez (jointly, “Plaintiffs”)
filed the operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) against Defendants Garfield
Beach CVS LLC dba CVS Pharmacy Store and Deborah Padilla. The TAC alleges causes
of action for (1) discrimination in violation of the Unruh Act; (2) defamation
per se; (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress, and (4) negligent
hiring, supervision, or retention of employee. 
On October 4, 2024, the Court entered a Judgment on Jury Verdicts in
this action. The October 4, 2024 Judgment provides, inter alia, that “[t]his
action came on regularly for trial on August 7, 2024, in Department 50 of the
Superior Court for the County of Los Angeles, the Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet
presiding…Plaintiffs asserted four (4) causes of action in their operative
Third Amended Complaint (‘TAC’ or ‘the Action’): (1) Discrimination in
Violation of the Unruh Act; (2) Defamation Per Se; (3) Intentional Infliction
of Emotional Distress; and (4) Negligent Hiring, Supervision, or Retention of
Employee. On February 22, 2023, the Court granted Defendants’ Motion for
Summary Adjudication as to Plaintiffs’ Fourth Cause of Action for Negligent
Hiring, Training, Supervision and/or Retention of Employee.” 
The October 4, 2024 Judgment further provides that “[o]n August 7,
2024, a jury of fourteen (14) persons, including three alternates, was
regularly impaneled and sworn in to hear testimony, consider all admissible
evidence, and hear argument of counsel as to Plaintiff’s three (3) remaining
causes of action against Defendants. Witnesses were sworn and testified. After
hearing the evidence and arguments of counsel, the jury was duly instructed by
the Court and the cause was submitted to twelve (12) jurors for deliberation
and decision. The jury deliberated and, on August 16, 2024, delivered to the
Court verdicts in favor of both Defendants, as set forth in the Special Verdict
Forms signed by the Presiding Juror, copies of which are attached hereto as
Exhibits A and B. By reason of said jury verdicts and prior court rulings, both
Defendants are entitled to judgment against both Plaintiffs.” The October 4,
2024 Judgment provides “NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED
that Judgment be and is hereby entered in favor of Defendants and against
Plaintiffs, that Plaintiffs take nothing from Defendants…” 
On November 7, 2024, the Court issued a minute order in this action
providing, inter alia, that “[t]he Court is in receipt of Plaintiff’s
Michael Yessian and Mandi Martinez’s Joint Notice of Intent to Move for a New
Trial filed October 22, 2024 and a Notice of Motion for Judgment
Notwithstanding the Verdict or in the Alternative, Motion for a New Trial filed
November 1, 2024. The Courts [sic] sets the matter as follows: Hearing on
Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict or in the Alternative, Motion
for a New Trial is scheduled for 12/06/24 at 02:00 PM in Department 50 at
Stanley Mosk Courthouse.” 
 
Plaintiffs now move “for judgment in its [sic] favor on all claims
notwithstanding the verdict rendered by the jury on August 16, 2024.” Plaintiffs
also move for a new trial. Garfield Beach CVS LLC and Deborah Padilla (jointly,
“Defendants”) oppose. 
Procedural Issues 
In connection with their opposition to the
instant motion, Defendants filed a request for a “10-day extension to
file the complete certified trial transcript in support of their Opposition to
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict or, in the
Alternative, Motion for New Trial.” (Defendants’ Request for Extension at p.
2:2-5 [emphasis omitted].) 
Defendants cite to Code of Civil Procedure
section 659a, which provides that “[w]ithin 10 days of filing the notice, the moving party shall
serve upon all other parties and file any brief and accompanying documents,
including affidavits in support of the motion. The other parties shall have 10
days after that service within which to serve upon the moving party and file
any opposing briefs and accompanying documents, including counter-affidavits.
The moving party shall have five days after that service to file any reply
brief and accompanying documents. These deadlines may, for good cause shown by
affidavit or by written stipulation of the parties, be extended by any judge
for an additional period not to exceed 10 days.” 
The Court notes that the 10-day
extension of Defendants’ opposition deadline allowed by Code of Civil Procedure section 659a appears to
have already passed. In addition, it does not appear
that Defendants have yet filed any complete certified trial
transcript in support of their opposition.  
In his declaration in support
of the opposition, Defendants’ counsel states that “[m]y office
received service of Plaintiffs’ Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict
or, in the Alternative, Motion for a New Trial (the ‘Motion’) on November 1,
2024. Upon my initial review of the moving papers, it appeared to me that
Plaintiffs had included a complete certified transcript of trial via the
declaration of Plaintiffs’ counsel. However, upon closer review, I noted that
several portions of the proceedings were missing from the transcripts
Plaintiffs submitted.” (Haeffele Decl., ¶ 3.) Defendants’ counsel states that “[i]mmediately
after learning of the deficiencies in the official transcripts, on November 7,
2024, my office contacted the court reporting service to expedite the full
certified transcript of trial. However, we were told that the transcript could
not be processed by November 13. My office then requested, at minimum, that the
court reporting service send us the missing portions of the transcript. We were
told that the court reporting service remained unable to fulfill that request
prior to November 13.” (Haeffele Decl., ¶ 4.) Defendants’ counsel states that
“[d]uring trial, my office requested daily ‘rough’ trial transcripts from the
Court reporter. The Court reporter provided my office with those ‘rough’
transcripts, and my office has maintained them. True and correct copies of the
‘rough’ trial transcripts are attached hereto for the Court’s review.”
(Haeffele Decl., ¶ 6.) Defendants assert that the Court may consider the
“rough” trial transcripts pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 660, subdivision (a). Defendants also request that “the
court reporters attend the hearing of the Motion and read their notes at the
hearing pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
660(a),” so that the Court may have “the necessary information to rule on
the Motion.” (Haeffele Decl., ¶ 5.) Code of Civil
Procedure section 660, subdivision (a) provides as follows: 
 
“On the hearing of the motion, reference may be
had in all cases to the pleadings and orders of the court on file, and when the
motion is made on the minutes, reference may also be had to any depositions and
documentary evidence offered at the trial and to the report of the proceedings
on the trial taken by the phonographic reporter, or to any certified transcript
of the report or if there be no such report or certified transcript, to
proceedings occurring at the trial that are within the recollection of the
judge; when the proceedings at the trial have been phonographically reported,
but the reporter’s notes have not been transcribed, the reporter shall, upon
request of the court or either party, attend the hearing of the motion and read
his or her notes, or such parts thereof as the court, or either party, may
require.”    
In the reply, Plaintiffs do not oppose Defendants’ request that the
Court consider the “rough” trial transcripts or Defendants’ request that the
court reporters attend the hearing on the instant motion. In light of the
foregoing, the Court will consider Defendants’ “rough” trial transcripts and
grants Defendants’ request that the court reporters attend the hearing on the instant
motion.[1] 
In addition, Plaintiffs state that they seek an order “authorizing
Plaintiff’s [sic] late filed reply in support of Plaintiffs’ Motion for
Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict or, in the Alternative, Motion for New
Trial…” (Plaintiffs’ Declaration of Good Cause at p. 2:1-3.) Plaintiffs’
counsel states that “[o]n November 13, 2024, my office received Defendants’
Opposition to Plaintiffs’ Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict or,
in the Alternative, Motion for New Trial. Defendants also served me with a
request asking the court for a 10 day extension to supplement their reply [sic]…I
accordingly decided to wait a few days and see if the request would be granted
as I did want to file a reply and another reply after Defendants Opposition was
supplemented…Seeing that no action was taken by the court in relation to
Defendants’ request, I am concurrently filing Plaintiffs’ reply.”
(Alaric-Lorenzo Decl., ¶¶ 2-4.) 
Plaintiffs
cite to Code of Civil Procedure section 659a in
support of their request.[2]
Based on Plaintiffs’ counsel’s November
18, 2024 declaration and Code of
Civil Procedure section 659a, the Court grants Plaintiffs’ request that the Court
consider Plaintiffs’ untimely reply. 
Discussion
A.    Motion for
Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict
“The court…shall render judgment in favor of the aggrieved party
notwithstanding the verdict whenever a motion for a directed verdict for the
aggrieved party should have been granted had a previous motion been made.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 629, subd. (a).) The trial court has limited discretion to
grant a motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict; it may grant it only
when there is no substantial evidence to support the verdict. (Teitel v. First L.A. Bank (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1593, 1603;
Sweatman v.
Department of Veterans Affairs (2001) 25 Cal.4th 62, 68 [a JNOV motion “may
be granted only if it appears from the evidence, viewed in the light most
favorable to the party securing the verdict, that there is no substantial
evidence in support”].) A judgment notwithstanding the verdict can be
sustained only when it can be said as a matter of law that no other reasonable
conclusion is legally deducible from the evidence, and that any other holding
would be so lacking in evidentiary support that the reviewing court would be
compelled to reverse it, or the trial court would be compelled to set it aside
as a matter of law.  (Moore v. City & County of San Francisco (1970) 5 Cal.App.3d 728, 733-734.)
The trial judge cannot, therefore, reweigh the evidence, or judge the
credibility of witnesses; if the evidence is conflicting or if several
reasonable inferences may be drawn, the motion for judgment notwithstanding the
verdict should be denied.  (Teitel v. First L.A. Bank,
supra, 231 Cal.App.3d at p. 1603.)
Plaintiffs first assert that “the defamation per se verdict was not
supported by substantial evidence.” (Mot. at p. 2:18-20.) “The elements of a defamation claim are
(1) a publication that is (2) false, (3) defamatory, (4) unprivileged, and (5)
has a tendency to injure or causes special damage.” (Briganti v. Chow (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 504, 509 [internal quotations omitted].) 
As an initial matter, the Court notes that a Special Verdict Form
(Mandi Martinez) was filed in this matter on August 16, 2024. As to the
defamation claim, the first question on the Special Verdict Form is, “1. Did
Deborah Padilla make the following statement to a person other than Mandi
Martinez: ‘She took off with all her stuff and who knows what else’?” The jury
answered “No” to such question. (See August 16, 2024 Special Verdict
Form (Mandi Martinez).) In addition, the Court notes a Special Verdict Form
(Michael Yessian) was also filed on August 16, 2024. As to the defamation
claim, the first question on the Special Verdict Form is, “1. Did Deborah
Padilla make the following statement to a person other than Michael Yessian:
‘Is there anything in your bag, because the police are on their way?’” The jury
answered “No” to such question. (See August 16, 2024 Special Verdict
Form (Michael Yessian).)
In the instant motion, Plaintiffs contend that “[t]he evidence at
trial confirmed that Deborah told Plaintiff Yessian that Plaintiff Martinez had
left the store with her stuff and whatever else she took.” (Mot. at p.
2:26-27.) In support of this assertion, Plaintiffs cite to their “Trial Exhibit
1.” In the instant motion, Plaintiffs do not specify what their “Trial Exhibit
1” is. 
Plaintiffs
appear to point to the following statements contained on “Trial Exhibit 1,”
which has the heading “Start Store Audio”: “Yessian: And she said, I said, yes,
and she said well, she took off with all her stuff and who knows what else.
Padilla: I didn’t say--I said she took off.” (Alaric-Lorenzo Decl., ¶ 2,
Ex. 1 at p. 3:5-9, emphasis added.) Plaintiffs also note that Ms. Padilla
stated “She had a basket.” (Id. at p. 3:13.)
Plaintiffs contend that “when Padilla admits to have said Martinez ‘took off’,
she goes on to explain that Martinez ‘had a basket.’…This was clearly her
explanation for why she made the statement about Martinez taking off with her
stuff and ‘who knows what else.’” (Mot. at p. 3:4-7.) But Plaintiffs do not
appear to point to any evidence showing that Ms. Padilla purportedly “told
Plaintiff Yessian that Plaintiff Martinez had left the store with her stuff
and whatever else she took.” (Mot. at p. 2:26-27, emphasis added.) As set
forth above, Plaintiffs admit that Ms. Padilla stated, “I said she took off.” 
Plaintiffs also contend that “Deborah Padilla is…a liar,” (Mot. at p.
3:9), but again, Plaintiffs do not appear to cite to any evidence demonstrating
that Ms. Padilla purportedly “told Plaintiff Yessian that Plaintiff Martinez
had left the store with her stuff and whatever else she took,” or that
such purported statement was false. (Mot. at p. 2:26-27, emphasis added.) As
set forth above, the first two elements of a defamation claim are “(1) a
publication that is (2) false…” (Briganti v. Chow, supra, 42 Cal.App.5th at p. 509.)

Plaintiffs also argue in the instant motion that “[t]he evidence at
trial confirmed that Deborah Padilla told Plaintiff Michael Yessian to remove
any stolen items from his bag as the Police were on their way.” (Mot. at p.
3:17-18.) But in support of this assertion, Plaintiffs appear to cite to the
following testimony from Ms. Padilla at trial: “Q[.] SO YOU ARE ADMITTING THAT
MR. YESSIAN WAS CORRECT WHEN HE SAID YOU SPOKE TO HIM ABOUT THE POLICE;
CORRECT? A[.] I DID NOT SPEAK TO HIM. I’M THINKING HE’S HEARING IT OVER OUR
INTERCOM. I JUST GO IT WASN’T FOR HER. THAT’S HOW -- I DIDN’T SAY THE POLICE
WERE THERE. HE’S SAYING THE POLICE WERE THERE AND I GO IT WASN’T FOR YOU AND I’M
THINKING HE’S MEANING THE ALARM. Q[.] BUT YOU TESTIFIED THAT THE ALARM HAD A
DRUG CODE, IT BASICALLY WAS TO ALERT YOU THAT SOMEONE HAD DONE DRUGS IN THE
STORE; RIGHT? A[.] RIGHT. Q[.] IS THAT THE SAME ALARM FOR WHEN THE POLICE WERE
CALLED TO THE STORE? A[.] I DON’T KNOW IF THE POLICE WERE CALLED. I JUST KNOW I
DID NOT SAY THOSE AND I JUST GO IT WASN’T FOR YOU. I MEAN, HE’S SAYING THAT I
SAID WE CALLED THE POLICE ON HER. WE DID NOT. I DID NOT.” (Alaric-Lorenzo Decl.,
¶ 2, Ex. A (Reporter’s Partial Transcript of Proceedings Tuesday August 13, 2024)
at pp. 71:27-72:15.) 
As noted by Defendants, “Padilla denied ever making the statement.”
(Opp’n at p. 11:11.) 
Plaintiffs
do not appear to show that “Deborah Padilla told Plaintiff Michael Yessian to
remove any stolen items from his bag as the Police were on their way,” (Mot. at
p. 3:17-18) and accordingly do not show that any such purported statement was
false. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Plaintiffs have
shown that there is no substantial evidence in
support of the verdict on Plaintiffs’ defamation claims. 
Next, Defendants assert that “the Unruh Act verdict was not supported
by substantial evidence.” (Mot. at p. 5:23-24.) “The Unruh Civil Rights Act, codified at [Civil Code section
51] was enacted to prohibit discriminatory conduct by individual
proprietors and private entities offering goods and services to the
general public.” (Thurston v. Omni Hotels
Management Corp. (2021) 69
Cal.App.5th 299, 305 [internal quotations omitted].) The elements
of a claim for violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act are: (1) that defendant
denied/aided or incited a denial of/discriminated or made a distinction that
denied full and equal accommodations/advantages/facilities/privileges/services
to plaintiff; (2) that a substantial motivating reason for defendant’s conduct was its perception of plaintiff’s protected characteristic;
or that the protected characteristic of a person whom plaintiff was
associated with was a substantial motivating reason for defendant’s conduct;
(3) plaintiff was harmed; and (4) defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor
in causing plaintiff’s harm. (CACI 3060.) 
The Court notes that Question
11 of the Mandi Martinez Special Verdict Form provides, “11. Did CVS through
the conduct of Deborah Padilla and/or William Pineda deny, discriminate or make
a distinction that denied full and equal facilities, privileges, and/or services
to Mandi Martinez?” The jury answered “No” to such question. (See
August 16, 2024 Special Verdict Form (Mandi Martinez).) In addition, Question
11 of the Michael Yessian Special Verdict Form provides, “11. Did CVS through the conduct of Deborah
Padilla and/or William Pineda deny, discriminate or make a distinction that
denied full and equal facilities, privileges, and/or services to Michael
Yessian?” The jury answered “No” to such question. (See August
16, 2024 Special Verdict Form (Michael Yessian).)  
In
the instant motion, Plaintiffs argue that “CVS’ employees including
Deborah Padilla, denied, discriminated or made a distinction that denied full
and equal accommodations, facilities, privileges or services to Plaintiffs.”
(Mot. at p. 6:14-15.) More specifically, Plaintiffs assert that “Defendants
harassed Plaintiffs and falsely accused them of stealing. Because of this,
Plaintiff Martinez was denied access to the restroom and accused of theft while
Mr. Yessian on his part, was also accused of theft and was forced to exit the
store.” (Mot. at p. 6:16-19.) 
Plaintiffs appear to cite to page 2:6-11 of Trial Exhibit 1, which
provides, “Martinez: Okay, so was I told the bathroom was being cleaned because
you were discriminating because I’m a short Mexican with a big purse, from what
she told my husband? Pineda: What are you talking about? The restroom was
getting cleaned at the time.” (Alaric-Lorenzo Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1 at p. 2:6-11.) Mr.
Pineda further stated that “[t]here was a gentleman that had been kicked out
for using heroin in our bathroom, and we were having an issue…” (Id. at p. 5:23-25.) Plaintiffs argue Mr. Pineda
“testified that had [sic] no details to support his made up story that a man
was doing heroin in the restroom.” (Mot. at p. 6:23-25.) As an initial matter,
Plaintiffs do not appear to cite to any evidence demonstrating that Mr. Pineda
“made up” the fact someone had been using heroin in the bathroom. Plaintiffs
cite to pages “12:27-28, 13:1-28, 14:1-28” of the August 8, 2024 trial
transcript (Mot. at p. 6:24-25), but there is no page “12:27-28” on this
transcript, and pages 13:1-25 and 14:1-25 of the transcript do not contain any
testimony concerning the restroom issue. (See Alaric-Lorenzo Decl., ¶ 2,
Ex. A (Reporter’s Transcript of Partial Trial Proceedings Direct Examination of
Michael Yessian Thursday, August 8, 2024).) 
Plaintiffs argue that “[t]he restroom at the store was available and
Pineda simply did not allow Mandi to use it,” (Mot. at pp. 6:28-7:1), but do
not appear to cite to any evidence supporting such proposition. Moreover, as
noted by Defendants, the trial transcript from August 8, 2024 provides, inter
alia, “Q. Okay. Do you remember what the store manager said to you and
Mandi or to you when you went back into the store? A. He apologized and that
he, you know, didn’t -- had no clue what we were even talking about at first,
you know, and then he said he never thought she was stealing and that the
police weren’t called on me; that they were called but on a separate matter,
and that’s when he told us about the gentleman using the heroin in the
bathroom.” (Alaric-Lorenzo Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A (Reporter’s Transcript of Partial Trial
Proceedings Direct Examination of Michael Yessian Thursday, August 8, 2024) at
p. 30:22-31:7.) 
As set forth above, Plaintiffs also assert that Defendants “falsely
accused them of stealing.” (Mot. at p. 6:17.) In support of the assertion that
there were “false allegations of theft,” Plaintiffs appear to cite to
statements from the following portion of Trial Exhibit 1: “Yessian: I said it,
she asked me if I needed help. I said I was looking for my wife and she said,
is she a short Mexican girl with a big purse? Pineda: Uh-huh. Yessian: And she
said, I said, yes, and she said well, she took off with all her stuff and who
knows what else. Padilla: I didn’t say--I said she took off. Yessian: Yes you
did, and then she said, well, is there anything in your bag, because-- Padilla:
She had a basket. Yessian: Is there anything in your bag, because the police
are on their way. I said, fine, have the police on their way, because there’s--why
would there be anything like that, we haven’t bought anything.” (Alaric-Lorenzo
Decl., ¶ 2 Ex. 1 at p. 2:24-3:18.) But Plaintiffs do not appear to cite to
evidence clearly demonstrating that Plaintiffs were “falsely accused” of
stealing. As discussed in further detail above, Plaintiffs cite to Ms.
Padilla’s statement that “I said she took off.” (Alaric-Lorenzo Decl., ¶ 2, Ex.
1 at p. 3:8-9.) Plaintiffs do not show that Ms. Padilla testified that Ms.
Martinez “had left the store with her bag and who knows what else.” (Mot. at p.
7:10-12.) Moreover, Plaintiffs do not appear to provide evidence showing that
they were “denied any facility or service.” (Opp’n at p. 10:9.) 
The Court does not find that Plaintiffs have shown that there is no substantial evidence in support of the
verdict on Plaintiffs’ Unruh Act claims.  
Lastly, Plaintiffs argue that their “third cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress is subject to summary judgment or
adjudication because there is no genuine dispute of material fact and Plaintiff
is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Mot. at p. 9:18-20.) As an
initial matter, Plaintiffs’ notice of motion indicates that Plaintiffs move
“for judgment in its [sic] favor on all claims notwithstanding the verdict
rendered by the jury on August 16, 2024” (Notice of Motion at p. 1:23-25), not
that Plaintiffs move for summary judgment or summary adjudication. 
Moreover, the Court finds that any purported motion for summary
judgment and/or summary adjudication is procedurally improper. The Court notes
that procedural issues include but are not limited to the fact that a motion
for summary judgment “shall be heard no later than
30 days before the date of trial, unless the court for good cause orders
otherwise,” and that “[t]he supporting papers shall include a separate
statement setting forth plainly and concisely all material facts that the
moving party contends are undisputed.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (a)(3); (b)(1).) The instant motion does not
comply with these requirements. 
Moreover, to
the extent Plaintiffs’ motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict also
concerns Plaintiffs’ cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress, the Court does not find that Plaintiffs have shown that there is no substantial evidence in support of the
verdict on such cause of action. 
Question 14 of the Mandi
Martinez Special Verdict Form provides, “14. Did Deborah Padilla engage in any
conduct towards Mandi Martinez that was outrageous, as that term has been
defined in the jury instructions?” The jury answered “No” to such question. (See
August 16, 2024 Special Verdict Form (Mandi Martinez).) In addition, Question
14 of the Michael Yessian Special Verdict Form provides, “Did Deborah Padilla engage in any conduct
towards Michael Yessian that was outrageous, as that term has been defined in
the jury instructions?” The jury answered “No” to such question. (See
August 16, 2024 Special Verdict Form (Michael Yessian).)  
“[T]o
state a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress a
plaintiff must show: (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) the
defendant’s intention of causing or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme
emotional distress; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct, to be outrageous must
be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
society.” (Johnson
v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 1097, 1108 [internal
quotations and reference to [Citation.]
omitted].)  
In the instant motion, Plaintiffs contend
that “Defendants engaged in extreme and outrageous conduct with the
intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress when Deborah falsely accused Plaintiffs of theft.” (Mot. at
p. 10:1-2.) Again, Plaintiffs cite to Trial Exhibit 1, but again, such Exhibit
provides, inter alia, “Yessian: I said it, she asked me if I needed
help. I said I was looking for my wife, and she said, is she a short Mexican
girl with a big purse? Pineda: Uh-huh. Yessian: And she said, I said, yes, and
she said well, she took off with all her stuff and who knows what else. Padilla:
I didn’t say--I said she took off.” (Alaric-Lorenzo
Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1 at p. 2:24-3:9, emphasis added.) 
In addition, in the opposition, Defendants assert that “Martinez
cannot establish either intent or recklessness by Padilla either. Padilla
denied any such mens rea, foreclosing JNOV.” (Opp’n at p. 13:28-14:1.) Defendants
cite to the following trial testimony: “Q[.] DID YOU EVER HAVE ANY TYPE OF
DESIRE TO CAUSE MS. MARTINEZ ANY EMOTIONAL DISTRESS? A[.] NO. Q[.] DID YOU EVER
HAVE ANY DESIRE TO CAUSE MR. YESSIAN ANY TYPE OF EMOTIONAL DISTRESS? A[.] NO.
Q[.] DID YOU EVER HAVE A DESIRE TO CAUSE THEM HARM IN ANY WAY? A[.] ABSOLUTELY
NOT.” (Alaric-Lorenzo Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A (Reporter’s Partial Transcript of
Proceedings Tuesday August 13, 2024) at pp. 57:19-27.) Plaintiffs do not appear
to respond to this point in the reply. 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court
does not find that Plaintiffs have shown that “it appears from the
evidence…that there is no substantial evidence in support” of the verdict on
Plaintiffs’ claims. (Sweatman v.
Department of Veterans Affairs, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 68.) Accordingly, the Court denies
Plaintiffs’ motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict. 
B.     Motion for New
Trial
“A motion for new trial is a creature of statute…” (Neal v. Montgomery Elevator Co. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1194, 1198.)
“[A] motion for a new trial can be granted only on one of the grounds
enumerated in the statute.” (Fomco, Inc. v. Joe
Maggio, Inc. (1961) 55 Cal.2d 162,
166.) Accordingly, pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 657, a motion for new trial may be granted only if there
is any:
 
“1. Irregularity
in the proceedings of the court, jury or adverse party, or any order of the
court or abuse of discretion by which either party was prevented from having a
fair trial.
 
2. Misconduct
of the jury; and whenever any one or more of the jurors have been induced to
assent to any general or special verdict, or to a finding on any question
submitted to them by the court, by a resort to the determination of chance,
such misconduct may be proved by the affidavit of any one of the jurors.
 
3. Accident
or surprise, which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.
 
4. Newly
discovered evidence, material for the party making the application, which he
could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the
trial.
 
5. Excessive
or inadequate damages.
 
6. Insufficiency
of the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, or the verdict or
other decision is against law.
 
7. Error in law, occurring at the
trial and excepted to by the party making the application.” 


(Code Civ. Proc., § 657.)

“A new trial shall not be granted upon the ground of insufficiency of
the evidence to justify the verdict or other decision, nor upon the ground of
excessive or inadequate damages, unless after weighing the evidence the court
is convinced from the entire record, including reasonable inferences therefrom,
that the court or jury clearly should have reached a different verdict or
decision.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 657.)  
First, Plaintiffs argue that “a new trial is warranted because there
now exists, newly discovered evidence, material for Plaintiffs, which Plaintiffs
could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the trial
(CCP § 657(4)) and which constitutes a surprise,
which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against (CCP
§ 657(3).” (Mot. at p. 11:5-8.) 
As an initial matter, in the opposition, Defendants cite to Code of Civil Procedure section 658, which provides
that “[w]hen the application is made for a cause mentioned in the first,
second, third and fourth subdivisions of Section 657,
it must be made upon affidavits; otherwise it must be made on the minutes of
the court.” As noted by Defendants, Plaintiffs “did not submit an affidavit
justifying their claims of surprise, newly discovered evidence, and
irregularity in the proceedings. The closest they come is submitting a
declaration from counsel that just attaches exhibits.” (Opp’n at p. 15:24-26.)
However, Defendants do not appear to address the portion of Code of Civil Procedure section 658 providing that “[w]hen the application is made for a cause mentioned in the
first, second, third and fourth subdivisions of Section 657,
it must be made upon affidavits; otherwise it must be made on the minutes of
the court.” (Emphasis added.) Defendants do not appear to assert that
Plaintiffs motion was not “made
on the minutes of the court.” 
In the motion, Plaintiffs assert that “[a]t trial, Hillary Williams
testified that she was the person who made the following statement:
‘[C]ustomers’ were return customers who have been confirmed to have stolen in
the past.” (Mot. at p. 11:8-10.) Plaintiffs cite to, inter alia, the
following testimony: “Q[.] SO THE FINDING THAT YOU HAD ON PAGE 9 -- IF YOU
PLEASE TURN TO PAGE 9 BOTTOM LEFT? WHERE IT SAYS QD SPOKE TO THE SM ADAM
WILLIAMS PINEDA AND HE STATED THAT THE CUSTOMERS WERE RETURN CUSTOMERS WHO HAVE
BEEN CONFIRMED TO HAVE STOLEN IN THE PAST. QD ASKED HER SM WHAT EVIDENCE THERE
WAS AND THERE WASN’T ANYTHING SUFFICIENT. THIS IS A FINDING OF FACT; CORRECT?
MR. FEARS: OBJECTION. MISCHARACTERIZES HER TESTIMONY AND THE DOCUMENT. THE
COURT: SUSTAINED. BY MR. KISOB: Q[.] THIS IS A STATEMENT THAT IS INCLUDED IN
EXHIBIT NO. 3 WHICH IS THE SALES FORCE DOCUMENT; CORRECT? A[.] ARE YOU
REFERRING TO THE COMMENT AT 6:59 P.M.? IS THAT WHAT YOU’RE REFERRING TO? Q[.]
YES. A[.] THOSE WERE MY ROUGH NOTES. THEY WERE NOT FINDING OF FACT. THOSE WERE
MY ROUGH NOTES. Q[.] SO WHEN YOU REVIEWED FINDINGS OF FACT WITH MS. DIEP, YOU
DID NOT REVIEW THIS PORTION OF THIS DOCUMENT THAT I JUST READ OUT? A[.] THE
PORTION AT 6:59 P.M., I DID NOT REVIEW THAT WITH HER BECAUSE THOSE ARE MY ROUGH
NOTES. Q[.] CAN YOU POINT TO ME IN EXHIBIT NO. 3 WHAT PART OF THIS DOCUMENT
THAT YOU REVIEWED WITH MS. DIEP? A[.] I DIDN’T REVIEW THIS DOCUMENT AT ALL WITH
MS. DIEP. WE TALKED ABOUT THE DETAILS OF MY FINDINGS ON THE PHONE. I DIDN’T
REVIEW THE DOCUMENT NOTE.” (Alaric-Lorenzo Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A (Reporter’s
Partial Transcript of Proceedings Wednesday, August 14, 2024) at pp. 7:26-8:25.)
Plaintiffs contend that they “could never have attributed this
statement to Hillary Williams because the store’s Manager, Pineda, had
testified under oath during his deposition that he was the maker of the
statement, and this was long before trial.” (Mot. at p. 11:14-16.) In support
of this assertion, Plaintiffs appear to cite to the following testimony from a
August 14, 2024 trial transcript: “Q[.] QUESTION: OKAY. SO THIS SAYS QD WHICH
HER ABOVE [sic] REFERS TO QUYEN DIEP SPOKE TO THE SM STORE MANAGER ADAM WILLIAM
PINEDA AND HE STATED THAT CUSTOMERS WERE RETURN CUSTOMERS WHO HAVE BEEN
CONFIRMED TO HAVE STOLEN IN THE PAST. QD ASKED THE SM WHAT EVIDENCE THERE WAS
AND THERE WASN’T ANYTHING SUFFICIENT.” (Alaric-Lorenzo Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A
(Reporter’s Partial Transcript of Proceedings Wednesday, August 14, 2024) at
pp. 7:27-8:4.)  
            Plaintiffs appear to assert that the
foregoing evidence pertaining to Hillary Williams is, inter alia, “[n]ewly
discovered evidence, material for the party making the application, which he
could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the
trial.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 657(4).) However, the
Court does not find that Plaintiffs have made any showing that they could not,
with reasonable diligence, have discovered Ms. Williams’ statement and produced
evidence of it at trial. 
Plaintiffs also contend that Defendants “failed to reveal the real
author of the statement and for that reason should be estopped from claiming a
statute of limitations defense.” (Mot. at p. 13:26-28.) This argument is
confusing, and Plaintiffs do not appear to provide any analysis as to why this
is purportedly grounds for a new trial under Code of
Civil Procedure section 657.   
Moreover, Defendants assert that “Plaintiffs were aware of the
statement for years before trial but failed to investigate it. They cannot show
that they exercised the requisite diligence when they knew about the supposedly
‘new evidence’ but chose not to investigate it.” (Opp’n at p. 17:8-10.) Defendants’
counsel states in his supporting declaration that “[o]n June 11, 2020, my
office served on counsel for Plaintiffs, in response to requests for production
propounded by Plaintiffs, a Salesforce document Bates labelled CVS – 000019 to
CVS – 000028.” (Haeffele Decl., ¶ 2.) Defendants assert that Plaintiffs “were
aware of the allegedly defamatory statement, at the latest, on June 11, 2020,
when CVS produced Williams’ Salesforce report, but took no steps to ascertain
the source of the statement or otherwise investigate its circumstances in the
years before trial.” (Opp’n at p. 17:1-4, emphasis omitted.) Defendants state
that “[a]t no point in the litigation did Plaintiffs depose or request to
depose CVS employees Hillary Williams or Deborah Padilla.” (Haeffele Decl., ¶
8.) This point does not appear to be addressed or disputed by Plaintiffs in
their reply. 
Plaintiffs also contend that “Hillary Williams’ confession about being
the sole originator of the statement was a surprise which ordinary prudence
could not have guarded against.” (Mot. at p. 11:24-25, emphasis omitted.) But
Plaintiffs do not appear to provide evidence supporting such proposition. In Fletcher v. Pierceall (1956) 146 Cal.App.2d 859, 866,
cited by Defendants, the Court of Appeal noted that
“[f]rom a very early date—1866—it has been held that surprise, as a ground for
a motion for a new trial, should be looked on with ‘suspicion.’…As pointed out
in 3 Witkin on California Procedure, page 2057, a motion on this ground ‘is
seldom successful’ because the moving party to be entitled to a granting of the
motion must make a showing of injury, a showing of diligence, and a showing
that he did not unduly delay seeking redress.” The Court does not find that
Plaintiffs have shown how they were allegedly injured because Hillary
Williams purportedly made the subject statement instead of Mr. Pineda. In
addition, the Court does not find that Plaintiffs have provided evidence
demonstrating their diligence and that they “did not unduly delay seeking
redress.” (Fletcher v. Pierceall, supra, 146 Cal.App.2d at p. 866.)  
In the motion, Plaintiffs also assert that “Plaintiffs proposed the
following instruction (‘Adoptive Admissions CACI Jury Instruction No. 213): The
court refused to give the instruction.” (Mot. at p. 12:15-16.) Plaintiffs
appear to contend that this is an “error in law, occurring at the trial and
excepted to by Plaintiffs as well as irregularity in the proceedings of the
Court and orders of the Court or abuse of discretion by which Plaintiffs were
prevented from having a fair trial (CCP § 657(1)).”
(Mot. at p. 12:11-13.) 
On July 19, 2024, the Court issued a minute order providing, inter
alia, that “[t]he Court rules on Jury Instructions as follows: 213
objection to proposed instruction 213 is sustained without prejudice.” The
Court notes that CACI No. 213 provides as follows: 
 
“You have heard
evidence that [name of declarant] made the
following statement: [describe statement]. You may
consider that statement as evidence against [name of party against whom
statement was offered] only if you find that all of the following
conditions are true:
 
1. The statement
was made to [name of party against whom statement was offered] or
made in [his/her/nonbinary pronoun] presence;
 
2. [Name of party against whom statement was offered]
heard and understood the statement;
 
3. [Name of party against whom statement was offered]
would, under all the circumstances, naturally have denied the statement if
[he/she/nonbinary pronoun] thought it was not true;
 
AND
 
4. [Name of party against whom statement was offered]
could have denied it but did not.
 
If you decide that
any of these conditions are not true, you must not consider for any purpose
either the statement or [name of party against whom
statement was offered]’s response…” 
Plaintiffs contend that here, “Plaintiff Yessian accused Defendant
Padilla of saying ‘is there anything in your bag because the Police are on
their way.’…The statement was made in the presence of Padilla as per the audio
recording…Padilla did not deny making the statement...” (Mot. at p. 12:20-23.)
In support of this assertion, Plaintiffs appear to cite to the following
portion of Trial Exhibit 1: “Yessian: Is there anything in your bag, because
the police are on their way. I said, fine, have the police on their way,
because there’s--why would there be anything like that, we haven’t bought
anything. Pineda: Uh-huh, right.” (Alaric-Lorenzo Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1 at p. 3:14-19.)
Plaintiffs contend that “[t]he adoptive admission instruction would have
permitted the jury to conclude that the defamatory statements were indeed made
and published by Padilla which would have resulted in victory for Plaintiffs.”
(Mot. at p. 12:24-26.)
In the opposition, Defendants note that “an
adoptive admission…is an exception to the hearsay rule.” (In
re Masters (2019) 7 Cal.5th 1054,
1074.) Civil Code section 1221, which concerns “adoptive admission,” provides
that “[e]vidence of a statement
offered against a party is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if the
statement is one of which the party, with knowledge of the content thereof, has
by words or other conduct manifested his adoption or his belief in its truth.” Defendants
assert that “[h]ere, Yessian’s remarks and Padilla’s alleged lack of response
were presented to the jury without a hearsay objection (Kisob Decl., Ex. A [Tr.
Ex. 1])…A jury instruction on the hearsay exception of adoptive admissions
would have been both irrelevant and confusing to the jury.” (Opp’n at pp.
17:27-18:3.) Plaintiffs do not appear to address this point in their reply. 
            Defendants also assert
that “the Court was correct that the evidence did not support giving the
adoptive admission instruction because Padilla was not ‘afford[ed] fair
opportunity to deny the accusation.’” (Opp’n at p. 18:4-5.) Defendants note
that “[f]or the adoptive admission exception to
apply, it is sufficient that the evidence supports a reasonable inference that
an accusatory statement was made under circumstances affording a fair
opportunity to deny the accusation; whether a defendant’s conduct actually
constituted an adoptive admission becomes a question for the jury to decide.” (Kincaid v.
Kincaid (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 75,
83.) Indeed, Plaintiffs do not appear to provide any evidence
demonstrating that Ms. Padilla was afforded a fair opportunity to deny that she
said “[i]s there anything in your bag, because the police
are on their way.” (Alaric-Lorenzo Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1 at p. 3:14-15.) Moreover, in
the reply, Plaintiffs do not appear to dispute that Ms. Padilla was not
afforded a fair opportunity to deny the accusation.  
Plaintiffs also argue in the motion, “when on 8/06/24, the court
dismissed the defamation claim based on the statement made by William
Pineda…Plaintiffs faced a surprise as Defendants were attacking the claim for
the first time on the eve of trial and Plaintiffs did not have the opportunity
to produce evidence that the statement had been republished during the relevant
statute of limitation period.” (Mot. at p. 12:6-10.) It appears Plaintiffs are
referring to the Court’s August 6, 2024 Order on Defendants’ “Non-Statutory
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings or, in the Alternative, Motion in Limine
to Bar Evidence of Defamation Cause of Action Barred by Statute of
Limitations.” 
As an initial matter, the Court does not find that Plaintiffs have
shown that the August 6, 2024 Order is somehow a “surprise,
which ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 657(3).) As discussed, a motion on the ground of “surprise” “is seldom successful because the moving party to be
entitled to a granting of the motion must make a showing of injury, a showing
of diligence, and a showing that he did not unduly delay seeking redress.” (Fletcher v. Pierceall, supra, 146 Cal.App.2d at p. 866 [internal
quotations omitted].) The Court does not find that Plaintiffs have made any
showing of diligence or that they did not unduly delay in seeking redress. 
To the extent Plaintiffs are arguing that the Court’s August 6, 2024 Order
was an “error of law,” Code of Civil Procedure section
657(7) concerns an “[e]rror in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to
by the party making the application.” Plaintiffs do not articulate how the
August 6, 2024 Order purportedly occurred “at the trial,” or why there was any
purported “error in law” in the August 6, 2024 Order. Plaintiffs do not appear
to discuss the specific findings of the Order. 
Plaintiffs may also be arguing that the August 6, 2024 Order was an “[i]rregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury or
adverse party, or any order of the court or abuse of discretion by which either
party was prevented from having a fair trial.”
(Code Civ. Proc., §
657(1).) Plaintiffs argue that “[a]s
admitted to by Hillary Williams during trial, the Salesforce document…was made
available to a team of CVS’ employees…If just one new person saw it within one
year of the filing of the TAC, then Defendants’ statute of limitations defense
would have been obliterated. Plaintiffs must be allowed to show that Pineda’s
statements[3]
were republished to other CVS’ employees within one year of the filing of the
TAC.” (Mot. at p. 13:3-7.) 
As an initial matter, Plaintiffs do not clearly articulate how this
demonstrates that the Court’s August 6, 2024 Order was an “irregularity in the
proceedings of the court,” or “any order of the
court or abuse of discretion by which either party was prevented from having a
fair trial.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 657(1).) Moreover, Plaintiffs do
not appear to point to any evidence demonstrating that “one new
person saw [the Salesforce document] within one year of the filing of the TAC,”
(Mot. at p. 13:5), Plaintiffs just appear to speculate as to this issue. 
Lastly, Plaintiffs argue that “CACI 1708 deals with Coerced Self-Publication.
This is an instruction which would allow the jury decide [sic] whether or not
Plaintiffs were in these circumstances forced to republish Pineda’s or
Padilla’s statements. The court refused to give the instruction.” (Mot. at p.
15:16-18.) Plaintiffs do not provide any argument or analysis as to why this is
purportedly grounds for a new trial under Code of
Civil Procedure section 657.[4]
Based on the foregoing, the
Court does not find that Plaintiffs have shown that any grounds exist that
would warrant a new trial. The Court denies Plaintiffs’ alternative motion for
a new trial. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing,
Plaintiffs’ motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict or in the
alternative, motion for a new trial is denied.  

Defendants are ordered
to give notice of this order.
 
DATED:  December 6, 2024                    ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


