


[1] The court must
impose a monetary sanction under Code Civ. Proc. §¿2023.030 against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes a motion for a protective order,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust (Code Civ. Proc. §§¿2023.030(a), 2025.420(h)). Here, the court finds
so no substantial justification in filing the motion for a protective order
because (i) Defendant’s own statements do not conclusively show he has no
interest in the real property and (2) the court already ordered Defendant to
provide various tax information. Therefore, the court grants Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanction in the total amount sought as it finds the total
number of hours and hourly rate reasonable (3.5 hours preparing the
opposition and anticipate expending 1.5 hours to attend and oppose the hearing at
an hourly rate of $350.00 per hour). 
 


[2] As this is a legacy
case such that numerous documents are unavailable in the court docket, the
court has gathered relevant filings from Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial
Notice (RJN) filed on 12/18/23. The RJN is granted as it consists of records of
this court. (See Evidence Code section 451(c).)


[3] This date is crucial
for showing Defendant’s waiver of personal jurisdiction. 


[4] Specifically: “1.
All state and federal personal tax returns for the years 2008 through the
present with respect to Scott Lee. 2. All state and federal tax returns for the
years 2008 through present with respect to Rowland Heights Auto Services, Inc.
3. All state and federal tax returns for the years 2008 through the present
with respect to any business entity owned or controlled by Scott Lee. 4. All
other county, state or federal returns for the years 2008 through the present
prepared and/or filed for Scott Lee. 5. All other county, state or federal
returns for the years 2008 through the present prepared and/or filed for any
business entity owned or controlled by Scott Lee. 6. All accounting, source
documentation and work papers concerning any assets of Scott Lee. 7. All
accounting, source documentation and work papers concerning any assets under
the ownership or control of Scott Lee. 8. All accounting, source documentation
and work papers concerning any real property under the ownership or control of
Scott Lee. 9. All accounting, source documentation and work papers concerning
real property known as 3723 Mustang Drive, Ontario, CA 91761.” (Motion pp. 11,
16 of PDF.)
 


[5] (Reply p. 3: 9-13
[“Defendant is surprised by the bankruptcy schedule claiming an interest in the
real property. Defendant avers his bankruptcy counsel likely preemptively
included the residence in the bankruptcy schedule based on counsel's own legal
interpretation as a good faith extension of application of the law, in an
attempt to confirm a Chapter 13 plan of reorganization, as opposed to a Chapter
7. Defendant's counsel cannot speculate, and need not, as it is irrelevant.”].)

 


[6] Both parties appear
to state that the ORAP seeks Tina’s tax returns (See e.g., Opp. p. 7:12-14,
Motion p. 5), but the subpoenas do not seek Tina’s tax returns (see footnote 4,
supra). Even if Plaintiff seeks Tina’s tax information, a judgment
creditor may seek third party discovery in aid of enforcement of a judgment,
regardless of whether the judgment debtor's assets are in the possession of the
third party, or the third party is indebted to the judgment debtor. (See Opp.
p. Yolanda's, Inc. v. Kahl & Goveia Commercial Real Estate (2017) 11
Cal.App.5th 509.) What is more, as observed by Plaintiff, Tina has expressly or
implicitly waived any objections to tax returns as they were not raised during
the debtor’s examination. (Opp. p. 7:12-14.) 

