  Case Number:  21STCV37502    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  57 JACOB’S
DEMURRER TO ZVI’S THIRD AMENDEND COMPAINT 
Jacob’s
demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action for breach of fiduciary duty and Sixth
Cause of Action for constructive fraud in Zvi’s Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”)
is overruled. As to the
claim for breach of fiduciary duty, the TAC sufficiently alleges that, as
majority shareholder of Maxim Lighting, Jacob breached his common law fiduciary
duty to Zvi, as minority shareholder, in multiple ways.  As alleged in the TAC, these breaches of
Jacob’s common law fiduciary duty to Zvi are separate and apart from the allegations supporting the First Cause of Action in the TAC
that Jacob breached the 2013 shareholder agreement that he entered into with
Zvi and Maxim Lighting.  Jacob’s
invocation of the business judgment rule is unavailing.   That is because, in the face of the
allegations in the TAC, the Court cannot determine as a matter of law that the
business judgment rule shields Jacob’s decisions from which Zvi’s claim for
breach of fiduciary duty arises.
As to the
claim for constructive fraud, the elements of that claim are (1) a fiduciary or
confidential relationship that gives rise to a fiduciary duty, (2) a
nondisclosure or omission in breach of that duty, (3) justifiable reliance on
the actions/inactions of the person with the duty, and (4) resulting
damage.  (Tyler v. Children’s Home
Society (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 511, 519-520.)  The allegations in the TAC satisfy the
elements of the existence of a duty and breach of that duty, for the reasons
referenced above in connection with the Fifth Cause of Action.  The element of justifiable reliance is
adequately alleged in Paragraph 195 of the TAC. 
And the resulting damage that is alleged in the TAC is not, contrary to
Jacob’s assertion in the demurrer, too remote or speculative to support the
constructive fraud claim.
JACOB
AND NAOMI’S MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF THE TAC
Jacob and Namoi’s
Motion to Strike the naming of “Doe Defendants” as respondents in the Fifth and
Sixth Causes of Action in the TAC is denied without prejudice.  The premise of the motion to strike is that,
in adding the Doe Defendants as respondents to the Fifth and Sixth Causes of
Action, Zvi exceeded the bounds of the Court’s ruling that sustained Jacob and
Naomi’s demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint with leave to amend.  Specifically, Jacob and Naomi contend that
the Court did not in that ruling authorize Zvi to add the Doe Defendants.  The Court disagrees with Jacob and Naomi’s
interpretation of the Court’s ruling as foreclosing the addition of the Doe
Defendants.  If down the road Zvi
improperly seeks to add a particular defendant as a substitute for a Doe Defendant,
Jacob and Naomi may be able to challenge that maneuver.ZVI’S THREE DISCOVERY MOTIONS The Court’s
tentative rulings on Zvi’s three discovery motions are summarized  below.  The
Court can provide further explanation for the rulings at the hearing if
requested.A.    Motion to Compel Naomi to Provide Further
Responses to Requests for Production of DocumentsIt appears
that the dispute that generated this motion is moot except as to Request Nos.
13-16 and 35-39.Naomi must
provide Code-compliant responses the remaining disputed Requests, including a
verified certification that she has complied according to Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.220 or 2031.230.Naomi must
identify all documents (not the category) with particularity that she contends
have already been produced by Jacob.Zvi’s
request for monetary sanctions is denied because the notice of motion does not
reference monetary sanctions.B.   Motion to Compel
Naomi to Provide Further Responses to Requests for Admission and Form and
Special Interrogatories The motion
is granted as to all disputed RFAs except Nos. 2, 9, and 10.The motion
is granted as to all disputed Form Interrogatories.The motion
is granted as to all disputed Special Interrogatories except No. 31. Zvi’s
request for monetary sanctions is denied because the notice of motion does not
reference monetary sanctions. C.    Motion to Compel Jacob to Provide Further
Responses to Requests for Admission and Form and Special Interrogatories  The motion
is granted as to all disputed RFAs except Nos. 2 and 7.The motion
is granted as to all disputed Form Interrogatories.The motion
is granted as to all disputed Special Interrogatories except Nos. 31 and 34.Zvi’s
request for monetary sanctions is denied because the notice of motion does not
reference monetary sanctions.
 

 
 
 
·       