 Case Number:  23STCV01333    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  29 Defendants’ Motion for Protective Order 
 
Tentative
 
The motion is
denied.
 
Both parties’
requests for sanctions are denied.
 
Background
This matter arises out of an alleged shooting in
a bar in the early morning of August 28, 2022. 
On January 23, 2023, Plaintiffs Cassandra
Catapia and Sergio Velasquez (“Plaintiffs”) filed the Complaint in this action
against Defendants 2471 Whittier, LLC; Ron Cholo Enterprise LLC; LA Pobrecita
Inc; David Kiralla; Alen Aivazian; Ryan Sweeney; and Does 1 through
30.  In the Complaint, Plaintiffs assert three causes of action: (1)
Negligence, (2) Premises Liability, and (3) Negligent Hiring, Training,
Retention and Supervision.
On May 4, 2023, Defendants 2471 Whittier, LLC;
Ron Cholo Enterprise LLC; David Kiralla; Alen Aivazian; and Ryan Sweeney (collectively,
“Defendants”) filed their Answer to the Complaint. 
On May 9, 2023, Defendants filed a
Cross-Complaint against David Erasmo Roman (“Roman”) and Roes 1 through 30.  Roman has not appeared.
On May 18, 2023, the Court, at the request of
Plaintiffs, dismissed all claims in the Complaint against Defendant La
Pobrecita Inc., without prejudice.
On January 22, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their
First Amended Complaint.
On December 5, 2023, Defendants filed
this motion for a protective order. Defendants also seek sanctions.  Plaintiffs filed their opposition on January
8, 2024, and their own request for sanctions.  No reply has been filed.
 
Legal
Standard
 
“When interrogatories have been
propounded, the responding party, and any other party or affected natural
person or organization may promptly move for a protective order. This motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.090, subd. (a).)
“The court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 [of the Civil Discovery Act] against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a
protective order under this section, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.090, subd. (d).)
“When requests for admission have
been made, the responding party may promptly move for a protective order. This
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.080, subd. (a).)
“The court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 [of the Civil Discovery Act] against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion for a
protective order under this section, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.080, subd. (d).)
Discussion
 
Plaintiffs
served, or attempted to serve, Cross-Defendant Roman, with Requests for
Admission (Set One) and Form Interrogatories (Set One) on or about November 24,
2023.  (Macha Decl., ¶¶ 20-21 & Exhs.
E-F.)  Defendants contend that it is
improper for Plaintiffs to propound interrogatories and requests for admission
to Cross-Defendant Roman.  Plaintiffs and
Defendants exchanged meet-and-confer correspondence but were unable to resolve
their dispute.  (Id., ¶¶ 22-25
& Exhs. G-J.) 
 
Defendants
contend that a plaintiff may not serve interrogatories or requests for
admission on a cross-defendant.  This is
an issue that a leading treatise describes as “unclear.”  (2 Weil & Brown, California Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (2023), ¶¶ 8:920, 8:1264.)
 
But
before reaching that issue, the Court first considers a threshold issue:
whether it is proper for Defendants to seek a protective order at all.  
 
Beginning
with the Requests for Admission (“RFAs), Code of Civil Procedure section
2033.080, subdivision (a), states that when RFAs are propounded, “the
responding party” may seek a protective order. 
Under the statute, it is only “the responding party” that may seek a
protective order, not any other party to the litigation.  
 
Here,
the responding party is Cross-Defendant Roman. 
Defendants offer no evidence or argument that there is a principal-agent
relationship between them and Roman or that they are otherwise entitled to act
on Roman’s behalf.  Accordingly, as they
are not “the responding party,” Defendants’ request for a protective order as
to the RFAs is DENIED.
 
Turning
to the Form Interrogatories, Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.090, subdivision
(a), authorizes “the responding party, and any other party or affected natural
person or organization” to seek a protective order.  That’s certainly broader than section
2033.080, subdivision (a).  This broader language
leads to the next question: are Defendants “affected” by the interrogatories,
within the meaning of the statute?
 
Defendants
state that the interrogatories are improper, lack evidentiary value, and are
duplicative of discovery propounded by them. 
But any unfair or unreasonable burden associated with responding to
useless or duplicative discovery requests falls solely on Roman, not on Defendants.  And the answers to the interrogatories are
not admissible against Defendants at trial. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.410.)  On
this record, it does not appear that Defendants will be burdened or otherwise “affected”
in a manner that is sufficient to give them statutory authority to seek a
protective order.
 
Moreover,
even if Defendants could bring a motion for a protective order, the same
leading treatise that both parties cite rejects Defendants’ position as it
relates to interrogatories, stating:
 
[F]or discovery purposes, parties to the
complaint and cross-complaint should be treated as parties to the same “action,”
so as to permit service of interrogatories between [plaintiff] and
[cross-defendant].  Otherwise, to obtain
discovery from each other, depositions would be required.  (Other parties are not prejudiced because
answers to interrogatories are admissible at trial only against the responding
party ….)
 
2 Weil
& Brown, supra, ¶ 8:922.
 
Accordingly,
whether because Defendants are not “affected” parties or on the merits, Defendants’
motion for a protective order as to the interrogatories is DENIED. 
 
Defendants’
request for sanctions is DENIED. 
Plaintiffs have not unsuccessfully opposed a motion for a protective
order.
 
Plaintiffs’
request for sanctions is also DENIED.  Defendants
have unsuccessfully sought a protective order and are subject to sanctions under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.090, subdivision (d), and section
2033.080, subdivision (d).  But the Court
finds that under these circumstances the imposition of sanctions would be
unjust.  Both sides – Plaintiffs and Defendants
– have been engaging in obvious and completely unnecessary gamesmanship, almost
certainly wasting their time (and needlessly causing the Court to expend time
and resources) in a fruitless chase of discovery responses from Cross-Defendant
Roman that, at the end of the day, Plaintiffs will likely not be able to use
against Defendants and Defendants will likely not be able to use against
Plaintiffs.  (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.410,
2033.410.) 
 
Conclusion
 
The Court DENIES Defendants’
motion for a protective order.
 
The
Court DENIES Defendants’ request for sanctions.
 
The Court
DENIES Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions.
 
Moving
parties are ordered to give notice.