 Case Number:  23STCV29697    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Strike
filed by Defendant Noreen Marie Dimster-Denk. 
Tentative
The
motion to strike is granted with leave to amend.
Background
On December 5, 2023, Jose Sanchez
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Noreen Marie Dimster-Denk (“Defendant”)
and Does 1 through 100, asserting a cause of action for motor vehicle
negligence arising out of an automobile accident that occurred on May 11, 2022,
at or near the intersection of Washington Boulevard and Mariposa Avenue in Los
Angeles.
Defendant filed this
motion to strike the punitive damages allegations in Plaintiff’s complaint on
February 6, 2024.  Plaintiff filed an
opposition on February 27, 2024. Defendant filed a reply on March 1, 2024.
Legal Standard
“Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 435, subd. (b)(1).)
A motion to strike challenges “any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading” or “all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) In
ruling on a motion to strike, the court must assume the truth of the properly
pleaded facts in the complaint or other pleading. (Turman v. Turning Point
of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.)
Discussion
The motion to strike is accompanied
by the declaration of Honey Shaw, which satisfies the statutory meet
and confer requirement.  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 435.5, subd. (a).)
Defendant requests the Court strike punitive
damages from Plaintiff’s complaint. Defendant contends that punitive damages cannot
be recovered for negligent conduct, and that although Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant was driving under the influence, Plaintiff’s complaint lacks sufficient
allegations to support the claim for punitive damages.
To recover punitive damages in a tort action, Civil Code section
3294, subdivision (a), requires that a plaintiff prove by clear and convincing
evidence “that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.”
In subdivision (c), the Legislature defines the terms “oppression,” “fraud,”
and “malice” for purposes of recovering punitive damages under section 3294: 
 
(1)  “Malice” means conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.
(2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  
 
(3) “Fraud”
means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material
fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.
 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.
(c)(1)-(3).)  
To plead a claim for punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294,
a plaintiff must allege specific facts showing that the defendant
has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (College Hospital, Inc. v.
Super. Ct. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721; Smith v. Super. Ct. (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.) The basis for punitive damages must be pleaded with
specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any factual assertions are
insufficient. (Ibid.; see also Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643.) A motion to strike may lie where
the facts alleged, if proven, would not support a finding that the defendant
acted with malice, fraud or oppression. (Today IV’s Inc. v. Los Angeles County MTA (2022) 83
Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193; Turman,
supra, 191 Cal.App.4th at p. 63.)  
              
In Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, the
California Supreme Court addressed whether punitive damages may be recovered in
an action based upon allegedly intoxicated driving. As the court, stated, “the
act of operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated may constitute an act of
“malice” under section 3294 if performed under circumstances which disclose a
conscious disregard of the probable dangerous consequences.” (Id. at p.
892.) “One who voluntarily commences, and thereafter continues, to consume
alcoholic beverages to the point of intoxication, knowing from the outset that
he must thereafter operate a motor vehicle demonstrates, in the words of Dean
Prosser, ‘such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests of others
that his conduct may be called wilful or wanton.’” (Id. at p. 899.) But
the court also noted, “Although the circumstances in a particular case may
disclose similar wilful or wanton behavior in other forms, ordinarily, 
routine negligent or even reckless disobedience of traffic laws
would not justify an award of punitive damages.” (Id. at pp. 899-900.)
 
Subsequently, in Dawes v.
Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82, the Court of Appeal, applying and
interpreting Taylor, held that driving while intoxicated does not always
give rise to a claim for punitive damages. (Id. at p. 89.) “[W]e do not
agree that the risk created generally by one who becomes intoxicated and
decides nevertheless to drive a vehicle on the public streets is the same as
the risk created by an intoxicated driver's decision to zigzag in and out of
traffic at 65 miles per hour in a crowded beach recreation area at 1:30 in the
afternoon on a Sunday in June. The risk of injury to others from ordinary
driving while intoxicated is certainly foreseeable, but it is not necessarily
probable.” (Ibid.) 
In addition, in 1987,
approximately eight years after Taylor was decided, the Legislature
amended Civil Code Section 3294 to add the reference to “despicable” conduct as
part of the definition of malice.  This
was “a new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.”  (College Hospital, supra, 8 Cal.4th at
p. 725.)  
“Used in its ordinary sense, the
adjective ‘despicable’ is a powerful term that refers to circumstances that are
‘base,’ ‘vile,’ or ‘contemptible.’ (4 Oxford English Dict. (2d ed. 1989) p.
529.)¿As amended to include this word,¿the statute plainly indicates that
absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more than a
‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs' interests. The additional
component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.”  
(Ibid.; see also CACI 3940
[“Despicable conduct is conduct that is so vile, base, or contemptible that it
would be looked down on and despised by reasonable people.”].)  
Here, although Plaintiff’s
complaint alleges that Defendant was driving under the influence (Complaint, at
p. 5), Plaintiff otherwise alleges that Defendant negligently operated his
vehicle which resulted in Plaintiff’s injuries. (Complaint, at p. 4.) There are
no specific factual allegations in the complaint that would, if proven,
establish that the risk of injury to other was probable or otherwise that the
Defendant acted with oppression, fraud, or malice. For that reason, the Court
GRANTS Defendant’s motion to strike.
As this
is the initial complaint and the defect is one of specificity in pleading, the
Court GRANTS Plaintiff leave to amend. 
Conclusion
The
Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to strike with leave to amend.
The
Court STRIKES the reference to punitive damages in the Complaint on page 3 (items
11(g) and 14(a)(2)) and the entirety of page 5 of the Complaint.
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff leave to amend within 21 days of notice.
The
Court ORDERS Defendant to give notice.