..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22STCV40889
Plaintiff's Name: 
Defendant's Name: Los Angeles Unified School District
People-Names: 
Company-Names: 
Places: Los Angeles, California
Dates: June 10, 2022, August 6, 2024
Events: Motion for judgment on the pleadings, Government Claims, Social Equity Program
Money: 
Intentions: 
Facts: 
Disputes: 
Acts: 
Agreements: 
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Government Code, California Business and Professions Code
Case Citations: County of Orange v. Association of Orange County Deputy Sheriffs, Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp., SKF Farms v. Superior Court, Hahn v. Mirda, Marino v. Los Angeles, Watson v. Los Altos School Dist.
Statutes: Evidence Code section 452, Government Code section 818.4, Government Code section 818.8, Government Code section 822.2, Business and Professions Code section 26249
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements:
* The motion for judgment on the pleadings is DENIED as to the first, second, third, fourth, sixth causes of action.
* The motion is GRANTED without leave to amend as to the fifth cause of action.
* The motion is GRANTED with leave to amend as to the seventh cause of action.
* The Court denied Defendant's request for judicial notice.
* The Court granted Plaintiffs 30 days' leave to amend.
* The Court ordered Plaintiffs to attach a copy of any Government Claims submitted to the City as exhibits to the amended complaint.
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has made a tentative ruling on Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District's motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the First Amended Complaint. The motion is DENIED as to the first, second, third, fourth, and sixth causes of action, but GRANTED without leave to amend as to the fifth cause of action and with leave to amend as to the seventh cause of action. The judge also denied Defendant's request for judicial notice and granted Plaintiffs 30 days' leave to amend. Additionally, the judge ordered Plaintiffs to attach a copy of any Government Claims submitted to the City as exhibits to the amended complaint.
