 Case Number:  23STCV26448    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  1, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV26448




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Compel Responses to Demand for Identification and Inspection of Documents 
(2)
  Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories
(3)
  Compel Responses to Specially Prepared Interrogatories




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant
  Kristopher Marquis  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Marianne
  Leoner



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant Kristopher Marquis (“Defendant”)
moves to compel Plaintiff Marianne Leonor (“Plaintiff”) to serve verified
responses, without objections, to Demand for Identification and Inspection of
Documents, Set One, Specially Prepared Interrogatories, Set One, and Form
Interrogatories, Set One. Defendant seeks monetary sanctions. Counsel for
Plaintiff filed a declaration in opposition. Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Interrogatories
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a
monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
Requests
for Production
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party fails to
serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ. Pro §
2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance or
party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).) 
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for
inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Defendant served Demand for Identification and Inspection of
Documents, Set One, Specially Prepared Interrogatories, Set One, and Form
Interrogatories, Set One, on Plaintiff on February 29, 2024. (Rickett Decl. ¶ 2,
Exh. A.) Defendant then sent a letter to Plaintiff seeking the responses. (Id.
¶ 3.)  Since then, no responses
have been served. (Id. ¶ 5.) 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff’s counsel contends that he mailed the discovery requests
to Plaintiff. No responses were received despite Counsel’s attempts to contact
Plaintiff. Counsel has contacted an investigator to confirm Plaintiff’s address
and is unaware if the discovery was received. However, he contends the mail was
not returned. (Joyner Decl.) As a result, Counsel asks that sanctions not be
awarded. 
 
In reply,
Defendant contends this is the first time he is learning that Plaintiff’s
counsel has lost contact with Plaintiff. Defendant also notes that no motion to
be relieved as counsel has been filed. However, in light of the facts in the opposition,
Defendant asserts he is amenable to seeking sanctions only against Plaintiff. 
 
Regardless of the facts above, it is undisputed that discovery responses
were not served. Therefore, because responses have not been served, the motions
to compel are granted. 
 
Defendant also
requests $572 in monetary sanctions for each of the three motions, against Plaintiff
and her counsel of record. This represents an hourly rate of $133 and the $40
filing fee. (Rickett Decl. ¶ 4.) The Court finds sanctions are warranted
because Plaintiff has failed to respond. However, the amount requested is
excessive given the type of motion and the fact counsel can appear at the
hearing remotely. Therefore, the Court awards sanctions in
the total amount of $718.50 (1.5 hour of attorney time and the filing fee, for
each motion). 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motions to Compel Demand for Identification
and Inspection of Documents, Set One, Specially Prepared Interrogatories, Set
One, and Form Interrogatories, Set One are GRANTED. Plaintiff Marianne Leoner shall
provide verified responses, without objection, within 30 days.
 
The Court further GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff in the reduced amount of $718.50. Said monetary
sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Defendant within 30 days of the date of
this order.
 
Defendant shall
provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 