 Case Number:  21STCV22388    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  1, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV22388




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Deem the Truth of Matters 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Frankie Lane 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant Raman Dlamini 



 
BACKGROUND
 
 Plaintiff Frankie Lane (“Plaintiff”) now moves
for an order to deem admitted Requests for Admission, Set One propounded on Defendant Raman Dlamini (“Defendant”). Plaintiff
seeks monetary sanctions. Defendant opposes and Plaintiff replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Where there has
been no timely response to a request for admission under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.¿ (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)¿ The party who failed to respond waives any
objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party relief from the
waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently served a
substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to respond
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.¿ (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)¿ The court “shall” grant a motion to
deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom
the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on
the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in
substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”¿ (Code of Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (c).)¿ 
 
Where a party
fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve
a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Plaintiff asserts that he served Requests for
Admission, Set One on Defendant on March 21, 2024. (Fantasia Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.)
Responses were due April 23, 2024. (Id. ¶ 3.) 
 
The proof of service of the Request for Admissions, Set
One, shows it was served electronically on Defendant’s counsel on March 21,
2024. (See Fantasia Decl., Exh. A.)
 
In opposition, Defendant’s counsel argues the discovery
went to her spam folder and she did not see it until this motion was filed. (Wolf
Decl. ¶ 3–4.)
 
In reply, Plaintiff asserts that Defendant has sent
discovery responses prior to this hearing and now only seeks monetary
sanctions. Plaintiff questions that the discovery went to Defendant counsel’s
spam folder since previous discovery sets had been sent without issue. 
 
Plaintiff requests $1,095 in monetary
sanctions against Defendant and counsel of record representing an hourly rate
of $450 and the $60.00 filing fee. Even though monetary sanctions are
mandatory, the Court finds there is question of whether Defendant’s counsel
received actual notice of the underlying discovery which contributed to the
failure to respond. As a result, given that Defendant’s counsel declared that
the responses went to her spam folder, the Court declines to award monetary
sanctions. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to deem admitted Request
for Admissions, Set One is DENIED as moot.
 
Plaintiff shall provide
notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.  
 