 Case Number:  21STCV27576    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  1, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV27576




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Deborah Carson




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
filed on May 9, 2024 by Petitioner Deborah Carson (Petitioner) on behalf of
Claimant Chase Carson, age 11.
The Court denies the petition without prejudice for the following reasons: 
 
Petitioner must include the correct Court address in the
petition and proposed orders, in order to provide proper notice.
 
Petitioner must complete item 10c describing the terms of
the settlement.
 
Based on attachment 11b(2), it does not appear that
Petitioner has a claim against Claimant’s settlement. If this is true, then the
response in item 11b(2) must be changed, or more information provided in the
attachment. 
 
Petitioner must provide attachment 17d based on the
response in item 17d. 
 
Petitioner must change the response in item 17e and
provide attachment 17e since she is being represented by the same attorney as
Claimant. 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 