 Case Number:  21STCV19810    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  1, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV19810




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Reopen Discovery and Continue Trial 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Karapet Talasyan 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants
  Jouhaina Simaan and Wadie Simaan 



 
 
MOTION
 
On May 26, 2021, Plaintiff Karapet Talasyan
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Jouhaina Simaan, Wadie
Simaan, and Does 1 to 50 for negligence related to a motor vehicle accident
that occurred on October 31, 2016.
 
Plaintiff
now moves to reopen discovery and continue trial for three months in order to
depose Defendant Jouhaina Simaan and gather more information about her
purported lack of mental capacity. Defendants Jouhaina Simaan and Wadie Simaan
(“Defendants”) oppose. 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
The complaint was filed on May 26, 2021. Trial was
initially set for November 23, 2022.  
¿ 
Defendants’ answer was filed on February 17, 2022.  
¿ 
On September 2, 2022, pursuant to stipulation, the Court
continued trial and all related dates to October 3, 2023. 
 
On September 18, 2023, at the final status conference, the
trial was continued to October 16, 2023. All discovery remained closed. (Min.
Order, 9/18/23.) 
 
On October 2, 2023, pursuant to oral stipulation at the
final status conference, trial was continued to November 3, 2023. 
 
On October 19, 2023, pursuant to oral stipulation at the
final status conference, trial was continued to February 6, 2024. The
discovery/motion cut-off was closed, except for the expert depositions of the
currently designated experts as of that date and depositions of both
defendants. (Min. Order, 10/19/23.) 
 
On
February 6, 2024, pursuant to written stipulation, the trial was continued to
April 30, 2024. The discovery/motion cut-off was closed. 
 
On
April 12, 2024, the Court granted in part Plaintiff’s ex parte application to
re-open discovery and continue trial. Seeing that Plaintiff had filed the
instant motion to reopen discovery, the Court advanced and vacated the current
trial date and set the matter for a trial setting conference on July 1, 2024.
(Min. Order, 4/12/24.) 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to
complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard,
closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date
has been set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd.
(a).)¿ 
¿¿ 
“In exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion,
the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the leave
requested, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) The necessity and
the reasons for the discovery.¿ (2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the
party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the
reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was
not heard earlier.¿ (3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing
the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set,
or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party.¿ (4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date
previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (b)(1)-(4).)¿¿¿ 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (c).)¿¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Liana Ter-Oganesyan, Plaintiff’s counsel, is not
signed, and contains no facts that a meet and confer took place. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff
seeks to reopen discovery and continue trial to three months in order to
conduct more discovery on Defendant Jouhaina Simaan’s (“Jouhaina”) purported
lack of mental capacity. Plaintiff does not specify what additional discovery
is sought and the declaration of counsel is unsigned. 
 
Jouhaina is
alleged to be the driver in the incident. On December 8, 2023, Plaintiff
deposed Jouhaina. However, at the deposition, Plaintiff was informed that
Jouhaina was having difficulty hearing; as a result the deposition did not
proceed. Plaintiff asserts he offered the deposition to be in-person to
accommodate Jouhaina’s hearing. On February 22, 2024, Plaintiff received a
letter by “Resident D.O.” stating that Jouhaina lacked the mental capacity to
be deposed. (Ter-Oganesyan Decl. ¶ 1, Exh. A.) Based on exhibit A, the letter
was sent from Adventist Health and written by “Athenia Barouni.” The letter
states that Jouhaina was evaluated at their clinic and has “multiple comorbid
conditions that would prevent her from completing her deposition.” It also
states that Jouhaina has mild dementia and cognitive decline, cannot answer
questions in a linear fashion, and does not know the year or month. (Ibid.)
This letter is not a signed declaration. 
 
Plaintiff
is skeptical that Jouhaina lacks capacity since this was not disclosed prior to
February 2024. On April 8, 2024, Defendants also sent a letter stating that
Jouhaina would also be unable to testify at trial since her condition had not
improved. (Id., Exh. B.) 
 
In
opposition, Defendants do not dispute that they are contending Jouhaina lacks
capacity. However, they argue the Court should deny this motion since Plaintiff
failed to meet and confer. Also, Defendants contend that no relevant evidence
is likely to come from Jouhaina’s deposition, given her mental state.
Defendants also assert they have withdrawn Jouhaina as a trial witness. 
 
In addition
to failing to set forth efforts to meet and confer in counsel’s unsigned
declaration, Plaintiff does not explain what specific discovery is sought and
the necessity and reasons for the discovery. In addition, Plaintiff does not
explain the lack of any follow up after the December 8, 2023 deposition or
otherwise set forth diligence by Plaintiff to complete Defendant’s deposition
before the deadline.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion to reopen discovery is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 