 Case Number:  23STCV18205    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are encouraged to meet and confer
concerning this tentative ruling to determine if a resolution may be
reached.  If the parties are unable to
reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the
party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to
submit.  The email shall include the case
number, date and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if
applicable), and the identity of the party submitting on this tentative
ruling.  If the Court does not receive an
email indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there
are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar
or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  1, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV18205




MOTIONS:  


(1)  
  Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories,
  Set One 
(2)  
  Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production
  of Documents, Set One




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Shwe Shyan Hwee  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority   



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On
August 1, 2023, Plaintiff Shwe Shyan Hwee (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority (“Defendant”) for injuries related to an alleged attack on a metro
train that occurred on May 17, 2023.
 
On October 16, 2023, Plaintiff served Special Interrogatories, Set One
and Request for Production of Documents, Set One, on Defendant. Extensions were
granted until January 16, 2024. On January 16, 2024, Defendant served responses
with mostly objections. The parties met and conferred. On April 11, 2024, an
informal discovery conference (“IDC”) was held with a different judicial
officer. Plaintiff contends that Defendant agreed to supplement its responses
by May 10, 2024, and allow a motion to compel further deadline for June 4,
2024. (Hill Decl. ¶ 12–13.) Defendant did not serve responses by the deadline
and asked for an extension to May 31, 2024. Plaintiff did not agree to the
extension. However, by May 31, 2024, Defendant had not served any responses. (Id.
¶ 15.) 
 
On June 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motions to compel further
responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, numbers 3–6, 11–15, 17, 19–26, and
Request for Production of Documents, Set One, numbers 1–6, 8–20.[1] Plaintiff
also seeks monetary sanctions against Defendant and counsel.
 
Defendant opposes this motion and asserts it “intends to provide
supplemental responsive information,” but does not indicate that it has served
supplemental responses since the filing of this motion. (Opp., 6.) Plaintiff replies
and does not assert that supplemental responses have been received. 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
As stated above, on April 11, 2024, the parties appeared for a
scheduled IDC pursuant to the Court’s Eighth Amended Standing Order. Therefore,
the IDC requirement has been met. (Min. Order, 4/11/24.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
I. Compel
Further Response to Special Interrogatories
 
            A.
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.300(a) provides that
“on receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move
for an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that
any of the following apply:¿ 
¿ 
(1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or
incomplete.¿ 
(2) An
exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate.¿ 
(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or
too general.”¿ 
 
The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(b)(1).) “Unless notice of this motion
is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date to
which the propounding party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(c).)¿¿ 
¿ 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300(d).)¿¿¿
 
“If the
responding party does not have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully
to an interrogatory, that party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and
good faith effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons
or organizations, except where the information is equally available to the
propounding party.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.220(c).) 
 
B.
Discussion
 
Here,
Plaintiff seeks to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set
One, numbers 3–6, 11–15, 17, 19–26. 
 
Number 3
asks Defendant to identify a person most knowledgeable about the incident. The
Court finds Defendant’s objections to be without merit. Defendant also
responded that it has yet to determine a PMK for this incident, and that
investigations are continuing. Therefore, the response appears to comply with
section 2030.220. Accordingly, the motion to compel further is denied.
Nonetheless, as Defendant has agreed to supplement this response, Defendant
shall provide a supplemental substantive response within 30 days.
 
Numbers 4, 5,
and 6 seek information about “any and all policies, procedures, and
practices the Metro had in place … to ensure the safety of its passengers,” to
provide a person most knowledgeable, and to describe “any changes the Metro
made to its policies, procedures, or practices regarding the safety of its
passengers…” The Court agrees with Defendant that these requests are too broad and
therefore cover a wide range of policies, procedures, and practices regarding
“safety” that would not be reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence. Accordingly, the motion to compel further is denied.
 
Number 11 asks:
“For each Passenger Incident that occurred on the A Line of the Metro,
including its trains and stations, from January 1, 2023, to May 17, 2023,
state: 1) the date; 2) the name(s) of the person(s) involved; 3) a concise
summary of the circumstances and events.” 
 
Because this
interrogatory contains subparts, the motion to compel further is denied. (See
Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.060(f) [“No specially prepared interrogatory shall
contain subparts, or a compound, conjunctive, or disjunctive question.”].) In
addition, the Court agrees with Defendant that this request is too broad and
therefore covers potentially a number of incidents that would not be reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Accordingly, the
motion to compel further is denied.
 
Numbers 12–14
ask to state the number of Passenger Incidents that occurred on various metro
lines and stations, “including its trains and stations, each year from 2018
through 2023.”
 
Defendant objects
that these are compound. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.060(f).) The Court agrees. In
addition, the Court agrees with Defendant that this request is too broad and
therefore covers a number of incidents that would not be reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Therefore, the motion to
compel further is denied. 
 
Numbers 15
asks: “Was any Metro station the site of more Passenger Incidents than the
Artesia Station from 2018 to 2023?”
 
Defendant objects
that the interrogatory is burdensome or oppressive. Defendant argues its rail
system consists of 101 stations and six rail lines. Plaintiff is asking
Defendant to go through six years of records on a station by station basis. The
Court agrees with Defendant that the time period sought is overbroad and
therefore not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. Therefore, the motion to compel further is denied.
 
Number 17
asks: “Was any Metro station the site of more Passenger Incidents than Compton
Station from 2018 to 2023?”
 
Defendant objects
that the interrogatory is burdensome or oppressive. Defendant argues its rail
system consists of 101 stations and six rail lines. Plaintiff is asking
Defendant to go through six years of records on a station by station basis. The
Court agrees with Defendant that the time period sought is overbroad and
therefore not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. Therefore, the motion to compel further is denied.
 
Number 19
asks: “For each “Employee Incident” that occurred on the A Line of the Metro,
including its trains and stations, from January 1, 2023, to May 17, 2023,
state: 1) the date; 2) the name(s) of the person(s) involved; 3) a concise
summary of the circumstances and events.”
 
Because this
contains subparts, the motion to compel further is denied. (See Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2030.060(f).) In addition, the Court agrees that the request is too broad and
therefore not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.
 
Number 20
asks: “State the number of Employee Incidents that occurred on the A Line of
the Metro (f/k/a the Blue Line), including its trains and stations, each year
from 2018 through 2023.”
 
Number 21
asks: “State the number of Employee Incidents that occurred at the Artesia
Station of the A Line of the Metro, including its trains and stations, each
year from 2018 through 2023.” 
 
Number 22 asks:
“State the number of Employee Incidents that occurred at Compton Station of the
A Line of the Metro, including its trains and stations, each year from 2018
through 2023.” 
 
Defendant objects
that these are compound and overbroad, among other things. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.060(f).) The Court agrees. Therefore, the motion to compel further is
denied. 
 
Number 23 asks:
“Was any Metro station the site of more Employee Incidents than the Artesia
Station from 2018 to 2023?”
 
Number 25
asks: “Was any Metro station the site of more Employee Incidents than Compton
Station from 2018 to 2023?”
 
The Court agrees
with Defendant that the requests are overbroad. Therefore, the motion to compel
further is denied. Because numbers 23 and 25 are denied, numbers 24 and 26,
which relies on those responses, are also denied.  
 
Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions is denied.
 
II. Compel
Further Responses to Request for Production, Requests for Admissions, and Form
Interrogatories
 
Plaintiff
also moves to compel further responses to Request for Production of Documents,
Set One, numbers 1–6, 8–20. The Court notes that these disputed requests are
numerous and appear to suffer from similar deficiencies as the special
interrogatories. However, because the case was transferred and the parties have
not engaged in an informal discovery conference with this court, the parties
are ordered to meet and confer and attempt to resolve their disputes
informally, including potentially by agreeing to requests narrowed in scope and
time. To the extent that an informal resolution is not reached, the parties are
ordered to prepare a joint status report, listing the specific discovery
request, and any supplemental information regarding each party’s position that
is not already provided in each separate statement.
 
As
for the motions to compel further responses to Requests for Admissions and Form
Interrogatories, the parties are similarly ordered to meet and confer and the
provide any remaining disputes in the joint status report. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s motion to compel further
responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One.  
 
Counsel
are ordered to appear in person for an informal discovery conference on July
30, 2024 at 11:00 a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
The
joint status report must be filed 5 days in advance of the IDC, with a courtesy
copy delivered to the Court by 4:00 p.m.
 
The
hearing on the Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for Production is
continued to August 20, 2024 at 1:30 p.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street
Courthouse. The hearings on the Motions to Compel Further Responses to Form
Interrogatories and Requests for Admissions are advanced and continued to
August 20, 2024 at 1:30 p.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse.
 
Plaintiff
to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 


