  Case Number:  23STCV10802    Hearing Date:   April 29, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April
29, 2024                                    TRIAL
DATE:  June 10, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Leland Regent Properties v. La Brea AP, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV10802
 





















 
CUSTOM
DESIGN FUR CORPORATION DBA LAAPARTMENTS.BIZ’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR,
IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION AGAINST LELAND REGENT PROPERTIES AND
WILSHIRE ESCROW COMPANY [7548]
 
LELAND
REGENT PROPERTIES’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT 
AS
TO ITS COMPLAINT [5966]
 
CROSS-DEFENDANT
LELAND REGENT PROPERTIES’ MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT AS TO CDF’S
CROSS-COMPLAINT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION [7400]



 
 
I.          FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
Leland Regent Properties (“Leland”) is the owner of the real
property commonly known as 6731 Leland Way, Los Angeles, California, 90028 (the
“Property”).   On or about March 8, 2023,
Leland entered into a written Purchase Agreement with Custom Design Fur
Corporation dba LAApartments.Biz (“CDF”) for the Property.  Pursuant to the Purchase Agreement, CDF, by
way of an advance made on its behalf by its sister company LA Brea AP, LLC,
deposited money into escrow to be applied to the purchase price.  Wilshire Escrow Company (“Wilshire Escrow”)
was the escrow holder.  However, the sale
was not completed.  CDF did not approve
certain contingency items under the Purchase Agreement within the specified
time.  Leland did not approve the return
of CDF’s deposit which is still being held by Wilshire Escrow.  
 
On May 12, 2023, Leland filed its Complaint against CDF
(erroneously sued as La Brea AP, LLC) for Breach of Contract. 
 
On June 14, 2023, CDF filed its Cross-Complaint against
Leland and Wilshire Escrow for Breach of Contract and Damages to Recover Monies
Held in Escrow.
 
Before the court are three motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication.  
 
On January 29, 2024, CDF filed its Motion for Summary
Judgment or, In the Alternative, Summary Adjudication Against Leland and
Wilshire Escrow. 
 
            On February
13, 2024, Leland filed two motions: (1) Motion for Summary Judgment As To Its
Complaint, and (2) Motion for Summary Judgment As To CDF’s Cross-Complaint.
 
The motions are fully briefed.  The issue central to these motions raises a
pure question of law.  The court addresses
the motions together and rules as follows.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
When reviewing a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”¿ (Hinesley v. Oakshade
Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)¿¿A motion for summary
judgment must be granted “if all the papers submitted show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
a judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)   
“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving party to make
a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.”¿ (Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519 (Scalf).)¿
A defendant seeking summary judgment “bears the burden of persuasion that there
is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th
826, 850 (Aguilar).)  A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿ A
moving defendant need not conclusively negate an element of plaintiff’s cause
of action.¿ (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿¿ 
To meet this burden of showing a cause of action cannot be
established, a defendant must show not only “that the plaintiff does not
possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain needed evidence.”¿ (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p.
854.)¿ It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the absence of
evidence.¿ (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891 (Gaggero).)¿
The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿ (Ibid.)¿ The supporting
evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿ (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.)¿¿ 
“Once the defendant … has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) ¿The
plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to the cause of action.” ¿(Ibid.)¿ A plaintiff opposing summary
judgment defeats the motion by showing one or more triable issues of material
fact exist as to the challenged element. 
(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 849.)  “If the plaintiff
cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”  (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical
Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)¿¿ 
The court must “liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom.”¿ (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028,
1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.)¿ “On a summary
judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the
opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿ While
viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its
primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.¿
[Citation.]¿ Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the
issues as a matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues
must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿ “Put another way, have defendants conclusively negated
a necessary element of the [plaintiff’s] case or demonstrated that under no
hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that requires the process of
trial?”¿ (Jeld-Wen, Inc. v. Superior Court (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 853,
860, internal citation omitted.) ¿Further, “the trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more
likely true.¿ [Citation.]¿ Nor may the trial court grant summary judgment based
on the court’s evaluation of credibility.¿ [Citation.]” ¿(Id. at p. 840;
see also Weiss v. People ex rel.¿Department of Transportation (2020) 9
Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or summary
adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the light
most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences in
favor of that party”].)¿¿ 
III.       JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
            CDF, in support of its Motion for Summary Judgment, requests
judicial notice of the following documents: 
 
1.     
A certified copy of the Fictitious
Business Name Statement filed by CDF with the Los Angeles County Recorder’s
Office on March 10, 2022 (Request for Judicial Notice (RJN) 1);
2.     
Leland’s Complaint filed in this
action;
3.     
CDF’s Cross-Complaint filed in this
action, including its exhibits;
4.     
Order on Stipulation, entered by
this court on October 3, 2023 (RJN 4).
 
CDF’s request as to RJN 1 and 4 is GRANTED.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (c), (d)(1).)  As the court does not rely on Leland’s
Complaint or CDF’s Cross-Complaint in ruling on CDF’s Motion for Summary
Judgment, the court declines to rule on the requests for judicial notice as to
those documents.
 
Leland, in support of its Motions for Summary Judgment and
its opposition to CDF’s Motion for Summary Judgment, requests judicial notice of
the following four articles published on the Internet on March 10, 2023:
 
1.     
CNBC
(https://www.cnbc.com/2023/03/10/silicon-valley-bank-is-shut-down-byregulators-fdic-to-protect-insured-deposits.html);

2.     
CNN
(https://www.cnn.com/2023/03/10/investing/svb-bank/index.html); 
3.     
Reuters
(https://www.reuters.com/business/finance/california-regulator-shuts-siliconvalley-bank-2023-03-10/);

4.     
The New York Times
(https://www.nytimes.com/2023/03/10/technology/siliconvalley-bank-fallout.html).
 
As the court does not rely on any of these documents, the
court declines to rule on Leland’s requests.
 
IV.       EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS 
 
            1.  Leland’s
Objections
 
            Leland
asserts fourteen (14) objections to the Declaration of Avi Schlanger and one
(1) objection to CDF’s requests for judicial notice of its
Cross-Complaint.  
 
            Objections Nos.
1, 4, 9, 10, 11, 12, 14 are SUSTAINED.
 
            Objections Nos.
2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 13 are OVERRULED. 
 
Objection No. 15 to CDF’s Request for Judicial Notice is Moot.  (See discussion re CDF’s Request for Judicial
Notice.)
 
CDF’s Objections
            
CDF asserts sixteen (16) objections to Leland’s evidence supporting
Leland’s Motion for Summary Judgment.   
 
            Objection
Nos. 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 9 are OVERRULED. 
 
            Objection
Nos. 4, 7, 8, 10, 11, 12 are SUSTAINED. 
 
            Objection
Nos. 13-16: Moot.  (See discussion re
Leland’s Request for Judicial Notice.)
 
 
V.        DISCUSSION
 
            1. Undisputed
Material Facts  
 
            The
property at the center of this dispute is 6731 Leland Way, Los Angeles
California 90028.  (CDF’s Separate
Statement of Undisputed Material Facts (UMF) 1.)  Leland was the owner of the Property at the
relevant time period.  (UMF 3.)  On March 8, 2023, Leland and CDF entered into
a written Purchase Agreement in which CDF agreed to buy and Leland agreed to
sell the Property.  (UMF 4.)  On the same day, Leland made a counteroffer to
CDF which was signed and incorporated into the Purchase Agreement.  (UMF 5.) 
CDF does business under a fictitious name as LAApartments.Biz.  CDF used this fictitious name in the Purchase
Agreement and the Counter Offer.  (UMF
6.)  The Purchase Agreement and Counter Offer
are the governing documents in this action. 
(UMF 7.)  Pursuant to the Purchase
Agreement, CDF caused its sister company, La Brea AP, LLC, to deposit $330,000
with Wilshire Escrow.  (UMF 8.)  The Purchase Agreement sets forth contingencies
at Sections 5, 8.1, 8.2, and 8.3.  (UMF
9.)  The parties simultaneously executed
a Counter Offer which states, “Buyer shall remove all contingencies by 5:00 PM
EST, Friday, March 10, 2023.”  (UMF 13.)  The Counter Offer also states “The foregoing
terms and conditions supersede and replace any inconsistent provisions in the
referenced Purchase Agreement. All other terms and conditions of said Purchase
Agreement (including all terms and conditions related to Agent’s commission)
shall remain in full force and effect.” 
(UMF 14.)  CDF did not remove the
contingencies.  (UMF 15.)
 
            2.  Contentions
 
            CDF argues that
Section 4 merely shortened the time in which CDF was required to remove the
contingencies.  The decision not to
remove the contingencies rendered the Purchase Agreement and Counter Offer null
and void as provided in Sections 8.1, 8.2, and 8.3 of the Purchase Agreement.  Because the Purchase Agreement and Counter Offer
are null and void, Leland was required to return CDF’s deposit of $330,000.  Leland breached the Purchase Agreement and
Counter Offer by failing to authorize the return of CDF’s deposit.
 
            Leland, on
the other hand, argues that Section 4 required CDF to remove contingencies by a
date and time certain.  CDF’s failure to
remove the contingencies triggered an automatic removal of the contingencies,
thus requiring CDF to increase the deposit to $700,000 as provided by Section 2
of the Counter Pffer.  However, because
CDF did not increase the deposit, CDF defaulted on the Purchase Agreement
thereby entitling Leland to keep CDF’s deposit of $330,000 as liquidated
damages.  
 
            3.  Legal Principles
 
“The rules governing the role of the court in interpreting a
written instrument are well established. The interpretation of a contract is a
judicial function.  In engaging in this
function, the trial court gives effect to the mutual intention of the parties
as it existed at the time the contract was executed.  Ordinarily, the objective intent of the
contracting parties is a legal question determined solely by reference to the
contract’s terms.” (Brown v. Goldstein (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th 418, 432 (Brown)
(cleaned up); accord, State of California v. Continental Ins. Co.
(2012) 55 Cal.4th 186, 195; Wolf v. Walt Disney Pictures & Television
(2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 1107, 1125-1126 (Wolf).)  “Extrinsic evidence is admissible, however, to
interpret an agreement when a material term is ambiguous.” (Brown, at p.
432; accord, Wolf, at p. 1126.)  Parol
evidence is not admissible when the contract is clear or unambiguous, and it
cannot be used to create an ambiguity.  (Bernard
v. State Farm Mutual Automobile Ins. Co. (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 304,
308–309.)
 
4.  Contractual
Language
 
            Here, the
parties agree the language of the Counter Offer is not ambiguous.  The court likewise agrees the language is not
ambiguous and therefore does not consider any extrinsic evidence to interpret
the contract.  Nonetheless, the parties advance
conflicting interpretations of the Purchase Agreement and Counter Offer. The
court is called upon to interpret the terms of the Purchase Agreement and
Counter Offer.  To resolve the dispute,
the court begins by setting forth the contractual language at issue.  
 
            Purchase
Agreement 
 
            The Purchase Agreement provides, in relevant part[1]:
 
LAApartments.biz
and/or Assignee shall be hereafter referred to as “Buyer”. 
LELAND
REGENT PROPERTIES, a California limited Partnership shall be hereafter referred
to as “Seller”. 
 
Buyer
shall deliver to Escrow Holder as defined in Paragraph 3 or to Marcus &
Millichap Real Estate Investment Services (“Agent”), as agent for Seller, the
sum of three hundred thirty thousand dollars ($330,000) in the form of wire
transfer.  This sum is a deposit (“Deposit”)
to be applied to the purchase price of that certain real property (referred to
as the “Property”) located in the City of Los Angeles, County of Los Angeles,
State of California, and more particularly described as follows: 
 
The
land and all improvements at 
6731
Leland Way 
Los
Angeles, CA 90028 
APN:
5547-022-008
 
TERMS
AND CONDITIONS
 
[¶]
 
5.
TITLE: Within three (3) calendar days after the Effective Date of this
Agreement, Seller shall procure and cause to be delivered to Buyer a
preliminary title report with copies of all exceptions issued by Old Republic
Title Company (the “Title Company”) on the Property. Within seven (7) calendar
days following the Effective Date, Buyer shall either approve in writing the
exceptions contained in said title report or specify in writing any exceptions
to which Buyer reasonably objects. If Buyer objects to any exceptions, Seller
shall, within nine (9) calendar days following the Effective Date, deliver to
Buyer written notice that either (i) Seller will, at Seller’s expense, remove
the exception(s) to which Buyer has objected before the Closing Date or (ii)
Seller is unwilling or unable to eliminate said exception(s). If Seller fails
to so notify Buyer or is unwilling or unable to remove any such exception by
the Closing Date, Buyer shall elect in writing, within eleven (11) calendar
days from the Effective Date to either terminate this Agreement and receive
back the entire Deposit (in which event Buyer and Seller shall have no further
obligations under this Agreement); or to purchase the Property subject to such
exception(s). Seller shall convey by grant deed to Buyer (or to such other
person or entity as Buyer may specify) marketable fee title subject only to the
exceptions approved by Buyer in accordance with this Agreement. Title shall be
insured by a standard California Land Title Association owner's policy of title
insurance issued by the Title Company in the amount of the purchase price with
premium paid by Seller.
 
[¶]
 
8.
        INSPECTION CONTINGENCIES: 
 
8a.
      BOOKS AND RECORDS
8.1)
     BOOKS AND RECORDS: Seller agrees to
provide Buyer with items a, b, d, e, f, g, h, i, j, k listed below within three
(3) calendar days following the Effective Date:[2]

 
[items
a, b, c, d, e, f, g, h, i, j, k omitted]
 
Buyer
shall acknowledge receipt of these items in writing.  Buyer shall have seven (7) calendar days
following the Effective Date to review and approve in writing each of these
items.  If Buyer fails to approve
these items within the specified time, this Agreement shall be rendered null
and void, Buyer’s entire deposit shall be returned, and Buyer and Seller shall
have no further obligations hereunder.
 
8b.       PHYSICAL
INSPECTION
8.2)
     PHYSICAL INSPECTION: Buyer shall have
seven (7) calendar days following the Effective Date to inspect the physical
condition of the Property, including, but not limited to the soil conditions
and the presence or absence of lead-based paint, mold and other hazardous
materials on or about the Property, and to notify the Seller in writing that
Buyer approves same. If Buyer fails to approve the physical condition of
the Property within the specified time, this Agreement shall be null and void
and Escrow Holder is hereby authorized to return Buyer's entire deposit. Buyer
and Seller shall have no further obligations hereunder.
 
8c.       STATE
AND LOCAL LAWS
8.3)      STATE AND LOCAL LAWS:  Buyer shall have seven ( 7 ) calendar days
following the Effective Date to investigate State and local laws to determine
whether the Property must be brought into compliance with minimum energy
conservation or safety standards or similar retrofit requirements as a
condition of sale or transfer and the cost thereof, and to notify Seller that
Buyer approves same. If Buyer fails to approve these requirements, if
any, within the specified time, this Agreement shall be rendered null and void,
Buyer’s entire Deposit shall be returned, and Buyer and Seller shall have no
further obligations hereunder.
 
[¶]
 
9)
DEPOSIT INCREASE: N/A.
 
10)  DEPOSIT TRANSFER:  Buyer’s Deposit shall remain in escrow, until
removal of the inspection contingencies set forth in paragraph(s) 5, 8.1, 8.2,
8.3 hereof.  Upon removal of said
contingencies, Buyer’s Deposit shall be delivered to escrow by Agent (it same
has been held in trust by Agent); a grant deed duly executed by Seller,
sufficient to convey title to Buyer, shall be delivered to escrow by Seller;
and the Escrow Holder shall release immediately from escrow and deliver to
Seller Buyer’s entire Deposit (including increases, if any). Seller shall hold
Buyer’s Deposit subject to the remaining terms and conditions of this
Agreement. Buyer acknowledges and agrees that, in the event Buyer
defaults on this Agreement after removal of contingencies, Buyer’s Deposit is
non-refundable and is forfeited to Seller. If the Property is made
unmarketable by Seller or Seller defaults on this Agreement, the Deposit must
immediately be returned to Buyer and the deed shall be returned to Seller.[3]
 
 
(Bold italics added.) 
 
            Counter
Offer 
 
            The Counter Offer provides as follows:
 
The
undersigned Seller, LELAND REGENT PROPERTIES, a California limited partnership,
makes the following Counter Offer to the offer contained in the Purchase
Agreement executed by LAApartments.biz and/or Assignee as buyer on February 28,
2023, relating to that certain real property (the “Property”) located at 6731
Leland Way, Los Angeles, CA 90028.
            
TERMS
AND CONDITIONS 
 
Seller
agrees to sell the Property to Buyer on the terms and conditions set forth in
the aforementioned Purchase Agreement (including addenda, if any) with the
following exceptions, additions and modifications: 
 
1.     
Purchase Price to be eleven million
two hundred thousand dollars ($11,200,000). 
2.     
DEPOSIT INCREASE: Upon removal of
the inspection contingencies set forth in paragraph(s) 5, 8.1, 8.2, 8.3 hereof,
Buyer shall deposit in Escrow sufficient funds to increase the Deposit to seven
hundred thousand dollars ($700,000). The entire Deposit shall be credited to
the purchase price at the close of escrow unless otherwise provided herein. 
3.     
Seller makes no representations nor
warranties with regards to the Property. Buyer shall conduct Buyer’s own due
diligence. 
4.     
Buyer shall
remove all contingencies by 5:00 PM EST, Friday, March 10, 2023. 
5.     
Escrow Company shall be Wilshire
Escrow (Eric Shewfelt). Title Company shall be Provident Title (Steve Poss). 
6.     
There shall be no Arbitration
Clause. Paragraph 32 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby deleted.
 
The
foregoing terms and conditions supersede and replace any inconsistent
provisions in the referenced Purchase Agreement. All other terms and
conditions of said Purchase Agreement (including all terms and conditions
related to Agent’s commission) shall remain in full force and effect. The
Purchase Agreement (including any previous Counter Offers or Amendments) and
this Counter Offer, taken together, shall constitute the entire agreement of
the parties. If this Counter Offer is not accepted in writing by Buyer
and an executed copy delivered to Seller, or Rick Raymundo/Matthew Maun, Seller’s
authorized agent, on or before Wednesday, March 8, 2023, this Counter Offer
shall be null and void, Buyer’s entire deposit shall be returned, and neither
Seller nor Buyer shall have any further rights or obligations hereunder. The
date on which Buyer accepts this Counter Offer in writing shall be the “effective
date” of the Purchase Agreement between Seller and Buyer. Seller hereby
acknowledges receipt of an executed copy of this Counter Offer. 
 
            5.  Application
 
            The dispute
boils down to the meaning of Section 4 of the Counter Offer.  After reviewing the language in the Purchase
Agreement and Counter Offer, the court agrees with CDF’s interpretation of the
contract.  The Purchase Agreement
originally set the deadline for CDF to remove all contingencies (Sections 5,
8.1, 8.2, and 8.3) within seven calendar days of the effective date of the
Purchase Agreement.  Section 4 of the Counter
Offer shortened that deadline to two days.  CDF’s decision not to remove the contingencies
in the specified time rendered the Purchase Agreement and Counter Offer null
and void.  In relevant part, Sections
8.1, 8.2, and 8.3 of the Purchase Agreement each provide, “If Buyer [CDF] fails
to approve these requirements, if any, within the specified time, this
Agreement shall be rendered null and void, Buyer’s entire Deposit shall be
returned, and Buyer and Seller shall have no further obligations hereunder.”  There is no provision in the Counter Offer which
indicates the “null and void” language in Sections 8.1, 8.2 and 8.3 was superseded
or replaced. 
 
            Leland
argues the “null and void” clauses are inconsistent with Counter Offer.  Focusing on the term “shall” in Section 4 of
the Counter Offer, Leland argues that Section 4 mandated CDF to actively remove
the contingencies, and CDF’s failure to do so triggered an automatic removal of
the contingencies.[4]  Such an interpretation, however, is
foreclosed by the terms of the Counter Offer itself.  First off, the Counter Offer does not include
“automatic” removal language in the event CDF did not actively remove the
contingencies in the specified time. 
Moreover, Section 2 of the Counter Offer contemplates an affirmative act
of removal.  The parties agree that CDF
did not remove the contingencies.  Given
the absence of language in the Counter Offer indicating what would occur if CDF
did not remove the contingencies, the court finds that the “null and void”
language in Sections 8.1, 8.2, and 8.3 are valid and apply.  The Purchase Agreement and Counter Offer were
rendered null and void.  CDF (and Leland)
were thus released from their obligations under the agreements.  Because the Purchase Agreement and Counter
Offer are null and void, CDF could not have defaulted on the Purchase Agreement
by failing to increase the deposit to the $700,000, among other things.  CDF is entitled to the return of its deposit
of $330,000.
 
            Having
found CDF is entitled to a return of the deposit as a matter of law, the court
further finds CDF has carried its burden of showing there are no triable issues
of material fact as to its breach of contract cause of action against
Leland.  “The elements of a breach of
contract claim are that a contract was formed; that the plaintiff did
everything required by the contract; that the defendant did not do something
required by the contract; and that the plaintiff was harmed as a result.”  (CSAA Ins. Exch. v. Hodroj (2021) 72
Cal.App.5th 272, 276; CACI No. 303.) 
Here, there is no dispute that CDF and Leland entered into a
contract.  And, as discussed, CDF did
everything required by the contract and is thus entitled to a return of its
deposit.  It is also undisputed that
Leland has not authorized the return of CDF’s deposit.  CDF has incurred damages in the amount of the
deposit ($330,000), plus costs, fees, and expenses associated with this
action.  (Shlanger Decl., ¶ 21.)
 
            Miscellaneous
Issues
 
            CDF pursues
a second cause of action for Damages to Recover Monies Held in Escrow.  CDF’s second cause of action is brought against
Wilshire Escrow alone.  Leland argues
CDF’s motion should be denied as to the second cause of action because it is
derivative of the first cause of action for breach of contract. CDF argues it
is enforcing a right codified at Civil Code section 3380.  
 
            The court
finds CDF’s second cause of action is not wholly derivative of its breach of
contract claim.  Although admittedly
intertwined, the second cause of action is asserted against Wilshire Escrow
only.  And with good reason.  Civil Code section 3380 states, “Any person
having the possession or control of a particular article of personal property,
of which he is not the owner, may be compelled specifically to deliver it to
the person entitled to its immediate possession.”  Here, Wilshire Escrow, as the escrow holder,
holds CDF’s deposit.  Wilshire Escrow,
and not Leland, may be compelled specifically to return the deposit.  
 
            The court
notes, however, that CDF’s motion as to the second cause of action may be
moot.  On October 3, 2023, the parties
entered into a stipulation which, in relevant part, provides as follows:
 
“Despite
allegations contained in the Complaint and the CDF Cross-Complaint, the parties
collectively acknowledge that Wilshire Escrow's involvement in the underlying
dispute is that of an impartial party who has received conflicting instructions
from Leland and CDF. Wilshire Escrow is indifferent as to who is entitled to
the Disputed Funds. 
 
Leland
and CDF agree that: (i) except as expressly provided herein, neither Leland nor
CDF will seek any affirmative relief from Wilshire Escrow other than relief
concerning Wilshire Escrow’s failure to comply with that Order entered pursuant
to this Stipulation; and (ii) that Wilshire Escrow need not participate in the
Action but consents to the jurisdiction of the Court and agrees to distribute
the Disputed Funds in accordance with any final order or judgment entered in
the Action or mutual written agreement between Leland and CDF.”
 
(Stipulation
Re Wilshire Escrow Company’s Involvement in Litigation, ¶¶ G and H.)
 
            Based on
the Stipulation, the court is inclined to deny the motion as moot because the
issue has been resolved by stipulation. The court will hear from the parties. 
            
VI.       CONCLUSION 
 
Based on the foregoing, the court GRANTS CDF’s Motion for
Summary Judgment, or in the alternative Summary Adjudication as to CDF’s breach
of contract claim. The court DENIES  Leland’s Motions for Summary Judgment.  
 
The court will hear from the parties regarding CDF’s second
cause of action given the parties’ Stipulation entered on October 3, 2023.
  
 
Dated:   April 29, 2024                                   




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the Superior Court


 




 


