 Case Number:  22STCV20631    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT










 




JULIO MENDEZ,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
VAN NUYS TIRE, et al.,
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                            


 


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV20631
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO FOR
  LEAVE TO FILE AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Date: December 8, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Jury Trial: August 5, 2024
 
 



AND RELATED
CROSS-ACTION
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff
 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant Oxnard Tires Inc. (“OTI”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply
papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
The
currently operative second amended complaint (the “SAC”), filed on September
22, 2022, alleges seven causes of action arising out of an employment
relationship.  
 
 
 
            On October 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to
file a third amended complaint (the “Motion”). 
The proposed third amended complaint (the “TAC”) adds OTI as a party to
the sixth cause of action for fraudulent transfer.  (See Declaration of Ken Boyd (“Boyd
Decl.”) ¶ 2, Exhibit A.) 
 
DISCUSSION
California
Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 473 permits the trial court in
its discretion to allow amendments to pleadings in the furtherance of
justice.  (See CCP § 473, subd.
(a).)  CCP section 576 provides that any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading
or pretrial conference order.  (CCP §
576.)  There is a policy of great
liberality in permitting amendments to the pleadings at any stage of the proceeding.  (Berman v. Bromberg (1997) 56
Cal.App.4th 936, 945.)  An application to
amend a pleading is addressed to the trial judge’s sound discretion.  (Id.) 
If the motion to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion
will not prejudice the opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to
amend and where the refusal also results in a party being deprived of the right
to assert a meritorious cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not
only error but an abuse of discretion.  (Morgan
v. Superior Court of Cal. In and For Los Angeles County (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)  Where no prejudice
is shown to the adverse party, the liberal rule of allowance prevails.  (Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123
Cal.App.3d 558, 564.) 
 
 
 
Under
California Rules of Court (“CRC”) rule 3.1324, a motion for leave to amend
a pleading must be accompanied by a declaration that sets forth: (1) the effect
of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the
reasons why the request for amendment was not made sooner.  (CRC, r. 3.1324(b).)
 
In
support of the Motion, Plaintiff’s counsel declares that OTI’s inadvertent
omission from the SAC’s sixth cause of action was discovered in October
2023.  (See Boyd Decl. ¶¶
5-6.)  Plaintiff’s counsel also declares
that Plaintiff has exchanged written discovery with OTI that relates to the
fraudulent transfer claim and that no depositions have yet been taken.  (Boyd Decl. ¶¶ 8-9.) 
 
OTI
argues that it will be prejudiced by the proposed amendment because it will
incur additional litigation costs.  OTI
provides no specific evidence of the anticipated extra costs to demonstrate
prejudice that overcomes the liberal policy of allowing amended pleadings.[1]
 
            The Court finds that the Motion sets forth sufficient
facts to permit the filing of the TAC. 
The Court therefore GRANTS the Motion with five days leave to file the
TAC. 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the
motion will be placed off calendar.
 
    
Dated this 8th day of December 2023
 



 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 





