 Case Number:  21STCV42481    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DR. PAYAM VAHEDIFAR, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
BRIAN PAYA, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV42481
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO
  DISQUALIFY COUNSEL
 
Date: 
  December 7, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Jury Trial: January 29, 2024
 



AND
RELATED CROSS-ACTION
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants 
 
The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers.
 
BACKGROUND
This action arises out of a landlord/tenant
relationship.  Plaintiffs’ complaint (the
“Complaint”) alleges: (1) violation of Civil Code section 1950.5; (2) statutory
fraud or deceit and common law fraud; (3) intentional misrepresentation; (4)
negligent misrepresentation; (5) fraudulent concealment; (6) negligence; (7)
negligence per se; (8) conversion; (9) breach of fiduciary duty; (10) breach of
contract; (11) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing;
(12) violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200 et seq; (13)
intentional infliction of emotional distress; (14) negligent infliction of
emotional distress; (15) unjust enrichment and restitution; (16) intentional
interference with contractual relations; and (17) conspiracy to breach contract
and to interfere with contractual relations. 

 
On October 31, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a
motion to disqualify Brian Paya (“Mr. Paya”) as Defendants’ counsel (the
“Motion”) on the grounds that Mr. Paya’s disqualification is proper under the
advocate-witness rule.
 
DISCUSSION
A
trial court’s authority to disqualify an attorney derives from the power
inherent in every court, to control in furtherance of justice, the conduct of
its ministerial officers, and all other persons in any manner connected with a
judicial proceeding before it, in every matter pertaining thereto.  (In re Complex Asbestos Litigation
(1991) 232 Cal.App.3d 572, 585.)  A
motion to disqualify a party’s counsel raises several important interests.  (California Self-Insurers’ Security Fund
v. Superior Court (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 1065, 1071.)  Thus, judges must examine these motions
carefully to ensure that literalism does not deny the parties substantial
justice.  (Id.)  Depending on the circumstances, a
disqualification motion may involve such considerations as a client’s right to
chosen counsel, an attorney’s interest in representing a client, the financial
burden on a client to replace disqualified counsel, and the possibility that
tactical abuse underlies the disqualification motion.  (Id.)  
 
A
motion to disqualify can be made on the ground that the attorney should be
disqualified because they are likely to be called as a witness by their own
client or by the opposing party in a trial before a jury, judge,
administrative-law judge, or arbitrator. 
(See Smith, Smith & Kring v. Superior Court (1997) 60
Cal.App.4th 573, 578-79.)  Under California Rules of Professional Conduct
(“CRPC”), rule 3.7(a): “A lawyer shall not act as an advocate in a trial in
which the lawyer is likely to be a witness unless: (1) the lawyer’s testimony
relates to an uncontested issue or matter; (2) the lawyer’s testimony relates to
the nature and value of legal services rendered in the case; or (3) the lawyer
has obtained informed written consent from the client.”  (CPRC, r. 3.7(a).)
 
In
exercising its discretion to disqualify counsel under the advocate-witness
rule, a court must consider: (1) whether counsel's testimony is, in fact,
genuinely needed; (2) the possibility opposing counsel is using the motion to
disqualify for purely tactical reasons; and (3) the combined effects of the
strong interest parties have in representation by counsel of their choice, and
in avoiding the duplicate expense and time-consuming effort involved in
replacing counsel already familiar with the case.  (Doe v.
Yim (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 573, 583.) 
Trial judges must indicate on the record they have considered the
appropriate factors and make specific findings of fact when weighing the
conflicting interests involved in recusal motions.  (Id. at 584.)  
 
            The Motion discusses Mr. Paya’s alleged involvement in
the conduct described in Plaintiffs’ Complaint, but does not present any
evidence or argument regarding whether Plaintiffs intend to call him as a
witness during the upcoming trial or of the anticipated scope of any resulting
testimony.[1]  Furthermore, the Motion does not provide an
explanation as to why disqualification was not sought earlier in the
proceedings, rather than on the eve of trial.  The Court therefore DENIES the Motion.   
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice of
this ruling.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
        Dated this 7th day of December 2023
 



 


 




 


Hon. Holly J. Fujie
Judge of the Superior Court
 



 
 


