 Case Number:  23STCV18563    Hearing Date:   December 7, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



RSSB HOLDINGS, LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
AIDE H. ESCOBEDO-ABELESKI, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.





     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV18563
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO STRIKE 
 
Date: 
  December 7, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
Judge: Holly J. Fujie
 



 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant Isaac Abelsky (“Moving Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff
            
            The Court has considered the moving
and opposition papers.  No reply papers
were filed.  Any reply papers were
required to have been filed and served at least five court days before the
hearing under California Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 1005,
subdivision (b). 
 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises out of alleged
property damage.  Plaintiff’s complaint
(the “Complaint”) alleges: (1) negligence; (2) negligent failure to maintain
real property in a safe condition; (3) trespass; and (4) intentional refusal to
maintain real property in a safe condition. 
 
In
relevant part, the Complaint alleges: Moving Defendant owns real property (the
“Subject Property”) that abuts Plaintiff’s real property.  (Complaint ¶ 8.)  For the last three years, deterioration on the
Subject Property has caused damage to Plaintiff’s property.  (See Complaint ¶ 12.)  
 
On
November 1, 2023, Moving Defendant filed a motion to strike (the “Motion”)
portions of the Complaint concerning punitive damages. 
 
DISCUSSION
Meet
and Confer
            The Motion does
not include facts that demonstrate that the meet and confer requirement was
met.  Lack of compliance with the meet
and confer requirement, however, is not a basis for granting or denying a
motion to strike, and the Court will therefore consider the Motion on its
merits.  (See CCP § 435.5, subd.
(a)(4).) 
 
Legal
Standard
A motion to strike either: (1) strikes any
irrelevant, false or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strikes
any pleading or part thereof not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
this state, a court rule or order of court.  (CCP § 436.)  
 
 
 
 
Punitive
Damages
Under
Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff may recover punitive damages in an action
for breach of an obligation not arising from contract when the plaintiff proves
by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code
§ 3294, subd. (a).)  Malice is conduct
which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff, or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.  (Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) 
Despicable conduct is conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable,
wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by
ordinary decent people.  (Mock v. Michigan Millers Mutual Ins. Co.
(1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 306, 331.)  Oppression is defined as despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person’s rights. 
(Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (c)(2.)
 
In
order to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint must set
forth the elements as stated in Civil Code section 3294.  (Today's IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.)  In addition to the requirement that the
operative complaint set forth the elements as stated in section 3294, it must
include specific factual allegations showing that defendant's conduct was
oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious to support a claim for punitive damages.  (Id.) 
Punitive damages may not be pleaded generally.  (Id.)
 
            The Complaint alleges that Moving
Defendant’s conduct was malicious and oppressive because he intentionally
failed to take steps to make repairs to the Subject Property despite being
requested to make repairs multiple times and having knowledge of the damage
being caused to Plaintiff’s property.  (Complaint
¶ 29.)  The Court finds that these facts
are insufficient to allege conduct that may form the basis for a punitive
damages award.  The Court therefore GRANTS
the Motion with thirty days leave to amend the Complaint. 
 
Moving party
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar. 
 
  Dated
this 7th day of December 2023
 



  






Hon. Holly J. Fujie 
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


