 This is a habitability matter.  On December 27, 2022, Plaintiffs Yandel Liliana Montoya, Francisco Javier Becerra, Melanie Becerra, Isaiah Joseph Becerra, and Nylah Leanne Becerra filed the operative Complaint against Defendants L&B Real Estate, William Little, and William Little Co.Minors Melanie Becerra, Isaiah Joseph Becerra, and Nylah Leanne Becerra, by and through their guardian ad litem, Yandel Liliana Montoya, seek to settle their claims against Defendants L&B Real Estate, LP, William Little Co., and William LittleCourt approval is required for all settlements of a minor’s claim.  (Probate Code §§ 3500, 3600, et seq.; Code of Civ. Proc. § 372.)  The Court has reviewed the proposed settlement and finds that it is fair and reasonable.  Further, the Court finds the requested attorneys’ fees to be fair and reasonable.Isaiah and NylahWith respect to Isaiah and Nylah, the Court approves the use of annuities.  The Court will set on OSC re: funding of settlement and purchase of annuities for August 13, 2024. MelanieMelanie requests a special needs trust (“SNT”).  “A special needs trust is a type of discretionary spendthrift trust designed to preserve public assistance benefits for the [disabled] trust beneficiary while, simultaneously, providing for the beneficiary's ‘special needs’ that are not met by public assistance. (Sen. Com. on Judiciary, Analysis of Assem. Bill No. 3328 (1991–1992 Reg. Sess.) as amended June 10, 1992, pp. 2–3; see Recommendation: Special Needs Trust for Disabled Minor or Incompetent Person (Apr. 1992) 22 Cal. Law Revision Com. Rep. (1992) p. 993.) Specifically, federal law authorizes a severely disabled individual under the age of 65 to shelter his or her assets in a safe-harbor trust established for the individual's sole benefit by the individual (the trust beneficiary), the beneficiary's parent, grandparent, or legal guardian, or by a court. The trust assets are not considered to be the beneficiary's resources when determining whether the beneficiary qualifies to receive needs-based public assistance, in particular supplemental security income (SSI) and Medi-Cal. The beneficiary may shelter the assets in the special needs trust on condition the state will receive all amounts remaining in the trust upon the beneficiary's death or the trust's termination up to the amount of Medi-Cal benefits the state paid for the beneficiary. (42 U.S.C. § 1396p(d)(4)(A); Prob. Code, §§ 3602, subd. (d), 3604, 3605 (statutory section citations that follow are found in the Probate Code unless otherwise stated); Herting v. State Dept. of Health Care Services (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 607, 612–613 [185 Cal. Rptr. 3d 401]; see Special Needs Trusts: Planning, Drafting, and Administration (Cont.Ed.Bar 2022) § 1.7 ([ ].)”  (McGee v. State Dept. of Health Care Services (2013) 91 Cal.App.5th 1161, 1164 (internal quotes omitted).)The main requirements for court created or funded trusts are set forth at California Rules of Court (CRC) rule 7.903(c) and LASC rule 4.116(b). The proposed trust instrument meets these requirements.“A special needs trust may be established and continued under this section only if the court determines all of the following:(1) That the minor or person with a disability has a disability that substantially impairs the individual’s ability to provide for the individual’s own care or custody and constitutes a substantial handicap.(2) That the minor or person with a disability is likely to have special needs that will not be met without the trust.(3) That money to be paid to the trust does not exceed the amount that appears reasonably necessary to meet the special needs of the minor or person with a disability.”(Prob. Code § 3604(b).   The Court finds that (a) Melanie suffers from a number of serious symptoms stemming from lead poisoning, including neurocognitive and behavioral deficits that will affect her ability to care for herself; (b) without the use of this trust, it is likely Melanie will require ongoing medical treatment and/or educational support that cannot be addressed financially; and (c) given that lead poisoning often has long term effects, the amount being deposited in the trust is quite reasonable.  The Court approves the use of a SNT in this matter.   Further, the Court approves and requires that the trustee, Pamela Blattner, provide a $249,500 bond.  (See Prob. Code § 2320(c); CRC 7.207(c).) The Court sets an OSC re: funding of settlement, filing of trust supervisory action, and submission of trustee bond for August 13, 2024. An accounting for the SNT is to be presented to the probate department within 12 months.In sum, the Petitions to Approve Minor’s Compromise are granted.Per California Rules of Court, Rule 7.952, Petitioner and Claimant must appear at the hearing, unless the Court finds good cause to excuse their appearance.  The Court finds that Claimants’ appearances are not necessary, but will require Petitioner to appear.Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 