This is a dispute relating to renovations to a duplex.  On February 20, 2020, Whitestone Builders, Inc. (“Whitestone”) filed a Complaint against Valerie Taylor and Derek Taylor for (1) breach of contract, (2) account stated, (3) common count, (4) unjust enrichment, and (5) foreclosure on mechanic’s lien.On July 6, 2022, Valerie Taylor and Derek Taylor filed a Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”) against Cross-Defendants Whitestone, Pier Pjerin Prenga, and Suretec Indemnity Company for (1) disgorgement; (2) rescission and restitution—violation of Bus. & Prof. Code § 7159; (3) rescission and restitution—contract void for illegality; (4) declaratory relief; (5) breach of written contract; (6) negligence; (7) fraud; and (8) contractor’s license bond.On August 18, 2023, Whitestone filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).Whitestone and Prenga now seek to augment their expert designation by adding Prenga as an expert.  They contend that “Whitestone withdrew its expert witness in February 2024. [ ]. Due to financial difficulties and hardships, Whitestone has been unable to retain another expert. Although Whitestone anticipated that its financial hardships would dissipate, it has not been the case. Nonetheless, based on the nature of this case (construction) and the parties’ claims, expert opinions are necessary to explain subjects that are beyond common experience and knowledge, and to rebut the testimony of the Taylors’ ‘expert’ witness.”Code Civ. Proc. § 2034.620 states,The court shall grant leave to augment or amend an expert witness list or declaration only if all of the following conditions are satisfied:(a) The court has taken into account the extent to which the opposing party has relied on the list of expert witnesses.(b) The court has determined that any party opposing the motion will not be prejudiced in maintaining that party's action or defense on the merits.(c) The court has determined either of the following:(1) The moving party would not in the exercise of reasonable diligence have determined to call that expert witness or have decided to offer the different or additional testimony of that expert witness.(2) The moving party failed to determine to call that expert witness, or to offer the different or additional testimony of that expert witness as a result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect, and the moving party has done both of the following:(A) Sought leave to augment or amend promptly after deciding to call the expert witness or to offer the different or additional testimony.(B) Promptly thereafter served a copy of the proposed expert witness information concerning the expert or the testimony described in Section 2034.260 on all other parties who have appeared in the action.(d) Leave to augment or amend is conditioned on the moving party making the expert available immediately for a deposition under Article 3 (commencing with Section 2034.410 ), and on any other terms as may be just, including, but not limited to, leave to any party opposing the motion to designate additional expert witnesses or to elicit additional opinions from those previously designated, a continuance of the trial for a reasonable period of time, and the awarding of costs and litigation expenses to any party opposing the motion.A motion to augment “shall be made at a sufficient time in advance of the time limit for the completion of discovery under Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 2024.010) to permit the deposition of any expert to whom the motion relates to be taken within that time limit. Under exceptional circumstances, the court may permit the motion to be made at a later time.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2034.610.)  The cutoff for expert discovery is 15 days before the initial trial date.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2024.030.)The Motion was filed about 40 days before the current trial date of July 1, 2024.  Despite being advanced via ex parte application by nearly a month, the Motion is being heard on the last court day before the expert discovery cut-off date of June 16, 2024.  The Court concludes the Motion was not filed with sufficient promptness to complete the proposed expert’s deposition. Under exceptional circumstances, the Court can allow a later motion, but the Court does not see any such circumstances here.  Whitestone and Prenga were admittedly aware in February 2024 that they did not have an expert due to financial difficulties, and, yet, waited until May 22, 2024, to bring the instant Motion.  That is, Whitestone and Prenga created this situation for themselves.The Motion to Augment Expert Designation is, thus, denied.  The Court declines to award sanctions.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 