 Case Number:  23STCV30210    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  30  Meet and Confer:  Before bringing a motion to compel further responses to any discovery request, the moving party is required to make efforts to meet and confer in good faith and must submit a declaration attesting to those efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2031.310, subd. (b)(2), 2030.300, subd. (b), 2033.290 subd. (b).)¿“A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each¿issue presented by the motion.”¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)¿However, a discovery motion need not be denied automatically based upon the reason that the moving parties failed to¿meet and confer in good faith.¿(See¿Obregon v. Superior Court¿(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 434.)¿  On November 18, 2024, Plaintiff sent Defendant a meet and confer letter requesting the production of documents. (Kintzelf Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. C.) Defendant produced a response on November 25 but it included objections and was incomplete. (Id. ¶ 5, Ex. D.) Accordingly, the Court finds that the parties have sufficiently attempted met and conferred prior to filing this motion.   Analysis:  Plaintiff moves to compel Defendant Zara Barani to produce all the documents demanded in Plaintiff’s September 19, 2024, deposition notice. Plaintiff also requests monetary sanctions against Defendant in the amount of $2,200. The motion is stayed pending the scheduling of an informal discovery conference.  Legal Standard  A party may move for an order compelling further response to a request for production of documents if the demanding party deems that responses are incomplete, evasive, or contain meritless objections. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)  A motion to compel further responses to an inspection demand “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.” (Id., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)¿“Good cause” may be found to justify discovery where specific facts show that the discovery is necessary for effective trial preparation or to prevent surprise at trial.¿ (See Associated Brewers Dist. Co. v. Superior Court (1967) 65 Cal.2d 583, 586-588.) Additionally, “[i]f a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the deponent’s control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order compelling that answer or production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (a).)  “For discovery purposes, information is relevant if it ‘might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.’ [Citation].¿Admissibility is not the test and information, unless privileged, is discoverable if it might reasonably lead to admissible evidence. [Citation]¿These rules are applied liberally in favor of discovery.” (Gonzales v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.)   Discussion Local Court Rules: Department 30  Defendant asserts that Plaintiff did not participate in an informal discovery conference prior to moving to compel further responses. Local Court rules dictate “The court will not hear a discovery motion, other than a motion to compel where there has been no response, until the parties participate in an informal discovery conference with the court.”   On September 19, 2024, Plaintiff took the deposition of Defendant, but did not request the documents noticed in the deposition. (Edwards Decl. ¶ 2.) On November 25, Defendant provided documents in response to a request for documents noticed in the deposition of Defendant to Plaintiff. (Id. ¶ 4.) Rather than responding to the document production, Plaintiff filed the present motion. (Id. ¶ 5.) Plaintiff did not request or participate in an informal discovery conference prior to filing the motion. Because the present motion seeks to compel further production of documents where Defendant has already offered a response, local rules dictate that Plaintiff first participate in an informal discovery conference. Accordingly, the present motion is stayed pending participation in an IDC.   The Court therefore stays the instant motion pending participation in an IDC. 