 Case Number:  23STCV24723    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  30 MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION  Analysis  The Hearth Project, LLC (Defendant) moves for an order compelling Nicole Greene (Plaintiff) to submit to binding arbitration and stay this action pending resolution of the arbitration. The motion is granted.  Evidentiary Objections  Defendant objects to the declaration of Andrew Bogard on various grounds. Those objections are overruled. Bogard sufficiently establishes foundation and personal knowledge of the events contained in the declaration to survive an objection under Evidence Code section 702. (Bogard Decl. ¶ 1.) Nor does the Court find the testimony within the declaration to be speculative. Defendant’s objections on hearsay grounds are overruled as the statements constitute party admissions.  Legal Standard  “On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines that: (a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2, subds. (a), (b).)  A proceeding to compel arbitration is in essence a suit in equity to compel specific performance of a contract. (Freeman v. State Farm Mutual Auto Insurance Co. (1975) 14 Cal.3d 473, 479.) Such enforcement may be sought by a party to the arbitration agreement. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1280, subd. (e)(1).)   A motion to compel arbitration requires the facts to be proven by affidavit or declaration and documentary evidence with oral testimony taken only in the court’s discretion. (Code Civ. Proc., §1290.2; Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413–414.) The motion must set forth the provisions of the written agreement and the arbitration clause verbatim, or such provisions must be attached and incorporated by reference. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330; see Condee v. Longwood Mgmt. Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218.)    Once the moving party alleges that an arbitration agreement exists, the burden shifts to the responding party to prove the falsity of the purported agreement, and no evidence or authentication is required to find the arbitration agreement exists. (See Condee, supra, 88 Cal.App.4th at p. 219.) However, if the existence of the agreement is challenged, “[movant] bears the burden of proving [the arbitration agreement’s] existence by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Rosenthal, supra, p. 413; see also Espejo v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1058–1060.)  Discussion   Defendant argues that a valid arbitration agreement exists. A party moving to compel arbitration may meet its initial burden by providing a copy of the signed arbitration agreement. (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 165–166.) Here, Defendant points to the Purchase and Sale Agreement (PSA) between the parties and the arbitration provision contained therein. (Compl., Ex. A § 14.) The PSA provides that “any dispute . . . shall first be submitted to mediation and, if not settled during meditation, shall thereafter be submitted to binding arbitration.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff does not challenge the validity of the agreement. Thus, Defendant has met its initial burden.   Plaintiff argues that Defendant waived its right to compel arbitration. In determining whether a party has waived its right to arbitration, courts consider many factors, including: “(1) whether the party's actions are inconsistent with the right to arbitrate; (2) whether ‘the litigation machinery has been substantially invoked’ and the parties ‘were well into preparation of a lawsuit’ before the party notified the opposing party of an intent to arbitrate; (3) whether a party either requested arbitration enforcement close to the trial date or delayed for a long period before seeking a stay; (4) whether a defendant seeking arbitration filed a counterclaim without asking for a stay of the proceedings; (5) ‘whether important intervening steps [e.g., taking advantage of judicial discovery procedures not available in arbitration] had taken place’; and (6) whether the delay ‘affected, misled, or prejudiced’ the opposing party.” (St. Agnes Medical Center v. PacifiCare of California (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1196 (St. Agnes).) Proof of waiver must be by clear and convincing evidence. (Quach v. California Commerce Club, Inc. (2024) 16 Cal.5th 562, 584 (Quach).) But there is no requirement that the party opposing enforcement of the arbitration agreement demonstrate prejudice. (Id. at p. 585.)  Defendant’s actions are not inconsistent with the right to arbitrate. “To establish waiver under generally applicable contract law, the party opposing enforcement of a contractual agreement must prove by clear and convincing evidence that the waiving party knew of the contractual right and intentionally relinquished or abandoned it.” (Quach, supra, 16 Cal.5th at p. 584.) This may be shown through evidence of words expressing an intent to relinquish the right or “conduct that is so inconsistent with an intent to enforce the contractual right as to lead a reasonable factfinder to conclude that the party had abandoned it.” (Ibid.)   Here, Plaintiff does not point to any words by Defendant expressing an intent to relinquish its right to arbitration. Further, the Court finds that Defendant’s conduct is consistent with an intent to enforce the arbitration right. A brief recitation of the events leading up to the present motion is required.   On December 29, 2022, Plaintiff sent Defendant notice of her claim and a demand for mediation and arbitration. (Bogard Decl. ¶ 4.) The parties initially agreed to a mediation on June 6, 2023, but were forced to reschedule to August 23, 2023, due to inclement weather. (Id. ¶ 5.) Defendant requested a one-month extension, to which Plaintiff agreed. (Id. ¶ 6.) On September 15, 2023, Defendant canceled the mediation in full, leading Plaintiff to file the present lawsuit. (Id. ¶ 7.) Defendant later agreed to reschedule a mediation for February 13, 2024, but the parties failed to reach an agreement on that date. (Id. ¶¶ 10, 13.) Plaintiff served discovery on Defendant on February 13, which Defendant responded to on May 16. (Id. ¶ 14.) On July 11, 2024, Defendant filed a cross-complaint against a third-party. (Ibid.) Defendant agreed to a deposition of its person most qualified set for July 31, 2024, but the deposition was delayed after counsel for the third-party made a surprise appearance. (Id. ¶ 15.) Defendant has refused to resume the deposition. (Id. ¶ 16.) Plaintiff served further discovery on September 10, which Defendant objected to on October 14. (Id. ¶ 17.) Defendant filed the present motion to compel arbitration the day after Plaintiff named another third-party as a defendant. (Ibid.)   Defendant’s delay in seeking arbitration does not by itself constitute conduct demonstrating abandonment because Defendant sought to exercise its right to mediation. The PSA called for arbitration if mediation failed. (Compl., Ex. A. § 14.) Thus, the months of delay surrounding mediation proceedings do not show that Defendant intended to relinquish its right to arbitrate because the PSA also contemplated mediation.   Nor is Defendant’s conduct after mediation concluded inconsistent with an intent to arbitrate. The PSA explicitly contemplated arbitration after unsuccessful mediation proceedings, providing that disputes, “if not settled during mediation, shall thereafter be submitted to binding arbitration.” (Ibid.) Plaintiff consistently maintained that she desired mediation. (Codog Decl. ¶¶ 7, 9–12.) Defendant’s responses to Plaintiff’s propounded discovery did not demonstrate a waiver of its right to arbitrate, since mediation had not yet concluded and the right to arbitrate had not yet been realized. In fact, Defendant has reiterated that its participation in discovery is not meant as a waiver of its arbitration rights. (Id. ¶ 13, Ex. 9.) Thus, Plaintiff has not demonstrated by clear and convincing evidence that Defendant’s actions are so inconsistent with the right to arbitrate that they constitute waiver. Plaintiff’s similar argument that Defendant waived its right to arbitration through unnecessary delay fails for the same reason.  Alternatively, Plaintiff argues that Defendant has waived its right to arbitration by invoking the “litigation machinery.” In Oregel v. PacPizza, LLC (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 342, 355–56 (Oregel), a court of appeal affirmed the denial of an order to compel arbitration on the basis that the defendant had already engaged in discovery, participated in case management conferences, and failed to raise its arbitration agreement as an affirmative defense. The present case is distinguishable. Here, Defendant did assert the arbitration agreement as an affirmative defense. (Answer ¶ 22.) Additionally, Defendant did not actively participate in discovery to the extent of the defendant in Oregel. There, the defendant not only responded to the plaintiff’s discovery requests but also propounded its own discovery. Here, Defendant has only responded to Plaintiff’s discovery while reiterating its intent to resolve the present dispute through mediation. Finally, in the present case the PSA contemplates the conclusion of mediation proceedings before arbitration. In Oregel, the defendant had no similar reason to wait to assert its arbitration right. Thus, the Court does not find that Oregel applies to the present case. Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration is granted.  Defendant additionally requests that the present proceedings be stayed pending the outcome of arbitration. If a court orders arbitration of a controversy, the court shall stay the action or proceeding until arbitration is complete on motion by a party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.) Here, the Court has ordered arbitration. Accordingly, the proceedings are stayed pending the outcome of that arbitration.   Plaintiff’s additional argument concerning the arbitrability of its claims against Roundhouse will be considered pursuant to the pending motion to compel arbitration filed by that party.   Conclusion  The motion to compel arbitration filed by Defendant is granted and the proceedings are stayed as to Defendant The Hearth Project LLC pending completion of arbitration.  