 Case Number:  23STCV29762    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  30  MOTION TO SET ASIDE/VACATE DISMISSAL   Showroom Interiors LLC (Plaintiff) moves for an order to set aside the dismissal entered by the Court on August 1, 2024, for failure to appear at a case management conference or file the required statement. The motion is unopposed.  Legal Standard  Under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b): “the court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”  Mandatory relief from default or dismissal is available when fault of counsel is shown through affidavit: “the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any . . . resulting default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)   Discussion  Plaintiff moves for mandatory relief from dismissal within the six month window required by statute based on the fault of Plaintiff’s counsel. Where counsel submits an affidavit attesting to their fault, the Court must grant relief unless it finds that the dismissal was not in fact caused by counsel’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) Here, Plaintiff’s counsel offers a declaration alleging that due to his own in advertent and mistaken calendaring of the hearing date for the wrong day, he did not file a timely case management statement or attend the hearing. (Tapper Decl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiff also failed to attend the hearing due to counsel’s mistake. (Ibid.) Thus, Plaintiff’s motion to vacate dismissal is accompanied by an attorney’s affidavit attesting to his mistake, and vacatur of dismissal is mandatory. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion is granted. 