

 
I. BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Michele Bidinger “Plaintiff” resided in an
apartment building (the “Apartment”), which was owned by defendant Ralph
Shaffer (“Ralph”), for which defendant Abrienne Schaffer (“Abrienne”) was the
“acting landlord,” which was managed by defendants Vivian Sypien (“Vivian”) and
Andrew Sypien (“Andrew” and, together with, Abrienne, and Vivian, “Opposing
Parties”), and for which defendant Isaac Stewart (“Isaac” and, together with
Ralph and Opposing Parties, “Defendants”) was “acting resident manager.” (SAC
p. 2.) Plaintiff vacated the Apartment on November 15, 2021. (Id. at p.
3.) During her tenancy at the Apartment, she alleges she was subject to various
harassment related to her tenancy by Defendants in violation of The City Of Los
Angeles Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance, Los Angeles, Cal. Mun. Code §¿45.33,
et seq. (Ibid.) 
 
On November 15, 2022, Plaintiff initiated this lawsuit by
filing a complaint (the “Complaint”). Plaintiff subsequently amended the
Complaint and then, after this court sustained a motion to strike against the
first amended complaint, Plaintiff amended the first amended complaint by
filing a second amended complaint (the “SAC”). The SAC alleges four causes of
action: (1) statutory violations, (2) breach of implied covenant of quiet
enjoyment, (3) intentional infliction of emotional distress, and (4) negligent
supervision.
 
On
January 5, 2024, Plaintiff propounded a set of special interrogatories on each
of Opposing Parties. (Motion Exh. 1.) On February 22, 2024, Abrienne served
Plaintiff with her responses to the special interrogatories. (Id. at
Exh. 2.) 
 
On
April 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel further responses
to a special interrogatory (the “Motion”). Opposing Parties opposed the Motion
on May 1, 2024, and Plaintiff replied to Opposing Parties’ opposition six days
later, on May 7, 2024.
 
II. PROCEDURAL MATTERS
 

Timeliness of Filings

 
All motions to compel further responses to written discovery
must be brought within 45 days of receiving the challenged responses, or as
otherwise agreed upon in writing.¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2030.300, subd.
(c), 2031.310, subd. (b)(1), 2033.290, subd. (c).)¿ This deadline is
jurisdictional, and courts are without authority to grant untimely motions.¿ (Vidal
Sassoon, Inc. v. Superior Court (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 681, 685.) Per
California Code of Civil Procedure §¿1005, subdivision (b), moving papers
should be filed at least 16 court days before they are set for hearing,
oppositions thereto should be filed at least nine court days before the set
hearing, and replies to any oppositions should be filed at least five court
days before the set hearing.
 
Plaintiff submits with the Motion a declaration by her
attorney signed under penalty of perjury, which states that “[t]he time to
bring a motion to compel has been extended by Defendant until April 18, 2024.”
(Kurtz Decl. ¶ 4.) The declaration also attaches copies of the e-mails in
which Parties make such agreement. (Id. at Exh. 3.) We are satisfied
that all filings made in connection with the Motion are timely.
 

The Meet and Confer Requirement

 
A Motion to compel further responses to interrogatories must
always be accompanied by a “meet and confer” declaration evidencing a “reasonable
and good faith attempt an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion.”¿ (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §§ 2016.040, 2030.300, subd. (b).)
 
Plaintiff submits with the Motion a declaration by her
attorney signed under penalty of perjury, which attaches copies of e-mails
exchanged with Opposing Parties’ counsel in which they discuss potential
resolution to the issue raised by the Motion. (Kurtz Decl. Exh. 3.) We are
therefore satisfied that this requirement has been met in good faith.
 
III. LEGAL STANDARD
Unless otherwise limited by order of the
court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding
any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in
the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action,
if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 2017.010.) Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking
discovery or of any other party to the action. (Ibid.) 
“Relevant evidence is defined in Evidence
Code section 210 as evidence ‘having any tendency in reason to prove or
disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the determination of the
action.’ The test of relevance is whether the evidence tends logically,
naturally, and by reasonable inference to establish material facts. The trial
court has broad discretion in determining the relevance of evidence but lacks
discretion to admit irrelevant evidence.” (Donlen v. Ford Motor Co.
(2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 148, internal quotations and citations omitted; see
also Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 97 [“[I]n the
context of discovery, evidence is relevant if it might reasonably assist a
party in evaluating its case, preparing for trial, or facilitating
a¿settlement.”].) 
A court “retains the discretion to weigh the burden of
compliance against the likelihood of producing helpful information, to avoid duplicative
production, and to narrow demands if appropriate to balance the reasonable
concerns of both parties.” (Volkswagen of America, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 1481, 1497.) “[Discovery] statutes must be construed
liberally in favor of disclosure unless the request is clearly improper by
virtue of well-established causes for denial.” (Greyhound Corp. v. Superior
Court In and For Merced County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 355, 377.) But, “discovery,
like all matters of procedure, has its ultimate and necessary boundaries.” (Columbia
Broadcasting System, Inc. v. Superior Court for Los Angeles County (1968)
263 Cal.App.2d 12, 19.) 
 
A party on whom interrogatories are propounded is
required to refer to all sources of information that are under the party's
control. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.220, subds. (a)–(b).) A responding party’s duty also encompasses the
requirement that it make a reasonable and good faith effort to obtain the
information sought by the interrogatory, except where that information is
readily available to the propounding party. (Regency Health Services, Inc.
v. Superior Court (1998) 64 Cal. App.4th 1496, 1504; Deyo v. Kilbourne
(1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 782 [“If a party is unable to fully answer it should
set forth the efforts made to secure the information.”].) If an interrogatory
cannot be answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.220, subd.
(b).)¿¿ 
¿ 
If the responding party responds with inappropriate
objections or evasive or incomplete answers, the propounding party may move for
an order compelling a further response. (Code Civ. Proc. §¿2030.300.) A motion
to compel further is properly brought to challenge “boilerplate” responses to
special interrogatories. (Best Products, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004)
119 Cal.App.4th 1181, 1190; see also Hernandez v. Superior Court (2003)
112 Cal.App.4th 285, 294.) The responding party bears the burden of justifying
any objection or insufficient answer to a special interrogatory. (Coy v.
Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220–21 [“Defendants here had the
burden of showing facts from which the trial court might find that the
interrogatories were interposed for improper purposes. The statute does not
require any showing of good cause for the serving and filing of
interrogatories.”].) “Nevertheless, if interrogatories are reasonably subject
to objection as calling for the disclosure of matters so remote from the
subject matter of the action as disclosed by the issues framed by the pleadings
as to make their disclosure of little or no practical benefit to the party
seeking the disclosure or if to answer them would place a burden and expense
upon the parties to whom the interrogatories are propounded which should be
equitably borne by the propounder or if the interrogatories are so framed as to
require the disclosure of relevant as well as irrelevant matter, the trial
court in the exercise of its discretion may refuse to order such
interrogatories answered.” (Columbia Broadcasting System, Inc. v. Superior
Court for Los Angeles County, supra at 19.)¿ 
 
“The disclosure of the names and addresses of potential
witnesses¿is a routine and essential part of pretrial discovery.” (People v.
Dixon (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 414, 443.) However, “[d]iscovery may be
prohibited where the information violates the right to privacy and is not
necessary to the prosecution of the matter.” (Puerto v. Superior Court
(2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1254.) “The California Constitution expressly
provides that all people have the inalienable right to privacy.” (Johnson v.
Superior Court (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 1050, 1068, disapproved on other
grounds by Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557, citing Cal.
Const., art. I, § 1.) “[T]he California Constitution expressly recognizes a
right of privacy [that] is considered broader than the implied federal
right to privacy.” (Ibid.) 
 
Addresses are private. (Puerto v. Superior Court, supra,
at 1254; Lori v. Medical Board (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 462, 468; City
of San Jose v. Superior Court (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1017, fn. 5.)
There is a privacy interest against disclosure of addresses and telephone
numbers. (Planned Parenthood Golden Gate v. Superior Court (2000)
83 Cal.App.4th 347, 367, disapproved on other grounds by Williams v.
Superior Court, supra, at 557; Morales v. Superior Court
(1979) 99 Cal.App.3d 283, 291; Board of Trustees v. Superior Court
(1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 516, 529, disapproved on other grounds by Williams v.
Superior Court, supra, at 557.) Individuals have a reasonable
expectation of privacy in their addresses, and the disclosure of such addresses
constitutes a serious invasion of that privacy interest. (Puerto v. Superior
Court, supra, at 1252.) However, the privacy interest in contact
information like addresses is not strong. (Id. at 1253 [“[T]he requested
information, while personal, is not particularly sensitive, as it is merely
contact information, not medical or financial details, political affiliations,
sexual relationships, or personnel information.”].)
 
Where a party resists discovery on the basis of a
constitutional right to privacy, the privacy interests must be balanced against
the need for discovery. (Planned Parenthood Golden Gate v. Superior Court,
supra, at 357–58.) “The strength of an individual's interest in keeping
personal information private depends in large part on the consequences of
disclosure.” (Id. at 360.) The existence of a risk of “the infliction of
threats, force and violence” to the person whose address is being sought
through discovery is a consequence of disclosure that strengthens their privacy
interest. (Id. at 360–62.) In Planned Parenthood Golden Gate v.
Superior Court, the party resisting discovery, an abortion provider,
was not compelled to produce the contact information of its employees and
volunteers where the party showed “specific evidence” that the employees and
volunteers “could well face unique and very real threats not just to their
privacy, but to their safety and well-being if personal information
about them is disclosed”; there was evidence that the parties seeking discovery
and their attorneys engaged in anti-abortion protest activities; and party
resisting discovery had offered to facilitate access to its employees and
volunteers as witnesses without having to disclose their personal information,
rendering the discovery no longer necessary. (Id. at 360–67.)
 
IV. DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff brings
the Motion against all Defendants. (Notice of Motion p. 1.) This includes two
Defendants, Ralph and Isaac, on whom the discovery request at issue was not
even propounded. While the special interrogatories at issue were propounded on
Vivian and Andrew, who join Abrienne in opposing the Motion, it is unclear from
the Motion if Vivian and Andrew responded to the special interrogatories and,
if so, whether those answers are also contested. Plaintiff clarifies in her
reply papers that she seeks to compel further responses to the special
interrogatories from only Abrienne. (Reply p. 2.) 
 
Accordingly, to
the extent that the Motion is brought against any of the Defendants other than
Abrienne, it is DENIED.
 
The only special
interrogatory at issue in the Motion is Specially Prepared Interrogatory No.
16, which seeks from Abrienne the current residence address of her co-defendant
Isaac, who is also the father of her grandchild. (Motion p. 3; Separate
Statement p. 2; Opposition p. 2.)
 
Opposing Parties argue in their opposition to the Motion that
Abrienne should not be compelled to produce Isaac’s address because she fears
that Plaintiff could jeopardize the safety of Isaac and his child. (Opposition
pp. 3–4.) However, Opposing Parties do not cite any authority to their point
that safety concerns are independent grounds to deny a motion to compel further
and Abrienne did not raise this objection in her response to the discovery
request. We are not required to consider arguments unsupported by meaningful
discussion or legal authority, and we decline to do so here. (Mansell v.
Board of Education (1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 539, 545–46; In re S.C.
(2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 396, 408 [“When a point is asserted without¿argument¿and
authority for the proposition, it is deemed to be without foundation and
requires no discussion by the reviewing court,” internal quotation marks
omitted.].) However, we will consider these safety concerns when we evaluate
the objection Abrienne did raise which was on privacy grounds.
 
Opposing Parties argue in their opposition that “[t]here is a
privacy issue at stake here.” (Opposition p. 5.) Abrienne objects in her
responses to the special interrogatories on the same grounds. (Separate
Statement p. 2.) We agree that Isaac has a constitutionally protected
reasonable expectation of privacy in his address, and by seeking its
disclosure, Plaintiff seeks to invade that interest. (See Puerto v. Superior
Court, supra, 158 Cal.App.4th 1242 at 1252.) We must therefore
balance Isaac’s privacy interest against Plaintiff’s need for its disclosure.
 
Ordinarily, Isaac’s privacy interest in his address is a weak
one, unless some consequence of disclosure would strengthen it. (See Puerto
v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1242 at 1253.) Following Planned
Parenthood Golden Gate v. Superior Court (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 347
at 360–67, the existence of a risk, as Plaintiff fears, that Isaac’s address
would give Plaintiff “easy access” to Isaac and that “Plaintiff will retaliate
against [Isaac] and potentially place [Abrienne’s] young grandchild in harm's
way” would be a consequence of disclosure of Isaac’s address that would
strengthen his privacy interest. (Abrienne Decl. ¶ 6; Opposition p. 4.) However,
the mere assertion of a fear by the party resisting discovery does not, by
itself, show the existence of such a risk. Unlike in Planned Parenthood
Golden Gate v. Superior Court, there is not, in this case, “specific
evidence” that the risk of harm exists, there is no showing that Plaintiff or
Plaintiff’s attorney have any affiliations to whom they may disclose Isaac’s
address and who might harm Isaac, and Opposing Parties have not offered to
facilitate access to Isaac without the need for the disclosure of his address.
Opposing Parties submit a declaration by Abrienne in which she states that she
“believe[s] there is a substantial reason to fear retaliation by Plaintiff
because when she moved out of the my rental property, she appeared to be angry
and the male friend she brought with her made me concerned for my own safety,”
apparently because the man helping Plaintiff move “was wearing a court ordered
ankle bracelet, literally broke down one of the doors and caused damage to the
property.” (Abrienne Decl. ¶¶ 7–8.) However, there is no connection
expressed between this man and the instant case or Isaac, and no evidence is
raised to show that Plaintiff wishes to harm Isaac or Abrienne’s grandchild or
that Plaintiff creates a risk of harm. This falls short of “specific evidence”
that Plaintiff and the unidentified man who helped her move apartments create a
risk of harm to Isaac if Plaintiff is able to discover Isaac’s address.
Therefore, Abrienne’s fears of a risk of harm do not strengthen Isaac’s privacy
interest in his address.
 
Opposing Parties also contend that Isaac’s address is not
discoverable because Plaintiff seeks it for an improper purpose: to serve him
with the Complaint and summons rather than to contact him as a witness.
(Opposition pp. 4–5.) However, discovery is broad and covers any “relevant”
information. (Greyhound Corp. v. Superior Court In and For Merced County,
supra, 56 Cal.2d 355 at 377.) Evidence is relevant if it “might reasonably assist a party in evaluating its case, preparing
for trial, or facilitating a¿settlement.” (Kirkland v. Superior Court, supra,
95 Cal.App.4th 92 at 97.) Under such a broad definition of relevance, Isaac’s
address is relevant to the instant litigation and discoverable.
 
Thus, we conclude that Plaintiff’s right to discover and need for
disclosure of Isaac’s address outweighs Isaac’s privacy interest therein. 
 
Accordingly, this court GRANTS the Motion against Abrienne.
   Dated:   June 18, 2024                                                             _______­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon.
Eric Harmon
 Judge
of the Superior Court


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
Michele Bidinger,
 
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Ralph,
  Estate of Shaffer, et al.,
 
Defendants.


 
 
   Case Number             Department
  22VECV02007         107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: Motion to Strike


 [THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: Deny

