
  I. BACKGROUND 
Factual
 Plaintiff
Michele Bidinger “Plaintiff” resided in an apartment building (the “Apartment”),
which was owned by defendant Ralph Shaffer (“Ralph”), for which defendant
Abrienne Schaffer (“Abrienne”) was the “acting landlord,” which was managed by
defendants Vivian Sypien (“Vivian”) and Andrew Sypien (“Andrew” and, together
with, Abrienne, and Vivian, “Moving Parties”), and for which defendant Isaac
Stewart (“Isaac” and, together with Ralph and Moving Parties, “Defendants”) was
“acting resident manager.” (SAC p. 2.) Plaintiff vacated the Apartment on
November 15, 2021. (Id. at p. 3.) During her tenancy at the Apartment,
she alleges she was subject to various harassment related to her tenancy by
Defendants in violation of The City Of Los Angeles Tenant Anti-Harassment
Ordinance, Los Angeles, Cal. Mun. Code § 45.33, et seq. (Ibid.) 
Procedural
 On
November 15, 2022, Plaintiff initiated this lawsuit by filing a complaint (the
“Complaint”). On December 29, 2023, Moving Parties moved to strike punitive
damages from the Complaint and on January 5, 2024, Plaintiff served and filed
an amended complaint (the “FAC”), thereby mooting the motion to strike. On
March 12, 2024, this court granted Moving Parties’ motion to strike punitive
damages from the FAC with leave to amend. On
March 25, 2024, Plaintiff attempted to file a second amended complaint (the “SAC”),
but due to a typographical error in the filing, it was not successfully filed
until sometime later. The SAC alleges four causes of action: (1) statutory
violations, (2) breach of implied covenant of quiet enjoyment, (3) intentional
infliction of emotional distress, and (4) negligent supervision. On
April 18, 2024, Moving Parties filed the instant motion to strike (the
“Motion”) punitive damages from the second amended complaint (the “SAC”). On
May 15, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the Motion, and on May 21, 2024, Moving Parties
replied to Plaintiff’s opposition.//////II. PROCEDURAL
MATTERS             A. Timeliness of Filings Per
California Code of Civil Procedure § 435, subdivision (b)(1), a motion to
strike should be filed within 30 days after service of the complaint. Per California
Code of Civil Procedure § 1005, subdivision (b), moving papers should be
filed at least 16 court days before they are set for hearing, oppositions
thereto should be filed at least nine court days before the set hearing, and
replies to any oppositions should be filed at least five court days before the
set hearing. Judges have discretion as to whether to consider or strike an
untimely demurrer or pleading.  (McAllister
v. County of Monterey (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 253, 281; Tuck v. Thuesen
(1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 193, 196, disapproved
on other grounds by Neel v. Magana, Olney, Levy, Cathcart & Gelfand
(1971) 6 Cal.3d 176.) Here,
the Motion, the Opposition, and the Reply were all timely served and filed.             B. The Meet & Confer
Requirement California
Code of Civil Procedure §¿435.5, subdivision (a) requires parties to “meet and
confer” in good faith before the filing of a motion to strike to attempt to informally
resolve the objections raised in the motion to strike. The Moving Parties’
counsel submits a declaration with the Motion that she conferred with
Plaintiff’s counsel by telephone prior to the filing of the Motion and that
they were unable to resolve the issues raised therein. (Mantovani Decl. ¶¶ 2–3.) We
are thus satisfied that the meet and confer requirement of California Code of
Civil Procedure §¿435.5, subdivision (a) has been met. III.
LEGAL STANDARD The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also strike all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id. at § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must
appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id. at § 437.) A
motion to strike is appropriate to attack a claim for punitive damages. (Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) “In order to survive a
motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing
an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff. In passing on
the correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a
pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context,
and assume their truth.” (Clausen v. Superior Court (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255 (internal citations omitted).) “Further, even though
certain language pleads ultimate facts or conclusions of law, such language
when read in context with the facts alleged as to defendants' conduct may
adequately plead the evil motive requisite to recovery
of punitive damages.” (Monge v. Superior Court (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 503, 510.) “In
order to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a complaint
must set forth the elements as stated in the general punitive damage statute, Civil
Code section 3294.” (Turman v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc.
(2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) California Civil Code section 3294 authorizes
the recovery of punitive damages “[i]n an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice….”  (Civ. Code § 3294(a).) “In
order to justify an award of punitive damages, the defendant must be
guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. He must act with the intent to vex,
injure or annoy, or with a conscious disregard of the plaintiff's rights.” (Silberg
v. California Life Ins. Co. (1974) 11 Cal.3d 452, 462 (internal citations
omitted).) “A claim for exemplary damage may be supported by pleading that the
wrong was committed willfully or with a design to injure.” (Spinks v. Equity
Residential Briarwood Apartments (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1055.) “[M]alice
in fact is required rather than implied malice. However, malice does not
require actual intent to harm. Conscious disregard for the safety of
another may be sufficient where the defendant is aware of the probable
dangerous consequences of his or her conduct and he or she willfully fails to
avoid such consequences.” (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37
Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228 (internal citations omitted).) “In order to justify an
award of punitive damages on this basis, the plaintiff must establish that the
defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct,
and that he wilfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.” (Taylor
v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 895–96.)  “Punitive damages may
not be pleaded generally.” (Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.) “The
mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant
an award of punitive damages.” (Grieves v. Superior Court, supra,
157 Cal.App.3d 159 at 166.) And, “conclusory characterization of defendant's
conduct as intentional, wilful and fraudulent is a patently insufficient
statement of “oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied,” within the
meaning of section 3294.” (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977) 73
Cal.App.3d 864, 872.) “Not only must there be circumstances of oppression,
fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a
claim.” (Grieves, supra, at 166; Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, supra, at 1193
[“In addition to the requirement that the operative complaint set forth the
elements as stated in section 3294, it must
include specific factual allegations showing that defendant's conduct
was oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious to support a claim
for punitive damages.”].) “[P]unitive damages may
be awarded in an action by a residential tenant based on the
landlord's interference with peaceful possession. Punitive damages likewise
are recoverable for… the infliction of emotional distress.” (Spinks v. Equity
Residential Briarwood Apartments, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th 1004 at
1055, internal citations omitted.) However, punitive damages are not
recoverable for breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment because “breach of
the covenant gives rise to an action in contract,” for which punitive damages
may not be recovered. (Ginsberg v. Gamson (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 873,
896–97.) But, “[i]f the landlord's acts or omissions affect the tenant's use
of the property and compel the tenant to vacate, there is a
constructive eviction,” for which punitive damages are recoverable. (Id.
at 897.) In Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 920, a
residential tenant “pleaded sufficient facts to support her prayer for
exemplary damages” when her complaint both “alleged that defendant had actual
knowledge of defective conditions in the premises including leaking sewage,
deteriorated flooring, falling ceiling, leaking roof, broken windows, and other
unsafe and dangerous conditions” and “alleged that defendants ‘In maintaining
said nuisance,… acted with full knowledge of the consequences thereof and the
damage being caused to plaintiff, and their conduct was willful, oppressive and
malicious.’” IV.
DISCUSSION Moving
Parties move to strike paragraph 19, including its subparts a through e, of the
SAC and the SAC’s prayer for punitive damages. (Notice of Motion p. 2.) Paragraph
19 of the SAC reads, in full, 19.
Plaintiff is informed and believes and based thereon alleges that Defendants,
excluding the Estate of Ralph Shaffer, in doing the things alleged above, have
been guilty of oppression, fraud and malice. In particular, the following acts
are examples of this oppression, fraud and/or malice  a.     
Defendants,
collectively, conspires to make Plaintiff’s home environment so miserable and
unbearable that she was forced to move away, and the conduct described in
paragraph 12 and its subparts were acts designed to further that conspiracy and
constructively evict Plaintiff from her home.  b.     
Each
of the defendants acted with oppression and malice by failing, refusing or
delaying necessary maintenance, repairs, and replacements that, as landlords
and an agents of the landlords, they had duty to provide. Examples of this
conduct are described in particularity in paragraphs 12(a), 12(g), 12(h), and
12(j).  c.     
Mrs.
Sypien and Ms. Shaffer acted with oppression and malice by creating financial
difficulties and uncertainties, which were designed to and had the affect of
instilling fear of the initiation of eviction proceedings. Examples of this
conduct are described in particularity in paragraphs 12(b), 12(c), 12(d),
12(e), and 12(f).  d.     
Each
of the defendants acted with oppression and malice by encouraging or, at a
minimum, permitting Mr. Stewart, who was Mrs. Shaffer’s son in law, to engage
in the conduct alleged in paragraphs 12(i), 12(k), 12(l), 12(m), 12(o) to
12(v).  e.     
Mr.
Sapien acted with malice when violating Plaintiff’s privacy and trespassing as
described in paragraph 12(n).  Moreover,
Defendants' conduct, in which they placed their own economic gain and self-
interest above their obligations to Plaintiff and attempted to exclude
Plaintiff from her home and personal possessions, constitutes fraud, malice and
oppression sufficient to justify an award of punitive damages. As a result of
Defendants' outrageous conduct, Plaintiff is entitled to recover damages for
the sake of example and by way of punishing Defendants.  (SAC
pp. 8–9.) Paragraph 12 of the SAC, which the above quoted paragraph 19 makes
frequent reference to, lists by date “[s]pecific instances of [Defendants’]
violations [of The City Of Los Angeles Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance, Los
Angeles, Cal. Mun. Code § 45.33, et seq.].” (Id. at p. 3.)  Moving
Parties argue that “the allegations in the SAC fail to reflect facts
showing Defendants' actions and intentions that may point to oppression, fraud
or malice as opposed to some level of negligence” and do “not sufficient[ly]
allege punitive damages with the requisite particularity.” (Motion p. 4,
emphasis original.)  However,
each allegation about Moving Parties’ intentions to act with oppression or
malice in each subpart of paragraph 19 references all or part of paragraph 12.
And so while paragraph 19, read in isolation, may contain only “conclusory
characterizations” about Moving Parties’ intentions, does not allege sufficient
facts as are required to support a claim for punitive damages, and does not
plead punitive damages with the required specificity, when read in conjunction
with paragraph 12 and in the context of the SAC as a whole, we reach a
different conclusion. Paragraph 12 contains specific factual allegations. Each
subpart of paragraph 12 describes a certain incident between Plaintiff and
Defendants that Plaintiff alleges constituted harassment, identifies which
Defendants were involved in what way, and specifies when such incident
occurred. By referencing paragraph 12, each subpart of paragraph 19 anchors and
supports its broad allegations about Defendants’ intentions with specific
factual allegations about their actions. Thus, we disagree with Moving Parties’
objection that the SAC fails to plead facts pointing to oppression, fraud, or
malice, and we disagree with Moving Parties’ objection that the SAC does not
plead punitive damages with sufficient particularity. For
example, subpart b of paragraph 19 regards maintenance, repairs, and
replacements in the Apartment and, in support of its charge of oppression and
malice by each of the Defendants, it references subparts a, g, h, and j of
paragraph 12. These subparts of paragraph 12 describe (1) an incident in 2018
when Plaintiff was locked out of the garage because her requests for a replacement
garage door remote control were ignored, (2) an incident occurring on two
occasions in October 2020 when Plaintiff’s requests for service on the fire
alarm and carbon monoxide alarm were ignored, (3) an incident in October and
November 2020 when Plaintiff’s requests for dishwasher maintenance were
ignored, and (4) a similar incident in January 2021 when Plaintiff’s request
for dishwasher maintenance was ignored. As far as which Defendants are
specifically alleged to be responsible for these incidents, the SAC earlier charges
“[all] Defendants individually and collectively” of “[f]ailing to perform
necessary repairs and maintenance.” (SAC p. 3.) Thus, the SAC alleges that, and
describes examples of specific incidents in which, all Defendants, individually
and collectively, failed to, refused to, or delayed maintenance, repairs, and
replacements that were needed in the Apartment despite Plaintiff having
notified Defendants of the Apartment’s specific service needs and despite their
duty to provide such maintenance, repairs, or replacements as Plaintiff’s
landlords or as agents of her landlord. The SAC alleges that such conduct
evidences oppression and malice. We agree. Like the residential tenant in Stoiber
v. Honeychuck, supra, 101 Cal.App.3d 903 at 920, Plaintiff may seek
punitive damages based on her specific factual allegations that Defendants had
actual knowledge of defective conditions in the Apartment because of her
requests for maintenance and based on her more general allegation that, by
failing to remedy the defects in spite of this actual knowledge, they “acted
with oppression and malice.” (SAC p. 9.) Thus, like the court in Stoiber v.
Honeychuck, supra, at 920, we similarly conclude that Plaintiff has
adequately pled allegations that may support a claim for punitive damages. Accordingly,
this court DENIES the Motion.   Dated:   June 18, 2024                                                             _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon.
Eric HarmonJudge
of the Superior Court
