 Case Number:  22STCV36161    Hearing Date:   April 9, 2024    Dept:  29 Motions to be Relieved as Counsel, filed by Plaintiffs’
Counsel Joseph D. Ryan.
 
Tentative
The motions are granted.
Background
On November 15, 2022, Jorge Samayoa, Carlos Gonzalez,
and Carlos Rosales Cruz (“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint relating to a motor
vehicle incident on December 8, 2020, involving Defendant Kelvin Guerra Montes
and Does 1 through 20.
On March 8, 2024, Joseph D. Ryan filed three
motions to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiffs. No opposition has been filed.

Legal
Standard
The court may order that an attorney be changed or
substituted at any time before or after judgment or final determination upon
request by either client or attorney and after notice from one to the other.
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 284(b).) An attorney is permitted to withdraw where
conflicts between the attorney and client make it unreasonable to continue the
representation. (See Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct 3-700(C)(1).) “The
determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as counsel lies
within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v.
Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.)   
 
An application to be relieved as counsel must be made on
Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion) (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(a)), MC-052 (Declaration) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.136(c)), and MC-053 (Proposed Order) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e)).   
 
Further, the requisite forms must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362(d).) The court may delay effective date of the order relieving
counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client has
been filed with the court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) 
 
Discussion
Counsel has
filed the requisite forms. Counsel states that Plaintiffs have failed to
communicate and cooperate with Counsel’s office, and due to this lack of
communication, Counsel cannot properly represent the clients. (Ryan Decls., ¶¶
7, 8.) Counsel has provided proof of service on all parties. Counsel confirmed
Plaintiffs’ addresses by telephone. All upcoming hearing dates have been
included in the declaration and order.
The Court finds
Counsel has established good cause to be relieved due to the breakdown in
communication. All substantive and procedural requirements are satisfied.
Accordingly, the
motions are GRANTED.
Conclusion
The motions to
be relieved as counsel are GRANTED. 
The orders are
effective upon filing with the Court of proofs of service showing service of
the signed orders (not merely the minute order) on the Plaintiffs.
Moving counsel
to give notice.