 Case Number:  21STCV37199    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  27 f
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



SHELDON PHILLIPS, et al.                Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ANIE
  KEVORK MIKAELIAN,
 
                   Defendant(s),


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV37199
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF THE PERSON MOST KNOWLEDGEABLE FOR
  FUTURONICS CORPORATION
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
November
  9, 2023



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
          On
October 7, 2021, Plaintiffs Sheldon Phillips and Marta Phillips filed this
action against Defendant Anie Kevork Mikaelian for motor vehicle negligence,
general negligence, and loss of consortium arising from a motor vehicle accident.
          On
August 9, 2023, Defendant filed the instant motion to compel the deposition of
the person most knowledgeable for Futronics Corporation. 
On October
30, 2023, Plaintiffs opposed.
On October
31, 2023, non-party Futronics filed an opposition.
On November
3, 2023, Defendant replied.
II.      LEGAL
STANDARDS
“Any party
may obtain discovery . . . by taking in California the oral deposition of any
person, including any party to the action. The person deposed may be a natural
person, an organization such as a public or private corporation, a partnership,
an association, or a governmental agency.” (C.C.P., § 2025.010.)
“If the
deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe
with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In
that event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of
its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most
qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any
information known or reasonably available to the deponent.” (C.C.P., §
2025.230.) 
C.C.P., §
1987.1, subd. (a), states, “[i]f a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity
to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders.  In addition, the court may make any
other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.”  
“A written
notice and all moving papers supporting a motion to compel an answer to a
deposition question or to compel production of a document or tangible thing
from a nonparty deponent must be personally served on the nonparty deponent
unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by mail or electronic
service at an address or electronic service address specified on the deposition
record.”  (C.R.C., Rule 3.1346.) 
          A
motion to compel compliance with a deposition notice that requests production
of documents “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”  (C.C.P., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(1).)
A motion to
compel deposition must be accompanied by a good faith meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040. 
(C.C.P., § 2025.480, subd. (b).) The declaration must state facts
showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each
issue presented in the motion. (C.C.P., § 2016.040.)
III.     DISCUSSION
          Defendant
requests an order: (1) compelling Futronics’ PMK to attend his or her
deposition within fifteen days of the Court’s order; and (2) imposing monetary
sanctions in the amount of $3,893.00 against Futronics and its corporate
counsel, Bin Li, jointly and severally, to compensate Defendant for the costs
and attorneys’ fees associated with bringing this motion. Defendant argues that
the requested deposition is relevant as it relates to Plaintiff’s loss of past
income and significant future earning capacity as a result of injuries he
claims to have sustained in the subject automobile accident. In response
to Form Interrogatories 8.1 –
8.8., Plaintiff claims that he will lose hundreds of thousands of dollars in
income. Defendant asserts it is necessary to conduct the deposition of the PMK
for Futronics Corporation in order to assess the merits of Plaintiff’s
significant claims for loss of past earnings and future earning capacity.
          In
opposition, Plaintiffs argue that the instant motion is in direct violation of
the Court’s August 25, 2023 minute order which stated as follows:
“Discovery
remains tied to the current trial date, not the new trial date, with the
exception of previously designated experts for whom the discovery cut-off date
will be the new trial date. The court cannot reopen discovery by ex parte
application absent an agreement. Moving party to give notice.”
The prior trial date was October
5, 2023, and discovery motions are to be heard 15 days before the date
initially set for trial. Plaintiffs state that despite the discovery cut off
date of September 5, 2023, Defendant attempted to coerce the attorney for
Futronics, Bin Li, to produce a PMK witness for deposition beyond the
established discovery cut-off date by sending 15 emails from September 6, 2023,
through September 22, 2023.
          Futronic’s
opposition largely reiterates the arguments made by Plaintiffs.
          In
reply, Defendant requests that the Court not consider Plaintiffs’ opposition on
the ground that it was untimely filed. Where it should have been filed 9 court
days prior to the hearing date on October 27, 2023, here, it was filed on
October 30, 2023. Defendant asserts that she will be filing a separate ex parte
application to reopen discovery for the limited purpose of conducting the
deposition of Futronics Corporation’s person most knowledgeable and the
examination of Sheldon Phillips by a psychologist.
          Defendant
does not dispute that the hearing on this motion is untimely as it comes after
the initial trial date. Plaintiff provides no authority for the Court to
“overlook the procedural irregularities.” Thus, the motion is denied. 
          The
Court declines to award monetary sanctions.
IV.     CONCLUSION
Defendant’s motion to compel the
deposition of the person most knowledgable for Futronics Corporation is denied.
Moving party to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
Dated
this 9th Day of November
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 