 Case Number:  22STCV00841    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



Isidro Jovel Guerra Alvarado; Kenia Judith Quijada Lopez, 
                   Plaintiffs,
          vs.
 
Jessee
  Lee Ford, et al. and DOES 10 to 100, inclusive,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22STCV00841
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL  
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
November
  13, 2023



 
“To
ensure the prompt disposition of civil cases, the dates assigned for a trial
are firm. All parties and their counsel must regard the date set for trial as
certain.” (California Rule of Court, Rule 3.1332(a).) “A party seeking a
continuance of the date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or
stipulated to by the parties, must make the request for a continuance by a
noticed motion or an ex parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this
division, with supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or
application as soon as reasonably practical once the necessity for the
continuance is discovered.” (California Rule of Court, Rule 3.1332(b).)
 
“Although
continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits. The court may grant a continuance only on an
affirmative showing of good cause requiring the continuance. Circumstances that
may include good cause include:  
 
(1) The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances; 
(2) The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;
(3) The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;
(4) The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice;
(5) The addition
of a new party if:
(A) The new
party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for
trial; or
(B) The other
parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial in regard to the new party's involvement in the case;
(6) A party's
excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts; or
(7) A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”
 
(California Rule
of Court, Rule 3.1332(c), emphasis added.)
          
California
Rule of Court, Rule 3.1332(d) sets forth other factors that are relevant in
determining whether to grant a continuance, including:
 
(1)
 The proximity of the trial date;
(2)
 Whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay
of trial due to any party;
(3)
 The length of the continuance requested;
(4)  The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance;
(5)
 The prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the
continuance;
(6)  If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay;
(7)  The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials;
(8)
 Whether trial counsel is engaged in another trial;
(9)
 Whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance;
(10)
 Whether the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the
trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and
(11)  Any
other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application.
 
 
Here, Defendants Jesse Lee Ford and
Cinmark Company, LP request a trial continuance to June 20, 2024. Defendants’ counsel
attests that a calendaring issue delayed independent medical examinations of
both Plaintiffs and thus, the parties postponed the mediation. (Decl. Elig, ¶¶
6,7.) The parties are in the process of scheduling another mediation. (Id.
at ¶ 9.) 
The court grants the motion to continue
the trial date to June 20, 2024. 
Moving party to give notice.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that
if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the
opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the
matter.  Unless you receive a submission
from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might
appear at the hearing to argue.
      Dated this 9h
day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 