 Case Number:  22STCV27494    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA  
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES -
CENTRAL DISTRICT 
 



Reuben Creech, et al.,  
Plaintiff(s), 
vs. 
 
Claribel Reyes, 
 
Defendant(s). 


) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 


      CASE NO.: 22STCV27494 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: Motion to
  be Relieved as Counsel 
   
 
Dept. 27 
1:30 p.m. 
November 9, 2023 



 
                   
I.INTRODUCTION 
 
On ¿August 24, 2022, Plaintiffs ¿Reuben
Creech and Frankeska Wilson (“Plaintiffs”) filed this action against Defendant
¿Clairbel Reyes (“Defendant”). This matter arises out of a motor vehicle
accident. Trial is currently scheduled for ¿February 21, 2024. ¿Counsel for
Plaintiff Frankeska Wilson filed the current Motion to be Relieved as Counsel
on September 6, 2023. The motion is unopposed.  

 
                
II.LEGAL STANDARD 
 
The court may
order that an attorney be changed or substituted at any time before or after
judgment or final determination upon request by either client or attorney and
after notice from one to the other.   (Code of Civ. Proc., §
284, subd. (b).)  An attorney is permitted to withdraw where
conflicts between the attorney and client make it unreasonable to continue the
representation.  (See Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct 3-700(C)(1).)  “The
determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as counsel lies
within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th
1128, 1133.)   
 
An application
to be relieved as counsel must be made on Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice
of Motion and Motion) (Cal. Rules of Court 3.1362(a)), MC-052 (Declaration)
(Cal. Rules of Court 3.1362(c)), and MC-053 (Proposed Order) (Cal. Rules of
Court 3.1362(e)).
 
Further, the
requisite forms must be served on the client and all other parties who have
appeared in the case.  (Cal. Rules of Court 3.1362(d).)  The court
may delay effective date of the order relieving counsel until proof of service
of a copy of the signed order on the client has been filed with the
court.  (Cal. Rules of Court 3.1362(e).) 
 
             
III.DISCUSSION 
 
Plaintiff’s Frankeska Wilson’s
counsel, G. Seth Mitchell and the Barnes Firm, L.C., moves to be relieved as
counsel. 
In the Declaration in Support of
Attorneys’ Motion to be Relieved as Counsel, Counsel indicates that there has
been a breakdown of the attorney-client relationship. 
 
When the initial motion was filed
on September 6, 2023, the next scheduled hearing was for an Informal Discovery
Conference. At the IDC on September 8, 2023, the issues were not resolved.
Additionally, the September 8th Minute Order indicates that the
current motion was filed, and that Defendant’s counsel complied with the IDC
obligation and could proceed with a Motion to Compel Further Responses. As of
November 6, 2023, the Motion to Compel Further is scheduled for November 15,
2023.[1] 
 
Additionally, in Counsel’s declaration, Counsel indicates
that the client was served via mail at the client’s last known address.
However, the attorney has been unable to confirm that the address is current
despite using various efforts to determine a current address. (Dec. ¶ 3b(2).)
 
Counsel has provided all the required documents under
California Rules of Court Rule 3.1362. The Proof of Service filed concurrently
with the motion indicates that the motion was served via mail and email. The
Court finds that Plaintiff’s counsel has provided sufficient reasoning as to
why withdrawal is appropriate. However, as there is currently a motion to
compel further scheduled for November 15, 2023, the Court finds that Plaintiff
will suffer prejudice if counsel is to withdraw right before a discovery motion
is scheduled. To avoid prejudice, Counsel’s withdrawal should be delayed until
after that November 15 hearing.  
 
Therefore, the Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED
as of December 1, 2023. 
 
Moving party to give
notice. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on
this tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions
provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that
if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the
opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the
matter.  Unless you receive a submission from all other parties in the
matter, you should assume that others might appear at the hearing to
argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating
submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final
order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
Dated this 9th day of November
2023 
 



  


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian   
Judge of the Superior
  Court 
 


[1]
The Motion to Compel Further has not been filed with the
Court as of November 6, 2023.

