 Case Number:  21STCV26396    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



VAHE KARAPET, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
NEGDEH
  YAGHOUBIAN, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV26396
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
November
  9, 2023



 
BACKGROUND
On July 19, 2021, Plaintiff Vahe
Karapet (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Nejdeh Yaghoubian
(“Yaghoubian”), Lyft, Inc., a Delaware Corporation (“Lyft”), Nancy Gaignard (“Gaignard”),
and Does 1 through 50 for motor vehicle and negligence arising out of an
automobile accident that occurred on August 2, 2019. Plaintiff alleges she was
a passenger in a Lyft vehicle driven by Gaignard when Yaghoubian weaved through
traffic in his vehicle and side swiped Gaignard’s vehicle. 
On May 31, 2023, Lyft moved to compel
arbitration and stay judicial proceedings pending the completion of
arbitration. On July 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition arguing that Lyft
waived its right to arbitrate. On July 26, 2023, Lyft filed a reply. 
At a hearing on August 2, 2023, the
Court stated that Lyft’s motion “refers to a declaration that has not been
provided and refers to corresponding exhibits that are attached to the motion
instead of the absent declaration. Among the exhibits is the purported
arbitration agreement which provides that the Federal Arbitration Act is the
controlling law.” (8-02-23 Minute Order, pp. 1-2.) The Court ordered that Lyft was
to file and serve the missing declaration by August 7, 2023. (Ibid.) 
Subsequently, on August 18, 2023,
Plaintiff filed a supplemental opposition requesting that the Court continue
Lyft’s motion to compel arbitration until after Indian Harbor’s motion to
intervene was heard. In that supplemental opposition, Plaintiff also requested
that, in the case that the Court compels arbitration as to Lyft, arbitration
proceedings should be stayed pending the resolution of the claims in this case
against Gaignard and Yaghoubian, on the grounds that the arbitration provision
Lyft relies on does not extend to claims against non-Lyft drivers. 
At a hearing on September 7, 2023, the
Court continued Lyft’s motion to compel arbitration to October 16, 2023, for
the Court to first hear Indian Harbor’s motion to intervene. 
On October 16, 2023, the Court granted
Indian Harbor’s motion to intervene on behalf of Gaignard and continued Lyft’s
motion to compel arbitration to November 9, 2023. The Court granted Indian
Harbor leave to file an opposition to the motion to compel and Lyft leave to
file a reply. To date, Indian Harbor did not file an opposition and, thus, Lyft
has not filed an additional reply. 
LEGAL STANDARD FOR A MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
When seeking to compel arbitration of a
plaintiff’s claims, the defendant must allege the existence of an agreement to arbitrate.  (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001)
88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)  The burden
then shifts to the plaintiff to prove the falsity of the agreement.  (Ibid.) 
After the Court determines that an agreement to arbitrate exists, it
then considers objections to its enforceability.  (Ibid.) 
The Court must grant a motion to compel arbitration unless the defendant
has waived the right to compel arbitration or if there are grounds to revoke
the arbitration agreement.  (Ibid.; Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
Under the Federal Arbitration Act
(“FAA”), an agreement to arbitrate “shall be valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable.” (9 U.S.C. § 2). The United States Supreme Court has broadly
interpreted the FAA.¿Under this interpretation, the statute is to be read “as insisting that the ‘transaction’ in fact ‘involve’
interstate commerce, even if the parties did not contemplate an interstate
commerce connection.” (Allied-Bruce Terminix Companies, Inc. v. Dobson (1995)
513 U.S. 265, 28).¿ “The statute’s language, background, and structure establish that section
2’s ‘involving commerce’ words are the functional equivalent of the phrase ‘affecting commerce,’ which normally signals Congress’ intent
to exercise its commerce power to the full[.]” (Id. at p. 265.) “Congress
Commerce Clause power ‘may be exercised in individual cases without showing any
specific effect upon interstate commerce’ if in the aggregate the economic
activity in question would represent ‘a general practice ... subject to federal
control.’ [Citations.] Only that general practice need bear on interstate
commerce in a substantial way.” (Citizens Bank v. Alafabco, Inc. (2003) 539
U.S. 52, 56-57.)¿ 
An arbitration clause is governed by
the FAA if the agreement is a contract “evidencing a transaction involving
commerce.” (9 U.S.C. § 2.) Courts “broadly construe” this phrase, because the
FAA “embodies Congress’ intent to provide for the enforcement of arbitration
agreements within the full reach of the Commerce Clause.” (Giuliano v. Inland
Empire Personnel, Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1286.)
DISCUSSION
I. No Additional Declaration Necessary 
 Lyft has not filed an additional declaration, as requested
by the Court at the August 2, 2023 hearing. (8-02-23 Minute Order, pp. 1-2.) However,
the Court finds that Lyft’s moving papers did in fact contain the declarations
of Quinn Graham and Katye Coombs, which laid the foundation for the exhibits
containing the purported arbitration agreement. Thus, no additional
declarations are necessary and the Court moves on to the merits of the motion.
 
II. An Arbitration Agreement Exists Between Plaintiff and Lyft
Lyft contends it is entitled to an order compelling arbitration for
the following reasons: (1) Plaintiff agreed to arbitrate all disputes with Lyft
by accepting Lyft’s Terms of Service (TOS) on multiple occasions before and
after the accident; (2) it is well- accepted that assent to TOS prior to
gaining access to a service is sufficient and binding to enforce a contractual
arbitration clause; and (3) Plaintiff’s claims fall squarely within the scope
of the agreement.  Thus the Court must
enforce the agreement and require arbitration and stay the action pending the
outcome of arbitration. 
As stated above, the first step in analyzing a motion to compel
arbitration is to determine whether an arbitration agreement exists.  Lyft attaches Exhibits 1 through 3,
containing the Terms of Service accepted by Plaintiff in order to use the Lyft
application, as evidence of the arbitration agreement. (Coombs Decl. ¶
12.) Though Plaintiff accepted
multiple TOS agreements, the terms pertinent to arbitration remained identical
in each. The agreements stated the following: 
“PLEASE BE ADVISED: THIS AGREEMENT CONTAINS
PROVISIONS THAT GOVERN HOW CLAIMS YOU AND LYFT HAVE AGAINST EACH OTHER CAN BE
BROUGHT (SEE SECTION 17 BELOW). THESE PROVISIONS WILL, WITH LIMITED EXCEPTION,
REQUIRE YOU TO SUBMIT CLAIMS YOU HAVE AGAINST LYFT TO BINDING AND FINAL
ARBITRATION . . . By entering into this Agreement, and/or by using or accessing
the Lyft Platform you expressly acknowledge that you understand this Agreement
(including the dispute resolution and arbitration provisions in Section 17) and
accept all of its terms. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THE TERMS AND
CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT, YOU MAY NOT USE OR ACCESS THE LYFT PLATFORM OR
ANY OF THE SERVICES PROVIDED THROUGH THE LYFT PLATFORM” (Coombs Decl. ¶
12 Ex. 2 at p.1.) 
The actual arbitration provision, entitled “DISPUTE
RESOLUTION AND ARBITRATION AGREEMENT” in bold and all caps, stated the following: 
“YOU AND LYFT
MUTUALLY AGREE TO WAIVE OUR RESPECTIVE RIGHTS TO RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES IN A
COURT OF LAW BY A JUDGE OR JURY AND AGREE TO RESOLVE ANY DISPUTE BY
ARBITRATION, as set forth below.” (See Ex. 2 at ¶17(a).)
Given
the proof of these terms, the Court finds that Lyft has satisfied its burden of
proving the existence of an arbitration agreement between the parties. Now,
Plaintiff must demonstrate that the agreement is unenforceable. 
However,
first, Plaintiff contends in opposition that Lyft has waived its right to
arbitrate. 
III. Lyft has Not Waived its Right to Arbitrate
Plaintiff
contends that Lyft has waived its right to arbitrate due to its unreasonable
delay in compelling arbitration and its failure to file a petition to compel
arbitration at or before the time it filed its Answer.
Lyft was served with this
action on September 24, 2021 and filed its answer 14 months later, on November
30, 2022, in which it pled as its Sixteenth Affirmative Defense that Plaintiff
entered into a binding arbitration agreement with Lyft at the time of the
incident. Given that by this time the parties had initiated written discovery,
Plaintiff contends that the delay in compelling arbitration amounted to a
waiver of the right to arbitrate. 
The Court finds that Lyft
has not waived its right to arbitrate on the grounds of unreasonable delay.
Plaintiff cannot meet is heavy burden of proving Lyft has acted inconsistently
with its right to arbitrate. Lyft has not invoked the litigation machinery thus
far by, for example, making discovery requests. Thus, Lyft’s delay in
compelling arbitration alone does not constitute actions sufficient to
demonstrate a waiver of its right to arbitrate. 
Additionally, Plaintiff
contends that, pursuant to CCP § 1281.5, Lyft has waived its right to compel
arbitration because the instant motion to compel arbitration was not brought
until more than 20 months after the Complaint was served and more than six
months after Lyft filed a responsive pleading. However, as Lyft contends in its
reply, this section is applicable only to parties attempting to enforce a claim
of lien, which Lyft is not. 
IV. The Presence of a Third
Party Defendant Does Not Preempt Arbitration Under the FAA
Plaintiff contends that,
pursuant to CCP § 1281.2(c), the Court must deny the motion to compel
arbitration if it finds that “[a] party to the arbitration agreement is also a
party to a pending court action or special proceeding with a third party,
arising out of the same transaction or series of related transactions and there
is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.” 
Here, Plaintiff has alleged
negligence and motor vehicle personal injury against Lyft, its driver (Gaignard),
and a third party, non-Lyft driver (Yaghoubian). Thus, Plaintiff contends, if
the claims were to proceed to arbitration, there is the possibility that the
claims between Plaintiff and Lyft and Gaignard are decided in a manner that is
inconsistent with the claims between Plaintiff and Yaghoubian. 
However, the arbitration agreements in this case
are governed by the FAA, per the terms of the agreements. On application of a
signatory, the FAA mandates arbitration when a valid agreement exists. (Dean
Witter Reynolds, Inc. v. Byrd (1985) 470 U.S. 213, 218.)  CCP section 1281.2 does not apply when the
FAA’s rules govern. (See Rodriguez v. Am. Techs., Inc. (2006) 136
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1115-16.)   Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s argument is rejected. Lyft is thus entitled to enforce the
arbitration clause. Therefore, Lyft’s motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. 
The Court will hear from the parties regarding
the issue of a stay, unless the parties reach an agreement on that issue.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
Dated
this 9th day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 