 Case Number:  22STCV30547    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



Robert
  Williamson,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
GLS US FREIGHT, Inc,, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


   
  CASE NO.: 22STCV30547
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES
  TO FORM INTERROGATORIES NOS. 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, and 17.1, SET ONE
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
November 13, 2023



 
 
 
MOVING PARTY:            Plaintiff
Robert Williamson
RESPONDING PARTY:    None
 
I.         BACKGROUND
This is a personal injury action. On September 19, 2022, Plaintiff
Robert Williamson (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants GLS US
Freight, Inc. (“GLS”), Francisco Escalante (“Escalante”), and Does 1 through
20, alleging causes of action for motor vehicle and general negligence.
On September 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to
compel further responses to Form Interrogatories Nos. 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, and 17.1,
Set One against Defendant Escalante. The motion is unopposed.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
The following rules apply to responses
to interrogatories. 
“(a) Each answer in a response to
interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the information
reasonably available to the responding party permits.
(b) If an interrogatory cannot be
answered completely, it shall be answered to the extent possible.
(c) If the responding party does not
have personal knowledge sufficient to respond fully to an interrogatory, that
party shall so state, but shall make a reasonable and good faith effort to
obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or organizations,
except where the information is equally available to the propounding party.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220.) 
In addition, “[i]f an objection is made
to an interrogatory or to a part of an interrogatory, the specific ground for
the objection shall be set forth clearly in the response.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.240, subd. (b).)
“On receipt of a response to
interrogatories, the propounding party may move for an order compelling a
further response if the propounding party deems that any of the following
apply: ¶ (1) An answer to a particular interrogatory is evasive or incomplete.
¶ (2) An exercise of the option to produce documents under Section 2030.230 is
unwarranted or the required specification of those documents is inadequate. ¶
(3) An objection to an interrogatory is without merit or too general.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (a).)  
Similarly, “[o]n receipt of a response
to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party
may move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the
demanding party deems that any of the following apply: ¶ (1) A statement of
compliance with the demand is incomplete. ¶ (2) A representation of inability
to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive. ¶ (3) An objection in the
response is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(a).) “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying
the discovery sought by the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd.
(b)(1).)  
Motions to compel further responses to
interrogatories must be brought within 45 days of service of a verified
response, supplemental verified response, or on a date to which the propounding
and responding parties have agreed to in writing; otherwise, the propounding
party waives the right to compel further responses. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2030.300, subd. (c).)
“The court shall impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party,
person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a
further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300,
subd. (d).)
“If a party then fails to obey an order
compelling further response to interrogatories, the court may make those orders
that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence
sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010). In lieu of, or in addition to, that sanction, the court may impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (e).)
III.      DISCUSSION
The
FROGs at issue asked Defendant Escalante the following.
·        
FROG
No. 2.6: This
interrogatory seeks the identification of Responding Party’s current employer
and identifying information for each employer from five years before the
incident to present.
·        
FROG
No. 2.7: This
interrogatory seeks Defendant’s educational history and degrees received.
·        
FROG
No. 2.8: This
interrogatory asks whether Defendant has ever been convicted of a felony and
seeks all identifying information related to a felony conviction.
·        
FROG
No. 17.1: This
interrogatory asks for identification of each response to Requests for
Admissions that is not an unqualified admission, facts on which the Responding
Party bases his response, and the contact information of all persons who have
knowledge of the same facts.
Plaintiff contends he propounded Form Interrogatories, Set One, on
Escalante on October 27, 2022. (Declaration of Kasey Diba, ¶ 3.) After meeting
and conferring regarding Escalante’s initial responses, Escalante provided a
set of supplemental responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories on April 13,
2023. (Diba Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. C.) Plaintiff sent Escalante a meet and confer
letter regarding deficiencies in Escalante’s supplemental responses but
Escalante has not responded. (Diba Decl., ¶¶ 10-12, Exs. F-H.)
Plaintiff contends he has not received any verified responses to date
to Form Interrogatories Nos. 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, and 17.1 despite Escalante’s
affirmation that he would provide supplemental responses by May 12, 2023. Plaintiff
also contends that Escalante’s objection that the interrogatories are “not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence” is
improper since they have been approved as to form pursuant to CCP section
2033.710; and Escalante fails to identify how identifying information related
to Escalante is not calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.  Plaintiff further contends
Escalante’s response to Form Interrogatory 17.1 is improper and incomplete as
Escalante only identifies RFA No. 6 while Nos. 4, 5, 7, and 8 are not
unqualified admissions.
First, the Court construes Escalante’s lack of opposition to
Plaintiff’s motion as a concession that Plaintiff’s arguments are meritorious.
(Holden v. City of San Diego (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 404, 418; C. Opposing
the Motion—and Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before
Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶ 9:105.10.)
Second, the Form
Interrogatories Plaintiff served are on a standard form in which
Interrogatories have been approved by the Judicial Council under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2033.710, and the
requested information is directly relevant to the case at hand. 
Third, Form Interrogatories Nos 17.1 is unambiguous, requiring a
discussion of each response to RFAs that is “not an unqualified admission.”
Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to
compel further responses to Form Interrogatories Nos. 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, and 17.1,
Set One.
As for monetary sanctions, the Court will grant the request in the
reduced amount of $ 2,206.41, comprised of 4.0 hours preparing the motion and
0.5 hours for appearing at the hearing on the motion, multiplied by the hourly
rate of $475.00, plus $61.65 for the reservation fee and $7.26 for the filing
fee.

IV.      CONCLUSION
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to
Form Interrogatories Nos. 2.6, 2.7, 2.8, and 17.1, Set One. Defendant Escalante
must provide further code-compliant verified responses within 20 days of the
Court’s order.
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions in the
reduced amount of $2,206.41. Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel must pay said
monetary sanctions within 20 days of the Court’s order.
Moving party to
give notice.  
            Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit
on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court’s
website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be
advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others might
appear at the hearing to argue.  If the
Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on this
tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at
its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off
calendar.
     
Dated this 9th day of November 2023
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian
Judge of the
  Superior Court




 
 
 