  Case Number:  20STCV12315    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



SEDGWICK CLAIMS MANAGEMENT, INC., et al.
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
INDIGO
  CONSTRUCTION CORP, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 20stcv12315
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
MOTION
  TO STRIKE DOE AMENDMENT #4
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
November
  9, 2023



 
          
BACKGROUND
On March 27, 2020, Plaintiffs Gaudencio
Romero, Alberto Reyes Mena, and Sedgwick Claims Management Services, Inc. (“Plaintiffs”)
filed this action against Defendants Indigo Construction Corp. (“Indigo”),
Calico Construction, Aragon Glendale Properties Corp. (“Aragon Glendale”), and
Does 1 through 20, alleging 1) general negligence and 2) premises liability for
injuries arising from an accident at a construction jobsite that occurred on April
16, 2019. 
The Complaint was amended on May 25,
2023 to add Aragon LA Construction Mgmt. Corp. (“Aragon LA”) as Doe #4. 
On October 18, 2023, Aragon LA, along
with Aragon Glendale, Indigo, BLF, Inc. Larrabure Framing, and Cal-Coast
Construction Specialties, Inc., brought the instant motion to strike the Doe #4
amendment. On October 27, 2023, Plaintiffs filed an opposition. On November 2,
2023, a reply was filed. 
LEGAL STANDARD
California law authorizes a party’s
motion to strike matter from an opposing party’s pleading if it is irrelevant,
false, or improper.  (CCP §§ 435;
436(a).)  Motions may also target
pleadings or parts of pleadings which are not filed or drawn in conformity with
applicable laws, rules or orders.  (CCP §
436(b).)  A motion to strike is used to
address defects that appear on the face of a pleading or from judicially
noticed matter but that are not grounds for a demurrer.  (Pierson v Sharp Memorial Hospital
(1989) 216 Cal.App.3d 340, 342; see also City & County of San Francisco
v Strahlendorf (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1911, 1913 (motion may not be based on
a party's declaration or factual representations made by counsel in the motion
papers).)  In particular, a motion to
strike can be used to attack the entire pleading or any part thereof – in other
words, a motion may target single words or phrases, unlike demurrers.  (Warren v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe
Railway Co. (1971) 19 Cal.App.3d 24, 40.) 
California’s policy of liberal construction applies to motions to
strike.  (CCP § 452; see also Duffy v.
Campbell (1967) 250 Cal.App.2d 662, 666 (noting that courts must resolve
all reasonable doubts in favor of the pleading when considering a motion to
strike).)  The Code of Civil Procedure
also authorizes the Court to act on its own initiative to strike matters,
empowering the Court to enter orders striking matter “at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper.” 
(CCP § 436.) 
CCP § 474 provides, “When the plaintiff
is ignorant of the name of a defendant, he must state that fact in the
complaint, or the affidavit if the action is commenced by affidavit, and such
defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name, and when
his true name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding must be amended
accordingly …”  
“The general rule is that an amended
complaint that adds a new defendant does not relate back to the date of filing
the original complaint and the statute of limitations is applied as of the date
the amended complaint is filed, not the date the original complaint is
filed.”  (Woo v. Superior Court
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 169, 176.)  “A
recognized exception to the general rule is the substitution under [CCP §] 474
of a new defendant for a fictitious Doe defendant named in the original
complaint as to whom a cause of action was stated in the original complaint… If
the requirements of section 474 are satisfied, the amended complaint
substituting a new defendant for a fictitious Doe defendant filed after the
statute of limitations has expired is deemed filed as of the date the original
complaint was filed.”  (Id.)   “Among the requirements for application of
the section 474 relation-back doctrine is that the new defendant in an amended
complaint be substituted for an existing fictitious Doe defendant named in the
original complaint.”  (Id.) 
CCP § 474 “includes an implicit
requirement that a plaintiff may not ‘unreasonably delay’ his or her filing of
a Doe amendment after learning of defendant's identity” and unreasonable delay
“includes a prejudice element, which requires a showing by the defendant that
he or she would suffer prejudice from plaintiff's delay in filing the Doe
amendment.”  (A.N. v. County of Los
Angeles (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1058, 1066-67.)
MEET AND CONFER
          The parties
sufficiently met and conferred prior to Aragon LA bringing this motion.
(Roberts Decl. paras. 1, 2.) 
DISCUSSION
Aragon LA moves to strike the Doe #4
amendment on the grounds that Plaintiffs delayed amending the Complaint, the
amendment unreasonably burdens Aragon LA without benefiting the case, and
striking the Doe #4 amendment would further the interests of justice. 
Moving Parties’ Arguments
For the following reasons, Aragon LA
contends that Plaintiffs unreasonably delayed in making the Doe #4 amendment: (1)
its identity has been discoverable since this case was filed on March 27, 2020,
as it is a business entity that is searchable through the California state
online business search portal; and (2) on April 22, 2022, Aragon Glendale
provided business records in response to Plaintiffs’ request for production of
documents, set one, containing multiple references to Aragon LA. These records
included a subcontract agreement between Aragon Glendale and Indigo identifying
Aragon LA as the “Owner Representative.” Additionally, on June 7, 2022, Aragon
Glendale supplemented their document production with other business records,
including BATES Nos. ARA002156-ARA002163, identifying Aragon LA. 
Aragon LA also contends that Plaintiffs
lack good faith reasons for including it as a defendant in this action. It
contends that Aragon Glendale has already provided all of the discoverable
evidence that exists and that Aragon LA has nothing more to provide in the way
of documents, witnesses’ names and testimony. Aragon LA also contends that its
inclusion in this case will not alter the insurance coverage in any way because
the policy limits and coverage will remain the same. 
Finally, Aragon LA contends that the
interests of justice will be furthered by striking the Doe #4 amendment because
Plaintiffs would not be harmed and significant harm to Aragon LA would be
avoided. Otherwise, Aragon LA would incur unnecessary, expensive defense costs
on the eve of trial.
Opposing Parties’ Arguments
In opposition, Plaintiffs contend that
Defendants Aragon Glendale, Indigo, and Cal-Coast lack standing to bring this
motion on behalf of Aragon LA. Plaintiffs also contend that all written
discovery and documents produced by Defendants consistently identified Aragon
Glendale as being the owner/builder of the subject premises and the general
contractor that entered into the subcontract for the construction project.
Thus, Plaintiffs contend, they had absolutely no reason to believe Aragon LA
should be a named Defendant in the case until the deposition of Russell
Belifuss on May, 24, 2023. At that deposition, they learned that Belifuss was
employed by Aragon LA as the Senior Project Manager of the construction project
and was “overseeing pretty much everything” on the job site at the time of the
incident. Plaintiffs also learned that Aragon LA acted as a “Management” entity
over Aragon Glendale. Plaintiffs contend they acted diligently and immediately
filed the Doe Amendment to add Aragon LA as a Defendant on May 25, 2023, the
day after the Belifuss deposition. Furthermore, Plaintiffs contend that because
Aragon LA and Aragon Glendale are separate entities, if this motion were
granted and the Court were to find Aragon LA partly liable, it would be unable
to render judgment against Aragon LA resulting in severe prejudice to
Plaintiffs. 
Reply Arguments
In reply, Aragon LA first contends that
it has proper standing to bring this motion as well as the other moving
defendants, who will be impacted by the inclusion of Aragon LA at the eleventh
hour. Next, it argues that Plaintiffs in their opposition simply ignore that
Aragon LA’s identity was produced in discovery responses in the subcontract and
the insurance policy. Furthermore, regarding Plaintiffs’ contention that it did
not learn Aragon LA’s identity until the Belifuss deposition, Aragon LA points
out that it was not subserved until four months after the Belifuss deposition.  Additionally, Aragon LA contends that any
missing discovery is Plaintiffs’ fault because throughout its extensive
discovery thus far, Plaintiffs failed to request any information about the role
of Aragon LA. Finally, Aragon LA contends that it will be prejudiced if the
Court were to deny this motion but that if that were to happen, it is entitled
at the very least to a continuance of the current trial date, as it is rapidly
approaching. 
Analysis
As an initial matter, the Court finds
that Aragon LA has standing to bring this motion as it has been added as a Doe
defendant. 
Next, the Court finds that Plaintiffs
did delay in making the Doe #4 amendment but the delay was not unreasonable.
Therefore, it is unwilling to grant Defendants’ request to strike the
amendment. 
The relevant inquiry when the plaintiff
seeks to substitute a real defendant for one sued fictitiously is what facts
the plaintiff actually knew at the time the original complaint was filed.  (General Motors Corp. v. Sup.Ct.
(1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 580, 588.)  If the
actual knowledge test is satisfied, it is irrelevant that plaintiff was
negligent or failed to exercise reasonable diligence in not having discovered
defendant's identity or liability earlier. 
A plaintiff will not be refused the right to use a Doe pleading even
where the plaintiff's lack of actual knowledge is attributable to plaintiff's
own negligence.  (Grinnell Fire
Protection System Co. v. American Sav. & Loan Ass'n (1986) 183 Cal.App.3d
352, 359.)  Similarly, the fact that
there were means by which plaintiff could have determined the identity or
capacity of a “Doe” defendant when the complaint was filed is irrelevant to
whether plaintiff was “ignorant” of these matters.  (General Motors, supra. at 881.)  That the cause of action accrued earlier than
the date of the Doe amendment does not affect the validity of the amendment
because the Doe defendant is deemed a party from the time of commencement of
the lawsuit.  (McOwen v. Grossman
(2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 937, 943.)
Here, Plaintiffs acknowledge that
Aragon LA was named in the subcontract agreement between Aragon Glendale and
Indigo as “Owner Representative.” However, because Aragon Glendale was named as
the “Owner” of the subject property, Plaintiffs contend they had no reason to
believe Aragon LA should be named as a defendant until the deposition of
Belifuss. The Belifuss deposition clarified for Plaintiffs that Aragon Glendale
was an entirely separate company from Aragon LA, with wholly separate roles
(Aragon LA was the management entity and Aragon Glendale was the owner). (Downey
Decl. ¶¶ 5, 7, Ex. 3 - Belifuss Depo. at 25:14-16, 25:23-25, and 201:17-202:18.)
Therefore, though it is true that Plaintiffs were aware of Aragon LA’s identity
much earlier than they moved to amend the Complaint, they did not have actual
knowledge of the fact that Aragon LA was a separate entity from Aragon Glendale
until the Belifuss deposition, after which they immediately moved to amend the
Complaint. 
Aragon LA contends that it will be
prejudiced by the amendment because it will be forced to expend costs and time
defending itself in this litigation. That is an issue faced by every defendant
litigant and is insufficient grounds to strike the Doe amendment. Nonetheless,
the Court will continue the current trial date to minimize any potential
prejudice to Aragon LA and to ensure all parties have sufficient time to
prepare for trial. 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to
strike the Doe #4 amendment is DENIED and trial will be continued to a date to
be addressed at the hearing on this motion.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
Dated
this 9th day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 