 Case Number:  23SMCV00516    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  I The unopposed motion for leave to amend to add co-defendants
will be GRANTED.  As the court
understands it, the other defendants are all Cucine-related entities owned by
the same human.  This is necessary, in
part, due to the defense strategy of saying that each company is separate and
apart.  Because of that, plaintiff is at
risk of finding itself suing the wrong entity. 
While it is true that plaintiff has alleged alter ego, that is not
enough here.  Of course, if plaintiff
prevails, then likely Solati will be liable for everything.  But Solati has certainly not conceded that
there is alter ego liability here.  Given
that, the court sees significant potential prejudice in denying the
motion.  The court is also aware that
plaintiff has had more than a little bit of trouble in discovery because the
defense has stated that it will provide no information about any entity not
sued.  A stand alone Second Amended
Complaint may be filed within 5 court days. 
Defendants will have the time allowed by law to answer or otherwise
respond to the complaint.
 
There is also a request to serve by substituted
service.  The court cannot quite allow
that.  Plaintiff may serve these entities
through their owner, Solati, but must serve Solati according to Code, not
through Solati’s counsel unless counsel is authorized to accept service of
process.
 
The court has two concerns. 
The first is the trial date. 
Trial is set for March 17, 2025. 
The court does not intend to move the date at this time.  The second is that defense counsel is seeking
to withdraw.  The court will note that if
that occurs, and if the entity defendants do not retain counsel, then the new entities
will be in default and the existing entities will soon have their answers
stricken and be placed in default.  The
defense is well advised to get new counsel on board quickly if the defense
(other than Solati) intends to litigate. 
Obviously Solati may be self-represented.  But that is perhaps not a wise move.  The court also doubts that it will grant the
motion to be relieved until service of the amended complaint is completed.
 