 Case Number:  21STCV41888    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  QUIANA JONES, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV41888  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  October 24, 2023  I. Background Plaintiff, Quiana Jones (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant, Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“Defendant”) for damages arising from allegations that Defendant’s employee closed the bus doors on Plaintiff without warning as Plaintiff was boarding the bus.   At this time, Defendant moves to compel Plaintiff’s physical examination and requests monetary sanctions. Any opposition to the motion was due by October 11, 2023; none was filed.   II. Motion to Compel Physical Examination  CCP § 2032.220 states: In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are satisfied:  The examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or intrusive.  The examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of the residence of the examinee. CCP § 2032.240 provides that, when a plaintiff fails to respond to a demand, the defendant may move for an order compelling a response to the demand and compelling compliance with the request for an exam. On August 2, 2023, Defendant served a demand for physical examination on Plaintiff, setting the physical examination for September 6, 2023 at 2:00 p.m. with Thomas J. Grogan, M.D. (“Dr. Grogan”) at 11704 Wilshire Boulevard, Ste. 11710, Los Angeles, California 90025. On August 22, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel responded to the notice that the September 6, 2023 IME would move forward, but with terms and conditions. (Mot. Exh. 4.) However, Plaintiff did not appear at the September 6, 2023 examination. Defense counsel met and conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel, wherein Plaintiff’s counsel stated he did not know why Plaintiff failed to appear, and that Plaintiff’s counsel would be filing a motion to be relieved as counsel. (Mot. Exh. 5.) Defendant served a second demand for physical examination on September 14, 2023, setting the examination with Dr. Grogan for November 7, 2023 at 10:00 a.m., and subsequently filed the instant motion to compel Plaintiff to appear for the November 7, 2023 examination.  In this case, the evidence shows Defendant properly served Plaintiff with a notice to appear for Plaintiff’s physical exam, and Plaintiff failed to appear. As a personal injury plaintiff, Plaintiff is required to submit to a defense medical examination pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.220. Plaintiff did not oppose the motion or otherwise provide any valid grounds for refusing to appear.  Accordingly, Defendant’s unopposed motion to compel the physical examination of Plaintiff is GRANTED.   The Court orders Plaintiff to appear for a physical examination with Dr. Thomas J. Grogan on November 7, 2023 at 10:00 a.m. at the office located at 11704 Wilshire Boulevard, Ste. 11710, Los Angeles, California 90025. The Court notes that Defendant set forth the proposed scope of the examination, as well as the manner, conditions, and nature of the examination, in the prior notice for physical exam, (Mot., Exh. 7), and that the scope of the examination may not be expanded in connection with the compelled exam.   III. Sanctions CCP § 2032.240(c) requires the court to impose sanctions in connection with a motion to compel physical examination unless the court finds Plaintiff acted with substantial justification or other circumstances make imposition of sanctions unjust.  Plaintiff does not oppose the motion, nor does Plaintiff provide any justification for failing to appear for the properly noticed and agreed upon physical exam. Defendant requests sanctions of $1,935. Defendant is awarded two hours for preparing the unopposed motion at the requested rate of $300 per hour, for a total attorney’s fees award of $600.  Further, Defendant is awarded the $60 motion filing fee and the $375 cancellation fee incurred from Plaintiff’s failure to appear for her examination as costs.  Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel is currently set for November 27, 2023, and Defendant seeks sanctions against Plaintiff only. Sanctions are sought and imposed against Plaintiff. Plaintiff is ordered to pay sanctions to Defendant, by and through counsel of record, in the amount of $1,035, within twenty days.  Defendant is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿ Dated this 23rd day of October 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   