  Case Number:  21STCV42453    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  61 Plaintiff Susan C. Morinaga’s Motion to Vacate Order
Granting Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
Defendants to provide notice.
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 473, subdivision (b) states: 
 
The court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall
be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed
therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall be made
within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken . . . . Notwithstanding any other
requirements of this section, the court shall, whenever an application for
relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper
form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting
default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result
in entry of a default judgment . . . unless the court finds that the default or
dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect. The court shall, whenever relief is granted based on an
attorney's affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory
legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties. 
 
“A party
seeking discretionary relief on the ground of attorney error must demonstrate
that the error was excusable,
since the attorney's negligence is imputed to the client. Inexcusable neglect of an
attorney is usually not a proper basis for granting the client's motion under
section 473. Excusable
neglect
is that neglect
which might have been the act of a reasonably prudent person under the same
circumstances.” (Huh v. Wang (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 1406, 1419, internal
citations and quotation marks omitted.)
 
Plaintiff
Susan C. Morinaga, trustee of the SCM Trust dated July 23, 2010 (Plaintiff)
seeks relief from this court’s order of May 16, 2023, granting Defendants City
of Torrance and Torrance School District’s Motion for Summary Judgment, and the
order entering judgment on June 2, 2023. 
 
Plaintiff
presents her declaration, and that of her former counsel, Stanley Denis,
stating the following facts. Defendants’ motion was granted based on
Plaintiff’s deficient discovery responses. Plaintiff received the discovery at
issue on May 2, 2022. (Morinaga Decl. ¶ 12.) These responses were served by her
counsel on July 22, 2023, because Plaintiff, after multiple discovery
extensions, had not supplied responses of her own by the deadline. (Denis Decl.
¶ 5.) Plaintiff received notice of her counsel’s motion to be relieved as
counsel on July 19, 2022, and had notice that her counsel would not be
available from July 18 to August 5, 2022. (Denis Decl. ¶¶ 11–12.) Plaintiff
emailed her discovery responses to her counsel on July 26, 2022, during this
period of unavailability (Denis Decl. ¶ 13.) This discovery was evidently never
served upon Defendants, despite an inquiry by Plaintiff on September 7, 2022,
to which she received no response from counsel except to note that the date of
the hearing on the motion to be relieved had been continued to September 29,
2022. (Morinaga Decl. ¶ 14.)
 
Denis’
motion to be relieved as counsel was granted on September 29, 2023, and
Plaintiff received notice of the ruling. (Morinaga Decl. ¶ 15.) Plaintiff does
not indicate that she took any action to find other counsel from the date of
receiving notice of Denis’ motion on July 19, 2022, until November 11, 2022,
after receiving an email from Denis providing referrals to three other
attorneys. (Morinaga Decl. ¶ 16.) Plaintiff claims to have corresponded with
one of these attorneys, David Piper, until April 2023, but began looking for
other counsel after Piper failed to return her calls for “several weeks.”
(Morinaga Decl. ¶ 16.)
 
On
December 26, 2022, Plaintiff contracted COVID-19. (Morinaga Decl. ¶ 17.)
Plaintiff was 70 years old at the time, and her recovery was slow, going “well
into February 2023 and beyond.” (Morinaga Decl. ¶ 17.) Plaintiff claims that
she was experiencing “continuing COVID-related health issues, including,
without limitation, breathing problems, low energy, and eventually some memory
loss,” which “lingered into April 2023.” (Morinaga Decl ¶ 17.) 
 
Defendants’
motion for summary judgment was served by mail on January 19, 2023, and
Plaintiff claims to have received it in February. (Morinaga Decl. ¶ 17.)
Plaintiff claims, “During this time period, I did not understand how to respond
to the motion for summary judgment without the assistance of an attorney.”
(Morinaga Decl. ¶ 17.) Plaintiff made two inquiries to Piper for assistance
with the MSJ, one on February 16, 2023, and another in April 2023, both to no
response.(Morinaga Decl. ¶ 17.) Plaintiff states that she learned for the first
time that Denis had not served her discovery responses when she received the
motion for summary judgment. (Morinaga Decl. ¶ 18.)
 
Plaintiff
engaged an attorney on May 10, 2023, to specially appear for her at the hearing
on the summary judgment motion, in the hopes that she would serve the unserved
discovery, respond to the summary judgment motion, and would make a case for
continuing the motion based on the above-stated facts. (Morinaga Decl. ¶ 19.)
During the hearing, Plaintiff’s counsel sought a dismissal without prejudice to
allow a hearing on the merits, and to allow Plaintiff to serve discovery.
(Yoshiba Decl. Exh. G.) Defendants in opposition present evidence that this
counsel earlier sought a stipulation to continue the hearing on the motion,
without success. (Yoshiba Decl. ¶ 12.)
 
Since the
entry of judgment against Plaintiff on June 2, 2023, Plaintiff states she has
consulted with several potential attorneys, including several consultations
with one Jason Stone from June 8 to October 20, 2023. (Morinaga Decl. ¶¶
24–25.) Stone informed Plaintiff that he would not assist her with any motion
to obtain relief from the motion after obtaining a declaration from Denis and a
$977.50 retainer fee from Plaintiff. (Morinaga Decl. ¶ 25.) Plaintiff retained
present counsel in November 2023. (Morinaga Decl. ¶ 26.)
 
Plaintiff’s
evidence discloses that she is not eligible for relief, because the judgment
obtained against her is the result of inexcusable neglect and a consistent
pattern of dilatory response to the litigation. It was Plaintiff’s failure to
provide timely discovery responses that caused the provision of the defective
discovery at issue in Defendants’ dispositive motion. Plaintiff served
different responses only after receiving Denis’ motion to be relieved, and at a
time she knew he was unavailable. After receiving the notice of the motion to
be relieved on July 19, 2022, she took no action to obtain new counsel until
November 1, 2023. Plaintiff’s efforts to obtain further counsel after this
point were evidently minimal. Given this pattern of delay, Plaintiff’s vague
description of the magnitude and duration of her COVID symptoms is insufficient
basis to conclude that her illness had more than a partial and temporary effect
on her ability to comply with her litigation obligations. Indeed, as Defendants
point out, Plaintiff was able to serve new discovery queries April 10, 2023,
while the motion for summary judgment was pending. (Yoshiba Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. D.)
During this time Plaintiff did not serve the discovery that she had previously
given to Denis. The evidence thus suggests that Plaintiff’s illness did not
prevent her from responding to the motion for summary judgment.
 
Plaintiff in reply cites the case Minick v. City of
Petaluma (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 15, 21, for the proposition that a cognitive
impairment may form the basis for a finding of excusable neglect. (Reply at p.
3.) That case involved an attorney whose opposition to a motion for summary
judgment that the trial court thought “was so poorly written that it wondered
if something was seriously amiss.” (Minick, supra, 3 Cal.App.5th
at p. 23.) At the hearing on the motion, the attorney “showed signs of physical
distress during argument and was taken to a hospital by ambulance.” (Id.
at p. 19.) After the motion for summary judgment was granted, the attorney
submitted the following evidence:
Watson explained that he had been suffering
from serious pulmonary and sleep disorders throughout 2013, and that his
symptoms gradually worsened as the year progressed. He sought medical treatment
and was put on a regimen of 12 different medications. In the course of
treatment, he went to the emergency room four times, twice by ambulance; he
consulted with five medical specialists in dozens of appointments; and he
underwent radiological studies, lab studies, ultrasound studies, and sleep
studies. Although Watson's underlying pulmonary condition gradually improved,
he claimed to have suffered side effects from the medications, including
painful spasms, episodes of disorientation, and periods of uncharacteristically
strong responses to stressors.
From August through December 2013—a time
period coinciding with his efforts to prepare summary judgment opposition
papers for Minick—Watson reported that the combination of symptoms from illness
and the side-effects from his medications were at their peak. Although at the
time he felt he was adequately “soldiering on” despite the medical crisis he
was in, Watson declared that, looking back on that period of time, he could see
that his judgment was clouded, his thought processes were not as clear and dispassionately
critical as was normal for him, and he suffered from gaps in his memory. Watson
explained that he was an experienced trial lawyer, and to that point had a
record of considerable success in law practice, but that in 2013, as a result
of his medical condition, his ability to perform as a lawyer fell, and he made
decisions in this case “that were not in keeping with [his] ordinary practice
of law.”
(Id.
at p. 20.) The moving party in Minick thus offered credible and specific
evidence of cognitive impairment, its causes, and its relation to the
preparation of the opposition to a dispositive motion. Plaintiff’s evidence on
this point is framed in generalities, and is framed by a pattern of delay not
associated with any illness. The present case is distinguishable from Minick
because Plaintiff’s illness had no evident impact on her ability to respond to
the motion for summary judgment.   
 
Plaintiff claims that Denis “abandoned” her, and that his
conduct amounts to “positive misconduct” justifying relief. (Motion at pp.
10–11, quoting Daley v. Butte County (1964) 227 Cal.App.2d 380, 392.) No
such misconduct occurred. The failure to serve discovery responses that
Plaintiff unreasonably delayed and served at a time when counsel was
unavailable does not amount to positive misconduct. (See Carroll v. Abbott
Laboratories, Inc. (1982) 32 Cal.3d 892, 900 [“Though counsel grossly
mishandled a routine discovery matter, no abandonment of the client
appears.”].) Plaintiff in reply argues that the counsel who specially appeared
for her at the summary judgment hearing also abandoned her by failing to raise
her illness and the existence of valid discovery responses. (Reply at pp. 3–4.)
Once more, no positive misconduct occurred: this attorney sought a denial of
the motion without prejudice to allow a continuance, indicated Plaintiff’s
ability to serve compliant discovery responses, and stated — truthfully, as
confirmed by Plaintiff’s declaration — that Plaintiff “did not do what she was
supposed to do” in failing to serve valid discovery responses. (Yoshiba Decl.
Exh. G.) Plaintiff was never abandoned by counsel.
The motion is therefore DENIED.