 Case Number:  22STCV01484    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant
Visual Edge’s Motion for Summary Judgment or Adjudication.is GRANTED as to the
second, third, and ninth causes of action for failure to accommodate, failure
to engage in the interactive process, and wrongful termination. The motion  is otherwise DENIED.
 
I.                  
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff objects to
portions of the declaration of Marion Cronin. Objection No. 2 is SUSTAINED, as
Cronin offers no basis for her personal knowledge of what Defendant instructed
Plaintiff after receiving her work status report, particularly when in her deposition
she denied speaking to Plaintiff after receiving the report. (Opposition Exh. 3
at pp. 57–58.) Plaintiff’s remaining objections are OVERRULED.  
II.               
SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
A party may move for summary judgment “if it
is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the
action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party
will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by
itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed
in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)
 
The moving party bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing
party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850;
accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
 
Once the defendant
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.) 
The plaintiff may not rely upon the mere allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Ibid.) 
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the
motion must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Defendant Visual
Edge (Defendant) moves for summary judgment or adjudication of all of Plaintiff
Victoria Nellie Olivier Tulsidas’ (Plaintiff) claims for discrimination and
retaliation on the grounds that Plaintiff cannot establish a prima facie case
for any of her claims. Specifically, Defendant argues that Plaintiff requested
to be laid off while on maternity leave in April 2020 to accommodate personal
concerns over childcare and other matters. (Motion at pp. 4–5.)
 
Marion Cronin, the
HR Business Partner with whom Plaintiff discussed her layoff in April 2020,
states that she called Plaintiff in response to an email from her inquiring
about layoffs. (Cronin Decl. ¶ 13.) Plaintiff told her that she was “concerned
about childcare for her children, including her newborn twins and three
school-age children. She was also concerned about her or her school -age
children contracting COVID-19 and transmitting it to an elderly relative who
was living with her.” (Cronin Decl. ¶ 13.) Cronin states that Plaintiff
“asked if she could be laid off so that she could collect unemployment.” (Ibid.)
Cronin asked if Plaintiff was asking to be laid off, and Plaintiff answered
“Yes.” (Ibid.) Cronin denies promising that Plaintiff could return to
work. (Ibid.) 
 
Plaintiff in
opposition contends she was induced to accept her layoff on the assurance that
she would be recalled to work. Plaintiff testified at deposition that her
coworker called her while she was on leave to discuss the COVID pandemic and
the company’s layoffs, and mentioned that some people were voluntarily taking
layoffs. (Motion Exh. 2 at p. 74.) Plaintiff spoke to Cronin about the layoffs,
outlining her concerns about her children and her parents, and stating,
approximately, “If you guys are offering that, I don’t mind taking it, as long
as I’ll get my job back.” (Motion Exh. 2 at p. 75.) Cronin at her deposition
stated that she informed Plaintiff that the layoffs were for business necessity
and that Defendant would “bring back” laid off employees “as soon as the
business would allow.” (Opposition Exh. 3 at p. 62.) Cronin emailed her later
that day, stating, “What we would like to do is temporarily lay you off, due to
the COVID19 reduction. You would be able to apply for unemployment (and the
extra stimulus) and we will be doing recalls as soon as the business allows
it.” (Opposition Exh. 7.)
 
After receiving her
final check, Plaintiff was not contacted by Defendant for more than a year
thereafter, and vice versa. But Plaintiff at some point spied a post on the
Linkedin website advertising account executive positions for Defendant in
California. (Plaintiff Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) Plaintiff also saw a posting for an
account executive position in Defendant’s Los Angeles office, where Plaintiff
used to work, on Ziprecruiter in January 2022. (Plaintiff Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. B.)
Plaintiff concluded from these ads that Defendant was trying to replace her.
(Plaintiff Decl. ¶ 5.)
 
Cronin states in her
declaration that the COVID pandemic essentially “shut down” Defendant’s sales
department, where Plaintiff worked. (Cronin Decl. ¶ 10.) Whatever remained of
Plaintiff’s duties after she took leave were transferred to her coworker, Amanda
Makary. (Cronin Decl. ¶ 17.) Defendant laid off 63 employees between March and
June 2020, and has since recalled 27, all of whom were technical support or
support for technical employees. (Cronin Decl. ¶ 18.) Defendant reached out to
sales employees about recalls  in June
2022 — after Plaintiff filed this lawsuit in January 2022. (Cronin Decl. 18.) 
 
To establish a
discrimination claim under FEHA, an employee must prove the following elements:
“(1) he was a member of a protected class, (2) he was qualified for the
position he sought or was performing competently in the position he held, (3)
he suffered an adverse employment action, such as termination, demotion, or
denial of an available job, and (4) some other circumstance suggests
discriminatory motive.” (Dinslage v. City
and County of San Francisco (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 368, 378.) If the employer
offers evidence of a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for the action, “the
plaintiff bears the burden of proving the employer's proffered reason was
pretextual.” (Brundage v. Hahn (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 228,
236.)
 
Here, there are no
triable issues as to whether Plaintiff was laid off for discriminatory animus.
The undisputed evidence shows that Plaintiff in April 2020 learned that layoffs
were in the pipeline at Defendant, and based on her own concerns related to the
COVID pandemic, offered to be laid off on the assurance that the layoff was
temporary. Plaintiff acknowledges as much in her opposition. The adverse
employment action that Plaintiff complains of, therefore, is not the decision
to lay her off in April 2020, but Defendant’s failure to recall her in the
subsequent months. (See FAC ¶ 14.) 
 
On this
matter, triable issues of fact prevent adjudication of Plaintiff’s prima facie
case on this latter point. “The burden of
proving a prima
facie
case of disparate treatment is not onerous.” (Heard v. Lockheed Missiles
& Space Co. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1735, 1751.) Here, Plaintiff has
presented evidence that she was voluntarily laid off based on assurances that
she would be recalled when business improved. This layoff occurred while she
was on maternity leave. Plaintiff presents evidence that Defendant did not
contact her, however, but specifically advertised her old position on the
Ziprecruiter website as early as January 2022. (Plaintiff Decl. ¶ 4.) This is
not much different from the prima facie case held sufficient in McDonnell
Douglas Corp. v. Green (1973) 411 U.S. 792, where the court held that a
racial discrimination plaintiff could make a prima facie case for failure to
hire “by showing (i) that he belongs to a racial minority; (ii) that he applied
and was qualified for a job for which the employer was seeking applicants;
(iii) that, despite his qualifications, he was rejected; and (iv) that, after
his rejection, the position remained open and the employer continued to seek
applicants from persons of complainant's qualifications.” (Id. at p.
802.) If the claim is re-framed as one for failure to recall a temporarily
laid-off employee, Plaintiff has made the showing based on Defendant’s posting
ads for her old position before attempting to reach out to her. The fact that
Defendant ultimately did reach out to Plaintiff does little to rebut
this showing, as no such outreach was made until Plaintiff filed this action. 
The same facts warrant the same outcome on Plaintiff’s
retaliation claims under FEHA, the California Family Rights Act (CFRA), and the
Pregnancy Disability Leave Law (PDLL)“In order to establish a prima facie case
of retaliation under this section, a plaintiff must show (1) he or she engaged
in a ‘protected activity, (2) the employer subjected the employee to an adverse
employment action, and (3) a causal link existed between the protected activity
and the employer's action.” (Moore v. Regents of University of California
(2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 216, 244, internal quotation marks omitted; see also Faust
v. California Portland Cement Co. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 864, 885 [laying
out CFRA retaliation elements].)  Although Defendant argues that Plaintiff never
complained of discrimination (Motion at pp. 15–16.) But Defendant neglects that
seeking accommodation for a disability is also protected activity under the
FEHA, which Plaintiff engaged in. (See Gov. Code § 12940, subd. (m)(2);
Cronin Decl. ¶ 8 [Plaintiff was given pregnancy-related medical leave]; Sanchez
v. Swissport, Inc. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 1331, 1340 [“Being unable to work
during pregnancy is a disability for the purposes of section 12940.”].) Thus
triable issues exist as to Plaintiff’s retaliation claims as well.
However, Defendant is entitled to
summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s claims for the claims for failure to
accommodate and failure to engage in the interactive process. “The elements of a failure to accommodate
claim are (1) the plaintiff has a disability under the FEHA, (2) the plaintiff
is qualified to perform the essential functions of the position, and (3) the
employer failed to reasonably accommodate the plaintiff's disability.” (Swanson
v. Morongo Unified School Dist. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 954, 969, internal
quotation marks omitted.) “Under FEHA, an employer must engage in a good
faith interactive process with the disabled employee to explore
the alternatives to accommodate the disability.” (Nealy v. City of Santa
Monica (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 359, 379.) “To prevail on a claim for
failure to engage in the interactive process, the employee must
identify a reasonable accommodation that would have been available at the time
the interactive process occurred. (Ibid.) Here, it
is undisputed that Plaintiff was granted all accommodations she requested, in
the form of medical and pregnancy leave, and that such leave was terminated at
her request. Although Plaintiff argues that Defendant failed to discuss her
on-the-job pregnancy restrictions with her prior to her taking of leave
(Opposition at pp. 9–10), Plaintiff presents no evidence or argument that any
such on-the-job accommodation was necessary. Plaintiff presented Cronin with
work restrictions related to standing, sitting, and lifting, which Cronin felt did
not warrant further action because Plaintiff’s job already complied with the
restrictions. Plaintiff argues that Cronin should have followed up with
Plaintiff, but does not contend that Cronin was mistaken. (Opposition at p.
10.) Thus summary adjudication is proper as to the second and third causes of
action.
 
Summary
adjudication is also proper for the ninth cause of action for wrongful
termination. This is because, as discussed above, Plaintiff’s claims do not
arise from her layoff in April 2020, but from the failure to recall her at some
later point. A claim for wrongful discharge requires as an element that the
employer “discharged” the employee for a wrongful reason. (Haney v. Aramark Uniform Services, Inc. (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 623, 641.) Here, it is undisputed
that Defendant discharged Plaintiff during the COVID pandemic per her request.
Accordingly the motion is GRANTED as to the ninth cause of action.