 Case Number:  23NWCV02925    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  C Jakeline Gastelum vs American
Honda Motor Co., Inc.
Case No.: 23NWCV02925
Hearing Date: November 5, 2024 @ 9:30 a.m. 
 
#5
Tentative Ruling 
Plaintiff Jakeline Gastelum’s Motion to Compel
Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents (Set One) is CONTINUED
to February 18, 2025 at 9:30 a.m. in Department SE-C. 
Plaintiff
to give notice. 
 
This is a lemon law action. 
Plaintiff Jakeline Gaselum (“Plaintiff”) alleges that she purchased a
2021 Honda Accord which was distributed and warranted by Defendant American
Honda Motor Co., Inc. (“Defendant”). Plaintiff received a defective and unsafe
vehicle with recurring electrical problems. Despite Plaintiff’s frequent repair
visits and Defendant’s inability to eliminate the problems with the vehicle
after a reasonable number of attempts, Defendant failed to promptly repurchase
or replace the vehicle in accordance with the Song-Beverly Act. 
On November 21, 2023, Plaintiff propounded her first set of
Requests for Production of Documents. (Nandivada Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. A.) On January
22, 2023, Defendant served its responses which Plaintiff claims are not
code-compliant. (Id., ¶7.)  
The Court is not persuaded that counsel have exhausted
their meet and confer obligations pursuant to the Code. Counsel are advised
that their meet and confer efforts should go beyond merely sending letters
stating their respective positions. (See Townsend v. Superior Court
(1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 1431, 1439.) “A determination of whether an attempt at
informal resolution is adequate…involves the exercise of discretion. The level
of effort at an informal resolution which satisfies the ‘reasonable and good
faith attempt’ standard depends upon the circumstances. In a larger, more
complex discovery request, a greater effort at informal resolution may be
warranted. In a simpler, or more narrowly focused case, a more modest effort
may suffice. The history of the litigation, the nature of the interaction
between counsel, the nature of the issues, the type and scope of the discovery
requested, the prospects for success and other similar factors can be relevant.
Judges have broad powers and responsibilities to determine what measures and
procedures are appropriate in varying circumstances.” (Obregon v. Sup. Ct.
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
Since the instant motion has been filed a stipulated protective
order has been filed. 
Accordingly, Counsel are ORDERED to make further efforts to
resolve the issues presented. If, after exhausting those efforts, court
intervention is needed, counsel may appear and argue the merits on the
continued hearing date. If counsel are unable to informally resolve their
discovery disputes, then counsel are instructed to submit a JOINT STATEMENT
with a detailed outline of the remaining disputed issues for which a ruling is
required. Counsel are also strongly advised to review the standing CMC order
issued in Department F for guidance on the manner to handle disputed items. The
joint statement must be FILED on or before February 7, 2025.  
 