 Case Number:  23NWCV03942    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  C Juan Paulo Sanchez Silva vs
Antonios Misafiris
Case No.: 23NWCV03942
Hearing Date: November 5, 2024 @ 10:30 a.m. 
 
#8
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant Antonious Misafiris’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED
with 20 days leave to amend and without leave to amend as set forth below.  
Defendant to give notice. 
 
Background
On December 7, 2023, Plaintiff Juan Paulo Sanchez Silva (“Plaintiff”)
filed this lawsuit against Defendant Antonios Misafiris (“Defendant”) over a
commercial lease agreement for the premises located at 10312 Atlantic Ave.,
Unit A, South Gate, CA 90280 (“Subject Premises”).  Plaintiff asserts causes of action for: (1)
Wrongful Eviction; (2) Trepass; (3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress; (4) Business & Profession Code § 17300; (5) Intentional
Misrepresentation; (6) Intentional Interference with Use of Premises; and (7)
Breach of Contract & the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing. 
Defendant demurs to all causes of action on the on the
ground that they do not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
No Opposition filed as of November 1, 2024.
 
Requests
for Judicial Notice 
 
Defendant
requests judicial notice of the following documents in Case No. 23NWUD01829,
an earlier unlawful detainer action involving the same parties: 1) the
Complaint, 2) Judgment, 3) Notice of Enforcement of Eviction, and 4) December
7, 2023 minute order.  The Court may take judicial notice of official legislative,
executive, and judicial acts and records of any court of this state or any
court of record of the United States or of any state of the United
States.  (Evid. Code §§ 452(c) and (d).)  Thus, Defendant’s Requests
for Judicial Notice Nos. 1-4 are GRANTED.  Though the Court may take
judicial notice of the docket and filings within, the Court may not take
judicial notice of the truth of their contents. (See Herrera v. Deutsche
Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.) 
 
Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack;
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal 3d 311, 318.) No other extrinsic evidence can be
considered (i.e., no “speaking demurrers”).  
 
A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dep’t of Water & Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.) In
a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and
not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (SKF
Farms v. Superior Ct. (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.) “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn,
147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
Discussion 
First Cause of Action: Wrongful Eviction
The
Complaint alleges that Plaintiff was wrongfully evicted because Defendant “never
served upon the Plaintiff a 3-Day Notice to Pay or Quit.” (Complaint, p. 2.) 
Defendant
argues that the issue of service of the notice to pay rent or quit was
litigated in the unlawful detainer action, and collateral estoppel prevents its
relitigation in this lawsuit.  
The
doctrine of res judicata applies when the issues decided in the prior
adjudication are identical with those presented in the later action; there was
a final judgment on the merits in the prior action; and the party against whom
the plea is raised was a party in privity with a party in the prior
adjudication. (Citizens for Open Access to Sand and Tide, Inc. v. Seadrift
Ass’n (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 1053, 1065.) “Res judicata describes the
preclusive effect of a final judgment on the merits. Res judicata, or claim
preclusion, prevents relitigation of the same cause of action in a second suit
between the same parties or parties in privity with them. Collateral estoppel,
or issue preclusion, precludes relitigation of issues argued and decided in
prior proceedings. Under the doctrine of res judicata, if plaintiff prevails in
an action, the cause is merged into the judgment and may not be asserted in a
subsequent lawsuit; a judgment for the defendant serves as a bar to further
litigation of the same cause of action. [¶] A clear and predictable res
judicata doctrine promotes judicial economy. Under this doctrine, all claims
based on the same cause of action must be decided in a single suit; if not
brought initially, they may not be raised at a later date. Res judicata
precludes piecemeal litigation by splitting a single cause of action or
relitigation of the same cause of action in a different legal theory or for
different relief.” (Mycogen Corp. v. Monsanto Co. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 888,
897.) 
Applicable
here— the doctrine of collateral estoppel, also known as “[i]ssue preclusion,
prevents relitigation of issues argued and decided in prior proceedings. The
threshold requirements for issue preclusion are: (1) the issue is identical to
that decided in the former proceeding, (2) the issue was actually litigated in
the former proceeding, (3) the issue was necessarily decided in the former
proceeding, (4) the decision in the former proceeding is final and on the
merits, and (5) preclusion is sought against a person who was a party or in
privity with a party to the former proceeding.” (Castillo v. City of Los
Angeles (2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 477, 481.) 
A
judgment in an unlawful detainer action has a collateral estoppel effect in a
subsequent action only as to those issues litigated and determined in the prior
action. The party asserting the collateral estoppel has the burden to prove
from the record of the prior action that the issue was actually litigated and
determined. (Landeros v. Pankey (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1167, 1171.) 
In Case
No. 23NWUD01829, following a court trial, the Court entered an unlawful
detainer judgment on October 10, 2023, in favor of Antonios Misafiris against Juan
Paulo Sancez Silva.  Restitution and
possession of the Subject Premises was awarded to Misafiris. (RJN, Ex. 2.) On
December 7, 2023, the Court denied Silva’s Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Judgment.
(RJN, Ex. 4.) Silva filed this lawsuit on the same day (December 7, 2023).  
“[T]he
basic elements of unlawful detainer for nonpayment of rent contained in CCP §1161(2)
are: (1) the tenant is in possession of the premises; (2) that possession is
without permission; (3) the tenant is in default for nonpayment of rent; (4)
the tenant has been properly served with a written three-day notice; and (5)
the default continues after the three-day notice period has elapsed.”  (Kruger v. Reyes (2014) 232
Cal.App.4th Supp. 10, 16.) 
Plaintiff’s claim in this case – that Defendant failed to
properly serve a written three-day notice – is an element of unlawful detainer
which was necessarily decided in Case No. 23NWUD01829.  That case is now final.  Thus, relitigation of the issue of service of
the three-day notice is barred by collateral estoppel.  
The demurrer to first cause of action is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend.  
Second Cause of Action: Trespass
Trespass is an unlawful interference with possession of
property. "The elements of trespass are: (1) the plaintiffs ownership or
control of the property; (2) the defendant's intentional, reckless, or
negligent entry onto the property; (3) lack of permission for the entry or acts
in excess of permission; (4) harm; and (5) the defendant's conduct was a
substantial factor in causing the harm. (See CACI No. 2000.)" (Ralphs
Grocerv Co. v. Victory Consultants. Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th
245,261-262.)
The Complaint alleges “Plaintiff was entitled to possession
of the commercial rental unit located at 10312 Atlantic Ave. Unit A, South
Gate, California 90280 … Defendants made an unauthorized entry on Plaintiff
[sic] commercial unit in order to inspect unit, without his permission, and
without property [sic] notice on multiple occasions and interfered with
Plaintiff’s business … As a direct and proximate result … Plaintiff suffered
monetary damages.”  (Complaint, p.
5.)  
Defendant argues,
among other things, that Plaintiff does not indicate whether Defendant’s alleged
entries were intentional, reckless or negligent.  The Court agrees.  
The demurrer to
the second cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
Third
Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
The
elements of an IIED claim are: “(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the
defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of
the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct.”  (Christensen
v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 903.)  Under California law,
for conduct to be “outrageous” it must be “so extreme as to exceed all bounds
of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.”  (See Ess v.
Eskaton Props., Inc. (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 120, 130.)  Liability does
not extend to mere insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty
oppressions, or other trivialities.  (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46
Cal.4th 1035, 1051.)  “Generally, conduct will be found to be actionable
where the recitation of the facts to an average member of the community would
arouse his resentment against the actor, and lead him to exclaim, ‘Outrageous!’
”  (Ibid.)  “Severe emotional distress means . . . emotional
distress of such substantial quantity or enduring quality that no reasonable
man in a civilized society should be expected to endure it.”  (Fletcher
v. Western Nat. Life Ins. Co. (1970) 10 Cal.App.3d 376, 397.) 
The Complaint alleges,
“Defendants, and each of them, acted in an outrageous manner in his business
relationship with the Plaintiff, when they tried to evict the Plaintiff out of
his commercial unit on or about September 31, 2023, in contravention of
California statute.” (Complaint, p. 6.) “As a direct and proximate result of illegally
trying to evict the Plaintiff from his commercial unit, the Plaintiff suffered
great emotional upset and distress …” (Id.) 
Defendant argues
this cause of action fails because Plaintiff was properly evicted in the
unlawful detainer action.  The Court
agrees.  Moreover, eviction from a
commercial unit, without more, does not amount to outrageous conduct.  
The demurrer to
the third cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.  
Fourth
Cause of Action: Violation of Business and Profession Code § 17200
“Any person who engages, has engaged, or
proposes to engage in unfair competition may be enjoined in any court of competent
jurisdiction.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17203.) “Unfair competition shall mean
and include any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and
unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising.” (Id., § 17200.)
The Complaint alleges, “Defendants, and each of
them, engaged in an unfair business act … when they illegally evicted the
Plaintiff out of his commercial unit … without providing the Plaintiff with a
30- or 60-day notice to quit the premises.” (Complaint, p. 7.) 
Defendant argues this cause of action fails
because Defendant evicted Plaintiff by properly following established
California law.  The Court agrees.  
The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. 
Fifth
Cause of Action: Intentional Misrepresentation
To
establish a claim for deceit based on intentional misrepresentation, the
plaintiff must prove seven essential elements: (1) the defendant represented to
the plaintiff that an important fact was true; (2) that representation was
false; (3) the defendant knew that the representation was false when the
defendant made it, or the defendant made the representation recklessly and
without regard for its truth; (4) the defendant intended that the plaintiff
rely on the representation; (5) the plaintiff reasonably relied on the
representation; (6) the plaintiff was harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's reliance
on the defendant's representation was a substantial factor in causing that harm
to the plaintiff.”  (Manderville v. PCG&S Group (2007) 146 Cal.
App. 4th 1486, 1498.)  Intentional misrepresentation is a cause of action
based in deceit and, like fraud, must be specifically pled.  (Id.
at 1498, fn. 4.)  That is, allegations in such an action need not be
liberally construed, general pleading of the legal conclusion of fraud is
insufficient, and every element of the cause of action for fraud must be
alleged fully, factually and specifically.  (Wilhelm v. Pray, Price,
Williams & Russell (1986) 186 Cal. App. 3d 1324, 1331; see also
Quelimane Co., Inc. v. Stewart Title Guaranty Co. (1998) 19 Cal. 4th 26,
47.) 
Plaintiff alleges “Defendants, and each of them, made false
representations to Plaintiff, that they were going to except [sic] payments for
the arrears.” (Complaint, p. 7.) “The Defendants, and each of them when they
made these false representations knew them to be false. The Defendants had no
intention of honoring the tenancy. The Defendants, and each of them, intended
to induce the Plaintiff to act in reliance upon their representations, in an
effort to get him to not exercise his legal rights.  Plaintiff did, in fact, justifiably rely on
the Defendants’ misrepresentations … As a direct and proximate result of having
relied on the defendant’s misrepresentations and deceit, the Plaintiff was
damaged …” (Id. at p. 8.) 
The Court determines that this cause of action is not specifically
pled.  Plaintiff fails to plead who made
the misrepresentations, what was said, and when they said it.  
The demurrer to the fifth cause of action is SUSTAINED with
20 days leave to amend.  
Sixth Cause of Action: Intentional Interference
with use of Commercial Premises
Plaintiff alleges,
“Defendants, and each of them, tortuously and wrongfully, interfered with the
plaintiff’s right to conduct business in his commercial unit he had leased, by
illegally evicting the plaintiff out of his commercial unit … without first sending
them with a three-day notice to pay or quit …” (Complaint, p. 8.)
This cause of
action appears to be based on the same factual assertions in the first cause of
action for wrongful eviction.  As
discussed above, the issue of notice was necessarily decided in the unlawful
detainer action; thus, relitigation of the claim is barred by collateral
estoppel.  
The demurrer to
the sixth cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.  
Seventh
Cause of Action: Breach of Contract and the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing
The
covenant of good faith and fair dealing is implied by law in every contract,
and it acts “as a supplement to the express contractual covenants, to prevent a
contracting party from engaging in conduct which (while not technically
transgressing the express covenants) frustrates the other party’s rights to the
benefits of the contract.” (Racine & Laramie, Ltd. v. Department of
Parks & Recreation (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1026, 1031-1032.) 
With respect
to this cause of action, the Complaint realleges that Defendant wrongfully
evicted Plaintiff from the commercial unit without a three-day notice to quit.
(Complaint, p. 9.)
For the
reasons discussed above, the demurrer to the seventh cause of action is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend.  