 Case Number:  23NWCV02172    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  C Juvencio Macias vs Regional
Acceptance Corporation, et al.
Case No.: 23NWCV02172
Hearing Date: November 5, 2024 @ 9:30 a.m. 
 
#3
Tentative Ruling
Defendant Regional Acceptance Corporation’s
Demurrer is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
Defendant to give notice. 
 
Background 
This is a personal injury action.  As relevant here, the Complaint filed on July
13, 2023 by Plaintiff Juvencio Macias (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on or about
July 6, 2022, at Orr and Day Road by Firestone Boulevard, in the City of
Norwalk, “Defendant Andrew Jacob Zwirez (“Zwirez”) was operating the vehicle
while under the influence of drugs and/or alcohol … and drove his vehicle into
Plaintiff’s vehicle with conscious disregard for the rights and safety of
others, including Plaintiff, and immediately fled from the scene … resulting in
injury to a person.” (Complaint, ¶10(f).) Defendant Regional Acceptance
Corporation (“RAC”) … knew of [Zwirez’s] propensities to drink and drive, knew
that he was unfit to drive and yet negligently entrusted him with their
vehicle.” (Ibid.) “Defendants' Regional Acceptance Corporation and
Andrew Jacob Zwirez' vehicle did actually collide with Plaintiff's vehicle.”
(Complaint, p. 4, ¶5.) Based thereon, Plaintiff alleges negligence and
negligent supervision, hiring, retention and training against RAC; Andrew Jacob
Zwirez; Lizette Lopez; Jose Romero; City of Lakewood; Lakewood Sheriff's
Station; City of Norwalk; County of Los Angeles; Los Angeles County Sheriff's
Department; Deputy De Medeiros; Deputy Mata; and Does 1 to 100, inclusive.  
Defendant RAC demurs to the Complaint on the grounds that
Plaintiff fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.   
Legal Standard 
The party against whom a complaint has been filed may
object to the pleading, by demurrer, on several grounds, including the ground
that the pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) A party may demur to an entire complaint, or to any
causes of action stated therein. (CCP § 430.50(a).)
Discussion 
Under California law, to state a claim for negligence,
plaintiff must plead the following required elements: “(1) a duty to use
reasonable care; (2) breach of that duty; (3) proximate [or actual/legal]
cause; and (4) plaintiff’s injury.” (Mendoza v. City of L.A., (1998) 66
Cal.App.4th 1333, 1339.)
RAC contends, among other things, that the Complaint does
not allege RAC had ownership or title to Swirez’s vehicle, nor does it allege
RAC had possessed, controlled or operated Swirez’s vehicle at the time of the
subject incident. 
Plaintiff argues that RAC is listed as the owner of the
vehicle in the Traffic Collision Report, and therefore the allegations in the Complaint
are proper.  However, Complaint does not
refer to the Traffic Collision Report and the report is not included as an
attachment.  As to ownership of the
vehicle, the Complaint merely alleges “Defendants' Regional Acceptance
Corporation and Andrew Jacob Zwirez' vehicle did actually collide with
Plaintiff's vehicle.” (Complaint, pg. 4, ¶5.) The Court determines that the
Complaint does not sufficiently plead RAC’s connection to Swirez, RAC’s ownership
interest in the vehicle driven by Zwirez, or any duty RAC owes to
Plaintiff.  
Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave
to amend. 