  Case Number:  23NWCV01842    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  C David John Kearney, et al. vs
Briana Gonzalez, et al.
Case No.: 23NWCV01842
Hearing Date: November 5, 2024 @ 9:30 a.m. 
 
#2 
Tentative Ruling 
Plaintiffs Tonia Perez, Jimmy Rey Patrick, and
David John Kearney’s Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Complaint is GRANTED.
 Plaintiffs are
ordered to separately file and serve the First Amended Complaint within 5
days.  

Defendant to give notice. 
 
Background
This is a personal injury action.
Plaintiff/Successor-in-Interest Tonia Perez and Plaintiff Jimmy Rey Patrick are
the surviving parents of Decedent Alex Christopher Villeda (“Decedent”).
Plaintiff David John Kearney is the surviving partner and friend of Decedent.
On June 11, 2024, Defendant Briana Gonzalez’s demurrer to
the Complaint was overruled in part and sustained in part with 20 days leave to
amend.  Defendant Joseph Hoban’s demurrer
was sustained with 20 days leave to amend. 

On August 12, 2024, Defendants Briana Gonzales and Joseph
Hoban applied ex parte to dismiss the Complaint and enter judgment in their
favor on the grounds that Plaintiffs failed to file an amended complaint within
the time period prescribed by the Court in its June 11, 2024 ruling.  On August 13, 2024, the Court denied the ex
parte application and specially set a hearing on today’s date for a motion for
leave to file a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).  
On August 21, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion
seeking leave to file a FAC on the grounds that the parties orally agreed at
the July 17, 2024 case management conference that Plaintiffs could file a FAC
by August 22, 2024.  
Legal Standard 
The
Court may, in its discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow an
amendment to any pleading.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)¿ Amendments
are liberally permitted up to the date of trial or during trial where no
prejudice is shown. (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739,
761.) A motion to amend a pleading must include a copy of the proposed
amendment or amended pleading which must be serially numbered to differentiate
it from previous pleadings or amendments and must state what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be deleted or added, if any, and where, by
page, paragraph, and line number, the allegations are located.¿ (California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).)¿ The motion shall also be accompanied by a
declaration attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is
necessary and proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations
were discovered, and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿
(California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)¿ 
 
Discussion 
It is undisputed that pursuant to the
Court’s June 11, 2024 ruling, Plaintiff was granted leave to file a FAC by July
1, 2024 and failed to do so.  
Counsel for Plaintiffs,
Uriel Gdolian, declares that during the July 17, 2023 case management
conference, “it was agreed upon to allow Plaintiffs until the next Case
Management Conference [on August 22, 2024] to file the FAC. (Gdolian Decl.,
¶6.) Gdolian “was taken by surprise” when Defendants applied ex parte on August
12, 2024 to dismiss the case due to Plaintiffs’ failure to timely file the FAC.
(Id., ¶7.) The parties had been in settlement discussions for three
months and Defendants never mentioned the FAC was overdue. (Ibid.) 
 
Defendants argue that
the purported agreement to extend the deadline to file a FAC is not reflected
in the Court’s July 17, 2024 order.  Defendants
deny consenting to any further extensions to file a FAC. (Gates Decl., ¶14.) 
 
Defendants correctly
point out that Plaintiff’s motion fails to meet the
requirements of CRC Rule 3.1324.  Subdivision
(a) requires Plaintiffs to state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted or added, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the allegations are located.  Subdivision (b) requires that they state the
effect of the amendment(s), why the amendment is necessary and proper, when the
facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and the reasons
why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  
 
In
Reply, Counsel for Plaintiffs, Elan Zektser, declares that “the purpose and
reason for the amended complaint is to provide a fuller scope of the
facts and theory of liability concerning this incident.” (Zektser Decl., ¶4.)
Zektser declares that the FAC alleges that both Kearney and Villeda were acting
in the course and scope of employment with Defendants.  In its June 11, 2024 ruling, the Court found
that Plaintiff Kearney did not allege he was in an employment relationship with
Defendant Gonzalez.  The FAC directly
address this issue.  
 
The
Court considers the
liberality associated with making amendments and the absence of undue prejudice
to Defendants, as no trial date has been set. 
The Court also considers the brevity of the FAC’s factual allegations
(three paragraphs) and the relatively simple amendments Plaintiffs seek to
make.  Thus, the Court determines that
Plaintiffs have substantially complied with CRC Rule 3.1324 and the FAC should
be allowed.  
Plaintiffs’
motion for leave to file a First Amended Complaint is GRANTED.  Plaintiffs are ordered to separately file and
serve the First Amended Complaint within 5 days.  
 