 Case Number:  24STCV00091    Hearing Date:   June 4, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June 4, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Donnie F. Wilson v. Jersey Legends
Productions, LLC, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV00091            
 
MOTION
TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants Shaquille O’Neal and Michael Parris
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Donnie
F. Wilson
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract and wage and hour violations
that was filed on January 3, 2024. Plaintiff alleges that Defendants promised
him an ownership interest in Defendant Jersey Legends, LLC, in exchange for his
services to produce films and other media content for Jersey Legends. 
 
Defendants Shaquille O’Neal and
Michael Parris move to quash service of the summons and complaint upon them for
lack of personal jurisdiction. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Defendants’
Motion to Quash Service of the Summons and Complaint is DENIED. 
 
            Defendants
Michael Parris and Shaquille O’Neal are deemed to have made a general
appearance this date. Defendants shall file a demurrer, answer, or other
responsive pleading within 30 days of this order. 
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Defendants Shaquille O’Neal and
Michael Parris move to quash service of the summons and complaint upon them for
lack of personal jurisdiction. 
 
//
 
Special Appearance 
 
No motion under Code of Civil Procedure 418.10 “shall be
deemed a general appearance by the defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 418.10(d).)
Here, Specially Appearing Defendants (“Defendants”) brought this motion under
section 418.10. Thus, filing this motion does not constitute a general
appearance.  
 
Legal Standard
 
On a motion to quash service of the summons and
complaint, the moving party must first present some admissible evidence, such
as declarations or affidavits, to place the issue of minimum contacts before
the Court. (School Dist. of Oskaloosa County v. Superior Court (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1126, 1131.) “When a motion to quash is
properly brought, the burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to establish
the facts of jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.”  (Aquila, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 556, 568; see also Elkman v. National States Ins. Co. (2009)
173 Cal.App.4th 1305, 1312-13 [“Where a nonresident defendant challenges
jurisdiction by way of a motion to quash, the plaintiff bears the burden of
establishing by a preponderance of the evidence that minimum contacts exist
between the defendant and the forum state to justify imposition of personal
jurisdiction.”].) Evidence of the facts giving rise to personal jurisdiction or
their absence may be in the form of declarations. (Arensen v. Raymond Lee
Organization, Inc. (1973) 31 Cal.App.3d 991, 995.) The Court should
exclude evidence that would be inadmissible at trial. (See, e.g., Judd v.
Superior Court (1976) 60 Cal.App.3d 38, 43-44 [Court of Appeal excluded
inadmissible hearsay evidence offered in support of affirmation of trial
court’s denial of motion to quash, and subsequently reversed the trial court’s
denial].) A non-resident defendant may be subject to either general or specific
jurisdiction. (See Elkman v. National States Insurance Co., supra, 173
Cal.App.4th at 1314.) 
 
Personal Jurisdiction
 
Defendants
contend that the Court lacks either general personal jurisdiction or specific
personal jurisdiction over the individual Defendants O’Neal and Parris because they
are not California residents and do not have a sufficient relationship with the
State of California to establish jurisdiction. A
non-resident defendant may be subject to either general or specific
jurisdiction. (See Elkman v. National States Insurance Co., supra, 173
Cal.App.4th at 1314.) 
 
            Defendants contend the Court lasks
general jurisdiction over them, and Plaintiff does not dispute that argument, contending
only that the Court has specific jurisdiction. The Court will therefore confine
its analysis to the question of specific jurisdiction. 
 
“Where
general jurisdiction cannot be established, a court may assume specific
jurisdiction over a defendant in a particular case if the plaintiff shows the
defendant has purposefully availed himself or herself of forum benefits; [ie.]
the nonresident purposefully directed its activities at forum residents or
purposefully availed itself of the privilege of conducting activities within
the forum state, thus invoking the benefits and protections of local law. 
(Hanson v. Denckla (1958) 357 U.S. 235.)
 
Specific
jurisdiction involves a 3-part test in California: “(1) The nonresident
defendant must do some act or consummate some transaction with the forum or
perform some act by which he purposefully avails himself of the privilege of
conducting activities in the forum, thereby invoking the benefits and
protections of its laws; (2) the claim must be one which arises out of or
results from the defendant's forum-related activities; and (3) exercise of
jurisdiction must be reasonable.” (Panavision International, L.P. v. Toeppen (9th
Cir. 1998) 141 F.3d 1316, 1320 [applying California law].).” (Jewish Defense
Organization, Inc. v. Sup. Ct. of Los Angeles County (Rambam) (1999)
72 Cal.App.4th 1045, 1054.) 
 
Defendants
argue that they did not purposefully avail themselves of the privilege of
conducting activities in California. As the Court of Appeal recently stated:
 
For a state to
have specific jurisdiction, the defendant “must take ‘some act by which [it]
purposefully avails itself of the privilege of conducting activities within the
forum State.’ The contacts must be the defendant’s own choice and not ‘random,
isolated, or fortuitous.’ They must show that the defendant deliberately ‘reached
out beyond’ its home—by, for example, exploiting a market in the forum State or
entering a contractual relationship centered there. Yet even then—because the
defendant is not ‘at home’—the forum State may exercise jurisdiction in only
certain cases. The Plaintiff’s claims . . . ‘must arise out of or relate to the
defendant’s contacts’ with the forum.”
 
(Preciado v.
Freightliner Custom Chassis Corp. (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 964, 977, quoting Ford
Motor Co. v. Montana Eighth Judicial Dist. Court (2021) __ U.S. __, __ [131
S.Ct. 1017, 1024].) Personal jurisdiction over an entity does not automatically
confer personal jurisdiction over its officers, directors or agents. (Calder
v. Jones (1984) 464 U.S. 783, 790.) Conversely, however, an agent’s minimum
contacts with the forum may be imputed to the principal. (E.g. Magnecomp
Corp. v. Athene Co., Ltd. (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 526, 536-37.) That said, a
defendant’s minimum contacts must arise out of that defendant’s conduct
independent of the relationship with the plaintiff. (Walden v. Fiore
(2014) 57 U.S. 277, 284.) “[T]he plaintiff cannot be the only link between the
defendant and the forum.” (Id. at 285.) 
 
            As set forth in the Complaint,
Plaintiff contends that he was contacted by Defendant Parris to develop film
and media content for Defendant O’Neal’s production company, Jersey Legends
Productions. (Complaint ¶ 14.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Parris, as
agent for the other Defendants, agreed to grant Plaintiff an 18% ownership
interest in Jersey Legends in exchange for his services. (Id. ¶ 15.) According
to Plaintiff, although he contributed to two film projects and served as Head
of Creative/Partner for Jersey Legends, he was never compensated pursuant to
that agreement, and Jersey Legends was acquired by Authentic Brands Group in
March 2023. (Complaint ¶¶ 16, 18-23.)  
 
            Defendants contend that they do not
have sufficient contacts with California insofar as their only contacts with
California that are relevant to this dispute are their interactions with
Plaintiff directly, which are not sufficient under the precedent established by
Walden v. Fiore. However, these arguments are not supported by the
evidence presented by Defendants. Defendant Parris states that he has resided
in Virginia since 2017, and that he co-owned Jersey Legends, a Delaware LLC,
with Defendant O’Neal’s trust between its founding in 2017 and its sale in
2023. (Declaration of Michael Parris ISO Mot. ¶ 3.) Defendant Parris dismisses
Plaintiff’s residence in California as “sheer happenstance” but does not
further describe his own contacts with respect to California beyond stating
that Plaintiff’s state of residence was not relevant to his services to Jersey
Legends. (Id. ¶ 6.) Defendant O’Neal states that he moved to Georgia
“prior to 2017” and has lived there ever since, that he did not travel to
California in relation to the film projects to which Plaintiff contributed, and
that Plaintiff’s services to Jersey Legends did not depend on his residence in
California. (Declaration of Shaquille O’Neal ISO Mot. ¶¶ 2-4.)  Again, Defendant O’Neal fails to provide any
factual predicate for challenging specific jurisdiction over him in California.
 
            Although Defendants do not have a
substantial burden on a motion to quash, they must present some admissible
evidence on the issue of minimum contacts before the burden shifts to Plaintiff
to place minimum contacts at issue. (School Dist. of Oskaloosa County v.
Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1126, 1131.) The statements in
Defendants’ declarations do not speak to Defendants’ contacts with California
or lack thereof, nor whether those contacts have any relation to the instant
dispute. The assertion that Plaintiff’s residence in California was not
relevant to the services provided is a conclusion, not evidence. Moreover, statements
that neither Defendant traveled to California in relation to the projects on
which Plaintiff worked does not prove that Defendants had no contacts
with California, merely that they were not present in California in
connection with Plaintiff’s projects. Defendants’ declarations in support of
this motion do not contain relevant, admissible evidence that properly places
the issue of minimum contacts before the Court. Defendants have thus failed to
meet their minimal burden on this motion. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion to Quash Service of the Summons and Complaint is DENIED. 
 
            Defendants
Michael Parris and Shaquille O’Neal are deemed to have made a general
appearance this date. Defendants shall file a demurrer, answer, or other
responsive pleading within 30 days of this order. 
 
            Moving
Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  [DATE]                                  ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 