  Case Number:  22STCV22643    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


October 2, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV22643




MOTION:  


Motion to Compel Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff JJ Zhang




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
MOTIONS
            Plaintiff
JJ Zhang (“Plaintiff”) moves to compel Defendant Harrison Kordestani (“Defendant”)
to appear for deposition.  Defendant has
not filed an opposition to the motion.
ANALYSIS
Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, if a party to the action fails to testify at
deposition after service of a deposition notice and the party has not served a
valid objection to that deposition notice, the party that noticed the
deposition may move for an order to compel the deponent to attend and testify
at deposition.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§2025.450, subd. (a).)  Defendant is a
party to this action.  As such, he must
appear for deposition.  The motion is
granted.  
Plaintiff seeks
sanctions in this motion.  The Court finds
Defendant’s failure to appear for deposition an abuse of the discovery process,
and awards sanctions.  (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 2023.030.)  The Court imposes
sanctions against Defendant and his counsel of record, John Boyko, in the
amount of $2,060, which represents two hours of attorney time to prepare the
motion and attend the hearing at $1,000 per hour, plus the filing fee.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff’s motion
to compel Defendant to appear for deposition is granted.  Defendant is to appear for deposition within
30 days of notice of this order, unless Plaintiff stipulates otherwise. The
scope of the deposition is as set forth in Exhibit 6 to the Declaration of Dominique
N. Westmoreland attached to Plaintiff’s Notice and Motion Compel In-Person
Deposition.
Defendant and his
counsel of record, John Boyko, jointly and severally, are to pay $2,060 in sanctions
to Plaintiff, by and through counsel, within 30 days.
Plaintiff is
ordered to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.
 