  Case Number:  23SMCV00544    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Swarm v. City of
Los Angeles et al., Case No. 23SMCV00544
Hearing Date
February 23, 2024
Defendant Martin’s
Motion for Summary Judgment 
 
Plaintiff Swarm
tripped and fell on an uneven sidewalk. She sued the City and County of Los Angeles
and Martin, whose home is adjacent to the sidewalk. Defendant Martin moves for
summary judgment, arguing she has no duty to maintain the sidewalk, nor did she
cause the condition. 
 
Evidentiary
Objections:
Martin’s objections OVERRULED.
 
Under the
“Sidewalk Accident Decision Doctrine,” a landowner’s duty to repair and
maintain an adjoining sidewalk is not owed to persons who use the sidewalk,
unless the landowner causes the sidewalk’s dangerous condition. Alpert v.
Villa Romano Homeowners Assoc. (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 1320, fn. 11. A
property owner can be liable for “suffering the roots of his tree to cause,
with his knowledge, a dangerous condition on an adjacent public sidewalk.” Moeller
v. Fleming (1982) 136 Cal.App.3d 241, 245. 
 
Martin never
reconstructed any portion of the sidewalk or hired anyone to do so. Martin’s
Separate Statement (MSS) 18-19, Martin decl. ¶¶6-7. She did not place patches
of asphalt or direct anyone to do so and never made alterations to the
sidewalk. MSS 20-22, Martin decl. ¶¶8-10. She does not own the land the
sidewalk sits on. See maps from LA County Assessor’s Office and Bureau of
Engineering. MSS 40, Karayan decl. ¶¶12-13, exh. M-N. This is sufficient to
meet defendant’s initial burden, which shifts to the opposing party to show a
triable issue of fact. 
 
In opposition, the
City argues the sidewalk’s uplift condition was caused by the roots of a tree
on Martin’s property. They argue Martin was aware of the issue from 2019 at the
latest but took no action to remedy the condition. They argue this shows a
triable issue of fact as to whether Martin caused the condition by failing to
maintain trees on her property. The City presents the declaration of Guy
Stivers, landscape architect and certified arborist, who inspected the property
and opined the uplift was caused by roots from an Italian stone pine on
Martin’s property. Stivers decl. ¶16.
 
Martin argues Stivers’
declaration is inadmissible as speculative and lacking a sufficient basis. Stivers
visited the property, noted the presence of an Italian stone pine, followed the
roots of the tree to the location where plaintiff tripped and concluded, based
on his expertise and observations, that the sidewalk uplift was caused by Martin’s
tree roots. Stivers decl. ¶¶6-16.
 
This raises a
triable issue of fact as to whether Martin’s tree roots caused the sidewalk uplift,
which, under Moeller, could make Martin liable to plaintiff. DENIED. 