 Case Number:  23SMCV05070    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
Scholer, et al. v.
Bohrer, Case No. 23SMCV05070
Hearing Date
February 23, 2024
Defendants Bohrer
and Bohrer Construction, Inc.’s Demurrer to Complaint 
 
Homeowner
plaintiffs Ryan and Amber Scholer hired general contractor defendants Bohrer and
Bohrer Construction, Inc. (BCI) to remodel their property. Plaintiffs allege defendants
misrepresented how long the project would take and how much it would cost,
causing the project to remain unfinished and go substantially over budget. Defendants
Bohrer and BCI demur.
 
Breach of Contract
(First CoA)/Disgorgement (Seventh CoA)
On demurrer, facts
contained in an exhibit attached to a complaint take precedence over and
supersede any inconsistent or contrary allegations in the pleading. Jibilian
v. Franchise Tax Bd. (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 862, 864.
 
BCI argues it is
not a contracting party; the agreement attached to the complaint lists “Ryan
and Amber Scholer and Stephen Bohrer” as the parties. Complaint Exh. A. Plaintiffs
point to exhibit B, a mechanic’s lien filed by “Bohrer Construction, a
California Corporation” on October 3, 2023. The Scholers argue that by filing
this lien, Bohrer admitted that BCI was the contractor. 
 
The agreement
(exh. A) is unambiguous. Under the heading “BETWEEN” it lists “Ryan and
Amber Scholer and Stephen Bohrer.” Exh. A, pg. 1. Under the heading “The
Contractor,” it names Stephen Bohrer alone. Id. There are signature lines for
Stephen Bohrer, Ryan Scholer and Amber Scholer only. Id., pg. 2. There is no
signature line for BCI. This language is not susceptible to any other
interpretation, regardless of the later-filed mechanic’s lien. The language of
the exhibit controls over contrary allegations in the complaint. SUSTAINED
without leave to amend as to BCI only.
 
Fraud and Negligent
Misrepresentation 
Under the economic
loss rule, conduct amounting to breach of contract cannot give rise to a tort
claim unless plaintiff pleads and proves harm above and beyond a broken
contractual promise. Robinson Helicopter Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004)
34 Cal.4th 979, 989. When a contract is fraudulently induced, the economic loss
rule does not bar a cause of action for fraud. Id. at 989-990.
 
Defendants argue
the fraud and negligent misrepresentation claims fail because they arise from
the agreement and are barred by the economic loss rule. Id. The
complaint alleges defendants made material misrepresentations which induced plaintiffs
to sign the agreement. Complaint ¶36. The duty to avoid making fraudulent
misrepresentations is independent of any duties imposed by contract, so not
subject to the economic loss rule. 
 
Robinson
Helicopter, supra, which
defendants cite, specifically exempts tort claims for fraud from the economic
loss rule. Defendants’ interpretation of the rule would effectively abolish the
fraudulent inducement cause of action, since all such claims are essentially
built upon a breach of contract. OVERRULED. 
 
Negligence 
The economic loss
rule – subject to statutory exceptions set forth in Cal. Civ. Code §§895-945.5
-- bars negligence claims based on construction defects where there is no
showing of property damage or physical injury. McMillin Albany LLC v.
Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th 241, 246-247.
 
Defendants argue
this claim is barred by the economic loss rule because no physical injury or
property damage is alleged, and no statutory exceptions applies. Plaintiffs
argue the negligence claim is not a claim for construction defect, but rather alleges
failure to adequately supervise the project so it was completed timely.
 
The project
defendants supervised was a construction project, and the duty plaintiffs
allege was breached arose out of a construction contract. Complaint ¶¶50-51.
The negligence claim is a construction defect claim, subject to the economic
loss rule. SUSTAINED with ten days leave to amend to allege property damage or
a statutory exception.
 
Conversion 
This cause of
action is based on the allegation that Bohrer and BCI “deliberately entered
into the Property and removed items that had been installed on the Property, or
which were at the Property in anticipation of being installed, all of which
Plaintiffs had paid for, and were in the possession of.” Complaint ¶55. Defendants
argue the claim is insufficiently pleaded because it does not identify specific
items that were allegedly removed. This level of specificity is not required on
demurrer. The complaint alleges defendants took plaintiffs’ property. This is
sufficient to set forth a cause of action for conversion. OVERRULED.
 
Indemnity 
The sixth cause of
action for indemnity is alleged against American Contractors Indemnity, not
against demurring parties. OVERRULED. 
 
Disgorgement 
Under Cal. Bus. &
Profs. Code §7031(b), “a person who utilizes the services of an unlicensed
contractor may bring an action in any court of competent jurisdiction in this
state to recover all compensation paid to the unlicensed contractor for
performance of any act or contract[.]” For purposes of the statute,
“contractor” is “synonymous with builder” and includes work done “himself or herself or by or through
others, construct, alter, repair, add to, subtract from, improve, move, wreck
or demolish any building, highway, road, parking facility, railroad, excavation or
other structure, project, development or improvement, or to do any part
thereof[.]” Cal. Bus. & Profs. Code §7026. 
 
BCI argues the
same grounds as against the breach of contract claim: it was not a party to the
construction agreement. The definition of “contractor” does not require direct
privity of contract. A “contractor” is one who acts as a builder or performs construction,
demolition or remodeling work on a structure. Under the facts alleged, BCI
meets this definition, regardless of whether it contracted directly with the
Scholers. 
 
The complaint
alleges BCI performed contractor work, Bohrer directed payments be made to BCI,
and BCI lacked a contractor’s license. Complaint ¶¶63-64. The allegations–
which much be treated as true on demurrer- are that BCI acted as a contractor (though
admittedly not one so named in the Agreement) and received payment despite
being unlicensed. That BCI did not directly contract with the Scholers is not
dispositive on demurrer. OVERRULED. 