 Case Number:  23STCV24638    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for Interlocutory Summary  Judgment   Moving Party: Plaintiff  Abraham Carmona  Resp. Party:    None     The Motion for Interlocutory Summary Judgment is DENIED without  prejudice.      BACKGROUND:           On October 10, 2023, Plaintiff Abraham Carmona  filed his Verified Complaint for Partition by Sale of Real Property against  Defendant Hilda Mendoza.    On November 29, 2023, Defendant, in propria persona, filed her  Answer to the Complaint.            On March 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed his  Motion for Interlocutory Summary Judgment. In support of his Motion, Plaintiff  concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Abraham Carmona; (2) Separate Statement;  (3) Proposed Order; and (4) Proof of Service.            No opposition or other response has been  filed to the Motion.    ANALYSIS:   I.           Legal Standard   “A party may  move for summary judgment in an action or proceeding if it is contended that  the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or  proceeding. The motion may be made at any time after 60 days have elapsed since  the general appearance in the action or proceeding of each party against whom  the motion is directed or at any earlier time after the general appearance that  the court, with or without notice and upon good cause shown, may direct.” (Code  Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (a)(1).)   “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion  that there is no triable issue of fact and that he is entitled to judgment as a  matter of law. That is because of the general principle that a party who seeks  a court’s action in his favor bears the burden of persuasion thereon. There is  a triable issue of material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a  reasonable trier of fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party  opposing the motion in accordance with the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar  v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850, citation omitted.)    “[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of  production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable  issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of production, he causes a  shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of  his own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of  material fact.” (Aguilar, supra, at p. 850; Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135  Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474, [applying the summary judgment standards in Aguilar  to motions for summary adjudication].)    “On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what  inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from  the evidence. While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in  mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine  issues. Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the  issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues  must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75  Cal.App.4th 832, 839, citation omitted.)    “The trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a fact  finder to determine whose version is more likely true. Nor may the trial court  grant summary judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Binder,  supra, at p. 840, citations omitted; see also Weiss v. People ex rel.  Dep’t of Transp. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for  summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must  instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all  reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].)    “On a motion for summary adjudication, the trial court has no  discretion to exercise. If a triable issue of material fact exists as to the  challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable  issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise  Corp. v. Super. Ct. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320, citation omitted.)    II.        Discussion   Plaintiff moves the Court for summary  adjudication in this matter, which would include an order to partition the real  property by sale and to split the proceeds equally. (Motion, p. 5:19–24.)   Defendant has not opposed or otherwise responded to the Motion.    “Notice of the motion and supporting papers shall  be served on all other parties to the action at least 75 days before the time  appointed for hearing. If the notice is served by mail, the required 75-day  period of notice shall be increased by 5 days if the place of address is within  the State of California, 10 days if the place of address is outside the State  of California but within the United States, and 20 days if the place of address  is outside the United States. If the notice is served by facsimile  transmission, express mail, or another method of delivery providing for  overnight delivery, the required 75-day period of notice shall be increased by  two court days.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (a)(2).)           Here, Plaintiff filed  the Motion for Interlocutory Summary Judgment on March 12, 2024. The hearing on  the Motion is April 16, 2024. That is only 31 days — far less than the amount  required by statute. Plaintiff has not made the Court aware of any authority  that would allow for a shortened period in which to hear the Motion. Thus, this  Motion is unripe.    III.      Conclusion   The Motion for Interlocutory Summary Judgment is DENIED without  prejudice.              If Plaintiff  wishes to refile a Motion for Summary Judgment that is properly filed and  served pursuant to the Code of Civil Procedure, he may do so.