  Case Number:  21STCV35963    Hearing Date:   April 16, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding of
Verdict
 
Moving Party: Defendant
City of Los Angeles 
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Edward Prokop
 
SUBJECT:        Motion for New Trial
 
Moving Party: Defendant
City of Los Angeles 
Resp. Party:    Plaintiff Edward Prokop
 
 
        The Motion for New Trial is DENIED. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On September 29,
2021, Plaintiff Edward Prokop filed his Complaint against Defendant City of Los
Angeles on causes of action of harassment and discrimination in violation of
the Fair Employment and Housing Act (“FEHA”). 
 
On December 20, 2023,
by request of Plaintiff, the Clerk’s Office dismissed without prejudice the
first cause of action for harassment from the Complaint. 
 
From January 23 to
29, 2024, the Court held a jury trial in this matter. The Jury found in favor
of Plaintiff and against Defendant on the sole cause of action for
discrimination. The Jury found $700,000.00 in damages. 
 
On February 26, 2024,
the Court entered Judgment in this matter. 
 
On March 12, 2024,
Defendant filed: (1) Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding of Verdict; (2) Notice
of Intention to Move for New Trial; and (3) Judicial Council Form MC-010,
Memorandum of Costs (Summary). 
 
On March 20, 2024,
the Clerk’s Office mailed Notice of Hearing of Motion for New Trial pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure sections 659 and 661.
 
On March 22, 2024,
Defendant filed: (1) Memorandum of Points and Authorities in Support of Motion
for Judgment Notwithstanding of Verdict (“JNOV Memorandum”); (2) Memorandum of
Points and Authorities in Support of Motion for New Trial (“New Trial
Memorandum”); (3) Combined Compendium of Exhibits in Support of Motion for
Judgment Notwithstanding Verdict and Motion for New Trial (“Defendant’s
Compendium”); (4) Declaration of Christopher Cianci; (5) Declaration of Ralph
Bradley; (6) Proposed Order Granting Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding of
Verdict; (7) Proposed Order Granting New Trial; and (8) Proof of Service. 
 
On April 2, 2024,
Plaintiff filed: (1) Opposition to Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding the
Verdict (“Opposition to JNOV”); (2) Opposition to Motion for New Trial
(“Opposition to New Trial”); (3) Compendium of Evidence in Opposition to Motion
for Judgment Notwithstanding the Verdict (“Plaintiff’s JNOV Compendium”); and
(4) Compendium of Evidence in Opposition to Motion for New Trial (“Plaintiff’s
New Trial Compendium”). 
 
On April 8, 2024,
Defendant filed: (1) Reply in Support of Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding of
Verdict (“Reply to JNOV”); and (2) Reply in Support of Motion for New Trial
(“Reply to New Trial”). 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Motion
for JNOV
 
A. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“The court, before the expiration of its power to rule on a
motion for a new trial, either of its own motion, after five days’ notice, or
on motion of a party against whom a verdict has been rendered, shall render
judgment in favor of the aggrieved party notwithstanding the verdict whenever a
motion for a directed verdict for the aggrieved party should have been granted
had a previous motion been made.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 629, subd. (a).)
 
“The trial judge’s power to
grant a judgment notwithstanding the verdict is identical to his power to grant
a directed verdict. The trial judge cannot weigh the evidence, or judge the
credibility of witnesses. If the evidence is conflicting or if several
reasonable inferences may be drawn, the motion for judgment notwithstanding the
verdict should be denied.” (Hauter v. Zogarts (1975) 14 Cal.3d
104, 110, citations omitted, scrivener’s error corrected.)
 
“A motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict of a jury
may properly be granted only if it appears from the evidence, viewed in the
light most favorable to the party securing the verdict, that there is no
substantial evidence to support the verdict. If there is any substantial
evidence, or reasonable inferences to be drawn therefrom, in support of the
verdict, the motion should be denied.” (Brandenburg
v. Pac. Gas & Elec. Co. (1946) 28 Cal.2d 282, 284, citations omitted.)
 
B. 
    Discussion
 
1. 
    The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Defendant moves the Court to enter judgment notwithstanding the verdict
in favor of Defendant. (JNOV Memorandum, p. 15:1–4.) Defendant argues: (1) that
Plaintiff must show an adverse employment action; (2) that Plaintiff made a
deficient evidentiary showing; and (3) that placement in the Support Service
Group did not prevent or impede promotion. (Id. at pp. 8:15, 9:15,
10:2–3.)
 
Plaintiff disagrees, arguing that the evidence overwhelmingly supports
the Jury’s conclusion that Plaintiff’s involuntary transfer to the Support
Services Group was an adverse employment action. (Opposition to JNOV, p.
5:1–3.)
 
        Defendant reiterates its arguments in
its Reply. 
 
2. 
    Legal
Standard for Discrimination
 
“It is an unlawful
employment practice, unless based upon a bona fide occupational qualification .
. . [f]or an employer, because of the race, religious creed, color, national
origin, ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, reproductive health
decisionmaking, medical condition, genetic information, marital status, sex,
gender, gender identity, gender expression, age, sexual orientation, or veteran
or military status of any person, to refuse to hire or employ the person or to
refuse to select the person for a training program leading to employment, or to
bar or to discharge the person from employment or from a training program
leading to employment, or to discriminate against the person in compensation or
in terms, conditions, or privileges of employment.” (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd.
(a).)
 
3. 
    Discussion
 
There was substantial evidence supporting the Jury’s finding that
Plaintiff was discriminated against in his terms, conditions, and privileges of
employment on the basis of his military status. 
 
Specifically, Plaintiff presented credible declaratory evidence from
himself, his wife, and other witnesses that support the following findings: 
 
(1)      
a move
from Special Operations Group to Support Services Group was understood to be a
demotion by both the leadership and rank-and-file of the Los Angeles Police
Department; 
 
(2)      
a move
from Special Operations Group to Support Services Group was — in fact, if not
on the organizational chart — a demotion;
 
(3)      
the move
from Special Operations Group to Support Services Group precluded Plaintiff
from further promotions to his desired position of Deputy Chief of CTSOB; 
 
(4)      
the move
from Special Operations Group to Support Services Group was involuntary in that
Plaintiff did not wish to make that move and was not consulted about that move
prior to it being decided for him by his superiors at the Los Angeles Police
Department; 
 
(5)      
Plaintiff’s
superiors moved Plaintiff from Special Operations Group to Support Services
Group because of his military status; and 
 
(6)      
Plaintiff
was harmed in his professional reputation and in other non-economic ways by
this involuntary move.
 
This evidence, “viewed in the light most favorable” to Plaintiff, is
sufficient to support the Jury’s finding that, in violation of the FEHA,
Plaintiff had been discriminated in his terms, conditions, and privileges of
employment on the basis of his military status. (Brandenburg, supra,
28 Cal.2d at p. 284.)
 
        On a motion for judgment notwithstanding
the verdict, the Court “cannot weigh the evidence, or judge the credibility of
witnesses.” (Hauter, supra,
14 Cal.3d at p. 110.) Because there is substantial evidence and reasonable
inferences to be drawn therefrom in support of the Jury’s verdict — that
unlawful discrimination occurred here because of Plaintiff’s military status —
the Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding of Verdict must be denied. (Brandenburg, supra, 28 Cal.2d at p. 284.)
 
C. 
    Conclusion
 
The Motion for Judgment Notwithstanding of
Verdict is DENIED. 
 
II.      
Motion
for New Trial
 
A. 
    Legal
Standard
 
“A new trial is a
re-examination of an issue of fact in the same court after a trial and decision
by a jury, court, or referee.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 656.)
 
“The verdict may be vacated and any other
decision may be modified or vacated, in whole or in part, and a new or further
trial granted on all or part of the issues, on the application of the party
aggrieved, for any of the following causes, materially affecting the
substantial rights of such party: 
 
“1. Irregularity in the proceedings of the
court, jury or adverse party, or any order of the court or abuse of discretion
by which either party was prevented from having a fair trial.
 
“2. Misconduct of the jury; and whenever any
one or more of the jurors have been induced to assent to any general or special
verdict, or to a finding on any question submitted to them by the court, by a
resort to the determination of chance, such misconduct may be proved by the
affidavit of any one of the jurors.
 
. . . 
 
“5. Excessive or inadequate damages.
 
“6. Insufficiency of the evidence to justify
the verdict or other decision, or the verdict or other decision is against law.
 
“7. Error in law, occurring at the trial and
excepted to by the party making the application.
 
“When a new trial is granted, on all or part
of the issues, the court shall specify the ground or grounds upon which it is
granted and the court’s reason or reasons for granting the new trial upon each
ground stated.
 
“A new trial shall not be granted upon the
ground of insufficiency of the evidence to justify the verdict or other
decision, nor upon the ground of excessive or inadequate damages, unless after
weighing the evidence the court is convinced from the entire record, including
reasonable inferences therefrom, that the court or jury clearly should have
reached a different verdict or decision.
 
“The order passing upon and determining the
motion must be made and entered as provided in Section 660 and if the motion is
granted must state the ground or grounds relied upon by the court, and may
contain the specification of reasons. If an order granting such motion does not
contain such specification of reasons, the court must, within 10 days after
filing such order, prepare, sign and file such specification of reasons in
writing with the clerk. The court shall not direct the attorney for a party to
prepare either or both said order and said specification of reasons. . . .”
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
657.)
 
 
B. 
    Discussion
 
1. 
    The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Defendant moves the Court to order a new trial. (New Trial Memorandum,
p. 18:22–23.)
 
        Defendant argues: (1) that there was an
irregularity in the proceedings of the court; (2) that there was an
irregularity in the proceedings of the jury; (3) that there was an irregularity
in the proceedings of the adversary; (4) that the evidence is insufficient to
support the verdict; and (5) that the damages awarded are excessive. (New Trial
Memorandum, pp. 8:19, 10:23, 11:20, 12:18, 15:14.)
 
        Plaintiff disagrees, arguing: (1) that
Defendant waived these arguments by not making timely objections; (2) that the
Court’s remarks to the Jury were not improper; (3) that Defendant waived any
objections to the use of a general verdict form; (4) that the juror affidavit
presented by Defendant does not show any prejudice; (5) that Defendant waived
any objections to Plaintiff’s Counsel’s remarks during the closing argument;
(6) that Defendant is not entitled to a new trial based on alleged insufficiency
of the evidence; and (7) that the damages award is not excessive or based on
passion or prejudice. (Opposition to New Trial, pp. 5:5–6, 5:20–24, 6:23, 8:1,
8:12–13, 10:21–22, 11:7–8.)
 
        Defendant reiterates its arguments in
its Reply.  
 
2. 
    The
Court Proceedings were Not Irregular 
 
Defendant argues that the court proceedings were irregular.
Specifically, Defendant points to alleged issues with: (1) the Court’s opening
remarks; and (2) the use of a general verdict form. (New Trial Memorandum, p.
9:12–28.)
 
“The rule is well
settled that when at any time during
trial a party or his counsel becomes aware of facts constituting misconduct or
irregularity in the proceedings of the jury, he must promptly bring such
matters to the attention of the court, if he
desires to object to it, or he will be deemed to have waived the point as a
ground for a motion for a new trial.” (Weathers v. Kaiser Found. Hosps. (1971)
5 Cal.3d 98, 103, citations omitted.)
 
Here, Defendant did not object during trial to the Court’s opening
remarks or to the use of a general verdict form. Thus, Defendant waived these
objections as grounds for a motion for a new trial. 
 


 
3. 
    The Jury’s Verdict was Not Irregular
 
Defendant argues that the jury proceedings were irregular. Specifically,
Defendant argues that the Jury did not actually unanimously find in favor of
Plaintiff. (New Trial Memorandum, pp. 10:24–11:19.)
 
For multiple reasons, the Court disagrees. 
 
First, Defendant did not object to any irregularity with the jury proceedings
at the time polling occurred (or even after the jurors had been dismissed),
despite the statement of the Jury Foreman at the time polling occurred.
(Defendant’s Compendium, Exh. 7.) Thus, this issue is waived. (Keener v.
Jeld-Wen, Inc. (2009) 46 Cal.4th 247, 262 [“As explained below, by not
objecting to the incomplete polling, defendants forfeited their right to assert
that the failure to poll . . . rendered that part of the verdict invalid.”].)
 
Second, the Jury submitted a general verdict, not a special verdict.
California courts have long applied “the settled rule that a general verdict implies a
finding in favor of the prevailing party of every fact essential to the support
of his action or defense.” (Henderson v. Harnischfeger Corp. (1974)
12 Cal.3d 663, 673, citations omitted.) Thus, the Jury’s unanimous affirmative
assent at polling to the cause of action implied the finding in favor of
Plaintiff of every fact (and element) essential to that cause of action. 
 
Third, even if the Jury had submitted a special verdict and different
Jurors did vote differently on various elements of the cause of action, such a
scenario still would not preclude an ultimate finding in favor of Plaintiff on
the cause of action. It is settled that the same nine jurors need not
find in favor of each of the elements for a cause of action. (Resche v.
Volkswagen of Am., Inc. (1984) 36 Cal.3d 676, 678, 682–683.)
 
In this case, of course, the jury
was given a general verdict.  CACI 5022, which was given to the jury, is
clear on this issue:  
 
“You should review the elements addressed in the other
instructions that I have given you and determine if at least nine of you agree
that each element has been proven by the evidence received in the trial. The
same nine do not have to agree on each element.”  
 
In other words, in a general verdict – as in a special
verdict – the same nine jurors do not need to agree on each element of the
cause of action. 
 
Finally, the only evidence Defendant submits on this issue is the
declaration of juror Ralph Bradley, who declares that “three jurors stated they
did not agree and did not think there was an adverse employment action.” (Decl.
Bradley, ¶ 8.) This evidence does not tend to show that there was an
irregularity in the jury proceedings. Rather, this juror’s declaration shows
that at least nine jurors agreed that Plaintiff had proven his cause of action.
Because at least nine of twelve jurors found that Plaintiff prevailed, that was
sufficient under California law. (Code Civ. Proc., § 618.)
 
4. 
    The
Evidence Presented was Not Irregular
 
Defendant argues that the evidence presented regarding damages was
improper. Specifically, Defendant argues that Plaintiff introduced evidence of
economic damages even though Plaintiff only sought non-economic damages, which
in turn led to reversable jury misconduct. (New Trial Memorandum, pp.
11:24–12:17.)
 
It is settled law that “failure to timely object to improper statements
in closing arguments forfeits any appellate challenge premised on such misconduct.”
(Pearl v. City of Los Angeles (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 475, 488, citing Horn
v. Atchison, T. & S. F. R. Co. (1964) 61 Cal.2d 602, 610.)
 
Here, Defendant did not timely object to the alleged introduction of
evidence on economic damages. Thus, this objection is waived. 
 
5. 
    The
Evidence was Sufficient to Support the Verdict
 
Defendant argues that the evidence is insufficient to support the
verdict. (New Trial Memorandum, p. 12:18.)
 
The Court has considered all of the evidence submitted to the Jury. Upon
weighing the evidence, the Court is not convinced that Jury clearly should have
reached a different verdict or decision. (Code Civ. Proc., § 657.) Rather,
Plaintiff submitted to the Jury sufficient evidence for the Jury to reasonably
conclude that Plaintiff had been impermissibly discriminated against on the
basis of his military status, in contravention of the FEHA. 
 
 
6.     The Damages Award was Not Excessive
 
Defendant argues that the damages award was excessive. (New Trial
Memorandum, p. 15:14; Reply to New Trial, p. 5:25.)
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant presented significant evidence of his
emotional distress, including public humiliation. (Opposition to New Trial, p.
13:1–2.)
 
        The Court agrees with Plaintiff’s
argument. The Court is not convinced from the entire record, including
reasonable inferences therefrom, that the Jury clearly should have reached a
different verdict. (Code Civ. Proc., § 657.) 
 


 
Our Supreme Court has recognized
that “there is no fixed or absolute standard by which to compute the monetary
value of emotional distress.” (Pool v. City of Oakland (1986) 42 Cal.3d
1051, 1067, fn. 17, quoting Merlo v. Standard Life & Acc. Ins. Co. (1976)
59 Cal.App.3d 5, 17.) However, the Supreme Court has also recognized that
“[w]hen the award as a matter of law appears excessive, or where the recovery
is so grossly disproportionate as to raise a presumption that it is result of
passion or prejudice, the duty is then imposed upon the reviewing court to
act.” (Cunningham v. Simpson (1969) 1 Cal.3d 301, 308–309, quoting Rosenberg
v. J. C. Penney Co. (1939) 30 Cal.App.2d 609, 628.)
 
This Court is unaware of any
California appellate case that puts a limit on “garden-variety” emotional
distress.  This Court has previously
granted a remittitur in a FEHA case against the Los Angeles Police Department.  (Glick v. City of Los Angeles, 20STCV00320.)
 The Court assumes that Defense counsel
is aware of that case because the Los Angeles City Attorney’s Office represented
the Defendant in both that case and the present case.  In Glick v. City of Los Angeles, one
of the two defendants was awarded $8,000,000.00 for “garden-variety” emotional
distress.  In granting a remittitur, the
Court stated  that “[w]hile the Court is
not making a hard-and-fast rule as to the maximum amount that can be awarded
for garden-variety emotional distress, it is certainly not . . . $8,000,000.00
based on the scant evidence provided at trial.” 

 
        However, these are two different
cases.  The evidence in this case indicated
significant emotional harms had been suffered, and a reasonable Jury could have
found that Plaintiff was harmed in the amount of $700,000.00. 
 
 
        C.     Conclusion
 
        The Motion for New Trial is DENIED. 
 
 