  Case Number:  23BBCV01900    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  A SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTH CENTRAL DISTRICT, DEPARTMENT A
 



 
GARY PANTALEO AND KATHLEEN PANTALEO,
PLAINTIFFS
v.
christopher valentine and christian tolen von lahr,
  
defendants
 


 
  Case No.: 
  23BBCV01900
 
  Hearing Date:  November 12, 2024
 
RULING
  ON :
DEFENSE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT



NOTE:   This ruling is being published on the Court’s
tentative ruling system to make it available to the parties forthwith.   That is for the convenience of the parties
and is not intended to indicate that this ruling is a tentative ruling or soliciting
further argument.
 
The Defendants
filed an ex parte motion to have their Motion for Summary Judgment advanced and
heard before trial.   The Court granted
the request and set the matter for argument on November 12, 2024.   Plaintiff filed no opposition, but did file
a declaration on November 12, 2024 supporting their oral opposition.  Plaintiff asserted that an opposition was
filed on Saturday November 10, 2024, but this was not received by the
Court.   The matter was argued on November
12, 2024 and taken under submission.  
The Court now issues its ruling.
 
ALLEGATIONS:
Defendants brought
this Motion for Summary Judgment asserting two reasons for granting the
motion.   First that the Notice to Pay
Rent or Quit was defective as it sought rent which was protected by the Los
Angeles County COVID 19 Moratorium (“Moratorium”) and that pursuant to CCP
§116.223 the jurisdiction for this matter lies with the Small Claims Court and
not with an Independent Calendar Civil Court.
Plaintiff asserted
that on Saturday November 10 they filed an opposition with supporting
declarations; however, the Court has not received any such opposition.   Opposition was argued orally and a
declaration opposing the motion was filed asserting that the Defendants did not
provide declarations concerning their financial status under penalty of perjury
or provide any supporting financial information in addition to their
self-certification.  Plaintiff further
argued that Defendants did not assert financial hardship within 7 days of each
month the rent was due, and therefore any forbearance of prior rent that may
have been delayed due to COVID 19 financial hardship was no longer excused.
 
ANALYSIS:  
I.               
LEGAL STANDARD 
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) C.C.P.¿§ 437c(c) “requires the
trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to¿any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function
of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of
the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose
whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”¿ (Juge¿v. County of Sacramento¿(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,
citing¿FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima¿(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367,
381-382.)¿ 
¿ 
As to each claim as framed by the
complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial
burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to
establish a defense. (C.C.P.¿§437c(p)(2);¿Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.¿(2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿ 
¿ 
Once the defendant has met that burden,
the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto. To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v.¿Paetkau¿(1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)¿ 
 
CCP §116.223(a)(4) discusses the need to
provide the expedited ability for landlords to seek judicial redress for COVID
19 related rent, and as such permits the use of the Small Claims Court to seek
redress.
 
II.             
MERITS 
 
Plaintiffs
and Defendants entered a lease in March of 2016.   Defendants assert that due to COVID 19
financial hardship they were unable to pay rent and on August 2, 2023,
Plaintiffs issued a Three-Day Notice to Pay Rent or Quit.  The Three-Day Notice demanded past rent which
included both rent accrued during the moratorium period and post moratorium
rent.
Under
the Moratorium, the “Protections Period” was from March 4, 2020 through March
31, 2023. (Moratorium IV. L).  This
includes both the initial Protected Time Period and the Extension Protections
Period.  Under its own terms, the
Moratorium expired on March 31, 2023. (Moratorium V.A.1). 
To
qualify, a tenant must self-certify their income level and financial hardship to
pay rent within seven days of the rent becoming due.  Finally, a tenant whose household income is
at 80% of the Area Median Income and was unable to pay rent incurred from July
1, 2022 through March 31, 2023 shall have 12 months thereafter to repay such
rental debt.
Small
Claims Court
Defendants
argue that the Small Claim Court has jurisdiction over the COVID 19 related
rental debt, and this Court does not have jurisdiction.   The Court disagrees.   Section 116.223 was designed to permit a
landlord an option to use the Small Claims Court to seek an expedited remedy
for unpaid rent during the applicable time period.   It did not rest sole jurisdiction in the
Small Claims Court nor did it grant a Small Claims Court the ability to return
possession to the owner under an unlawful detainer action.
Defective
Three-Day Notice
Plaintiffs argue
that Defendants were required under the Moratorium to provide the requisite
financial hardship notice every month, and their failure to do so timely
renders the Three-Day Notice valid.   The
Court disagrees.  The Three-Day Notice to
pay rent must accurately state the amount that is due.  CCP §11161(2).  A notice that overstates the amount of rent
due is ineffective and will not support an unlawful detainer action.  Levitz Furniture Co. v. Wingtip
Communications, Inc. (2001) 86 Cal App 4th 1035, 1038.  Even a minor overstatement of the rent due
may be sufficient to render the notice defective.  Nourafchan v. Miner (1985) 169 Cal.
App 3d 746, 753 (an overstatement of $5.96 when more than $1,000 in rent was
due rendered the three-day notice defective).
 
In this instance, a
single notice that a hardship existed would have resulted in a defect to the Three-Day
Notice which would overstated the rent due. 
However, the Three-Day Notice is only deemed defective if the rent due during
the COVID abatement period is deferred.  Pursuant
to the Moratorium, section VI. C, the rent is only deferred for 12 months if
the tenant had a household income of 80% Area Median Income as that term is
defined by the ordinance.  In reviewing
the declaration filed by Christopher Valentine, information concerning their
income was noticeably absent.  He only
avers that he and Mr. Von Lahr sent notices to the landlord that their income was
below the threshold without more, such as stating their actual income for this
period.  While this may have been sufficient
to defer the rent during the moratorium period, once that ended, to benefit
from the 12 month repayment option they must show in this Summary Judgment that
they in fact fell into that category. 
The ordinance does not state that a tenant who had rent deferred from
self-certification can automatically defer repayment for 12 months, but rather
a tenant who was unable to pay rent.  The
Defendants were obligated to present evidence they were unable to pay
rent.  They failed to do so.  The conclusory statements in Valentine’s
declaration is insufficient for purposes of meeting the standard of a summary
judgment.
Furthermore, no
declaration was filed concerning Mr. Von Lahr.  
Mr. Valentine’s conclusions as to Mr. Von Lahr are without foundation as
set forth in the declaration.  Based on
the evidence presented, the Court is unable to say there is no triable issue of
material fact.
 
III.           
 CONCLUSION
The Defendants
presented insufficient evidence to support their Motion for Summary
Judgment.   The Summary Judgment is
denied.
In it so ordered.
 
November
13, 2024                                        /s/
F.M. Tavelman_______
                                                                        F.M. TAVELMAN, Judge
                                                                        Superior Court of California
                                                                        County of Los Angeles
 