  Case Number:  23CHCV00164    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  F51  MAY 7, 2024    DEMURRER  Los Angeles Superior Court Case  # 23CHCV00164    Demurrer Filed: 12/4/23   MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendant Amazon.com, Inc.  (“Cross-Defendant”) RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant  Guillermo Neuenschwander Grupp (“Cross-Complainant”)  NOTICE: OK    RELIEF REQUESTED: Cross-Defendant  demurs against Cross-Complainant’s entire cross-complaint.   TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is sustained with 30 days leave to amend.   BACKGROUND    This is a personal  injury action in which Plaintiff alleges that on 2/16/21, he was injured in a  motor vehicle collision between his vehicle and that operated by defendants  Uber Technologies, Inc. and Guillermo Neuenschwander Grupp. (Compl. p. 5.)   On 1/20/23,  Plaintiff filed his complaint against Defendants, alleging the following causes  of action: (1) Motor Vehicle Negligence; and (2) General Negligence. On 9/21/23,  Cross-Complainant filed his cross complaint, alleging against Cross-Defendant  the following causes of action: (1) Comparative Indemnity and Apportionment of  Fault; (2) Total Equitable Indemnity; (3) Contribution; and (4) Declaratory  Relief.   On 12/4/23,  Cross-Defendant filed its demurrer against the cross-complaint. On 4/17/24, Cross-Complainant  filed his opposition. No reply has been filed to date.   ANALYSIS   As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading  against it by demurrer on the basis of any single or combination of eight  enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action” and is uncertain, meaning  “ambiguous and unintelligible.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and  (f).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the  pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.  (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿   “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence  or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs.  (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the  complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The  only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,  states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th  740, 747.)    Here, Cross-Defendant  demurs to the entire cross-complaint, arguing that Cross-Complainant fails to  allege facts sufficient to constitute any of the causes of action contained  therein, therefore rendering the cross-complaint fatally uncertain.   A.    Meet  and Confer   Before filing its demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet  and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that  is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can  be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a).) The demurring party must file and  serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which the  demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject  to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the  objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the party who filed the  pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request  of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.” (Id.  at subd. (a)(3).)   Here, counsel for Cross-Defendant declares that on 11/29/23,  he and Cross-Complainant’s counsel met and conferred telephonically regarding  the issues raised in the instant demurrer, but the parties were unable to  resolve the dispute. (Decl. of John-Michael Salas, ¶¶ 4–5.) Therefore, the  Court finds that counsel has satisfied the preliminary meet and confer  requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a).   B.     Factual  Sufficiency   Cross-Complainant  alleges against Cross-Defendant the following causes of action: (1) Comparative  Indemnity and Apportionment of Fault; (2) Total Equitable Indemnity; (3)  Contribution; and (4) Declaratory Relief. “To state a claim for equitable indemnity,  a defendant must allege the same harm for which he may be held liable is  properly attributable—at least in part—to the cross-defendant.” (Platt v.  Coldwell Banker Residential Real Estate Services (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d  1439, 1445, fn.7.) A claim for contribution requires allegations of (1) “a  money judgment,” (2) “rendered jointly against two or more defendants in a tort  action,” (3) “in accordance with the principles of equity,” (4) “after one  tortfeasor has, by payment, discharged the joint judgment or has paid more than  his pro rata share thereof,” (5) without intentional injury by the tortfeasor.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 875, subds. (a)-(d).) “To qualify for declaratory relief, a  party would have to demonstrate its action presented two essential elements:  (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy  involving justiciable questions relating to the party’s rights or obligations.”  (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909.)   Here,  Cross-Defendant argues that Cross-Complainant “does not state how Amazon  contributed to the occurrence of the incident, or whether Amazon or its  employees or contractors were even present at the scene of the incident at all.”  (Dem. 1:8–10.) “Grupp glaringly fails to allege what conduct Amazon did or  failed to do which makes it responsible for the alleged injuries suffered by  Plaintiff.” (Id. at 3:5–6.) “Therefore, without facts supporting the  causes of action for indemnity and contribution, there are no facts supporting the  existence of a controversy at all.” (Id. at 4:26–5:1.)   In  opposition, Cross-Complainant presents factual allegations extrinsic to his  cross-complaint. (Opp. 2:3–18.) Cross-Complainant further presents extensive argument  pertaining to pending discovery motions he filed against Cross-Defendant. (Id.  at 4:11–6:11.) To this extent, the Court declines to consider these  arguments as they are irrelevant in a demurrer proceeding. Here, the Court is  concerned only with whether the cross-complaint states any valid causes of  action against Cross-Defendant.   Cross-Complainant  contends that the “Demurrer is solely based on the argument that the  Cross-Complaint’s causes of action for Equitable Indemnity, Apportionment of  Fault, Contribution, and Declaratory Relief fail to constitute causes of action  because they are uncertain.” (Id. at 3:2–4.) The Court finds otherwise,  as both Cross-Defendant’s notice of demurrer and corresponding memorandum cite  Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e) as a basis for the  demurrer against each cause of action. (Not. of Dem. 2:5–17; Dem. 1:17–19,  1:22–24.)   Upon review  of both Plaintiff’s complaint and Cross-Complainant’s cross-complaint, the  Court finds no factual allegations stated pertaining to Cross-Defendant’s  alleged conduct. Plaintiff did not name Cross-Defendant as a defendant in this  action. To the extent that Cross-Complainant purportedly discovered facts to  support a claim for indemnity against Cross-Defendant, those facts are not  alleged in his cross-complaint.    Based on  the foregoing, the Court finds that Cross-Complainant has not alleged facts  sufficient to constitute any causes of action against Cross-Defendant. Accordingly,  the demurrer is sustained against the entire cross-complaint on this basis.   C.    Uncertainty   Generally  speaking, “demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and thus are strictly  construed because ambiguities can reasonably be clarified under modern rules of  discovery. Such demurrers are granted only if the pleading is so  incomprehensible that defendant cannot reasonably respond.” (Cal.Jur.3d § 137.)  “Where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently  apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for  uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.” (Williams  v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (2011) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 fn.2.)    Here, Cross-Defendant  argues that the cross-complaint is uncertain pursuant to Code of Civil  Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f). In applying the stringent standard  for demurrers filed on this ground, the Court finds that while it is factually  deficient, the cross-complaint is not “so incomprehensible” that Cross-Defendant  cannot respond. Accordingly, the demurrer is overruled on this ground.   D.    Leave  to Amend   Where a  demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a  reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy  (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court  that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube,  LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any  reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it  is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada  Irrigation Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).    Here, the  Court notes that Cross-Complainant specifically requests leave to amend in the  event the Court sustain the instant demurrer, and that this is the first  demurrer brought against Cross-Complainant’s cross-complaint. Therefore, under  the Court’s liberal policy of granting leave to amend, Cross-Complainant is  granted 30 days leave to amend the cross-complaint to cure the defects set  forth above.   CONCLUSION    The demurrer is  sustained with 30 days leave to amend.