 Case Number:  21STCV16654    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




the park at cross creek, llc

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
debello holdings, llc

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV16654




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   22, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendant’s
  demurrer to first amended complaint
(2)  
  defendant’s
  motion to strike attorney’s fees in first amended complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant RTC Design and Build,
Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff The Park at Cross Creek, LLC
(1)  
Demurrer
to First Amended Complaint
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant RTC Design and Build,
Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
(2)  
Motion
to Strike Attorney’s Fees in First Amended Complaint 
The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in
connection with the demurrer.  
The court considered the moving papers filed in connection with the
motion to strike.  No opposition or reply
papers were filed in connection with the motion to strike.
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff The Park at Cross Creek, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed the
operative First Amended Complaint in this action on May 26, 2022, against
defendants Debello Holdings, LLC and RTC Design & Build, Inc.  The First Amended Complaint alleges three
causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) negligence, and (3) unjust
enrichment / restitution. 
Defendant RTC Design and Build, Inc. (“Defendant”) now moves the court
for an order (1) sustaining its demurrer to all the causes of action alleged by
Plaintiff, and (2) striking from the First Amended Complaint the request for
attorney’s fees.  
DEMURRER
The court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the First Amended
Complaint on the ground of uncertainty because the First Amended Complaint is
not ambiguous or unintelligible.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) 
The court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action
for breach of contract because it states facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action since Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged (1) that the subject
agreement was intended to benefit Plaintiff because it contemplated work being
performed to improve Plaintiff’s real property (FAC ¶ 9) and therefore Plaintiff
has alleged sufficient facts to show that it is a third-party beneficiary of
the agreement, and (2) the legal effect of the agreement.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); The
H.N. & Frances C. Berger Foundation v. Perez (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 37,
43 [“a person seeking to enforce a contract as a third party beneficiary must
plead a contract which was made expressly for his [or her] benefit and one in
which it clearly appears that he [or she] was a beneficiary”] [internal
quotations omitted]; Miles v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 394, 402 [“‘a plaintiff may plead the legal effect of the
contract rather than its precise language’”].) 
The court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action
for negligence because it states facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action since Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged facts establishing (1) that Defendant
owed a duty to Plaintiff to exercise ordinary care in the performance of its
work on real property belonging to Plaintiff (FAC ¶¶ 7, 26) and (2) that Plaintiff
has suffered damages as a result of Defendant’s breach because Plaintiff will
have to expend funds to correct and repair the deficient work (FAC ¶
13-17, 28).  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.10, subd. (e); Peredia v. HR Mobile Services, Inc. (2018) 25
Cal.App.5th 680, 687 [“The elements of any negligence cause of action are duty,
breach of duty, proximate cause, and damages”].) 
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action
for unjust enrichment / restitution because, as pleaded, it does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).)  
The court acknowledges that Plaintiff (1) has alleged facts showing
that Defendant has received benefits at the expense of Plaintiff and (2) is
permitted to plead theories in the alternative. 
(Lyles v. Sangadeo-Patel (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 759, 769
[elements of claim for unjust enrichment]; Dubin v. Robert Newhall
Chesebrough Trust (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 465, 477 [“A plaintiff is permitted
to plead alternative inconsistent theories”].)  However, in order to support a claim for
unjust enrichment or restitution under a quasi-contract theory, Plaintiff must
allege, in the alternative, that if the subject agreement is invalid, then
Plaintiff is entitled to recover restitution. 
(Klein v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1389
[“Although a plaintiff may plead inconsistent claims that allege both the
existence of an enforceable agreement and the absence of enforceable agreement,
that is not what occurred[;]” because the “unjust enrichment claim did not deny
the existence or enforceability of [the] agreement” the plaintiffs were
“precluded from asserting a quasi-contract claim under the theory of unjust
enrichment”].)  Plaintiff did not
alternatively allege that the subject agreement is invalid or unenforceable in
support of its third cause of action for unjust enrichment / restitution and
therefore has not alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
under those theories.  
The court also notes that Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint makes
reference to “Exhibit A” but does not attach that exhibit to the
complaint.  (FAC ¶ 19.)  Defendant has not cited authority
establishing that the failure to attach an exhibit renders the complaint
susceptible to demurrer and therefore overrules the demurrer on that
ground.  (Demurrer, p. 4:12-15.) 
MOTION TO STRIKE
Defendant moves the court for an order striking from Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint (1) the request for attorney’s fees in paragraph 31, and (2)
the request for attorney’s fees in paragraph 10 of the prayer. 
The court grants Defendant’s motion to strike because Plaintiff has
not alleged that it may recover attorney’s fees from Defendant pursuant to
statute or contract and therefore finds that Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s
fees is unsupported and improper.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436.) 
ORDER

The court overrules defendant RTC Design and Build, Inc.’s demurrer to
plaintiff The Park at Cross Creek, LLC’s first and second causes of action. 
The court sustains defendant RTC Design and Build, Inc.’s demurrer to
plaintiff The Park at Cross Creek, LLC’s third cause of action for unjust
enrichment / restitution.
The court grants defendant RTC Design and Build, Inc.’s motion to
strike. 
The court grants plaintiff The Park at Cross Creek, LLC 20 days leave
to file a Second Amended Complaint that cures the defects set forth in this
order.
The court orders defendant RTC Design and Build, Inc. to give notice
of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 22, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court