 Case Number:  18STCV10413    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




leonor hernandez mata

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
a&a maintenance
   enterprise, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


18STCV10413




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


January
   22, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
plaintiff’s petition to confirm arbitration
  award
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff Leonor Hernandez Mata             
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant A&A Maintenance Enterprise,
Inc. 
Petition to Confirm Arbitration Award
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with
this petition. 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff Leonor Hernandez Mata (“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an
order                       (1)
confirming the arbitration award issued in favor of Plaintiff and against
defendant A&A Maintenance Enterprise, Inc. (“Defendant”) on October 20,
2023, and (2) entering partial judgment pursuant thereto.  (Pet., Ex. B, Final Award.)  
The Final Award issued by the arbitrator awarded to Plaintiff (1)
$78,674.71 in damages and civil penalties, (2) $4,976.63 in costs, and (3)
$219,179.20 in attorney’s fees.  (Pet.
Ex. B, Final Award, p. 2; Pet. Ex. B, Fourth Interim Award re Respondent’s
Motion to Tax Costs, pp. 6:1-3 [awarding costs in the total amount of
$4,976.63, excluding costs for transcripts, postage, and mediation]; Pet. Ex.
B, Third Interim Award Concerning Claimant’s Motion for Attorneys’ Fees, p.
11:9-12 [awarding attorney’s fees for a total of $215,179.20, excluding $6,023
for unnecessary entries prior to filing the arbitration and $760 for the
reduction in hourly rate, and using a 1.2 multiplier]; Pet. Ex. B, Second
Interim Award, pp. 2-3 [awarding total of $78,674.71 in damages and civil
penalties].) 
Defendant opposes Plaintiff’s petition and requests that the court
correct the arbitrator’s award to exclude various categories of costs and
attorney’s fees.
“Any party to an arbitration in which an award has been made may
petition the court to confirm, correct or vacate the award.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1285.)  
“[T]he court, unless it vacates the award pursuant to Section 1286.2,
shall correct the award and confirm it as corrected if the court determines
that: 
(a)  
There was an evident miscalculation of figures
or an evident mistake in the description of any person, thing or property
referred to in the award;  
(b)  
The arbitrators exceeded their powers but the
award may be corrected without affecting the merits of the decision upon the
controversy submitted; or  
(c)  
The award is imperfect in a matter of form, not
affecting the merits of the controversy.”  
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 1286.6.)  
“Arbitrators may exceed their powers when they act in a manner not
authorized by contract or by law, act without subject matter jurisdiction,
decide an issue that was not submitted to arbitration, arbitrarily remake the
contract, uphold an illegal contract, issue an award that violates a
well-defined public policy, issue an award that violates a statutory right,
fashion a remedy that is not rationally related to the contract, or select a
remedy not authorized by law.”  (Cohen
v. TNP 2008 Participating Notes Program, LLC (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 840,
868.) 
In its opposition, Defendant argues that, in awarding attorney’s fees
and costs to Plaintiff (1) for the fees incurred in the underlying judicial
proceeding and (2) for the fees incurred in mediation, the arbitrator exceeded
her powers, rendering the Final Award subject to correction by the court.  The court disagrees. 
First, Defendant contends that the arbitrator exceeded her authority
in awarding to Plaintiff attorney’s fees and costs incurred in the underlying judicial
proceeding.  
In the Third Interim Award Concerning Claimant’s Motion for Attorneys’
Fees, the arbitrator (1) found that some of the attorney’s fees incurred prior
to the initiation of arbitration was spent on tasks necessary for arbitration,
and specifically found that such work “would have had to have been performed
for the causes of action that were arbitrated even if the causes of action that
were not arbitrated had not existed[,]” and (2) in reviewing the accounting,
found that $6,023 of the billing entries were not needed for the arbitrated
claims and therefore deducted that amount from the fee award.  (Pet., Ex. B, Third Interim Award Concerning
Claimant’s Motion for Attorneys’ Fees, p. 5:6-10, 5:22-25.)  The arbitrator made the same findings as to
the award for costs.  (Pet. Ex. B, Fourth
Interim Award re Respondent’s Motion to Tax Costs, p. 4:9-16 [rejecting
argument that Plaintiff could not recover costs “for the same reasons expressed
in the Third Interim Award Regarding Attorneys’ Fees”].)  Defendant requests that the court correct the
Final Award (1) by deducting $893.80 in costs, and (2) by deducting $43,894.50
in attorney’s fees.  (Opp., pp. 5:3-4,
6:11-14.)
Defendant has cited DiMarco v. Chaney (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th
1809 and Heimlich v. Shivji (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 152, reversed on other
grounds in Heimlich v. Shivji (2019) 7 Cal.5th 350, in support of its
assertion that the arbitrator was not permitted to award fees and costs
incurred in the judicial proceeding.  The
DiMarco Court, upon concluding that the arbitrator exceeded his powers
in declining to award attorney’s fees to the prevailing party, observed the
following:  “Once the arbitrator makes a
determination as to the amount of attorney fees and costs to which [the
prevailing party] is entitled for the arbitration proceeding, [the prevailing
party] may move in the superior court to confirm the award.  At that juncture, [the prevailing party] may
bring a noticed motion . . . to recover the reasonable amount of the attorney
fees and costs which she incurred in judicial proceedings.”  (DiMarco, supra, 31 Cal.App.4th
at pp. 1815, 1817-1818 [emphasis in original omitted].)  
But the court finds that this language (1) does not require a
prevailing party to separately move for attorney’s fees as contemplated by
Defendant, and (2) does not bar an arbitrator from awarding attorney’s fees
incurred in judicial proceedings to a party where, as here, the arbitrator
determines that the compensated work would have been performed even if the
non-arbitrated claims had not existed.  
Moreover, the court notes that Defendant does not appear to argue that
Plaintiff was not statutorily permitted to recover attorney’s fees and
costs.  The arbitrator concluded that
Plaintiff was entitled to recover damages and/or civil penalties in connection
with her ninth, 11th, 12th, 13th, 14th, 15th, and 16th causes of action.  (Pet. Ex. B, Interim Award, pp. 60-64.)  The arbitrator further found that Plaintiff
was the prevailing party in arbitration. 
(Id. at p. 64:20.)  Several
provisions of the Labor Code that govern Plaintiff’s causes of action provide
that the prevailing party shall recover attorney’s fees and costs, such that
the arbitrator was permitted, pursuant to these statutes, to award Plaintiff her
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs. 
(Lab. Code, §§ 218.5, subd. (a) [“In any action brought for the
nonpayment of wages . . . the court shall award reasonable attorney’s fees and
costs to the prevailing party”], 226, subd. (e) [an employee suffering injury
as a result of an employer’s failure to comply with section 226, subdivision
(a) “is entitled to an award of costs and reasonable attorney’s fees”], 1194,
subd. (a) [“any employee receiving less than the legal minimum wage or the
legal overtime compensation . . . is entitled to recover . . . reasonable
attorney’s fees, and costs of suit”].) 
Thus, the court finds that the arbitrator did not exceed her powers in
awarding to Plaintiff the attorney’s fees and costs that were incurred in the
underlying judicial proceeding and that the arbitrator determined would have
been incurred even if the non-arbitrated claims had not existed. 
Second, Defendant contends that the arbitrator exceeded her authority
in awarding to Plaintiff attorney’s fees incurred in mediation.  Specifically, Defendant contends that,
because the parties agreed to split the costs of mediation, Plaintiff was not
permitted to recover attorney’s fees incurred for her counsel’s appearance at
mediation.  The court disagrees.  Although the court acknowledges that the
parties agreed to split the costs of mediation, Defendant did not present
evidence showing that they contemplated “costs” to include attorney’s
fees.  (Gilchrest Decl., Ex. 6,
Plaintiff’s Opposition to Defendant’s Motion to Tax Costs, p. 4:13-15 [“While
the parties did have an agreement to split the costs of the mediation evenly .
. . .”].)  The court also notes that, in
the arbitration awards, the arbitrator expressly excluded the $5,000 in
mediation costs pursuant to the parties’ agreement.  (Pet., Ex. B, Fourth Interim Award re
Respondent’s Motion to Tax Costs, p. 5:8-9 [“the case law indicates that the
parties’ agreement to split the costs of mediation prevails”], 5:22-23
[excluding from the cost award “$5,000 for mediation costs”].)  
Thus, the court finds that the arbitrator did not exceed her powers in
awarding Plaintiff reasonable attorney’s fees incurred in appearing for
mediation. 
Third, the court grants Plaintiff’s request to confirm the arbitration
award. 
The court finds that Plaintiff has satisfied the requirements for
confirmation of the arbitration award. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.4.) 
Plaintiff has (1) attached a copy of the arbitration agreement, (2) set
forth the name of the arbitrator (Hon. Rita Miller (Ret.)), and           (3) attached copies of the Final Award and
Interim Awards.  (Ibid.; Pet., Ex.
A [arbitration agreement]; Pet., p. 5:23 [naming the arbitrator]; Pet., Ex. B
[awards].)  
Thus, because (1) Plaintiff has satisfied the requirements of Code of
Civil Procedure section 1285.4, and (2) the court has determined that the award
should not be corrected as requested by Defendant, the court grants Plaintiff’s
request to confirm the arbitration award as made.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1286 [“the court
shall confirm the award as made . . . unless . . . it corrects the award and
confirms it as corrected, vacates the award or dismisses the
proceeding”].)  
Fourth, the court denies Plaintiff’s request that the court enter a
“partial judgment” in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant because doing so
would violate the one final judgment rule. 
(Pet., p. 4:9-10, 4:19-20; Cuevas v. Truline Corp. (2004) 118
Cal.App.4th 56, 60 [“‘[A]s a general rule there can be only one final judgment
in a single action’”].)  The court denies
Plaintiff’s related requests that the court, in entering the proposed partial
judgment, include         (1) an award of
attorney’s fees and costs to prepare the pending petition, and (2) additional prejudgment
interest.  (Pet., p. 8:5-6 [requesting
that the court “include in its Partial Judgment additional attorney’s fees”],
8:14-15 [requesting that the court include additional prejudgment interest].) 
 
ORDER
            The court (1) grants plaintiff
Leonor Hernandez Mata’s petition to confirm arbitration award, and (2) denies
plaintiff Leonor Hernandez Mata’s request that the court enter partial
judgment. 
            The court confirms the Final Award,
issued on October 20, 2023 by arbitrator Hon. Rita Miller (Ret.), including the
following Interim Awards incorporated therein: (1) Fourth Interim Award re
Respondent’s Motion to Tax Costs, issued on October 3, 2023 by arbitrator Hon.
Rita Miller (Ret.); (2) Third Interim Award Concerning Claimant’s Motion for
Attorneys’ Fees, issued on September 25, 2023 by arbitrator Hon. Rita Miller
(Ret.); (3) Second Interim Award, issued on July 25, 2025 by arbitrator Hon.
Rita Miller (Ret.); and (4) Interim Award, issued on May 25, 2023 by arbitrator
Hon. Rita Miller (Ret.). 
            The court orders plaintiff Leonor
Hernandez Mata to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  January 22, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court