  Case Number:  21PSCV00519    Hearing Date:   August 19, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Daniel
Caldera Salcido v. CG Integrity Investments, et al. 
Motion to Set
Aside Default and Re-Instate [sic] Answer to First Amended
Complaint 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS Defendant CG Integrity Investments Inc.’s motion
to set aside default and re-instate [sic] answer to First Amended
Complaint. The default of Defendant CG Integrity Investments Inc. is hereby
VACATED, and the answer filed on August 23, 2023, is hereby REINSTATED as to
Defendant CG Integrity Investments Inc. 
            Defendant CG Integrity Investments
Inc. is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days
of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a breach of contract case. On June 23, 2021, plaintiff Daniel
Caldera Salcido (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants CG Integrity
Investments, Inc. (CG), Claudio Vernail Gonzalez, and Cynthia Ruth Gonzalez
(collectively, Defendants). On June 30, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative
First Amended Complaint against the same Defendants, alleging causes of action
for breach of contract, intentional misrepresentation, negligent
misrepresentation, concealment, and false promise. 
On July 8, 2023, CG moved to set aside the default and re-instate
[sic] answer to First Amended Complaint. On August 6, 2024, Plaintiff
opposed the motion. On August 12, 2024, CG replied. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
            Under Code of Civil Procedure, section 473, subdivision
(b), “the court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or
her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) Relief under this
section is mandatory when based on an attorney affidavit of fault; otherwise,
it is discretionary. (Id.) An application for relief must be made no
more than six months after entry of the order from which relief is sought and
must be accompanied by an affidavit of fault attesting to the moving party’s
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. (Id.; English v. IKON
Business Solutions (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.) 
DISCUSSION 
Summary of Arguments 
CG indicates that it revived its corporate standing
with the California Secretary of State on June 12, 2024. CG contends that the
default entered against it on February 1, 2024, due to its prior suspended
status with the Secretary of State, is no longer valid. CG requests that the
Court set aside that default and reinstate its answer to the First Amended
Complaint previously filed in this action. CG contends the motion was timely
filed within six months of entry of the default. CG further contends policy
favors a trial on the merits, and the Court has wide discretion in granting
relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 473, which is to be liberally
construed in favor of a trial on the merits. CG also contends policy favors relief
from default unless inexcusable neglect is clear. 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends CG failed to
demonstrate mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Plaintiff
contends CG has been suspended by the California Secretary of State since July
1, 2019, and that CG was fully aware of its suspended status during that time
period, but deliberately disregarded its suspended status by answering the
original complaint and then the First Amended Complaint. Plaintiff contends CG
knowingly did not pay its annual fees which resulted in its suspended status,
and that the Court gave CG multiple chances to revive its corporate status
before striking CG’s answer. Plaintiff further contends CG could have resolved
its suspended status issue earlier but only acted once the default was entered
against it. Plaintiff also argues CG has not shown that it has a meritorious
defense. 
Analysis 
“’Because the law strongly favors trial and
disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved
in favor of the party seeking relief from default [citations].’ [Citation.]” (Grappo
v. McMills (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 996, 1005-1006.) 
Here, the Court does not find there to be
particularly strong evidence of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable
neglect. At most, CG only indicates vaguely that it was experiencing financial
hardship, which led to CG’s failure to pay its annual fees to the State of
California and subsequent suspension. (Gonzalez Decl., ¶ 8.) However, it is
unclear whether either party had knowledge that CG’s suspended status precluded
it from defending against this action. The parties actively litigated this case
for more than 2 years before Plaintiff raised the issue of CG’s suspended
status. (See Minute Order 11/9/2023.) Nevertheless, “[Code of Civil Procedure
section 473] is often applied liberally where the party in default moves
promptly to seek relief, and the party opposing the motion will not suffer
prejudice if relief is granted. [Citations.] In such situations ‘very slight
evidence will be required to justify a court in setting aside the default.’
[Citations.]” (Grappo, supra, 11 Cal.App.5th at p. 1005.) The Court
finds that CG reinstated it’s corporate status on June 12, 2024 and promptly
moved to set aside the default on July 8, 2024. The Court finds CG has
presented sufficient evidence to justify setting aside the default.
Additionally, CG timely sought relief when filing this motion, and Plaintiff’s
opposition provides no evidence of prejudice if the relief is granted. 
Moreover, Plaintiff’s argument that CG needed to show
it has a meritorious defense is incorrect and based on outdated authority,
namely Lynch v. Spilman (1967) 67 Cal.2d 251 (Lynch). Lynch
predates the 1981 amendment to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision
(b), which added the language that, “[n]o affidavit or declaration of merits
shall be required of the moving party.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b); Uriarte v. United States Pipe & Foundry Co. (1996)
51 Cal.App.4th 780, 789.) Subsequent case law makes clear that the moving party
no longer needs to present a meritorious defense to set aside a default. 
We conclude from both the foregoing and pertinent
post–1981 authority under section 473 that the ‘two-step’ standard of review
postulated by Lynch,
Beard and Sistim no longer obtains. Among the more recent cases
which articulate only an abuse-of-discretion standard of review for grants of
section 473 motions is Shamblin v. Brattain (1988) 44 Cal.3d 474, 478–479,
243 Cal.Rptr. 902, 749 P.2d 339, where our Supreme Court held: “It is the
policy of the law to favor, whenever possible, a hearing on the merits. Appellate
courts are much more disposed to affirm an order when the result is to compel a
trial on the merits than when the default judgment is allowed to stand.
[Citation.] Therefore, when a party in default moves promptly to seek relief, very slight evidence is
required to justify a trial court's order setting aside a default. [Citation.]
In the present case, [the defendant] promptly moved to have the default
judgment set aside once he learned of it. The trial court's order granting
relief was within its sound discretion and, in the absence of a clear showing of abuse of discretion, should
not be disturbed. [Citations.] [¶] The appropriate test for abuse
of discretion is whether the trial court exceeded the bounds of reason.
When two or more inferences can reasonably be deduced from the facts, the
reviewing court has no authority to substitute its decision for that of the
trial court. [Citations.]”

(Uriarte v. United States
Pipe & Foundry Co., supra, 51 Cal.App.4th at pp. 789-790,
italics in original; see also Shapiro v. Clark (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th
1128, 1144 [“[R]espondents [sic] legal premise—that appellant must
affirmatively demonstrate a ‘meritorious defense’—is incorrect. [Citations.]”) 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS CG’s motion to
set aside default and reinstate answer to the First Amended Complaint. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Defendant CG Integrity Investments Inc.’s motion
to set aside default and re-instate answer to First Amended Complaint. The
default of Defendant CG Integrity Investments Inc. is hereby SET ASIDE and VACATED,
and the answer filed on August 23, 2023, is hereby REINSTATED as to Defendant
CG Integrity Investments Inc. 
            Defendant CG Integrity Investments
Inc. is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days
of this order.