 Case Number:  21STCV17128    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
Defendants’
motion to continue trial is GRANTED.
 
Legal
Standard
California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (c) states that although disfavored, the trial
date may be continued for “good cause,” which includes (without limitation):
(1) unavailability of trial counsel or witnesses due to “death, illness, or
other excusable circumstances”; (2) the addition of a new party depriving the
new party (or other parties) from conducting discovery and preparing for trial;
(3) “excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts”; or (4) “[a] significant,
unanticipated change in the status of the case” preventing it from being ready
for trial. (Id., Rule 3.1332(c).) 
Other relevant
considerations may include: “(1) The proximity of the trial date; [¶] (2)
Whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of
trial due to any party; [¶] (3) The length of the continuance requested; [¶]
(4) The availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise
to the motion or application for a continuance; [¶] (5) The prejudice that
parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; [¶] (6) If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; [¶]
(7) The court's calendar and the
impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; [¶] (8) Whether trial
counsel is engaged in another trial; [¶] (9) Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; [¶] (10) Whether the interests of justice are best
served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions
on the continuance; and [¶] (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the
fair determination of the motion or application.” (Id., Rule 3.1332(d).) 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2024.050 allows a court to grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings. In doing so, a court shall consider matters relevant to the leave
requested, including, but not limited to: (1) the necessity of the discovery,
(2) the diligence in seeking the discovery or discovery motion, (3) the
likelihood of interference with the trial calendar or prejudice to a party, and
(4) the length of time that has elapsed between previous trial dates. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2024.050.)
Discussion
 
Defendants
move to continue trial from November 3, 2023, to July 22, 2024, and request
that all discovery and motion cut-off dates be based upon the new trial date.
Defendants argue good cause exists because Plaintiff and Defendants still need
additional time to conduct and complete written discovery.
 
The Court
finds there is good cause to continue trial as the parties have not completed
discovery before the trial date. Defendants have only received responses from
two of Plaintiff’s six medical providers subpoenaed. Moreover, the parties are
working to schedule mediation and the mediator is not available before February
2024. (Zicarelli Decl. Ex. A.) Further, Plaintiff has stipulated and agreed to
the trial continuance, and so no party would be unfairly prejudiced by a trial
continuance. (Id.) 
 
Accordingly,
the motion is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly,
the motion to continue trial is GRANTED. 
 
Trial is
continued to late July 2024. Final Status Conference and all deadlines are
reset based on the new trial date.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.  
 
 