  Case Number:  21STCV02368    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Set Aside the Order of Dismissal entered
on January 24, 2023, is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiffs’ counsel is ordered to pay $250 to the State Bar
Client Security Fund.
 
Legal
Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), provides for mandatory and discretionary relief from dismissal.¿
“The court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her
legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) Where such an
application for discretionary relief is made, the motion shall be accompanied
by a copy of the¿answer or pleading proposed to be filed, or the application
will not be granted.¿¿(Ibid.)¿ The court must grant relief from
dismissal¿where the application is accompanied by an attorney affidavit
attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.¿¿(Ibid.)¿
In either case, the application must be made within a reasonable time, and in
no case exceeding six months after the judgment.¿¿(Ibid.)¿  
 
Subdivision (b) also directs
that whenever a court grants relief based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault,
the court “shall … direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal
fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(b).) And, in addition, under subdivision (c), the court may: (1) impose a
penalty of no greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000) upon an offending
attorney or party; (2) direct that an offending attorney pay an amount no
greater than one thousand dollars ($1,000) to the State Bar Client Security
Fund; or (3) grant other relief as is appropriate.  (Id.,
subd. (c)(1).)
 
Discussion
 
The motion is timely filed under Code
of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b). ¿¿The action was dismissed on
January 24, 2023.¿ This Motion to Set Aside the Dismissal was filed on July 20,
2023, within six months after dismissal was entered, and within a reasonable
time.  
 
Plaintiffs move for relief¿on the ground that¿dismissal was entered
due to the inadvertence, or neglect of counsel.¿Plaintiffs’ counsel provides a
declaration signed under penalty of perjury stating that due to Plaintiffs’
counsel’s inadvertent calendaring error, the hearing was never calendared, and
as a result, Plaintiffs’ counsel failed to make an appearance at the hearing.
(Lederer ¶3.)  
 
Plaintiffs’ counsel has sufficiently established
mistake, inadvertence or neglect to warrant setting aside the dismissal. Accordingly,
the motion is GRANTED.
As
Defendant has not appeared or been served, there does not appear to be any
basis to award fees or costs to Defendant under section 473, subdivision (b).
Under section 473, subdivision
(c), the Court has considered all of the evidence in the record, and the
explanation offered by Plaintiff’s counsel, and exercises its discretion to
require Plaintiff’s attorney to pay the amount of $250 to the State Bar Client
Security Fund.
 
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’
Motion to Set Aside the Order
of Dismissal entered on January 24, 2023.
 
The Court, on its own motion, sets an OSC
regarding service of process on Defendant in approximately 90 days.
The Court, on its own motion, sets a Trial
Setting Conference in approximately 120 days.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff’s attorney David
Lederer to pay $250 to the State Bar Client Security Fund within 30 days, and
to submit proof of payment to the Court within 45 days.  (Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (c)(2), the setting aside of
the Court’s order of dismissal is not conditioned upon the making of this
payment, but the order to pay may be subject to enforcement through other
means.) 
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.  
 
 