 Case Number:  21STCV43195    Hearing Date:   September 29, 2023    Dept:  29 TENTATIVE 
 
Defendant’s
motion to continue trial is GRANTED. 
 
Legal
Standard
California Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332, subdivision (c) states that although disfavored, the trial
date may be continued for “good cause,” which includes (without limitation):
(1) unavailability of trial counsel or witnesses due to “death, illness, or other
excusable circumstances”; (2) the addition of a new party depriving the new
party (or other parties) from conducting discovery and preparing for trial; (3)
“excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts”; or (4) “[a] significant, unanticipated
change in the status of the case” preventing it from being ready for trial.
(Id., Rule 3.1332(c).) 
Other relevant
considerations may include: “(1) The proximity of the trial date; [¶] (2)
Whether there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of
trial due to any party; [¶] (3) The length of the continuance requested; [¶]
(4) The availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise
to the motion or application for a continuance; [¶] (5) The prejudice that
parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; [¶] (6) If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; [¶]
(7) The court's calendar and the
impact of granting a continuance on other pending trials; [¶] (8) Whether trial
counsel is engaged in another trial; [¶] (9) Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance; [¶] (10) Whether the interests of justice are best
served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions
on the continuance; and [¶] (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the
fair determination of the motion or application.” (Id., Rule 3.1332(d).) 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 2024.050 allows a court to grant leave to complete discovery
proceedings. In doing so, a court shall consider matters relevant to the leave
requested, including, but not limited to: (1) the necessity of the discovery,
(2) the diligence in seeking the discovery or discovery motion, (3) the
likelihood of interference with the trial calendar or prejudice to a party, and
(4) the length of time that has elapsed between previous trial dates. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2024.050.)
Discussion
 
Defendant moves to continue trial from November 20, 2023, to August 2024,
and requests that all
discovery and motion cut-off dates be based upon the new trial date. Defendant
argues good cause exists because it only recently filed a motion to compel
Plaintiff’s discovery responses set to be heard on October 17, 2023, and a motion
for summary judgment that is set to be heard on June 4, 2024. Defendant argues
a trial continuance is necessary to provide Defendant with additional time to
review Plaintiff’s discovery responses or seek additional discovery and to have
the motion for summary judgment heard before trial. 
 
The Court
finds there is good cause to continue trial as Defendant’s motion to compel
responses is currently scheduled to be heard on October 17, 2023, and the
discovery cutoff deadline will pass if Defendant needs to seek additional
discovery. Further, the motion for summary judgment is currently scheduled to
be heard after the date of trial. No opposition has been filed and so it appears
that no party would be unfairly prejudiced by a trial continuance. 
 
Accordingly,
the motion is granted. 
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly,
the motion to continue trial is GRANTED. 
 
Trial is
continued to late August 2024. The Final Status Conference and all deadlines
are reset based on the new trial date.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.  
 
 