 Case Number:  22STCV40550    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



COLEEN L.
  JOHNSON, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SHELDON PARK CONDOMINIUM OWNERS
  ASSOCIATION, et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV40550
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY
  INJUNCTION
 
Date: October 23, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Sheldon Park Condominium Owners Association (“Defendant Sheldon”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None.

 
            The Court has considered the moving papers.
Neither opposition nor reply papers were filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This is an action arising from alleged damage
to a condominium unit owned by Plaintiff Coleen L. Johnson (“Plaintiff
Johnson”) that suffered water damage due to a burst pipe in a connected condominium
unit (the “Unit”) owned by Defendant Maria B. Rivera Henriquez (“Henriquez”). Plaintiff
Johnson filed the operative Complaint against Defendant Sheldon and Defendant
Henriquez alleging causes of action for: (1) breach of covenants, conditions,
and restrictions (CC&Rs); (2) negligence; and (3) nuisance. 
 
            Defendant Sheldon filed a motion for
preliminary injunction to compel access to the Unit (the “Motion”).  Plaintiff Johnson filed a Declaration in
support of the issuance of the mandatory preliminary injunction.  Defendant Henriquez filed no opposition to
the Motion.
 
DISCUSSION
“In
deciding whether to issue a preliminary injunction, a court must weigh two
‘interrelated’ factors: (1) the likelihood that the moving party will
ultimately prevail on the merits and (2) the relative interim harm to the
parties from issuance or nonissuance of the injunction.  . . . . 
The trial court's determination must be guided by a ‘mix’ of the
potential-merit and interim-harm factors; the greater the plaintiff’s showing on
one, the less must be shown on the other to support an injunction.” (Butt v. State of California (1992) 4
Cal.4th 668, 677-78 (citations omitted).) 

 
            Generally, “restrictive covenants
are construed strictly against the person seeking to enforce them, and any
doubt will be resolved in favor of the free use of land. But it is also true
that the ‘intent of the parties and the object of the deed or restriction
should govern, giving the instrument a just and fair interpretation’.” (Chee
v. Amanda Goldt Property Management (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1360, 1377.)
 
Under
the CC&Rs, Sections 3 and 4 of Article 6, the owner of one condominium unit
must make repairs to their unit when the lack of repairs is causing damage to
other units, and further provides Defendant Sheldon the authority to obtain
access to the unit and make repairs at the unit owner’s expense. (Johnson’s
Complaint, Exh. A.)
 
            The property located at 855 Victor Ave., Unit 202, Inglewood, CA 90302
is allegedly owned by Plaintiff Johnson. (Johnson Decl., ¶ 2.) The property
located at 855 Victor Ave., Unit 302, Inglewood, CA 90302 is allegedly owned by
Defendant Henriquez. (Id.) Defendant Sheldon alleges that drywall has already been ripped out in
the Unit and it is clear there are leaks coming from the Unit that require
necessary repairs. (White Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. A.) Defendant Sheldon asserts that
Defendant Henriquez has refused to give access to the Unit. (Id.)
            
            Here, there is a
restrictive covenant that permits Defendant Sheldon to have access to Defendant
Henriquez’s Unit if it has caused damage to other units and Defendant Henriquez
does not resolve the issue. The restrictive covenant is recorded, which
indicates that both parties intended to be bound by the terms of the CC&Rs.
There is, therefore, a high probability that Defendant Johnson will prevail
against Defendant Henriquez, who, as the evidence demonstrates is subject to
the CC&Rs, failed to have repairs done on her own, owns the Unit that has
caused damage to another unit, and refuses to grant Defendant Sheldon access to
conduct the necessary repairs. Furthermore, it appears that from the
declarations and exhibits provided, if the injunction is not issued, Plaintiff
Johnson will continue to suffer damage to her own unit. Plaintiff Johnson is in
support of this Motion. (Johnson Decl., ¶) Additionally, Defendant Henriquez
has not filed an opposition to rebut the arguments advanced by Defendant
Sheldon, although provided notice of the Motion on September 28, 2023 via
electronic mail. 
 
            Therefore, the Court GRANTS the
motion to compel access to condominium unit 302 which is the subject of
litigation before the Court and issues a Mandatory Preliminary Injunction as requested
in the Motion.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 23rd day of October 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



