 Case Number:  22STCV31683    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



RICHARD GALVAN, et
  al., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
THOMAS EDWARD WALJESKI, et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV18964
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE
  CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Date: October 23, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Thomas Edward Waljeski (“Defendant Waljeski”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Richard Galvan (“Mr. Galvan”) and Paige Galvan (“Ms. Galvan”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving
and opposition papers. No reply papers have been filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
            This is an action arising from a lease
and option to purchase agreement between Mr. Galvan, Ms. Galvan, and Defendant
Waljeski. Mr. Galvan and Ms. Galvan filed the operative Complaint against
Defendant Waljeski alleging causes of action for: (1) violation of California
Civil Code § 1942.4; (2) tortious breach of the warranty of habitability; (3)
private nuisance; (4) Business and Professional Code § 17200, et seq; (5)
negligence; (6) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment; (7) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; (8) fraud and deceit; (9) negligence per se;
and (10) violation of retaliatory eviction and anti-harassment ordinance. 
 
             Defendant Waljeski filed a motion for leave to
file a cross-complaint. Mr. Galvan and Ms. Galvan filed an opposition.
Defendant Waljeski did not file a reply. 
 
DISCUSSION
            Parties generally must file a
cross-complaint against the party who filed the complaint before or at the same
time as the answer to the complaint. California Code of Civil Procedure,
Section 428.50(a). Parties seeking to file untimely compulsory cross-complaints,
however, may file with the Court for leave to do so, even though the failure to
timely file resulted from oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other
cause. California Code of Civil Procedure, Section 426.50. In such a
case, after notice to the adverse party, the Court must grant leave to file the
cross-complaint if the party acted in good faith. Courts liberally construe
section 426.50 to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.  (Ibid.)

 
The
purpose of the compulsory cross-complaint statute is to prevent piecemeal
litigation.  (Align Technology, Inc. v. Tran (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 949,
959.)  Compulsory cross-complaints
consist of those causes of action existing at the time of service of the answer
that the defendant must bring against the plaintiff, or else forfeit the right
to bring them in any other action. California Code of Civil Procedure,
Section 426.30(a). Specifically, compulsory cross-complaints consist of the
causes of action that “arise out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series
of transactions or occurrences as the cause of action which the plaintiff
alleges in his complaint.” California Code of Civil Procedure, Section 426.10(c).
To avoid piecemeal litigation, courts liberally construe the term
“transaction”—it is “ ‘not confined to a single, isolated act or occurrence . .
. but may embrace a series of acts or occurrences logically interrelated.’ ” (Align Technology, supra, 179 Cal.App.4th
at p. 960.)
 
Thus,
a motion to file a compulsory cross-complaint at any time during the course of
the action must be granted where forfeiture would otherwise result, unless the
moving party engaged in bad faith conduct. 
(Silver Organizations Ltd. v.
Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.) 
The determination that the moving party acted in bad faith must be
supported by substantial evidence. (Ibid.;
Foot’s Transfer & Storage Co. v.
Superior Court (1980) 114 Cal.App.3d 897, 902 [“We conclude that this
principle of liberality requires that a strong showing of bad faith be made in
order to support a denial of the right to file a cross-complaint under this
section”].)
 
            Here, Defendant Waljeski asserts that he did not act in bad faith
when he did not file a cross-complaint with his Answer on August 22, 2022.
Defendant Waljeski asserts that
at the time his Answer was filed he did not believe that the costs of
rehabilitating the property were worth pursuing because he had made some
temporary repairs and some not so temporary repairs after Mr. Galvan and Ms.
Galvan vacated the premises. (Sanders Decl., ¶ 3; Galvans’ Complaint at p. 3.)
Defendant Waljeski further
asserts that his age and serious health problems resulted in his being unable
to properly attend to  his business
affairs and timely provide his counsel with sufficient information to prepare a
cross-complaint at the time the Answer was filed. (Galvans’ Complaint at p. 4.)
Defendant Waljeski also asserts
that his counsel suffered two heart attacks a couple of months apart, which
left him bed-ridden, which compounded matters. (Sanders Decl., ¶ 4; Galvans’
Complaint at p. 4.) Defendant Waljeski contends that his health has improved enough to assist his counsel in
litigating this case. Defendant Waljeski also asserts that the damages turned out to be more extensive and that
the property needs to be materially rehabilitated to put it back in the same
condition that was in at the time Mr. Galvan and Ms. Galvan rented it. (Id. at ¶ 5; Galvans’ Complaint at p. 3.)
 
            In their opposition,
Mr. Galvan and Ms. Galvan argue that the instant motion has been made in bad
faith to attempt to delay the trial date. Mr. Galvan and Ms. Galvan assert that
Defendant Waljeski was aware of damage to the premises at the
time the original Answer was filed but intentionally chose not to file a
cross-complaint. (Galvans’ Opp. at p. 7.) Furthermore, Mr. Galvan and Ms.
Galvan assert that Defendant Waljeski provides no evidence to explain why defense counsel would have been
unable to file the present motion before now and that conclusory statements
that this motion was not made in bad faith are not evidence. (Id.) Moreover, Mr. Galvan and Ms. Galvan contend that Defendant Waljeski’s attempt to get  an extension to Answer, the lack of any
evidence of discovery of any new evidence or unknown facts, and the
relationship of the pending trial date to the date of this instant motion
constitute bad faith. (Id.) Additionally, Mr. Galvan and Ms. Galvan
assert that granting the present motion would necessitate the preparation of
additional sets of discovery, leave to file an amended complaint to include breach
of contract, taking an additional deposition, and response to the proposed
cross-complaint. (Partiiyeli Decl., ¶ 5.)
 
            Mr. Galvan and Ms.
Galvan have not submitted substantial evidence to support that Defendant Waljeski acted in bad faith by not filing a
cross-complaint with his original Answer. Although Defendant Waljeski asserts that he was aware of some damages allegedly
caused by Mr. Galvan and Ms. Galvan, Defendant Waljeski also asserts that the extent of the damage
known at the time of filing his Answer did not necessitate material
rehabilitation of the subject property. Further, Defendant Waljeski’s counsel of record was allegedly
bed-ridden a month after filing the Answer and again in early 2023. Therefore, the
Court finds that Defendant Waljeski has brought forth this motion in good faith.  
 
            The Court GRANTS the motion for
leave to file cross-complaint. Waljeski is ordered to file the Cross-Complaint
within ten days of the date of this Order.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 23rd day of October 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



