 Case Number:  23STCV08297    Hearing Date:   January 8, 2025    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



WARING PLAZA PROPERTIES, L.P. 
  
        
  vs.
 
MANATT, PHELPS & PHILLIPS, LLP, et
  al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCV08297  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 8, 2025




 
 
Waring’s
motion for leave to amend to file an SAC is GRANTED.
 
On 4/14/2023,
Plaintiff Waring Plaza Properties, L.P. (Waring) filed suit against Manatt,
Phelps & Phillips, LLP and Benjamin G. Shatz. On 5/6/2024, Plainiff filed a
first amended complaint (FAC) alleging: (1) professional negligence; (2) breach
of implied contract; and (3) common counts. 
 
            On
7/5/2023, Cross-Complainant Manatt, Phelps & Phillips, LLP filed a
cross-complaint (XC) against Waring Plaza Properties, L.P., alleging: (1)
breach of written contract; (2) open book account; and (3) quantum meruit; and
(4) breach of implied-in-fact contract. 
 
            Now,
Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Waring Plaza Properties L.P. (Waring) seeks leave
to file a second amended complaint (SAC). 
 
Discussion 
 
            Waring
seeks leave to amend to add a new cause of action for violation of Business and
Professions Code section 17200 et seq. and remove two causes of action from the
first amended complaint (FAC) that are moot because the court sustained
defendants Manatt, Phelps & Phillips, LLP (Manatt) and Benjamin G. Shatz’s
demurrer to those two causes of action. The proposed SAC does not contain any
new facts. The only addition is a new legal theory that seeks restitution of
fees Waring paid Defendants in the same amount as the damages alleged under the
FAC.
 
The
policy favoring leave to amend is so strong that it is an abuse of discretion
to deny an amendment unless the adverse party can show meaningful prejudice.
(Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.)
 
Here, trial
is more than nine months away. No depositions have been taken. Only basic
written discovery has been exchanged, and Waring has no additional information
to provide Defendants regarding the new claim. As such, Defendants have not
identified any meaningful prejudice it would suffer if leave to amend were
granted. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Waring’s motion for leave to amend to file an SAC is granted. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2025
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 