 Case Number:  24STCV11209    Hearing Date:   January 8, 2025    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENATIVE RULING
 



CALEX ENGINEERING CO. 
  
        
  vs.
 
WENDELL BENIGA, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  24STCV11209
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 8, 2025



 
Plaintiff’s
motion to seal is GRANTED.
 
On 5/30/2024,
Plaintiff Calex Engineering Co. filed suit against Wendell Beniga and Ironmark
Earthworks, Inc. alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) breach of fiduciary duty; (3)
aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty; (5) inducing breach of contract;
(6) misappropriation of trade secrets; (7) violation of Business and
Professions Code section 17200; (8) intentional interference with economic
relations; (9) negligent interference with economic relations; and (10)
violations of Comprehensive Computer Data access and Fraud Act. 
 
            On
10/17/2024, Plaintiff moved for an order sealing various documents submitted in
support of Plaintiff’s Supplemental Briefing re: Preliminary Injunction.
 
            The
motion is unopposed. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
seeks an order sealing various documents submitted in support of Plaintiff’s
Supplemental Briefing re: Preliminary Injunction. More specifically, Plaintiff
seeks to seal certain exhibits submitted including Calex’s bid and budget
proposals with various Calex customers. 
 
These
exhibits contain private and proprietary business and financial information
concerning Calex’s business practices, the public disclosure of which would
harm its commercial interests.
 
California
Rules of Court 2.550(d) and 2.551(b) permit the Court to issue a sealing order
if it finds that: (1) “[t]here exhibits an overriding interest that overcomes
the right of public access to the record”; (2) “[t]he overriding interest
supports sealing the record”; (3) “[a] substantial probability exists that the
overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed”; (4) “[t]he
proposed sealing is narrowly tailored”; and (5) “[n]o less restrictive means
exhibit to achieve the overriding interest.” 
 
After review,
the Court finds that each of the factors set forth in Rule 2.550(d) supports
sealing. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to seal is granted.
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2025
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
. 