 Case Number:  24STCV17400    Hearing Date:   January 8, 2025    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JAMES MICHAEL GUBBINS JR. 
  
        
  vs.
 
GENERAL MOTORS, LLC 
  


 Case
  No.:  24STCV17400     
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 8, 2025




 
 
Defendant’s
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Defendant’s
motion to strike is DENIED. 
 
            On
7/12/2024, Plaintiff James Michael Gubbins Jr. (Plaintiff) filed suit against
General Motors, LLC (Defendant), alleging violation of the Song-Beverly Act. 
 
             Now, Defendant demurs to the fifth cause of
action for fraudulent concealment. Defendant also moves to strike portions of
Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff has not pled fraudulent concealment with the requisite
specificity. 
 
            After
review, the Court disagrees. 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant knew about defects with the 8-speed
transmission in the Chevrolet Colorado. More specifically, Plaintiff alleges
that: 
 
Defendant GM
knew that the 8-speed transmission had one or more defects that can result in
various problems, including, but not limited to hard or harsh shifts, jerking,
lurching, hesitation on acceleration, surging and/or inability to control the
vehicle's speed, acceleration, or deceleration ("Transmission
Defect"). These conditions present a safety hazard and are unreasonably
dangerous to consumers because they can suddenly and unexpectedly cause the
driver to be unable to control the speed and acceleration/deceleration of the
vehicle. Such unexpected inability to control the vehicle's speed and
acceleration/deceleration thereby, exposes Plaintiff and passengers (along with
other drivers who share the road or garage with Plaintiff) to a serious risk of
accident and injury
 
Plaintiff is
informed, believes and thereon alleges that Defendant GM acquired its knowledge
of the Transmission Defect prior to Plaintiff acquiring the Vehicle, through
sources not available to consumers such as Plaintiff, including but not limited
to pre-production and post-production testing data; early consumer complaints
about the Transmission Defect made directly to Defendant GM and its network of
dealers; aggregate warranty data compiled from Defendant GM's network of
dealers; testing conducted by Defendant GM in response to these complaints; as
well as warranty repair and part replacements data received by Defendant GM
from Defendant GM's network of dealers, amongst other sources of internal
information.
                        ..
 
However,
prior to Plaintiff's purchase of the Subject Vehicle, Defendant GM was
internally referring the 8-speed transmission as a "neck snapper."
Defendant GM engineers even considered stopping production in 2015 (but did
not) and in 2016, president Johan de Nysschen acknowledged customer frustration
surrounding the Transmission Defect internally and meeting with its authorized
repair facility. Nonetheless, Defendant GM continued to conceal the
Transmission Defect from consumers, including in its marketing materials, and
advised any complaining customers that poor shifts were "normal."
 
In fact,
Defendant GM's Mark Gordon lamented in February 2019 that "shift quality
issues are an ongoing concern with the 8-Speed transmission. Unfortunately,
these issues have been through an Op-ex and a service solution is not going to
be developed due to cost.
 
            (Complaint
¶¶ 61-66.) 
 
            As
such, Plaintiff alleges specific facts which could show Defendant knew about
the 8-speed transmission defects, including that it was referred to internally
as the “neck snapper” while publicly advertising the transmissions as having
“world-class performance.” Moreover, Plaintiff alleges that he “interacted with
sales representatives, considered Defendant GM's advertisement, and/or other
marketing materials concerning GM Vehicles prior to purchasing Subject Vehicle”
and thus has alleged facts which could show interactions before or during his
purchase of the Vehicle. (Complaint ¶ 62.) 
 
While
Defendant contends that Plaintiff has not sufficiently alleged facts of the
identities of the individuals who allegedly concealed this information, or
which could establish Defendant’s knowledge of defects at the time of purchase,
access to this specific information is clearly contemplated by the discovery
process. Indeed, it is nearly impossible to imagine how Plaintiff could have
access to those facts without the benefit of discovery. Rather, it is
sufficient that Plaintiff has alleged facts which, accepted as true, could
state a claim for concealment. 
 
            Moreover,
the Court finds sufficient facts have been alleged to show a duty to disclose.
A duty to disclose can arise from three circumstances: (1) the defendant had
exclusive knowledge of the material fact; (2) the defendant actively concealed
the material fact; or (3) the defendant made partial representations while also
suppressing the material fact. (BiglerEngler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7
Cal.App.5th 276, 311; LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326,
336.) However, “[t]hese three circumstances, however, ‘presuppose[ ] the
existence of [a] relationship between the plaintiff and defendant in which a
duty to disclose can arise.’” (Bigler-Engler, supra, 7 Cal.
App.5th at 311.0 
 
“Such a
transaction must necessarily arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff
and defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant and the public at large.”
(Bigler-Engler, supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at 311, emphases added.)
Here, Defendant manufactured the Vehicle purchased by Plaintiff, provided
warranties to Plaintiff on behalf of that Vehicle, and attempted repair on
Plaintiff’s vehicle pursuant those warranties. As such, the Court finds direct
dealings between Plaintiff and Defendant sufficient to give rise to a duty to
disclose. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action is overruled. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
            Defendant
moves to strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages. As set forth above,
the Court overruled Defendant’s demurer to the Plaintiff’s fraudulent
concealment cause of action. As such, Plaintiff has necessarily alleged facts
which could show malice, oppression, or fraud. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to strike is denied. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2025
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 