 Case Number:  22STCV06771    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  T Motions to Compel DiscoveryYves Benaroch v. Sharli Hayun, et al.Moving Party: Defendants Sharli Hayun; Kfir HayunResponding Party: N/ATentative Ruling: GRANTBACKGROUNDThis is a car collision case arising from a February 25, 2020 incident. (Declaration of Anthony Bell, ¶ 3; Index of Exhibits, Ex. A.) On December 29, 2023, Defendants filed their answer to Plaintiff Yves Benaroch’s complaint. (Declaration of Anthony Bell, ¶ 8; Index of Exhibits, Ex. B.) On June 10, 2024, Defendants served the Requests for Admission, Form Interrogatories (Set One), and Requests for Production on Plaintiff. (Declaration of Anthony Bell, ¶ 5; Index of Exhibits, Ex. C.) Defendants’ Requests for Admission seek that the following facts are true: (1) Plaintiff operated a car involved in the accident and “the operator cannot establish his or her financial responsibility as required by the financial responsibility laws of this state.” (2) The insurance policy claimed by Plaintiff was not issued to Cedric Benaroch. (3) The insurance policy claimed by Plaintiff does not cover the car Plaintiff was driving when the accident occurred. (Index of Exhibits, Ex. C.)Plaintiff failed to provide responses to Defendants’ discovery. (Declaration of Anthony Bell, ¶6.) On August 27, 2024, counsel for Defendants requested Plaintiff provide responses to the propounded discovery by September 3, 2024. (Declaration of Anthony Bell, ¶7; Index of Exhibits, Ex. D.) Defendants did not receive any response to this email, nor to their propounded discovery. MOVING PARTY POSITIONDefendants argue they are entitled to the information sought in their Requests for Production and Form Interrogatories (Set One), and Plaintiff’s failure to provide responses justifies granting their motions to compel responses without objection. (Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production, p. 4; Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, p. 4.) Defendants argue Plaintiff’s failure to provide responses to the Requests for Admission constitutes a response deeming the requests for admission as admitted. (Motion to Deem Responses Admitted to Requests for Admission, p. 4.)Additionally, Defendants request $1,110.00 in sanctions for the costs incurred as to each motion. On each motion, Defendants assert 5 hours worked at a $210.00 hourly rate — including time spent drafting each motion in addition to anticipated time required to review and reply to any opposition and to prepare for and attend each hearing — in addition to a $60.00 filing fee. (Declaration of Anthony Bell, ¶ 8).OPPOSITIONNo opposition has been filed to any of the instant motions.ANALYSISI. Motions to Compel DiscoveryCode of Civil Procedure § 2031.010 allows a party to propound a written request for document production, to be answered under oath. This discovery may be served by a defendant at any time, without leave of court. (C.C.P. § 2031.020(a).) Written responses to the document production request must also include a statement asserting that the party will comply, that the party cannot comply, or alternatively objecting to the request. (C.C.P. § 2031.210(a).) Responsive documents shall be produced on the date specified in the demand, or other date agreed by the parties. (C.C.P. § 2031.280(d).) If a party fails to respond to a document production request, the requesting party may move for an order compelling a response. (C.C.P. § 2031.310(b).) Written responses to form interrogatories must be made under oath. (C.C.P. §§ 2030.210(a), 2030.250(a).) The response must be served within thirty days after the interrogatories are served on the responding party. (C.C.P. § 2030.260(a).) If the responding party fails to serve a timely response, that party waives any objection to the interrogatories. (C.C.P. § 2030.290(a).) If a party fails to respond to form interrogatories, the party serving the discovery may move for an order compelling a response. (C.C.P. §2030.300(a).) The court shall also impose monetary sanctions against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully opposes a motion to compel a response, unless it finds the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.“If a party to whom requests for admission have been directed fails to serve a timely response ... [t]he requesting party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).” (C.C.P. § 2033.280(b).) A nonresponding party has responded to the requests by admitting the truth of all matters contained therein. (Wilcox v. Birtwhistle (1999) 21 Cal. 4th 973, 979.)The Court finds it is appropriate to grant all of Defendants’ motions to compel in this case. Plaintiff here has failed to provide responses to Defendants’ propounded Requests for Production, Form Interrogatories, and Requests for Admission. (Declaration of Anthony Bell, ¶6.) Here, Defendants’ Form Interrogatories seek basic information from Plaintiff regarding the incident at issue, as well as Plaintiff’s basic identifying details and insurance information — information Defendants are entitled to. (Index of Exhibits, Ex. C.) Defendants’ Request for Production similarly requests basic pertinent information in the form of a copy of Plaintiffs’ auto insurance declarations page. (Index of Exhibits, Ex. C.) Plaintiff’s failure to provide responses in turn prevents Defendants from conducting essential discovery they are entitled to. The Court therefore agrees with Defendants that requiring Plaintiff to provide responses to Defendants’ unanswered Requests for Production and Form Interrogatories (Set One) is justified. Moreover, due to Plaintiff’s failure to respond, the Court concludes that the truth of the matters contained in Defendants’ Requests for Admission must be deemed admitted. (Wilcox v. Birtwhistle (1999) 21 Cal. 4th 973, 979.)II. SanctionsDefendants request $1,110.00 in sanctions for each motion, attesting to 5 hours worked at a $210.00 hourly rate from the time already spent bringing each motion in addition to the time Defendants’ anticipate working — in addition to a $60.00 filing fee. (Declaration of Anthony Bell, ¶ 8). Defendants’ counsel asserts he spent 2 hours preparing each motion, anticipated another 3 hours to review opposing papers, reply as needed, prepare for and attend the hearing as to each motion. (Id.)The Court finds Defendants’ $210.00 hourly rate is reasonable. Defendants are also entitled to recover for the $60 filing fee incurred in bringing each motion, for a total of $180.00.However, the Court reduces Defendants’ total number of hours worked from 5 hours on each motion to 2 hours — 1.5 hours in preparing each motion and 1.5 hours to prepare for and attend the hearing — for a total of 6 hours, or $1,260.00. Defendants’ motions are uncomplicated, unopposed, and boilerplate; the language and substance of Defendants’ motions overlap considerably. The Court’s reduction thus reflects the reasonable number of hours spent preparing each motion, and the likely anticipated additional work Defendants’ counsel is likely to spend. Defendants are thus entitled sanctions in the amount of $1,440.00 total, or $480.00 for the reasonable costs for each of Defendants’ three motions. RULINGBased on the foregoing, the Court rules as follows:Defendants’ motion to compel responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One) is GRANTED. Defendants’ request for sanctions pertaining to the motion is GRANTED in the amount of $480.00.  Plaintiff to serve code-compliant responses without objections within 20 days of this order.Defendants’ motion to compel responses to Requests for Production is GRANTED. Defendants’ request for sanctions pertaining to the motion is GRANTED in the amount of $480.00. Plaintiff to serve code-compliant responses without objections within 20 days of this order.Defendants’ motion to deem responses admitted to Requests for Admission is GRANTED. Defendants’ request for sanctions pertaining to the motion is GRANTED in the amount of $480.00.