 Case Number:  24NNCV01970    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  T DemurrerSarkis Gezalyan v. Azat Gezalyan, et al. Moving Party: Cross-Defendants Sarkis Gezalyan; Susana MuradianResponding Party: Cross-Complainants Azat Gezalyan; Shapiro Ventures LLC.Tentative Ruling: SUSTAIN, IN PART; OVERRULE, IN PARTBACKGROUND The Cross-Complainant alleges that in 2023, Cross-Defendants fraudulently procured several loans in the name of Cross-Complainant company Shapiro Ventures, LLC, in which Cross-Complainant Azat Gezalyan (“Azat”) and Cross-Defendant Sarkis Gezalyan (“Sarkis”) were joint venturers. They also allege that Sarkis perpetuated a Ponzi scheme using personal and third-party money in as collateral, with interest, to force Azat out of the business and acquire his equity for himself. The Cross-Complaint alleges that Sarkis embezzled funds, creating false claims, documents and accounts. (See generally, Cross-Complaint; Demurrer, p. 3.)  The only operative factual allegation relating to Cross-Defendant Muradian is that she is married to Sarkis.MOVING PARTY POSITION Defendants argue that the Court should sustain their demurrer on the basis that the Cross-Complaint fails to state any allegations as to the “embezzled funds, created false claims, documents and accounts” and specifically fails to make any allegation as to "how it was embezzled, what was embezzled, what false claims were made on what documents and on what accounts.” (Demurrer, p. 3.) As a result, Defendants argue the Cross-Complaint fails to properly plead the causes of action is alleged. Specifically, the first and second causes of action for breach of contract, third cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty, fourth cause of action for conversion, fifth cause of action for violation of Penal Code section 496, sixth cause of action for unjust enrichment, seventh cause of action for accounting, and eighth cause of action for injunctive relief. (Id. at 4–8.)OPPOSITION Cross-Complainants argue that the facts pled in the Cross-Complaint are sufficient to support their causes of action and meet the requirements overrule a demurrer. (Amended Opposition, p. 3.) Cross-Complainants alternatively request leave to amend if the Court finds the Cross-Complaint is not sufficiently pled. (Id. at 4.)REPLYDefendants emphasize that Cross-Complainants “provided no indication as to what investigations have they done, what documents they are referencing, and what third party assets have been misappropriated.” (Reply, p. 3.) Defendants emphasize that “[e]very allegation within their Cross-Complaint is ambiguously and vaguely stated without any supporting evidence.” (Id.)ANALYSIS DemurrerA demurrer is a procedure to object to a pleading set forth under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, et seq.  Because a demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters, a demurrer analysis considers only those defects which appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)  When considering demurrers, courts assume the truth of the facts alleged in the pleading and read the allegations liberally and in context. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074, 1081.) A demurrer must be denied where the complaint states a cause of action "under any possible legal theory." (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.) The court must “liberally” construe the complaint’s allegations "with a view to substantial justice." (Code Civ. Proc. § 452.) A demurrer for sufficiency attacks a pleading on the ground that it does not contain facts sufficient to state a cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10 (e); Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  Parties may also demur to causes of action individually.  In either case, the procedure is also called a ‘demurrer for sufficiency,’ and it tests the pleading by itself, alone and disconnected from extraneous matters.  (Hahn at 747.) A complaint is required to give the defendant notice of the issues sufficient to enable preparation of the defense. (Ponte San Diego Residential Community, LP. v. Procopio, Cory, Hargreaves & Smith, LLP (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 265, 278.) Mere recital, or reference to, material facts that are left to surmise are subject to demurrer for uncertainty. (Bernstein v. Piller (1950) 98 Cal.App.2d 441, 443-444.) Demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and granted only if the pleading is so unclear that the defendant cannot reasonably understand the issues to be met. (A.J. Fistes Corp. v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695.) The Court addresses each cause of action in turn.I. Breach of Contract “If the action is based on an alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written instrument must be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Otworth v. S. Pac. Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 459.) Here, the Cross-Complaint does not attach (or even identify) the contract at issue and does not recite verbatim the terms of the contract. As a result, the Cross-Complaint is deficient with respect to this cause of action.  The demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as to the first cause of action.II. Breach of Implied ContractThe breach of implied contract cause of action is deficient on similar grounds as the first cause of action; namely, the Cross-Complaint alleges facts too vague to put Defendants on notice of what contract is implied, and by extension what actions Defendants took in violation of a potential implied contract. While the Cross-Complaint does allege Cross-Defendant took possession of monetary proceeds delivered to them by third parties, the Court finds this allegation is not, by itself, sufficient to support a breach of implied contract cause of action. (Cross Complaint, p. 5.) Accordingly, the demurrer is sustained with leave to amend as to the second cause of action. III. Breach of Fiduciary Duty A fiduciary duty arises “when one person enters into a confidential relationship with another.” (Hasso v. Hapke (2014) 227 Cal.App.4th 107, 140.) Fiduciary duties are also imposed as a matter of law in certain technical, legal relationships. (Cleveland v. Johnson (2012) 209 Cal.App. 4th 1315, 1339.) "In all proceedings connected with the conduct of the partnership every partner is bound to act in the highest good faith to his copartner and may not obtain any advantage over him in the partnership affairs by the slightest misrepresentation, concealment, threat or adverse pressure of any kind." (Enea v. Sup. Ct. (3-D) (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1559, 1564.)The Cross-Complaint here pleads sufficient facts to support this cause of action. Where allegations are sufficiently clear to apprise a defendant of the issues — even if not as detailed as might be desired — the demurrer should be overruled. (Bacon v. Wahrhaftig (1950) 97 Cal.App.2d 599, 605.) In this instance, the Cross-complaint provides several specific allegations as to how Defendant Sarkis allegedly violated a fiduciary duty to Cross-Complainants, including embezzling money and secretly incurring debt in Cross-Complainants’ name without their consent. (Cross Complaint, p. 5–6.)   These allegations are sufficient to support a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty.  As a result, the demurrer is overruled as to the third cause of action.IV. ConversionConversion is the wrongful exercise of dominion over another person's personal property. (See Fremont Indem. Co. v. Fremont Gen. Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.) Conversion requires a defendant to have committed a wrongful act or disposed of the property in a manner inconsistent with the plaintiff's property rights, causing damages to plaintiff. (Voris v. Lampert (2019) 7 Cal.5th 1141; Berry v. Frazier (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1258.) Conversion is a strict liability tort, meaning that the defendant's knowledge, intent, good faith, or motive are generally immaterial to the claim. (Welco Electronics, Inc. v. Mora (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 202.) The Cross-Complaint pleads sufficient facts to support the fourth cause of action for conversion as to Sarkis, but not as to Cross-Defendant Muradian. The Cross-Complaint alleges sufficiently specific facts as to Defendant Sarkis’ involvement, such as embezzling Cross-Complainants’ money. (Cross Complaint, p. 5–6.) However, the Cross-Complaint fails to allege any facts regarding Cross-Defendant Muradian’s potential involvement. While Defendant Muradian need only intentionally take an action inconsistent with Cross-Complainants’ property rights, the Cross-Complaint here provides no allegation whatsoever as to what action she potentially took that implicated Cross-Complainants' rights. Cross-Defendant Muradian is alleged to have interfered with Cross-Complainants’ ownership interest by “misappropriating, embezzling and converting” business proceeds, relying singularly on the operative factual allegation that she is married to Sarkis; it does not allege Cross-Defendant Muradian is an owner, agent, or manager involved in Shapiro Ventures. (Cross Complaint, p. 3.) Cross-Defendant Muradian’s marriage to Sarkis is not sufficient to put her on notice of what action she took that constitutes conversion, nor how such conversion occurred. As a result, the demurrer to the fourth cause of action is overruled with respect to Sarkis and sustained as to Cross-Defendant Muradian.V. Violation of Penal Code Section 496To violate Penal Code § 496, the property in question must be stolen or obtained through theft or extortion. Additionally, the accused must have received, concealed, sold, withheld, or aided in concealing, selling, or withholding the property from the owner, and must have known that the property was stolen or obtained through theft or extortion. (Penal Code§ 496; People v. Coca (2023) 96 Cal.App.5th 451.)The Cross-Complaint pleads sufficient facts to support the fifth cause of action for violation of Penal Code section 496 as to Sarkis, but not as to Cross-Defendant Muradian. The Cross-Complaint here alleges Sarkis covertly incurred debts in Cross-Complainants’ name and embezzled funds for his personal benefit. (Cross Complaint, p. 5–6.) This is sufficient to give notice to Sarkis as to the nature of the issue involved in this cause of action.Conversely, the Cross-Complaint fails to allege sufficient facts as to Cross-Defendant Muradian’s potential involvement in violating Penal Code Section 496. Cross-Complainants’ amended opposition states that the Cross-Complaint pleads sufficient facts — stating that in 2016 Cross-Defendant Muradian “fraudulently executed a grant deed” with the intent and purpose of deceiving Cross-Complainant Azat Gezalyan, and alleges that Defendants collected, and misappropriated Cross-Complainants’ money. (Opposition, p. 7.) This allegation was not contained in the Cross-Complaint. The Court accordingly finds the Cross-Complaint to be unjustifiably vague as to Cross-Defendant Muradian as to this cause of action. As a result, the demurrer to the fifth cause of action is overruled with respect to Sarkis and sustained as to Defendant Muradian.VI. Unjust Enrichment The elements of a cause of action for unjust enrichment are the receipt of a benefit and the unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of another. (Professional Tax Appeal v. Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc. (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 230.)The Cross-Complaint pleads sufficient facts to support the sixth cause of action for unjust enrichment as to Sarkis, but not as to Cross-Defendant Muradian. The reasoning as to this cause of action is identical to the Court’s reasoning as to the cause of action for conversion, and demands the same result. Namely, that the demurrer to the sixth cause of action is overruled with respect to Sarkis and sustained as to Cross-Defendant Muradian.VII. AccountingA cause of action for accounting requires a relationship between the plaintiff and defendant that requires an accounting, and that a balance is due to the plaintiff that can only be ascertained by an accounting. (Sass v. Cohen (2020) 10 Cal.5th 861.) The purpose of an accounting is to discover how much money, if any, is owed to the plaintiff. (Teselle v. McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156.)The Cross-Complaint here pleads sufficient facts to support the seventh cause of action for accounting as to Sarkis, but not as to Cross-Defendant Muradian. The Cross-Complaint alleges Sarkis’ involvement and partnership in a business venture with Cross-Complainants, and that money owed to Cross-Complainants was misappropriated. The Cross-Complaint thus alleges facts as to both the issues on the relationship with Cross-Complainants, as well as an alleged misappropriation that requires an accounting. (Cross Complaint, p. 3–4.) However, the Cross-Complaint fails to make allegations about the relationship linking Cross-Defendant Muradian to Cross-Complainants that creates a duty for an accounting. Cross-Complainants do not allege, for instance, that Defendant Muradian is an owner or partner of the business. Accordingly, the demurrer to the seventh cause of action is overruled with respect to Sarkis and sustained as to Defendant Muradian.VIII. Injunctive reliefInjunctions are equitable in nature and the general purpose of prejudgment injunctive relief is to preserve the status quo pending a determination on the merits. (Jamison v. Department of Transport. (2016) 4 CA5th 356, 36.) Courts weigh two factors in considering injunctive relief, including the likelihood of success on the merits, and the balance of harms. (Department of Fair Employment and Housing v. Superior Court of Kern County (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 356; Tulare Lake Canal Company v. Stratford Public Utility District (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 380.) A preliminary injunction can be granted even if the complaint is subject to a general or special demurrer, and any defects in the complaint can be corrected by filing an amended complaint showing good grounds for the injunction. (Handyspot Co. of Northern Cal. v. Buegeleisen (1954) 128 Cal.App.2d 191.) The court has the discretion to grant a preliminary injunction based on a verified complaint, affidavits, or oral testimony. (People v. Black's Food Store (1940) 16 Cal.2d 59.)The Cross-Complaint here pleads sufficient facts to support the eighth cause of action for injunctive relief as to Sarkis, but not as to Cross-Defendant Muradian. The reasoning here is similar to the Court’s reasoning as to the seventh cause of action and demands the same result. Namely, that the demurrer as to the eighth cause of action is overruled with respect to Sarkis and sustained as to Cross-Defendant Muradian.RULING Based on the foregoing, the Court rules as follows:As to Defendant Sarkis Gezalyan, Cross-Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the first and second causes of action for breach of contract and breach of implied contract, and OVERRULED as to the remaining causes of action.As to Defendant Susana Muradian, Cross-Defendant’s demurrer is SUSTAINED as to causes of action four through eight.Cross-Complainants are granted 20 days leave to amend.  