 Case Number:  21STCV45711    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  T Petition to Confirm Minor's CompromiseMoving Party:  Petitioner Leslie RamirezRuling: Denied.  The medical records reflect that Julian sustained a Grade III liver laceration, a right middle lobe pulmonary contusion, and a tongue laceration.  Julian was admitted to the hospital on February 12, 2020 and discharged on February 14, 2020.  He was instructed not to take any NSAIDs until cleared by a trauma surgeon.  He was also instructed not to engage in PE, sports or heavy lifting for at least 5 weeks.  The petition does not contain any subsequent medical records after Julian’s discharge.  The Court is left to speculate as to whether Julian received any follow-up treatment and his current condition.  The petition specifically states that “…a report of the claimant’s current condition must be attached to this petition…” (See MC-350, Section 8).  While Leslie Ramirez submitted a declaration stating Julian “has completely recovered from the injuries sustained,” this conclusory statement is not supported with any detail and fails to address whether Julian had any treatment after his February 14, 2020 discharge.  Presumably, Julian has seen at least one doctor since 2020 that would describe his then-current condition.  The petition notes that April Ascencio received $150,000 in settlement of her claim against the same defendant.  The Court is not provided with any information regarding Ms. Ascencio’s relationship to Julian or suggesting that Ms. Ascencio’s injuries or damages were four times greater than those sustained by Julian.  As such, on this record, the Court cannot determine whether the allocation of the settlement is equitable or if Julian’s best interests were represented by that allocation.Counsel submitted a declaration suggesting that his fees of 40% are supported.  Counsel claims he did extensive legal work, but provides no significant detail suggesting that his work was particularly time consuming or required significant legal skills.  The only motion filed appears to be an opposition to a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint against Ms. Ascencio, who was also represented by counsel.  The motion and opposition appears to be limited to protecting Ms. Ascencio’s rights, not Julian’s.  In sum, the declaration is unpersuasive.    Counsel is directed to file an amended petition and proposed order that include:1. Medical records reflecting any follow-up care provided to Julian for the subject injury and the most current medical record reflecting his current condition.2. A declaration describing April Ascencio’s injuries and medical expenses.3. A declaration from counsel explaining how the division the settlement funds are equitable.4. A reduction of attorney fees to 25%.A hearing the Amended Petition to Approve Compromise of Disputed Claim is scheduled for February 6, 2025 at 8:30 a.m.