 Case Number:  21STCV44285    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  T DemurrerJane Y.G. Doe v. Residences on Main L.P., et al. Moving Party: Defendants Residences on Main, L.P.; Residences on Main, G.P.; Sonny’s Construction, LLC, (“SCL”); Coalition of Responsible Community Development Responding Party: Plaintiff Jane DoeTentative Ruling: OVERRULEDBACKGROUND This action arises from a sexual assault by third party Christopher Hicks on Plaintiff on July 24, 2021, at 6901 South Main Street, Los Angeles, CA 90003 (“Premises”; FAC ¶¶ 20, 30–42.) Plaintiff sought remedies for the incident by initiating proceedings with the Workers’ Compensation Appeals Board (“WCAB”), which remains ongoing. Plaintiff initiated this Superior Court action on December 3, 2021, based on the same remedies sought in the WCAB proceeding. On July 3, 2024, this Court granted LA Family Housing Corporation’s (“LAFH”) Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings, which was joined by Defendants. This Court found that (1) the Privette doctrine barred Plaintiff’s claims, (2) the primary assumption of risk barred Plaintiff’s claims, and (3) no duty of care existed with respect to third-party criminal conduct. The Court’s findings were based upon facts alleged in Plaintiff’s initial complaint; specifically, that Plaintiff was an employee of GTO Security, a company that the Defendants contracted with to provide security services on the Premises. (Complaint ¶¶ 16, 18, 23, 24). This Court granted Plaintiff leave to amend. Plaintiff subsequently filed her First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) on July 23, 2024. In her FAC, Plaintiff named 11 entities and individuals as defendants, including Defendants here, alleging their acts or omissions — whether individually, jointly, and/or severally — were a proximate cause of her assault. (FAC ¶¶ 2 15). Specifically, Plaintiff alleged that Defendants were aware that Plaintiff’s assailant had previously made physical threats to other residents of the building (FAC ¶ 32), failed to advise Plaintiff of the danger (FAC ¶54), were informed by Plaintiff that her assailant was on the premises and that he made her uncomfortable and disregarded her fears and did not address her concerns. (FAC ¶¶ 34–35.) Plaintiff’s FAC also alleges they did not purchase workers compensation insurance for her benefit. (FAC ¶ 24.)MOVING PARTY POSITION Defendants argue Plaintiff is unable to plead around the deficiencies of her initial Complaint. Plaintiff provides no explanation of mistake or excuse where her FAC contradicts harmful facts in the initial Complaint and instead offers up legal conclusions which are unsupported by any new facts. (Demurrer, p. 4.) Defendants specifically assert Plaintiff’s claims are barred by the Privette doctrine and primary assumption of risk doctrine. (Id. at 6, 9.) Additionally, Defendants argue they had no duty to protect against third party criminal conduct. (Id. at 10.) Defendants also argue that alternative theories of liability relying on agency and vicarious liability fail. (Id. at 8.) Lastly, Defendants argue Plaintiff’s FAC is a sham pleading. (Id. at 12.)OPPOSITION Plaintiff argues she has pleaded sufficient facts to state a cause of action against all Defendants. (Opposition, p. 4.) Plaintiff asserts her allegations provide support for multiple theories of liability that do not implicate the Privette doctrine, and are sufficient to allege joint-venture liability against all Defendants. (Id. at 5, 7.) Plaintiff challenges Defendants’ arguments regarding the primary assumption-of-the-risk doctrine, arguing they incorrectly presume Plaintiff was an employee of “Defendants’ contractor,” and argues her allegations are sufficient to establish that Defendants owed her a duty. (Id. at 8–9.)REPLYNo reply has been filed.ANALYSIS I. DemurrerA demurrer is a procedure to object to a pleading set forth under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, et seq.  Because a demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters, a demurrer analysis considers only those defects which appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)  When considering demurrers, courts assume the truth of the facts alleged in the pleading and read the allegations liberally and in context. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074, 1081.) A demurrer must be denied where the complaint states a cause of action "under any possible legal theory." (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.) The court must “liberally” construe the complaint’s allegations "with a view to substantial justice." (Code Civ. Proc. § 452.) A demurrer for sufficiency attacks a pleading on the ground that it does not contain facts sufficient to state a cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10 (e); Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The demurrers do not contend that Plaintiff failed to allege sufficient facts to generically support causes of action for negligence or premises liability.  Rather, the demurrers argue that Plaintiff’s claims fail based on procedural or other legal grounds.  They will be addressed in turn. a. Sham PleadingCalifornia law generally allows plaintiffs to plead inconsistent causes of action in separate counts when the exact nature of the facts or the legal rights are in doubt. (Batta v. Hunt (2024) 106 Cal.App.5th 295.) This practice accommodates uncertainties about what actually occurred or what can be established by the evidence. (Id.) However, there are limitations. A plaintiff may not avoid a demurrer by pleading facts or positions in an amended complaint that contradict the facts pleaded in the original complaint or by suppressing facts that prove the pleaded facts false (Cantu v. Resolution Trust Corp. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 857; McKell v. Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457.) “Under the sham pleading doctrine, allegations in an original pleading that rendered it vulnerable to demurrer or other attack cannot simply be omitted without explanation.” (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 751.) “The purpose of the doctrine is to enable the courts to prevent an abuse of process.” (Id.) “The doctrine is not intended to prevent honest complainants from correcting erroneous allegations or to prevent the correction of ambiguous facts.” (Id.)The FAC in this case does not amount to a sham pleading. Plaintiff is entitled to allege alternative facts to accommodate the uncertainty in this case. Namely, a great deal of uncertainty exists as to Plaintiff’s actual employer, the extent of ownership control over the Premises by the parties, and the scope of the security agreement. Alternative factual allegations relying on alternative legal theories are permissible — provided the allegations do not contain antagonistic or contradictory facts. (Berman v. Bromberg (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 936.) Plaintiff’s FAC does provide a wide swathe of factual allegations to support different legal theories; however, the FAC does not include allegations of fact that are mutually exclusive or antagonistic. b. The Privette DoctrineThe Privette doctrine generally holds that a hirer is not liable for injuries sustained by an independent contractor or its employees while on the job, as the responsibility for workplace safety is typically delegated to the contractor. (Gonzalez v. Mathis (2021)12 Cal.5th 29; Acosta v. MAS Realty, LLC (2023) 96 Cal.App.5th 635.)There are two primary exceptions to the Privette doctrine: Retained Control and Concealed Hazard. Under the Retained Control Exception, a hirer may be liable if it retains control over any part of the contractor's work and negligently exercises that control in a manner that affirmatively contributes to the worker's injury. (Ramirez v. PK I Plaza 580 SC LP (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 252 (2022); Sandoval v. Qualcomm Incorporated (2021) 12 Cal.5th 256.) The Concealed Hazard Exception exposes a hirer to liability if it knew or should have known of a concealed hazard on the property that the contractor did not know of and could not have reasonably discovered, and the hirer fails to warn the contractor of the hazard. (Ramirez v. PK I Plaza 580 SC LP (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 252.)Here, Plaintiff alleges in the FAC that each of the demurring parties owned, managed, leased, controlled and operated the Premises (FAC ¶ 20), were aware that Plaintiff’s assailant had previously made physical threats to other residents of the building (FAC ¶ 32) and failed to advise Plaintiff of the danger that her assailant presented. (FAC ¶ 54). These allegations of fact establish a theory of liability that does not implicate the Privette doctrine — namely under the Concealed Hazard exception. (Ramirez v. PK I Plaza 580 SC LP (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 252.) Defendants argue that hazardous conditions refers to a physical danger or defect in the property; however, Defendants’ cited case, Gonzalez v. Mathis (2021) 12 Cal.5th 29 does not make any ruling supporting this proposition — nor do Defendants explain how the analysis in Gonzalez applies here.Moreover, the FAC alleges that Defendants retained control of all or part of Plaintiff’s work and “negligently exercised that control in a manner that affirmatively contributed to her injury.” (FAC ¶ 25.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants controlled when she worked at the Premises and gave instructions on what Plaintiff would need to do while performing her work there. (FAC ¶ 25.) Plaintiff’s allegations, taken as true, support a basis for negligence liability that does not implicate the Privette doctrine under the Retained Control exception. (Ramirez v. PK I Plaza 580 SC LP (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 252 (2022); Sandoval v. Qualcomm Incorporated (2021) 12 Cal.5th 256.) These allegations allege conduct by Defendants that falls below reasonable care. Thus, the FAC alleges sufficient facts to state a cause of action against the Defendants outside the applicability of the Privette doctrine. c. Primary Assumption of RiskUnder the primary assumption of risk doctrine, the defendant owes no duty to protect the plaintiff from particular harms arising from ordinary or simple negligence. (Truong v. Nguyen (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 865; Shin v. Ahn (2007) 42 Cal.4th 482.) This is because the plaintiff is considered to have assumed the inherent risks of the activity by choosing to participate. (Truong v. Nguyen (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 865; Shin v. Ahn (2007) 42 Cal.4th 482.) The application of the doctrine depends on the nature of the sport or activity in question and the parties' general relationship to the activity. (Peart v. Ferro (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 60; Moser v. Ratinoff (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 1211.) The court evaluates the fundamental nature of the activity and the defendant's role in or relationship to that activity to determine whether the defendant owes a duty to protect the plaintiff from the particular risk of harm. (Peart v. Ferro (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 60.)Thus, whether the primary assumption of risk doctrine applies to a security guard attacked while on duty will depend on whether the risk of such an attack is considered inherent to the job and whether the employer or other parties increased the risk beyond what is inherent in the job. (Hamilton v. Martinelli & Associates (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1012.) In the context of a security guard, if the attack is considered an inherent risk of the job, the primary assumption of risk doctrine may bar Plaintiff’s claim against her employer or other parties. (See, e.g., Tilley v. CZ Master Assn. (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 464) (concluding the primary assumption of risk doctrine applied to a security guard who was assaulted while on duty as confronting such risks was part of the job.)The doctrine of primary assumption of risk has also been applied to employment-related activities. For instance, in Herrle v. Estate of Marshall (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1761, 53 Cal.Rptr.2d 713, the plaintiff was a nurse's aide employed at a convalescent hospital, who was regularly exposed to patients with Alzheimer's disease who could be combative and violent. She was injured when one of these patients struck her. (Id. at pp. 1763–1764, 53 Cal.Rptr.2d 713.) The Herrle court held that the plaintiff assumed the risk of her injuries, as the “plaintiff, by the very nature of her profession, placed herself in a position where she assumed the duty to take care of patients who were potentially violent and to protect such patients from committing acts which might injure others.” (Herrle, supra, 45 Cal.App.4th at p. 1766, 53 Cal.Rptr.2d 713.) Thus, the doctrine of primary assumption of risk applies where a defendant is impliedly relieved of any duty of care by the plaintiff's acceptance of employment “involving a known risk or danger.” (Farnam v. State of California (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 1448, 1452, 101 Cal.Rptr.2d 642.)Here, the primary assumption of risk doctrine does not bar Plaintiff’s claims because Plaintiff’s acceptance of employment here did not involve a risk or danger that was “known” to her — and thus Defendants have not been impliedly relieved of their duty. Here, the FAC alleges that she did not expect or have any reason to expect she would be required to confront or otherwise physically engage anyone on the Premises for any reason. (Complaint ¶ 26.) Rather, Plaintiff alleges her job was to observe and report crime. (Complaint ¶ 26.) There is case law to suggest that security officers with similar responsibilities may expressly assume the risk of being assaulted by third parties under particular circumstances. (See, Tilley v. CZ Master Assn. (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 464, 469.) However, the facts alleged here do not support such a conclusion. Based on the pleadings in the FAC, the Court declines to conclude that Plaintiff “by the very nature of her profession” placed herself in a position where she assumed a duty to physically confront assailants or endure rape. The primary assumption of risk doctrine thus does not apply to Plaintiff’s claims under the facts alleged in the FAC against Defendants here.d. Third Party Criminal ConductIn Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Center (1993) 6 Cal.4th 666, the California Supreme Court analyzed the scope of a landlord's duty to provide protection from foreseeable third party crime.  The Court explained its position:“[W]e observe that, before and after our decision in Isaacs, we have recognized that the scope of the duty is determined in part by balancing the foreseeability of the harm against the burden of the duty to be imposed. In cases where the burden of preventing future harm is great, a high degree of foreseeability may be required. On the other hand, in cases where there are strong policy reasons for preventing the harm, or the harm can be prevented by simple means, a lesser degree of foreseeability may be required. Or, as one appellate court has accurately explained, duty in such circumstances is determined by a balancing of “foreseeability” of the criminal acts against the burdensomeness, vagueness, and efficacy of the proposed security measures.”  (Id. at 678-679 (internal citations and quotes omitted).)  Here, the Complaint alleges that “Defendants were aware that HICKS had previously made physical threats to residents of the SUBECT PREMISES, and thus knew his presence on the property was a hazard.  Plaintiff did not know, and was not informed, that HICKS was a danger and thus his presence was a concealed danger at the SUBJECT PREMISES for which Defendants could of and should have warned Plaintiff of the danger.”  (Compl., ¶32.) These allegations, assumed to be true, are sufficient to trigger a duty on behalf of Defendants to, at the very least, warn Plaintiff of physical threats by Hicks.  As such, Plaintiff complaint does not fail based on intervening 3rd party criminal acts.  RULING Based on the foregoing, the Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED.  Defendants to answer within 20 days.