 Case Number:  21STCV19944    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  T Motion to StrikeEduardo Tizoc v. George Anthony Moran, et al.Moving Party: Defendant VCI Construction, LLC Responding Party: Plaintiffs Eduardo Tizoc; Jocelyn TizocTentative Ruling: GRANT WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMENDBACKGROUNDThis is a car accident case wherein defendant George Anthony Moran (“Moran), employed by Defendant, failed to stop at a traffic light intersection and collided with a car Plaintiff Eduardo Tizoc was a passenger in. Plaintiff Jocelyn Tizoc is making a loss of consortium claim. The Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) alleges Moran violated Defendant’s safe driving policies three times during his employment — on January 31, 2018, April 16, 2019, and May 31, 2019 — and established cause for his termination. (TAC ¶¶ 31–33.) Moreover, the TAC alleges that Defendant chose to delay suspending Moran for his third violation in the week prior to the accident here, thus allowing Moran to continue to operate a company vehicle on public roads and cause the subject accident of June 7, 2019. (TAC ¶¶ 34–39.)MOVING PARTY POSITIONDefendant argues the Court should grant the instant motion to strike Plaintiffs’ punitive damages claim on the basis that the TAC — though sufficient to allege negligence — is not enough to support punitive damages claim. (Motion p. 7.)Defendant argues this motion is made on the grounds that Plaintiffs have not plead facts that Defendant’s behavior was fraudulent, oppressive or malicious, nor that it engaged in “despicable conduct.” (Motion p. 3.) Defendant also argues the facts pled in the TAC do not support a claim for punitive damages. (Id. at 4.)OPPOSITIONPlaintiffs argue the TAC alleges sufficient facts to supports injunctive relief, specifically on the basis that Defendant had advance knowledge that Moran was unfit to drive its truck and continued to employ him as a driver in conscious disregard of public safety. (Opposition, p. 6.)REPLYDefendant argues Moran’s prior driving conduct and any knowledge of that conduct by Defendant — even if proven — would not rise to the level of malice, fraud or oppression, but rather mere negligence. (Reply, p. 2.)ANALYSISA court may strike from the complaint any irrelevant, false, or improper matter. Under CCP § 435, “[a]ny party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.” A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters, a demurrer analysis considers only those defects which appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) When considering demurrers, courts assume the truth of the facts alleged in the pleading and read the allegations liberally and in context. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074, 1081.) A demurrer must be denied where the complaint states a cause of action "under any possible legal theory." (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.) The court must “liberally” construe the complaint’s allegations "with a view to substantial justice." (Code Civ. Proc. § 452.) A demurrer for sufficiency attacks a pleading on the ground that it does not contain facts sufficient to state a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10 (e); Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)“[P]unitive damages can only be awarded “where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the Defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice.” (Civil Code §3294(a).) Civil Code §3294 defines malice, oppression and fraud as follows: (1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights. (3) “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material complaint known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (Noonan v. Rousselot (1966) 239 Cal.App.2d 447, 452.) A motion to strike punitive damages allegations lies where the claim sued upon would not support an award of punitive damages, and the punitive damages claim is irrelevant, false or improper. (Code of Civil Procedure sections 435, 436.)An employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a) based upon acts of an employee unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation. (Civil Code §3294(a).)It is appropriate here to grant Defendant’s motion to strike on the basis that the TAC’s allegations are far too vague to support a viable claim for punitive damages. Plaintiffs’ characterization of Defendant’s alleged conduct is insufficient to show oppression or malice—expressed or implied—within the meaning of Section 3294. (Nazar v. Rodeffer (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 546, 551.) Specifically, Plaintiff’s punitive damages claim relies on ambiguous allegations regarding Moran’s prior conduct as a driver, including allegations of driving under the influence and reckless driving, a hit and run collision, driving on a suspended license, running a red light, speeding, and being involved in a motor vehicle accident.  (TAC ¶¶ 23–30.) However, Plaintiff’s allegations conspicuously opt not to allege any specific facts regarding when any of Moran’s traffic violations actually occurred. Plaintiff further fails to allege whether any of the alleged violations occurred together (e.g., speeding while driving on a suspended license) or whether he was at fault for the motor vehicle accident.  While the Court is obligated to read Plaintiff’s complaint liberally, given that this is Plaintiff’s Third-Amended Complaint, the Court concludes that the lack of specificity was intentional.  Plaintiff also alleges Moran violated Defendant’s company safety policies repeatedly — emphasizing the proximity of Moran’s violations to the time of the accident by alleging specific dates — but conspicuously leaves absent any factual allegations about the nature of Moran’s violations. (TAC ¶¶ 63–68.) In doing so, Plaintiff provides allegations so broad that to make any determination on their significance would be tantamount to baseless speculation. With no concrete nexus of factual allegations of Moran’s conduct, Court here finds that no significant inferences can be gleaned regarding Defendant’s oppression, fraud, or malice. Plaintiff here relies heavily on CRST, Inc. v. Superior Court (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 1255 (“CRST”), to support his punitive damages claim. In CRST, the Court found that an employer who knows its employee is unfit to drive and, in violation of its policies, allows the employee to continue driving on its behalf, demonstrates a conscious disregard for others’ safety that is sufficient to support a punitive damages claim if the employee’s negligent driving causes an accident. (Id. at 1272.)  While this was the holding in CRST, it is important to analyze the facts in that case.  The employer in CRST knew that its driver was involved in four preventable accidents over the short period of just seven months and had been pulled over for speeding and tailgating.  Additionally, CRST failed to follow its own safety procedures relating to criminal background checks, failed to investigate after later learning the driver had a criminal conviction, failed to make inquiries of prior employers which would have revealed multiple convictions for possession and use of illegal substances, a DUI and grand theft auto.  CRST also failed to maintain a federally required random drug testing policy, allowed the driver to drive without a communication system and let him drive without a required co-driver.  Despite this laundry list of explosive facts, the Court discounted most of them.  Regarding the four preventable accidents in seven months, the Court observed:“We assess CRST's “advance knowledge” and “conscious disregard” in light of its policies, which required the termination of a driver for serious traffic violations or causing six preventable accidents within an eight-month period. In view of these policies, CRST did not act improperly by retaining Contreras, even though he may have been involved in as many as four preventable accidents, because nothing in the record suggests that they were serious.” (Id. at 1271.)The Court also discounted the driver’s checkered past, explaining, “[a]lthough Contreras had a lengthy record of substance abuse, poor driving, and criminal activity up to 2007, it is undisputed that CRST complied with federal regulations in conducting the preemployment background check and did not discover those facts regarding Contreras. We therefore examine whether CRST acquired knowledge of Contreras's unfitness as a driver after he was hired, yet improperly continued to employ him.” (Id.)Ultimately, the Court rested its finding on just one incident – the speeding and tailgating allegation.  “The evidence regarding Contreras's traffic citation, however, raises triable material issues regarding CRST's “advance knowledge” and “conscious disregard.” … Contreras was issued a [traffic] citation in 2014. According to Oliver, although Contreras was tailgating and speeding while driving through a construction zone, the officer issued a ticket only for a seatbelt-related violation. Oliver allegedly reported the incident to Davis. Davis denied hearing any such report from Oliver, but acknowledged that speeding in a construction zone or a seatbelt-related violation could support a driver's termination. In our view, Oliver's testimony, if credited by a jury, is sufficient to show that CRST had “advance knowledge of [Contreras's] unfitness ... and employed him ... with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (Id. at 218.)Plaintiff’s TAC here is distinguishable because it fails to provide specific allegations, as opposed to conclusory allegations, that reasonably support the claim conclusion that CRST had advance knowledge that Moran was unfit to drive.  Plaintiff leaves the period of when Moran’s traffic violations occurred completely undefined and likewise fails to detail Moran’s violations of Defendant’s safety rules.  As such, the Court finds no basis to support Plaintiff’s often repeated allegations that “it was highly foreseeable and likely that Moran would cause a collision and injure innocent persons including Plaintiff.”   The Court accordingly finds that no legal significance can be gleaned in either category of Plaintiff’s allegations regarding Moran’s prior conduct as a driver. As a result, the Court concludes that the TAC fails to allege facts on which a claim for punitive damages can be made, as no meaningful inference of Defendant’s conscious disregard or malice can be concluded.RULINGBased on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED.  While Plaintiff contends that additional facts have been discovered to support its claims, no such showing was made.  As such, the motion is granted without leave to amend.