  Case Number:  21STCV12000    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2024    Dept:  T DemurrerMaria Martinez v. Oportun, Inc., et al. Moving Party: Cross-Defendant Oportun, Inc.Responding Party: Cross-Complainant 1234 Madison Ave., LLC Tentative Ruling: OVERRULEBACKGROUND This action arises out of an incident where plaintiff Maria Martinez was injured by a falling sign while she sat at a restaurant at a strip mall owned by Cross-Complainant after a plastic sign face for Cross-Defendant separated from the sign pole.  Cross-Complainant obtained leave to file an amended cross complaint and added two causes of action for express indemnity and breach of contract. (Motion to Strike, p. 4; see also, First Amended Cross Complaint, p. 3-4.) The Lease Agreement (“Lease”) between parties here includes an arbitration provision. The language of the provision states: Except as provided in Paragraph B below, the Parties agree to resolve any and all claims, disputes or disagreements arising under this Lease, the Lease under Paragraph 12 of this Lease, any other defaults by Lessor, or any defaults by Lessee by and through arbitration as provided below and irrevocably waive any and all rights to the contrary. The Parties agree to at all times conduct themselves in strict, full, complete and timely accordance with the terms hereof and that any attempt to circumvent the terms of this Arbitration Agreement shall be absolutely null and void and of no force or effect whatsoever. (First Amended Cross Complaint, Ex. A, para. 59(A).)  MOVING PARTY POSITION Cross-Defendant argues the cross complaint’s two new causes of action allege violations of provisions of the Lease constitute an attempt by Cross-Complainant to circumvent the terms of the Lease arbitration provision. (Demurrer, p. 6.) Cross-Defendant asserts the Court thus does not have jurisdiction as to the two causes of action, as the contract they are purportedly based on mandates arbitration. (Id.)OPPOSITION Cross-Complainant argues that the instant demurrer is improper, and should have been brought as a motion to compel arbitration. (Opposition, p. 3.) Additionally, Cross-Complainant argues the arbitration provision provides several exceptions by enumerating categories of disputes that are expressly excluded from arbitration procedures. (Id. at 4.) Cross-Complainant further contends Cross-Defendant waived its right to compel arbitration.REPLYCross-Defendant argues its demurrer is not a motion to compel arbitration, and reiterates that Cross-Complainant waived its right to include its causes of action in the instant action when it signed the Lease. (Reply, p. 4.)ANALYSIS DemurrerA. Causes of ActionThe first amended cross complaint’s fourth cause of action for express indemnity alleges Cross-Defendant executed a written agreement requiring Cross-Defendant to defend and indemnify Cross-Complainant for its use and/or occupancy of the premises.  (First Amended Cross Complaint ¶ 12.) The cross complaint further alleges its agreement with Cross-Defendant contains an express indemnity clause which provides: “Except for Lessor’s negligence, gross negligence or willful misconduct, Lessee shall indemnify, protect, defend and hold harmless the Premises, Lessor and its agents, Lessor’s master or ground lessor, partners and Lenders, from and against any and all claims, loss of rents and/or damages, liens, judgments, penalties, attorneys’ and consultants’ fees, expenses and/or liabilities directly and solely arising out of, involving, or in connection with, the use and/or occupancy of the Premises by Lessee. If any action or proceeding is brought against Lessor by reason of any of the foregoing matters, Lessee shall upon notice defend the same at Lessee’s expense by counsel reasonably satisfactory to Lessee and Lessor shall cooperate with Lessee in such defense. Lessor need not have first paid any such claim in order to be defended or indemnified.”(First Amended Cross Complaint ¶ 13.)Based on these pleadings, the first amended cross complaint successfully alleges a cause of action for indemnity against Cross-Defendant. Namely, the cross complaint specifically alleges a that Cross-Defendant assented in a written a contract to establish a duty to indemnify Cross-Complainant for damages. The plain language of the indemnity provision applies to the damages involved in this case, as it arises out of and relates to the Premises. As a result, the Court finds the cross complaint states a cause of action for indemnity.The cross complaint’s cause of action for indemnity in turn provides the basis for the fifth cause of action against Cross-Defendant for breach of contract. Specifically, the cross complaint alleges Cross-Defendant’s failure to indemnify Cross-Complainant, pursuant to their written agreement, constitutes a breach of contract. (First Amended Cross Complaint ¶¶ 18-25.) The cross complaint thus states a clear cause of action that Cross-Defendant has breached its contractual obligations to Cross-Complainant.B. Application of Arbitration AgreementA demurrer is a procedure to object to a pleading set forth under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, et seq.  Because a demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters, a demurrer analysis considers only those defects which appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.)  When considering demurrers, courts assume the truth of the facts alleged in the pleading and read the allegations liberally and in context. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1074, 1081.) A demurrer must be denied where the complaint states a cause of action "under any possible legal theory." (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.) The court must “liberally” construe the complaint’s allegations "with a view to substantial justice." (Code Civ. Proc. § 452.) A demurrer for sufficiency attacks a pleading on the ground that it does not contain facts sufficient to state a cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10 (e); Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  The Court finds that the language of the arbitration provision in the Lease does not clearly apply to the causes of action in Cross-Complainant’s first amended cross complaint. Specifically, the plain language of the provision in the Lease requires claims, disputes, or disagreements “arising” under the Lease must be subject to arbitration. (First Amended Cross Complaint, Ex. A, para. 59(A).) The definition of “arising” is not clear. Cross-Defendant asserts the causes of action in this demurrer are clearly subject to the arbitration provision and arise under the Lease because the Lease is central to the determinations for each cause of action. The Court disagrees. The language of the arbitration provision is ambiguous as to where Cross-Complainant’s causes of action arise from; for instance, the causes of action could arise from Maria Martinez’s injury that gave rise to the original action.Cross-Complainant here additionally argues that the plain language of the arbitration provision provides for exceptions that can apply here. Namely, the Lease identifies several categories of disputes “expressly excluded” from arbitration procedures, including “[d]isputes for which a different resolution determination is specifically set forth in [the] Lease.” (First Amended Cross Complaint, Ex. A, para. 59(b).) Pertinent to this exception is paragraph 13.2 of the Lease (Remedies) which provides that “if Lessee fails to perform any of its affirmative duties or obligations,” the Lessor may “[pursue] any other remedy now or hereafter available under the laws or judicial decisions of the state wherein the Premises is located.” (First Amended Cross Complaint, Ex. A, para. 13.2(c).)  The Court finds that Cross-Complainant provides a plausible construction of the Lease agreement’s arbitration provision, under which the cross complaint could be adjudicated in this Court. Because the Court finds Cross-Complainant’s legal theory is credible, the demurrer cannot be sustained. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.).The Court notes that Cross-Defendant’s interpretation is a plausible reading of the arbitration provision of the Lease. However, the Court finds that the Lease is subject to multiple interpretations regarding its potential application. As a result, the Court finds that, on demurrer, the Court does not, as a matter of law, lack jurisdiction to consider Cross-Complainant’s causes of action for indemnity and breach of contract.C. WaiverWaiver of the right to compel arbitration generally requires a showing that the party seeking arbitration engaged in conduct inconsistent with the right to arbitrate, and that the conduct resulted in prejudice to the opposing party. Courts consider the totality of the parties' actions, including whether the litigation machinery has been substantially invoked, whether important intervening steps have taken place, and whether the delay has affected, misled, or prejudiced the opposing party, to determine whether waiver has occurred. (St. Agnes Medical Center v. PacifiCare of California (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187.) Courts look at whether the party's actions are inconsistent with the right to arbitrate. This includes engaging in discovery, filing motions, or otherwise participating in litigation (Bower v. Inter–Con Security Systems, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 1035.) The party opposing arbitration must demonstrate that they have been prejudiced by the delay in seeking arbitration. Prejudice in this context can result from incurring court costs and legal expenses, or from the opposing party gaining an advantage through litigation that would not be available in arbitration. A significant delay in seeking arbitration can also support finding waiver if the delay affected the opposing party's ability to benefit from arbitration as an expedient and cost-effective method of dispute resolution. (Diaz v. Professional Community Management, Inc. (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 1190.)As this is a demurrer, the issue of waiver is not before the Court.  However, the Court here takes judicial notice of the age of this case; the original complaint was filed on April 9, 2019, so the instant action has been ongoing for nearly four years. This raises significant concerns to the Court that the litigation machinery has been invoked so substantially and with sufficient intervening steps to constitute a waiver of the right to arbitration.  While waiver is not addressed by way of this challenge to the pleadings, the Court finds that the potential or even likely finding of waiver argument further buttresses the conclusion that denial of the demurrer is appropriate.  Specifically, even if the terms of the arbitration agreement do apply to the subject causes of action, this Court may find that the right to arbitration was waived and that the Court could continue to exercise jurisdiction over those claims.  D. Conflicting RulingsUnder Cal. Civ. Proc. Code § 1281.2(c), if a party to an arbitration agreement is also involved in a pending court action with a third party arising out of the same transaction, and there is a possibility of producing conflicting rulings on common issues of law or fact, the court has several options — including denying arbitration, staying the arbitration pending the resolution of the court action, or staying the court action pending the completion of arbitration. (Metis Development LLC v. Bohacek (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 679.) In Metis Development LLC v. Bohacek, the Court noted that the possibility of inconsistent rulings is not dispositive, and that the court has discretion to choose among its several options to avoid inconsistent rulings. (Id.) Thus, even if the Lease arbitration provision applies to the causes of action at issue in the instant demurrer, the Court here would nevertheless have the discretion to deny a motion to compel arbitration based on the potential that doing so would produce conflicting rulings. (See Abaya v. Spanish Ranch I, L.P. (2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1490) (denying motion to compel arbitration as it risked conflicting rulings on common issues of law or fact.)RULING Based on the foregoing, Cross-Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED.  Cross-Defendant to answer the remaining allegations within 20 days.  