  Case Number:  23VECV01423    Hearing Date:   December 30, 2024    Dept:  T WILLIAMS V COAD 24VECV01423
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Plaintiff Blair Williams’ Motion for Summary
Adjudication is DENIED as to all three issues presented.
Plaintiff Blair Williams’ Request
for Judicial Notice is GRANTED.
Plaintiff Blair Williams’
Evidentiary Objections within the Reply are NOT CONSIDERED.
Introduction 
Plaintiff Blair Williams
(Plaintiff) moved for summary adjudication (MSA) as to three issues partly
alleged in the Complaint filed against Defendant Peak Foreclosure Services,
Inc. (Defendant).  The three issues presented
are: (1) the  second cause of action
(COA) for money had and received; (2) the third COA for unjust enrichment; and
(3) as to whether Plaintiff “is entitled to use an independent action to
enforce the judgment based on CCP 708.210 [sic].”  (Notice to MSA, pg. 2:3-13.)     
Procedure 
For an MSA, the specific cause of
action, affirmative defense, claims for damages, or issues of duty must be
stated specifically in the notice of motion and be repeated, verbatim, in the
separate statement of undisputed material facts.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350.)  The requirement is mandatory.  Plaintiff failed to repeat, verbatim, the
issues to be adjudicated in the separate statement.  For failure to comply with the rule, there is
good cause to deny the MSA outright.
Plaintiff asserted that the
instant MSA is not duplicative of the prior Motion for Summary Judgment
(MSJ).  However, re-purposing or
re-characterizing the motion from an MSJ to an MSA does not remove the
duplicative nature or characteristics of the arguments found in the two
motions.  When Plaintiff is the moving
party on an MSJ or MSA, it is Plaintiff’s duty to produce admissible evidence
on each element of each cause of action entitling Plaintiff to a judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 437c(b)(1).)  The prior MSJ moved for judgment as to all
three COAs, which included the second COA for money had and received and the
third COA for unjust enrichment.  These
two COAs are expressly placed into issue in the instant MSA.  Because the issues presented in the MSA were
encompassed in the prior MSJ, the instant MSA, at least as to the second and
third COAs, is seen to be duplicative or in reality a reconsideration motion of
the Court’s MSJ ruling.  It is also noted
that the MSA as to the second and third COAs argued and relied upon the exact
same case law and facts argued in the prior MSJ.  For these similarities, the Court finds that
the instant MSA is mistitled and is really a motion for reconsideration.  Because Plaintiff did not present any new
facts, laws, or circumstances, the instant MSA/reconsideration motion is
unpersuasive and good cause exists to 
deny the MSA.  
It is noted that the instant MSA
added some arguments related to issues raised by the Court at the MSJ hearing
(i.e., Code Civ. Proc., sec. 708.210 and unjust enrichment not being recognized
as a COA).   However, disputes or
disagreements with the Court’s ruling is not proper grounds for an MSA or a
reconsideration motion.  
Despite Plaintiff’s contention
otherwise, the Court finds that the MSA as to the second and third COAs is
really a reconsideration motion and the motion can be denied on these grounds. 
Plaintiff’s reply asserted
evidentiary objections to the declaration of Kelli Espinoza at the end of or
within the body of the points and authorities of the reply.  Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections were
required to be filed and served separately from papers supporting or opposing
the motion and follow express formatting rules. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1354(b).) 
Plaintiff was also required to submit a proposed order for the
evidentiary objections.  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1354(c).)  These rules are
mandatory.  Plaintiff failed to comply
with these rules.  Because Plaintiff
failed to comply, the Court did not consider the objections.  (Hodjat v. State Farm Mutual Automobile
Insurance Co. (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 1, 8-9.)  

Discussion 
Even if the Court were to look
past the procedural defect in the MSA’s separate statement and the motion being
considered as a reconsideration motion, the Court finds that the MSA as to the
second and third COAs is still unpersuasive because a triable issue of fact
exists.  As was the ruling at the MSJ
hearing, there is a triable issue of fact as to notice of the judgment
lien.  The issue is relevant to the
second and third COAs pleading and proof elements.  A pleading and proof element of money had and
received is that Defendant received money that was intended to be used for the
benefit of Plaintiff.  (CACI 370.)  To the extent that unjust enrichment could be
considered a COA, Plaintiff would need to present facts to show that defendant
was unjustly enriched or that Defendant received a benefit Defendant should not
have received.  Plaintiff provided that a
judgment in Plaintiff’s favor was entered against Co-Defendant Nina Coad (Coad)
on December 14, 2023.  (Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement of Fact (PSSF) 1.)  A
non-judicial foreclosure sale of Coad’s property was conducted by Defendant and
a surplus of funds remained after the sale. 
(PSSF 5-7.)  The non-judicial
foreclosure sale occurred in October 2022 and the surplus proceeds were
released in February 2023.  (Defendant’s
Additional Statement of Facts (DASF) 2 and 4.) 
Defendant further provided that they never received any notice of the
judgment lien in Plaintiff’s favor. 
(DASF 8.)  In Plaintiff’s prior
MSJ, Plaintiff submitted evidence showing that a UCC Judgment Lien was filed on
February 5, 2024 and that Plaintiff mailed to Defendant notice of the UCC
Judgment Lien on February 6, 2024.  With
these facts, there is a triable issue of whether Defendant had knowledge of the
Judgment Lien when Defendant disbursed the surplus funds back in February
2023.  The triable issue as to knowledge
of the Judgment Lien then provides a triable issue as to whether Defendant had
knowledge that they received money that was intended to be used for the benefit
of Plaintiff or that Defendant received any benefit.  The issue of notice or knowledge were
reviewed by the Court at the prior hearing. 
The same triable issue as to notice existed back at the prior MSJ
hearing and still exists in the instant MSA. 

Even with the Court’s review of
the substance of the MSA, the Court would still find a triable issue of fact as
to notice and/or whether Defendant had knowledge that the surplus funds were
intended to be used for Plaintiff’s benefit or that the surplus funds unjustly
enriched Defendant.
The MSA as to the second and
third COAs (i.e., Issues 1 and 2) is DENIED.
As to the MSA on whether
Plaintiff is entitled to use an independent action to enforce the judgment
based upon Code of Civil Procedure, section 708.210 (i.e., a creditor’s suit),
this is not a proper basis for an MSA because the contention does not place a
cause of action, affirmative defense, issue of duty, or issue of punitive
damages before the Court.  The fact that
Plaintiff filed the instant action, and specifically, the first COA for
declaratory relief, is enough to show that Plaintiff can “use an independent
action” to enforce the judgment.  The
instant action is a creditor’s suit. 
Because the issue as stated is not proper grounds for an MSA, the motion
is unpersuasive.
The MSA as to Issue 3 is DENIED.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.