 Case Number:  23SMCV03276    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Castellanos v. Budelis, et al.
CASE
NO.:                23SMCV03276
MOTION:                  Motion to be Relieved as
Counsel 
HEARING
DATE:   11/12/2024

 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
The court may order that an
attorney be changed or substituted at any time before or after judgment or
final determination upon request by either client or attorney and after notice
from one to the other. (CCP § 284(2).) The attorney seeking to withdraw must
take “reasonable steps to avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the rights
of the client, including giving due notice to the client, allowing time for
employment of other counsel.” (Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct, 3-700(A)(2). See,
e.g., Vann v. Shilleh (1975) [holding withdrawal prejudicial where
attorney withdraw from the representation of defendant on the Friday before
trial began the following Monday].) “The determination whether to grant or deny
a motion to withdraw as counsel lies within the sound discretion of the trial
court.” (Manfredi & Levine v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th
1128, 1133.)  
 
An application to be relieved as
counsel must be made on Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and
Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053 (Proposed Order). (CRC 3.1362(a),
(c), (e).) The requisite forms must be served “on the client and on all parties
that have appeared in the case.” (CRC, 3.1362(d).) When a client is
served by mail, the attorney’s declaration must indicate that the client’s
address was confirmed within the last 30 days and how it was confirmed. (Id.)
If the attorney is unable to confirm the client’s current address, the
declaration must state the reasonable efforts made within the last 30 days to
obtain the client’s current address. (Id.) 
 
Additionally, the declaration “must
state in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney client relationship why” a motion is brought instead of filing a
substitution of attorney. (CRC, 3.1362(c).)
 
ANALYSIS
 
Hesam Yazdanpanah and the Law
Offices of Hess Panah & Associates move to be relieved as counsel of record
for Plaintiffs Joe Castellanos and Fernando Sandoval. Counsel submits all the
mandatory forms. Counsel states that an irreparable breakdown of the
attorney-client relationship has occurred, as the clients have refused to
communicate. Counsel was unable to confirm their clients’ current address after
making reasonable efforts. The declaration notes the hearings that are on
calendar, including the trial date. Given that trial is not until July 2025,
the clients will not be prejudiced by the withdrawal. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED.
The order is effective upon the filing of the proof of service of the
order on the client. Until then, counsel remains counsel of record.  In addition, the Court sets a status
conference re retention of counsel for January 28, 2025, at 8:30 a.m.