 Case Number:  20STCV21704    Hearing Date:   December 26, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
REVISED TENTATIVE RULING
 



GRIFFITH
  COMPANY,  
  
         vs.
 
WESSEX
  INVESTMENTS, LLC, et al.


 Case No.: 
  20STCV21704
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 26, 2024



 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Wessex Investments, LLC’s and ABP Parcel 6, LLC’s motion for leave to file a third
amended cross-complaint is granted.  Defendants/Cross-Complainants
may file the proposed third amended cross-complaint with the Court.
 
          Defendants/Cross-Complainants
Wessex Investments, LLC (“Wessex”) and ABP Parcel 6, LLC (“ABP”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) move for an order granting leave to file a third
amended complaint (“TAXC”) on the basis the proposed pleading clarifies certain
allegations, adds further allegations, explicitly seeks relief/adds a cause of
action pursuant to Business and Professions Code §7031(b) regarding newly
uncovered circumstances of certain contract construction work performed by
inadequately licensed subcontractors, and removes a negligence cause of action
that Cross-Complainants recently dismissed without prejudice.  (Notice Motion, pg. 2.)  
          
          Request
for Judicial Notice
          Plaintiff’s
12/11/24 request for judicial notice of the Notice of Completion recorded April
7, 2020, Los Angeles County Recorder No. 20200393100, is granted.  (P-RJN, Exh. D.)
 
          Procedural
Background
          Plaintiff
filed its operative complaint (“Complaint”) on June 9, 2020.  Defendants filed their initial
cross-complaint (“XC”) on September 15, 2020. 
On February 8, 2022, the parties stipulated to allow Defendants to file
a first amended cross-complaint (“FAXC”), which was filed on February 9, 2022.  On February 14, 2023, the parties stipulated
to allow Defendants to file the operative second amended cross-complaint
(“SAXC”), which was filed on February 21, 2023.
          Defendants filed
the instant motion on November 26, 2024. 
Plaintiff filed its opposition on December 11, 2024.  Defendants filed their reply on December 17,
2024.
 
          Motion for Leave to Amend
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (C.C.P.
§473(a)(1).) 
“Trial
courts are vested with the discretion to allow amendments to pleadings ‘in
furtherance of justice.’ That trial courts are to liberally permit such
amendments, at any stage of the proceeding, has been established policy in this
state since 1901.”  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d
486, 488-489.) 
CRC
Rule 3.1321(a) requires that a motion to amend must: “[i]nclude a copy of the
proposed . . . amended pleading . . . [and] state what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be [deleted and/or added], if any, and where,
by page, paragraph, and line number, the [deleted and/or additional]
allegations are located.” 
CRC
Rule 3.1324(b) provides, as follows: “[a] separate declaration must accompany
the motion and must specify: (1) [t]he effect of the amendment; (2) [w]hy the
amendment is necessary and proper; (3) [w]hen the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) [t]he reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.” 
Defendants’
motion substantially complies with CRC Rule 3.1324(a).  The motion
includes a copy of the proposed TAXC.  (Decl. of Taran ¶4, Exh. B.)   Defendants’
counsel’s declaration fails to set forth the allegations proposed to be added
and deleted, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number.  (See Decl. of Taran.)  However, Defendants’
counsel attaches a redline of the SAXC indicating where changes have been made
to Defendants’ pleading.  (Decl. of Taran
¶3, Exh. A.)
Defendants’
motion substantially complies with CRC Rule 3.1324(b).  Defendants’ counsel’s declaration specifies
the effect of the amendments and explains why the amendments are necessary and
proper.  (Decl. of Taran ¶6.)  Defendants assert the amendments are necessary
and proper for two reasons. The first reason is that Plaintiff has taken the
position that Defendants do not have an affirmative claim for disgorgement
under Business and Professions Code §7031(b), which Plaintiff claims must be
specifically pled.  (Decl. of Taran ¶6.)  Defendants assert that Plaintiff’s complaint
alleges proper licensure to do the work per Business and Professions Code
§7031(a) as a prerequisite to being able to seek payment; Defendants denied the
allegations in the Complaint; the scope of work and whether contractor and its
subcontractors were properly licensed.  (Decl.
of Taran ¶6.)  Defendants assert that
therefore, licensure is at issue.  Plaintiff
acknowledges that the §7031(a) prerequisite to payment is at issue; it
maintains that its electrical subcontractor was licensed to do the work that it
actually did. Plaintiff asserts that the §7031(b) disgorgement remedy must be
explicitly pled, so it is not at issue.  Defendants maintain that the general pleading
in the SAC of “such other and further relief” encompasses the §7031(b) remedy
for a failure to comply with applicable laws.  Given Plaintiff’s position, and to avoid
misunderstandings and surprises at trial, Defendants move to amend their cross-complaint
to explicitly plead a §7031(b) claim.  (Decl.
of Taran ¶6.)  
The
second reason is that on October 30, 2024, Defendants dismissed their cause of
action for negligence and Plaintiff’s counsel has indicated that because the
words “negligence” and “workmanship” remain in Defendants’ operative cross- complaint,
it intends to introduce voluminous evidence and testimony regarding standard of
care.  (Decl. of Taran ¶6.)  
Defendants’
counsel states when the facts giving rise to substantive amended allegations
were discovered and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  Defendants’ counsel declares that “[t]he
facts giving rise to the amended allegations relative to Business and Professions
Code § 7031 were discovered on September 27, 2024. As background, [Defendants]
did not discover, until February 2024, the major defect that the underground
utility lines are installed improperly in breach of the Construction Contract.
Since that time, the parties have conducted significant discovery as to the
newly discovered defect and the subcontractors involved in such work. Such
discovery included [Plaintiff] producing many more responsive documents that previously
should have been produced, with a variety of those documents addressing matters
such as details of work allocated to its electrical subcontractor. Such
discovery also included [Plaintiff] noticing and taking the deposition of Edwin
Galindo, an inspector from the Department of Housing and Community Development
(“HCD”) which is the governmental entity that has jurisdiction over the
Project, on September 27, 2024. During his deposition, Mr. Galindo testified
unequivocally that the electrical subcontractor completing the installation of
underground electrical lines was required to have a C-10 electrical specialty
license and a class A general engineering contractor’s license – Contractor’s
electrical subcontractor did not have such requisite licensing.”  (Decl. of Taran ¶7.)
Defendants’
counsel declares, “[t]he amendment was not made earlier, in part, because [Defendants]
only recently discovered the claim, and only recently dismissed its cause of
action for negligence. [Defendants] attempted to meet and confer with [Plaintiff]
regarding [Defendants’] affirmative claims under Business and Professions Code
§7031(b). [Plaintiff] insisted that such claim had to be explicitly pled in Defendants’
cross-complaint, to be at issue. While Defendants disagree[], [Defendants are]
moving to amend [their] cross-complaint.”  (Decl. of Taran ¶8.)
Plaintiff’s
argument that Defendants’ proposed amendment should be denied on the basis
Plaintiff unreasonably delayed in bringing the motion is unavailing.  The policy favoring amendment is so strong
that denial of leave to amend can rarely be justified: “If the motion to amend
is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing
party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal also
results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious cause of
action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion.”  (Morgan v. Superior Court
(1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.)  Plaintiff
argues it would be prejudiced by the Court granting the instant motion because it
would need to conduct discovery in order to respond to Defendants’ Business and
Professions Code §7031 claims but does not identify what discovery would be
necessary.  (See Opposition, pg. 11.)  Plaintiff’s argument is not well taken.  Further, Plaintiff erroneously attempts to
oppose Defendants’ motion by contesting the merits of Defendants’ disgorgement
claim, which is irrelevant to the determination of whether leave to amend should
be granted.  (Opposition, pgs. 6-11.)
Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion for leave to amend their SAXC and file the
proposed TAXC is granted.  
 
          Conclusion
Defendants’
motion for leave to amend their SAXC is granted.  Defendants are ordered to file and serve the
proposed TAXC with the Court by December 27, 2024.  Plaintiffs then have 14 days within which to
respond to the TAXC.  
          Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  December _____, 2024
                                                                             





  