  Case Number:  22STCV33871    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  55 NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:
Motion of Ray & Seyb LLP to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiffs.
 
ERNESTO GALVEZ (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against A
CARING TOUCH BOARD AND CARE III (Defendant), alleging that Defendant
constructively terminated Plaintiff’s employment as caregiver, due to Plaintiff
not being permitted to take meal or rest breaks, not being paid overtime, and
being harassed based on sexual orientation.
Now counsel moves to be relieved as attorney of record
for Plaintiff by declaring that there has been a breakdown in the
attorney-client relationship and a lack of client communication. 
“The determination whether to grant or deny an
attorney's motion to withdraw as counsel of record lies within the sound
discretion of the trial court, having in mind whether such withdrawal might
work an injustice in the handling of the case.” Lempert v. Sup. Ct.
(2003) 112 Cal.App.4th 1161, 1173. 
Here, the form notice, declaration, proposed order,
and proof of service sufficiently comply with the requirements for a motion to
be relieved as counsel. See
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362. Further, moving counsel’s declaration shows
cognizable grounds for withdrawal: 

Breakdown
     in the attorney-client relationship (or personality clash). Estate of
     Falco v. Decker (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 1004, 1014.
Client
     by conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the member to carry out
     the employment effectively (e.g., noncooperation or
     noncommunication). Rules Prof. Conduct, rule 1.16(b)(4). Cf.  Estate of Falco,
     supra, 188 Cal App.3d at 1020 (“We find no abuse of discretion in
     the trial court's implicit finding rejecting the contention that
     respondents' lack of cooperation justified appellants' withdrawal.”).

Finally, no opposing document has been filed showing
any prejudice to the client. See Rules Prof. Conduct, rule 1.16, subdiv. (d). 
Therefore, the motion is granted, and the Court will
sign a form order submitted by counsel, after counsel gives the Court the client’s
phone number to add in the blank area.