  Case Number:  23STCV17364    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Wednesday, May 29, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV17364
CASE NAME:                        O. B. v. Los Angeles Unified School District, et al. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Los Angeles Unified
School District 
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff O. B. 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer with Motion to
Strike Complaint
OPPOSITION:                        20 October 2024
REPLY:                                  21
November 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendant
LAUSD’s demurrer to the sixth and eighth causes of action is sustained with
leave to amend. The demurrer to the second, third, and seventh causes of action
is overruled. Defendant LAUSD’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s request for
attorney’s fees is denied but granted as to Plaintiff’s request for punitive
damages, with leave to amend. Plaintiff is granted 30 days leave to amend.  The court sets the OSC RE: Amended Complaint
for July 1, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. Moving party to give notice.  

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On July 27, 2023,
O.B. (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Los Angeles Unified School
District (“LAUSD”); Jerome A. Lowe (“Lowe”); and Does 1 to 50. 
 
The Complaint alleges
Plaintiff suffered personal injuries and damages due to childhood sexual abuse.
The Complaint alleges eight causes of action: (1) Sexual Assault and Battery
only against Defendant Lowe; (2) Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention
of Unfit Employee only against LAUSD; (3) Breach of Mandatory Duty: Failure to
Report Suspected Child Abuse; (4) Negligent Failure to Warn, Train, or Educate;
(5) Negligent Supervision of a Minor; (6) Negligence; (7) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (8) Sexual Harassment under Ed. Code §§
201; 220; 212.5.) 
 
Defendant LAUSD now
demurs to the second, third, sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action.
Plaintiff opposed the Motion. The matter is now before the court. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
The court may take judicial notice of records of any court of
record of the United States. (Evid. Code, § 452(d)(2).) However, the court may
only judicially notice the existence of the record, not that its contents are
the truth. (Sosinsky v. Grant (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1548, 1565.) 
 
Defendant LAUSD
requests judicial notice of the following: 
 
1)    
Plaintiff’s Complaint, a true copy of
which is attached as Exhibit “A” to the accompanying Declaration of Leslie Anne
Burnet. 
 
LAUSD’s request for
judicial notice is granted. 
 
discussion
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
A.        Demurrer 
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (CCP § 430.30(a); see also Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)¿“To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.”¿(C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist.
(2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.)¿For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the
cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly
pleaded.¿ (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962,
966-967.)¿A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of
fact or law.”¿(Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695,
713.)¿¿ 
 
B.        Motion to Strike 
 
¿Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP § 436(a)-(b); Stafford
v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not
essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be
stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
C.        Leave to Amend 
 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
II.        Demurrer to Complaint[1]
 
A.        Summary of Allegations in Complaint
 
The Complaint alleges
that when Plaintiff was 12 years old and in middle school at Gaspar De Portola
Middle School, Plaintiff’s volleyball coach, Defendant Jerome Lowe, engaged in
repeated and continuous sexual abuse of Plaintiff. (Compl., ¶¶ 1, 14-25.) In
2017, Defendant Lowe was arrested for his crimes against Plaintiff and other
students and a criminal case was brought against him (Case No. LA090920-01).
(Compl. ¶¶ 3, 28.) On May 31, 2023, Lowe was found guilty on each of 25 counts
of felony child molestation, including two pertaining to the sexual assault of
O.B.  (Compl., ¶ 3.) 
 
Plaintiff alleges that LAUSD
was aware of Lowe’s conduct but did nothing to protect its students. (Compl., ¶
2.) The Complaint alleges that on some occasions, LAUSD employees, including
Lowe’s assistant coaches personally witnessed or knew of Lowe’s sexual
inappropriate interactions with young children. (Compl., ¶ 26.) Plaintiff
believes that one of Lowe’s assistant coaches complained to the school
administration and/or local police about Lowe acting inappropriately. (Compl.,
¶ 26.)
 
B.        Exemption from the Government Tort
Claims Act
 
Under the Government
Tort Claims Act, no person may sue a public entity or public employee for money
or damages unless a timely written claim has been presented to, and acted on,
or deemed rejected by the public entity. (Gov. Code, §§ 905, 912.4, 945.4.) Defendant
LAUSD demurs to the second cause of action for Negligent Hiring, Supervision,
and Retention; third cause of action for Failure to Report Suspected Child
Abuse, Sixth Cause of Action for Negligence; seventh cause of action for
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (“IIED”); and eight cause of
action for Sexual Harassment under Ed. Code §§ 201, 220, and 212.5, on the grounds
that the claims are barred by the Government Tort Claims Act. 
 
The Complaint alleges that the
action is exempt from the Government Tort Claims Act under Gov. Code § 905(m)
because it pertains to the recovery of damages suffered as a result of
childhood sexual assault. (Compl., ¶ 12.) Gov. Code § 905(m)
exempts “[c]laims made pursuant to Section 340.1 of the Code of Civil Procedure
for the recovery of
damages suffered as a result of childhood sexual abuse.” (Gov. Code, §
904(m); see also A.M. v. Ventura Unified School Dist. (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 1252, 1254–1255 (A.M.).) 
 
Defendant argues that
Plaintiff’s second, third, seventh, and eighth cause of action require no not
fall within the exemption of Gov. Code § 905(m) and are thus barred as
untimely.[2]
 
i.          Exemption from the Government Claims
Act as to the Second Cause of Action 
 
CCP
§ 340.1 allows: 
 
 [A]n action for recovery of damages suffered as a result of
childhood sexual assault . . . for any of the following actions: 
 
(1)
An action against any person for committing an act of childhood sexual assault.
 
(2)
An action for liability against any person or entity who owed a duty of care to the plaintiff, if a
wrongful or negligent act by that person or entity was a legal cause of the
childhood sexual assault that resulted in the injury to the plaintiff.
 
(3)
An action for liability against any person or entity if an
intentional act by that person or entity was a legal cause of the childhood
sexual assault that resulted in the injury to the plaintiff.
 
CCP
§ 340.1(d) defines “Childhood sexual assault” to include: 
 
[A]ny act committed against the plaintiff that occurred when
the plaintiff was under the age of 18 years and that would have been proscribed by Section 266j of the Penal Code;
Section 285 of the Penal Code; paragraph (1) or (2) of subdivision (b), or of
subdivision (c), of Section 286 of the Penal Code; subdivision (a) or (b) of
Section 288 of the Penal Code; paragraph (1) or (2) of subdivision (b), or of
subdivision (c), of Section 287 or of former Section 288a of the Penal Code;
subdivision (h), (i), or (j) of Section 289 of the Penal Code; any sexual
conduct as defined in paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Section 311.4 of the
Penal Code; Section 647.6 of the Penal Code; or any prior
laws of this state of similar effect at the time the act was committed. This
subdivision does not limit the availability of causes of action permitted under
subdivision (a), including causes of action against persons or entities other
than the alleged perpetrator of the abuse.


(Id. [italics added].) The court
finds that the fact that section 340.1(d) “does not limit
the availability of causes of action permitted under subdivision (a)” to
mean that the causes of action that a plaintiff may bring relating to childhood
sexual assault are not exhaustive. After all, CCP § 340.1(d) “is not a type of
claim per se, it is a statute of limitations governing claims” to recover
“damages suffered as a result of childhood sexual assault” against a minor
plaintiff. (A.M., supra,  3 Cal.App.5th at p. 1262; CCP § 340.1(a)(d).)

 
Therefore, CCP § 340.1 does not limit the
causes of action that a plaintiff may bring but instead applies a special
statute of limitations for causes of action designed to recover “damages
suffered as a result of childhood sexual assault,” including against an “entity
who owed a duty of care to the plaintiff, if a wrongful or negligent act by
that person or entity was a legal cause of the childhood sexual assault
that resulted in the injury to the plaintiff.” (CCP § 340.1(a) [italics
added].) Here, Defendant LAUSD does not argue that it is not an entity that
“owed a duty of care to Plaintiff” but rather that such duty was not triggered.
(Demurrer, at p. 16:3-6.) CCP § 340.1(a) permits an action to proceed where “a
wrongful or negligent act” or “an intentional act” by LAUSD was “a legal cause
of the childhood sexual assault that resulted in the injury to the plaintiff.” 
 
Therefore, as to the second cause of
action for Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention, the court finds that
the claim on its face pertains to “damages suffered as a result of childhood
sexual assault” and is exempt from the Tort Claims Act’s presentation
requirement under Gov. Code § 905(m). 
Thus, the second cause of action is not barred. 
 
ii.         Exemption
from the Government Claims Act as to the Third Cause of Action
 
As to the applicability of Gov. Code § 905(m)
to the third cause of action, Plaintiff’s Child Abuse and Neglect Reporting Act
(“CANRA”) claim, the court notes that that pursuant to Pen. Code § 11165.1, CANRA
relies on the same Pen. Code sections as CCP § 340.1(d) to define “Sexual
assault”: 
 
(a)
“Sexual assault” means conduct in violation of one or more of the following
sections: Section 261 (rape), subdivision (d) of Section 261.5 (statutory
rape), Section 264.1 (rape in concert), Section 285 (incest), Section 286
(sodomy), Section 287 or former Section 288a (oral copulation), subdivision (a)
or (b) of, or paragraph (1) of subdivision
(c) of, Section 288 (lewd or lascivious acts
upon a child), Section 289 (sexual penetration), or Section 647.6 (child
molestation). “Sexual assault” for the purposes of this article
does not include voluntary conduct in violation of Section 286, 287, or 289, or
former Section 288a, if there are no indicators of abuse, unless the conduct is
between a person 21 years of age or older and a minor who is under 16 years of
age.
 
[.
. .]
 
(c)
“Sexual exploitation” refers to any of the following:
 
(1)
Conduct involving matter depicting a minor engaged in obscene acts in violation
of Section 311.2 (preparing, selling, or distributing obscene matter) or
subdivision (a) of Section 311.4 (employment of minor to perform obscene acts).
 
(Pen. Code, § 11165.1(a), (c).)
 
Accordingly,
the court finds that the Plaintiffs’ claim for breach of mandatory duty for
failure to report suspected child abuse falls under CCP § 340.1 because it is
an “action for recovery of damages suffered as a result of childhood sexual
assault” because it is against an “entity” whose wrongful, negligent, or
intention violation of CANRA “was a legal cause of the childhood sexual assault
that resulted in the injury to the plaintiff.” (CCP § 340.1.) Accordingly,
section 905(m) applies to the third cause of action and is not barred. 
 
iii.       Exemption
from the Government Claims Act as to the Seventh Cause of Action
 
Defendant LAUSD points out that in A.M. v. Ventura Unified School Dist., supra, 3 Cal.App.5th at p. 1264, fn. 4, the
California Supreme Court found that the plaintiff’s “claims for harassment and
other nonsexual abuse claims” were not exempt from the claim presentation
requirement under Gov. Code § 905(m) and the plaintiff was barred from pursuing
those claims. Accordingly, LAUSD asserts that Plaintiff’s seventh cause of
action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (IIED) is not exempt
from the Government Tort Claims Act under section 905(m) because it is not a
claim for sexual abuse and is thus time-barred. 
 
“Section 340.1 governs the period within
which a plaintiff must bring a tort claim based upon childhood sexual abuse.” (Quarry v. Doe I (2012) 53 Cal.4th 945, 952.) “Section
340.1, subdivision (a), gives a plaintiff additional time to pursue a tort
action for “damages suffered as a result of childhood sexual assault.” This
could include damages due to a plaintiff's
awareness that the assault resulted from a prior cover-up.” (K.M. v. Grossmont Union High School Dist. (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 717, 743.) In K.M., the plaintiff
brought various claims against the defendant school district, including an IIED
claim, and the trial involved testimony as to Plaintiff’s emotional state. (Id.
at p. 729.) The Appeal Court in K.M. made no mention of emotional
distress claims brought by a direct victim of childhood sexual assault as being
barred. 
 
The court finds that because the
Complaint alleges that Plaintiff suffered emotional distress due to Defendant’s
conduct, a cause of action for IIED relates to an action “for recovery of
damages suffered as a result of childhood sexual assault” such that it is
exempt from the Government Tort Claims presentation requirement under section
905(m). (CCP § 304.1(a).) Thus, the seventh cause of action is not barred. 
 
iv.        Exemption
from the Government Claims Act as to the Eighth Cause of Action
 
Defendant LAUSD asserts that the eighth
cause of action for Sexual Harassment under Ed. Code §§ 201; 220; 212.5 is not
exempt under Gov. Code § 905(m) because it is a claim for sexual harassment
rather than sexual abuse. 
 
Ed. Code § 212.5 defines “Sexual
harassment” as: 
 
[U]nwelcome
sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal, visual, or
physical conduct of a sexual nature, made by someone from or in the work or
educational setting, under any of the following conditions:
(a)
Submission to the conduct is explicitly or implicitly made a term or a
condition of an individual's employment, academic status, or progress.
(b)
Submission to, or rejection of, the conduct by the individual is used as the
basis of employment or academic decisions affecting the individual.
(c)
The conduct has the purpose or effect of having a negative impact upon the
individual's work or academic performance, or of creating an intimidating,
hostile, or offensive work or educational environment.
(d)
Submission to, or rejection of, the conduct by the individual is used as the
basis for any decision affecting the individual regarding benefits and
services, honors, programs, or activities available at or through the
educational institution.
 
(Ed. Code, § 212.5.)
 
Plaintiff
fails to show that a violation of Ed. Code § 212.5 for sexual harassment
qualifies as “an action for recovery of damages suffered as a result of
childhood sexual assault[.]” (CCP, § 340.1.) Specifically, Plaintiffs fail to
show that sexual harassment as defined in Ed. Code § 212.5 fits the definition
of sexual assault under CCP § 340.1(d): 
 
(c)
“Childhood sexual assault” as used in this section includes any act committed
against the plaintiff that occurred when the plaintiff was under the age of 18
years and that would have been proscribed by Section 266j of the Penal Code;
Section 285 of the Penal Code; paragraph (1) or (2) of subdivision (b), or of
subdivision (c), of Section 286 of the Penal Code; subdivision (a) or (b) of
Section 288 of the Penal Code; paragraph (1) or (2) of subdivision (b), or of
subdivision (c), of Section 287 or of former Section 288a of the Penal Code;
subdivision (h), (i), or (j) of Section 289 of the Penal Code; any sexual
conduct as defined in paragraph (1) of subdivision (d) of Section 311.4 of the
Penal Code; Section 647.6 of the Penal Code; or any prior laws of this state of
similar effect at the time the act was committed. This subdivision does not
limit the availability of causes of action permitted under subdivision (a),
including causes of action against persons or entities other than the alleged
perpetrator of the abuse.
 
(CCP § 340.1(d).)
 
The court notes that in A.M.  the California Supreme Court rejected the
plaintiff’s claim for sexual harassment as falling under the extended statute
of limitations of section 340.1. “The complaint alleges claims for harassment and other
nonsexual abuse claims. Having failed to file a valid government tort claim,
appellant may not pursue those claims.” (A.M., supra, 3 Cal.App.5th at p. 1264, fn. 4.) As a
claim for childhood sexual harassment is not a claim “suffered as a result of
childhood sexual assault” pursuant to A.M. the eighth cause is barred
due to the Plaintiff’s failure to show that they complied with the claims
presentation requirements of the Government Tort Claims Act. Thus, the demurrer
to the eighth cause of action is sustained with leave to amend.
 
C.        Second
and Third Causes of Action – LAUSD’s Duty Was Not Triggered
 
“The elements of a
cause of action for negligence are well established. They are (a) a legal duty
to use due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the
proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.” (Ladd v. County of San
Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917 [internal quotations omitted].) “A duty
may arise through statute, contract, or the relationship of the parties.” (Lichtman
v. Siemens Industry Inc. (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 914, 920 [internal
quotations and citations omitted].) The existence of a legal duty is a question
of law for the court to decide. (Adams v. City of Fremont (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 243, 265.) “However, the elements of breach of that duty and
causation are ordinarily questions of fact for the jury's determination.” (Vasquez
v. Residential Investments, Inc. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 269, 278.)
 
The second cause of action alleged that
LAUSD “had had the responsibility
and mandatory duty to adequately and properly investigate, hire, train, and
supervise their staff and to protect their students from harm caused by unfit
and dangerous individuals hired as staff.” (Compl., ¶ 41.) LAUSD “breached their
mandatory duty to properly and adequately investigate, hire, train, and
supervise Lowe.” (Compl., ¶ 43.) The third cause of action alleges that LAUSD was a
“mandated reporter” under Pen. Code § 11164 and owed a duty to comply with the
provision of CANRA and report any suspicion of child abuse. (Compl., ¶ 53.) 
 
Defendant LAUSD argues that Plaintiff’s
allegation that LAUSD knew or should have known about Lowes’ conduct is
conclusory and cannot support the finding that LAUSD’s duty was triggered. (See
D.Z. v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist. (2019) 35
Cal.App.5th 210, 230 [“[T]o support her negligent supervision claim, appellant
had to prove both that Shelburne posed a risk of harm to students
and that the risk of harm was reasonably foreseeable, i.e., that LAUSD knew or
should have known of the risk”] [italics original]; Lopez v.
Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 566, 591 [“On the negligent supervision and failure to warn claims,
Lopez will be required to show Watchtower knew or should have known of Campos's
alleged misconduct and did not act in a reasonable manner when it allegedly
recommended him to serve as Lopez's Bible instructor”].)


The court finds that what LAUSD and its
employees knew, as well as the foreseeability of Lowe’s sexual conduct remains
a disputed issue of fact. "Whether
the plaintiff will be able to prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling
upon the demurrer." (Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.) Here, it is sufficient that the Complaint alleges
that LAUSD employees, including assistant coaches, were aware of such behavior
because they witnessed it or that they should have been aware of such conduct.
(Compl., ¶¶ 26, 42, 54, 79, 102.) Furthermore “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is
strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain,
because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury
v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) The
identities of any LAUSD employees who knew or should have known about Lowe’s
conduct as well as what they knew or observed are questions that can be
resolved through discovery and does not render the second cause of action
uncertain. 
 
As to the third cause of action,
Defendant LAUSD asserts that Plaintiff’s claim for Breach of Mandatory Duty:
Failure to Report Suspected Child Abuse fails because “[t]here are no
allegations in the Third Cause of Action of the Complaint as to when the District
allegedly received the information necessitating the making of a report
pursuant to CANRA. Therefore, the allegations are conclusory, and the claim is
subject to demurrer for uncertainty pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 430.10(f).”
(Demurrer, at p. 17:2-5.) 
 
The court finds that the Complaint
sufficiently alleged that LAUSD was legally mandated to report “any reasonable
suspicions of child abuse” and that LAUSD knew or should have suspected that
Lowe engaged in sexual misconduct but failed to report such conduct and that
LAUSD is vicariously liable for LAUSD’s employees who acting within the scope
of their employment violated CANDRA. (Compl., ¶ 51-57.) Specific information as
to which employee knew what and when, are facts that can be uncovered in
discovery and the absence of such specific facts does not render Plaintiff’s
Complaint uncertain or conclusory. In Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, the California Supreme Court asserted that a plaintiff
seeking shelter under CCP § 340.1(b)(2) need only pled “ultimate rather than
evidentiary facts” and “‘may allege on information and belief any matters that
are not within his personal knowledge, if he has information leading him to
believe that the allegations are true.’[Citation].”(Id. at p. 550.) The
Court further noted that “the doctrine of less particularity may be especially
appropriate in this setting” where the defendant has superior knowledge of the
perpetrator's past acts of unlawful sexual conduct. (Id.)
 
Accordingly, the court does not find that
the second and third causes of action are uncertain or improperly pled and the
demurrer as to these two causes of action is overruled. 
 
            D.        Sixth
Cause of Action - Negligence
 
The sixth cause of action for negligence
alleges that LAUSD owed a duty to control the conduct of Low due to the special
relationship existing between said individuals. (Coml. ¶ 78.) Specifically,
LAUSD “failed to take any preventive action to control, curb, and/or prevent
that conduct, and failed to warn O.B. or her parents of that wrongful conduct,
despite having a legal duty to do so.” (Compl. ¶ 80.) Defendant LAUSD demurs to
the sixth cause of action on the basis that the Complaint fails to identify a statutory
basis for liability. 
 
The Government Claims
Act abolishes all common law or judicially declared forms of liability for
public entities, except for such liability that may be required by the state or
federal constitution. (See Miklosy v. Regents of University of California
(2008) 44 Cal.4th 876, 899; see Gov. Code, § 815(a).) ¿“[P]ublic entities may
only be held liable only if a statute is found declaring them to be liable.” (Hoff
v. Vacaville Unified School District (1998) 19 Cal.4th 925, 932.) (Richardson-Tunnell
v. School Ins. Program for Employees (2007) 157 Cal.App 4th 1056, 1061
citing Susman v. City of Los Angeles (1969) 269 Cal.App.2d 803, 809. “It
is a plaintiff's responsibility to plead facts sufficient to show their cause
of action lies outside the breadth of any applicable statutory immunity.” (Soliz
v. Williams (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 577, 585 [internal citation and quotation
marks omitted].)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff asserts
that the Complaint specifically alleges that LAUSD owed a duty of care to its
minor students. (Compl., ¶¶ 41, 53, 61, 68, 78.) However, the statutory
provision extending such liability is absent from the sixth cause of action. (Schick
v. Lerner (1987) 193 Cal.App.3d 1321, 1327
[“facts not alleged are presumed not to exist].) For example, in B.H. v. County of San Bernardino (2015) 62 Cal.4th 168,
liability was premised on Gov. Code §§ 815.2 and 815.6: 
 
The
complaint alleged two causes of action against defendants: (1) breach of a
public entity's mandatory duty to report or cross-report child abuse
allegations, under Government Code section 815.6, and (2) negligence by an
employee within the scope of employment, under Government Code section 815.2,
subdivision (a).
 
(Id. at p. 177.) 


Accordingly, the demurrer to the sixth
cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
Lastly, Defendant LAUSD argues that
the second cause of action for Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and Retention,
the fourth cause of action for Failure to Warn, Train or Educate, and the fifth
causes of action for Negligent Supervision of a Minor are duplicative of the
sixth cause of action for negligence. 
 
Plaintiff asserts that
statutory and common law theories of negligence may be pleaded simultaneously
and in separate counts. (See Landeros v. Flood
(1976) 17 Cal.3d 399, 413.) However, as LAUSD is a government
entity, its liability may only be premised on statute not common law because
the Government
Claims Act abolished all common law or judicially declared forms of liability
for public entities, except for such liability that may be required by state or
federal constitution. (See Miklosy, supra, 44 Cal.4th at p. 899.)
Thus, there can be no negligence common law causes of action
that are pleaded alongside statutory cause of action for negligence. 
 
Having reviewed the
Complaint, the court finds that the second, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of
action are premised on different operative facts and breaches of separate
duties. The second cause of action is premised on the failure to properly
train, hire, and supervise their staff. (Compl., ¶ 41.) The fourth cause of
action is premised on the failure to inform and educate Plaintiff on LAUSD’s
sexual harassment policies and how to report and respond to “inappropriate
sexual harassment by faculty; and by failing to train its faculty, including
Lowe, on LAUSD’s sexual harassment policies.” (Compl., ¶ 61.) The fifth cause
of action is premised on LAUSD’s failure to “adequately and properly supervise,
monitor, and protect O.B. from known and knowable dangers, such as those posed
by Lowe.” (Compl., ¶ 69.) The sixth cause of action is premised on LAUSD’s
failure to control or prevent Lowe’s conduct and failure to warn Plaintiff or
her parents about Lowe’s conduct. (Compl., ¶ 80.) 
 
Therefore, the court does not
find the sixth cause of action is duplicative. 
 
E.        Seventh
Cause of Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
“A cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress requires: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct
by appellants with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the appellants’ outrageous conduct. [Citation.] 
Conduct is considered outrageous when it is ‘so extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ [Citation.]” (Belen
v. Ryan Seacrest Productions, LLC (2021) 65 Cal.App.5th 1145, 1164.)
Whether the Defendant’s conduct was outrageous, oppressive, or malicious is a
question of fact for the jury. (Alcorn v. Anbro Engineering, Inc. (1970)
2 Cal.3d 493, 499.)
 
Defendant LAUSD asserts that
the seventh cause of action IIED fails to allege what facts to show that
LAUSD’s conduct was extreme or outrageous or acted with the intent or reckless
disregard towards Plaintiff. Plaintiff points out that the Complaint alleges
that Lowe as an employee of LAUSD sexually assaulted Plaintiff, including
grouping her breasts, touching her inner thigh, pressing his erect penis
against Plaintiff’s buttocks, and sending inappropriate images to Plaintiff.
(Compl., ¶¶ 16, 32.) The Complaint also alleges that LAUSD acted with reckless
disregard for Plaintiff’s rights by Placing Lowe in a position of authority
which enabled Lowe to commit wrongful sexual acts. (Comp., ¶¶ 83, 90.)
Plaintiff’s further states that because the seventh cause of action
incorporates Paragraphs 1 to 85, LAUSD’s reckless conduct can be found by the
fact that LAUSD failed to supervise its employee, failed to report the sexual
assault, failed to warn students of the dangers posed by staff, and failed to
supervise its minor students. (Compl., ¶¶ 41, 55, 62, 70, 90, 91.) 
 
Defendant LAUSD further asserts
that it cannot be held liable for the sexual assault committed by an employee
acting outside the scope of employment. 
 
“The determination as to whether an
employee committed a tort during the course of his employment turns on whether
or not: 1) the act performed was either required or ‘incident to his duties’
[citation], or 2) the employee's misconduct could be reasonably foreseen by the
employer in any event [citations].” (Clark Equipment Co. v. Wheat
(1979) 92 Cal.App.3d 503, 520–521.) However,
whether an employee’s sexual misconduct occurred outside the scope of
employment remains a disputed issue of fact. In Lisa M. v. Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial
Hospital
(1995) 12 Cal.4th 291, the California Supreme Court stated: “This court has
long held that whether an employee's tortious conduct falls outside of the scope
of employment is generally a question of
fact, even when the facts underlying that determination are not in dispute.” (Id.
at p. 371.) This court declines to make the factual determination on demurrer
that Defendant Lowe’s sexual misconduct occurred outside the scope of
employment wherein Lowe’s coaching activities entailed “certain ‘peculiar
aspects” made it foreseeable that a student may be sexually assaulted. (Id.
at p. 313.) “An intentional tort is foreseeable, for purposes of respondeat
superior, only if ‘in the context of the particular enterprise
an employee's conduct is not so unusual or startling that it would seem unfair
to include the loss resulting from it among other costs of the employer's business.’ ” (Id. at p.
302 [italics original].)
 
Based on the above, the
demurrer to the seventh cause of action is overruled. 
 
III.      Motion to Strike
 
Defendant LAUSD moves to strike
Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees and punitive damages. 
 
The court finds that Plaintiff has stated
a viable claim for attorney’s fees under CCP § 1021.5 because the action seeks
to protect children at school facilities and school-sanctioned events and
promote the “institution and
implementation of means and methods to recognize, detect and prevent pedophile
behavior against children under the care of such enterprises, and institution
of proper procedures and policies surrounding the mandatory duty to report
suspected child molestation or endangerment.” (Compl., ¶¶ 50, 59, 67, 76, 85, 96, 105.) 
 
CCP
§ 1021.5 stats, in the relevant part:

 
Upon motion, a court
may award attorneys' fees to a successful party against one or more opposing
parties in any action which has resulted in the enforcement of an important
right affecting the public interest if: (a) a significant benefit, whether
pecuniary or nonpecuniary, has been conferred on the general public or a large
class of persons, (b) the necessity and financial burden of private
enforcement, or of enforcement by one public entity against another public
entity, are such as to make the award appropriate, and (c) such fees should not
in the interest of justice be paid out of the recovery, if any. 
 
(CCP
§ 1021.5.)  
 
Plaintiff further asserts the
determination of whether Plaintiff’s action would confer a significant benefit
on the public is a question of fact not subject to resolution on demurrer. (See
Californians for Responsible Toxics Management v. Kizer
(1989) 211 Cal.App.3d 961, 966 [“The question of whether plaintiff's action is
causally linked to achieving the relief obtained is a question of fact”].) The
court agrees it would be premature to determine that the Plaintiffs are not
entitled to attorney’s fees under section 1021.5 when the Plaintiffs have yet
to prevail in this action and the merits of Plaintiff's request for attorney’s
fees are not yet properly before the court.
 
Secondly, Plaintiff is not required to
allege she attempted to settle her claims to request attorney's fees under
section 1021.5 unless she seeks to recover fees under a catalyst theory. (See (Graham v. DaimlerChrysler Corp. (2004) 34 Cal.4th 553,
594.) Plaintiff has made no such allegation. In non-catalyst cases, the
California Supreme Court declined to extend the requirement that the plaintiff
attempt to settle the action before seeking attorney’s fees under CCP § 1021.5:

 
[The] language [of CCP § 1021.5] does not expressly or by
necessary implication require that the plaintiff have attempted to settle the
dispute; it requires, instead, only that the court determine that private
enforcement was sufficiently necessary to justify the award. 
 
(Vasquez v. State of California (2008) 45 Cal.4th 243, 251–252; see also
Pipefitters Local No. 636 Defined Benefit Plan v. Oakley, Inc. (2010) 180 Cal.App.4th 1542, 1550 [explaining that the
requirement of pre-suit settlement attempts was left intact for catalyst
cases].) Thus, in awarding fees under section 1021.5 for non-catalyst cases,
the court may consider “whether the party seeking fees attempted to resolve the
matter without litigation.” (Vasquez, at p. 251.)
 
To
be sure, failed attempts to settle can help to demonstrate that litigation was
necessary, but the absence of settlement attempts does not logically or
necessarily demonstrate the contrary. Depending on the circumstances of the
case, attempts to settle may have been futile, exigent circumstances may have
required immediate resort to judicial process, or prior efforts to call the
problem to the defendant's attention—perhaps by other parties or in other
proceedings—may have been rebuffed.
 
(Id.
at p. 252.)
 
Thus, the motion to strike attorney’s
fees is denied. 
 
Defendant LAUSD moves to strike
Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages on the basis that under Gov. Code § 811.2,
LAUSD is a “public entity” and Gov. Code § 3294 prohibits punitive damages
against a public entity. Plaintiff does not maintain that punitive damages are
permissible against LAUSD but instead seeks leave to amend Paragraphs 84 and 95
to seek punitive damages only against Defendant Lowe and Does 1 to 50. 
 
Accordingly, the court grants Defendant
LAUSD’s motion to strike punitive damages with leave to amend. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant
LAUSD’s demurrer to the sixth and eighth causes of action is sustained with
leave to 
amend. The demurrer to the second, third,
and seventh causes of action is overruled. Defendant 
LAUSD’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s
request for attorney’s fees is denied but granted as 
Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages,
with leave to amend. Plaintiff is granted 30 days leave 
to amend. The court sets the OSC RE:
Amended Complaint for July 1, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. 
Moving party to give notice.  


