  Case Number:  23CMCV01624    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  A  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES – SOUTH CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



PLENITUDE HOLDINGS, LLC,
                    Plaintiff, 
          vs.
 
COUNTY
   OF LOS ANGELES,
 
                    Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO: 23CMCV01624
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER DENYING MOVANT’S MOTION TO QUASH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA
 
Dept.
  A
 
DATE:
  January 14, 2025
TIME:
  8:30 A.M. 
 
COMPLAINT
  FILED: 10/09/2023
TRIAL:
  None set
 



MOVING PARTY:              Non-party
Mark Ridley-Thomas
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff
Plenitude Holdings, LLC
1.    
Background
This is a breach of contract
action. Plaintiff Plenitude Holdings, LLC (“Plaintiff”) alleges that it and
defendant County of Los Angeles (“Defendant”) entered into a lease agreement in
2021. Plaintiff alleges that it sought a six-month extension in its time to
perform in exchange for an agreed-upon extension fee of $100,000, which
Defendant was contractually obligated to consider in good faith, but that
Defendant refused Plaintiff’s request without adequate justification or
explanation.
Non-party Mark
Ridley-Thomas (“Movant”) was Los Angeles County Supervisor for the 2nd
Supervisorial District from 2008 to 2020. Plaintiff previously sought
documentary discovery from Movant, which Movant provided on August 2, 2024 and
August 15, 2024. On October 7, 2024, Plaintiff served a deposition subpoena on
Movant. On November 14, 2024, Movant filed the instant motion to quash.
2.    
Requests
for Judicial Notice
Movant seeks judicial notice of (1) the United
States Attorney’s Office press release regarding Movant’s criminal sentencing;
(2) a court order regarding Movant’s pending bail appeal, and (3) the court
docket in that appellate proceeding. 
Plaintiff seeks judicial notice of four documents:
(1)An excerpt from Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors Statement of
Proceedings dated November 21, 2017 and related Motion by Supervisor
Ridley-Thomas; (2) An excerpt from Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors
Statement of Proceedings dated November 24, 2020 and related Motion by
Supervisor Ridley-Thomas; (3) An article dated December 2, 2020 from Our Weekly
Los Angeles; (4) This court’s Minute Order dated September 5, 2024.
Factual findings in prior judicial orders,
opinions, or decisions are not a proper subject of judicial notice. (Kilroy v. State of Calif. (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 140, 148.) Nor does
the court take judicial notice of matters not relevant to the proceeding. (People ex rel. Lockyer v.
Shamrock Foods Co. (2000)
24 Cal.4th 415, 422, fn. 2.) However, pursuant to California Evidence Code
452(c), judicial notice may be taken of “[o]fficial acts of the legislative,
executive, and judicial departments of the United States and of any state of
the United States.” To that extent, the court therefore takes judicial notice
of all of the foregoing without taking judicial notice of the facts set forth
therein, with the exception of the Our Weekly Los Angeles article dated
December 2, 2020 and the United States Attorney’s Office press release both of
which the court declines to take judicial notice.
 
3.    
Discussion

Movant moves to quash
Plaintiff’s deposition subpoena of Movant on the grounds that Movant was not
employed by Defendant during the lease period, nor in other ways involved with
the lease during the lease period, and that therefore the deposition of Movant
is unnecessary and unduly burdensome. Plaintiff, in opposition, contends that
Movant was involved in the negotiations between Plaintiff and Defendant in
establishing the lease and therefore is the only person in possession of some
of the information sought to be obtained by the deposition.
Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a), the court may quash, modify,
or direct compliance with a subpoena requiring the attendance of a witness at a
deposition, or make any other order “as may be appropriate to protect the
person from unreasonable or oppressive demands.” A witness may make such a
motion to quash a deposition subpoena. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd.
(b)(2).)
A party may
obtain discovery of any non-privileged matter that is relevant to the subject
matter of the action “if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or
appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)  Though
Plaintiff has not identified with specificity the matters on which it intends
to question Movant at the noticed deposition, the Discovery Act does not
require either a records subpoena or a testimony subpoena to be accompanied by
an affidavit or declaration showing good cause. 
(Ibid., §§ 2020.310, 2020.510, subdiv. (b), and 2020.410; see Terry
v. SLICO (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 352, 359—CCP § 2020.510(b) controls over
contrary provisions in § 1985(b) and 1987.5 (requiring affidavits showing good
cause for production.) 
It appears to
the court that this deposition may be very brief due to Movant’s contention
that he lacks personal knowledge as to any of the issues raised by the
pleadings.  However, the court finds that
given Movant’s prior employment and involvement in the transactions at issue as
the “primary promoter of the project” and his role in having “sponsored every
motion and vote before the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors between 2017
and 2020 (and perhaps even earlier) relating to the development and lease at
issue in this litigation,”  Plaintiff’s
belief that Movant has or may have testimony that may be relevant to the
subject matter of the suit is not unreasonable, particularly given the broad
scope of permissible discovery.  Moreover,
Movant’s testimony may lead to the discovery of admissible evidence, through
the identification of potential witnesses, facts or documents.  
Although
Movant argues that Plaintiff’s intention is to embarrass Movant through reference
to Movant’s criminal history, the court sees no indication that Plaintiff intends
to depose Movant as to this subject.  The
court strongly discourages Plaintiff from inquiring into clearly irrelevant and
harassing areas.  Based upon the moving
papers, Movant’s criminal proceedings and the conduct allegedly giving rise to
those proceedings appear to fall into that category.  Movant may object and challenge any such line
of questioning should it arise, and/or should the questioning become hostile or
otherwise abusive. Movant has not otherwise established that the taking of a
deposition would be unnecessary and unduly burdensome, considering Plaintiff’s
assertion that Movant is the individual most knowledgeable as to the subjects on
which Plaintiff seeks to depose him.
4.    Conclusion Based on the
foregoing, the court DENIES Movant’s motion to quash deposition subpoena.

Movant is ordered to give notice. 
 
 
DATED: January 14, 2025
 
 
 

 

Hon. Elizabeth L. Bradley
Judge of the Superior Court