 Case Number:  23STCV24054    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




mark racunas

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
lockton companies, llc –
   pacific series

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV24054




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


March
   1, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendants’
  motion for order staying proceedings pending resolution in california supreme
  court
(2)  
  defendants’
  motion to dismiss complaint and/or stay action on ground of forum non
  conveniens
 



 
MOVING PARTIES:
            Defendants Lockton Companies,
LLC – Pacific Series and Lockton Investment Advisors, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff Mark Racunas 
(1)  
Motion
for Order Staying Proceedings Pending Resolution in California Supreme Court
(2)  
Motion
to Dismiss and/or Stay Action on the Ground of Forum Non Conveniens
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with each
motion. 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants defendants
Lockton Companies, LLC – Pacific Series and Lockton Investment Advisors, LLC’s
requests for judicial notice, filed on January 4, 2024 in support of their
motion to stay proceedings pending resolution in California Supreme Court.  (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) 
The court grants defendants Lockton Companies, LLC – Pacific Series and
Lockton Investment Advisors, LLC’s requests for judicial notice, filed on
November 27, 2023 in support of their motion to dismiss and/or stay action on
ground of forum non conveniens.  (Evid.
Code, § 452, subd. (d).) 
The court denies plaintiff Mark Racunas’s request for judicial notice,
filed on January 4, 2024, as to Exhibits 1-3 because rulings from other
Superior Court departments cannot be cited as binding or persuasive authority
and therefore those rulings are not relevant to a material issue presented by
the pending motion to dismiss.  (Malek
Media Group LLC v. AXQG Corp. (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 817, 825 [“Any matter
to be judicially noticed must be relevant to a material issue”].) 
The court grants plaintiff Mark Racunas’s request for judicial notice,
filed on January 4, 2024, as to Exhibit 4. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).)
The court denies plaintiff Mark Racunas’s supplemental request for
judicial notice, filed on February 16, 2024, as to Exhibits 1 and 2 because
rulings from other Superior Court departments cannot be cited as binding or
persuasive authority and therefore those rulings are not relevant to a material
issue presented by the pending motion to dismiss.  (Malek Media Group LLC, supra,
58 Cal.App.5th at p. 825.) 
The court denies plaintiff Mark Racunas’s supplemental request for
judicial notice, filed on February 16, 2024, as to Exhibit 3 because it is not
relevant to a material issue presented by the pending motion to dismiss.  (Malek Media Group LLC, supra,
58 Cal.App.5th at p. 825.)
The court denies plaintiff Mark Racunas’s second supplemental request
for judicial notice, filed on February 27, 2024, because a ruling from another
Superior Court department cannot be cited as binding or persuasive authority
and therefore it is not relevant to a material issue presented by the pending
motion to dismiss.  (Malek Media Group
LLC, supra, 58 Cal.App.5th at p. 825.) 
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Mark Racunas (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative First Amended
Complaint in this action on October 26, 2023, against defendants Lockton
Companies, LLC – Pacific Series (“Pacific Series”) and Lockton Investment
Advisors, LLC (“LIA”) (collectively, “Defendants”).  The First Amended Complaint alleges one cause
of action for declaratory relief, requesting that the court issue a judicial
declaration that, inter alia, he may freely and fairly compete against
Defendants and that the restrictive covenants set forth in his agreements with Defendants
are void and unenforceable under California law.  (FAC ¶¶ 1-2.) 
Now pending before the court are two motions filed by Defendants.  First, Defendants move the court for an order
staying proceedings pending the resolution of Lockton Cos., LLC, et al. v.
Superior Court of Los Angeles County, pet. granted December 13, 2023,
S282136 (“Giblin”) by the California Supreme Court.  Second, Defendants move the court for an
order dismissing or staying this action on the ground of forum non conveniens.
MOTION FOR STAY OF PROCEEDINGS PENDING
RESOLUTION IN CALIFORNIA SUPREME COURT
Defendants request that the court stay proceedings in this action
pending resolution of Giblin by the California Supreme Court.  (Def. RJN Ex. 1 [order granting petition for
review in Giblin].)  Plaintiff
opposes Defendants’ request, contending that he would be prejudiced by a
stay.  Plaintiff further asserts that,
because the petition was granted on a grant-and-hold basis, the Supreme Court
is unlikely to review the issues raised in Giblin.  (Def. RJN Ex. 1 [stating that “[f]urther
action in this matter is deferred pending consideration and disposition of a
related issue in EpicentRX v. S.C. (EpiRx), S282521 [citation], or
pending further order of the court”]; Opp., p. 3:16-30.)
The court finds that it is not in the interests of justice and
judicial efficiency to stay proceedings in this action pending resolution of Giblin.  (Freiberg v. City of Mission Viejo (1995)
33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489 [“Trial courts generally have the inherent power to
stay proceedings in the interests of justice and to promote judicial
efficiency”].)  The court acknowledges,
as Plaintiff has pointed out, that the California Supreme Court has deferred
review of Giblin pending the disposition of EpiRx and therefore may
not review and rule on the issues regarding the forum selection clauses at
issue in this action and Giblin. 
The court further finds that Plaintiff would be unduly prejudiced by an
indefinite stay of this action.  
The court therefore exercises its discretion to deny Defendants’
motion to stay proceedings in this action. 
(Freiberg, supra, 33 Cal.App.4th at p. 1489.) 
MOTION TO DISMISS OR STAY ON GROUND OF
FORUM NON CONVENIENS
Defendants move the court for an order dismissing or, in the
alternative, staying this action pursuant to the doctrine of forum non
conveniens. 
“When a court upon motion of a party or its own motion finds that in
the interest of substantial justice an action should be heard in a forum
outside this state, the court shall stay or dismiss the action in whole or in
part on any conditions that may be just.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 410.30, subd. (a).)  “‘Section 410.30 is a codification of the
doctrine of forum non conveniens [citation], but the principles governing
enforcement of a forum selection clause are not the same as those applicable to
motions based on forum non conveniens. 
[¶]  In California, “forum
selection clauses are valid and may be given effect, in the court’s discretion
and in the absence of showing that enforcement of such a clause would be
unreasonable.”  [Citation.]  [¶] 
The burden of proof is on the plaintiff, and the factors involved in
traditional forum non conveniens analysis do not control.  [Citation.] 
“Instead, the forum selection clause is presumed valid and will be
enforced unless the plaintiff shows that enforcement of the clause would be
unreasonable under the circumstance of the case.”  [Citations.]’”  (Korman v. Princess Cruise Lines, Ltd. (2019)
32 Cal.App.5th 206, 213.) 
1.    
The Forum Selection Clauses are Mandatory
“In a contract dispute in which the parties’ agreement contains a
forum selection clause, a threshold issue in a forum non conveniens motion is
whether the forum selection clause is mandatory or permissive.”  (Animal
Film, LLC v. D.E.J. Productions, Inc. (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 466, 471; Korman, supra, 32 Cal.App.5th at p. 215.)  “A
clause is mandatory if it requires the parties to litigate their disputes
exclusively in the designated forum, and it is permissive if it merely requires
the parties to submit to jurisdiction in the designated forum.”  (Verdugo
v. Alliantgroup, L.P. (2015) 237
Cal.App.4th 141, 147, n. 2.)  “A
mandatory clause ordinarily is ‘given effect without any analysis of
convenience; the only question is whether enforcement of the clause would be
unreasonable.’  But, if ‘the clause
merely provides for submission to jurisdiction and does not expressly mandate
litigation exclusively in a particular forum, then the traditional forum non
conveniens analysis applies. 
[Citation.]’”  (Animal Film, LLC, supra, 193 Cal.App.4th at p. 471.) 
Defendants submit (1) the Amended and Restated Member Agreement
entered into by and between Plaintiff and Pacific Series on May 1, 2016, and
(2) the Member Agreement entered into by and between Plaintiff and LIA on
September 18, 2018 (collectively, the “Agreements”).  (Mundy Decl., Ex. A, Amended and Restated
Member Agreement, p. 1; Mundy Decl., Ex. B, Member Agreement, p. 1.)  
The Agreements include the following provision: “Any action involving
any disputes, claims or issues that in any way pertain to the interpretation,
validity or enforceability of, or otherwise arise out of or relate to this
Agreement, the Operating Agreement and/or Member’s membership in [Pacific
Series or LIA], including, without limitation, any disputes, claims or issues
arising out of or relating to the rights and interests of [the Other Series,]
Affiliates and Lockton Entitles as set forth herein, shall be brought
exclusively in any Federal Court in Kansas City, Missouri or in the Circuit
Court of Jackson County, Missouri; provided, however, [Pacific Series or
LIA] shall pay promptly, upon demand from time-to-time by Member, reasonable
out-of-pocket costs of travel to attend proceedings in such forum.  Such courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction
over these matters, and Member hereby agrees to be subject to the personal
jurisdiction of such courts.  The parties
hereto agree that the provisions set forth in this Section 7.7 are fair and
reasonable.”  (Mundy Decl., Ex. A,
Amended and Restated Member Agreement, p. 12, ¶ 7.7, subd. (a) [emphasis
in original]; Mundy Decl., Ex. B, Member Agreement, pp. 11-12, ¶ 7.7, subd. (a)
[emphasis in original].) 
The court finds that the forum selection clauses set forth in the
Agreements are mandatory because they expressly state that (1) any disputes,
claims, or issues arising out of or relating to the agreements “shall be
brought exclusively in any Federal Court in Kansas City, Missouri or in
the Circuit Court of Jackson County, Missouri[,]” and (2) those courts “shall
have exclusive jurisdiction over these matters[.]”  (Mundy Decl., Ex. A, Amended and Restated
Member Agreement, p. 12, ¶ 7.7, subd. (a) [emphasis added]; Mundy Decl.,
Ex. B, Member Agreement, pp. 11-12, ¶ 7.7, subd. (a) [emphasis added].)  The court finds that this language “‘clearly
designates’” the federal court in Kansas City, Missouri and the Circuit Court
of Jackson County, Missouri “‘as the exclusive’” forums and therefore finds
that the forum selection clauses are mandatory. 
(Korman, supra, 32 Cal.App.5th at p. 215 [“‘To be
mandatory, a clause must contain language that clearly designates a forum as
the exclusive one’”]; Verdugo, supra, 237 Cal.App.4th at p. 147,
n. 2.) 
The court further finds that the forum selection clauses apply to
Plaintiff’s action for declaratory relief.  Plaintiff seeks a judicial declaration that he
may freely and fairly compete against Defendants and that the restrictive
covenants set forth in the Agreements are void and unenforceable under
California law.  (FAC ¶¶ 1-2, 69.)  Thus, Plaintiff’s action involves disputes or
claims arising out or relating to the enforceability of certain provisions of
the Agreements and is therefore encompassed by the forum selection clauses
therein.  (Mundy Decl., Ex. A, Amended
and Restated Member Agreement, p. 12, ¶ 7.7, subd. (a); Mundy Decl., Ex.
B, Member Agreement, pp. 11-12, ¶ 7.7, subd. (a).) 
2.    
Plaintiff’s Action Involves Unwaivable
Statutory Rights
“‘When a case involves a mandatory forum selection clause, it will
usually be given effect unless it is unfair or unreasonable.  [Citation.]’” 
(Korman, supra, 32 Cal.App.5th at p. 216.)  “The party opposing enforcement of a forum
selection clause ordinarily ‘bears the “substantial” burden of proving why it
should not be enforced.’”  (Verdugo,
supra, 237 Cal.App.4th at p. 147 [emphasis in original].)  “That burden, however, is reversed when the
claims at issue are based on unwaivable rights created by California
statutes.  In that situation, the party
seeking to enforce the forum selection clause bears the burden to show
litigating the claims in the contractually-designated forum ‘will not diminish
in any way the substantive rights afforded . . . under California law.’”  (Ibid., and at p. 145 [“the burden is
reversed when the underlying claims are based on statutory rights the
Legislature has declared to be unwaivable”]; G Companies Management, LLC v.
LREP Arizona, LLC (2023) 88 Cal.App.5th 342, 350 [quoting Verdugo, supra,
237 Cal.App.4th at p. 147].) 
As set forth above, Plaintiff seeks a judicial declaration that the restrictive
covenants set forth in the Agreements are unenforceable pursuant to California
law and, specifically, that they are void and unenforceable pursuant to
Business and Professions code section 16600 and California’s public policy in
favor of employee mobility and open competition.  (FAC ¶ 60.)  
Section 16600 provides that, except as otherwise provided by statute,
“every contract by which anyone is restrained from engaging in a lawful
profession, trade, or business of any kind is to that extent void.”  (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 16600, subd.
(a).)  This statute “shall be read
broadly, in accordance with Edwards v. Arthur Anderson LLP (2008) 44
Cal.4th 937, to void the application of any noncompete agreement in an
employment context, or any noncompete clause in an employment contract, no
matter how narrowly tailored, that does not satisfy an exception in this
chapter.”  (Bus. & Prof. Code, §
16600, subd. (b)(1).) 
In their reply, Defendants (1) assert that section 16600 does not set
forth an express statutory anti-waiver provision, (2) assert that rights
established thereunder, while substantively non-waivable, are not procedurally
non-waivable, and (3) therefore contend that the burden of proof on the
enforceability of a forum selection clause does not shift to Defendants,
comparing the rights at issue in this action to those presented in cases
alleged under the Fair Employment and Housing Act and the unfair competition
law.  (Reply, pp. 2:27-3:27.)  The court disagrees. 
As noted by Defendants, Civil Code section 3513 provides that “a law
established for a public reason cannot be contravened by a private agreement.”  (Civ. Code, § 3513.)  “[S]ection 16600 evinces a settled
legislative policy in favor of open competition and employee mobility[,]”
“protects Californians[,] and ensures that ‘every citizen shall retain the
right to pursue any lawful employment and enterprise of their choice.’”  (Edwards v. Arthur Anderson LLP (2008)
44 Cal.4th 937, 946.)  This statute “was
adopted for a public reason[,]” and therefore the benefits provided thereby
cannot be waived.  (Weber, Lipshie
& Co. v. Christian (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 645, 659; SingerLewak LLP
v. Gantman (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 610, 620 [“At least one court has
indicated [the rights established by section 16600] is an unwaivable
right”].)  Although the court notes, as
set forth above, that Defendants argue that the rights established by this
statute are not procedurally unwaivable because it does not include an express
non-waiver provision, the court construes the non-waiver provision in Civil
Code section 3513, pursuant to the authorities cited above, to be an express non-waiver
statute that applies to section 16600.  (Ibid.)
Thus, the court finds that (1) the rights established by section 16600
are unwaivable, and (2) the burden therefore shifts to Defendants to show that
litigating Plaintiff’s claims in Missouri will not diminish the rights afforded
to him under California law.   (Weber,
Lipshie & Co., supra, 52 Cal.App.4th at p. 659; SingerLewak
LLP, supra, 241 Cal.App.4th at p. 622; Civ. Code, § 3513; Verdugo,
supra, 237 Cal.App.4th at p. 147.) 
3.    
Enforcing the Forum Selection Clauses Would
Diminish Substantive Rights Afforded to Plaintiff under California Law
“As explained above, a defendant seeking to enforce a mandatory forum
selection clause [in an action based on unwaivable rights] bears the burden to
show enforcement will not in any way diminish the plaintiff’s unwaivable
statutory rights.  By definition, this
showing requires the defendant to compare the plaintiff’s rights if the clause
is not enforced and the plaintiff’s rights if the clause is enforced.  Indeed, a defendant can meet its burden only
by showing the foreign forum provides the same or greater rights than
California, or the foreign forum will apply California law on the claims at
issue.”  (Verdugo, supra,
237 Cal.App.4th at p. 157.) 
The court finds that Defendants have not met their burden to show that
the foreign forum (i.e., Missouri courts) provides the same or greater rights
than California or that the foreign forum will apply California law on the
claims at issue.  (Verdugo, supra,
237 Cal.App.4th at pp.147, 157.) 
First, the court notes that Defendants assert that it is equally
likely that this court could determine that Missouri law applies and that a
Missouri court could determine that California law applies.  (Mot., p. 12:10-22.)  However, this does not establish that the
Missouri courts “will apply California law on the claims at issue.”  (Verdugo, supra, 237
Cal.App.4th at p. 157 [emphasis added].) 
Second, the court notes that Defendants have argued that enforcing the
forum selection clauses will not violate Labor Code section 925.  (Mot., pp. 13:25-15:12; FAC ¶ 72
[alleging that the forum selection clauses are unlawful pursuant to Labor Code
section 925].)  Because Plaintiff has not
raised this argument in opposition, the court does not address it in ruling on
Defendants’ motion. 
Third, the court finds that litigating this action in Missouri will
diminish substantive rights afforded to Plaintiff under California law because it
appears that the restrictive covenants set forth in the Agreements would likely
not be enforceable under California law but may be enforceable in Missouri. 
The Amended and Restated Member Agreement and Member Agreement both
provide that, for a period of two years following the sale of Plaintiff’s
producer unit, Plaintiff shall not do the following: (1) directly or
indirectly, for himself or on behalf of any other person, “render services for
any competitor of [Pacific Series or LIA], or any Other Series or Affiliate, as
applicable,” and further shall not interfere with any employee’s relationship
with Defendants;  (2) “directly or
indirectly, for himself or on behalf of any other Person, solicit, induce,
persuade or encourage,” or attempt to do so, “any of the Customer Accounts
described below, if any such Customer Account qualified as a Customer Account
within the six (6) month period immediately preceding the sale of Member’s
Producer Unit, to reduce, terminate or transfer to a competitor any products or
services that are the same or substantially similar to, or directly competitive
with, the products or services provided by” Defendants; and (3) directly or indirectly,
on behalf of himself or any other person, accept, serve, or work on any such
competitive business from any such Customer Account, or in any way do business
with any of the Customer Accounts that may not be solicited.  (Mundy Decl., Ex. A, Amended and Restated
Member Agreement, pp. 7-8, ¶¶ 5.3, 5.4; Mundy Decl., Ex. B, Member
Agreement, pp. 7-8, ¶¶ 5.3, 5.4.)
The Agreements further state that the signee-member (i.e., here,
Plaintiff) “acknowledges and agrees that the nature of the business” of
Defendants “is carried on wherever a Customer Account is located . . . such
that the restrictions imposed by [the Agreements] cannot be limited to a
geographic location or region, and therefore, it is reasonable that the
restricted activities are not limited to a geographical scope or region;
rather, they extend to any geographical location where the restricted activities
are or reasonably could be conducted.” 
(Mundy Decl., Ex. A, Amended and Restated Member Agreement, p. 9,
¶ 5.5; Mundy Decl., Ex. B, Member Agreement, ¶ 5.5.) 
The parties do not appear to dispute that, under Missouri law, the
restrictive covenants set forth above would likely be enforceable.  “Missouri courts generally enforce a
non-compete agreement if it is demonstratively reasonable.  [Citation.] 
‘A non-compete agreement is reasonable if it is no more restrictive than
necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the employer.’  [Citation.] 
A non-compete agreement must be narrowly tailored temporally and
geographically and must seek to protect legitimate employer interests beyond
mere competition by a former employee.’” 
(Whelan Sec. Co. v. Kennebrew (2012) 379 S.W.3d 835, 841-842.)  Thus, because the Agreements include language
purporting to establish the reasonableness of the scope of the restrictive
covenants, a Missouri court may enforce those covenants against Plaintiff.  (Ibid.; Mundy Decl., Ex. A, Amended
and Restated Member Agreement, p. 9, ¶ 5.5; Mundy Decl., Ex. B, Member
Agreement, ¶ 5.5.) 
In contrast, a California court would be unlikely to enforce the
restrictive covenants pursuant to Business and Professions Code sections 16600
or 16602.5.  (Mot., p. 7:24-25 [asserting
that section 16602.5 applies to the covenants here].) 
“[U]nless a contractual restraint falls into one of section 16600’s
three statutory exceptions (§§ 16601 [sale of goodwill or interest in a
business], 16602 [dissolution of a partnership], or 16602.5 [dissolution or
sale of limited liability company], it ostensibly is void.”  (AMN Healthcare, Inc. v. Aya Healthcare
Services, Inc. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 923, 935.)  The exception set forth by Business and
Professions Code section 16602.5 is as follows: 
“Any member may, upon or in anticipation of a dissolution of, or the
termination of his or her interest in, a limited liability company (including a
series of a limited liability company formed under the laws of a jurisdiction
recognizing such a series), agree that he or she or it will not carry on a
similar business within a specified geographic area where the limited liability
company business has been transacted, so long as any other member of the
limited liability company, or any person deriving title to the business or its
goodwill from any such other member of the limited liability company, carries
on a like business therein.”  (Bus. &
Prof. Code, § 16602.5.)  
The restrictive covenants that are the subject of this action do not
satisfy the requirements of section 16602.5 because (1) section 16602.5 permits
restrictive covenants “within a specified geographic area where the limited
liability company business has been transacted,” and (2) the covenants here
expressly state that they “cannot be limited to a geographic location or region”
and “extend to any geographical location where the restricted activities are or
reasonably could be conducted.”  (Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 16602.5; Mundy Decl., Ex. A, Amended and Restated Member
Agreement, p. 9, ¶ 5.5; Mundy Decl., Ex. B, Member Agreement, ¶ 5.5.)
 Thus, the restrictive covenants are
likely not enforceable under California law since (1) they do not comply with
section 16602.5, and (2) as set forth above, California law requires courts to
construe section 16600 broadly “to void the application of any noncompete
agreement . . . no matter how narrowly tailored, that does not satisfy an
exception” set forth by statute.  (Bus.
& Prof. Code, §§ 16600, subd. (b)(1), 16602.5.)
The court also notes that Defendants, in reply, assert that the common
law rule of reasonableness would apply to enforce the restrictive covenants pursuant
to section 16602.5, and that California courts can blue pencil covenants, such
that the covenants would be enforceable under California law to the same extent
as they are under Missouri law.  (SingerLewak
LLP, supra, 241 Cal.App.4th at p. 623; Mot., p. 10:14-16 [citing SingerLewak
LLP, supra, 241 Cal.App.4th at pp. 622-623.)  But (1) the SingerLewak LLP Court did
“not reach the question of whether, under the guise of a rule of
reasonableness, a court . . . may imply a geographic covenant in a partnership
covenant not to compete when the parties did not include one[,]” and (2) it is
likely that a California court would not “blue pencil” the restrictive
covenants at issue here, such that the restrictive covenants would be
unenforceable under section 16602.5, while a Missouri court may modify the
restrictive covenants to render them enforceable.  (SingerLewak LLP, supra, 241
Cal.App.4th at p 623, n. 4; Strategix, Ltd. v. Infocrossing West, Inc. (2006)
142 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1074 [“courts will not strike a new bargain for the
parties ‘for the purposes of saving an illegal contract’”]; Whelan Sec. Co.,
supra, 379 S.W.3d at p. 844 [if a non-compete clause is unreasonably
broad, “courts can still give effect to its purpose by refusing to give effect
to the unreasonable terms or modifying the terms of the contract to be
reasonable”].) 
Thus, the court finds that Defendants have not met their burden to
show that litigating Plaintiff’s claims in Missouri will not diminish the
substantive rights afforded to him under California law because it appears that
the restrictive covenants at issue in this case (1) would be determined to be
unenforceable and void under California law, but (2) would be determined (or
modified) to be enforceable in Missouri. 
(Verdugo, supra, 237 Cal.App.4th at p. 147.)  The court therefore exercises its discretion
to deny Defendants’ motion to dismiss or stay this action pursuant to the
doctrine of forum non conveniens. 
ORDER

The court denies defendants Lockton Companies, LLC – Pacific Series
and Lockton Investment Advisors, LLC’s motion for order staying proceedings
pending resolution in California Supreme Court. 
The court denies defendants Lockton Companies, LLC – Pacific Series
and Lockton Investment Advisors, LLC’s motion to dismiss and/or stay this
action on the grounds of forum non conveniens. 
The court orders plaintiff Mark Racunas to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  March 1, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court