  Case Number:  22STCV20453    Hearing Date:   March 1, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




marrs services, inc.

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
los angeles county
   metropolitan transportation authority

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


22STCV20453




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


March
   1, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendant’s
  demurrer to first amended complaint
(2)  
  defendant’s
  motion to strike portions of first amended complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority        
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff MARRS Services, Inc. 
(1)  
Demurrer
to First Amended Complaint
(2)  
Motion
to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in connection with the
demurrer and motion to strike. 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs MARRS Services, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative
First Amended Complaint in this action on June 22, 2023, against defendant Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“Defendant”).  The First Amended Complaint alleges eight
causes of action for (1) violation of Government Code section 4525 et seq.; (2)
violation of Government Code section 4529.12, et seq.; (3) promissory estoppel;
(4) breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (5)
negligence; (6) intentional interference with prospective economic advantage;
(7) negligent interference with prospective economic relations; and           (8) civil conspiracy. 
Defendant now moves the court for an order (1) sustaining its demurrer
to each cause of action alleged in the First Amended Complaint, and (2)
striking from the First Amended Complaint various allegations and Plaintiff’s requests
for injunctive relief, compensatory damages, and punitive damages. 
DEMURRER
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s first through
eighth causes of action because they do not state facts sufficient to
constitute causes of action since Plaintiff has not alleged facts demonstrating
that Plaintiff complied with the claim presentation requirements set forth in
the Government Claims Act.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Lowry v. Port San Luis Harbor District (2020)
56 Cal.App.5th 211, 218 [“‘[F]ailure to allege facts demonstrating or excusing
compliance with the claim presentation requirement subjects a claim against a
public entity to a demurrer for failure to state a cause of action’”].)  
In connection with the first
through eighth causes of action, Plaintiff alleges that it has been damaged in
an amount to be determined at trial, and therefore is seeking damages on those
causes of action.[1]  (FAC ¶¶ 51, 59, 65, 72, 77, 83, 84
[requesting punitive damages in connection with sixth cause of action], 91, 96,
97 [requesting punitive damages in connection with eighth cause of action];
FAC, pp. 22-24 [Prayer].)  Thus, because
Defendant is a public entity from which Plaintiff is seeking damages, Plaintiff
is required to allege compliance (or excusal from compliance) with the
Government Claims Act.  (FAC ¶ 2
[Defendant is “a governmental public transportation agency”]; Gov. Code,
§ 945.4 [“no suit for money or damages may be brought against a public
entity on a cause of action for which a claim is required to be presented . . .
until a written claim therefor has been presented to the public entity and has
been acted upon by the board, or has been deemed to have been rejected by the
board”]; Lowry, supra, 56 Cal.App.5th at p. 218.)
“‘The essential elements of a
claim are set forth in Government Code section 910.’”  (A.S. v. Palmdale School Dist. (2023)
94 Cal.App.5th 1091, 1096; Gov. Code, § 910.) 
“Among other mandatory contents, section 910 specifies that a claim
‘shall’ include ‘[t]he date, place and other circumstances of the occurrence or
transaction which gave rise to the claim asserted,’ ‘[a] general description of
the . . . injury, damage or loss incurred so far as it may be known at the time
of presentation of the claim,’ and ‘[t]he name or names of the public employee
or employees causing the injury, damage, or loss, if known.’”  (Hernandez v. City of Stockton (2023)
90 Cal.App.5th 1222, 1230-1231.)  
First, the court acknowledges
that Plaintiff has alleged, in order to assert that it has exhausted all
administrative remedies, that Plaintiff timely submitted a Protest (and
subsequently, an Appeal of Protest) to Defendant.  (FAC ¶¶ 32-38.)  The court further acknowledges that Plaintiff
has alleged that it submitted these documents to Defendant “in accordance with
[Defendant’s] Policies and Procedures [i.e., the “Acquisition Policy and
Procedure Manual”], including its Protest Instructions[.]”  (FAC ¶¶ 32, 9 [defining “Policies and
Procedures”].)  However, it appears that
Defendant’s “Policies and Procedures” set forth a grievance procedure separate
from and independent of the Government Claims Act.  Thus, the Protest and Appeal of Protest
submitted by Plaintiff to Defendant in accordance with Defendant’s own grievance procedure regarding its acquisitions does
not satisfy or displace the claim presentation requirement under the Government
Claims Act.  
Second, even if the court were
to construe the Protest and Appeal of Protest (collectively, the “Protests”) to
be a claim within the meaning of the Government Claims Act, the court finds
that the allegations regarding Plaintiff’s submissions of the Protests do not allege
that Plaintiff complied with that statute. 
(FAC ¶¶ 32, 36.)  
Plaintiff has not attached
copies of the Protests submitted to Defendant to the First Amended
Complaint.  Instead, Plaintiff has
alleged the following: (1) the Protest (i) “discussed [Plaintiff’s] concerns
with the proposal selection process at length,” including the premature and
improper disclosures of information by Brad Owen, an executive officer for
Defendant,             (ii) discussed the
deficient Board Report, (iii) requested Zephyr be excluded altogether due to
the bias and favoritism showed it during the procurement process, and (iv) set
forth its analysis of Zephyr’s proposal and the communications between
Plaintiff and Zephyr before it withdrew from Plaintiff’s team, and (2) the
Appeal of Protest reiterated Plaintiff’s concerns with the procurement process
and Defendant’s repeated failure to justify the award of the Request for
Proposal to Zephyr.  (FAC ¶¶ 33-34,
36.)  However, these allegations do not
establish that the Protest and/or Appeal of Protest set forth all the
information required by Government Code section 910.  For example, these allegations do not state
that Plaintiff provided to Defendant “[a] general description of . . . [the]
damage or loss incurred[,]”the amount of the claim, if it totaled less than
$10,000, or “whether the claim would be a limited civil case.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 910, subds. (d), (f).) 
Thus, the court finds that the
allegations of the First Amended Complaint do not establish that Plaintiff
strictly complied with the claim presentation requirements set forth in the
Government Claims Act. 
Third, even if the court were
to construe the Protests to be a claim within the meaning of the Government
Claims Act, the court finds that the allegations regarding Plaintiff’s
submissions of its Protests do not allege substantial compliance with that
statute. 
“‘[A] claim under Government
Code section 910 is sufficient if (1) there is “some compliance with all
of the statutory requirements”; and (2) the claim discloses sufficient
information to enable the public entity adequately to investigate the merits of
the claim so as to settle the claim, if appropriate.  [Citation.] 
The latter inquiry is known as the substantial compliance test.”  (A.S., supra, 94 Cal.App.5th at
p. 1097 [emphasis in original].)  “‘The
[substantial compliance] doctrine is based on the premise that substantial
compliance fulfills the purpose of the claims statutes, namely, to give the
public entity timely notice of the nature of the claim so that it may
investigate and settle those having merit without litigation.’”  (Olson v. Manhattan Beach Unified School
Dist. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 1052, 1060.)  “The doctrine of substantial compliance,
however, cannot cure total omission of an essential element from the claim or
remedy a plaintiff’s failure to comply meaningfully with the statute.”  (Loehr v. Venture County Community College
Dist. (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 1071, 1083.) 
            Here, as alleged, the Protests did
not (1) set forth the dollar amount claimed (if it amounted to less than
$10,000), or (2) indicate whether the claim would be a limited civil case.  (Gov. Code, § 910, subd. (f).)  Further, the Protests are not alleged to have
indicated that Plaintiff would be seeking any amount of damages from Defendant,
or that Plaintiff suffered damages or losses based on Defendant’s conduct.  (Gov. Code, § 910, subds. (d),
(f).)  The court finds, based on these
omissions, that Plaintiff’s Protests did not “disclose[] sufficient information
to enable” Defendant “adequately to investigate the merits of [Plaintiff’s]
claim so as to settle the claim,” and therefore finds that, as alleged,
Plaintiff did not substantially comply with the claims presentation requirements.  (A.S., supra, 94 Cal.App.5th at
p. 1097 [“a failure to even estimate the amount of damages on the claim
document cannot be remedied by application of the [substantial compliance]
doctrine”]; Loehr, supra, 147 Cal.App.3d at p. 1083 [total
omission of an essential element cannot be cured by substantial compliance].) 
Fourth, even if the court were
to construe the Protests to be a claim within the meaning of the Government
Claims Act, the court finds that they do not constitute “claims as presented.”
“‘A claim that fails to
substantially comply with sections 910 and 910.2 may still be considered a
‘claim as presented’ if it puts the public entity on notice both that the
claimant is attempting to file a valid claim and that litigation will result if
the matter is not resolved.’”  (Simms
v. Bear Valley Community Healthcare District (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 391,
400-401.)  “An indication that litigation
might ensue if the defendant does not comply with the terms under discussion is
‘the most essential element of a “claim as presented,” because it satisfies the
primary purposes of the Government Claims Act: facilitating the investigation
of disputes and their settlement without trial if appropriate.’”  (A.S., supra, 94 Cal.App.5th at
p. 1099.)
Here, Plaintiff has not
alleged facts establishing that the Protests advised Defendant that, if the
matter was not resolved satisfactorily, Plaintiff would file suit against it.
(FAC ¶¶ 32-38.)  Plaintiff did not
allege that the Protests stated that Plaintiff was seeking compensation for
damages suffered or otherwise advise Defendant that a lawsuit would be
filed.  Moreover, as set forth above, it
appears that Plaintiff submitted the Protests in accordance with Defendant’s
grievance procedure independent of the Government Claims Act.  Thus, it appears that the submission of the
Protests did not put Defendant on notice that Plaintiff was attempting to file
a valid claim pursuant to that statutory scheme. 
Fifth, although Plaintiff has alleged that, in June 2023, it filed a
claim for damages with Defendant and a government claim with the State of
California Department of General Services, Office of Risk and Insurance
Management, the court finds that those claims were untimely and therefore do
not satisfy the claim presentation requirement.  (FAC ¶ 39.)
“A claim relating to a cause of action for death or for injury to
person or to personal property or growing crops shall be presented . . . not
later than six months after the accrual of the cause of action.  A claim relating to any other cause of action
shall be presented . . . not later than one year after the accrual of the cause
of action.”  (Gov. Code, § 911.2, subd.
(a).)  Plaintiff has alleged that, on
October 8, 2021, Defendant issued the Notice of Intent to Award and Procurement
Summary, in which Defendant awarded the Request for Proposal to Zephyr.  (FAC ¶ 19.) Thereafter, on October 13,
2021, Plaintiff submitted its Protest to Defendant, which was denied on
November 29, 2021.  (FAC ¶¶ 32, 35.)
 Plaintiff’s Appeal of Protest, submitted
to Defendant on December 3, 2021, was denied on December 22, 2021.  (FAC ¶¶ 36-37.)  
Although it appears to the court that Plaintiff’s causes of action
likely accrued by October 13, 2021 (i.e., the date on which Plaintiff submitted
the Protest), the causes of action accrued, at the latest, on December 22,
2021.  (Bennett v. Ohio National Life
Assurance Corp. (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 723, 729 [“Generally, a cause of
action accrues when it is ‘complete with all of its elements”].)  Thus, the June 2023 claims—filed a year after
December 22, 2022—are untimely on the face of the First Amended Complaint.  (FAC ¶ 39; Gov. Code, § 911.2, subd. (a).)
For the reasons set forth above, the court finds that Plaintiff has
not pleaded facts establishing that it complied with the Government Claims Act
and therefore sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the First Amended
Complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.10, subd. (e).) 
The burden is on the plaintiff “to articulate how it could amend its
pleading to render it sufficient.”¿ (Palm Springs Villas II Homeowners
Assn., Inc. v. Parth (2016) 248 Cal.App.4th 268, 290.)¿ To satisfy that
burden, a plaintiff “must show in what manner he can amend his complaint and
how that amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.”¿ (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) 
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met its burden to articulate how
it could amend its pleading to render it sufficient against Defendant and
therefore sustains the demurrer without leave to amend.
MOTION TO STRIKE
            Defendant moves the court for an
order striking Plaintiff’s requests for injunctive relief and compensatory,
punitive, and compensatory damages from the First Amended Complaint. 
            The court has sustained Defendant’s
demurrer to all the causes of action alleged in the First Amended Complaint for
the reasons set forth above.  The court
therefore denies Defendant’s motion to strike as moot.
ORDER
            The
court sustains defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority’s demurrer to plaintiff MARRS Services, Inc.’s First Amended
Complaint without leave to amend.
            The
court denies as moot defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority’s motion to strike portions of plaintiff MARRS Services, Inc.’s First
Amended Complaint. 
            The
court orders defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
to lodge and serve a proposed order of dismissal within 10 days of the date of
this order pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 581, subdivision (f)(1).
 
 
            The
court orders defendant Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority
to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  March 1, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


