 Case Number:  23STCV21898    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  14 #16Case Background
This is an action for breach of the implied warranty of
habitability, breach of the implied covenant of quiet enjoyment, fraud,
nuisance, premises liability, negligence, breach of contract, intentional
infliction of emotional distress, negligence per se, and constructive eviction.
Plaintiffs Kimberly Johnson and Onyx Brown (through a
guardian ad litem, Kimberly Johnson) filed their Complaint against Defendants
738 Mariposa, LLC, Westland Industries, Inc., Westland Real Estate Group, and
Allen Alevy on September 12, 2023.
On February 23, 2024, default was entered against
Defendants Westland Industries, Inc., Westland Real Estate Group, and 738
Mariposa, LLC. Default was not entered as to Defendant Allen Alevy.
On March 28, 2024, Defendants filed an Answer. 
On May 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for judgment
on the pleadings as to Defendants’ Answer.
On May 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to strike
Defendants’ Answer.
On June 12, 2024, Defendants filed an opposition to
Plaintiff’s motion to strike. In the opposition, Defendants moved to set aside
default.
On June 25, 2024, Plaintiff’s motions were taken off
calendar pending transfer to an independent calendar court.
On October 10, 2024, Defendants’ counsel filed a notice
of unavailability of counsel. Defendants’ counsel represented he would be out
of the state between October 10, 2024 and December 7, 2024. 
On October 11, 2024, Plaintiff re-filed her motion for
judgment on the pleadings and motion to strike. 
Instant Pleading
Plaintiff moves for judgment on the pleadings as to
Defendants’ Answer.
Decision
Plaintiff’s motion for judgment on the pleadings is
DENIED.
The Answer filed on March 23, 2024 is invalid as to
Defendants 738 Mariposa, LLC, Westland Industries, Inc., and Westland Real
Estate Group only. The Answer is still valid as to Defendant Allen Alevy.
The motion to strike set to be heard on November 21,
2024 is taken off calendar as moot.
The Court sets a hearing on Defendants’ motion to set
aside default for January 16, 2025. Plaintiff’s opposition is due on January 3,
2025. Defendants’ reply is due on January 9, 2025.
Discussion
Plaintiff moves for judgment on the pleadings as to
Defendants’ answer. Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ answer was not properly
filed because Defendants were in default at the time the Answer was filed. Plaintiff
argues that the court clerk erred in accepting the Answer.
Code Civ. Proc., section 438 provides that when the
moving party is a plaintiff, a motion for judgment on the pleadings may only be
granted where the complaint states sufficient facts to constitute a cause of
action or causes of action against the defendant and the answer does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a defense to the complaint. 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants’ Answer was not
properly filed because Defendants were in default at the time the Answer was
filed. This is not a basis upon which a motion for judgment on the pleadings
may be granted. Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion is denied.
The Court notes that default had already been entered against
738 Mariposa, LLC, Westland Industries, Inc., and Westland Real Estate Group at
the time the Answer was filed. However, Default had not been entered as to
Defendant Allen Alevy. The Court’s records show that 738 Mariposa, LLC,
Westland Industries, Inc., and Westland Real Estate Group remain in default.
The records also show that Defendant Alevy Answered. It appears the court clerk
accepted the Answer filed on March 23, 2024, because Alevy was not in default.
Thus, Plaintiff’s concerns that the defaulted Defendants Answered despite being
in default are unfounded. The Answer was not valid as to Defendants 738
Mariposa, LLC, Westland Industries, Inc., and Westland Real Estate Group. Only
Defendant Alevy has Answered. 
The Court additionally notes that Defendants’ counsel
moved to set aside default in their June 2024 opposition to Plaintiff’s motion
to strike originally filed in May 2024. However, the motion to strike was never
heard because the case was transferred from the personal injury hub to this department.

Per Code of Civil Procedure, section 473, subdivision (b), a court may
relieve a party or his counsel from a dismissal against him because of his
“mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” A court shall grant such a
motion notwithstanding any other section of the statute whenever an application
is filed “no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form,
and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit attesting to his or her
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default
entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which will result in entry
of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment or dismissal entered
against his or her client, unless the court finds that the default or dismissal
was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 473) And when such relief is available,
“there is a strong public policy in favor of granting relief and allowing the
requesting party his or her day in court.” (Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994)
8 Cal.4th 975, 981-982, internal quotations omitted.)
Every court has the power to
amend and control its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and
justice. (Code Civ. Proc., section 128(a)(8).
Here, Defendants’ deadline to file a motion to set
aside default passed on August 23, 2024. However, Defendants motion to set
aside default from June 2024 was never considered because the case was
transferred to this department and the motions were taken off calendar. Although
the motion was procedurally defective because the defaulted Defendants raised
the motion in an opposition to a motion to strike, there is a strong public
policy in favor of granting relief from default to allow litigants their day in
court. The Court is also aware that Defendants’ counsel filed a notice of
unavailability and is not available until December 2024, meaning Defendants
have not had the opportunity to address the default entered against them since this
case was transferred. If Defendants do not have the opportunity to be heard on
their motion to set aside default, they would be precluded from filing a new
motion because the deadline under Code Civ. Proc., section 473(b) has now
passed. This result is inequitable. The Court finds that a hearing on
Defendants’ motion to set aside default is necessary to allow this proceeding
to conform to law and justice. 
The Court sets a hearing on Defendants’ motion to set
aside default for January 16, 2025.
Conclusion
Plaintiff’s motion for judgment on the pleadings is
DENIED.
The Answer filed on March 23, 2024 is invalid as to
Defendants 738 Mariposa, LLC, Westland Industries, Inc., and Westland Real
Estate Group only. The Answer is still valid as to Defendant Allen Alevy.
The motion to strike set to be heard on November 21,
2024 is taken off calendar as moot.
The Court sets a hearing on Defendants’ motion to set
aside default for January 16, 2025. Plaintiff’s opposition is due on January 3,
2025. Defendants’ reply is due on January 9, 2025.