  Case Number:  23STCV14923    Hearing Date:   July 29, 2024    Dept:  26 07/29/24
Dept. 26
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
ZARGARAN v. ABEDIAN, et al. (23STCV14923)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party: Hoss Zargaran (Pro Per)
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party:  Vicken
Sonentz-Papzian (Sunderland McCutchan, LLP)
 
demurrer to FIRST AMENDED complaint (filed by Defendant Abedian on 12/18/23)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The Court SUSTAINS Defendant Abedian’s demurrer to the Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint without leave to amend.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On June 27, 2023, Plaintiff Hoss Zargaran (“Plaintiff”) filed
the instant action against Defendant Robert Abedian (“Abedian”) and Hnrick
Nazarian aka Henrick Nazarian (“Nazarian”) (jointly “Defendants”).  On
October 16, 2023, the Court sustained Defendant Abedian’s demurrer to the
complaint with leave to amend.  (Order 10/16/23.) 
 
On November
16, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendants.  The FAC asserts four causes of action for (1) Accounting, (2)
Quantum Meruit, (3) Conspiracy to Commit Fraud, and (4) Fraud. 
 
The FAC
alleges the following. Plaintiff is
“a long-time experienced manager, marketer and supervisor of restaurants and
culinary establishments in the County of Los Angeles, State of California.” 
(FAC ¶ 2.) Plaintiff assisted Defendants in managing, overseeing, and
supervising their restaurant Miro – an upscale Italian restaurant in downtown
Los Angeles – since 2018.  (FAC ¶ 8.) Recently, Miro permanently closed. 
(FAC ¶ 8.) 
 
“Plaintiff is
informed and believes, and thereon alleges, that at all times herein mentioned
and during Plaintiff’s employment history with them at MIRO, [Defendants]
represented to [Plaintiff] that they would pay Plaintiff a base salary of $
4,000 per month for his work thereat [sic] and other appropriate and
applicable’ employment benefit, compensation and income due him. The base
salary was subsequently increased to $5,500 monthly after the General Manager
was fired.”  (FAC ¶ 10.)   
 
“Within the
last two (2) years, in the County of Los Angeles, State of California,
Plaintiff is owed the sum of approximately $ 35,000 from said Defendants, with
legal interest thereon, pending further discovery, according to proof and an
accounting.”  (FAC ¶ 11.)  “It is necessary that [Plaintiff] obtain a
proper and due accounting from [Defendants], so that he can receive the balance
of any sums due and owed him, according to proof. To date, [Defendants], have
failed and refused to provide the records, accounting and pay any sums owed and
due Plaintiff, according to proof.”  (FAC ¶ 12.)   
“In or about
January, 2023, and at all other times relevant hereto, [Defendants] agreed on a
common and unlawful plan, and acted in concert, to commit the fraudulent act of
not paying Plaintiff substantial monies and sums due him for services rendered
in their restaurant business, to their unjust enrichment, as herein
alleged.”  (FAC ¶ 24.)   
 
“In or about
January, 2023, [Defendants] represented to Plaintiff that they would pay back
any monies and sums and compensation owed by them to him. Plaintiff
detrimentally relied upon said representation. The true facts were that
[Defendants] had no intention of paying him amounts owed for services rendered.
Had Plaintiff known the true facts, he would not have relied upon said
representation by these Defendants.”  (FAC ¶ 30.)   
 
On April 2, 2024, judgment was
entered in favor of Defendant Hnreck Nazarian against Plaintiff Hoss Zargarian.

 
On December 18,
2023, Defendant Abedian filed the instant demurrer to the FAC, arguing:
·       Defendant
demurs to Plaintiff’s entire FAC arguing Plaintiff’s claims are barred by the
statute of limitations
o  
Plaintiff’s admission at an earlier October 19, 2023 court
hearing, which is a part of the court record and may be judicially noticed,
establishes that Plaintiff has failed to file this Complaint within the time
afforded under the statute of limitations for each cause of action.
·       Defendant
also demurs to each of Plaintiff’s causes of action for failure to state a
claim. 
·       Defendant
argues that Plaintiff wrongfully added/substituted in a new cause of action for
quantum meruit without permission of the Court
 
No other
opposition or response was filed.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the
court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)
 
B.     Request for
Judicial Notice
 
Defendant Abedian
requests judicial notice of the October 19, 2023 Notice of Ruling with attached
Court Order, filed with the Court and part of the Court record.
 
As the Court may take judicial notice of court
records and actions of the State, (See Evid. Code, § 452(c)(d)), Defendant’s
unopposed request for judicial notice is GRANTED as to the facts and documents
cited above.  However, the Court does not take judicial notice of the
truth of assertions within. (See Herrera v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co.
(2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.) 
 
C.     Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41,
subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendant submitted a declaration stating he
attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff but did not receive a response. (Papazian Decl., ¶¶ 2-4.) The Court finds the moving party satisfied its
obligations to meet and confer and the Court proceeds on the merits. 
 
D.     Statute of
Limitations 
 
Defendant Abedian demurs to Plaintiff’s entire FAC on the
grounds that Plaintiff’s claims are barred by the statute of limitations.
 
“A
demurrer based on a statute of limitations will not lie where the action may
be, but is not necessarily, barred.  In order for the bar ... to be raised
by demurrer, the defect must clearly and affirmatively appear on the face of
the complaint; it is not enough that the complaint shows that the action may be
barred.”  (Committee for Green Foothills v. Santa Clara County Bd. of
Supervisors¿(2010) 48 Cal.4th 32, 42.)  A demurrer based on statute of
limitations is also appropriate on matters that the court may or must take
judicial notice of.  (Aaronoff v. Martinez-Senftner (2006) 136
Cal.App.4th 910, 918 [“A demurrer based on a statute of limitations is
appropriate if the ground appears on the face of the complaint or from matters
of which the court may or must take judicial notice.”].)   
 
“[T]he
nature of the right sued upon, not the form of action or the relief demanded,
determines the applicability of the statute of limitations.”  (Jefferson
v. J. E. French Co. (1960) 54 Cal.2d 717, 718.)  “The statute of
limitations usually commences¿when a cause of action ‘accrues,’ and it is
generally said¿that ‘an action accrues on the date of injury.’
[Citation.]”  (Vaca v. Wachovia Mortgage Corp. (2011) 198
Cal.App.4th 737, 743.)   
 
Plaintiff’s
first cause of action is for accounting.  (FAC ¶¶ 14-16.)  The
statute of limitations for an accounting is determined by the underlying right
or obligation sued upon.  (Jefferson v. J. E. French Co. (1960) 54
Cal.2d 717, 718–719 [accounting claim was subject to the statute of limitations
for the underlying claim for breach of an oral contract]; Bell v. Bank of
Cal. (1908) 153 Cal. 234, 242 [accounting was subject to the statute of
limitations for the underlying claim for conversion].)  Here, the only
funds allegedly owed to Plaintiff that could need accounting would be from
Plaintiff’s employment with Defendant.  (FAC ¶¶ 10-12.)  This is
further confirmed by Plaintiff’s second and underlying claim for quantum meruit
stating as such: “[Defendants] became indebted to Plaintiff for the sum of
approximately $35,000.00, with legal interest thereon from date of breach, on
account of monies owed to Plaintiff for services rendered pursuant to the
aforesaid employment relationship.” (FAC ¶ 18.) 
 
As
there is no allegation that Plaintiff’s employment relationship with Defendants
is based on a written contract, the statute of limitation for the underlying
contract claim would be two years.  (CCP § 339.)  The FAC is silent
as to when Plaintiff’s employment relationship with Defendants terminated and
merely alleges that Plaintiff demanded an accounting on January 2, 2023. (FAC ¶
15.)  However, the date of accounting does not run from a demand from
accounting but rather breach of the underlying claim.  (See Jefferson,
supra, 54 Cal.2d at pp.718–719.)   
 
Critically,
the Court notes the judicially noticed record shows that Plaintiff was
terminated in May of 2018.  Specifically, as set forth in the notice of
ruling filed on October 19, 2023 by Defendant Abedian containing the Court’s
Tentative Order – which was adopted by the Court – at footnote 1, Plaintiff
admitted in open court that he was terminated by Defendants in May 2018 and “Plaintiff
stated that he will make this clear in his First Amended Complaint.”  (Def’s
Request for Judicial Notice “RJN” Ex. A, p. 8; see also Minute Order
10/19/23.)  Thus, as the instant action was not filed until June 27, 2023
– over five years after Plaintiff’s termination – the first cause of action for
accounting is barred by the statute of limitations. 
 
Similarly,
the second cause of action, for quantum meruit is based on Plaintiff’s
employment relationship.  (FAC ¶ 18, [“[Defendants] became indebted to
Plaintiff for the sum of approximately $35,000.00, with legal interest thereon
from date of breach, on account of monies owed to Plaintiff for services
rendered pursuant to the aforesaid employment relationship.”].)  As
Plaintiff’s employment relationship self admittedly ended in May 2018, as noted
in the judicially noticed record, (Def’s RJN, Ex. A, p. 8), the second cause of
action is also barred by the statute of limitations. 
 
The
Court notes that Plaintiff did not file an opposition. “A party who has not
timely filed written opposition to a motion…may not be afforded an opportunity
to offer oral argument at the hearing.” (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997)
58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) “The failure to file opposition creates an
inference that the motion or demurrer is meritorious.”¿ (Id.)¿ “In such
cases, the court may hear argument limited to a request for a continuance of
the hearing in order to afford an opportunity for written opposition.”¿ (Id.)¿
“[T]he rule is patently intended to prevent the introduction of legal theories
without prior notice to opposing counsel and the court.”¿ (Id.) 
 
As
to the third and fourth causes of action, the claim is based on allegations of
fraud.  (Complaint ¶¶ 23-31.)  “An action for relief on the grounds
of fraud or mistake must be commenced within three years.”  (Kline v.
Turner (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1369, 1373; CCP § 338(d).)  Here, the
alleged fraud occurred at some point in January of 2023 – which is within the
limitations period.  (FAC ¶¶ 24, 30.) 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant Abedian’s demurrer to the FAC based on the statute of limitations is
SUSTAINED as to the first and second causes of action and OVERRULED as to the
third and fourth causes of action. 
 
E.    
Demurrer to the Third Cause of Action: Conspiracy to Commit Fraud
 
Defendant Abedian asserts that the third cause of action is not
sufficiently alleged.  The Court agrees. 
 
“Civil
conspiracy is not an independent tort.”  (City of Industry v. City of
Fillmore (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 191, 211.)  Rather, it is “a legal
doctrine that imposes liability on persons who, although not actually
committing a tort themselves,¿share with the immediate tortfeasors a common
plan or design in its perpetration.”  (Applied Equipment Corp. v.
Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd.¿(1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 510–511.) “The elements
of liability under conspiracy are: (1) formation and operation of the
conspiracy; (2) wrongful conduct in furtherance of the conspiracy; and (3)
damages arising from the wrongful conduct.”  (Spencer v. Mowat
(2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 1024, 1037.)   
 
“Where
fraud is alleged to be the object of the conspiracy, the claim must be pleaded
with particularity.”  (Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb & Lack
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1136.)  “Fraud allegations ‘involve a serious
attack on character’ and therefore are pleaded with specificity. 
[Citation.]  General and conclusory allegations are insufficient. 
[Citation.]  The particularity requirement demands that a plaintiff plead
facts which ‘‘‘show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations
were tendered.’’’  [Citation.]”  (Cansino v. Bank of America
(2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)  Moreover, “[e]ach element of a fraud
count must be pleaded with particularity so as to apprise the defendant of the
specific grounds for the charge and enable the court to determine whether there
is any basis for the cause of action[.]”  (Chapman v. Skype Inc.
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 231.) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff vaguely alleges that “[i]n or about January, 2023, and at all other
times relevant hereto, [Defendants] agreed on a common and unlawful plan, and
acted in concert, to commit the fraudulent act of not paying Plaintiff
substantial monies and sums due him for services rendered in their restaurant
business, to their unjust enrichment, as herein alleged.”  (FAC ¶
24.)  These allegations are insufficient to state a civil conspiracy based
on fraud. 
 
There
is no specific allegation of any specific overt act by Defendants support the
fraud claim – as required to state a claim for civil conspiracy based on
fraud.  Similarly, there is no allegation of when any specific fraud
occurred other than at some point in January 2023.  There is no indication
which Defendant did what unspecified overt act.  Further there is no
indication as to what the claimed fraud is.  Finally, as discussed further
below, the underlying claim for fraud fails to state a claim. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant Abedian’s demurrer to the third cause of action for conspiracy to
commit fraud is SUSTAINED.
 
F.     
Demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action: Fraud
 
Defendant Abedian asserts that the fourth cause of action for
fraud is not sufficiently alleged.  The Court agrees. 
 
“The
elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c)
intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting
damage.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th
289, 294.)  As noted above, “Fraud allegations ‘involve a serious attack
on character’ and therefore are pleaded with specificity. 
[Citation.]  General and conclusory allegations are insufficient. 
[Citation.]  The particularity requirement demands that a plaintiff plead
facts which ‘‘‘show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations
were tendered.’’’  [Citation.]”  (Cansino, supra, 224
Cal.App.4th at p.1469.)   
 
Here,
the FAC merely alleges that “[i]n or about January, 2023, [Defendants]
represented to Plaintiff that they would pay back any monies and sums and
compensation owed by them to him. Plaintiff detrimentally relied upon said
representation. The true facts were that [Defendants] had no intention of
paying him amounts owed for services rendered. Had Plaintiff known the true
facts, he would not have relied upon said representation by these
Defendants.”  (FAC ¶ 30.) 
 
These
allegations for fraud are deficient. There is no
indication of which Defendant made what specific representation to Plaintiff,
how these misrepresentations were made, where these misrepresentations were
made, or specifically when these misrepresentations were made.  Further,
there is no indication of what specifically was stated to Plaintiff or the
context of such misrepresentation.  Finally, there is no allegation of any
reliance or harm caused by these misrepresentations.  As alleged,
Defendants already owed Plaintiff some unspecified sum of money.  A
representation that Defendants would pay Plaintiff back money already owed
without some action taken by Plaintiff in response to said misrepresentations
reflects a lack of reliance.  Similarly, it is unclear what damages
Plaintiff suffered because of Defendants’ misrepresentation(s) because
Plaintiff was already owed the funds, and Plaintiff does not allege any harm
caused by Plaintiff’s action(s) or inaction(s) in reliance on the unspecified
misrepresentations. 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant Abedian’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action for fraud is
SUSTAINED.
 
G.   
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is
on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully.
(Goodman v. Kennedy, supra, 18 Cal.3d at p.348; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC
(2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.)   
 
Here, there
is no indication that Plaintiff can successfully amend the FAC.  Given that Plaintiff failed to file
an opposition identifying how the FAC could be successfully amended, and the
lack of any substantial changes between the Complaint and FAC, the Court
concludes that there is no reasonable possibility of a successful
amendment.  Accordingly, leave to amend is DENIED. 
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
The Court SUSTAINS Defendant Abedian’s demurrer to the
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint without leave to amend.