 Case Number:  24STCV13872    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2024    Dept:  73 10/25/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
AISPURO, et al. v. BEVERLY COMMUNITY
HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (24STCV13872)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/opposing party:  Stephen
Garcia (Garcia & Artigliere) 
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party: Rima Badawiya (Lewis Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith, LLP)
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL THE
DEPOSITION OF THE PERSON MOST KNOWLEDGEABLE OF BEVERLY COMMUNITY HOSPITAL
ASSOCIATION AND FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS (filed on 09/30/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel the
deposition of Defendant’s PMK with Production of Documents is GRANTED. 
Defendant is ordered to provide for
deposition its PMK with the requested documents within 20 days of the hearing
on this motion. 
Sanctions are denied.
BACKGROUND
 
On June 4,
2024, Plaintiffs Gloria
Aispuro, by and through her successor in interest, Jesse Aispuro; Jesse
Aispuro; Peter Aispuro; Martha Aispuro and Priscilla Ortiz filed this action against Defendant Beverly Community
Hospital Association (“Hospital”) and Does 1-250.
 
The Complaint
alleges the following causes of action:
1.    
Elder Abuse
2.    
Negligence
3.    
Wrongful
Death
 
The Complaint
alleges that Defendant Hospital neglected decedent Gloria Aispuro while she was
a patient in Defendant’s care and she suffered from an avoidable aspiration event when provided solid
foods in direct contravention of physician’s orders. 
 
On September
30, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the instant Motion for an Order to Compel Deposition of Defendant’s
Person Most Knowledgeable (“PMK”) and request for monetary sanctions, arguing:
·      
Plaintiffs move for an order compelling the deposition of the PMK of
Beverly Community Hospital Association to take place within 10 days of this
hearing and on a date selected by Garcia & Artigliere. Plaintiff also seeks
the imposition of sanctions in the amount of $3,860.00
·      
Defendant failed to produce a deponent and failed to produce
documents as requested at its legally noticed deposition as provided in the
Plaintiffs’ lawful notice of deposition, as well as defense counsel’s failure
to collaboratively schedule the deposition
 
Defendant filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
Defendant is not refusing to comply with
discovery. Rather, Defendant is simply asking for some additional time to
identify the potential deponent(s) and to locate the responsive documents.
·      
Defendant Does Not Have A Person Most
Knowledgeable or Custodian of Records to Produce. 
·      
Defendant’s Objections to Plaintiffs’
Notice of Deposition and Request for Production of Documents are Valid.
·      
Defendant Is Obligated to Produce
Documents In Its Possession, Custody Or Control, Not Documents to Which it Has
“Access.”
·      
As Defendant Has Shown “Substantial
Justification” for its Inability to Comply with September 24, 2024 PMK
Deposition Notice, Sanctions Are Not Warranted.
Plaintiffs filed a reply, maintaining
that:
·      
It is true that the Defendant was in
Bankruptcy, which delayed the litigation of this matter, but it should have
been no impediment to the Defendant collecting and safeguarding the documents
they knew would be requested in the litigation.
·      
Defendant presents to the Court with no
documentary support or declaration under penalty of perjury that “Defendant
Beverly Community Hospital Association no longer exists, and therefore has no
officers, directors, managing agents, employees or agents, and only limited
access to documents through management for Adventist Health.” The reality is
that the Secretary of State of California reflects that this is still an active
entity.
·      
To justify its failure to produce a
deponent as requested at deposition, Defendant needed to file a protective
order or motion to quash the deposition notice. Code of Civil Procedure
§§2025.420(a) and 2025.410. Here, the Defendant patently fails to justify its
refusal to produce a deponent as to any topic of inquiry and failure to produce
a single document requested at its lawfully noticed deposition. 
ANALYSIS
A.     Legal
Standard
 
Any
party may obtain discovery, subject to restrictions, by taking the oral
deposition of any person, including any party to the action. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.010.) A party desiring to take an oral deposition shall give a notice in
writing which states the specification of reasonably particularly of any
materials to be produced by the deponent. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.220, subd.
(a)(4).) A properly served deposition notice is effective to require a party to
attend and to testify, as well as to produce documents for inspection and
copying. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).) The party served with a
deposition notice waives any error or irregularity unless that party promptly
serves a written objection at least three calendar days prior to the date for
which the deposition is scheduled. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd.
(a).)  
 
“If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action … without having
served a valid objection … fails to appear for examination, … or to produce for
inspection any document, … described in the deposition notice, the party giving
the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document … described in the
deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)   
 
A
motion brought to compel a deposition “shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition … by a declaration stating that the petitioner has
contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)  
 
B.     Meet and
Confer 
 
Plaintiffs have lodged their counsel’s (Stephen
Garcia’s) declaration in support of their motion. Mr. Garcia’s declaration
states the parties participated in a meet and confer via Zoom on September
24, 2024. (Garcia Decl., ¶ 11.)
Accordingly, the court finds that Plaintiffs have satisfied the meet and confer
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (d)(2).
 

C.    
Discussion
 
Plaintiffs move for an order compelling the deposition of the PMK of
Defendant Beverly Community Hospital Association.
 
On September 9, 2024, Plaintiff
served the notice of deposition of Defendant’s PMK. (Garcia Decl., ¶ 7.) The
notice of deposition compelled the attendance of the Defendant at deposition on
September 24, 2024. (Garcia Decl., ¶ 7.) On September 19, 2024, Defendant served objections to Plaintiff’s
Notice of Deposition. (Garcia Decl., ¶ 8.) Concurrently therewith, defense
counsel wrote stating that “we are working on identifying persons who may able
[sic] to testify on the topics listed in the deposition notice. We do not have
that information at this time but should have it by September 27, 2024.” (Garcia
Decl., ¶
8.)
 
On September 24, 2024, Defendant
failed to appear at its lawfully noticed deposition. (Garcia Decl., ¶ 11.) On
September 24, 2024, the parties met and conferred, and defense counsel requested
a thirty day continuance of the deposition in order to seek a deponent and
collect documents. (Garcia Decl., ¶ 12.) Plaintiffs’ counsel
states the parties were unable to agree on a continuance and as of the filing
of this motion, the Defendant has failed to provide dates for the deposition. (Garcia
Decl., ¶¶ 12-13.)
 
Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel should be denied
because Defendant served valid objections to Plaintiffs’ Notice of Deposition. California
Code of Civil Procedure 2025.450(a) provides that if a party fails to appear at
a deposition noticed and served “without having served a valid objection,”
the party seeking the deposition may move for an order compelling the
attendance and testimony and production of documents or things. (Cal. Code Civ.
Proc. § 2025.450(a) [emphasis added].) Defendant objected to the matters for
examination and requests for document production on the following grounds: vague,
ambiguous, overbroad, and privacy rights. Upon review of Plaintiffs’ requests,
the Court finds the matters for examination and requests for document
production are relevant to the subject matter of the underlying action. In Defendant’s opposition, it contends that Defendant is not refusing to comply with discovery. Rather, Defendant is
simply asking for some additional time to identify the potential deponent(s)
and to locate the responsive documents. However, the Court notes that Defendant
did not file a protective order or motion to quash the deposition notice. 
Under Code Civ. Proc., section
2025.450, when a party fails to appear for a properly noticed deposition, the
Court may order the party to appear for the deposition.
 
Here, the Defendant failed to comply
with a properly noticed deposition for its PMK on the topics in the Plaintiffs’
notice of deposition. Further, the Court did not find that Defendant justified its
objections. (See Coy v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221.)
 
As a result, there are grounds under
Code Civ. Proc., section 2025.450, to order the Defendant to produce its
witness and to produce the requested documents. Therefore, the Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for an order compelling the deposition of the PMK of
Defendant Beverly Community Hospital Association to take place within 20 days
of this hearing.
 
D.    
Sanctions
 
Plaintiffs
request monetary sanctions in the amount of $3,860.00 in connection with this motion. 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure
§2025.450(g)(1) states, “[i]f a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with¿Section
2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the
deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Cal.
Code Civ. Pro. §2025.450(g)(1).) 
 
Although the Court grants Plaintiffs’ motion, the Court finds
that Defendant has shown substantial justification for
its inability to comply with Plaintiffs’ deposition notice. Defendant asserts that
on April 19, 2023, Defendant filed for Chapter 11 Bankruptcy. Defendant further asserts that as a result of the bankruptcy proceedings and
the winddown process that is being overseen by the Bankruptcy Trustee, Defendant Beverly Hospital’s assets were sold, including the
hospital located at 309 West Beverly Boulevard, Montebello, California. The
acquiring company, Adventist Health, took possession of all documents which
were relevant to the past and current patients of the hospital, including the
documents relevant to Gloria Aispuro and her care and treatment at Beverly
Hospital from July 25, 2022 to October 8, 2022. Thus, Defendant contends for
the purposes of the subject Deposition Notice, it has no officers, directors,
managing agents, employees or agents, and only limited access to documents
through management for Adventist Health. Defendant’s counsel states they have
been working diligently with members of the Beverly Hospital bankruptcy estate
and management at Adventist Health to identify potential deponents for the PMK
Deposition and to obtain the requested documents. (Aziz Decl., ¶ 6.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds Defendant
has shown substantial justification for its inability
to comply with Plaintiffs’ deposition notice. Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ request for monetary sanctions is DENIED.
 
DISPOSITION
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel the deposition of Defendant’s
PMK with Production of Documents is GRANTED. 
Defendant is ordered to provide for deposition its PMK with
the requested documents within 20 days of the hearing on this motion. 
Sanctions are denied.