 Case Number:  21STCV13784    Hearing Date:   March 19, 2024    Dept:  27 Complaint Filed:          4/12/21 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
Hon. Lee S. Arian¿¿¿¿¿ 
Department 27¿¿¿¿¿ 
Tentative Ruling¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
Hearing Date:                3/19/2024 at 1:30 p.m.¿¿¿¿¿ 
Case No./Name:          21STCV13784 CAROL SORRENTI vs COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES, et al.
Motion:                              MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
Moving Party:                 Defendants Jennifer Borow and Peppertree Ranch
Management
Responding Party:      Plaintiff 
Notice:                                Sufficient¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
Ruling:                               MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT IS DENIED. 
 
Background
 
On May 13, 2020, Plaintiff Carol Sorrenti
tripped on an exposed tree root on a sidewalk adjacent to the property at 21031
Chatsworth Street, Chatsworth, California ("Property"). This Property
comprises residential units and a commercial horse boarding business,
Peppertree Ranch. The exposure of the tree root occurred after Los Angeles
County removed the tree from the sidewalk bordering the Property. At the time
of the incident, Plaintiff, a resident of the Property, tripped on the tree
root while en route to the mailbox. The present motion for summary judgment was
initiated by Jennifer Borow, Steve Borow, Hughes Pittario Trust, and Peppertree
Ranch Management. However, Hughes Pittario Trust and Steve Borow have been
dismissed, leaving Jennifer Borow and Peppertree Ranch Management as the sole
remaining moving parties. Defendants argue that Plaintiff cannot establish duty
and breach as Jennifer Borow and Peppertree Ranch Management were not the
Property's owners or managers at the time of the fall, as ownership was
transferred to Jennifer Borow after the fall, on July 17, 2020. They further
argue that the dangerous condition was created by the County of Los Angeles. In
response, Plaintiff contends that Defendants have not met their initial burden
of proof due to the limited evidence provided. Furthermore, Plaintiff maintains
that Jennifer Borow and Peppertree Ranch Management had control over the
Property, as they had been leasing the Property’s residential units since 2015
and exercising significant control over the sidewalks adjacent to the Property.
 
Legal Standard 
 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment
or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through
the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite its allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve its dispute.” Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843. “Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if
all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the
evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there
is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.¿¿ 
¿ 
A “defendant moving for summary judgment must
show the plaintiff’s causes of action have¿no merit.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.¿(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 849, emphasis added.)
In other words, summary judgment is not to be granted simply because a case is
“weak” or because a “weak” showing was made in opposition. (Hagen v.
Hickenbottom¿(1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 168, 187-188, superseded by statute on
another point as recognized in¿Rice v. Clark¿(2002) 28
Cal.4th 89, 96;¿Mamou v. Trendwest Resorts, Inc.¿(2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 589, 722. [“to avoid summary judgment a
showing need not be strong; it need only be sufficient to raise a triable issue
of fact.”].)¿ 
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.” Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal. App.
4th 1510, 1519. A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication
“has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if
the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . .
cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of
action.” CCP § 437c(p)(2). “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or
more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” CCP
§ 437c(p)(2).  

Evidentiary Ruling
 
The Court
makes the following evidentiary ruling material to its decision on the present
motion: Plaintiff's Objection no. 4 is overruled.  It deems it unnecessary to rule on other
objections raised.  CCP § 437c(q).
 
Sidewalk Accident Decisions Doctrine
 
Defendant relies on the “Sidewalk
Accident Decisions” doctrine, which governs property adjacent to a sidewalk. The doctrine is based
on case law explaining that sidewalks are public and thus no duty is owed to
users of the sidewalk unless the abutting property owner created the hazardous
condition. Streets and Highways Code §5610 provides that owners of lots
fronting on a public street shall maintain any sidewalk in a condition that
will not endanger persons and not interfere with the public convenience in the use
of those works.  Pursuant to Jones v. Deeter (1984) 152 Cal.App.3d
798, 803, the duty imposed by this ordinance is owed to the city and not to
persons using the sidewalk. “Under section 5610 the abutting owner bears the
duty to repair defects in the sidewalk, regardless of whether he has created these
defects. It was felt, however, that it would be unfair for such an owner to be
held liable to travelers injured as a result of sidewalk defects which were not
of the owner’s making. Thus, the ‘Sidewalk Accident Decisions’ doctrine arose;
this doctrine holds that the abutting property owner is not liable in tort to
travelers injured on the sidewalk unless the owner somehow creates the
injurious sidewalk condition.” (Deeter, 152 Cal.App.3d at 803.)  
 
 
While generally a landowner is not liable for
harm resulting from conditions or activities outside his property, on adjoining
land or on the highway, street, or sidewalk, the landowner may be liable if the
landowner created the defect or exercised dominion or control over the
adjoining land (Jordan v. City of Sacramento (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
1487, 1490-1491; Corcoran v. San Mateo (1953) 122 Cal.App.2d 355, 359; Schaefer
v. Lenahan (1944) 63 Cal.App.2d 324, 326.) In settings where the abutting owners exercised control
over the property such as by planting trees or habitually trimming or caring
for them, these abutting owners have the duty to maintain the trees in a safe
condition to make sure the roots do not cause a tripping hazard. (Alcaraz v.
Vece, 14 Cal.4th at 1162.)
 
Furthermore, “a defendant need not
own, possess and control property in order to be held liable; control alone is
sufficient.” (Id.) A person is required to maintain “land in their
possession and control in a reasonably safe condition.” (Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Center (1993) 6 Cal.4th 666, 674.)  In Alcaraz, the court
held that because the defendant maintained the lawn surrounding the meter box,
a reasonable trier of fact could infer that the defendant exercised control
over that strip of land and had a duty to warn others of the hazardous
condition of the meter box.  (Alcaraz v. Vece, 14 Cal.4th at 1162.)
  
Defendant’s Initial Burden
 
Defendants argue that Jennifer Borow and Pepper Ranch Management
did not own or manage the property at the time of the incident, and therefore they
did not owe plaintiff any duty of care. 
They also argue that because Defendant County removed the tree leaving
the exposed tree root, Defendant County, not them, did not breach any duty. 
 
Defendants attempt to establish that Defendant Jennifer Borow  was not the owner of the property at the time
of the incident. Defendants point to Jennifer Borow’s deposition where she
states the property belonged to her father and was only conveyed to her in July
2020. (Borrow Depo. 11:21-14:19.) However, in another piece of evidence
introduced by Defendants, Plaintiff Carol Sorrenti stated that Jennifer Borrow
was the owner of the property (Sorrenti Depo. 20:17-19.) Despite these
conflicting statements, Defendants failed to provide any document, such as a
deed or any ownership-related document, to resolve this discrepancy.
 
Defendant then contends that Peppertree Ranch
Management was not the manager of the property at the time of the incident.
Defendant refers to a portion of Plaintiff’s deposition where Plaintiff
identified the manager as Melanie Thomas (Sorrenti Depo. 21:7). However, this
does not address Ms. Thomas’ role, nor establish that Peppertree Ranch Management
was not the manager.  It is typical for a
controlling entity to appoint an employee to manage its day-to-day operations.  In a motion for summary judgment, the Court
does not make inferences in favor of the moving party.  
 
Furthermore, Defendant Borow stated that she
is responsible for managing the website for Peppertree Ranch located on the
property (Borrow Decl. 32:16-17). She further testified that her parents ran
the ranch since the 1980s (Borrow Dep. 41:12-13) and that after her father's
death in February 2020, the property was conveyed to her in July 2020 (Borrow
Depo. 11:21-14:19). This raises questions about who or what entity was
controlling the property at the time of the incident after her father passed
but before it was officially conveyed to her. A reasonable trier of fact could
infer that Ms. Borow was in control of the property during this interim period,
as the property was already in the process of being conveyed to her following
her father's passing. It is Defendants’ burden to make a prima facie
showing that no issues triable fact exists, and Defendants have not done so.  
 
Furthermore, Defendants’ separate statement
lists only six undisputed material facts, none of which address who managed the
exposed tree root or the surrounding area, whether any warnings were issued, or
whether any preventative measures, such as a barrier, or covers were placed on
the tree root before the incident occurred. Again, it is Defendants’
responsibility to provide prima facie evidence demonstrating they did
not control the property at the time of the incident or, if they did, they did
not breach their duty by maintaining the area in a reasonably safe manner.
Defendants failed to do so.
 
To successfully move for summary judgment in
the present case, Defendants need to demonstrate one of three points: 1) they
neither owned nor controlled the property abutting the sidewalk; 2) in
maintaining the property, they did not extend their control to the sidewalk
where the exposed root is located; or 3) even if they did extend their control,
they maintained the area in a safe manner. Defendants have provided limited
evidence and failed to meet their initial burden regarding the first point, and
no undisputed material facts were provided in support of the second and third
points.  
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is DENIED.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to
the court at¿sscdept27@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date
and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the
parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral
argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the
hearing to argue.¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿¿ 
If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing,
the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the
order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the
Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 