  Case Number:  23PSCV00357    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Keyrin
Mariza Pocasangre Munoz v. Pama Management Co., et al. 
Defendant
Group XII Properties, LP’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff Keyrin Mariza Pocasangre
Munoz to Attend and to Produce All Responsive Documents at Her Deposition 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Group XII Properties, LLC’s motion.
Plaintiff must appear for deposition within 30 days of this order, and bring
all documents specified in the amended notice of deposition served on January
19, 2024.
The Court GRANTS Defendant Group XII Properties, LLC’s request for
monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $1,428.65. Plaintiff Keyrin Mariza
Pocasangre Munoz and Plaintiff’s counsel of record must pay said monetary
sanctions to counsel for Defendant Group XII Properties, LLC within 20 days of
the Court’s order.
              Defendant Group XII Properties, LLC is
ordered to give notice of the Court’s rulings within five calendar days of this
order. 
BACKGROUND 
This
is a personal injury case. On February 6, 2023, plaintiff Keyrin Mariza
Pocasangre Munoz (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Pama Management Co., Group XII Properties LP (Group XII), and
Does 1 to 50, alleging causes of action for general negligence and premises
liability. On February 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed a doe amendment, naming
Regency Management, Inc. as a defendant. 
On May 20, 2024, Group XII moved to compel Plaintiff’s deposition
and to produce responsive documents. On July 17, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the
motion. On July 24, 2024, Group XII replied. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or
an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person
designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (a).) 
DISCUSSION 
            Meet and Confer 
            Per Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision
(b), Group XII was required to meet and confer with Plaintiff or inquire about
the nonappearance. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) The Court finds
Defendant’s meet-and-confer efforts sufficient, although the Court requests
parties to meet and confer in person, by telephone, or videoconference, as the
Court finds those methods more effective than email. (See Sorkin Decl., Ex. H.) 
            Summary of Arguments 
            Group XII seeks to compel the deposition of Plaintiff on
the grounds that Plaintiff’s objection to the deposition on February 22, 2024
was invalid due to the parties’ prior agreement for that date, and that Plaintiff’s
failure to attend the deposition or produce the requested documents was
therefore unjustified. Group XII contends Plaintiff also refused to provide
alternative dates after serving the objection. 
            In opposition, Plaintiff contends the objection was
timely served and was valid due to Plaintiff’s unexpected unavailability, but
that Plaintiff also offered to meet and confer regarding other possible dates.
Plaintiff contends Group XII’s meet-and-confer letter provided Plaintiff only
four days to provide alternate dates and did not express a meaningful
willingness to meet and confer.[1] 
            In reply, Group XII reiterates that plaintiff’s objection
was improper as the parties agreed to the deposition date and adds that Plaintiff’s
counsel never provided alternative dates. 
Analysis 
            The Court finds
Group XII’s motion to be well taken. Group XII originally served Plaintiff with
a notice of deposition on December 14, 2023, for a deposition to be held on
January 15, 2024. (Sorkin Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) On January 12, 2024, Plaintiff
requested a new deposition date due to a calendaring error. (Sorkin Decl., ¶
4.) The parties agreed on February 22, 2024, and Group XII subsequently served
an amended deposition notice for that date on January 19, 2024. (Sorkin Decl.,
¶¶ 5-8, Exs. B-F.) On February 14, 2024, Plaintiff objected to the deposition
on the grounds that Plaintiff was no longer available to attend. (Sorkin Decl.,
¶ 10, Ex. G.) Group XII attempted to obtain new dates from Plaintiff before
bringing this motion, but to no avail. (See Sorkin Decl., ¶¶ 11-12, Exs. H-I.)
Group XII took a certificate of non-appearance. (Sorkin Decl., Ex. I.) 
The Court
finds Plaintiff’s objection was not valid. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd.
(b).) Plaintiff provided no evidence or explanation regarding the reason for
Plaintiff’s purportedly unexpected unavailability. (See Sorkin Decl., Ex. G;
Moreno Decl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff provided no evidence that the amended deposition
notice failed to comply with Article 2 (commencing with Section 2025.210 of the
Code of Civil Procedure). (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410, subd. (a).) Plaintiff
also provided no evidence of having offered any alternative dates for a
continued deposition in response to Group XII’s meet-and-confer letter. (See
Moreno Decl., ¶ 9.) These things undermine the validity of Plaintiff’s
objection. Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Group XII’s motion. 
With
respect to monetary sanctions, the Court GRANTS Group XII’s request for
monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel of record in the
reduced amount of $1,428.65, comprised of 4.0 hours preparing the motion and reply
and appearing at the hearing on the motion, multiplied by the hourly rate of $195.00,
plus the $60.00 motion filing fee and the $588.65 certificate of non-appearance
fee. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Defendant Group XII Properties, LLC’s motion.
Plaintiff must appear for deposition within 30 days of this order, and bring
all documents specified in the amended notice of deposition served on January
19, 2024.
The Court GRANTS Defendant Group XII Properties, LLC’s request for
monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $1,428.65. Plaintiff Keyrin Mariza
Pocasangre Munoz and Plaintiff’s counsel of record must pay said monetary
sanctions to counsel for Defendant Group XII Properties, LLC within 20 days of
the Court’s order.
              Defendant Group XII Properties, LLC is
ordered to give notice of the Court’s rulings within five calendar days of this
order.


