 Case Number:  23PSCV00534    Hearing Date:   July 30, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Kyleen
Pray v. BMW of North America, LLC, et al. 
Defendant
BMW of North America, LLC’s Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories,
Set One, and Requests for Production of Documents, Set One 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS Defendant BMW of North America, LLC’s motion as
to Form Interrogatories, Set One. Plaintiff Kyleen Pray must provide verified
responses, without objection, to BMW’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, within 20
days of the Court’s order.
The Court will GRANT Defendant BMW of North America, LLC’s motion
to compel responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One on the
condition that Defendant BMW of North America, LLC pays the separate motion
filing fee, after which Plaintiff Kyleen Pray must provide verified,
code-compliant responses, without objection, and produce responsive documents, within
20 days of the Court’s order. If Defendant BMW of North America, LLC fails to
pay the separate motion filing fee within five days of the Court’s order, the
motion will be denied without prejudice.
The Court GRANTS Defendant BMW of North America, LLC’s request for
monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $830.00. Plaintiff Kyleen Pray and
Plaintiff’s counsel of record must pay said monetary sanctions to counsel for
Defendant BMW of North America, LLC within 20 days of the Court’s order.
Defendant BMW of North America, LLC is ordered to give notice of
the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.
BACKGROUND 
This is a personal injury and products liability case. On February
23, 2023, plaintiff Kyleen Pray (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants
BMW of North America, LLC, a Delaware Limited Liability Company (BMW), Penske
Motor Group, LLC, a California Limited Liability Company, dba BMW of Ontario,
Taylor Co Automotive, a California Corporation, Pedro Juan Pedro, and Does 1 to
160, alleging causes of action for motor vehicle, general negligence, and
products liability. 
On May 21, 2024, BMW moved to compel responses to written
discovery requests. The motion is unopposed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
When a party fails to serve a timely response
to interrogatories, the party propounding the interrogatories may move for an
order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) A party
who fails to provide a timely response waives any objection, including one
based on privilege or work product. (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) “The
court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (c).)
 
When a party fails to serve a timely response
to an inspection demand, the party making the demand may move for an order
compelling a response to the inspection demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,
subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives any
objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.300, subd. (a).) “[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction… against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” (Id., § 2031.300, subd. (c).) 
DISCUSSION 
Meet and Confer 
Although meeting and conferring is not required before bringing
motions to compel initial responses, (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v.
Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404), the Court notes that BMW indicates having attempted to meet and confer,
albeit by email only, before bringing this motion, (Stoltz Decl., ¶¶ 6-8). The
Court requests that any such future meet-and-confer efforts be conducted by
telephone, videoconference, or in person before resorting to email, as the
Court finds these methods more effective than email. 
            Analysis 
BMW
indicates that it served Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for
Production of Documents, Set One, on Plaintiff on January 26, 2024. (Stoltz
Decl., ¶¶ 3-4, Exs. A-B.) Despite having given Plaintiff’s counsel additional
time to respond and having otherwise attempted to meet and confer before
bringing this motion, BMW has not received any responses to this written
discovery. (Stoltz Decl., ¶¶ 6-10.) The Court finds BMW’s motion to be well
taken. 
However,
the Court also notes that BMW combined two sets of discovery into one motion
when each set of discovery should have been addressed in a separate motion with
separate filing fees. (See Govt. Code, § 70617, subds. (a), (f); Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.010 et seq., 2031.010, et seq.) Accordingly, the Court will
GRANT BMW’s motion as to Form Interrogatories, Set One, and will conditionally GRANT
BMW’s motion as to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, provided BMW
pays the separate motion filing fee within five days of the Court’s ruling.
Otherwise, the motion will be denied without prejudice as to those discovery
requests. 
With
respect to monetary sanctions, the Court GRANTS BMW’s request for monetary
sanctions against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel of record in the reduced
amount of $830.00, comprised of 2.0 hours preparing the motion and appearing at
the hearing on the motion, multiplied by the hourly rate of $385.00, plus the
$60.00 motion filing fee. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Defendant BMW of North America, LLC’s motion as
to Form Interrogatories, Set One. Plaintiff Kyleen Pray must provide verified
responses, without objection, to BMW’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, within 20
days of the Court’s order.
The Court will GRANT Defendant BMW of North America, LLC’s motion
to compel responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One on the
condition that Defendant BMW of North America, LLC pays the separate motion
filing fee, after which Plaintiff Kyleen Pray must provide verified,
code-compliant responses, without objection, and produce responsive documents, within
20 days of the Court’s order. If Defendant BMW of North America, LLC fails to
pay the separate motion filing fee within five days of the Court’s order, the
motion will be denied without prejudice.
The Court GRANTS Defendant BMW of North America, LLC’s request for
monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $830.00. Plaintiff Kyleen Pray and
Plaintiff’s counsel of record must pay said monetary sanctions to counsel for
Defendant BMW of North America, LLC within 20 days of the Court’s order.
Defendant BMW of North America, LLC is ordered to give notice of
the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.