  Case Number:  18STCV04159    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  NWI HELEN BARRERA,
et al. v. LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT, et al.
 
motion to tax costs
 
Date of Hearing:        October
30, 2024                              Trial
Date:       N/A
Department:              I                                                           Case No.:        18STCV04159
 
BACKGROUND
 
Plaintiff R.L. alleges they were sexually
assaulted and abused by third party co-Defendant Arlan Wesley Harrell while
R.L. was attending a school field trip during their enrollment as a
kindergarten student at Cowan Avenue Elementary School during the 2016-2017
school year. Plaintiff R.L. further alleges Defendants LAUSD and Da Sylveira
failed to properly report, investigate, reprimand, discipline or ban Harrell
and failed to notify the parents of R.L. 
 
On March 27, 2024, the jury concluded
deliberation and entered a verdict in favor of minor Plaintiff RL, by and
through his guardian ad litem, Helen Barrera. The
jury also found Principal Da Sylveira not liable. 
 
discussion
 
I.                   
PLAINTIFF HELEN BARRERA’S MOTION TO
STRIKE/TAX COSTS
 
Plaintiff moves to strike/tax the
Memorandum of Costs filed by Defendant Da Sylveira on the grounds the costs
must be apportioned pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1032(4) and in
the instant matter, all of the costs asserted by Defendant Da Sylveira were
costs paid by LAUSD as LAUSD’s conduct was the basis for claims against
Defendant De Sylveira.[1] 
 
In civil cases, the prevailing party is
entitled to recover costs as a matter of right. (CCP § 1032(b).) Code of Civil
Procedure section 1033.5(a) sets forth the items allowable as costs while
subdivision (b) details the items that are not allowable as costs. Costs that
are not expressly permitted under subdivision (a), but are not expressly denied
under subdivision (b), may still be recovered in a court's discretion. (Science
Applications Int'l Corp. v. Superior Court (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1095,
1103.) All costs must be “reasonably necessary to the conduct of the
litigation” and “reasonable in amount.” (CCP § 1033.5(c)(2), (3).) The court
may exercise its discretion to apportion costs between the parties on the same
or adverse sides pursuant to rules adopted under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1034. (CCP § 1032(a)(4).)
 
Plaintiff does not dispute that Defendant
Da Sylveira is to be considered a prevailing party for the present litigation.
However, Plaintiff contends Defendant Da Sylveira cannot demonstrate that any portion
of the costs would not have occurred but for him being a party to the
litigation. Specifically, Defendant Da Sylveira was not a party to the original
complaint. Due to LAUSD’s insistence that an employee of LAUSD needed to be
added to the litigation to incorporate Government Code section 815.2,
Plaintiffs named Defendant Da Sylveira. Moreover, adding Defendant Da Sylveira did
nothing to change the scope of the litigation, the discovery, the motion
practice or the trial. Plaintiff insists Defendant Da Sylveira cannot identify
a single recoverable cost which was incurred due to his participation in the
litigation that would not have occurred had Defendant Da Sylveira simply been a
non-party agent of Defendant LAUSD. 
 
Both parties cite to Charton v.
Harkey (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 730. In Charton, the court stated “[w]hether
to award costs that were incurred by both the prevailing party and the
nonprevailing party, and were reasonably necessary to the conduct of the
litigation for both the prevailing and nonprevailing party, is left to the
trial court's sound discretion based on the totality of the circumstances.
[Citation]. In allocating costs between jointly represented parties, however,
the trial court may not make an across-the-board reduction based on the number of
jointly represented parties because such an allocation fails to consider the
necessity or reasonableness of the costs as required by section 1033.5,
subdivision (c). [Citation.] Instead, when allocating costs between jointly
represented parties, the court must examine the reason each cost was incurred,
whether the cost was reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation on
behalf of the prevailing party, and the reasonableness of the cost. [Citation].
(Charton v. Harkey (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 730, 744-745.)
 
In these circumstances, the court finds it
appropriate to apportion the costs between LAUSD and Da Sylveira. Upon review
of the complaint, the allegations against Defendant Da Sylveira made him an
integral part of Plaintiff’s lawsuit. Although Plaintiff believes adding Defendant
Da Sylveira individually as a party did nothing to change the scope of the
litigation, the costs of litigation generally were reasonably necessary to Da
Sylveira’s defense. 
 
Specific Costs
 
Turning to the specific costs, Plaintiff
seeks to strike the $3,553.30 in motion and filing fees. Plaintiff argues given
Defendant Da Sylveira's claim of exemption, there is no evidence that any
filing or motion fees were ever paid by Defendant Da Sylveira. Instead, it
appears Defendant Da Sylveira is attempting to recover fees incurred through
Defendants' counsel's use of a third-party filing company, First Legal Network,
LLC; however, such fees are not proper for section 1 of the memorandum of cost.
Even so, Plaintiff contends Defendant Da Sylveira cannot demonstrate that any
of the fees were exclusive to Defendant Da Sylveira are sought. For example,
his Memorandum of Costs seek reimbursement for fees incurred when he was not
even a named Defendant. 
 
The court finds Plaintiff placing third
party filing fees in section 1 rather 14 not grounds to strike costs. The court
agrees, however, filing service fees incurred before Defendant Da Sylveira not
actually incurred or reasonably necessary to his defense. The First Amended
Complaint naming Defendant Da Sylveira was filed February 13, 2019 and
Defendant Da Sylveira did not file his Answer until May 10, 2019. Accordingly,
the (1) $83.45 for fees incurred on January 25, 2019; (2) $31.95 for fees
incurred on March 4, 2019; and (3) 31.95 for fees incurred on April 29, 2019.
 
Plaintiff has not shown the remainder of
the costs were improper, unreasonable or unnecessary. 
 
Accordingly, the court STRIKES $147.34
from Item 1. 
 
Next, Plaintiff seeks to tax Defendant’s
claim for $1,776.14 in jury fees. Plaintiff argues the jury fees were split
50/50 between Plaintiffs and Defendants. As such, Defendants would have
incurred the exact same amount of fees if there was 1 defendant or 10.
Furthermore, Defendant Da Sylveira cannot establish that any jury fees were
paid on his behalf and not on behalf of LAUSD. 
 
Both parties agree the jury fees were
split 50/50 between Plaintiffs and Defendants. As noted by the court in Charton,
“[a]ll costs awarded to a prevailing party must be (1) incurred by that party,
whether or not paid; (2) ‘reasonably necessary to the conduct of the litigation
rather than merely convenient or beneficial to its preparation’; and (3)
reasonable in amount.” (Charton, supra, 247 Cal.App.4th at p.
739.) As such, whether or not LAUSD paid the fee is not to the point. However,
Defendant only provides an invoice for daily jury fees totaling $1,605.92. 
 
Accordingly, the court STRIKES $170.22
from Item 2. 
 
Next, Plaintiff seeks to strike $25,761.49
in deposition costs. Plaintiff argues Defendant Da Sylveira cannot demonstrate
that he incurred any fees related to deposition costs as Defendant Da Sylveira
was represented by the same counsel as LAUSD. Each deposition would have
occurred whether or not Defendant Da Sylveira was a party to the litigation or
simply a non-party witness in the litigation. Plaintiff also argues it is
noteworthy that Defendant Da Sylveira did not seek to have a single deposition
taken in the present litigation. Defendant LAUSD, without Defendant Da
Sylveira, set the following depositions: 1) Anthony Loupe; 2) Helen Barrera; 3)
R.L; 4) Howard Friedman; 5) Jorien Campbell; 6) Christopher Meyers; 7) James
Mills; and 8) John Semillo.
 
Plaintiffs do not make a prima facie
showing that the depositions were not necessary to the defense of Da Sylveira. Plaintiffs
generally argue whether or not Da Sylveira was a party to the action, the
depositions would have occurred. However, Plaintiffs do not provide how they
only aided in LAUSD’s defense and not Da Sylveira’s. Moreover, Plaintiff argues
LAUSD was the sole Defendant who sought the deposition notices. However, this
is not enough to show that the depositions were only necessary for LAUSD’s defense.
Deposition Notices will not always contain each party’s name and common
practice is to list one of the parties. 
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Plaintiff’s
request to strike $25,761.49 in deposition costs. 
 
Lastly, Plaintiff seeks to strike
Defendant Da Sylveira’s claim for $13,791.69 in court reporter fees. Plaintiff
makes the same arguments as above in regard to the deposition costs. Again,
Plaintiff erroneously shifts the burden to Defendant when Plaintiff has failed
to introduce evidence to support their claim that the costs were not reasonably
necessary to carry out litigation on behalf of Defendant Da Sylveira. (See Charton,
supra, 247 Cal.App.4th at p. 745.) 
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES
Plaintiff’s request to strike $13,791.69 in deposition costs. 
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff Helen
Barrera’s Motion to Strike/Tax Costs is GRANTED, in part. The court STRIKES
$317.46. 
 
II.                 
DEFENDANTS LOS ANGELES UNIFIED SCHOOL
DISTRICT AND RICHARD DA SYLVEIRA’S MOTION TO STRIKE, OR IN TH EALTNERATIVE, TAX
COSTS
 
Defendants Los Angeles Unified School
District and Richard Da Sylveira moves to strike, or in the alternative, tax
certain costs sought by Plaintiffs in the Memorandum of Costs. 
 
Defendants first make the motion on
similar grounds that only Plaintiff Helen Barrera, as guardian ad litem for
minor R.L. is identified as the prevailing party. As such, Plaintiff Helen
cannot establish that her claimed costs were necessary and separate from those
of non-prevailing plaintiffs. However, as noted above, the court will not grant
the motion on this basis alone. As the Charton Court explained, “when
allocating costs between jointly represented parties, the court must examine
the reason each cost was incurred, whether the cost was reasonably necessary to
the conduct of the litigation on behalf of the prevailing party, and the
reasonableness of the cost.” (Charton, supra, 247 Cal.App.4th at
p. 745.) 
 
Next, Defendants argue Plaintiff’s
claimed filing fees in the amount of $1,360.90 should be stricken on the
grounds the request is excessive and unsupported. The Memorandum of Costs
identifies the filing fees as “Complaint; Various Motions; Ex-Parties”. However,
there is no requirement that copies of bills, invoices, statements, or any
other such documents be attached to the memorandum.” (Jones v. Dumrichob
(1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1258, 126.) Regardless, Plaintiff has attached the
invoices to in their Reply. Looking at the totality of circumstances, it
appears the filing fees were reasonably incurred and necessary to the conduct
of Plaintiff Helen Barrera as guardian ad litem. 
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES
Defendants’ request to strike $1,360.90 Item 1. 
 
Defendants move to tax Plaintiff’s
claimed jury fees for $2,306.64 because jury fees were split equally between
the parties. Defendants’ invoices indicate that they paid a total of $1,776.14
in jury fees. Accordingly, since the parties should have an equal amount, Defendants
request that Plaintiff’s jury fees be reduced to match unless proof can be
provided for the discrepancy in total. 
 
Plaintiffs provide Exhibit 2, with
credit card statement reflecting jury fees charges. Accordingly, the court
DENIES Defendants’ request to strike Item 2. 
 
Next, Defendants move to strike the $22,176.57
in deposition costs because Plaintiff’s counsel routinely opted to take
depositions in person and travel from Sacramento to Los Angeles despite video
conference being available. Moreover, during litigation, Plaintiff took the
depositions of Jennifer Samuelson, RaDaniel McCoy and Karen Long yet none of
these witnesses were called at trial. Lastly, Plaintiff also seeks
“miscellaneous Court Reporter fees” in the amount of $2,450.00. Defendants have
no way to evaluate what this claimed cost is or how it is associated with the
conducting of necessary depositions.
 
First, Defendants have not shown that
taking in person depositions was unreasonable or unnecessary or that Plaintiff
is seeking travel related costs for the in-person depositions. Plaintiff RL
incurred costs of $5,542.12 for depositions which were set by Defendants
through First Legal. (Dryer Decl. Exh 3.) Plaintiff RL incurred costs of
$14,184.45 for depositions which were set by Plaintiff RL through Esquire
Deposition Solutions. (Dryer Decl. Exh 4.) Plaintiff RL incurred costs of
$2,450.00 for depositions miscellaneous deposition costs including $550.00 in
costs to accommodate Defendants remote appearances at depositions. (Dryer Decl.
Exh. 5.) However, the court agrees Plaintiff has not set forth evidence of the
$1,900.00 in cancellation fees were actually incurred due to Defendants.
Moreover, the fact that some witnesses were not ultimately called trial does
not mean such depositions were not necessary to aid in their litigation. 
 
Accordingly, the court STRIKES $1,900.00
from Item 4. 
 
Next, Defendants seek to strike
Plaintiff’s request for $5,442.46 in service of process fees. Defendants argue Attachment
5d indicates that she paid Service of Process fees to serve Philip T. Harrell
in the amount of $959.33, Rachetta Harrell in the amount of $830.98, Arianne
Ortiz in the amount of $3,005.98 and for “Miscellaneous service of process
fees” in the amount of $962.46. However, Philip T. Harrell and Rachetta Harrell
were not defendants in this case, nor were they deposed. Moreover, Plaintiff
provides no explanation or supporting documentation as to why Arianne Ortiz’s service
of process required $3,005.98 to effectuate. Finally, Defendants have no way to
evaluate the $962.46 for “miscellaneous service of process fees.” 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendants
disputed that Defendant Arlan Wesley Harrell was even at the Kidspace Museum on
the date of the incident despite his conviction. Therefore, it was necessary
for Plaintiff RL to obtain testimony that he was in fact on the trip. Plaintiff
made numerous attempts to depose Arlan’s parents, who identified to the FBI
that Arlan had attended the trips. When that failed to occur, Plaintiff sought
to depose Arlan’s sister’s deposition. When trial approached, she wished not to
participate and thus forcing Plaintiff to make an extensive effort to serve her
with a trial subpoena in order to have her deposition testimony be read as an
unavailable witness. (See Dyer Decl. Exh. 6.) Plaintiff also provides the
miscellaneous charges $962.46 were further attempts for service of process
during trial. (See Dyer Decl. Exh. 7.) 
 
The court agrees Plaintiff has not shown
the $2,043.92 in surveillance, process and additional attempts of process were
reasonably incurred when they could, and did, read her deposition at trial.
Accordingly, the court STRIKES $2,043.92. 
 
Next, Defendants argue Plaintiff
improperly seeks witness fees. Plaintiff agrees to remove these costs.
Accordingly, the court STRIKES $675.00 in witness fees. 
 
Lastly, Defendants seek to strike and/or
tax Plaintiff’s request for $19,691.04 in court reporter fees on the grounds Plaintiff’s
court reporter fees should be reduced to match up with their request for $13,791.69
in court reporter fees unless they provide proof. In opposition, Plaintiff
provides Court Reporters invoices (Dyer Decl., Exh. 8) but notes one of them
was accidently duplicated. As such, Plaintiff notes it is seeking $17,173.54 in
court reporter charges which were paid by Plaintiff RL. 
 
The court STRIKES the $2,517.50
duplicate invoice. 
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants Los
Angele Unified School District and Richard Da Sylveira’s Motion to Strike, or
in the Alternative, Tax costs is GRANTED, in part. The court STRIKES $7,136.42
 


