  Case Number:  22STCV26819    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MAKSYMILIAN NAPOROWSKI
  
        
  vs.
 
ROYAL ROAD
  ENTERTAINMENT, 
LLC, et al.

  


 Case
  No.:  22STCV26819
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: October 23, 2023



 
 
Plaintiff is to contact Department 17 to schedule an IDC.
 
            On
8/18/2022, Plaintiff Maksymilian Naporowski (Plaintiff) filed suit against
Defendant Royal Road Entertainment, LLC and Filip Jan Rymsza (Defendant),
alleging breach of a verbal agreement. 
 
            Now,
Plaintiff moves to compel further responds from Defendant Filip Jan Rymsza to
his Form Interrogatories (Set One) and Demands for Production (Set One).
Plaintiff also moves to compel further responses from Defendant Royal Road
Entertainment, LLC to his Demands for Production (Set One). 
 
This Court requires that parties participate in an
informal discovery conference (IDC) before discovery motions can be heard on
the merits.
 
            Plaintiff is to contact Department
17 to schedule an IDC.         
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  October   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 