 Case Number:  23STCV08827    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



JORGE RIEGOS CASTILLO aka JORGE RIOS 
  
        
  vs.
 
LAZY DOG
  RESTAURANTS, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV08827 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: October 23, 2023



 
 
Defendant’s motion is GRANTED. This proceeding is stayed
pending the completion of arbitration. 
 
            On
4/20/2023, Plaintiff Jorge Riegos Castillo aka Jorge Rios (Plaintiff) filed
suit against Lazy Dog Restaurant, LLC dba Lazy Dog Restaurant and Bar, alleging:
(1) failure to pay wages; (2) failure to pay minimum wages; (3) failure to pay
overtime; (4) failure to provide meal and rest periods; (5) failure to provide
itemized wage statements; (6) waiting time penalties; (7) failure to indemnify;
(8) unfair competition; and (9) failure to permit inspection of personnel and
payroll records. 
 
            Now,
Defendant moves to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Legal
Standard 
 
Where the Court has determined that an agreement to
arbitrate a controversy exists, the Court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy …unless it determines that…  grounds exist for rescission of the
agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) Among the grounds which can support
rescission are fraud, duress, and unconscionability. (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 239.) The
Court may also decline to compel arbitration wherein there is possibility of
conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2 (c).) 
 
Discussion

 
I.                  
Defendants’ Burden 
 
The party moving to compel arbitration “bears the burden
of proving [the] existence [of an arbitration agreement] by a preponderance of
the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great
Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The moving party
also bears the burden of demonstrating that the claims fall within the scope of
the arbitration agreement. (Omar v.
Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)
 
A.    Existing Agreement
 
Defendant submitted evidence of an arbitration agreement
that was electronically signed by Plaintiff on 4/4/2021 at 12:06 am. (Reed
Decl., Exh. 1.) 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff claims that
he did not sign the agreement, citing in support that: (1) the Agreement was
submitted by an employee hired seven years after Plaintiff was hired and has no
personal knowledge as to whether or not Plaintiff signed the Agreement;(2) the
submitted Agreement is preceded by a page that shows that the document was
accepted on Sunday April 4, 2021 at 12:06 a.m. However, Plaintiff never worked
for Defendant past 11:00 p.m. and did not work past 8:00 p.m. on Saturdays; (3)
the document was signed electronically using an online platform called UltiPro.
Plaintiff submitted a declaration that he never personally accessed the UltiPro
application since 2018; and (4) the Agreement was presented to Plaintiff two
months after having reported a work-related injury, and after Plaintiff had
already worked for Defendant for ten years. 
 
            As to Plaintiff’s first contention,
the arbitration agreement has been sufficiently authenticated. While Reed may
not have been an employee at the time of signing, the document was located in
Plaintiff’s personnel file, and was kept in the regular course of business. (See Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th at pp. 218-219 [a party moving to compel
arbitration need do no more than attach a signed copy of the agreement to the
motion to satisfy the authentication requirement].) 
 
            As to the remaining contentions, the
Court, after reviewing the evidence submitted in support of Plaintiff’s
remaining arguments, concludes that the preponderance of the evidence indicates
that Agreement was signed by Plaintiff. 
            
            Ms. Reed stated in declaration that upon
an individual’s hire, employees must create a personal UltiPro account with an
individual username and password. To electronically review and sign the
onboarding documents—including the arbitration agreement—the employee must sign
into the employee’s personal UltiPro account with the employee’s unique
individual username and password. Lazy Dog cannot access the new employee’s
individual password for their UltiPro account. (Reed Decl., ¶ 4.) Here, Plaintiff
contends unpersuasively that in 2018 his manger downloaded UltiPro on his phone,
created his account, and wrote down his username and password on a piece of
paper, which Plaintiff states he then lost. (Plaintiff Decl., ¶ 8.)  Yet, Plaintiff, presumably anticipating that
there is a record of him submitting multiple vacation requests through UltiPro,
claims that he would communicate these vacation requests to his manager Nancy
who would then access his UltiPro account on his behalf to process the request.
However, Plaintiff offers no explanation as to how Nancy would have known the unique
username and password to his account if even he did not (and the paper with the
information was lost), nor has he shown that UltiPro did not have a function
that would have allowed him to reset his password or confirm his username in
order to access UltiPro. 
 
            As such, the
Court finds inadequate evidence to conclude that his UltiPro was, or could have
been, accessed by anyone other than him. While Plaintiff claims he did not work
past 8 pm on Saturdays, the fact that the agreement was signed at 12 pm, on its
own, is insufficient to show that he could not have signed the agreement. This
is because Plaintiff himself states the UltiPro was downloaded on his phone,
and thus could have been accessed by him at any time. 
 
Given that
Defendants have established by a preponderance of the evidence that an
arbitration agreement exists, and that Plaintiff’s claims are covered by that
agreement, the burden shifts to the Plaintiff to establish that the arbitration
clause should not be enforced. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle
Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236. (Pinnacle).)
 
Plaintiff did not raise any additional arguments in
opposition as to why the agreement should not be enforced. 
 
As such, the Court finds that Plaintiff should be
compelled to arbitrate. This action is ordered stayed pending the completion of
arbitration. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  October   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  October   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 