 Case Number:  22CHCV00392    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  F49 Dept. F-49
Date: 1-30-24
Case # 22CHCV00392
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO FILE AND SERVED FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs
Aqua Blue Construction, Inc., and Britton Julien
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant John Goshorn
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiffs have
requested that the Court permit Plaintiffs to file and serve their First
Amended Complaint. Plaintiffs have also requested that the Court lift the stay
on these proceedings and re-assign the case to the Court’s docket. Finally,
Plaintiffs have requested that the Court permit Plaintiffs to re-file and
re-serve their demurrer and motion to strike portions of Defendant John Goshorn’s
Cross-Complaint.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
Plaintiffs Aqua
Blue Construction, Inc., and Britton Rodne Juliet (Plaintiffs) filed this
action on May 31, 2022, after Defendant John Goshorn (Defendant) allegedly
failed to pay for change orders to a pool and spa construction contract.
 
This matter was
sent to arbitration on December 29, 2022. After the costs for arbitration began
to add up, Plaintiff Aqua Blue Construction was unable to pay the arbitration
invoices. Defendant terminated the arbitration proceedings around the same
time. Both Aqua Blue and Defendant want to lift the stay on the proceedings for
arbitration and return the case to the Court’s docket.
 
Plaintiffs
filed this motion on December 15, 2023. Plaintiffs argue that lifting the stay
is proper under the circumstances and allowing the matter to be reassigned back
to the Court’s docket preserves Plaintiffs’ right to adjudicate their claims. Plaintiffs
also request that the Court grant permission to file and serve their First
Amended Complaint, which expands upon the fraud allegations in the complaint
and adds Tiana Goshorn as a Defendant. Plaintiffs claim that it became evident
in the discovery process during arbitration that Tiana Goshorn is an indispensable
party to the proceedings. Plaintiffs also request that the Court allow them to
re-file and re-serve their demurrer and motion to strike portions of
Defendant’s cross-complaint. These motions were taken off calendar when the
case was sent to arbitration.
 
Defendant does
not oppose lifting the stay or allowing Plaintiffs to re-file their demurer
with motion to strike. Defendant opposes allowing Plaintiffs to amend their
complaint to add Tiana Goshorn as a Defendant because Plaintiffs have no basis
for failing to have named Tiana Goshorn in the original complaint because the
alleged facts in the proposed complaint were known to Plaintiffs from the
outset. Defendant also argues that laches should bar the filing of an amended
complaint. Alternatively, Defendant requests that Plaintiffs’ motion be
continued because of Defendant’s request for terminating sanctions that is set
to be heard with Defendant’s motion for sanctions on April 8, 2024.
 
Plaintiffs
argue in their reply that Defendant does not cite any legal authority to
support his objections to naming Tiana Goshorn as a party in the proceedings
and permitting Plaintiffs to file a first amended complaint. Plaintiffs also
argue that Defendant does not include any support for his laches argument.
Plaintiffs also argue against Defendant’s request that the matter be continued
because of the terminating sanctions motion.
 
RULING:
Granted in part and denied in part
 
Defendant filed
objections to the declarations of K.W. Kampe III and Britton Roden Julien.
However, Plaintiffs object to Defendant’s objections because the objections are
not drafted in conformity with Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1354. That rule
requires objections to be numbered consecutively and to identify the language being
objected to by exhibit, title, page, and line number. It also requires that the
objectionable statement be set forth in complete form, and to state the grounds
for each objection with a specific ground for the objection. Plaintiffs’
objections fail to do all of this. Therefore, the Court need not consider
Plaintiffs’ objections.
 
Plaintiffs have
also objected to the proposed order that Defendant included with his opposition
because the proposed order proposes advancing the hearing on Defendant’s motion
for sanctions. Defendant proposed this without notice, motion, or citing
authority. Therefore, Defendant’s proposed order may be stricken pursuant to
CCP § 436.
 
Both parties
have requested that the stay be lifted and that the motion be placed back on
the Court’s docket. The Court grants this request to lift the stay. The case is
added to the Court’s docket.
 
Defendant has
not opposed Plaintiffs’ request to re-file and re-serve Aqua Blue’s demurrer
and motion to strike. The Court grants this request. Plaintiff Aqua Blue may
re-file and re-serve its demurrer with motion to strike within 30 days.
 
The only issue
left is whether Plaintiffs may amend their complaint.
 
This court is
authorized, in its discretion, to “allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars . . .” (CCP §
473(a)(1).) Code of Civil Procedure § 576, likewise, provides that “any judge,
at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment to any
pleading . . .” (CCP § 576.) The determination of whether to grant leave to
file an amended pleading rests in the court’s sound discretion.
 
Leave to amend
is to be liberally granted at any stage in the proceedings, up to and including
trial. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1986) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487; see
also County of Sanitation Dist. No. 2 of Los Angeles County v. Kern
County (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1544, 1618 (noting that a plaintiff may be
granted amendment even at the time of trial).) To overcome the policy of
liberally granting amendments at any stage of litigation, a defendant must show
both actual prejudice and inexcusable delay. (Magpali, 48 Cal.App.4th at
487.) Prejudice exists where an amendment to a complaint would result in a
delay of trial; loss of critical evidence; added costs of preparation; and
increased burden of discovery. (Id. at 486-488.)
 
Motions for
leave to amend must also meet certain procedural requirements. For instance,
Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1324(a) requires that the motion “(2) State what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and (3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to the
previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.”
 
Additionally,
Rule 3.1324(b) requires that the declaration in support of a motion for leave
to file an amended complaint must state: “(1) the effect of the amendment; (2)
why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request
for amendment was not made earlier.”
 
Plaintiffs’
motion claims that “[d]uring the discovery process in arbitration, it became
readily apparent that Tiana Goshorn is an indispensable party to the
proceedings both as an active participant in contract negotiations, but also as
a person knowledgeable as to demands for and acceptance of change order during
construction as well as discussions with Aqua Blue and Mr. Julien on how the
parties, as man and wife, agreed to pay for the change orders as requested.” (Motion
at p. 11.) However, Plaintiffs’ motion does not say why this was not uncovered
until discovery. Plaintiffs’ motion also does not state what allegations are
proposed to be added to or deleted from the previous pleading. Without this
information, the Court cannot grant Plaintiffs’ motion.
 
Plaintiffs’
motion for leave to file an amended complaint is denied.
 
Moving party to
give notice.