  Case Number:  22CHCP00338    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  F49 Dept. F-49
Date: 1-30-24
Case # 22CHCP00338
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff
Ararat Yousefi
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant Armen Vardanyan
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Plaintiff requests
leave to file a Second Amended Complaint
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
On September
28, 2022, Plaintiff Ararat Yousefi (Plaintiff) filed his original complaint.
Plaintiff alleged causes of action related to a breach of contract of a
partnership agreement for the purchase and renovation of a property. Plaintiff
alleged that Defendant Armen Vardanyan (Defendant) breached their agreement.
 
Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint was filed on May 17, 2023. Defendant filed his answer
on October 23, 2023. On January 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for
leave to file a second amended complaint. Plaintiff seeks to add several causes
of action to his complaint, including a cause of action for fraud. Defendant
opposes Plaintiff’s motion on the basis that the motion is procedurally
defective, Plaintiff has not explained the delay in bringing the motion, and
because Defendant will be prejudiced if the amendment is allowed.
 
RULING: Motion
denied.
 
This court is
authorized, in its discretion, to “allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other particulars . . .” (CCP §
473(a)(1).) Code of Civil Procedure § 576, likewise, provides that “any judge,
at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment to any
pleading . . .” (CCP § 576.) The determination of whether to grant leave to
file an amended pleading rests in the court’s sound discretion.
 
Leave to amend
is to be liberally granted at any stage in the proceedings, up to and including
trial. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1986) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 487; see
also County of Sanitation Dist. No. 2 of Los Angeles County v. Kern
County (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1544, 1618 (noting that a plaintiff may be
granted amendment even at the time of trial).) To overcome the policy of
liberally granting amendments at any stage of litigation, a defendant must show
both actual prejudice and inexcusable delay. (Magpali, 48 Cal.App.4th at
487.) Prejudice exists where an amendment to a complaint would result in a
delay of trial; loss of critical evidence; added costs of preparation; and
increased burden of discovery. (Id. at 486-488.)
 
Motions for
leave to amend must also meet certain procedural requirements. For instance,
Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1324(a) requires that the motion “(2) State what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are
located; and (3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to the
previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.”
 
Additionally,
Rule 3.1324(b) requires that the declaration in support of a motion for leave
to file an amended complaint must state: “(1) the effect of the amendment; (2)
why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to
the amended allegations were discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request
for amendment was not made earlier.”
 
Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to file an amended complaint does not meet the requirements
set forth in Rule 3.1324. Plaintiff’s motion does not state what allegations are
proposed to be added or deleted to the previous pleading. Nor does the
declaration accompanying Plaintiff’s motion clearly state the effect of the
amendment, why the motion is necessary and proper, and when the facts were
discovered.
 
Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s motion is procedurally defective. Plaintiff’s motion also attempts
to add punitive damages allegations back to the complaint that were previously
stricken by this Court. Finally, Plaintiff’s motion does not explain the delay
in bringing the motion.
 
Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to file a second amended complaint is denied.
 
Moving party to
give notice.