 Case Number:  22TRCV00273    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 August 15, 2023¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  22TRCV00273
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        David R.
Zimmerman, et al. v. Jay H. Zimmerman, et al. 

 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiffs, David R. Zimmerman,  etc. et al. 
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendants
Jay H. Zimmerman and Thomas B. Zimmerman
¿¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        March 18, 2024
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel Further
Responses and to Compel Defendant, Jay H. Zimmerman’s Production of Documents
to Requests for Production, Set One 
                                                (2)
Request for Sanctions
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) DISCUSS.  
 
 
This hearing was originally conducted
on August 15, 2023. The Court ordered Defendants to provide verified further or
supplemental written responses and production of documents, that the same be
provided within a month’s time and be received by Plaintiff’s counsel by September
15, 2023, and that the written responses must (as require by the Code) indicate
all non-privileged responsive documents have been produced or that responsive documents
have already been produced in this litigation by another party as verified by Bates
numbers.  The Court noted that the issues
of sanctions would be addressed at the next hearing. 
 
On September 15, 2023
Plaintiffs filed a status report indicating problems with the substance of
Defendants’ production of documents as not being in compliance with the Court’s
order. The status report also contends that Defendant
Jay Zimmerman did not produce either the supplemental verified response or the
privilege log required by the Court’s order. Surprisingly, defense counsel did
not file a written response to Plaintiffs’ status report.  That could be taken as a tacit admission that
the Court’s prior discovery order was violated, which would carry significant
consequences if the violation were unexcused. 
The Court will entertain oral argument from defense counsel as to: 
1.     
why no verified written response and no privilege log
were produced by the date the Court previously ordered, 
2.     
whether that shortcoming has been corrected in the intervening
two weeks,  
3.     
why the documents produced were transmitted in a fashion
that appears (to Plaintiffs’ counsel) to be intentionally designed to make it
more difficult or expensive for counsel or an expert to read and organize the documents
that were so produced, 
4.      Whether
Defendant concedes that Plaintiffs’ counsel will need to expend the estimated
$1,400 in paralegal and clerical time to make the pdfs to be segregated into individual
pages as to which Bates numbers can be assigned for reference in the case and contemplated
by the Court’s order and by defense counsel’s own reference to the Bates numbering
of all previously produced documents in this case, and
5.      Appropriate
monetary sanctions given what appear to be deliberate tactics constituting discovery
misuse necessitating the filing of the motion and the multiple hearings on the
motion