  Case Number:  21TRCV00073    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 October 2, 2023¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  21TRCV00073
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Iman Peykar v. BMW of North America, LLC,
et al  
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff, Iman Peykar 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant, BMW of North America, LLC
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        December 4, 2023
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set Two
                                                
¿ Tentative Rulings:                 (1)  The Hearing is Continued to Friday, October 6,
2023 at 9:00 a.m.  Defense counsel is
ordered to re-submit by October 4, 2023 the Separate Statement deleting the
“Statement of Insufficiency” and “Reason Why No Further Response is Necessary” sections
from the 923-page document submitted to the Court on September 18, 2023.  
 
The purpose of a Separate Statement
in a discovery motion is to make it easier, not harder, for the Court to rule
on specific interrogatories or document demand categories.  Regurgitating arguments, points, authorities,
and citations from a moving or opposing brief in a separate statement,
especially to the extent done by both sides here, violates the page limitations
of briefs supporting or opposing a motion.  The Court did not and will not read a 900-page
separate statement that appears to contain over 50% regurgitated material from
the parties’ briefs.    Accordingly, the revised Separate Statement to
be submitted will contain only the definitions plus the verbatim requests at
issue and the verbatim response to each request at issue.  If a supplemental response was given, the
revised Separate Statement must include that as well immediately following the
initial verbatim language of the response. 

 
The Court is mindful that we are
nearing the one-year anniversary of the first of multiple discovery and
discovery-related motions the parties have presented for the Court to rule
on.  The Court is also mindful that a
trial date looms a mere two months away. 
That trial date is now in jeopardy. 
The Court will consider an oral stipulation to continue the trial into
2024 such that the parties can complete the discovery and adequately prepare
for trial using the discovery responses and documents the Court is likely to
order on this motion.  
 
For purposes of enabling counsel to
prepare for oral argument, the Court sets forth below some basic parameters for
what it typically orders with respect to certain of the discovery requests
embraced by this motion.  The Court
typically orders and limits production of documents including ESI in a
Song-Beverly single-vehicle case as follows:
                                                

Purchase and/or lease contract concerning the
     subject vehicle must be produced.
Repair orders and invoices concerning the subject
     vehicle must be produced, including the “accounting” copies showing the
     hours and dates of activity by dealer personnel.
Communications between the plaintiff and the
     warrantor/manufacturer and/or its servicing dealers, and communications
     between Plaintiff and the manufacturer’s factory representative and/or
     call center concerning the subject vehicle.
Warranty claims submitted to and/or approved by
     Defendant concerning the subject vehicle.
The applicable Warranty Policy and Procedure
     Manual published by defendant and provided to its authorized repair
     facilities, within the State of California, for the year the lawsuit was
     filed.  If a separate written policy,
     procedure, or manual exists regarding repurchases or buy backs appliable
     to vehicles sold or leased in California, that would also be required to
     be produced for the year the lawsuit was filed and/or the year Plaintiff
     contends the vehicle became qualified for repurchase (such as upon
     satisfaction of the Presentation Element of a Song-Beverly cause of action
     under Section 1793.2(d)(2) or 1793.22). 
     Such documents would be produced subject to a protective order.
Any internal analysis and/or investigation
     regarding the primary or other recurring alleged defects claimed by
     plaintiff in her/his vehicle, applicable to the same year, make and model
     of the subject vehicle.  The Court
     tends to focus on the claimed symptom experienced by the plaintiff as described
     in the dealers’ repair records, rather than a broad and vague
     characterization of the claimed defect as described by counsel in the
     litigation.  For example, if the
     customer experienced a black Infotainment screen when shifting in reverse,
     or a harsh engagement or clunk of the transmission when accelerating from
     2nd to 3rd gear, those symptoms rather than any
     other nature of malfunction of the Infotainment system or transmission would
     be the narrowing of scope of such internal analysis or investigation to be
     produced.  
Other customers’ complaints similar to the
     alleged defects claimed by plaintiff, limited to vehicles purchased in
     California for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle.  The other customer complaints again
     would be limited in scope to the description of the symptom as shown on
     the dealer repair records.  The
     Court typically discusses with counsel the type of documents that may be
     required and the format for a production of documents such as in a
     sortable Excel spreadsheet that lists a compilation or summary of
     voluminous documents.
Technical Service Bulletins and/or Recall Notices
     for vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of
     the subject vehicle, whether mentioned in the repair history of the
     subject vehicle or not.
