 Case Number:  23AHCV00916    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT SALVATORE DI BENEDETTO’S MOTION TO DISMISS FOR LACK OF
PERSONAL JURISDICTIONI.        INTRODUCTION
           This
is a contractual dispute action. Plaintiff E1011 Labs LLC (E1011) alleges that
its former employees, Kevin Wang (Wang) and Daniel Hwang (Hwang) are in
violation of their Confidential Information and Inventions Agreements, for
allegedly scheming with Defendant Salvatore Di Benedetto (Benedetto) to develop
a competing product without Plaintiff. E1011 is in the business of creating, marketing,
and selling electronic vaporization products to smoke cannabis. Plaintiff
alleges that Di Benedetto initially approached Plaintiff to create a device,
Plaintiff assigned Wang and Hwang to the project and then Wang and Hwang
diverted the project from Plaintiff. Defendant Shenzhen Vizi Technology Co.
Ltd. is allegedly the corporation Defendants formed to make, manufacture, and
sell the device.
           The complaint alleges six causes of action: (1) Breach of
Contract, (2) Breach of Contract, (3) Conversion, (4) Violation of
Comprehensive Computer Data Access and Fraud Act, (5) Violation of BPC § 17200
and (6) Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage. 
           Before the Court is Defendant Salvatore Di Benedetto’s
motion to dismiss for lack of personal jurisdiction, filed February 29, 2024. E1011
Labs filed an opposition on April 22, 2024. Di Benedetto filed a reply on April
23, 2024.
           Defendant Di Benedetto urges that the case against him
should be dismissed, as he resides in Illinois and Plaintiff is a Delaware
corporation. However, as Di Benedetto has already made a general appearance in
the case, he has consented to the jurisdiction of this court. Therefore, his
motion to dismiss is DENIED.
II.       DISCUSSION
           On February 29, 2024, Defendant Salvatore Di Benedetto
filed this motion to dismiss. (Motion to Dismiss.) Di Benedetto, who is
apparently a resident of Illinois, urges that this court does not have personal
jurisdiction over him. (See Motion p. 4-5.) Di Benedetto urges that “Claims
1,2,3 and 4 against the Defendant are supported by no factual evidence and
inherently are false. This Court should dismiss all claims made by Plaintiff
against Mr. DiBenedetto.” (Motion p. 5.)
           Di Benedetto further urges that he is not subject to either
general or specific personal jurisdiction in California. He urges that he is
not a resident of, has business relationships in or otherwise has had any
purposeful contact with California. However, the opposition contends that by
allegedly partnering with the other individual Defendants, Di Benedetto
purposefully availed himself of the benefits of California law and has business
relationships in California. The other two individual Defendants, Kevin Wang
and David Hwang were employed in California by E1011. (See Opposition p. 16.)
CCP Section
395, subdivision (a) provides that “the superior court in the county where the
defendants or some of them reside at the commencement of the action is the
proper court for the trial of the action.”  (CCP § 395(a).) However, under
Code of Civil Procedure Section 396b, subdivision (a), if an action is filed in
a court other than the court designated as the proper court, the Defendant
seeking transfer to a proper court must file a motion at the time he answers,
demurs, or moves to strike. (CCP § 396b(a).)
On February
26, 2024, Di Benedetto filed a response and answer to the complaint. Di
Benedetto did not move to transfer or dismiss this action at that time. On
February 8, 2024, Di Benedetto filed a response to the motion for preliminary
injunction. Di Benedetto then appeared at the hearing on February 29, 2024, on
Plaintiff’s motion for preliminary injunction. A defendant makes a general
appearance by participating in an action “in some manner which recognizes the
authority of the court to proceed.”  (Mt. Holyoke Homes, LP v. California
Costal Com. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 830, 844.) 
Defendant
Di Benedetto made a general appearance by filing the answer and an opposition
to the preliminary injunction, as well as appearing at the preliminary
injunction hearing, and thus has consented to this Court’s jurisdiction. (See
Opposition p. 13: 24-25.)
Therefore,
the motion to dismiss is DENIED.
        III.     CONCLUSION
           Motion to dismiss is DENIED. 
           Plaintiff E1011 Labs’ counsel is ordered to give notice Dated: May 1, 2024                                         _______________________________
                                                                               
       JARED D. MOSES
                                                                         JUDGE
OF THE SUPERIOR COURT