  Case Number:  23STCV18300    Hearing Date:   February 1, 2024    Dept:  49 Leah Remini v. Church of Scientology International, et al. (1) APPLICATION OF BRITTANY N. HENDERSON FOR ADMISSION PRO HAC VICE(2) APPLICATION OF BRADLEY J. EDWARDS FOR ADMISSION PRO HAC VICE MOVING PARTY: (1) Brittany N. Henderson and (2) Bradley J. Edwards, as counsel for Plaintiff Leah ReminiRESPONDING PARTY:  None.STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff Leah Remini (“Remini” or “Plaintiff’) brings this action against Defendants David Miscavige (“Miscavige”), Church of Scientology International (“CSI”), and Religious Technology Center (“RTC”).Plaintiff Remini is a former Scientologist who alleges that Defendants have “undertaken a campaign to ruin and destroy her livelihood” after she publicly departed Scientology in 2013. Plaintiff alleges that she, friends, and family members have been stalked, surveilled, harassed, and more by persons controlled and coordinated by Scientology. Plaintiff now brings this action for (1) Civil Harassment, (2) Stalking, (3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, (4) Tortious Interference with Contractual Relationship, (5) Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage, (6) Defamation and Defamation Per Se, (7) Defamation by Implication, (8) False Light, and (9) Declaratory Judgment. Attorneys Brittany N. Henderson and Bradley J. Edwards now move to be admitted Pro Hac Vice as counsel for Plaintiff Remini. No opposition was filed.TENTATIVE RULING:Counsel Brittany H. Henderson’s Application to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED.Counsel Bradley J. Edwards’ Application to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED.Moving party to give notice.DISCUSSION:Applications for Admission Pro Hac ViceA. Legal StandardCalifornia Rules of Court Rule 9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to appear pro hac vice in this State by way of written application upon notice by mail to all interested parties, as well as service on the State Bar in San Francisco with payment of a $50.00 fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of California, does not work in California, and does not perform regular or substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40).The application must state: (1) The applicant's residence and office address;  (2) The courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates of admission;  (3) That the applicant is a licensee in good standing in those courts;  (4) That the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court;  (5) The title of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and (6)  The name, address, and telephone number of the active licensee of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d)).B. Application of Brittany N. Henderson Based on the Application and attached Declaration, Counsel Brittany Henderson is not employed or residing within California (Henderson Decl. ¶¶ 3); the application contains the necessary addresses (id.); the application has the proper admission information for other courts where the attorney is admitted (id. ¶ 4); and the attorney is in good standing in those jurisdictions (Id. ¶¶ 5, 6.) In the previous two years, Counsel Henderson has appeared Pro Hac Vice in two other California cases, those being Chrissie Carnell Bixler, et. al., v. Church of Scientology, et. al., Case No. 19STCV29458, filed August 22, 2019 and Jane Doe v. Defendant Doe, et. al., Case No. 22STCV40862. (Id. ¶ 7.)Counsel Henderson is to be associated with local counsel Seth M. Lehrman. (Id. ¶ 9). Counsel Lehrman confirms payment of the mandatory application fee to the State Bar on Counsel Henderson’s behalf. (Lehrman Decl. ¶ 5.)Finding the requirements of Rule 9.40 satisfied, and without objection, Counsel Henderson’s Application to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED.C. Application of Bradley J. EdwardsBased on the Application and attached Declaration, Counsel Edwards is not employed or residing within California (Edwards Decl. ¶ 3, 8); the application contains the necessary addresses (id.); the application has the proper admission information for other courts where the attorney is admitted (Id. ¶ 4); and the attorney is in good standing in those jurisdictions (Id. ¶ 5.)Counsel Edwards has appeared in California once in the previous two years, that case being Chrissie Carnell Bixler, et. al., v. Church of Scientology, et. al., Case No. 19STCV29458, filed August 22, 2019. (Id. ¶ 7.)Counsel Edwards is to be associated with local counsel Seth M. Lehrman. (Id. ¶ 9). Counsel Lehrman confirms payment of the mandatory application fee to the State Bar on Counsel Edwards’ behalf. (Lehrman Decl. ¶ 5.) Again finding the requirements of Rule 9.40 satisfied, Counsel Edwards’ Application to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice is GRANTED.Moving party to give notice.IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   February 1, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court 