

 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 6, 2022, Plaintiff Shawn King (“Plaintiff”) commenced the
present action against Defendants Blouin & Company, Inc., Robert Cinelli,
David Blouin, Becky Radant, Christy Wise, Devonshire Delaware, Greg
Christensen, Lizanne Engemann, Shannon Engemann Grossman, Sydney Gail Stayden,
Tali Flying LP, and Does 1 through 50. Plaintiff alleges following causes of
action: Professional Negligence, Breach of Fiduciary Duty, Fraud, Conversion of
Community Property, Equitable and/or Implied Indemnity, Accounting of Community
Property, Set Aside of Transfer of Community Property without Spousal Consent,
Imposition of Constructive Trust, Declaration that Gifts of Community Personal
Property Are Void, and Negligent/Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress,
 
On December 21, 2022, Defendants Blouin & Company, Inc., David
Blouin, and Robert Cinelli filed their Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff, Larry
King Enterprises, Inc., LK Productions Inc., LK Aircraft LLC, and La Perla
Publishing, Inc. for Breach of Written Contract, Breach of Oral Contract,
Account Stated, Unjust Enrichment, Money Had and Received, Quantum Meruit,
Common Count, and Goods and Services Rendered.
 
On December 30, 2022, Defendants Blouin & Company, Inc., David
Blouin, and Robert Cinelli filed their Amended Cross-Complaint to include Roes
1 to 25.
 
On June 20, 2023, the Court entered an Order granting Defendant Greg
Christensen’s Special Motion to Strike Pursuant to C.C.P. § 425.16 In Its
Entirety.
 
On July 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Appeal, appealing the Order
dated June 20, 2023.
 
On September 7, 2023, the Court entered a Minute Order, staying the proceedings
due to the filing of Plaintiff’s appeal.
 
On September 26, 2023, Defendants Blouin & Company, Inc., David
Blouin, and Robert Cinelli (“moving Defendants” or “Blouin Defendants”) filed
the instant Motion for Reconsideration of the Court’s September 7, 2023 Minute
Order.
 
On January 10, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the instant motion and
subsequently, on January 17, 2024, the moving Defendants replied.
 
MOVING
PARTY’S ARGUMENTS
              
(1)   The motion is timely made.
 
(2)   New and different facts or
circumstances justify allowing discovery to continue between the Blouin
Defendants and Plaintiff on causes of action unrelated to Plaintiff’s appeal.
OPPOSITION
ARGUMENTS
             
(1)   The motion was untimely filed.
 
(2)   The motion lacks merits as it does
not show any new and different facts or circumstances. 
REPLY
ARGUMENTS
 
(1)   The Court should, despite the
motions’ untimely filing, exercise its discretion to hear it, asserting that
the delay, while a mistake, did not cause prejudice to Plaintiff.
 
(2)   The Court has inherent power to
reconsider its own ruling, citing Le
Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094.
 
ANALYSIS
I.                  
Legal
Standards
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1008 subdivision (a) provides, it is stated, in part, that “[w]hen an
application for an order has been made to judge, or to a court, … or granted,
or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within
10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and
based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to
the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and
modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall
state by affidavit … what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are
claimed to be shown.” (Underlines added.)
“If a court at any time determines
that there has bee a change of law that warrants it to reconsider a prior order
it entered, it may do so on its own motion and enter a different order.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (c).)
“This
section specifies the court’s jurisdiction with regard to applications for
reconsideration of its orders and renewals of previous motions, and applies to
all applications to reconsider any order of a judge or court, or for the
renewal of a previous motion, whether the order deciding the previous matter or
motion is interim or final. No application to reconsider any order or for the
renewal of a previous motion may be considered by any judge or court unless
made according to this section.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (e).)
II.               
Analysis of Compliance
with Code of Civil Procedure Section 1008 Requirements
 
A.               
Timeliness
The moving Defendants assert in
their moving papers that the instant motion was filed timely. (Mot., at p. 4.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1008
requires that an application for reconsideration must be made “within 10 days
after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).)
Here, the Minute Order was entered
on September 7, 2023. Plaintiff’s counsel then provided written notice of this
Order to all parties by email on September 11, 2003, establishing the ten-day
time limit to expire on September 21, 2023. The instant motion was filed on
September 26, 2023, five days after the deadline. Furthermore, the moving
Defendants admit that they overlooked the emailed notice from Plaintiff’s
counsel, and mistakenly believed that the notice of entry of the Minute Order
had not been made. (Everson Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.)
Therefore, the moving Defendant’s
initial assertion about timeliness is not correct. The Court finds that the
instant motion was filed late.
B.                
New of
different facts, circumstances, or law
Neither the instant motion nor its
supporting Declaration offers any new or different facts that would warrant
reconsideration of the Court’s September 7, 2023 Minute Order.
Code of Civil Procedure section 1008
explicitly states that a motion made under this section must be “based upon new
or different facts, circumstances, or law… The party making the application
shall state by affidavit what application was made before, … and what new or
different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).)
The moving Defendants argue that
“new and different facts or circumstances justify continuing discovery (Mot.,
at p. 4.),” and claim that the Court should proceed with matters that are not
embraced in or affected by the appeal, citing the cause of action under appeal,
distinct from those against the Blouin Defendants, do not affect the discovery
or other proceedings, citing Code of Civil Procedure section 916. (Mot., at p.
5.) However, the Court is not persuaded by this argument.
First, the difference in the causes
of action alleged against various Defendants does not by itself constitute any “new
or different facts, circumstance, or law” justifying reconsideration. The Court
notes that these causes of action have remained unchanged before the entry of
the Minute Order in question. Consequently, the Court has already considered
all relevant facts present at the time of the order.  Therefore, these existing or unchanged facts
fail to meet the required conditions for reconsideration under section 1008, as
doing so would render this section’s requirement meaningless. 
Second, Code of Civil Procedure
section 1008 subdivision (e) explicitly states that “[n]o application to reconsider any order or for the renewal of a
previous motion may be considered by any judge or court unless made according
to this section,” necessitating a clear demonstration
of compliance by the moving parties before the Court proceeds to consider
substantive merits. 
As discussed above, the Court determines
that the instant motion does not meet the Code requirements. Additionally, the
Court need not address the argument based on Code of Civil Procedure section
916, since section 1008 precludes the review on merits if the motion is not
made according to its provisions.
C.               
Defendants’
mistake as excusable neglect  
In their Reply, the moving
Defendants acknowledge that their attorneys overlooked the email regarding the notice
of entry from Plaintiff’s counsel on September 11, 2023, leaving them unaware of
the deadline for filing the instant motion and believing in good faith that
their filing was timely. (Reply, at p. 4). Despite this, the moving Defendants
argue that the motion should be considered on its merits, asserting that the delay
was a mistake and caused no prejudice to Plaintiff. (Reply, at p. 4.)
As the instant motion was filed
under the authority of Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, the Court assesses
whether the moving Defendant’s stated reasons align with this section.
“The expression of somethings in a
statute necessarily means the exclusion of other things not expressed.” (Gikas
v. Zolin (1993) 6 Cal.4thh 841, 852.) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 1008
does not recognize mistakes or excusable neglect as valid reasons to override
any non-compliance with its provisions. Additionally, the moving Defendants’ claim
that Plaintiff has suffered no prejudice due to the late filing is irrelevant. Even
assuming it is true, this consideration, not specified in the Code section, cannot
supersede the section’s expressed requirements. 
Accordingly, this argument lacks
merit.
A.               
The Court’s
inherent power to reconsider
“No
application to reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous motion may
be considered by any judge or court unless made according to this section.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (e).)
The moving Defendants rely on Le
Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094 (Le Francois), contending that
the Court nevertheless has inherent power to reconsider its previous order. 
The Court agrees that Le Francois
is instructive but disagrees with the moving Defendants’ conclusion.
In Le Francois, the Supreme
Court addressed whether a court’s inherent power to reconsider its own ruling
applies both to actions taken sua sponte and those made in response to a
litigant’s motion. There, the defendants argue that “the line … between
impermissible action by a court on a party’s initiative and permissible action
by a court on its own makes no constitutional sense. What is determinative is
whether there is error to correct, not who discerns the error’s existence.” The
Supreme Court rejected this argument. (Le Francois, supra, 35
Cal.4th at p. 1103.)
The Supreme Court stated that “unless
the requirements of section 437c, subdivision (f)(2) [not applicable here], or
1008 are satisfied, any action to reconsider a prior interim order must
formally begin with the court on its own motion.” (Id., at p.
1108.) It explained that the 1992 amendment to section 1008 aimed to “conserve
judicial resources…. This legislative purpose is advanced if section 1008 is
understood to apply to the actions of the parties, not to a court’s sua sponte
reconsideration of its own interim order.” (Id., at p. 1106.) The Supreme Court
also noted that “absent section 1008, trial court might themselves inundated
with reconsideration motions requiring that they rehash issues upon which they
have already ruled and about which they have no doubt.” (Ibid.) 
An example was also illustrated in
the Le Francois case, “for example, nothing would prevent the losing
party from asking the court at a status conference to reconsider a ruling.
(Citations.) But a party may not file a written motion to reconsider that has
procedural significance if it does not satisfy the requirements of section
437c, subdivision (f)(2) [not applicable here], or 1008.” (Id., at
1108.)
As previously discussed, the instant
motion does not meet the procedural requirement for timeliness, or the
substantive requirement of presenting new or different facts, circumstances, or
law. Accordingly, review of a reconsideration initiated by a litigant’s motion is
prohibited under Code of Civil Procedure section 1008 subdivision (e). Following
the ruling and interpretation of Le Francois, the Court’s inherent power to
reconsider its own ruling does not apply in response to a litigant’s motion.[1], [2]
III.            
Conclusion
The Court denies the Motion for
Reconsideration.


