 Case Number:  19STCV34756    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2023    Dept:  31 TENTATIVE 
 
Defendants’ Motion to Compel Mental
Examination of Plaintiff is GRANTED but limited as follows: The Court orders
the parties to meet and confer to draft a stipulated protective order confining
the scope of disclosure and use of the raw test data and audio-recording of the
interview and examination so that it may be properly used by Plaintiff’s
counsel to consult with Plaintiff’s own experts and to conduct
cross-examination of Defendants’ experts. The protective order should include
instructions to destroy the material at the conclusion of the matter.
 
Request for Judicial Notice
I. Plaintiff
requests judicial notice of: 
(1)
Order in the case
titled Arrellano, et al. v. Vogel, et al., Alameda County Superior
Court, Case No. RG10521181, in which the Court ruled that Dr. Kyle Boone was
Ordered to permit audio recording of the entire examination,
including testing; 
(2)
Notice of Ruling in the matter of Nicole Salinas, et al., v. Fernando Galvis
Ortiz, et al., LASC Case No. BC569227, in which the Defendant’s retained
neuropsychologist Dr. Kyle Boone was ordered to produce the raw test data and
audio recording of the examination directly to Plaintiff’s counsel; 
(3)
Stipulation re: Neuropsychology Exam, in the case styled Suzi Scanlon et
al., v. C.R. England, Inc. et al, San Bernardino Superior Court Case No.
CIVDS1918714 which the Defendant’s retained expert, Dr Michelle Conover, agreed
to audio record the entire exam (including testing) and to produce the audio
recording and the raw test data directly to Plaintiff’s counsel pursuant to a
protective order; 
(4)
Stipulation for mental examination in the litigation styled Michael Klimusha
v. City of Los Angeles, LASC Case No. 19STCV28142, in which the Defendant’s
neuropsychologist agreed to audio record the entire examination, including
testing; 
(5)
Stipulation in the matter of Garcia v. 2095 N. Batavia Street, LLC, OCSC
Case No., 20-2020-01175510-CU-PO-CJC in which the Defendant’s
neuropsychologist, Dr. Vincent Filoteo, agreed to audio record the entire
examination, including testing; 
(6)
Relevant pages of Rulings on Motions in Limine in the matter of Jessica Vu
v. 2447 Pacific Coast Highway LLC, et al., LASC Case No. BC65096; minute
order re. same; and subsequent Stipulation and Protective Order regarding the
same case; 
(7)
Stipulation and Order in the matter of Lusine Muradyan v. Jose Roberto
Alonso, et al., LASC Case No. 21STCV10450, in which the Defendant’s
neuropsychologist agreed to produce the raw test data from the examination
directly to Plaintiff’s attorney; 
(8)
Minute Order in the matter of Igor G. Vdovchenko v. Cypress Equity, LASC
Case No. 20STCV15671, in which the Court Ordered that the entire examination,
including testing, shall be audio recorded, as there is no authority that the
Code only allows recording of a portion of the examination; 
(9)
Minute Order in the case styled Chavez v. Parrott, et al., LASC Case No.
BC701108 in which the Court ordered production of the entire audio recording of
the neuropsychological examination without a protective order; 
(10)
Order in the matter of Schram v. Deng, et al, LASC Case No 19STCV42318
requiring production of the raw data directly to plaintiff’s counsel and
allowing plaintiff to make an audio recording of the examination; 
(11) A
true and correct copy of the herein-cited portions Pearson’s N/A Legal
Policies, listed on Pearson’s website at
https://www.pearsonassessments.com/footer/legalpolicies.html. The ‘Litigation’
section states that “[s]hould litigation in which a psychologist is involved
reach the stage where a court considers ordering the release of proprietary
test materials to non- professionals such as counsel, we request that the court
issue a protective order….”
The request for judicial notice of items
1-10 is GRANTED under Evidence Code section 452(d). The request for judicial
notice of item 11 is GRANTED under section 452(h). Without accepting the
contents as true, the Court may take judicial notice of the existence of
websites or blogs. (Ragland v. US Bank National Assn., (2012) 209
Cal.App. 4th 182, 193; Unruh-Haxton v. Regents of University of California (2008)
162 Cal.App.4th 343, 363.)
II. Defendants request judicial notice
of:
(1)  Notice
of Ruling RE: Motion to Compel to Neuropsychological Examination in case
entitled Leah Anderson v. Brian Jones et al., LASC Case No. 21STCV00175
(2)  Notice
of Ruling in case entitled Edna Erickson v. Johnnie Tang et al., LASC
Case No. 20STCV08291 
(3)  Tentative
Order RE: Defendants Johnnie Tang and Muoi Vuong’s Motion for Leave to Obtain
Neuropsychological Examination of Plaintiff in case entitled Edna Erickson
v. Johnnie Tang et al., LASC Case No. 20STCV08291 
(4)  Tentative
Ruling Granting Defendants Jorge Alberto Vanegas, Ryder Truck Rental, Inc. and
Stram Links Express, Inc.’s Motion for Leave to Conduct Neuropsychological
Examination of Plaintiff in case entitled Ana Perez Martinez v. Jorge
Alberto Vanegas et al., LACS Case No. 20STCV29539 
(5)  Tentative
Ruling Granting Defendant Cristina Ciminelli’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff to
Submit to Multiple Independent Medical Examinations in case entitled Raquel
Montanez v. Cristina Ciminello, LASC Case No. 20STCV42434 
(6)  Tentative
Ruling ordering Defendants City of Long Beach, Ray Hernandez, Jr. and Armando
Hernandez’s expert to produce the raw [psychological test] data directly to any
licensed psychologist Plaintiff retains as an expert in this action, but not to
Plaintiff or Plaintiff’s counsel. The Court similarly precludes Plaintiff from
providing a copy of the audio recording of the testing portion of the
examination to his attorney or any non-party to the litigation. The audio
recording of this examination shall be disclosed only to the Court and/or
Plaintiff’s retained experts in the field in case entitled Katelyn Sanchez
v. City of Long Beach et al., LASC Case No. BC689551 
(7)  Ruling
Granting Defendant Kaiser Foundation Hospital’s Motion to Compel Plaintiff
Aimmy Wilson’s Mental Exam in case entitled Immy Wilson et al. v. Welch
Allyn, Inc. et al., LASC Case No. BC677924 
Defendants’ request for judicial notice is GRANTED
under Evidence Code section 452(d).
Legal Standard 
 
A court order is required to obtain a party’s mental
examination. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.310(a).)  Such an order may be made only after
notice and hearing, and for "good cause shown."¿ (Code Civ. Proc.,
§§ 2032.310(c), 2032.320(a).)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
The motion must state the time, place,
identity and specialty of the examiner, and the "manner, conditions, scope
and nature of the examination."¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310(b).)  “An order granting a physical or
mental examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the
examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and
procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2032.320(d).)  “The court is to describe¿in detail¿who will conduct the
examination, where and when it will be conducted, the conditions, scope and
nature of the examination, and the diagnostic tests and procedures to be
employed. The way to describe these ‘diagnostic tests and procedures’—fully¿and¿in
detail—is to list them by name.” (Carpenter v. Superior Court¿(2006)
141 Cal.App.4th 249, 260.)¿ 
¿ 
The moving party must support their motion with a meet
and confer declaration.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310(b).)¿ A meet and confer declaration
must state facts "showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion."¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2016.040.)¿¿¿ 
¿ 
The examination will be limited to
whatever condition is "in controversy" in the action.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.020(a).)¿ This means that the specific injury or subject of the
litigation must be directly invoked by the examination.¿ (See¿Roberts v.
Superior Court¿(1973) 9 Cal.3d 330, 337.)¿ By alleging a causal link between the
emotional distress and the defendant's conduct, a plaintiff "implicitly
claims it was not caused by a preexisting mental condition, thereby raising the
question of alternative sources for the distress."¿ (Vinson v. Superior
Court¿(1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  However, a mental examination is only
appropriate where the plaintiff alleges continuing emotional distress. (Doyle
v. Sup. Ct. (Caldwell)¿(1996) 50 Cal.App.4th¿1878, 1886-1887.)¿ "While a plaintiff may place his
mental state in controversy by a general allegation of severe emotional
distress, the opposing party may not require him to undergo psychiatric testing
solely on the basis of speculation that something of interest may surface."¿
(Vinson,¿supra, 43 Cal.3d at 840.)¿¿¿ 
  
Discussion 
 
Defendants move
for an order for leave to conduct Plaintiff’s mental Independent Medical
Examination (IME). Defendants argue there is good cause because Plaintiff put
her mental state in controversy. Plaintiff’s counsel refuses to produce
Plaintiff for the IMEs unless the examining neuropsychologist (Kyle Boone
Ph.D.) and neuropsychiatrist (James High, M.D.) agree to provide all raw
testing materials, as well as a full audio recording of the testing component
of the neuropsychological IME directly to Plaintiff’s counsel. Defendants argue
that this would require Drs. High and Boone to violate the ethical code of
conduct in their respective fields by compromising test security.
Plaintiff agrees to
undergo the examination but, as Defendants have mentioned, proposes certain
limitations be set regarding the IME. First, Plaintiff demands a detailed report of the examination,
including the raw data be produced to her counsel. Second, Plaintiff demands a
full audio recording of the examination, including the testing portions.
I.   Production of Raw Data from Defendant’s
Expert to Plaintiff’s Counsel
 
As to producing the raw data to Plaintiff’s
counsel, CCP section 2032.610(a) states:  “If a party submits to, or
produces another for, a physical or mental examination in compliance with a
demand under Article 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), an order of court
under Article 3 (commencing with Section 2032.310), or an agreement under
Section 2016.030, that party has the option of making a written demand that the
party at whose instance the examination was made deliver both of the following
to the demanding party: 
 
(1)  A copy of a detailed written
report setting out the history, examinations, findings, including the results
of all tests made, diagnoses, prognoses, and conclusions of the
examiner      . . . .” 
 
Therefore,
Plaintiff may make a written demand that Defendant produce “[a] copy of a
detailed written report setting out the history, examinations, findings,
including the results of all tests made, diagnoses, prognoses, and conclusions
of the examiner.”  The Court finds that Plaintiff’s opposition constitutes
a written request for these documents and finds that the underlying raw testing
data should also be produced as part of the “results of all tests made.” Plaintiff will not be able to effectively cross-examine the
defense experts without it, which would result in unfairness and prejudice to
Plaintiff. “There is no statutory authority precluding a trial court from
ordering the disclosure of test materials or test data when ordering a mental
examination.” (Randy’s Trucking, Inc., v. Superior
Court (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 818, 833-837.) Given the trial court's broad discretion in discovery
matters, the trial court has the power to order disclosure of test materials
and data to plaintiff's attorney. (Id.)
 
A. Protective Order
Defendants
raise concerns regarding ethical issues about certain documents being used
outside proper psychological contexts.  Defendants argue that the effectiveness of
the subject neuropsychological and neuropsychiatric tests depends on the
novelty of the tests and the naivete of the patients/plaintiffs being tested.
That is, the tests will only measure what they’re designed to measure if
examinees go into the process without knowing how the tests work – they must be
unaware of questions that will be asked, test procedures, test demands, test
content, and any other stimulus materials. The prospect of these test materials
being disseminated among non- psychologists and non-psychiatrists is extremely
problematic, because it threatens the security and future validity of such
tests and undermines their practical application in areas including but not
limited to public safety and the judicial process. There is also a significant
risk of straining valuable neuropsychological and neuropsychiatric resources if
highly sensitive, proprietary raw test data is distributed to unauthorized
individuals. 
Plaintiff
proposes a protective order.
 
The
Court orders the parties to meet and confer to draft a stipulated protective
order confining the scope of disclosure and use of the raw test data so that it
may be properly used by Plaintiff’s counsel to consult with Plaintiff’s own
experts and to conduct cross-examination of Defendants’ experts. 
 
B. Would Producing the Raw Data Violate
Dr. Boone and Dr. High’s Ethical Obligations? 
 
Defendants
argues that producing the raw data is contrary to 16 C.C.R. §
1396.3, which states, “A psychologist shall not reproduce or describe in
public or in publications subject to general public distribution any
psychological tests or other assessment devices, the value of which depends in
whole or in part on the naivete of the subject, in ways that might invalidate
the techniques; and shall limit access to such tests or devices to persons with
professional interests who will safeguard their use.”  (Emphasis added.)
However, the dissemination or reproduction of the testing materials in public
or in publications subject to general public distribution is not at issue here,
as it will be subject to a protective order.
 
Further,
Standard 9.11 of the Ethical Principles of Psychologists and Code of Conduct
states that psychologists should “make reasonable efforts to maintain
the integrity and security of test materials and other assessment techniques consistent
with law and contractual obligations, and in a manner that permits
adherence to this Ethics Code.”
 
Similarly,
Standard 9.21 of The Standards for Educational and Psychological Testing states
that test users have the responsibility to protect the security of tests,
including that of previous editions. However, it also states when tests are
involved in litigation, inspection of the instruments should be restricted-to
the extent permitted by law to those who are obligated legally or by
professional ethics to safeguard test security. (Boone Decl., Exh. F.)
 
With respect to conflicts between ethics
and law or other governing legal authority, the Code of Conduct provides the
following: 
 
If psychologists’ ethical responsibilities
conflict with law, regulations, or other governing legal authority,
psychologists clarify the nature of the conflict, make known their commitment
to the Ethics Code, and take reasonable steps to resolve the conflict
consistent with the General Principles and Ethical Standards of the Ethics
Code.  Under no circumstances may this standard be used to justify or
defend violating human rights. 
(Id., p. 4, Standard 1.02.) 
The Official Position Statement of the National Academy of Neuropsychology has
set forth potential solutions neuropsychologists can utilize when there is a
possible conflict with a request for test data or a recorded examination. 
These include an offer from the neuropsychologist to send the requested
material to another qualified neuropsychologist after obtaining assurances that
the material will be properly protected by that professional or to make protective
arrangements through such measures as protective orders from the court. 
(Id., Ex. 2, p. 384.)  
Based on this, Dr. Boone and Dr. High
could fulfill her ethical obligations by agreeing to a protective order. “The most common resolution of this type of dispute
[whether to compel production of raw test data] has been some compromise
between full, unconditioned disclosure and total exemption from the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure.  One court found that testing materials need
only be turned over to opposing counsel’s qualified expert witness.  Other
courts have resolved the conflicting interests by issuing a protective
order.”  (Taylor v. Erna (Aug. 3, 2009 Dist. of Mass.) 2009 U.S.
Dist. LEXIS 23578, *7 (citations omitted).)  The Court notes that
unpublished federal district court opinions are citable as persuasive, although
not precedential, authority.  (Olinick v. BMG Entertainment (2006)
138 Cal.App.4th 1286, 1301 fn. 11.) 
Lastly, Defendants cite to Business and Professions Code and California
Code of Regulations sections in asserting that California has enacted rules
applicable to professionals that deal with these exams.  However, none of
the sections cited by Defendants hold that a psychologist or mental healthcare
professional is prohibited from sharing testing information or test data with a
plaintiff’s attorney subject to a protective order under the circumstances
presented. 
In sum, the Court orders
the parties to meet and confer to draft a stipulated protective order confining
the scope of disclosure and use of the raw test data so that it may be properly
used by Plaintiff’s counsel to consult with Plaintiff’s own experts and to
conduct cross-examination of Defendants’ experts. Dr.
Boone and Dr. High could fulfill their ethical obligations by agreeing to a
protective order. 
               II. Audio recordings 
Next, Plaintiff demands an audio
recording of the examination, including the testing portion.
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.530, “[t]he examiner and examinee shall
have the right to record a mental examination by audio technology.”  Nothing in the
statute restricts the portions of a mental exam that may be audio
recorded.  (Golfland Entertainment Ctrs., Inc. v. Sup.Ct. (2003),
108 Cal.App.4th 739, 750, 752 [trial court abused discretion limiting audio
recording to examinee’s responses only; entire mental exam was to be
recorded].) 
               
The mental
examination statute, section 2032, subdivision (g)(2), states in relevant part:
“The examiner and examinee shall have the right to record a mental examination
on audio tape.” At the hearing, the trial court explained that it was ordering
the recording of David's statements, but not Dr. Epperson's, because “[t]hat's
what the Code says, by my reading.” The trial court's reading of the Code was
incorrect. Nothing in the applicable statute suggests that the right of the
examiner or examinee is limited to recording only selected parts of the
examination. 
 
Further,
recording only the examinee's responses would defeat the main purposes of the
audiotaping, which are to ensure that the examiner does not overstep the bounds
set by the court for the mental examination, that the context of the responses
can be judged for purposes of trial, that the examinee's interests are
protected (especially since the examinee's counsel ordinarily will not be
present), and that any evidence of abuse can be presented to the court. (See Vinson,
supra, 43 Cal.3d 833, 846, 239 Cal.Rptr. 292, 740 P.2d 404.) 
 
(Id. at 750.)   
 
Again,
any discussed fully above, any ethical concerns will be resolved by the parties
entering into a protective order. As such, Plaintiff is entitled to a full
audio recording, including the testing portion.
Additionally, Defendants argue
they will be severely prejudiced because they will be deprived of an
opportunity to evaluate Plaintiff’s alleged mental health-related injuries,
which Plaintiff has placed squarely at issue in this case. However, Defendants
have not explained how they will be deprived of an opportunity to evaluate
Plaintiff’s mental-health injuries. The test results will be produced after the
test. The test will still be novel to Plaintiff at the time she takes it, and
thus it will be effective.
Defendants argue that Drs. Boone
and High have expressed that if they are forced to produce raw test data and
audio recording of the test portion of the psychological IME, they would have
no choice but to recuse themselves. Defendants argue that because numerous
psychologists in the community support their position, Defendants anticipate
that it would be extremely difficult to identify new psychologist and
psychiatrist experts who would agree to produce raw test data directly to
Plaintiff’s counsel. The Court disagrees. Defendants can find another
neuropsychologist who is willing to produce the test data under a protective
order.
Lastly, Defendants argue that
protective orders do not offer adequate protection for highly sensitive test
data. According to Defendants, for example, attorneys who wish their clients to
present with credible cognitive dysfunction on testing, would be motivated to
breach test security to coach clients as to how to “beat the tests.” (VG Dec.,
¶ 11; Boone Dec., ¶¶ 19-24; See also High Dec., ¶ 7.) Attorneys also
stand to benefit financially by not abiding by protective orders in that they
can dramatically increase the value of their cases if their clients can
successfully feign brain injury over and above any other claimed injuries.
(Id.) However, these are only hypothetical situations, as nothing before the
Court suggests that any attorney has engaged in such misconduct. 
Conclusion 
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’
Motion to Compel Mental Examination of Plaintiff is GRANTED but limited as
follows: The
Court orders the parties to meet and confer to draft a stipulated protective
order confining the scope of disclosure and use of the raw test data and
audio-recording of the interview and examination so that it may be properly
used by Plaintiff’s counsel to consult with Plaintiff’s own experts and to
conduct cross-examination of Defendants’ experts. The protective order should
include instructions to destroy the material at the conclusion of the matter.
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.  
 
 