 On February 22, 2022, Alexander Habrich, 3761444 Canada, Inc., Dunn Consulting, and Lawrence Mortorff filed the operative Second Amended Cross-Complaint (“SACC”) against Cross-Defendants Spinning Gold, LLC (“SG”), Timothy Bogart, Gary Randall, Jessica Martins, Hero Artists, Hero Entertainment, Inc., and 9388-3132 Quebec, Inc. for (1) breach of contract, (2) declaratory relief, (3) common counts, (4) fraud, (5) securities fraud, (6) breach of contract, and (7) declaratory relief.   The SACC relates to “the rushed investment of over $2.8 Million towards the production of a [film, Spinning Gold], based upon false representations to the investor regarding the existence of financing for the Picture to cover a more than $22 Million total budget. When the promised financing did not appear, production was stopped, never to resume, resulting in total losses for the investor and others. [ ] Habrich and the Habrich Company seek compensatory damages for breach of their agreement to invest more than $2 Million in the Picture. In addition, they seek to enforce their rights to foreclose upon collateral consisting of the Picture and related rights.”  (SACC ¶¶ 1-2.) Cross-Complainants now seek to compel further responses to their requests for production propounded on Cross-Defendants Spinning Gold, LLC and Timothy Bogart. The discovery at issue primarily relates to financing and communications pertaining to the subject film.  Cross-Defendants objected on the basis of privilege, vagueness, confidentiality, and burden.  With respect to the privilege objections, a privilege log should be produced.  The remaining objections lack merit.  Further responses should be provided within thirty days.   Cross-Defendants state their supplemental production will be completed soon.  The Court orders that the production be completed within 30 days.  The Court will require that Cross-Defendants identify which documents correspond to each request.  This should also be done completely for the current production of documents.   The Motions to Compel are granted.  Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 