This is an employment action.  Defendant California Physicians’ Service seeks to seal paragraph 15 of Plaintiff Durant McLeod's initial Complaint.  Defendant contends that this paragraph improperly reveals protected health information in violation of HIPAA and CMIA.Unless confidentiality is required by law, court records are presumed to be open to public review.  (Cal. Rules of Court 2.550(c); see also Cal. Const., art. I, § 3, subd. (b)(1) [“The people have the right of access to information concerning the conduct of the people’s business”].)  “The court may order that a record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d); see also NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v. Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1217-1218.)HIPAA defines “[i]ndividually identifiable health information” as “any information, including demographic information collected from an individual that ... [¶] (A) is created or received by a health care provider, health plan, employer, or health care clearinghouse; and [¶] (B) relates to the past, present, or future physical or mental health or condition of an individual, the provision of health care to an individual, or the past, present, or future payment for the provision of health care to an individual, and—[¶] (i) identifies the individual; or [¶] (ii) with respect to which there is a reasonable basis to believe that the information can be used to identify the individual.”  (42 U.S.C. § 1320d(6).)  Under HIPAA, wrongfully obtaining or disclosing individually identifiable health information is subject to punishment.  (42 U.S.C. § 1320d-6.)Paragraph 15 of the Complaint identifies five individuals.  With respect to the first three individuals, there is no overriding interest that would support a sealing order because there is no protected health information.  Indeed, no information is provided about these individuals other than to say that they are customers of or associated with Blue Shield.  There is no specific information about these individuals’ policies, their health conditions, or their payments for medical services.  Further, one of these individuals is merely identified as “Susan”, and it is not probable that any person could actually identify “Susan” from what was provided.  On the other hand, the Court will redact the names of the last two individuals (and their financial advisor) mentioned.  This is because these individuals were identified in connection with the fact that they protested fraudulent medical payments.  As discussed, HIPAA protects information relating to payments for medical services.  Sealing would be the only way to protect this confidential information and the sealing is narrowly tailored because it pertains only to the identity of these two individuals.In sum, the Motion to Seal is granted in part as set forth herein.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 