This is an action in which Plaintiff Babak Zarabian alleges that the Defendants cut him out of a partnership deal relating to the “Zanna” family of corporate entities.  On September 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed the Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of fiduciary duty, (3) accounting, (4) money had and received, (5) negligence, (6) intentional misrepresentation, (7) negligent misrepresentation, (8) unjust enrichment, and (9) promissory estoppel.Defendants Adelanto Warehousing, LLC, DKNK Holdings LLC, and SSZS Holdings LLC now separately demur to the entirety of the TAC for failure to state sufficient facts.When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)Here, every cause of action is premised on Defendants having entered into an oral agreement to partner and invest in a cannabis venture.  These claims are also premised on misrepresentations as to an ownership stake and profit distributions.  This agreement and the misrepresentations are alleged to have occurred on “or around May 16, 2018”.  (TAC ¶ 48.)  The Court takes judicial notice of the California Secretary of State’s records.  Defendant Adelanto Warehousing, LLC was formed in August 2019.  Defendants DKNK Holdings LLC and SSZS Holdings LLC were formed in December 2019.  Therefore, it is not apparent how Defendants were involved in entering into an oral contract and fiduciary relationship in May 2018 or how they could have made misrepresentations aimed at inducement at that time. Therefore, the Demurrers are sustained.  Leave to amend is to be argued.  Moving parties to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.