 Case Number:  23STCV24236    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November 22, 2024                                       TRIAL
DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Emaza Gibson v. Jason Derulo, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV24236
 





















 
MOTION
TO VACATE GRANTING OF DEFENDANT JASON DERULO AND ATLANTIC RECORDING
CORPORATION’S MOTION TO DISMISS BASED ON C.C.P. 473(B) FOR COUNSEL’S LACK OF
KNOWLEDGE OF NEW YORK’S EMPLOYMENT LAW WILL NOT PROTECT PLAINTIFF
 
MOTION
TO DISMISS PURSUANT TO CODE CIV. PROC. § 410.30
 
 DEFENDNANT FUTURE HISTORY’S DEMURRER WITHOUT
MOTION TO STRIKE
      


 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
Plaintiff Emaza Gibson (Gibson or Plaintiff) is an artist.  Defendant Jason Derulo (Derulo) is a musical
artist signed with major record label Atlantic Recording Corporation
(Atlantic).  Derulo also owns the record
label Future History, Inc. (Future History). 
Plaintiff alleges as follows in the complaint.  In or around August of 2021, Derulo contacted
Gibson about an opportunity to become a successful musician.  Thereafter, Gibson entered into agreements
with Derulo, Atlantic, and Future History for the purpose of creating a mixtape
and an album.  Gibson was also to create
a single record featuring Derulo.  
 
In or around September of 2021, Gibson began working with
Derulo to create her album under the Future History label.  Throughout the working relationship, Derulo
was difficult to communicate with, made unwanted sexual advances towards Gibson,
and treated her with hostility.  After an
incident where Derulo aggressively approached Plaintiff and berated her for
arriving late to a recording session, Gibson’s mother and manager, Sandra Bales
(Bales) contacted Derulo’s manager, Frank Harris (Harris) about the
incident.  Harris acknowledged the
incident and said there was nothing to do.  Gibson also contacted Atlantic Executive Vice
President Anton Ben-Horin (Ben-Horin) to discuss the hostility she felt from
Derulo and difficulties communicating with Derulo.  Ben-Horn acknowledged Derulo’s behavior but
ultimately did nothing to address Gibson’s concerns.  On September 6, 2022, Atlantic and Future
History terminated the agreement with Gibson. 
This lawsuit followed.
 
Procedural Background
 
Gibson filed a Complaint on October 5, 2023.  
 
On February 1, 2024, Gibson filed the operative First
Amended Complaint (FAC) against Derulo, Future History, Atlantic, and Harris.[1]  The FAC alleges the following causes of
action: 
 
1.     
Quid Pro Quo Sexual Harassment
2.     
Failure to Prevent and/or Remedy
Harassment 
3.     
Retaliation in Violation of FEHA
4.     
Sexual Harassment in Violation of
the Unruh Civil Rights Act 
5.     
Intimidation and Violence in
Violation of the Ralph Civil Rights Act
6.     
Breach of Contract
7.     
Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealing
8.     
Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress
9.     
Negligent Infliction of Emotional
Distress
 
Before the court are three motions: (1) Plaintiff’s Motion
to Vacate Granting of Derulo and Atlantic’s Motion to Dismiss Based on CCP
Section 473(b); (2) Future History’s Motion to Dismiss Pursuant to Code Civ.
Proc. §410.30; and (3) Future History’s Demurrer to the FAC.
 
The court addresses each in turn. 
 
II.        MOTION TO VACATE
 
A.   
Relevant
Background
 
On March 15, 2024, Derulo and Atlantic filed a Motion to
Dismiss Pursuant to the Code Civ. Proc. § 410.30.  
 
On April 19, 2024, the motion was heard and taken under
submission.  On April 19, 2024, the court
granted Derulo and Atlantic’s Motion to Dismiss pursuant to a forum selection
clause in the agreements providing that New York law governed any disputes
related to the agreements.
 
            On July 11,
2024, Plaintiff filed this Motion to Vacate the court’s April 19, 2024, order pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) section 473(b).  
 
            On November
8, 2024, Defendants filed an opposition.
 
            On November
15, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
B.    
Legal
Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b)
provides that a court may “relieve a party or his or her legal representative
from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.”¿ In
addition, a court must vacate a default or dismissal when a motion for relief
under Section 473, subdivision (b) is filed timely and accompanied by an
attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence,
surprise or neglect “unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was
not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise or
neglect.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)¿¿¿ 
 
The party or the legal representative must seek such relief
“within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(b); see Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 980 [“because more
than six months had elapsed from the entry of default, and hence relief under
section 473 was unavailable”]; People v. The North River Ins. Co. (2011)
200 Cal.App.4th 712, 721 [motion for relief under section 473 must be brought
“within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months”].)¿¿¿ 
 
C.    
Application
 
Plaintiff brings this motion for an order vacating the
court’s April 19, 2024, order granting Derulo and Atlantic’s motion to dismiss
based on forum non conveniens.  Plaintiff
seeks relief because counsel believed erroneously that Plaintiff could pursue
her employment claims in New York.  As
Plaintiff’s counsel explains, he did not know or understand that under New York
law Plaintiff, who is a Los Angeles resident, would not be able to avail
herself of New York’s employment law protections un New York City Human Rights
Law (NYCHRL) or New York State Human Rights Law.  “[N]onresidents of the city and state must
plead and prove that the alleged discriminatory conduct had an impact within
those respective boundaries.” (Hoffman v. Parade Publs. (2010) 15 N.Y.
3d 285, 289 (Hoffman).)  Here,
Plaintiff is a resident in the County of Los Angeles, State of California, and
has no intention of moving to New York in the future.  (Gibson Decl., ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff argues enforcing the forum
selection clause would diminish Plaintiff’s employment rights and doing so would
be unreasonable and unfair.  
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s counsel’s ignorance of New York
law does not constitute  excusable
neglect.  Defendants further contend that
the Hoffman case does not preclude Plaintiff from pressing her FEHA
employment claims in New York as the Hoffman case involved claims under the NYCHRL
and New York Human Rights Law, which claims Plaintiff never asserted.
 
Both parties miss the mark. 
In examining whether the forum selection clause should be enforced, the court
considered whether enforcement of the clause would be unreasonable as to
Plaintiff’s FEHA claims.  The court
concluded it would not, stating:
 
“As
discussed above, Plaintiff argues and concedes there was no employment
Agreement.  Plaintiff’s argument fails
for the simple reason that she fails to establish an employment relationship
existed between the parties.  FEHA
therefore does not apply.  Further, for
this reason, the burden does not reverse to Moving Defendants.  Plaintiff cannot (and does not) argue that
the enforcement of the forum selection clause would result in the diminution of
her unwaivable FEHA rights when she has not established the requisite basis for
a FEHA claim.”
 
(Minute Order, 4/16/24.) 
In other words, enforcement of the forum selection clause would not
result in a waiver of Plaintiff’s FEHA claims because she did not establish the
existence of an employment relationship in the first instance.  Plaintiff does not show she has a viable FEHA
claim.  Enforcement of the clause here
would not result in the diminution of employment rights, which she does not
have, or a waiver of a claim, which she does not have.  Plaintiff does not address this portion of
the court’s April 19, 2024, order.[2]  Further, there is nothing in Hoffman
which would direct a different result.
 
D.   
Conclusion
 
Accordingly,
the Motion to Vacate is DENIED.
 
Defendants
to give notice.
 
III.      MOTION TO DISMISS
 
A.   
Relevant
Background 
 
On May 3, 2024, Future History filed this Motion to Dismiss
Pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 410.30.
 
On July 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.
 
On July 17, 2024, Future History filed a reply.
 
B.    
Legal
Standard
 
When a court upon motion of a party or its own motion finds
that in the interest of substantial justice an action should be heard in a
forum outside this state, the court must stay or dismiss the action in whole or
in part on any conditions that may be just. (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.30, subd.
(a).)  This principle is the codification
of the firmly established forum non conveniens doctrine, which simply
provides that a court may resist imposition upon its jurisdiction even when
jurisdiction is authorized by the letter of a general venue statute.  (Great Northern R. Co. v Superior Court
(1970) 12 Cal.App.3d 105, 108-110.)  The doctrine allows the court to
decline to exercise the jurisdiction it has over a transitory cause of action
when it believes that the action may be more appropriately and justly tried
elsewhere.  (Stangvik v. Shiley, Inc.
(1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 751.) 
 
A defendant may enforce a forum selection clause by bringing
a motion pursuant to California’s forum non conveniens statutes, because
these statutes “are the ones which generally authorize a trial court to decline
jurisdiction when unreasonably invoked and provide a procedure for the motion.”
 (Global Financial Distributors Inc.
v. Superior Court (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 179, 186.)  A motion to dismiss for forum non
conveniens “based on a forum selection clause is a special type of forum
non conveniens motion.  The factors
that apply generally to a forum non conveniens motion do not control in
a case involving a mandatory forum selection clause.”  (Berg v. MTC Electronics Technologies Co. (1998)
61 Cal.App.4th 349, 358.) 
 
On a motion to dismiss for forum non conveniens
pursuant to a mandatory forum selection clause, the only issues for the court’s
consideration are (1) whether the forum selection clause is indeed mandatory,
as opposed to permissive; (2) whether the forum selection clause covers the
claims in the case; and (3) whether the forum selection clause is
“unreasonable.”  (See Berg, supra, 61
Cal.App.4th at pp. 358-359.) 
 
            b.  Judicial Notice
 
            Future
History request judicial notice of the following exhibits:
 
1.     
Portions of the Artist Agreement
between Plaintiff and Future History, Inc.
2.     
Portions of the Short Form Agreement
between Future History and Atlantic Recording Corporation.
3.     
Portions of the Recording and Other
Rights Agreement, which was attached as exhibit A to the Short Form Agreement.
4.     
Portions of the Artist Inducement
Agreement which was attached as Exhibit B to the Short Form Agreement.
 
The court previously granted this request in connection to
Derulo and Atlantic’s Motion to Dismiss.[3]  (See Minute Order, 4/16/24.)
 
c.  Application
 
            Future
History moves to dismiss Gibson’s case for forum non conveniens.  The motion is brought to enforce a New York
forum selection clause in various agreements entered into on February 15, 2022
between Gibson, Future History, and Atlantic.  The agreements are comprised of (1) an Artist
Agreement between Gibson and Future History; (2) the Short Form Agreement
between Future History and Atlantic; (3) Recording and Other Rights Agreement,
which was attached as exhibit A to the Short Form Agreement; and (4) the Artist
Inducement Agreement (“Induce Agreement”), attached as exhibit B to the Short
Form Agreement (collectively, the “Agreements”).  
 
            The Artist
Agreement and Inducement Agreement each provide that they are governed by New
York law, and that the federal or state courts located in New York County have
sole jurisdiction of any action related to the Agreements.  Gibson signed both agreements with the forum
selection clause.  The Artist Agreement
also provides that Gibson had the opportunity to consult with independent
consult.  The motion is brought under
Code of Civil Procedure section 410.30.[4]  It is identical to Derulo and Atlantic’s
Motion to Dismiss.
 
When a court upon motion of a party or its own motion finds
that in the interest of substantial justice an action should be heard in a
forum outside this state, the court must stay or dismiss the action in whole or
in part on any conditions that may be just.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 410.30, subd. (a).)  
 
A defendant may enforce a forum selection clause by bringing
a motion pursuant to California’s forum non conveniens statutes, because
these statutes “are the ones which generally authorize a trial court to decline
jurisdiction when unreasonably invoked and provide a procedure for the motion.”
 (Global Financial Distributors Inc.
v. Superior Court (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 179, 186.)  A motion to dismiss for forum non
conveniens “based on a forum selection clause is a special type of forum
non conveniens motion.  The factors
that apply generally to a forum non conveniens motion do not control in
a case involving a mandatory forum selection clause.”  (Berg v. MTC Electronics Technologies Co. (1998)
61 Cal.App.4th 349, 358.) 
 
On a motion to dismiss for forum non conveniens
pursuant to a mandatory forum selection clause, the only issues for the court’s
consideration are (1) whether the forum selection clause is indeed mandatory,
as opposed to permissive; (2) whether the forum selection clause covers the
claims in the case; and (3) whether the forum selection clause is
“unreasonable.”  (See Berg, supra, 61
Cal.App.4th at pp. 358-359.) 
 
Here, the court has already found the forum selection clause
to be (1) mandatory, (2) inclusive of Plaintiff’s claims, and (3) fair and
reasonable to enforce.  (See Minute
Order, 4/19/24.). In opposition, Plaintiff argues the Hoffman case,
discussed above, directs a denial of the motion to dismiss because dismissing
the action would result in the loss of her FEHA claims and leave her without
any employment claims in New York.  However, Plaintiff again does not contend with
the threshold issue: whether Plaintiff and Defendants entered into an
employment contract.  Plaintiff previously
argued the Agreements are not employment contracts.  If as the Plaintiff argues, the Agreements do
not create an employer-employee relationship, then there is no employment
relationship between the parties.  FEHA
therefore does not apply.  Plaintiff
cannot argue that the enforcement of the forum selection clause would result in
the diminution of her unwaivable FEHA rights when she has not established the requisite
basis for a FEHA claim.
 
            d. Conclusion
 
            The Motion
to Dismiss is GRANTED.  The First Amended
Complaint is DISMISSED as to Defendant Future History, Inc.  
 
            Moving
party to give notice. 
 
III.       DEMURRER
 
On May 3, 2024, Future History filed a demurrer to the FAC.  Given the court’s ruling on Future History’s
Motion to Dismiss, the court does not reach its demurrer to the FAC. 
 
IV.       DISPOSITIONS        
            1.
Plaintiff Emaza Gibson’s Motion to Vacate is Denied.  Defendants to give notice.
2. Defendant
Future History’s Motion to Dismiss is Granted.  Moving parties to give notice.
            3. Defendant
Future History’s Demurrer is Moot.  


Dated:   November 22,
2024                           




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            
 
 


