  Case Number:  21STCP02300    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  85 
Farhad Nowzari, M.D. v.
Torrance Memorial Medical Center Health Care Foundation, et al., 21STCP02300
Tentative decision on motion for attorney’s fees:  granted



 
 
            Respondents
Memorial Medical Center (“Torrance”), erroneously sued as Board of Trustees of
Torrance (“Board”); and its Medical Staff, erroneously sued as the Medical
Executive Committee of the Medical Staff of Hospital (“MEC”), move for an award of $84,892.57 in attorney fees and costs on appeal, and for the instant fee
motion, from Petitioner Farhad Nowzari (“Nowzari”).
            The
court has read and considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply, and renders
the following tentative decision. 
 
            A. Statement of the Case
            1.
Petition
            Petitioner
Nowzari commenced this proceeding on July 16, 2021, alleging causes of action
for traditional and administrative mandamus and seeking injunctive relief
against Board, MEC, Torrance Health Care Foundation (“Hospital”), and Torrance
Memorial Integrated Physicians, LLC (“Integrated Physicians”).  The verified Petition alleges in pertinent
part as follows.
            Hospital’s
medical staff referred three cases of patient deaths following surgery for peer
review to Nowzari’s former partner Dr. Garrett Matsunaga (“Matsunaga”).  Matsunaga was the Hospital’s Chief of Urology.  Although Matsunaga recognized the appearance
of impropriety in reviewing his former partner’s work, he insisted on doing it
anyway.  Matsunaga reviewed the three
cases, consisting of 3000 pages, in only 1.5 hours and concluded that the
deaths were due to Nowzari’s negligence and poor judgment.  According to Matsunaga, Nowzari suddenly had become
a danger to patient safety if allowed to remain on staff.  
            To
avoid the appearance of bias, Matsunaga then selected Dr. Stratton to serve as pro
tempore chair of the Urology Surgery Subcommittee (“Urology Subcommittee”,
sometimes “Subcommittee”).  Timothy Lesser,
M.D. (“Lesser”), a doctor who reported Nowzari, and Matsunaga were present at
the Urology subcommittee meeting, and they led the interrogation of Nowzari about
the three cases without advising him of the issues or giving him an opportunity
to prepare.  
            The
medical staff’s lawyer, John Harwell, Esq. (“Harwell”), selected a reviewer,
Thomas Rosenthal, M.D. (“Rosenthal”), and informed him of the opinion reached
by the Urology subcommittee and its characterization of Nowzari as reckless and
dangerous.  Rosenthal was provided a
select set of records to review, which he used to recommend that the Hospital medical
staff suspend Nowzari’s privileges. 
            The
MEC considered the matter on August 22, 2018. 
At this point, Nowzari hired legal counsel and obtained an outside
review from urologist Soroush Ramin, M.D. (“Ramin”) who could not find a
credible basis for the criticisms.  The MEC
withdrew the summary suspension and proposed a complete competency evaluation
done by the Physician Assessment and Clinical Education (“PACE”) program at the
University of California, San Diego. 
Nowzari also could only assist in surgeries, and hospital consultations
would require another practitioner as the primary physician.  
            On
August 24, 2018, the MEC modified the summary suspension of Nowzari’s
privileges.  MEC restricted Nowzari’s
clinical privileges to assisting in surgery and providing inpatient consultations,
both of which would require co-management by another urologist.  Nowzari was recommended to the PACE program
for assessment of competency.  
            On
September 19, 2018, Nowzari demanded a hearing from the MEC decision.  James Lahana, Esq. (“Lahana”) was selected as
the neutral arbitrator but made no disclosures regarding any past dealings or
connections that may invoke a perception of partiality.  Lahana’s decision is tainted with the
appearance of impropriety.   
            On
February 20, 2019, PACE issued its report to the MEC and not Nowzari, even
though he paid half the costs.  PACE
concluded that Nowzari is competent but observed that Nowzari’s performance on
Microcog cognitive screening evaluation indicated a need for further
psychological evaluation.   PACE issued a category 3 classification of
competency. 
            On
March 29, 2019, the MEC accepted PACE’s recommendations.  On May 16, 2019, PACE issued an amended
report stating that Nowzari met the criteria for a higher competency
classification of 2.  
            In
December 2019, Nowzari turned in a neurocognitive/fitness-for-duty assessment from
his own professional which stated that he is a competent, skillful, and
well-qualified urologist fit to practice his profession.  Respondents refused to accept the report.  
            On
March 2, 2021, Lahana issued his decision and found that the MEC’s actions were
warranted and necessary.  The decision
largely adopted the MEC’s position without addressing many of the factual
issues or evidence to the contrary.  
            Nowzari
appealed the decision to the Hospital’s Board. 
On June 16, 2021, the Board issued its decision, finding substantial
evidence supported the arbitrator’s determination.  The decision marginalizes or ignores the
compelling facts, evidence, and injustice. 
 
            2. Course of Proceedings
            On July 21, 2021,
Nowzari served the Petition, Summons, and moving papers on Respondent
Integrated Physicians by substitute service. 
He served Respondent Hospital by substituted service on July 26, 2021
and served Respondents MEC and Board by substituted service on July 28, 2021.
            On September 10, 2021,
Respondents Board and MEC filed an Answer. 
They filed another Answer on November 29, 2021.
            On September 30, 2021, Respondents
Hospital and Integrated Physicians filed a demurrer with a motion to strike.  Respondents Hospital and Integrated Physicians
subsequently withdrew the demurrer.   On December 9, 2021, Nowzari filed a request
for dismissal without prejudice for Hospital and Integrated Physicians.  The court entered dismissal on December 13,
2021.
            On May 26, 2022, the
court denied the Petition.  Judgement was
entered on June 10, 2022.
            On June 22, 2022,
Nowzari filed notice of an appeal of the court’s decision.
            On October 24, 2022, the
court awarded Respondents $47,513.67 in attorney fees. 
On May 2, 2024, the
court of appeals affirmed this court’s decisions denying the Petition and
awarding attorney fees. 
 
            B. Applicable Law
            “[A]s a
general rule, attorney fees are not recoverable as costs unless they are
authorized by statute or agreement.”  People ex rel. Dept. of
Corporations v. Speedee Oil Change Systems, Inc., (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th
424, 429. 
            Per
Business and Professions Code (“B&P Code”) section 805(b)(2) and (b)(3), the
chief of staff of a medical or professional staff or other chief executive
officer, medical director, or administrator of any peer review body and the
chief executive officer or administrator of any licensed health care facility
or clinic shall file a report (“805 report”) with the relevant agency within 15
days after the effective date of (1) the termination or revocation of a
licentiate’s membership, staff privileges, or employment; or (2) any new
restrictions on staff privileges, membership, or employment for a cumulative
total of 30 days or more for any 12-month period, for a medical disciplinary
cause or reason.  B&P Code §§
805(b)(2), 805(b)(3).  
In
any suit brought to challenge an action thereby taken or a restriction thereby imposed,
the court shall award to a substantially prevailing party the cost of the suit,
including a reasonable attorney’s fee, if the other party’s conduct in
bringing, defending, or litigating the suit was frivolous, unreasonable,
without foundation, or in bad faith. 
B&P Code §809.9.  A defendant
has not substantially prevailed if the plaintiff obtains an award for damages
or permanent injunctive or declaratory relief. 
Id.  A plaintiff has not
substantially prevailed if the plaintiff does not obtain such an award.  Id. 
The use of the word “shall” indicates that the award is mandatory.  Smith v. Selma Comm. Hosp. (“Smith”)
(2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 1, 7, 26.
            “Frivolous,”
“unreasonable,” “without foundation,” and “bad faith” are separate grounds for
an award of fees.  Id. at 29-30.  There is partial overlap between the terms “without
foundation” and “unreasonable” such that a party's litigation conduct may
qualify as both.  Id. at 33.  
“Without
foundation” means “baseless, groundless, or without support.”  Id. at 30-31.  The foundation for an assertion of fact is
evidence, whereas the foundation for a contention of law is legal authority.  Id. at 31.  The record of the proceeding will contain a
party's (1) factual assertions and references to the evidence that supports
those assertions and (2) legal positions and the authority cited to support
those positions.  Id. at 31.  Based on the nature of the inquiry and the
record available, the existence of supporting evidence and authority can be
determined as a matter of objective fact. 
Id. at 31.  
            To
determine if a plaintiff’s conduct was “reasonable” under B&P Code section
809.9, the court should ask whether any reasonable attorney would have thought
the claim tenable based on the facts the plaintiff knew when they filed or
maintained the action.  Id. at
32-33.  Whether a party’s conduct in
litigating the suit is reasonable depends in part on the positions it took
during the litigation.  Id. at
26.  “[C]onduct in litigating the suit”
includes acts taken on specific issues and motions.  Id. at 29.  
            The prevailing party bears the burden of proof as to the
reasonableness of any fee claim.  CCP §1033.5(c)(5).  This burden
requires competent evidence as to the nature and value of the services
rendered.  Martino v. Denevi, (1986) 182 Cal.App.3d 553, 559. 
“Testimony of an attorney as to the number of hours worked on a particular case
is sufficient evidence to support an award of attorney fees, even in the
absence of detailed time records.” Id.  “‘The reasonable market
value of the attorney's services is the measure of a reasonable hourly
rate.  This standard applies regardless of whether the attorneys claiming
fees charge nothing for their services, charge at below-market or discounted
rates, represent the client on a straight contingent fee basis, or are in-house
counsel.’”  Center For Biological Diversity v. County of San Bernardino,
(2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 603, 619 (citations omitted). 
            In determining whether the requested attorney’s fees are
reasonable, the court’s “first step involves the lodestar figure—a calculation
based on the number of hours reasonably expended multiplied by the lawyer’s
hourly rate.  The lodestar figure may then be adjusted, based on
consideration of facts specific to the case, in order to fix the fee at the
fair market value for the legal services provided.”  Gorman v.
Tassajara Development Corp., (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 770, 774 (“Gorman”). 
In adjusting the lodestar figure, the court may consider the nature and
difficulty of the litigation, the amount of money involved, the skill required
and employed to handle the case, the attention given, the success or failure,
and other circumstances in the case. EnPalm LLC v. Teitler, (2008) 162
Cal.App.4th 770, 774; see also PLCM Group, Inc. v. Drexler,
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095. 
 
            C. Statement of Facts
            1.
Respondents’ Evidence
            Nowzari brought this lawsuit against
Torrance and MEC.  Pedroza Decl.,
¶2.  Cole Pedroza LLP (the “Firm”) was
retained to represent Respondents against Nowzari’s claims, including through
appeal.  Pedroza Decl., ¶2.  Respondents agreed to pay the Firm’s
professional fees and costs, as billed, 
and in fact has caused those fees to be paid.  Pedroza Decl., ¶3.  Cassidy Davenport, Esq. (“Davenport”) and
Kenneth Pedroza, Esq. (“Pedroza”) were the attorneys responsible for the
representation of Respondents.  Pedroza Decl.,
¶4.  
 
            a. Kenneth Pedroza
            Pedroza is a graduate of Stanford
University and of the University of Arizona College of Law.  Pedroza Decl., ¶5.  He has been practicing law in Los Angeles,
California since 1996.  Pedroza Decl.,
¶5.  From 1996 to 2000, Pedroza was an
associate at the law firm of Breidenbach, Buckley, Huchting, Halm &
Hamblet.  Pedroza Decl., ¶5.  From 2000 to 2006, he was an associate and
then partner at the law firm Thelen Reid & Priest, formerly Thelen Marrin
Johnson & Bridges.  Pedroza Decl.,
¶5.  
Since 2006, Pedroza has
been a founding and named partner of Cole Pedroza LLP.  Pedroza Decl., ¶5.  For the last 17 years, he has also been
certified as an appellate specialist by the State Bar of California, Board of
Legal Specialization.  Pedroza Decl.,
¶5.  His legal experience includes in
excess of 100 decisions from state and federal appeals or writ proceedings, in
addition to over 20 civil and criminal jury trials, court trials, and
arbitration hearings.  Pedroza Decl.,
¶5.  Pedroza has argued numerous times in
the California Supreme Court.  Pedroza Decl.,
¶5.  His time in this case was billed at
a reduced rate of $475 per hour.  Pedroza
Decl., ¶5.  
 
            b.
Cassidy Davenport
            Davenport
graduated from Arizona State University, College of Law.  Pedroza Decl., ¶6.  Since 2008, Davenport has been an associate
and then partner at Cole Pedroza LLP. 
Pedroza Decl., ¶6.  Since 2014,
she has been certified as an appellate specialist by the State Bar of
California, Board of Legal Specialization. 
Pedroza Decl., ¶6.  Davenport has
developed a particular proficiency in state appeals and writs.  Pedroza Decl., ¶6.  Many of her appellate matters have resulted
in favorable published decisions. 
Pedroza Decl., ¶6.  Davenport’s
time in this case was billed at a reduced rate of $475 per hour.  Pedroza Decl., ¶6.  
 
            c.
Matthew Levinson
            Matthew
Levinson, Esq. (“Levinson”) graduated from Cornell University in 1991 and from
UCLA School of Law in 1994.  Pedroza Decl.,
¶7.  He is certified as an appellate
specialist by the State Bar of California, Board of Legal Specialization.  Pedroza Decl., ¶7.  From 1994 to 1999 he was an associate at the
law firm Thelen Reid & Priest, formerly Thelen Marrin Johnson Bridges.  Pedroza Decl., ¶7.  He has been an associate at Cole Pedroza LLP
since its inception in 2006 and has been a partner at the Firm since 2012.  Pedroza Decl., ¶7.  Levinson’s time in this case is billed at the
reduced rate of $475 per hour.  Pedroza Decl.,
¶7.  
 
            d.
Nayri Jilizian
            Nayri
Jilizian, Esq. (“Jilizian”) graduated from the University of Southern
California and Southwestern Law School. 
Pedroza Decl., ¶8.  She has
practiced law since 2012 and has been an associate at Cole Pedroza LLP since
2022.  Pedroza Decl., ¶8.  Jilizian’s time in this case is billed at the
reduced rate of $390 per hour.  Pedroza Decl.,
¶8.
 
            e.
Billing Practices 
            The
Firm bills clients for its attorneys’ time at an hourly rate, in increments of
one-tenth of an hour.  Pedroza Decl.,
¶9.  It also bills clients for costs it
incurs on their behalf.  Pedroza Decl.,
¶9.  It is the Firm’s practice that each
timekeeper working on a matter makes a daily time record of the tasks he or she
performs, including a narrative of the work performed and the time expended
thereon.  Pedroza Decl., ¶10.  The time records are made at or near the time
of the acts, conditions, or events described therein.  Costs incurred on behalf of clients are also
recorded in the regular course of business at or near the time the costs are
incurred.  Pedroza Decl., ¶10.  The time records and cost records are then
incorporated into billing statements, which are generated and sent to clients
monthly.  Pedroza Decl., ¶11.  The billing statements reflect the amount of
fees and costs incurred by clients, in addition to the narratives of each
timekeeper’s work.  Pedroza Decl.,
¶12.  
            
            f.
Attorney Fees 
            Respondents
incurred $74,618.57 in fees in defending against Nowzari’s claims on appeal.  Pedroza Decl., ¶15, Ex. E.  This time began as of June, 2022, after the
first fee award in this matter.  Pedroza Decl.,
¶15.  Those fees include: (1) review and
assessment of the appellate record; (2) review and assessment of Nowzari’s opening
brief; (3) miscellaneous tasks, research and strategy for Respondents’ brief
and the answer to Nowzari’s petition for review to the California Supreme Court;
(4) research, preparation and filing of proposed judgment, supplemental motion
for attorney’s fees, Respondents’ brief on appeal and answer to the petition
for review; (5) preparation for and attendance at oral argument; (6) review and
assessment of the appellate opinion; (7) review and assessment of the petition
for rehearing filed by Nowzari and review and assessment of Nowzari’s petition
for review; and (8) review, research, and drafting the answer to the petition
for review.  Pedroza Decl., ¶15.  
            Respondents
incurred $6,474 in fees in drafting this motion for attorneys’ fees on appeal
after Nowzari was unwilling to pay the Firm’s fees without such a motion.  Pedroza Decl., ¶16.  The Firm anticipates an additional five hours
to prepare a reply and three hours to prepare for and appear at the hearing on
the instant motion.  Davenport Decl., ¶12.  At Davenport’s $475 per hour rate, these
additional eight hours constitute $3800 in fees.   The total for the fee motion is $10,274.
Based on his experience in litigation and participation in
this case, Pedroza concludes that: (a) the tasks performed were reasonable and
necessary to the representation of Respondents in the appeal and petition for
review; (b) the time spent on those tasks was reasonable and necessary; and (c)
the hourly rates charged were reasonable and necessary.  Pedroza Decl., ¶19.  
 
            D. Analysis
            Respondents Torrance and MEC move for an award of $74,618.57 in attorney fees on
appeal, amended appeal costs of $1,072.30 (Suppl. Davenport Decl., ¶3), and
$10,274 for the instant fee motion, a total of $85,964.87.
 
            1.
Entitlement 
In
awarding attorney fees for the trial proceeding, the court noted that B&P
Code section 809.9 provides that the court shall award attorney’s fees
to a substantially prevailing party “if the other party’s conduct in bringing,
defending, or litigating the suit was frivolous, unreasonable, without
foundation, or in bad faith.”  There was
no question that the MEC is the prevailing party and that Nowzari’s conduct in
litigating the case lacked foundation and was unreasonable on the principal
ground raised (the ex parte issue), as well as on the substantial evidence
issue.  At most, Nowzari raised the
arbitrator disclosure issue without any legal analysis.  Nothing in the statute prevented the court
from parsing attorney’s fees on issues that lacked foundation from those that
had a foundation.  Giving Nowzari the
benefit of the doubt to avoid a chilling effect, the court awarded MEC two-thirds
of the requested $71,270.50, or $47,513.67.
The Court of Appeal affirmed the judgment, holding that the
denial of the Petition as well as the fee award were appropriate.  Davenport Decl., Ex. B.  The appellate court deferred to this court
for an award of attorney fees on appeal. 
Ex. B, p. 20, n.10.
Nowzari argues that Respondents made no showing or argument on
appeal that Nowzari’s appeal – as opposed to his trial court proceeding – was
frivolous, unreasonable, without foundation, or in bad faith.  The appellate court made no such finding
either, awarding only costs on appeal.  He
poses the question: Why were fees not requested, or ordered by the appellate
court, as a matter of right on remand along with the other costs of appeal?
Opp. at 8-9, 14.
            Respondents
correctly note (Mot. at 5-6) that a trial court’s attorney fee award, whether
awarded by contract or statute, includes attorney fees on appeal.  Morcos v. Board of Retirement, (“Marcos”)
(1990) 51 Cal.3d 924, 927.  B&P Code
section 809.9 does not preclude an award of attorney fees on appeal and Respondents
are entitled to recover them. 
            Nowzari
attempts to distinguish Marcos as a case where the California Supreme
Court interpreted the statute at issue, Govt. Code section 31536, as enacted to
place the government and pensioners on a level playing field and argues that
B&P Code section 809.9 is a penalty statute that does not justify simply
awarding attorney fees on appeal.  Opp.
at 15.  To conclude otherwise would chill
physicians from pursuing review of peer review decisions.  That is why Respondents did not seek, and the
appellate court did not award, attorney fees on appeal.  Opp. at 16.
            Nowzari
ignores the fact that this court found that his conduct in litigating the case
lacked foundation and was unreasonable on the principal ground raised (the ex
parte issue), as well as on the substantial evidence issue.  B&P Code  
§809.9.  The appellate court
upheld this finding.  Under Marcos,
a trial court’s award of attorney fees by statute, includes attorney fees on
appeal.  51 Cal.3d at 927.  No finding of a frivolous appeal need be made
to include attorney fees on appeal in this award.
            Respondents
are entitled to their appeal attorney fees incurred in defending against
Nowzari’s claims which lacked foundation and were unreasonable.
 
            2.
Reasonableness of Fees
            Respondents’
burden requires competent evidence as to the nature
and value of the services rendered.  Martino v. Denevi, (1986) 182
Cal.App.3d 553, 559.  “Testimony of an attorney as to the number of hours
worked on a particular case is sufficient evidence to support an award of
attorney fees, even in the absence of detailed time records.” Id. 
            “In challenging attorney fees as excessive because too
many hours of work are claimed, it is the burden of the challenging party to
point to the specific items challenged, with a sufficient argument and
citations to the evidence.  General arguments that fees claimed are
excessive, duplicative, or unrelated do not suffice.”  Lunada
Biomedical v. Nunez, (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 459, 488. 
Nowzari
does not challenge the rates charged by the Firm.   He
notes that the court retains discretion to discount block billing when the
practice prevents opposition from ascertaining what tasks are not
compensable.  Heritage Pacific
Financial v. Monroy, (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 972, 1010.  Nowzari notes that Respondents cryptically
offer the declarations of Pedroza and Davenport for six appeal matters and two
fee motion matters.  He questions the
combination of the appellate court and superior court time and argues that the
categories reflect duplicate time and time for an answer not requested by the
California Supreme Court.  He notes that
the Firm seeks 32 hours to prepare for appellate argument and then read the
appeal decision.  Finally, he argues that
this court only awarded 2/3 of the requested fees and the appellate court
confirmed that the did have a foundation for that portion.  Opp. at 18-21.
            As
with the initial fee motion, the court has discretion to discount fees based on
the fact that the moving party block bills.  
Respondents’ counsel’s block billing summary breaks down the hours
claimed into six tasks, and it shows the total amount of work that each
attorney or paralegal performed.  Pedroza
Decl., Ex. E.  While the MEC could have
been more specific, there is nothing wrong with block billing per se.  The court finds the hours incurred, and the
resulting $74,618.57
in attorney fees on appeal, to be reasonable. 
It seems plain that the Firm spent most of the identified 32
hours preparing for appellate argument, not reading the appeal decision. There is no basis
to reduce the award by 1/3 as Nowzari fails to show that he prevailed on any appeal
issue. 
            Prior
to filing the fee motion, Respondents’ counsel attempted to resolve the issue.  Those efforts were unsuccessful, and Respondents’
request for an additional $10,274 for this motion, the reply, and to attend the
hearing is reasonable.  Davenport Decl.,
¶12.  Nowzari does not dispute the amended costs of
$1,072.30.
            
            E.
Conclusion
            The
motion for an additional $85,964.87 in attorney fees and costs on appeal, and for the instant
fee motion, is granted.  