  Case Number:  21STCV43583    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Claremont Unified School District’s Motion  to Direct Compliance with Business Records Subpoena on Meta Platforms, Inc. Seeking  Electronically Stored Information Related to Plaintiff’s Social Media Posts Respondent: Plaintiff John SJ  Doe and Non-Party Meta Platforms, Inc. Non-Party Meta Platforms,  Inc.’s Unopposed Motion to Seal Respondent: NO OPPOSITION TENTATIVE RULING Defendant Claremont Unified School District’s Motion  to Direct Compliance with Business Records Subpoena on Meta Platforms, Inc.  Seeking Electronically Stored Information Related to Plaintiff’s Social Media  Posts is GRANTED. Non-Party Meta  Platforms, Inc. is ordered to serve the requested records on Defendant Claremont  Unified School District within twenty  (20) days of the issuance of this order. Non-Party Meta Platforms,  Inc.’s Unopposed Motion to Seal is GRANTED. BACKGROUND This  action arises from the sexual abuse of a high school student by school staff.  Defendant Brandy Wilborn was a teacher’s aide employed by Defendant Claremont  Unified School District (CUSD) at Claremont High School. Plaintiff John SJ Doe  was a student at Claremont High School. From December 2014 to May 2015, Wilborn  sexually assaulted, abused, molested, and harassed Doe. Wilborn was then  arrested in 2015 and pled no contest to unlawful sexual intercourse with a  minor. On  November 29, 2021, Doe filed a complaint for damages against CUSD, Wilborn, and  Does 1 through 50, alleging the following causes of action: (1) intentional  infliction of emotional distress against all defendants; (2) negligence against  CUSD and Does 1-50; (3) negligent supervision against CUSD and Does 1-50; (4)  negligent retention/hiring against CUSD and Does 1-50; (5) negligent failure to  train, warn, or educate against CUSD and Does 1-50; (6) breach of fiduciary  duty against all defendants; (7) constructive fraud pursuant to Civil Code,  section 1573 against all defendants; (8) sexual harassment pursuant to Civil  Code, section 51.9 against all defendants; (9) sexual harassment and abuse in  the educational setting pursuant to Education Code, section 220 against CUSD  and Does 1-50; (10) sexual battery against Wilborn; (11) gender violence  pursuant to Civil Code, section 52.4 against Wilborn; and (12) violation of  Penal Code, section 647.6, subdivision (a)(1) against Wilborn. On June 17,  2022, the Court sustained CUSD’s demurrer to the Complaint. On  September 6, 2022, Doe filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same  defendants alleging the same causes of action. On February 9, 2023, the Court  sustained CUSD’s demurrer to the FAC. On  March 1, 2023, Doe filed a Second Amended Complaint (SAC) against the same  defendants alleging the same causes of action. On July 24, 2023, the Court  sustained and overruled CUSD’s demurrer to the SAC in part without leave to  amend. On  February 9, 2024, CUSD filed the present motion. After obtaining ex parte  relief to file one of the motion’s exhibits under seal, CUSD refiled the motion  on April 25, 2024. On  June 11, 2024, CUSD filed a motion for summary judgment. On  June 20, 2024, Non-Party Meta Platforms, Inc. (Meta) filed the present motion  to seal. A  hearing on the present motions is set for July 16, 2024, along with a  post-mediation status conference/trial setting conference. CUSD’s motion for  summary judgment is set for August 27, 2024. ANALYSIS CUSD  moves to compel non-party Meta’s compliance with a deposition subpoena for data  from Doe’s Instagram account. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS Doe’s  motion. Legal  Standard A  party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party to the action may  obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or deposition subpoena  for production of business records. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010.) A  deposition subpoena may command: (1) only the attendance and testimony of the  deponent, (2) only the production of business records for copying, or (3) the  attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the production of business  records, other documents, electronically stored information, and tangible  things. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.) Service of a deposition subpoena shall  be done with sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the  deponent a reasonable opportunity to locate and produce any designated  documents and, where personal attendance is commanded, a reasonable time to  travel to the place of deposition. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (a).) Personal service of any deposition subpoena is effective to require a deponent  who is a resident of California to: personally appear and testify, if the  subpoena so specifies; to produce any specified documents; and to appear at a  court session if the subpoena so specifies. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220,  subd. (c).) If  a deponent fails to appear or produce requested documents for a deposition, the  deposing party may file a noticed motion to compel deponent’s compliance. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).) A deponent who disobeys a deposition subpoena  may also be punished for contempt without the necessity of a prior court order  court directing compliance. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.240.) A noncompliant  deponent may also be ordered to pay $500 to the deposing party in addition to  any damages the deposing party incurred as a result of the deponent’s failure  to attend the deposition. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.240, citing Code Civ. Proc.,  § 1992.) Discussion On December  7, 2023, CUSD served a deposition subpoena on Meta requesting the following  data from Doe’s Instagram account over a period from April 21, 2013 to 2020: (1)  all communications with or relating to Wilborn, (2) all communications referencing  Wilborn, (3) all photos posted by Doe, (4) all comments made by Doe, (5) all  references by Doe to psychological or emotional distress and treatment, and (6)  all posts by Doe referring to potential stressors related to emotional distress.  (Kostrenich Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A.) On December 12, 2023, Meta objected to the  subpoena on the grounds that the Stored Communications Act requires subpoenas  to be directed at the account user as opposed to the account service provider.  (Kostrenich Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B.) CUSD then proceeded with the present motion. In  response, Doe filed a notice of non-opposition stating Doe has no opposition to  the Court compelling Meta to comply with CUSD’s deposition subpoena. Meta has  also filed a notice of non-opposition, stating Meta does not oppose the  subpoena if the Court finds Doe lawfully consented to disclosure. But Meta  notes CUSD and Doe dispute the mode of production. While CUSD demands the  records be produced concurrently to both parties’ counsel, Doe demands the  records be first produced to Doe’s counsel who will then forward any responsive  records to CUSD. (Glickman Decl., ¶ 4-5.) But Doe has not made this request in  Doe’s notice of non-opposition. Because the Court finds Doe has lawfully  consented to the disclosure of Doe’s account data, CUSD is entitled to Meta’s  compliance with the deposition subpoena. Accordingly, the Court GRANTS CUSD’s  motion. In  a separate unopposed motion, Meta requests the Court seal the supporting  exhibits for its response to CUSD’s motion. To seal records, the Court must  expressly find “(1) [t]here exists an overriding interest that overcomes the  right of public access to the record; (2) [t]he overriding interest supports  sealing the record; (3) [a] substantial probability exists that the overriding  interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) [t]he proposed  sealing is narrowly tailored; and (5) [n]o less restrictive means exist to  achieve the overriding interest.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.550, subd. (d).) Here,  because the supporting exhibits contain identifying and personal information  for a minor victim of sexual assault, the court finds Doe’s privacy interests outweigh  the right of public access and support sealing the record. The court also finds  there is a substantial probability that Doe’s privacy interests would be  prejudiced if Doe’s personal information is published. Last, the court finds  the request is reasonably tailored to the exhibits that contain Doe’s personal  information and no less restrictive means exists to protect Doe’s privacy  interests. Accordingly,  the court GRANTS Meta’s motion to seal. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing,  CUSD’s motion to compel is GRANTED and Meta is ordered to provide all  records requested to CUSD within twenty (20) days of the issuance of this  order. Furthermore, Meta’s  motion to seal is GRANTED.