 Case Number:  23PSCP00435    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant City of Pomona’s Demurrer to Complaint
Respondent:  Hillview MHC, LLC
Defendant City of Pomona’s Motion to Strike portions
of the Complaint
Respondent:  Hillview MHC, LLC
TENTATIVE RULING
The motions are CONTINUED to permit additional
briefing by the parties.  The court
intends to set a briefing schedule and a new hearing date.
ANALYSIS
The court seeks
additional briefing from the parties on whether the exhaustion of remedies
doctrine required Petitioner (Hillview MHC) to apply for a variance and
conditional use permit before challenging the City’s ability to impose those
requirements pursuant to Government Code section 65943.
In this case, Hillview
MHC, a mobile home park, challenges the City’s failure to consider as complete their
subdivision conversion application. Petitioner claims the City failed to notify
it of any deficiencies in its application within thirty (30) days after submission
as mandated by the Permit Streamlining Act (PSA). (Gov. Code, § 65943.) While
the City eventually notified Petitioner that their application was incomplete
because they did not apply for a variance and conditional use permit, Petitioner
argues this notice was untimely pursuant to the PSA. Because the Government
Code section 65943, subdivision (a) states a development project application is
considered complete if the City fails to timely notify the Petitioner of any
deficiencies, the Petitioner seeks declaratory relief or a writ directing the
City to treat the Petitioner’s application as complete.
In the City’s
demurrer, the City argues Petitioner failed to exhaust administrative remedies
because the Petitioner failed to submit a formal application, failed to pay the
application fee, and failed to apply for the variance and conditional use
permit. Without addressing the merits, the court notes the parties do not specifically
address the applicability of Government Code section 65943 and whether the City
is no longer able to demand additional permits or fees if an untimely response was
made to Petitioner’s application. Accordingly, the court seeks additional
briefing which addresses whether Petitioner was still required to seek these
permits under the exhaustion of remedies doctrine.
The court
acknowledges the cases to which the City cites where the court held a plaintiff
was required to seek a variance before challenging the constitutionality of a
zoning ordinance. (Mountain View Chamber of Commerce v. City of Mountain
view (1978) 77 Cal.App.3d 82, 93-94; County of Alameda v. Superior Court
(2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 558, 567-568.) But it is unclear to the court if
these authorities demand the same result in cases where Petitioner is not
challenging the constitutionality of the zoning ordinances but rather the
legality of the City applying them to Petitioner when Government Code section
65943 requires the City to deem the application complete.
Furthermore,
Petitioner does not provide the court with legal authority for the argument that
administrative remedies cannot be duplicative. While Petitioner cites to a case
that states “an administrative remedy is exhausted only upon ‘termination of
all available, nonduplicative administrative review procedures,’” (Plantier
v. Ramona Municipal Water Dist. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 372, 382), Petitioner does
not provide the court with authority that analyzes whether an administrative
remedy is not required because it is duplicative.
The court intends
to set a briefing schedule for the parties to address the issues identified
above, along with a new hearing date.