 Case Number:  23VECV04939    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  W PARHAM ZIYARI,
et al. vs ESSEX WARNER CENTER, LP, et al.
 
DEFENDANT THE OAKS OF CALABASAS HOMEOWNERS
ASSOCIATION'S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFFS' VERIFIED THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Date of Hearing:        April
15, 2024                         Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        23VECV04939
 
Moving Party:            Defendants
Essex Warner Center, LP and Essex Management Corporation
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs Parham Ziyari and Saba Ziyari
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Ng Decl. ¶¶3-4.)  
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a landlord tenant
dispute.  On February 21, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed a complaint against Defendants Essex Warner Center, LP and
Essex Management Corporation for 1. Contractual and Tortious Breach of Implied
Warranty of Habitability; 2. Breach of the Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; 3.
Nuisance; 4. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; 5. Negligence; 6.
Negligent Hiring, Training, Supervision, and Retention; 7. Violation of Civ.
Code § 1940.2; 8. Violation of California Civil Code § 1942.5 (Retaliatory
Eviction); 9. Violation of L.A.M.C. §§ 45.33 and 151.33; 10. Violation of Welf.
& Inst. Code § 15610.30; 11. Fraud and Fraudulent Concealment; 12.
Violation of the Resolution of the Board of Supervisors of the County of Los
Angeles; 13. Premises Liability; and 14. Violation of Bus. & Prof. Code §
17200 et seq. Unfair, Unlawful, and Deceptive Business Practices. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants
Essex Warner Center LP and Essex Management Corporation’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED
WITH LEAVE TO AMEND, in part. Defendants’ Motion to Strike is MOOT. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Defendants Essex Warner Center, LP and
Essex Management Corporation demur to the fourth, seventh, tenth, eleventh, and
thirteenth causes of action in Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint on the
grounds each cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to support a claim
against Defendants and is too uncertain, vague and ambiguous to constitute a
cause of action against Defendants. 
 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress
 
Defendants demur to the fourth cause of
action for intentional infliction of emotional distress on the grounds none of
the alleged conduct is outrageous nor intentional. 
 
The elements of an intentional
infliction of emotional distress cause of action are: (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) intention to cause or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) severe
emotional suffering; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress. (See Moncada v. West Coast Quartz Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th
768, 780; Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.) To satisfy
the element of extreme and outrageous conduct, defendant’s conduct “‘must be so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
society.’” (Moncada, supra, 221 Cal.App.4th at 780 (quoting Tererice
v. Blue Cross of California (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883).)  
 
Defendants argue the allegations
against them do not amount to outrageous conduct nor does it amount to any
conduct that intended to harm Plaintiffs. Defendants contend courts have found no
extreme and outrageous conduct where landlord was alleged to have failed to
make repairs or do adequate maintenance. (See Rivera v. Johnson, 2022
Cal. Super. LEXIS 7718, *2; Gruver v. Ih2 Prop. W., 2021 Cal. Super.
LEXIS 105245, *6.)[1]
Moreover, there are no allegations, facts or evidence outside of conclusory
allegations that Defendants intended to inflict any injury to Plaintiffs.
Defendants contend there is nothing to even suggest that Defendants wished to
harm Plaintiffs at all but instead, Defendants attempt to address Plaintiff’s
concerns and actually fixing the issues allowing Plaintiffs to move back in. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue the
complaint sufficiently alleges multiple acts of outrageous conduct towards
Plaintiffs. The FAC alleges Mr. Ziyari was initially informed that he could go
to a hotel after the initial leak but eventually was subsequently informed that
Defendants would not be paying for the hotel; that Defendants denied any
responsibility for the flooding, and that Plaintiffs’ renters’ insurance would
have to cover the cost. (FAC ¶82.) Moreover, Defendants had the audacity to
serve Plaintiffs with papers threatening them with a “pending eviction,”
constituting retaliatory conduct, which again caused Plaintiffs to consider the
possibility of homelessness. (FAC ¶82.) According to Plaintiffs, these
allegations go far beyond your “typical landlord-tenant disputes” and falls
squarely within the bounds of “reckless conduct -- conduct intended to inflict
injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will result.” (Davidson
v. City of Westminster (1982) 32 Cal. 3d 197, 210.) 
 
Both parties cite Stoiber v.
Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903. In Stoiber, the
plaintiff-tenant alleged that her landlords knew of and failed to repair
multiple defective conditions in the plaintiff’s apartment, including leaking
sewage from the bathroom plumbing, defective and dangerous electrical wiring,
structural weaknesses in the walls, deteriorated flooring, falling ceiling,
leaking roof, dilapidated doors, and broken windows. (Stoiber v. Honeychuck
(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 912.) 
Defendants were also cited by the health department for heavy cockroach
infestation, broken interior walls, broken deteriorated flooring on front
porch, falling ceiling, deteriorated and defective electrical wiring, lack of
proper plumbing connection to sewage system in bathroom, sewage under bathroom
floor, leaking roof, broken windows, and fire hazard.  (Id.) The trial court sustained the
various defendants’ demurrers and granted motions for judgment on the pleadings
on the basis that the cause of action for breach of the warranty of
habitability was the exclusive remedy available to the plaintiff.  (Id. at 911.)  The court of appeal overruled the trial
court, holding that a tenant may seek legal redress for breach of implied
warranty of habitability and intentional infliction of emotional distress if
the landlord’s acts are extreme and outrageous and result in severe mental
distress. (Id. at 922.)  The court
of appeal further found that, based on the facts alleged in the plaintiff's
complaint, the issue of whether the landlords’ conduct was sufficiently extreme
and outrageous was a factual issue that could not be determined on a demurrer
or motion for judgment on the pleadings. (Id.)  
 
Plaintiffs’ allegations differ from Stoiber.
While Plaintiffs have alleged several issues with the premises, Plaintiffs have
not alleged Defendants knowingly allowed uninhabitable conditions to continue.¿Plaintiffs
simply allege Defendants failed to maintain the plumbing system, refused to pay
for property destroyed, and refused to pay for Plaintiffs hotel rooms. The
complaint further alleges, however, Defendants sent a repairman to fix the
leak. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Violation of Civil Code §1940.2
 
Defendants demur to the seventh cause
of action for violation of Civil Code section 1940.2 on the grounds Plaintiffs
failed to state facts sufficient to support a claim against Defendants. 
 
Civil Code section 1940.2 generally
prevents landlords from using forceful, threatening, or menacing conduct that
interferes with a tenant’s quiet enjoyment of the premises. Subsection (c)
provides “An oral or written warning notice, given in good faith, regarding
conduct by a tenant, occupant, or guest that violates, may violate, or violated
the applicable rental agreement, rules, regulations, lease, or laws, is not a
violation of this section. An oral or written explanation of the rental
agreement, rules, regulations, lease, or laws given in the normal course of
business is not a violation of this section.”
 
Defendants argue there is no violation
of Civil Code §1940.2 by informing Plaintiff that they might evict them after
Plaintiff seemingly suggests that they did not pay rent, resulting in the
notice. As such, a notice that Plaintiffs may be facing eviction if they do not
pay rent based on a violation of the applicable rental agreement and rules to
pay rent timely, is not unlawful and thus, cannot be determined to be a
violation of this statute. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue subsection
(c) also requires the notice be given “in good faith”. Plaintiffs contend Defendants
cannot credibly claim that they had any “good faith” reason to believe they
could charge rent during Plaintiffs’ relocation and Defendants were responsible
for providing a habitable premises. 
 
The court finds the allegations are
sufficient to support a claim of the written notice being made in bad faith.
The FAC alleges the same day Plaintiffs informed Defendants that the Los
Angeles Housing Department had assured them that Defendants owed them a duty to
arrange for relocation, and to compensate them, Defendants served Plaintiffs
with the pending eviction notice. A jury could conclude written warning notice
was not in good faith. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
the seventh cause of action is OVERRULED. 

 
Violation of Welf. & Inst. Code
§15610.30
 
Defendants demur to the tenth cause of
action for violation of Welfare and Institutions Code section 15610.30 on the
grounds Ms. Ziyari is not alleged to be an elder or adult dependent and
moreover, Plaintiffs have not sufficiently alleged Mr. Ziyari is a dependent
adult. 
 
Section 15610.23 includes in its
definition of a “dependent adult” “a person, regardless of whether the person
lives independently, between the ages of 18 and 64 years who resides in this
state and who has physical or mental limitations that restrict his or her
ability to carry out normal activities or to protect his or her rights,
including, but not limited to, persons who have physical or developmental
disabilities, or whose physical or mental abilities have diminished because of
age.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.23(a).) 
 
Defendants argue while Plaintiffs
attempt to allege he is a dependent adult, Plaintiff cannot claim that he is somehow
a “dependent adult” who cannot carry out normal activities with physical and
mental limitations or claim he is a decrepit individual but also claim in that
same complaint, that he has a successful specialty foods business that he
personally manages and runs and has suffered alleged loss. Moreover, Mr. Ziyari
admits that he personally had an exchange with the alleged teenagers when he
was allegedly assaulted and even attempted to locate security when it happened.
Defendants also argue there are no allegations nor can there be any allegations
that they knew he suffered from “severe panic attacks” and PTSD nor does the
alleged conduct amount to wrongful use. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs first
acknowledge the cause of action was inadvertently alleged by all Plaintiffs
rather than just Mr. Ziyari. They will amend this accordingly. Plaintiffs
further argue nothing that Mr. Ziyari has alleged contradicts the statutory
definition of Welf. & Inst., Code § 15610.23(a). He is an individual aged
18-64 residing within California who has “physical or mental limitations,”
i.e., disabilities, that “restrict” his ability to carry out normal activities,
namely, severe panic attacks and PTSD.
 
The court finds the allegations
insufficient. While a jury may find Plaintiff’s PTSD prevented him from
carrying out normal activities, Welfare & Institutions Code section 15610.30
requires an allegation that the defendant knew or should have known that the conduct
is likely to be harmful to the elder. (Welf. & Inst. §15610.30(b).) This is
not alleged. Moreover, if Plaintiff is alleging kept charging Plaintiff rent for
a wrongful use or intent to defraud, the complaint should clearly allege so. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
the tenth cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.  
 
Fraud and Fraudulent Concealment 
 
Defendants demur to the eleventh cause
of action for fraud and fraudulent concealment on the grounds Plaintiff’s cause
of action for fraud does not state such claim with specificity or any of the
requisite elements. 
 
“[T]o establish fraud through nondisclosure
or concealment of facts, it is necessary to show the defendant ‘was under a
legal duty to disclose them.’” (OCM Principal Opportunities Fund v. CIBC
World Markets Corp. (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 835, 845.) Nondisclosure or
concealment may constitute actionable fraud when: (1) there is a fiduciary
relationship between the parties; (2) the defendant had exclusive knowledge of
material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) the defendant actively conceals
a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts. (See Los Angeles
Memorial Coliseum Commission v. Insomniac, Inc. (2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 803,
831.) In California, fraud must be pled with specificity. (Small v.
Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) “The particularity
demands that a plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and
by what means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino v. Bank of
America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)  
 
 
Defendants argue the allegations are
too general – they do not allege how, what, where and when such representations
were made “in person” to Plaintiffs. Moreover, as to a corporate defendant,
Plaintiff must allege the name of the people who made the misrepresentation,
their authority to speak for the corporation, who received the communication,
and when it was made. Moreover, there are no allegations that Defendants made
any representations that the unit was going to be in absolutely perfect
condition with absolutely no issues whatsoever during the entire tenancy; there
are no allegations that Defendants knew the unit was “uninhabitable” or that they
knew a flood was going to happen or that they knew mold was in the unit to
claim that Defendants concealed this fact; no allegations had knowledge of any
issues or intended to induce reliance on any alleged representations.
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue Defendants
ignore the numerous allegations in the FAC which do plead fraud and
concealment, which are incorporated by reference in said cause of action at ¶
129. Plaintiffs specifically pleaded fraud in FAC ¶¶ 61, 73, 112c(3), 122, 125,
130-136, and 147-158. Moreover, Plaintiffs are not required to plead the how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means when defendant must necessarily possess
full information concerning the facts of the controversy. 
 
The court finds the allegations
insufficient to support a claim for fraud. While less specificity is required
when “it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the controversy[]”
(Bradley v. Hartford Acc. & Indem. Co. (1973) 30 Cal.App.3d 818, 825),
Plaintiffs have not sufficiently alleged Defendants intentionally concealed
material facts not known to Plaintiffs and what was concealed.
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
the eleventh cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Premises Liability
 
Defendants demur to the thirteenth
cause of action for premises liability on the grounds Mrs. Ziyari has failed to
allege any damages from the assault or from any alleged breach of duty for
premises liability and is barred by the statute of limitations. 
 
To establish premises liability,
plaintiff must prove that the defendant breached a duty of care owed to the
plaintiff that proximately caused injury and damages. “Those who own, possess,
or control property generally have a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing
the property in order to avoid exposing others to an unreasonable risk of
harm.” (Annocki v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32,
37.)  The statute of limitations for premises liability is two years.
(CCP §335.1.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff first states
if the damages alleged against Mrs. Ziyari are not sufficient, it will seek
leave to amend. As for statute of limitations, Plaintiffs argue the statute of
limitations is tolled under the continuing violations doctrine including the
ongoing security issues. 
 
The court finds the allegations
insufficient. Plaintiffs have not sufficiently alleged facts showing continuing
violation. Plaintiffs are “required to demonstrate heightened foreseeability in
the form of prior similar criminal incidents (or other indications of a
reasonably foreseeable risk of violent criminal assaults in the bar or its
parking lot[.]” (Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224,
244.) Although at the pleading stage, Plaintiffs must allege as much. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to the
thirteenth cause of action is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
Defendants move to strike portions of
Plaintiffs’ complaint on the grounds Plaintiffs have failed to plead specific
facts sufficient to establish that Defendant acted with malice, fraud, or
oppression, as required under California law to state a claim for punitive
damages. 
 
“In order to survive a motion to strike
an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to
such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.”  (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998)
67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  “The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be circumstances of oppression,
fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a
claim.”  (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166
(citations omitted).)  Allegations that merely plead the statutory
phraseology are wholly insufficient to state a basis for recovery of punitive
damages.  (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th
1033, 1041.)  Conclusory characterizations of defendant’s conduct as
willful, intentional or fraudulent is a patently insufficient statement of the
necessary factual grounds for punitive damages.  (Brousseau v. Jarrett (1977)
73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872.)     
 
Defendants argue none of the alleged
conduct amount to malice, oppression or fraud and at best, can only be characterized
as “unreasonable, negligent, grossly negligent or reckless” conduct which does
not satisfy the highly culpable state of mind warranting punitive damages. 
 
As the court has sustained the
demurrer, the court finds the motion to strike moot. 


