 Case Number:  24STLC05770    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  25 HEARING DATE:    Thurs., January 9, 2025                                  JUDGE /DEPT:        Mkrtchyan/25
CASE NAME:           Grant
v. Keyes Motors, Inc., et al.
CASE NUMBER:     24STLC05770                                    
           COMP. FILED:        08-12-24

NOTICE:                   YES                                                                 
                                                                                                            

 
PROCEEDINGS:     MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION, PICK ARBITRATION FORUM, AND REQUEST FOR STAY
 
MOVING PARTY:   Plaintiff
John Grant  
RESP. PARTY:         None 

 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY
PROCEEDINGS
(CCP § 1281.2, et
seq.)
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff
John Grant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration, For Court to Pick Arbitration Forum,
and Request for Stay is GRANTED. The matter is to be arbitrated before the AAA
or, in the alternative, another reputable arbitration organization.
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.4, all proceedings are STAYED pending the outcome of arbitration.
 
Post-arbitration Status Conference is
scheduled for SEPTEMBER 11, 2025, at 9:30 a.m. in Department 25 of the Spring
Street Courthouse.
 
Counsel are ordered to electronically
file a JOINT Report Re:  Status of
Arbitration Proceedings (5) court days prior to 09/11/2025.
 
The 2/09/2026 Trial is advanced to
this date and hereby taken off calendar/vacated.

 

 
 
SERVICE:  
 
[  x ] Proof of Service Timely
Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                   OK 
[x   ] Correct Address (CCP §§
1013, 1013a)                                    OK 
[X] 16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK 
 
OPPOSITION:          None
filed as of January 6, 2025                    [   ]
Late                      [X] None
REPLY:                     None
filed as of January 6, 2025                    [   ]
Late                      [X] None
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.                   
Background
 
 
In June 2022, Plaintiff John Grant (“Plaintiff”)
purchased a vehicle from “Keyes Motors, Inc. dba Keyes Toyota” (“Keyes Toyota”).
(Compl., ¶ 14.) Plaintiff
and Keyes Toyota entered into a vehicle Retail Installment Sales Contract (the
“Contract”) at the time of the purchase. (Compl., ¶ 20; Grant Decl., Exh. 1.) Travelers
Casualty and Surety Company of America (“Travelers Casualty”) was the surety on
Keyes Toyota’s bond. (Compl. ¶
46; Grant Decl., ¶.) Plaintiff contends that Keyes Toyota
misrepresented the “true condition” of the vehicle, and Plaintiff has been
harmed as a result. (Compl., ¶¶ 15-20, 30-32.) 
 
On August 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed this action against Keyes
Toyota and Travelers Casualty (“Defendants”) and Does 1-40. (Compl., p. 1.) The
Complaint alleged causes of action for Violation of Consumers Remedies Act,
Civil Code section 1750, et seq.; Violation of California Business and
Professions Code section 17200, et seq.; and Claim Against Surety. (Compl., p. 1.) 
 
On September 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant “Motion to Compel Arbitration, Motion For Court to Pick Arbitration
Forum, and Request for Stay” (the “Motion”) against Defendants. To date, no
Opposition has been filed.
 
On September 19, 2024, Plaintiff amended the Complaint to add the true
name of Doe 1/Keyes Toyota as “Van Nuys-T, Inc., dba Keyes Toyota” and filed
proof of service of the amendment on Defendants the same day.
 
Also on September 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed proof of service of the
Summons and Complaint, Motion and accompanying papers, and other case documents
on “Keyes Motors, Inc. dba Keyes Toyota” and “Travelers Casualty and Surety
Company of America.” 
 
On September 24, 2024, Plaintiff
dismissed “Keyes Motors, Inc. dba Keyes Toyota” without prejudice.
 
On October 28, 2024, Keyes Toyota and Travelers Casualty filed an Answer
to the Complaint.
 
II.                
Legal
Standard
 
California law incorporates
many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act,
including a presumption in favor of arbitrability. (Engalla v.
Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.) The
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, the party opposing the petition
then bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact
necessary to demonstrate that there should be no enforcement of the agreement,
and the trial court sits as a trier of fact to reach a final determination on
the issue. (Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996)
14 Cal.4th 394, 413 (“Rosenthal”).) The Court is empowered by the Code
of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 to compel parties to arbitrate disputes
pursuant to an agreement to do so.   
 
            Code
of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 states: 

 
On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement
alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and
that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall
order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it
determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it
determines that: 


            (a)
The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner; or 
            (b)
Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement. 
(c) A party to the
arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special
proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of
related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a
common issue of law or fact. For purposes of this section, a pending court
action or special proceeding includes an action or proceeding initiated by the
party refusing to arbitrate after the petition to compel arbitration has been
filed, but on or before the date of the hearing on the petition. This
subdivision shall not be applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes as to
the professional negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to Section
1295.  
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 1281.2(a)-(c).)  
 
            The
petition to compel arbitration functions as a motion and is to be heard in the
manner of a motion – namely, the facts are to be proven by affidavit or
declaration and documentary evidence with oral testimony taken only in the
court’s discretion. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1290; Rosenthal, supra, 14 Cal.4th at p. 402.) The
petition to compel must set forth the provisions of the written agreement and
the arbitration clause verbatim, or such provisions must be attached and
incorporated by reference. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.) 
 
            If
the court orders arbitration, then the court shall stay the action until “an
arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such
earlier time as the court specifies.” 
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)        
 
III.             
Discussion
 
Arbitration Agreement
 
Plaintiff brings the instant Motion
seeking to compel Defendants to submit to arbitration based on the Contract. 
 
“Under both the
[Federal Arbitration Act] and California law, arbitration agreements are valid,
irrevocable, and enforceable, except upon such grounds that exist at law or
equity for voiding a contract.” (Winter
v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The
party moving to compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written
arbitration agreement between the parties. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) In
ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, “the court must first determine
whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the dispute,” and “[g]eneral
principles of California contract law help guide the court in making this
determination.” (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire
Health Care Center (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff presents evidence of
the Contract, which includes a section called “Arbitration Provision.” (Heydari
Decl., ¶ 3, Exh. 1; Grant
Decl., ¶¶ 3-4, Exh. 1.)
The Contract was signed by Plaintiff and Keyes Toyota (Heydari Decl., Exh 1; Grant
Decl., Exh. 1). The Arbitration Provision provides in pertinent part: 
 
Any claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute,
or otherwise (including the 
interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision,
and the arbitrability of the claim or 
dispute), between you and us or our employees, agents,
successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit
application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any other
resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with
third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at you or our election, be
resolved by neutral binding arbitration and not by a court action. If federal
law provides that a claim or dispute is not subject to binding arbitration, this
Arbitration Provision shall not apply to such claim or dispute. Any claim or
dispute is to be arbitrated by a single arbitrator on an individual basis and
not as a class action. You expressly waive any right you may have to arbitrate
a class action. You may choose the American Arbitration Association, 1633
Broadway, 10th Floor, New York, New York 10019 (www.adr.org), or any other organization to conduct the arbitration subject to our
approval.
 
(Heydari
Decl., Exh. 1; Grant Decl., Exh. 1.)
 
No Opposition has been filed.
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has
met Plaintiff’s burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement. Plaintiff submitted a copy of the Contract and Arbitration Provision
to the Court, and neither Keyes Toyota nor Travelers Casualty dispute they are
part of the agreement. The Arbitration Provision states it applies to “Any claim or dispute, whether in
contract, tort, statute, or otherwise (including the interpretation and scope
of this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute),
between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which
arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase or condition of
this vehicle, this contract or any other resulting transaction or relationship
(including any such relationship with third parties who do not sign this
contract).” (Heydari
Decl., Exh. 1; Grant Decl., Exh. 1.) The Arbitration Provision specifically
applies to Plaintiff’s claims against Defendants, given that the causes of
action arise out of the Contract and the condition of the vehicle. (Compl.;
Motion, Heydari Decl., Exh. 1; Grant Decl., Exh. 1.)
 
Plaintiff alleges the parties have
been unable to come to an agreement regarding arbitration (Motion, p. 4;
Heydari Decl., ¶ 7, Exh. 3) and demonstrated the parties agreed to arbitrate
the dispute through the American Arbitration Association (“AAA”) or another
arbitration organization. Indeed, the Arbitration Provision states: “Any claim or dispute is to be
arbitrated by a single arbitrator on an individual basis and not as a class
action. You expressly waive any right you may have to arbitrate a class action.
You may choose the American Arbitration Association, 1633 Broadway, 10th Floor,
New York, New York 10019 (www.adr.org), or any other organization to
conduct the arbitration subject to our approval.”  (Heydari
Decl., Exh. 1; Grant Decl., Exh. 1.) Plaintiff elects AAA as the arbitration
forum in this matter or, in the alternative, JAMS (Motion, pp. 4-5), and
Defendants have not indicated they do not approve of the AAA. 
 
In light of these circumstances, it is necessary for the
Court to intervene and compel Defendants to arbitration before AAA or another
reputable arbitration organization.
 
Thus, the Court
finds that an Arbitration Agreement exists between the parties, and there is
presently no defense to its enforcement. The matter is to be arbitrated
before the AAA or, in the alternative, another reputable arbitration
organization.
 
            Costs
and Fees
 
            Plaintiff
does not request an award of costs and fees incurred in conjunction with
bringing this Motion, and thus the Court need not address costs and fees.
 
IV.             
Conclusion
& Order
 
For the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff
John Grant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration, For Court to Pick Arbitration Forum,
and Request for Stay is GRANTED. The matter is to be arbitrated before the AAA
or, in the alternative, another reputable arbitration organization.
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.4, all proceedings are STAYED pending the outcome of arbitration.
 
Post-arbitration Status Conference is
scheduled for SEPTEMBER 11, 2025, at 9:30 a.m. in Department 25 of the Spring
Street Courthouse.
 
Counsel are ordered to electronically
file a JOINT Report Re:  Status of
Arbitration Proceedings (5) court days prior to 09/11/2025.
 
The 2/09/2026 Trial is advanced to
this date and hereby taken off calendar/vacated.
 
Moving party is ordered to
give notice. 
 
 