 Case Number:  23STCV19133    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS TO QUASH SUBPOENAS;
MOTION TO COMPEL
Plaintiffs’ Motions to Quash Subpoenas
            Plaintiffs
filed two motions to quash subpoenas served on Nationwide Tax Consultants.  The court rules as follows:
Defendant Black & Decker’s Subpoena
            Nos.
1, 3, 4, 5:  Denied.  These requests seek all documents exchanged
between Plaintiff and Nationwide Tax Consultants for 15 years.  This is too broad and would require the
production of tax returns, which are privileged.  Plaintiff did not waive his privacy rights in
his tax return by suing for damages. 
Information about Plaintiff’s income can be obtained from sources other
than his tax returns, for example, from the financial documents Plaintiff gave
Nationwide Tax Consultants.
            Nos.
6, 7:  Denied.  These requests seek all financial documents,
including tax returns and other tax documents, pertaining to Plaintiff and his
business.  This is too broad and would
require the production of tax returns, which are privileged.  Plaintiff did not waive his privacy rights in
his tax return by suing for damages. 
Information about Plaintiff’s income can be obtained from sources other
than his tax returns, for example, from the financial documents Plaintiff gave
Nationwide Tax Consultants.
            Nos.
8, 9, 10:  Granted in part, denied in
part.  These requests seek all documents
provided to Nationwide Tax Consultants that it used to prepare Plaintiff’s and
his businesses’ taxes.  To the extent
this request seeks tax returns or drafts of tax returns, it is denied.  Otherwise, Plaintiff has not shown that the
other documents used to prepare the tax returns are privileged.  By claiming lost income in this case,
Plaintiff waived any privacy to documents showing his and his businesses’
income, costs, and other financial documents that he gave Nationwide.  Therefore, the motion is granted as to all
responsive documents except tax returns and drafts of tax returns.
The documents identified
above are to be produced by March 22, 2024.
            The
motion is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part. 

            The
moving party is to give notice.
Defendant Western Pacific Distributing and
Westside Building Material’s Subpoena
            No.
1:  Denied.  This request seeks all documents referring to
Plaintiffs’ tax returns.  Tax returns are
privileged.  Plaintiff did not waive his
privacy rights in his tax return by suing for damages.  Information about Plaintiff’s income can be
obtained from sources other than his tax returns, for example, from the
financial documents Plaintiff gave Nationwide Tax Consultants.
            Nos.
2, 3:  Denied.  These requests seek all of Plaintiff’s
businesses’ tax returns, financial documents, and tax filings.  This request is too broad and would require
the production of tax returns, which are privileged.  Plaintiff did not waive his privacy rights in
his tax return by suing for damages. 
Information about Plaintiff’s income can be obtained from sources other
than his tax returns, for example, from the financial documents Plaintiff gave
Nationwide Tax Consultants.
            Nos.
3, 5:  Granted in part, denied in part.  These requests seek all of Plaintiffs’
business’ financial statements, general ledgers, bank statements.  To the extent these requests seek tax returns
or drafts of tax returns, it is denied. 
Otherwise, Plaintiff has not shown that the financial documents are
privileged.  By claiming lost income in
this case, Plaintiff waived any privacy to documents showing his and his
businesses’ income, costs, and other such financial documents.  Therefore, the motion is granted as to all
responsive documents except tax returns and drafts of tax returns.
            Nos.
7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19:  Denied. 
These requests seek all “support materials underlying summary
data.”  This is too vague.  To the extent they seek bank statements,
payroll records, etc., these requests are duplicative of other requests.  Also, the requests are overbroad in seeking
all correspondence, invoices, contracts, and documents about the businesses.
            The
documents identified above are to be produced by March 22, 2024. 
            The
motion is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.
Familian’s Motion to Compel and for Terminating
and Evidentiary Sanctions
            On
March 5, 2024, Defendant Familian Corp. filed a motion to compel further
responses to requests for production and for terminating and evidentiary
sanctions against Plaintiff.  Defendant
set the hearing for March 14, 2024, nine days’ notice.  This motion is defective.
            First,
it was not set on statutory notice.  Nor
did Familian file an ex parte application for shortened time.  There is no statutory authority for hearing a
motion on less than statutory notice unless the parties agree or the court
orders it.  Further, the schedule did not
give the court sufficient time to review the motion papers, and the court’s schedule
on March 14, 2024 is already full.
            Second,
Plaintiff served the responses at issue on December 4, 2023.  Yet Defendant waited six week before trying
to meet and confer on the allegedly deficient responses and waited three months
before filing this motion.  Defendant
provides no explanation for waiting so long. 
A motion to compel further responses must be filed within 45 days.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c).)  
            The
motion is DENIED.  The moving party is to
give notice.