  Case Number:  21STCV28604    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  49 CNC Technologies, LLC v. Amrezi, LLC et al.DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO APPOINT AN ACCOUNTING REFEREE MOVING PARTY(S):   Defendants/Cross-Complainants Amrezi LLC and Clayton ThomRESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant CNC Technologies, LLC STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant CNC Technologies, LLC (“CNC”) filed the instant action against Defendants Amrezi, LLC (“Amrezi”) and Clayton Thom (“Thom”), alleging (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2) conversion, (3) fraud–concealment, (4) breach of contract, and (5) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant alleges Defendant/Cross-Complainant Amrezi and third parties entered into an LLC operating agreement to form CNC.  Under the agreement, Cross-complainant Amrezi was one of the initial members of CNC, and Cross-complainant Thom was appointed to CNC’s Board of Directors.  Cross-Defendant CNC alleges that in 2021 it became aware of numerous debts and obligations incurred by Cross-complainant Amrezi and Thom, purportedly on behalf of CNC, but without authority to do so.  It is further alleged that Cross-Defendant CNC discovered significant financial misconduct by Cross-complainant.Cross-Complainant Amrezi and Clayton Thom have Cross-Complained against CNC, its members, and individual heads of its members for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) breach of fiduciary duty, (4) intentional interference with contractual relations, (5) conversion, (6) declaratory relief, and (7) contractual indemnity.  Defendants/Cross-Complainants Amrezi and Thom now move for an order appointing an accounting referee. Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant CNC Technologies opposed.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendants’ Motion to Appoint Accounting Referee is GRANTED. Moving parties are ordered to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION:Motion to Appoint Accounting RefereeI. Objections to EvidenceEach party has submitted objections to evidence. This court is unaware of any legal authority which requires a court to rule on evidentiary objections on a motion, except as to a motion for summary motion/adjudication (CCP § 437c (q)) or a special motion to strike (CCP § 425.16 (b)(2)); see also, Sweetwater Union High School Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 947-949.)As such, the court respectfully declines to rule on these objections.  The court is well aware of the rules of evidence, and to how much weight, if any, should be given to any of the proposed evidence.   II. Legal StandardCCP section 639(a) provides, in relevant part, that the court may appoint a referee “[w]hen the trial of an issue of fact requires the examination of a long account on either side; in which case the referees may be directed to hear and decide the whole issue, or report upon any specific question of fact involved therein.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 639(a)(1); see also United States Fid. & Guar. Co. v. Sup. Ct. (May) (1988) 204 Cal.App.3d 1513, 1527.)  The reference is especially allowed when a trained accountant is generally better able to efficiently and inexpensively examine a “long account” than a trial court judge is able to do through adversarial court proceedings.  (De Guere v. Universal City Studios, Inc. (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 482, 499.)  CCP section 639(a)(1) allows a referee to decide “technical accounting matters” in examining a long account and this includes determination of the proper accounting method to be applied.  (Id. at 502-03.)  The referee’s determination, however, is subject to judicial review.  (Id.) “The proper scope of a referee's authority under section 639, subdivision (a) must be defined in a way that comports with both the constitutional limitation on delegation of judicial power and the constitutional right to jury trial.” (De Guere, supra, 56 Cal. App. 4th at 500.) III. AnalysisDefendants move the court to appoint an accounting referee. Defendants assert a preliminary accounting is necessary because the “core of the claims in this lawsuit all concern the accounting analysis of books, records, bank statements, and financial transactions”—the “long account” at issue. (Mtn. 2: 3-4.) Defendants note large discrepancies in the parties’ respective independent accountings. It is Plaintiff’s position that Defendants stole “in excess of $4 million” from Plaintiff, whereas Defendants contend they are owed over $3 million. Defendants seek the appointment of an accounting referee to avoid the “crushing burden on the Court” any accounting would cause. Defendants assert that an accounting should proceed before trial because each cause of action “is premised on a finding that one party did not properly account to the other party and that additional sums are due.” (Mtn. 7: 22-23.) Defendants provide a declaration from Steve Zubieta, a Certified Public Accountant with 40 years of “extensive experience in completing audits of the financial records of small, medium, and large businesses.” (Zubieta Decl. ¶¶ 1, 2.) Zubieta has “completed over 100 audits and conducted many forensic accountings during [his] career.” (Id. ¶ 2.) Based on Zubieta’s review, he attests the records “prove that Plaintiff CNC Tech owes Cross-Complainants $3.4 million.” (Id. ¶ 4.) Zubieta attests to the scope and complexity of the accounts at issue, which include thousands of transactions. (Id. ¶¶ 4-10.) Based on the issues raised in this action, he believes it will take “experienced accounts who are familiar with tracing accounting transactions” to conduct a “comprehensive analysis of the company's ledger, schedules, credit card statements, and the Parties' bank statements.” (Id. ¶ 8.)Plaintiff opposes the appointment of an accounting referee. Plaintiff asserts that Defendants’ accounting is based on “unreliable and unverified documents which are wholly disputed and still at issue,” and therefore, “[t]his Court must first determine the validity and credibility of those underlying transactions in the first instance before any notable accounting can take place.” (Opp. 1: 21-25.) Plaintiff asserts that appointing an accounting referee at this stage would improperly delegate questions of fact to the referee, specifically, “the validity of the underlying financial transactions at the core of this case.” (Opp. 11: 24-26.) Plaintiff has submitted a declaration from its forensic accounting expert, Victoria Wilkerson. It is Wilkerson’s position that Defendant’s accounting was highly flawed, and maintains that Defendants misappropriated $4,637,877.00 from Plaintiff. (Wilkerson Decl. ¶¶ 3-16.) Here, the task of conducting an accounting is precisely within the referee’s power and the reason section 639(a) exists. Plaintiff’s reliance on De Guere to argue that appointing a referee here would be an improper delegation of judicial authority is misplaced. There, the Court of Appeal explained it would be improper for the accounting referee to decide issues “such as the intent of the parties, or whether their agreement is a contract of adhesion.” (De Guere, supra, 56 Cal. App. 4th at 499.) But to conduct “a proper examination of a long account,” a referee “must know the proper accounting methodology to be applied and “must have the accounting records at issue.” (Id.) Each of these “is within the proper ambit of his or her authority.” (Id.)As evidenced by the parties’ experts, there is no dispute that this action involves complex accounting issues. The court is mindful that there may also exist issues pertaining to the validity of some transactions. But as Defendants note, “to the extent a party objects to a particular financial transaction contending it is not a legitimate entry in the financials, the accounting referee is free to prepare an alternate calculation so there is an accounting with and without the objected to document.” (Reply 4: 25-27.) Once this is complete, the court can make any necessary factual findings as to the validity of any challenged transactions. Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to Appoint Accounting Referee is GRANTED. Pursuant to CCP section 639(d), the court makes the following determinations or orders:(1) Reason: The referee is being appointed because the adjudication of Plaintiff’s and Counterclaimant’s claims require an examination of a complex “long account,” specifically bank statements, schedules, ledgers, transactions, capital contributions, loans, and distributions between 2016 – 2021; (2) Subject Matter: The referee is appointed to (a) determine the property accounting methodology to be applied in rendering a correct accounting pursuant to the terms of the contract; (b) examine the accounts that are relevant to the Parties’ claims; (c) perform an accounting to calculate the correct amounts payable, if any; and (d) submit to the Court a report containing the referee’s findings as to the foregoing issues and recommendations as to the proper accounting.(3) Identity of Referee: The parties shall have 30 days from the date of this order to mutually agree on a referee. If the parties agree on a referee, they shall inform the court through a joint filing. If they cannot do so, each party is to submit a list of 3 proposed referees within 45 days of this order. Thereafter, the court will elect and appoint a referee from the names provided by the parties. (4) Hourly Rate: The referee should be compensated at his or her ordinary hourly rate; and(5) Payment of Fees: No party has established an inability to pay, and thus, each party is to cover a pro rata share of the referee’s fee. IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   October 16, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at  Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.