 Case Number:  21STCV47554    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



WAVE INVESTMENT, LLC, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SECURCAPITAL CORP., et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV47554




Hearing Date:


February 21, 2024




Hearing Time:   2:00 p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEFENDANT
  STEPHEN J. RUSSELL’S DEMURRER TO THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT OF WAVE INVESTMENT,
  LLC; 
 
DEFENDANTS’
  MOTION TO STRIKE ALLEGATION OF THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT OF WAVE INVESTMENT LLC
 



 
Background
Plaintiff Wave
Investment, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on December 30, 2021 against
Defendants SecurCapital Corp. (“SecurCapital”) and Stephen J. Russell (“Russell”)
(jointly, “Defendants”)
Plaintiff filed the operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) on November
15, 2023 alleging causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) declaratory
relief, (3) breach of partnership or joint venture agreement, (4) breach of
fiduciary duty, (5) conversion, 
(6)
fraudulent concealment, (7) fraudulent misrepresentation, (8) negligent
misrepresentation, 
(9)
unjust enrichment, (10) accounting, and (11) constructive trust. 
In the TAC, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “[t]his action
arises from Defendants’ theft of business and investment opportunities in
violation of the law and the Parties’ agreements…The primary opportunity was
the acquisition of Breakout Capital (‘Breakout’), a small business lender.”
(TAC, ¶¶ 1-2.) “[Plaintiff] identified SecurCapital and Russell as potential
investors. [Plaintiff] discussed the opportunity with Defendants, and the
parties decided to move forward.” (TAC, ¶ 2.) Plaintiff alleges that “[t]o
protect itself and to ensure it would be fully compensated for its efforts,
[Plaintiff] entered into a Non-Circumvention Agreement that prohibited
Defendants from acquiring any assets of Breakout or otherwise investing in the
company without [Plaintiff’s] prior written approval.” (TAC, ¶ 3.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “[a]fter signing the Non-Circumvention
Agreement and agreeing to be bound thereby, Russell, individually and on behalf
of SecurCapital, went behind [Plaintiff’s] back and acquired the assets of
Breakout without notice to, or approval from, [Plaintiff]. In doing so,
Defendants lied to [Plaintiff] to conceal their plan and negotiations with
Breakout to prevent [Plaintiff] from exercising its contractual right to block
the deal.” (TAC, ¶ 5.) Plaintiff “seeks to recover its lost profits and other
economic injury from the loss of this opportunity, compensation for its
substantial work, disgorgement of the benefits Defendants unjustly received,
and all related damages it suffered from Defendants’ wrongful conduct.” (TAC, ¶
6.) 
Russell now demurs to the first cause of action of the TAC. In
addition, Defendants move to strike portions of the TAC. Plaintiff opposes the
demurrer and motion to strike.  
Request for Judicial
Notice 
The Court grants Russell’s request for
judicial notice filed in support of Russell’s demurrer. 
Demurrer 
A.   
Legal Standard 
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (¿Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318¿.) “¿To survive a
demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of
action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.¿” (¿C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist.
(2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872¿.) For the purpose
of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the
truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (¿Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967¿.) A demurrer “¿does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.¿” (¿Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713¿.)¿¿ 
B.   
First Cause of Action for Breach of
Non-Circumvention Agreement as to Russell 
In the first cause of action for Breach
of Non-Circumvention Agreement, Plaintiff alleges that “[o]n or about April 8,
2019, Defendants entered into the Non-Circumvention Agreement with [Plaintiff],
a valid and binding written agreement.” (TAC, ¶ 48.) Plaintiff alleges that
“[p]ursuant to the Non-Circumvention Agreement, Defendants agreed not to close
any kind of transaction with Breakout without [Plaintiff’s] express prior
written agreement. Therefore, [Plaintiff] had the right and discretion to preclude
any transaction between Defendants and Breakout. The purpose and effect of the
Non-Circumvention Agreement was to preserve and protect [Plaintiff’s] right to
purchase Breakout and prevent Defendants from circumventing [Plaintiff] to cut
it out of the deal.” (TAC, ¶ 50.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants usurped [Plaintiff’s] right to
acquire Breakout by Russell causing SecurCapital to acquire the assets of
Breakout without the consent or involvement of [Plaintiff], materially
breaching the Non-Circumvention Agreement.” (TAC, ¶ 51.) Plaintiff alleges that
“[s]pecifically, Defendants materially breached the Non-Circumvention Agreement
by the following wrongful acts: a. Defendants engaged in direct, secret
contacts with Breakout without disclosing such contacts to or obtaining
approval from [Plaintiff]; and b. Defendants entered into transactions to
acquire Breakout without [Plaintiff’s] participation or prior written approval.
c. SecurCapital obtained an equity stake in BHI and Russell obtained a seat on
its Board of Directors, without [Plaintiff’s] participation or prior written
approval.” (TAC, ¶ 51.) 
In the demurrer, Russell asserts that he is not a party to the
Non-Circumvention Agreement. As an initial matter, Russell argues that “[t]he
TAC fails to state a cause of action against Russell, SecurCapital’s CEO,
individually, because, as the Court held in its ruling on Defendants’ Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings, Russell is not a party to the NCA and Russell
did not engage in conduct that breached the NCA.” (Demurrer at p. 7:7-10.) But
as noted by Plaintiff, the Court did not rule that “Russell is not a party to
the NCA,” as Russell contends in the instant demurrer. (Demurrer at p. 7:9.)
Defendants previously filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings as
to Plaintiff’s Second Amended Complaint. On November 13, 2023, the Cout issued
a minute order providing, inter alia, that “[t]he Court grants
Defendants’ motion as to the first cause of action, solely as to Russell, with
leave to amend. Defendants’ motion is otherwise denied.” (November 13, 2023 Minute Order at p. 14.) In the motion for
judgment on the pleadings, Defendants also argued that “Russell is not a party
to the Non-Circumvention Agreement.” (November 13, 2023
Minute Order at p. 11.) Plaintiff argued in the opposition that
“Defendants’ argument as to the first cause of action is an untimely and
improper motion for reconsideration of the Court’s demurrer ruling.” (Id. at p. 12.) In the November 13, 2023 minute
order, the Court noted as follows:
 
“[I]n the reply,
Defendants cite to Ion
Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, superseded by
statute on other grounds as stated in Hart v. TWC Prod. & Tech. LLC (N.D.Cal.
2021) 526 F.Supp.3d 592. The Ion Court noted that ‘[a] motion for judgment
on the pleadings may be made at any time either prior to the trial or at the
trial itself…The motion may be made even when a general demurrer has been
previously overruled. The interests of all parties are advanced by avoiding a
trial and reversal for defect in pleadings. The objecting party is acting
properly in raising the point at his first opportunity, by general demurrer. If
the demurrer is erroneously overruled, he is acting properly in raising the
point again, at his next opportunity. If the trial judge made the former ruling
himself, he is not bound by it.’ (Id. at p. 877.) Defendants
note that the Court’s November 4, 2022 Order does not address Defendants’
specific arguments in the instant motion concerning the signature block of the
NCA.” (November 13, 2023 Minute Order at p at p. 13.)

However, the Court also found that “as already discussed in the
Court’s November 4, 2022 Order, the NCA states that it ‘is entered into as of
this 3rd day of March, 2019, and is by and between Stephen J. Russell, CEO
SecurCapital including officers, directors, shareholders, agents, employees,
consultants, attorneys and affiliates (all known as Presentee) and Mark Boyce,
Wave Investments (all known as Presentor).’ (FAC, ¶ 20, Ex. A, Emphasis added.)
As noted by Plaintiff, ‘Defendants cite cases relating to the signature
block, but no cases where the preamble specifically names the signatory as a
party to the Agreement.’ (Opp’n at p. 20:4-5, emphasis omitted.)” (November
13, 2023 Minute Order at p. 12, underline added.) 
Defendants also raised another argument in their motion for judgment
on the pleadings as to the first cause of action. The November 13, 2023 minute order
provides, “[a]s noted by Defendants in the reply, Plaintiff does not appear to
respond to Defendants’ argument that the first cause of action for breach of
contract is based on SecurCapital’s actions, not Russell’s.” (November 13, 2023 Minute Order at p. 11.) 
As discussed, in the instant demurrer, Russell again argues that
“Russell is not a party to the Non-Circumvention Agreement.” (Demurrer at p.
8:10.) In the opposition, Plaintiff argues that the demurrer is an untimely
motion for reconsideration. But in the demurrer, Russell cites to Carlton v. Dr.
Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 1200, 1211, where the Court of Appeal held that “[t]he Sixth District Court of Appeal has also concluded,
[A] party is within its rights to successively demur to a cause of action in an
amended pleading notwithstanding a prior unsuccessful demurrer to that same
cause of action.” (Internal quotations omitted.) Thus, the Court will consider Russell’s
argument in the instant demurrer that he is “not a party to the
non-circumvention agreement.” (Demurrer at p. 8:10.) 
Russell cites to Carlesimo v. Schwebel (1948) 87 Cal.App.2d
482, 487, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[i]n the present case, had Schwebel appended the preposition ‘by’ immediately before his
signature, there would be no doubt at all that the contract would have
disclosed, on its face, not only that appellant was dealing with the
corporation, but that Schwebel was signing as an agent
and not as a principal. Where that appears on the face of the contract the corporation is
liable and the agent is not. But, says appellant, the word ‘by’ does not appear in this
signature, and therefore Schwebel must be conclusively presumed to have signed in his
individual capacity, even though the evidence is susceptible of the
interpretation that Schwebel signed as an agent.” (Internal citations omitted.) 
Russell
again asserts that here, “Russell’s signature appears on the
contract next to ‘By.’ His name is written under the signature line with ‘CEO,’
and below his signature is the name and address of the corporation. Clearly,
Russell signed on behalf of the corporation, and, thus, he is not personally
liable for breach of contract. The language in the preamble does not compel any
other conclusion.” (Demurrer at p. 8:23-26.) Russell also argues that “even if
the preamble did include Russell, individually, he is indisputably not a
signatory to the contract, as he did not execute the agreement in his
individual capacity.” (Demurrer at p. 9:11-12.) But as discussed in the Court’s
November 4, 2022 Order and November 13, 2023 minute order, the Non-Circumvention
Agreement states that it “is
entered into as of this 3rd day of March, 2019, and is by and between
Stephen J. Russell, CEO SecurCapital including officers, directors,
shareholders, agents, employees, consultants, attorneys and affiliates (all
known as Presentee) and Mark Boyce, Wave Investments (all known as Presentor).”
(TAC, ¶ 21, Ex. A, emphasis added.) As noted by Plaintiff, Russell “has
still not identified any cases where the preamble specifically names the
signatory as a party to the Agreement.” (Opp’n at pp. 7:24-8:1, emphasis
omitted.) 
Russell also asserts
that “[i]f Russell was signing as an individual, the remaining language
of the sentence would be nonsensical, as Russell does not personally have officers,
directors, and shareholders.” (Demurrer at p. 9:5-6.) Plaintiff argues that
“such language…is reasonably read as applying to SecurCapital.” (Opp’n at p.
8:6.) Moreover, as discussed, the Non-Circumvention Agreement clearly states
that it “is entered into as of
this 3rd day of March, 2019, and is by and between Stephen J. Russell, CEO
SecurCapital including officers, directors, shareholders, agents,
employees, consultants, attorneys and affiliates (all known as Presentee) and
Mark Boyce, Wave Investments (all known as Presentor).” (TAC, ¶ 21, Ex. A, emphasis
added.) 
Russell also argues that
“[t]he other exhibits attached to the TAC, including the Term Sheet
(Exh. B), Side Letter (Exh. C), and the Standstill Agreement (Exh. D),
similarly identify SecurCapital, not Russell individually, as the party.”
(Demurrer at p. 9:25-27.) But the Court does not see how these exhibits are
relevant, as the first cause of action is for breach of the 
Non-Circumvention
Agreement. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Russell has shown
that he is not a party to the alleged Non-Circumvention Agreement. The Court
finds that Plaintiff has adequately alleged that Russell is a party to the
Non-Circumvention Agreement.
Russell also argues that “[t]o the extent [Plaintiff’s] new
allegations state Russell negotiated or closed the transaction in his
individual capacity, they should be disregarded by the Court as a sham pleading
asserted solely to evade the Court’s November 13, 2023 order granting judgment
on the pleadings for Russell.” (Demurrer at p. 7:12-15.) Russell notes that “[u]nder the sham pleading
doctrine, a plaintiff cannot avoid allegations that are determinative to a
cause of action simply by filing an amended complaint which omits the
problematic facts or pleads facts inconsistent with those alleged in the
original complaint. The doctrine
precludes a plaintiff from amending a complaint to omit harmful allegations,
without explanation, from previous complaints to avoid attacks raised in
demurrers. Instead, the plaintiff must
satisfactorily explain such an omission. Failure to provide such an explanation
allows the court to disregard the inconsistent allegations and read into the
amended complaint the allegations of the superseded complaint. (Tindell v.
Murphy (2018)
22 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1248.)
Russell argues that “[t]o attempt to pin individual liability on
Russell, in the TAC, Plaintiff revises heading ‘E’ and other instances where
its Complaint, FAC and SAC identified SecurCapital as the only breaching party,
to either state ‘Defendants’ collectively or to add an allegation of Russell’s
individual involvement…These changes, which contradict prior allegations, were
made solely to avoid the effect of the November 13, 2023 Order Granting
Judgment on the Pleadings for Russell.” (Demurrer at p. 13:14-20.) 
Russell points to “Heading A” of the TAC, which alleges “A.
Introduction to Defendants and the Non-Circumvention Agreement.” (TAC, p. 5:8.)
“Heading A” of the Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleges “A. Introduction to
SecurCapital and the Non-Circumvention Agreement.” (SAC, p. 5:1.) Rusell also
points to “Heading E” of the TAC, which alleges that “E. Defendants Cut Wave
Out of the Deal.” (TAC, p. 9:28.) “Heading E” of the SAC alleges “E.
SecurCapital Cuts Wave Out of the Deal.” (SAC, p. 9:14.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that “the TAC is not a ‘sham
pleading’ because it clarified in response to the Court’s MJOP Order that it
was Russell – opposed to some other person – that directed his entity’s breach
of the non-circumvention agreement.” (Opp’n at p. 8:7-10.) The Court’s November
13, 2023 minute order provides, inter alia, as follows: 
 
“Defendants
assert that “Plaintiff’s allegations throughout the SAC make clear that its
claim for breach of the Non-Circumvention Agreement is based on SecurCapital’s
actions, not Russell’s.” (Mot. at p. 18:20-21.) Defendants note that the SAC
alleges, inter alia, that ‘[Plaintiff], SecurCapital, and Breakout negotiated
the outlines of an investment transaction whereby [Plaintiff] and SecurCapital,
as co-investors, would invest approximately $3,000,000 as operating capital of
a newly-formed company…which would purchase the assets of Breakout.’ (SAC, ¶
24.) Plaintiff notes Heading ‘E’ on page 9 of the SAC alleges ‘SecurCapital
Cuts Wave Out of the Deal,’ and that paragraph 40 of the SAC alleges that
‘SecurCapital unilaterally closed a deal to purchase the assets of Breakout
through BHI.’” (November 13, 2023 Minute Order at pp.
10-11.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff notes that “[u]nder
the sham pleading doctrine, allegations in an original pleading that rendered
it vulnerable to demurrer or other attack cannot simply be omitted without
explanation.” (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 751.) Plaintiff asserts that “[t]hat
is not what [Plaintiff’s] TAC does. For example, [Plaintiff] did not allege in
the SAC that someone other than Russell at SecurCapital committed the breaches,
and now allege in the TAC that it was Russell. Rather, the TAC makes explicit
what is so obvious that even Russell admits it: SecurCapital is an entity and
‘can act only through’ a person, and that person has always been Russell…There
is nothing ‘inconsistent’ here.” (Opp’n at p. 8:24-28.)[1] The Court agrees that
Russell has not identified inconsistent allegations in the TAC.  
Russell also
asserts in the demurrer that “[i]n every prior version of the
pleading, SecurCapital was alleged to be the only party closing the BHI deal,
failing to seek Wave’s consent, failing to return $100,000 to Wave, and using
the $100,000 in the BHI deal. (RJN Exh. 3, SAC ¶¶ 43-44) Now, almost two years
after filing the action and after judgment on the pleadings was entered against
Wave, Wave contends that Russell individually jointly closed the BHI deal with
Wave, failed to return $100,000 to Wave, and used the $100,000 in the BHI
deal.” (Demurrer at p. 14:21-27.) But in support of this assertion, Russell
cites to paragraphs 43 and 44 of the SAC, which allege that “[o]n or about
April 8, 2019, Defendants entered into the Non-Circumvention Agreement
with [Plaintiff], a valid and binding written agreement,” and that “[Plaintiff]
has performed all conditions, covenants, and promises required on its part to
be performed under the terms of the Non-Circumvention Agreement, including
introducing Defendants to Breakout for the opportunity of a
transaction.” (SAC, ¶¶ 43, 44, emphasis added.)[2] 
Russell also argues that “[t]hese new allegations directly contradict
the other new allegation at Paragraph 45 of the TAC…”
(Demurrer at p. 14:27-28.) Paragraph 45 of the TAC
alleges that “Defendants, having cut [Plaintiff] out of the deal, acquired an
equity stake in BHI and Russell was awarded a seat on the Board of Directors of
BHI. The equity stake was held by SecurCapital while Russell personally
occupied the Board seat.” (TAC, ¶ 45.) The Court does not see how this
allegation contradicts those in paragraphs 43 and 44 of the SAC. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Russell has shown
that the new allegations in the TAC are a sham pleading.
Russell also asserts in the demurrer that his “seat on the BHI Board
does not support a breach of contract claim.” (Demurrer at p. 15:11-12.) As set
forth above, in the first cause of action of the TAC, Plaintiff alleges that
“Defendants materially breached the Non-Circumvention Agreement by the
following wrongful acts: a. Defendants engaged in direct, secret contacts with
Breakout without disclosing such contacts to or obtaining approval from [Plaintiff];
and b. Defendants entered into transactions to acquire Breakout without [Plaintiff’s]
participation or prior written approval. c. SecurCapital obtained an equity
stake in BHI and Russell obtained a seat on its Board of Directors, without [Plaintiff’s]
participation or prior written approval.” (TAC, ¶ 51, emphasis added.) 
In the demurrer, Russell asserts, inter alia, that “the cause
of action fails as against Russell because Plaintiff does not allege any damage
based on Russell’s obtaining a BHI Board seat.” (Demurrer at p. 15:19-21.) Plaintiff
does not appear to directly address this point in the opposition. Rusell notes
that Plaintiff alleges that “[a]s a direct and proximate result of the breaches
by Defendants of the Non-Circumvention Agreement, [Plaintiff] has suffered
damages including the loss of the equity ownership position in BHI as
contemplated by the parties’ written agreements and any potential profit
arising from such equity ownership.” (TAC, ¶ 53.)  
However, the Court notes that with respect to Russell’s challenge to
the allegation set forth in paragraph 51(c) of the TAC,
“¿a
demurrer cannot rightfully be sustained to part of a cause of action...¿” (¿Kong
v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1047¿; ¿see
also PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682 [“A
demurrer does not lie to a portion of a cause of action.”]¿.) In addition to
paragraph 51(c), Plaintiff also alleges that “Defendants
materially breached the Non-Circumvention Agreement by the following wrongful
acts: a. Defendants engaged in direct, secret contacts with Breakout without
disclosing such contacts to or obtaining approval from [Plaintiff]; and b.
Defendants entered into transactions to acquire Breakout without [Plaintiff’s]
participation or prior written approval…” (TAC, ¶ 51(a)-(b).) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Russell has shown
that the first cause of action fails to state a cause of action against
Russell. Thus, the Court overrules the demurrer to 
the
first cause of action. 
Motion to Strike 
A
court may strike any “irrelevant, false, or improper matter¿inserted in any
pleading¿” or any part of a pleading “¿not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.¿” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 436¿¿.) “¿The grounds for
a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 437¿.) Here, Defendants
move to strike paragraphs 13 and 54 of the TAC.
Defendants first address
paragraph 54 of the TAC, which is contained in the
first cause of action for breach of Non-Circumvention Agreement.
Paragraph 54 alleges that “[i]n the alternative, [Plaintiff] is entitled to
disgorge Defendants’ profits. Defendants were unjustly enriched in at least the
following ways and in an amount to be proven at trial: (1) Defendants acquired
Breakout on their own and have retained all the profit for themselves; and (2)
Defendants took advantage of all of [Plaintiff’s] confidential information,
knowledge, and efforts— e.g., including the investment and acquisition
opportunities with Breakout, knowledge on Breakout’s fundamentals and history
of doing business, and effort in negotiating and moving towards a potential
deal with Breakout—at no cost to Defendants.” (TAC, ¶ 54.) 
Defendants assert that paragraph 54 of the TAC
should be stricken because disgorgement of profits is not an appropriate remedy
for breach of contract. Defendants cite to Civil Code
section 3300, which
provides that “[f]or the
breach of an obligation arising from contract, the measure of damages, except
where otherwise expressly provided by this code, is the amount which will
compensate the party aggrieved for all the detriment proximately caused
thereby, or which, in the ordinary course of things, would be likely to result therefrom.”
Defendants also note that “[c]ontract
damages seek to approximate the agreed-upon performance.” (Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 515.) 
In the
opposition, Plaintiff asserts that “disgorgement is a proper remedy for breach
of contract, where, as here, compensatory damages are inadequate to protect the
benefit of the 
Plaintiff’s bargain.” (Opp’n
at p. 4:15-17.) Plaintiff cites to Ajaxo Inc. v.
E*Trade Group Inc. (2005) 135
Cal.App.4th 21, 56, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[i]n
this case, we must draw the distinction between damages and
restitution. When the remedy given for breach of contract is money
damages, the amount awarded is determined with the purpose of putting the
injured party in as good a position as he would have occupied had the contract
been performed. In granting restitution as a remedy for the breach, however,
the purpose to be attained may be no more than the restoration of the injured
party to as good a position as that occupied by him before the contract was
made…The remedy of restitution differs from the remedy in damages in that in
awarding damages the purpose is to put the injured party in as good a position
as he would have occupied, had the contract been fully performed, while in
enforcing restitution, the purpose is to require the wrongdoer to restore what
he has received and thus tend to put the injured party in as good a position as
that occupied by him before the contract was made. Ordinarily, restitution
requires that the defendant shall give something back to the plaintiff; and it
may be supposed that the defendant cannot do this unless he has received
something of value at the plaintiff’s hands.” (Internal quotations omitted.)[3] 
            In Ajaxo,
“a jury found that E*Trade Group Inc. (E*Trade) had breached a mutual
nondisclosure agreement it had with Ajaxo Inc. (Ajaxo) by disclosing protected
information to Everypath Inc. (Everypath).” (Ajaxo Inc. v. E*Trade Group
Inc., supra, 135
Cal.App.4th at p. 25.) The Court of Appeal “conclude[d]
that restitution requires the return to Ajaxo of ‘value’ or ‘benefit’ that
E*Trade received. Here, assuming that E*Trade had performed on the NDA, i.e.,
had kept Ajaxo’s trade secrets and proprietary information confidential,
Ajaxo would have been in exactly the same position before it entered into
the NDA as it would have been after negotiations broke down, except it would
have kept its trade secrets and proprietary information away from Everypath.
Ajaxo conferred a benefit on E*Trade by giving E*Trade Ajaxo’s trade secrets
and proprietary information because, ultimately, E*Trade received technology
from Everypath that helped to keep it competitive. Thus, E*Trade was benefited
by breaching the NDA. Accordingly, Ajaxo must be ‘compensated’ for E*Trade’s
breach of the NDA, i.e., by E*Trade disgorging its unjust enrichment.” (Id.
at pp. 56-57.) 
            Plaintiff contends in the opposition that “[i]n
cases of opportunistic breaches like this one, where a deliberate breach of
contract results in profit to the defaulting party, only restitution of the
profit realized by the breaching party can provide inadequate [sic] protection
to the non-breaching party’s contractual entitlement.” (Opp’n at p. 5:12-15.) 
            Defendants assert that Ajaxo is distinguishable. As set forth above, the Ajaxo
Court found that “E*Trade was benefited
by breaching the NDA. Accordingly, Ajaxo must be ‘compensated’ for E*Trade’s
breach of the NDA, i.e., by E*Trade disgorging its unjust enrichment.” (Ajaxo Inc. v. E*Trade Group Inc.,
supra, 135 Cal.App.4th at p. 57.) As noted by Defendants,
the Ajaxo Court then noted that “[p]aragraph
five of the NDA specifically allows for an equitable remedy in addition to
‘whatever remedies it might have at law.’” (Id.
at p. 57, fn. 33.) In the motion, Defendants assert that “[t]he
Ajaxo court additionally found it significant that the NDA at issue there
‘specifically allows for an equitable remedy in addition to ‘whatever remedies
it might have at law.’…The NCA contains no such provision.” (Mot. at p. 8:1-3.)
Plaintiff does not appear to dispute this point in the opposition. In addition,
the first
cause of action does not appear to allege that any provision allowing for an equitable
remedy is contained in the Non-Circumvention
Agreement. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Defendants have
demonstrated that paragraph 54 of the TAC should be
stricken. 
Next, Defendants argue that paragraph 13 should be stricken. Paragraph
13 of the TAC alleges that “[Plaintiff] is informed
and believes, and on that basis alleges, that the Defendants conspired
together, and maliciously and willfully entered into a scheme to engage in the
wrongful acts described herein. [Plaintiff] is further informed and believes,
and on that basis alleges, that in pursuit of that conspiracy and scheme, each
Defendant did the acts and things alleged herein, and all of such acts and
things were participated in and done by each Defendant, or by any combination
of them, as steps in the conspiracy and for the purpose of causing the wrongful
acts described herein.” (TAC, ¶ 13.) 
Defendants assert that “Plaintiff’s conspiracy allegation should be
stricken because a corporation cannot conspire with its agents acting in the course
of their employment.” (Mot. at p. 9:1-3.) Defendants cite to Black v. Bank
of America (1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 1, 4, where the California Supreme Court noted that “[i]t has long been the rule in California that [a]gents and
employees of a corporation cannot conspire with their corporate principal
or employer where they act in their official capacities on behalf of the
corporation and not as individuals for their individual advantage.” (Internal
quotations omitted.) The Court of Appeal in Black found that 
“[a] corporation is, of course,
a legal fiction that cannot act at all except through its employees and agents.
When a corporate employee acts in the course of his or her employment, on
behalf of the corporation, there is no entity apart from the employee with whom
the employee can conspire…[I]t is basic in the law of conspiracy that you must
have two persons or entities to have a conspiracy. A corporation cannot conspire with itself any
more than a private individual can, and it is the general rule that the acts of
the agent are the acts of the corporation…To hold that a subordinate
employee of a corporation can be liable for conspiring with the corporate
principal would destroy what has heretofore been the settled rule that a
corporation cannot conspire with itself.” (Id. at p. 6 [internal quotations and citations
omitted].) 
In the TAC, Plaintiff alleges that “Russell…is
the CEO of Defendant SecurCapital.” (TAC, ¶ 9.) Defendants assert that
“[b]ecause Plaintiff cannot as a matter of law state a conspiracy claim between
the only two named defendants in the matter, the conspiracy allegation should
be stricken.” (Mot. at p. 10:1-2.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that it “has not alleged a
conspiracy claim so the Court should not strike the nothingburger allegation
that Defendants acted in concert.” (Opp’n at p. 6:14-15.) Defendants counter
that “[a]s Plaintiff admits the conspiracy allegations of Paragraph 13 of the TAC are a ‘nothingburger,’ the Court should
strike this paragraph as irrelevant.” (Reply at p. 4:18-19.) Indeed, although Plaintiff
asserts that “Paragraph 13 only provides background on Russell and
SecurCapital’s relationship” (Opp’n at p. 6:24-25), Plaintiff does not appear
to demonstrate how such allegation is relevant to any of Plaintiff’s causes of
action. As discussed, “[t]he court may, upon a motion
made pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a), emphasis added.)
Based on the
foregoing, the Court finds that Defendants have demonstrated that paragraph 13 of the TAC should be stricken.  
Conclusion 
Based on the foregoing, the Court
overrules Russell’s demurrer to the first cause of action of the TAC.  
The Court grants Defendants’
motion to strike paragraphs 13 and 54 of the TAC,
with leave to amend. 
The Court orders
Plaintiff to file and serve an amended complaint, if any, within 20 days of the
date of this order. If no amended complaint is filed within 20 days, the Court
orders Defendants to file and serve their answer to the TAC within 30 days of the
date of this order.  
Defendants are ordered to give
notice of this order.¿ 
 
 
DATED:  February 21, 2024                          ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


