 Case Number:  21STCV24062    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



MARITA VALDEZ, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
GREGORY NICOLAYSEN, A PROFESSIONAL LAW CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


  23STCV24062




Hearing Date:


February 21, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEMURRER TO
  COMPLAINT;
 
MOTION TO STRIKE
  PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT FOR DAMAGES
 



            
Background
On October 3, 2023,
Plaintiff Marita Valdez (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Gregory
Nicolaysen, a Professional Law Corporation and Gregory Nicolaysen (jointly,
“Defendants”). The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) hostile work
environment harassment in violation of FEHA, and (2) failure to prevent
harassment in violation of FEHA.
Defendants now demur to both causes of action of the Complaint and
move to strike portions of the Complaint. Plaintiff opposes both.[1] 
Request for Judicial
Notice 
The Court grants Defendants’ Request for
Judicial Notice No. 1 as to “[t]he fact that the Criminal Justice Act is
a federal statute codified in 18 U.S.C. 27 3006A.”
The Court denies Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice Nos. 2
and 3, and notes the links provided state “Page Not Found.” 
The Court grants Defendants’ Request for
Judicial Notice No. 5 only as to the existence of Exhibit A, and grants
Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice No. 9 only as to the existence of Exhibit
E. 
The Court denies Defendants’ Request for
Judicial Notice Nos. 4, 6, 7, 8, and 10.  

Demurrer 
A.   
Legal Standard
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. ((Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” ((C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. ((Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” ((Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B.    Allegations of the
Complaint 
In the Complaint,
Plaintiff alleges that she was “a Criminal Justice Act (‘CJA’) paralegal
working under and providing services to Nicolaysen - a CJA Panel Attorney, and
the Nicolaysen Law Firm.” (Compl., ¶ 10.) 
“From January 2022 through March 2022, Nicolaysen sent Valdez several
unsolicited text messages discussing his desire for ‘Armenian hookers’,
‘concubines’ or ‘prostitutes.’ Nicolaysen made these sexual comments not only
in text messages, but also in person while Nicolaysen and Valdez met for
work-related purposes.” (Compl., ¶ 13.) “On one other occasion Nicolaysen
physically touched Valdez on her arm and back which resulted in Valdez visibly
flinching from discomfort. Valdez did not welcome or solicit this physical
touching.” (Compl., ¶ 14.) Plaintiff alleges that “[a]s the months went on,
Nicolaysen continued to send Valdez increasingly derogatory and sexually
harassing text messages.” (Compl., ¶ 15.)
“Nicolaysen’s text messages also began to suggest that Valdez only
work on cases assigned to Nicolaysen and that Valdez work exclusively for
Nicolaysen.” (Compl., ¶ 17.) Plaintiff alleges that “[f]inally, when the
sexually harassing communications started to create a toxic working
environment, Valdez withdrew from Nicolaysen’s cases and ceased her paralegal
work for Nicolaysen to her financial detriment.” (Compl., ¶ 19.) 
C.    First and Second
Causes of Action 
In the demurrer, Defendants
first assert that the allegations of the first and second causes of action fail
to establish an employer-employee relationship. 
Defendants cite to Patterson v.
Domino's Pizza, LLC (2014) 60 Cal.4th 474, 477, where
 “a male
supervisor employed by a franchisee allegedly subjected a female…subordinate to
sexual harassment while they worked together at the franchisee's pizza store.” In Patterson, “[t]he
complaint stated several causes of action. The first three counts invoked the
California Fair Employment and Housing Act (FEHA), and alleged sexual
harassment, failure to take reasonable steps to avoid harassment, and
retaliation for reporting harassment. ((See Gov. Code, § 12900 et seq.)…Otherwise,
the complaint asserted common law counts for intentional infliction of
emotional distress, assault and battery, and constructive termination against
public policy under FEHA.” (Id. at p. 480.) Defendants note that the Patterson
Court stated, “[e]ssential to plaintiff’s statutory claims is the existence of ‘an
employment relationship.’” (Id. at p. 499.) 
As set forth
above, Plaintiff alleges that “Valdez was a Criminal Justice Act
(‘CJA’) paralegal working under and providing services to Nicolaysen - a CJA
Panel Attorney, and the
Nicolaysen
Law Firm.” (Compl., ¶ 10.) Defendants contend that “[b]y alleging that
plaintiff and defendant were court-appointed under the CJA, the Complaint on
its face admits that no employer-employee relationship existed between the
parties.” (Demurrer at p. 8:16-19.) But the Complaint does not appear to allege
that “plaintiff and defendant were court-appointed under the CJA,” as
Defendants contend. (Demurrer at p. 8:16.) 
            Defendants also contend that
“[u]nder the CJA system in federal court, court appointed attorneys do not
employ the court appointed paralegals who assist in criminal cases. They are
each independent professionals who provide services to, and are paid through,
the court. In order for plaintiff to work on a case as a paralegal, it is
necessary for the CJA attorney to apply to the court to get plaintiff
appointed.” (Demurrer at pp. 8:22-9:2.) In support of
this assertion, Defendants cite to Exhibit “A” to Defendants’ Request for
Judicial Notice, a document titled “United States District Court Central
District of California CACD Auth Form – Paralegal.” But the Court does not see
how this document shows that “no employer-employee relationship existed
between the parties,” as Defendants contend. (Demurrer at p. 8:17-19.)[2] 
Moreover, Plaintiff cites to Tenet Healthsystem Desert, Inc. v. Blue Cross of
California (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 821, 836, where the Court of Appeal noted that
“although the existence of a document, such as a document
recorded in the official records of a government body, may be judicially
noticeable, the truth of statements contained in the document and their proper interpretation are not subject
to judicial notice.” (Emphasis in original.) Defendants appear to request that the
Court take judicial notice of the truth of statements contained in the exhibits
attached to Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice. Defendants also appear to
request that the Court interpret the documents attached to Defendants’ Request
for Judicial notice to reach a conclusion regarding the alleged employment
relationship.  
            In
addition, Plaintiff notes in the opposition that her first cause of action for
hostile work environment harassment is alleged pursuant to Government Code section 12940, subdivision (j).  Under Government Code
section 12940, subdivision (j)(1), “[i]t is
an unlawful employment practice…(j)(1) For an employer, labor organization, employment agency,
apprenticeship training program or any training program leading to employment,
or any other person, because of race, religious creed, color, national origin,
ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, medical condition, genetic
information, marital status, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression,
age, sexual orientation, reproductive health decisionmaking, or veteran or
military status, to harass an employee, an applicant, an unpaid intern or
volunteer, or a person providing services pursuant to a contract.” (Emphasis added.) Plaintiff notes that the
Complaint alleges that “Plaintiff was an employee and/or providing
services under a contract to Defendants.” (Compl., ¶ 23.) 
            Defendants
also assert in the demurrer that “the first and second causes of action are
deficient on their face because the allegations are self-contradictory on the
element of an employer-employee relationship.” (Demurrer at p. 10:8-10.) 
            Defendants
point to paragraph 17 of the Complaint, which alleges that “Nicolaysen’s
text messages also began to suggest that Valdez only work on cases assigned to
Nicolaysen and that Valdez work exclusively for Nicolaysen.” (Compl., ¶ 17.) Defendants
contend that “Par 17 is an admission that plaintiff worked for other CJA
attorneys; thus, there was no employer-employee relationship with defendant.”
(Demurrer at p. 10:20-21.) But Plaintiff does not allege that she “worked for
other CJA attorneys.” As discussed, Plaintiff alleges that she “was a Criminal
Justice Act…paralegal working under and providing services to Nicolaysen - a
CJA Panel Attorney, and the Nicolaysen Law Firm.” (Compl., ¶ 10.) Moreover, as
noted by Plaintiff, “Defendants fail to explain…how Plaintiff working for
another employer somehow means Defendants are not Plaintiff’s employer.” (Opp’n
at p. 7:22-25.)
            Defendants also point to paragraph
19, which alleges that “[f]inally, when the sexually harassing communications
started to create a toxic working environment, Valdez withdrew from
Nicolaysen’s cases and ceased her paralegal work for Nicolaysen to her financial
detriment.” (Compl., ¶ 19.) Defendants contend that “[t]he statement, ‘Valdez
withdrew from Nicolaysen’s cases’, is an admission that plaintiff operated as
an independent service provider and thus contradicts the notion of an
employer-employee relationship.” (Demurrer at p. 11:6-9.) But again, Plaintiff
does not allege that she “operated as an independent service provider,” as
Defendants contend.  
            In light of the foregoing, the Court
does not find that Defendants have shown that the allegations of the first and
second causes of action “fail to establish an employer-employee relationship.”
(Demurrer at p. 8:5-6.) 
            Next, Defendants assert that “[a]n
essential element of the FCA is that ‘plaintiff was subjected to unwanted
harassing conduct because of his/her protected status.’ Pansini v. Burbank
Unified 24 25 Sch. Dist., 2023 Cal. Super. LEXIS 3896, *13-14. For the reasons
previously discussed, plaintiff cannot satisfy this requirement.” (Demurrer at
p. 11:22-27.) As an initial matter, it is unclear what “FCA” refers to, or how
it is relevant here. Plaintiff’s causes of action are alleged under the Fair Employment
and Housing Act. In addition, Defendants cite to Pansini v. Burbank Unified Sch. Dist., 2023 Cal. Super. LEXIS 3896, a non-binding trial court opinion.

            Defendants also argue that “the first and second causes
of action fail to sufficiently plead that the allegedly harassing conduct was
severe or pervasive.” (Demurrer at p. 12:7-8.) Defendants cite to Hope v.
California Youth Authority (2005) 134 Cal.App.4th 577, 588, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a]n employee claiming harassment based upon a hostile work
environment must demonstrate that the conduct complained of was severe
enough or sufficiently
pervasive to alter the conditions of employment and create a work environment
that qualifies as hostile or abusive to employees because of their [sexual
orientation]…” (Emphasis in original.)  The Hope Court noted that “[i]n
determining what constitutes ‘sufficiently pervasive’ harassment, the courts have
held that acts of harassment cannot be occasional, isolated, sporadic, or
trivial, rather the plaintiff must show a concerted pattern of harassment of a
repeated, routine or a generalized nature.” ((Ibid.)
In addition, the Hope Court noted that “[t]he plaintiff must prove that
the defendant’s conduct would have interfered with a reasonable employee’s work
performance and would have seriously affected the psychological well-being of a
reasonable employee and that [he] was actually offended.” (Ibid.)

            Defendants
contend that here, “the Complaint fails to allege facts showing that
defendant engaged in a concerted pattern of harassment of a repeated, routine
or a generalized nature which served to alter the conditions of employment and
create an abusive working environment; and that defendant’s conduct would have
interfered with a reasonable employee’s work performance and would have
seriously affected the psychological well-being of a reasonable employee and
that (plaintiff) was actually offended.” (Demurrer at p. 13:11-20 [internal
quotations omitted].) 
            But as
noted by Plaintiff, she alleges that “[f]rom January 2022 through March
2022, Nicolaysen sent Valdez several unsolicited text messages discussing his
desire for ‘Armenian hookers’, ‘concubines’ or ‘prostitutes.’ Nicolaysen made
these sexual comments not only in text messages, but also in person while
Nicolaysen and Valdez met for work-related purposes.” (Compl., ¶ 13.) Plaintiff
alleges that “[o]n one other occasion Nicolaysen physically touched Valdez on
her arm and back which resulted in Valdez visibly flinching from discomfort.
Valdez did not welcome or solicit this physical touching.” (Compl., ¶ 14.) 
Plaintiff also notes that she alleges that “[a]s the months went on,
Nicolaysen continued to send Valdez increasingly derogatory and sexually
harassing text messages. On one particularly egregious text thread Nicolaysen
responded to Valdez’s lighthearted comment about having a personal chef by
saying: ‘you don’t want someone to fillet your butt’ or ‘there are other ways
to sauté pussy.’” (Compl., ¶ 15.) In addition, Plaintiff alleges that “[t]he
text string continued with Nicolaysen explicitly telling Valdez that Nicolaysen
will ‘talk [Valdez] into conducting a risqué video meeting with [Nicolaysen]
one day and that will let out stress.’ Nicolaysen compounded the awful nature
of his texts by making telling Ms. Valdez that Nicolaysen will authorize Valdez
to receive ‘funding for [Valdez] to weed [wear] killer nylons’ during this
fantasy video meeting Nicolaysen wanted.” (Compl., ¶ 16.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “the sexually harassing communications started
to create a toxic working environment…” (Compl., ¶ 19.) Plaintiff also alleges
that “[t]he harassing conduct Plaintiff was subjected to was severe or
pervasive such that a reasonable person in Plaintiff’s circumstances would have
considered the working environment to be hostile, intimidating, offensive,
oppressive, and/or abusive,” and that “Plaintiff in fact believed her working
environment was hostile, intimidating, offensive, oppressive, and/or abusive.”
(Compl., ¶¶ 26, 27.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff as adequately
alleged “a concerted pattern of harassment of a
repeated…nature.” (Hope v. California Youth Authority, supra,
134 Cal.App.4th 577, 588.) The Court also finds that Plaintiff has
adequately alleged that “the defendant’s
conduct would have interfered with a reasonable employee’s work performance and
would have seriously affected the psychological well-being of a reasonable
employee and that [he] was actually offended.” (Ibid.)

            Defendants
also argue that the Complaint “fails to identify dates, locations or
circumstances regarding the alleged communications and conduct at issue,” and
that “[i]n failing to provide dates for the communications at issue, plaintiff
has failed to demonstrate that the texts were part of a ‘concerted pattern of
harassment of a repeated, routine or a generalized nature’ that was not merely
sporadic.” (Demurrer at p. 13:23-24; 13:27-14:2.) But as discussed, the Court
finds that Plaintiff as adequately alleged “a
concerted pattern of harassment of a repeated…nature.” (Hope v. California
Youth Authority, supra, 134 Cal.App.4th 577, 588.)
In addition,
Plaintiff notes that she alleges that she “started working for
Defendants in January 2022.” (Compl., ¶ 11.) In addition, Plaintiff alleges
that “[a]s soon as Plaintiff began to work for Defendants, Nicolaysen began to
groom Valdez for increasingly sexually explicit overtures by sending unsolicited
text messages…” (Compl., ¶ 12.) Plaintiff further alleges that “[o]n June 23,
2023, Plaintiff filed an administrative charge with the California Department
of Civil Rights and received a ‘Right to Sue’ letter…” (Compl., ¶ 20.) 
            Lastly, Defendants argue that “[a]n
essential element of the FCA is that ‘plaintiff was harmed’ and ‘the conduct
was a substantial factor in causing plaintiffs harm.’ Pansini, supra, 2023 19 Cal. Super. LEXIS 3896, at *13-14. For the
reasons previously discussed, plaintiff has failed to satisfy this
requirement.” (Demurrer at p. 14:16-21.) As discussed, it is unclear what “FCA”
refers to, and Pansini v.
Burbank Unified Sch. Dist., 2023 Cal.
Super. LEXIS 3896 is a non-binding trial court opinion. 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court overrules Defendants’
demurrer to the first and second causes of action of the Complaint. 
Motion to Strike 
A
court may strike any “¿irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading¿” or all or any part of a pleading “¿not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 436¿.) “¿The grounds for
a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 437¿.) 
Defendants
move to strike a number of allegations, including the allegations that “Plaintiff
Marita Valdez (‘Plaintiff’ or ‘Valdez’) who was formerly employed by Defendants
Gregory Nicolaysen, a Professional Law Corporation and Gregory Nicolaysen,”
that “Defendant Gregory Nicolaysen, a Professional Law Corporation…was
Plaintiff’s employer,” that “Defendant Gregory Nicolaysen (‘Nicolaysen’
collectively referred to with Nicolaysen Law Firm as ‘Defendants’)…was
Plaintiff’s employer,” and that “Plaintiff is informed and believes,
Defendants, and each of them, were also joint employers of Plaintiff as they
regularly received Plaintiff’s services. Thus, the individual Defendants are
also joint employers of Plaintiff. Accordingly, Defendants, and each of them,
should be held jointly liable to Plaintiff for the wrongful acts alleged
herein.” (Compl., ¶¶ 1, 2, 3, 9.) 
Plaintiff
also moves to strike the allegations that “Plaintiff was an
employee and/or providing services under a contract to Defendants,” and that
“[a]s a proximate result of Defendants’ wrongful conduct, Plaintiff has
suffered and continues to sustain substantial losses in earnings and other
employment benefits...” (Compl., ¶¶ 23, 29, 36.) 
Defendants
argue that the foregoing allegations should be stricken, because “[f]or
the reasons addressed in detail in the Demurrers, defendant respectfully
contends that, as a matter of law, no employer-employee relationship existed
between the parties.” (Mot. at p. 4:21-25, emphasis omitted.) As discussed
above, the Court does not find that Defendants demonstrated in the demurrer
that “no employer-employee relationship existed between the parties.” (Mot. at
p. 4:23-24.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court denies Defendants’ motion to strike.

Conclusion
Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ demurrer is overruled in its entirety. Defendants’
motion to strike is denied. 
The
Court orders Defendants to file and serve their answer to the Complaint within
10 days of the date of this order. 
Plaintiff is ordered to
give notice of this order.
 
 
DATED:  February 21, 2024                          ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


