 Case Number:  23STCV23194    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  85 
Constant v. The City of Los
Angeles, et al., 
23STCV23194

Tentative decision on motion to
dismiss: granted




 



Defendants/Respondents City of Los Angeles, City Council of
the City of Los Angeles, Los Angeles Department of Public Works; and Bureau of
Engineering (collectively, “City”) moves to dismiss with prejudice the verified
Petition and Complaint (“Petition”) filed by Plaintiff/Petitioner Nicholas
Robert Constant (“Constant”). 
The court has read and considered the moving papers and
reply (no opposition was filed) and renders the following tentative decision. 
 
A. Statement of
the Case
1. Petition
On September 25, 2023, Plaintiff/Petitioner Constant filed
the Petition against City, alleging causes of action for (1) violation of
California Environmental Quality Act (“CEQA”) and (2) declaratory relief.  The Petition alleges in pertinent part as
follows. 
Constant is a resident of Los Angeles County (“County”) and
owns a property that abuts Silver Lake Boulevard, directly across from the
Silver Lake Reservoir Complex (“Reservoir”). 
Pet., ¶1.  The Reservoir is a
127-acre property developed in a valley surrounded by a residential
neighborhood mainly consisting of single-family homes.  Pet., ¶20. 
The Reservoir was adopted as Los Angeles Monument Number 422 on March 3,
1989.  Pet., ¶20.  The Reservoir has been subject to various
modifications over the years but none of these modifications required decades
of construction time.  Pet., ¶22.
On or about March 2018, local politicians pushed to create a
decades-long “Master Plan” for the Reservoir (“Project”).  Pet., ¶23. 
The politicians partnered with the City’s Department of Water and Power
and architectural firm Hargreaves Jones. 
Pet., ¶23.  On January 6, 2022, the
City released a Notice of Preparation of a draft environmental impact report
(“DEIR”) for a comment period ending February 7, 2022.  Pet., ¶24. 
The DEIR indicated that the Project would increase particulate and ozone
precursor emissions compared to existing conditions, increase traffic, and
“result in less than-significant impacts with respect to CO hotspots.”  Pet., ¶25. 
This analysis was deeply flawed because it understated the Project’s potential
environmental impacts and failed to adopt feasible mitigation to reduce those
impacts.  Pet., ¶26.  The Reservoir is used both permanently and
seasonally by federally protected species, notably migratory birds.  Pet., ¶35.
Beginning October 6, 2022, Constant and other individuals
and groups commented on the DEIR, resulting in a 2000 plus page final EIR
(“FEIR”).  Pet., ¶36.  The FEIR was released to the public in July
2023, contained few substantive revisions and failed to meaningfully respond to
many of the DEIR comments submitted to the City.  Pet., ¶37. 

On August 4, 2023, the City’s Energy and Environment
Commission passed the FEIR on a 4-0 vote with Los Angeles Council District 4
Councilmember Nithya Raman abstaining due to ownership of private property
close to the Project.  Pet., ¶39.  On August 23, 2023, the City Council met to
consider the Project.  Pet., ¶40.  Despite large attendance for public comment,
a special vote was quickly taken to avoid public scrutiny and silence
whistleblowers.  Pet., ¶40.  The Project and FEIR were approved with a
unanimous vote, again with Councilmember Raman abstaining.  Pet., ¶41. 

On August 23, 2023, the City filed a Notice of Determination
for the Project.  Pet., ¶41.
Constant alleges that the City violated CEQA by certifying a
FEIR that (a) fails to adequately analyze and mitigate the following impacts:
wetlands, emissions, transportation, parking, future development, (b) provides
an inadequate and inaccurate baseline for analyzing the Project’s impacts, (c) provides
an inadequate, inaccurate, and unstable description of the Project (d) fails to
adequately consider the cumulative and growth inducing impacts of the Project
in a fully developed neighborhood primarily consisting of single-family homes,
(e) rejects feasible mitigation measures, and relies on ineffective,
unenforceable, and/or improperly deferred mitigation measures, (f) rejects
feasible Project alternatives that would have reduced significant impacts while
still meeting Project objectives, (g) adopts overly narrow, yet maximally
invasive recreational Project objectives over a “No Project” zero emission
alternative, (h) adopts findings not supported by substantial evidence, (i)
violates CEQA Guidelines section 15088 by failing to adequately respond to
public comments and (j) fails to use the County’s 2045 Climate Action Plan (“CAP”)
goals as a guide to collectively achieve required levels of greenhouse gas
reductions to zero.   Pet., ¶¶ 48-61.
Constant seeks declarations that the omission of the County’s
CAP from the FEIR does not comply with the standards set forth in the CEQA
Guidelines, including Guidelines section 15183.5(b), and that the City must
coordinate and use the County’s CAP guidelines to analyze the future Projects’
greenhouse gas impacts over the decades long Project timeline.  Pet., ¶¶ 62-63.
 
2. Course of the Proceedings 
On October 27, 2023, the City filed an Answer.
 
B. Applicable Law
“Any person
interested under a written instrument, excluding a will or a trust, or under a
contract, or who desires a declaration of his or her rights or duties with
respect to another, or in respect to, in, over or upon property, or with
respect to the location of the natural channel of a watercourse, may, in cases
of actual controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the respective
parties, bring an original action or cross-complaint in the superior court for
a declaration of his or her rights and duties in the premises, including a
determination of any question of construction or validity arising under the
instrument or contract. He or she may ask for a declaration of rights or
duties, either alone or with other relief; and the court may make a binding
declaration of these rights or duties, whether or not further relief is or
could be claimed at the time. The declaration may be either affirmative or
negative in form and effect, and the declaration shall have the force of a
final judgment. The declaration may be had before there has been any breach of
the obligation in respect to which said declaration is sought.”  CCP §1060.
 
C. Statement of Facts
The Project would
redesign 116 acres of the 127-acre Reservoir with nature-focused community park
amenities including park zones blending vegetated areas and areas to support
local and migrating fauna with public spaces. 
Weintraub Decl., ¶3.  The Project
would enhance the ecological, visual, and recreational quality of the area to
be consistent with the goals and objectives of the Community Plan and provide
the opportunity for the public to access natural park space.  Weintraub Decl., ¶3.  On August 23, 2023, the Project’s FEIR was
certified, and the Project was approved by the City Council, along with an
adoption of the Findings and Statement of Overriding Considerations and
mitigation Monitoring Program.  Weintraub
Decl., ¶4.
Currently, funding
is needed to complete detailed designs, construct and operate the Project.  Weintraub Decl., ¶5.  This present lawsuit is a factor in the
City’s pursuit of funding for the Project. 
Weintraub Decl., ¶6.  Therefore,
delays in the resolution of this action would almost certainly delay the
funding and implementation of the Project. 
Weintraub Decl., ¶6.
On October 24, 2023,
the court continued the trial setting conference to February 20, 2024, at the City’s
request and with the agreement of Constant to allow the City additional time to
prepare the administrative record.  Shyu
Decl., ¶10.  Since that date, the City has
attempted to meet and confer with Constant to reduce the scope of the
administrative record, but the parties were unable to reach an agreement.  Shyu Decl., ¶11.  The City has proceeded to prepare the
administrative record without reducing the scope and has so far compiled over
5000 documents from multiple City departments and personnel and nearly 40,000
emails, which all have to be reviewed for responsiveness and privilege and then
properly indexed.  Shyu Decl., ¶12.
On January 22, 2024, the City asked Constant to stipulate to
extend the LASC 3.232 record preparation deadlines and continue the trial
setting conference to May 21, 2024, or as soon thereafter as the court’s
schedule permits.  Shyu Decl., ¶13.  Constant agreed to the extension.  Shyu Decl., ¶13.  On January 29, 2024, the City sent to
Constant a stipulation and proposed order memorializing the agreement, but Constant
has not yet signed the stipulation.  Shyu
Decl., ¶14.  
The City has no record of a service copy by email, mail, or
otherwise of Constant’s mandatory request for hearing under Public Resources
Code (“Pub. Res. Code”) section 21167.4(a). 
Shyu Decl., ¶15.  The City notified
Constant that it had not received his mandatory request for hearing and did not
see such a document on the court’s online register of actions.  Shyu Decl., ¶16.  Petitioner responded that he would look into
the issue, and stated on January 29, 2024, that “[m]y calendar says this was
entered end of October”.  Shyu Decl.,
¶17, Ex. H.  
In correspondence with Constant regarding his failure to
file and serve an opposition to the present motion, Constant stated that he
would oppose the motion at oral argument on the hearing date.  Shyu Reply Decl., ¶2, Ex. A.
 
E. Analysis
The City filed its motion to dismiss on February 14,
2024.  At the February 20, 2024 trial
setting conference, the court continued the hearing on the City’s motion to
dismiss to the instant date and ordered Petitioner Constant’s opposition to be
filed and served by April 30.  No
opposition is on file.  
The Project is the Silver Lake Reservoir Complex Master
Plan, which involves redesigning 116 acres of the 127-acre Silver Lake
Reservoir Complex with nature-focused community park amenities.  Shyu Decl., Ex. A; Weintraub Decl., ¶3.  The City Council certified the EIR and approved
the Project on August 23, 2023.  See
Shyu Dec., Ex. D; Weintraub Decl., ¶4.  
Also on January 22, 2024, the City notified Petitioner that
it had not received his request for hearing under CEQA and did not see the
document on the court’s register of actions. 
Shyu Decl., ¶¶ 15-16.  Petitioner
responded that he would look into the issue, and stated on January 29, 2024,
that “[m]y calendar says this was entered end of October”.  Shyu Decl., ¶17, Ex. H.  Petitioner has not provided any evidence of
such a filing and there is no record that he filed and served a request for
hearing under section 21167.4.  Id.

CEQA actions must be prosecuted diligently, and Pub. Res.
Code section 21167.4(a) provides: 
 
“In any action or
proceeding alleging noncompliance with [CEQA], the petitioner shall request a
hearing within 90 days from the date of filing the petition or shall be subject
to dismissal on the court’s own motion or on the motion of any party interested
in the action or proceeding.” 
 
Pub. Res. Code Section 21167.4(a) is mandatory when a
petitioner fails to request a hearing on the writ within 90 days; the court
must dismiss the CEQA claim.  San
Franciscans for Reasonable Growth v. City and County of San Francisco,
(1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 498, 504; Fiorentino v. City of Fresno, (“Fiorentino”)
(2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 596, 603.  The
violation cannot be cured by a late filed request for hearing.  Fiorentino, supra, 150
Cal.App.4th at 600, 604.  This mandatory
dismissal for failure to request a hearing within 90 days is consistent with
the public policy of ensuring that challenges alleging an agency’s
noncompliance with CEQA will be heard quickly. 
See County of Orange v. Super. Ct. of Orange County,
(2003) 113 Cal.App.4th l, 12.
Petitioner brought this CEQA action on September 25, 2023
and failed to file a request for hearing within 90 days.  Dismissal of the first cause of action for
violation of CEQA therefore is mandatory under section 21167.4(a).  As the City argues, neither the parties’
negotiations over the record nor Petitioner Constant’s pro per status
affect this outcome.  See Rappleyea
v. Campbell, (11994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 984-85 (“[e]xcept when a
particular rule provides otherwise, the rules of civil procedure must apply
equally to parties represented by counsel and those who forgo attorney
representation”).    Mot. at 12-13.
Additionally, and although Petitioner argued otherwise at an
October 24, 2023 trial setting conference, the Petition’s second claim for
declaratory relief is subsumed within the CEQA claim.  In the first cause of action, the Petition
seeks a writ of mandate directing the City to vacate and set aside its
certification of the FEIR and Project approvals.  Shyu Decl., Ex. E, ¶¶ 48-56, 65-66.  In the second cause of action, the Petition
seeks declarations that (a) the Project FEIR’s omission of the County’s CAP “does
not fully comply with the standards set forth in CEQA Guidelines, including
Guidelines section 15183.5(b)”, and (b) the “City must coordinate and use the
County’s CAP guidelines to analyze the future Project’s greenhouse gas impacts
over the decades long Project timeline.” 
Ex E., ¶63.  Both aspects of the requested
declaratory relief must be determined as part of the CEQA evaluation of the FEIR
and therefore are not available for a declaratory judgment.  "The law is well established that an
action for declaratory relief is not appropriate to review an administrative
decision."  State of California
v. Superior Court (Veta) (1974) 12 Cal.3d 237, 249.  
 
F. Conclusion
The case is ordered dismissed with prejudice pursuant to Pub.
Res. Code section 21167.4(a).