  Case Number:  22CHCP00248    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  85 
Mosco, et al. v. County of Los
Angeles; 
22CHCP00248

Tentative decision on petition for traditional
writ of mandate:  granted in part




 



Petitioners Ben Mosco and Marla Mosco seek a traditional writ
of mandate commanding Respondent County of Los Angeles (“County”) to comply
with the California Public Records Act (“CPRA”). 
The court has read and considered the moving papers,
opposition, and reply, and renders the following tentative decision. 
 
A. Statement of
the Case
1. Petition 
Petitioners Mosco filed the Petition on July 12, 2022 against
Respondent County, alleging causes of action for violation of (1) California
Constitution art. I, section 3(b) and (2) the California Public Records Act (Government[1]
Code §6250, et seq.).  The
Petition alleges in pertinent as follows. 
On October 3, 2021, Los Angeles Sheriff Department (“LASD”) deputies
from the Santa Clarita Station shot and killed Petitioners’ son, Christopher
Mosco (sometimes “Christopher”) while he was having a mental health episode in
the Mosco home located at the 2400 block of Chicory Court, Stevenson Ranch, CA
91381.  Pet., ¶10.  Marla Mosco had called 911 that afternoon requesting
law enforcement personnel to come to the Mosco home and talk with Chrisopher and
calm him down as he was suffering from a mental health episode.  Pet., ¶11. 
When the LASD deputies arrived, they went to the trunks of their
vehicles and pulled out guns.  Pet.,
¶12.  As a result of their use of excessive
and unnecessary force, Christopher died, leaving behind a six-year old
daughter.  Pet., ¶¶ 12-13.
Petitioners Mosco retained the law firm of McMurray Henriks,
LLP to represent them in this instant matter. 
Pet., ¶14.  On October 14, 2021, Petitioners’
counsel issued a request for public records regarding the subject incident,
including the following: dispatch reports, incident reports, follow-up
investigation reports, officer narrative reports, officer statements, use of
force reports, witness statements, notes, charts, diagrams, audio or visual
recordings of 911 calls/dispatch communications/officer statements/witness
statements, surveillance footage, body camera footage, and dashcam
footage.  Pet., ¶14, Ex. A.  The request also sought records of disciplinary
actions, corrective actions, and prior use of force by the LASD deputies involved
in the incident.  Pet., ¶14.  LASD received the demand letter on October
20, 2021.  Pet., ¶14.
The documents requested in Petitioners’ CPRA request are
known to be maintained by sheriff/police departments in ordinary course of
business and are required to be disclosed pursuant to the section 6259.  Pet., ¶24. 
Respondent County is withholding use of force reports and camera footage
for the sole and improper purpose of delaying and/or hindering a potential
civil suit against it.  Pet., ¶23.  The County patently violated section 6253(c)
by asserting an investigatory privilege. 
Pet., ¶26.  The County has failed
to identify with specificity what records it has determined to be related to
the criminal investigation and who is being investigated, so the investigation exception
to production does not apply.  Pet.,
¶24.  The County failed to respond with
the specific reasons for its refusal to disclose records -- specifically the
body worn camera footage -- as required by the CPRA.  Pet., ¶26.
Access to and inspection of the documents which are subject
of this Petition is in furtherance of the public’s interest in that the public
has a right under the CPRA to be informed of the actions and conduct of LASD and
its deputies.  Pet., ¶27.  Petitioners have no alternative method to
compel the County to perform its duty of allowing disclosure of the documents
requested.  Pet., ¶28.  LASD will continue to refuse to permit the
public, including Petitioners Mosco, to inspect or obtain copies of the requested
public records in violation of the CPRA. 
Pet., ¶29.
Petitioners Mosco seek a peremptory writ of mandate
directing Respondent County to make all requested documents available for
inspection within ten days of this court’s order directing it to do so.  Pet., at 11. 
Petitioners also seek (1) a declaration pursuant to section 6259 that
Respondent County has violated Petitioners’ rights under the CPRA and California
Constitution art. I, section 3 by failing to produce body camera footage and other
responsive documents; (2) costs and attorneys’ fees pursuant to section
6259(d); and (3) other relief as this court deems just and proper.  Pet., at 11.
 
2. Course of Proceedings 
On September 1, 2022, Respondent County filed an Answer. 
On April 4, 2023, the parties stipulated to transfer this
action from Chatsworth Courthouse Department F49 to Stanley Mosk Courthouse
Department 85. 
 
B. Standard of
Review 
            A
party may seek to set aside an agency decision by petitioning for either a writ
of administrative mandamus (CCP §1094.5) or of traditional mandamus.  CCP
§1085.  A petition for traditional mandamus is appropriate in all actions
“to compel the performance of an act which the law specially enjoins as a duty
resulting from an office, trust, or station....”  CCP §1085.   
            A
traditional writ of mandate under CCP section 1085 is the method of compelling
the performance of a legal, ministerial duty.  Pomona Police Officers’
Assn. v. City of Pomona, (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 578, 583-84. 
Generally, mandamus will lie when (1) there is no plain, speedy, and adequate
alternative remedy, (2) the respondent has a duty to perform, and (3) the
petitioner has a clear and beneficial right to performance.  Id. at
584 (internal citations omitted).  Whether a statute imposes a ministerial
duty for which mandamus is available, or a mere obligation to perform a
discretionary function, is a question of statutory interpretation.  AIDS
Healthcare Foundation v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Public Health, (2011)
197 Cal.App.4th 693, 701. 
            Where
a duty is not ministerial and the agency has discretion, mandamus relief is
unavailable unless the petitioner can demonstrate an abuse of that
discretion.  Mandamus will not lie to compel the exercise of a public
agency’s discretion in a particular manner.  American Federation of
State, County and Municipal Employees v. Metropolitan Water District of
Southern California, (2005) 126 Cal.App.4th 247, 261.  It is available
to compel an agency to exercise discretion where it has not done so (Los
Angeles County Employees Assn. v. County of Los Angeles, (1973) 33
Cal.App.3d 1, 8), and to correct an abuse of discretion actually exercised. 
Manjares v. Newton, (1966) 64 Cal.2d 365, 370-71.  In making this
determination, the court may not substitute its judgment for that of the
agency, whose decision must be upheld if reasonable minds may disagree as to
its wisdom.  Id. at 371.  An agency decision is an abuse of
discretion only if it is “arbitrary, capricious, entirely lacking in
evidentiary support, unlawful, or procedurally unfair.”  Kahn v. Los
Angeles City Employees’ Retirement System, (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 98,
106.  A writ will lie where the agency’s discretion can be exercised only
in one way.  Hurtado v. Superior Court, (1974) 11 Cal.3d 574, 579. 
            No
administrative record is required for traditional mandamus to compel
performance of a ministerial duty or as an abuse of discretion.  
 
            C.
Governing Law 
            1. The California
Constitution
            The people have the
constitutional right of access to information concerning the conduct of the
people's business, and, therefore, the meetings of public bodies and the
writings of public officials and agencies shall be open to public scrutiny.  Cal. Const. art. 1, §3(b)(1).  A statute, court rule, or other authority shall
be broadly construed if it furthers the people's right of access, and narrowly
construed if it limits the right of access. 
Cal. Const. art. 1, §3(b)(2).  If
a statute, court rule, or other authority adopted after the effective date of
this subdivision of the constitution limits the right of access, it shall be
adopted with findings demonstrating the interest protected by the limitation
and the need for protecting that interest. 
Cal. Const. art. 1, §3(b)(2).  
 
            2. The CPRA 
The CPRA,
located at section 7920 et
seq. (formerly 6250 et seq.)[2] was enacted in 1968 to
safeguard the accountability of government to the public.  San Gabriel Tribune v. Superior Court,
(1983) 143 Cal.App.3d 762, 771-72.  The
CPRA’s purpose is to increase freedom of information by giving the public
access to information in the possession of public agencies.  CBS. Inc. v. Block, (1986) 42 Cal.3d
646, 651. The CPRA was intended to safeguard the accountability of government
to the public, and it makes public access to governmental records a fundamental
right of citizenship. Wilson v. Superior Court, (1996) 51 Cal.App.4th
1136, 1141. This requires maximum disclosure of the conduct of government
operations.  California State
University Fresno Assn., Inc. v. Superior Court (“California State
University”), (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 810, 823. 
The CPRA makes clear that “every person” has a right to
inspect any public record. §7922.525(a) (former §6253(a)). The term “public
record” is broadly defined to include “any writing containing information
relating to the conduct of the people’s business prepared, owned, used or
retained by any state or local agency regardless of physical form or
characteristics. §7920.530 (former §6252(e)). 
Upon receiving a request for a copy of public records, the agency
shall determine within ten days whether the request seeks public records in the
possession of the agency that are subject to disclosure, though that deadline
may be extended up to 14 days for “unusual circumstances.” (§7922.535(a), (b))
(former §6253(c)).  If the agency
determines that the request for records is denied in whole or in part, the
agency must respond in writing and justify withholding any record by
demonstrating that the record is exempt or that the facts of the case the
public interest served by not disclosing clearly outweighs the public interest
in disclosure.  §§ 7922.540, 7922.000 (former
§6255(a)).
If the agency determines that the requested records are
subject to disclosure, it shall make the records promptly available upon
payment of fees for direct costs of duplication or a statutory fee, if
applicable.  §7911.530.  There is no deadline expressed in a number of
days for producing the records.  Rather, section
7911.530 says the agency “shall make the records promptly available.” Section
7922.500 (former §6253(d)) provides that nothing in the CPRA “shall be
construed to permit an agency to delay or obstruct the inspection or copying of
public records.”
“Records requests . . . inevitably impose some burden on
government agencies.  An agency is
obliged to comply so long as the record can be located with reasonable effort.”
California First Amendment Coalition v. Superior Court, (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 159, 165-66.  “Reasonable
efforts do not require that agencies undertake extraordinarily extensive or
intrusive searches, however. [Citation.] In general, the scope of an agency’s
search for public records ‘need only be reasonably calculated to locate
responsive documents.’” City of San Jose v. Superior Court, (“City of
San Jose”) (2017) 2 Cal.5th 608, 627. The “CPRA does not prescribe specific
methods of searching for those documents.  Agencies may develop their own internal
policies for conducting searches.  Some
general principles have emerged, however.  Once an agency receives a CPRA request, it
must ‘communicate the scope of the information requested to the custodians of
its records,’ although it need not use the precise language of the request.
[Citation.].” Ibid.
 
3. Exemptions
            The
right to inspect is subject to certain exemptions, which are narrowly
construed.  California State
University, supra, 90 Cal.App.4th at 831.  The burden of demonstrating that exemptions
apply lies with the governmental entity. 
§7922.000.  Aside from a defined
exemption, the entity can demonstrate that on the facts of the particular case
the public interest served by not disclosing the record clearly outweighs the
public interest served by disclosure of the record.  Id.
 
a. Section 7923.600 (Former §6254(f)) 
Section 7923.600(a) (former
§6254(f)) exempts from disclosure “[r]ecords of complaints to, or
investigations conducted by any state or local police agency….[and]
investigatory…files complied by any…local agency for correctional, law
enforcement, or licensing purposes….” 
This provision protects both records of investigation and investigatory
files.  Williams v. Superior Court,
(“Williams”) (1993) 5 Cal.4th 337, 341. The exemption
protects witnesses, victims, and investigators, secures evidence and investigative
techniques, encourages candor, recognizes the rawness and sensitivity of
information in criminal investigations, and effectively makes such
investigations possible.  Dixon v.
Superior Court, (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 1271, 1276 (coroner and
autopsy reports in investigative file were exempt).[3]
 
(i). Investigatory
Files
The exemption for investigatory files serves an important
purpose and is broad in nature.  Williams,
supra, 5 Cal.4th at 349, 356. 
Even though a document does not on its face purport to be an
investigatory record, it may have extraordinary significance to the
investigation warranting exemption.  Id.  Instead of adopting the federal Freedom of
Information Act’s (“FOIA”) case-by-case approach with specific criteria to
determine the exemption, the Legislature provided for the complete exemption of
such files, with disclosure of information derived from the records.  Id. at 350, 353 (criminal
investigatory file of two deputy sheriffs). 

Information in a file is investigatory material only when
the prospect of enforcement proceedings becomes “concrete and definite”.  Williams, supra, 5 Cal.4th at
355 (citing Uribe v. Howie, (1971) 19 Cal.App.3d 194).  The investigatory file exemption does not
terminate when the investigation ends; documents properly in the file remain
exempt.  Rackauckas v. Superior Court, (“Rackauckas”)
(2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 169, 174.  A file is investigatory only if the prospect of law
enforcement is “definite and concrete” and the record properly belongs in the
file because it relates to the investigation. 
Copley Press, Inc. v. Superior Court, (2006) 39 Cal.4th
1272, 1293. 
 
(ii).
Records of Investigation 
In contrast to investigatory files, “records of investigation” are exempt on their face whether or
not included in an investigatory file.  Haynie
v. Superior Court, (“Haynie”) (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1061, 1068-69.  Records of investigation do not lose their
exempt status based on the prospect of enforcement.  Law enforcement officers may not know whether
a crime has been committed when they undertake an investigation, and the results
may be inconclusive.  For example, a fire
may be suspicious but found to be accidental after investigation.  Id. at 1070.  Even reports from routine investigations such
as traffic stops are protected.  Id.
at 1070-71.  
“[R]ecords of
investigation exempted under [former] section 6254(f) encompass only those
investigations undertaken for the
purpose of determining whether a violation of law may occur or has
occurred.  If a violation or potential
violation is detected, the exemption also extends to records of investigations
conducted for the purpose of uncovering information surrounding the
commission of the violation and its agency.” 
American Civil Liberties Union Foundation of Southern California v.
Superior Court,  (2017) 3 Cal.5th 1032, 1040, 1042 (LAPD’s records
from scanning license plates to look for stolen cars through automated license
plate reader technology were not records of investigation because they were not
part of targeted inquiry into particular crime). 
 
b. Penal Code
Section 832.7
Notwithstanding
section 7923.600 or any other law, a record relating to the report,
investigation, or findings of (i) an incident involving the discharge of  a firearm at a person by a peace officer, (ii)
an incident involving the use of force against a person by a peace officer that
resulted in death or great bodily injury, (iii) a sustained finding of
unreasonable or excessive force, or (iv) a sustained finding that an officer
failed to intervene shall be disclosed under the CPRA.   Penal Code §832.7(b)(1)(A).
 “An agency shall redact a record disclosed
pursuant to this section only
for any of the following purposes: (A) [t]o remove personal data or
information, such as a home address, telephone number, or identities of family
members, other than the names and work-related information of peace and
custodial officers…(B) [t]o preserve the anonymity of whistleblowers,
complainants, victims, and witnesses…(C) [t]o protect confidential medical,
financial, or other information of which disclosure is specifically prohibited
by federal law or would cause an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy that
clearly outweighs the strong public interest in records about possible
misconduct and use of force by peace officers and custodial officers…(D) [w]here
there is a specific, articulable, and particularized reason to believe that
disclosure of the record would pose a significant danger to the physical safety
of the peace officer, custodial officer, or another person.”  Penal Code §832.7(b)(6).
“Notwithstanding
paragraph (6), an agency may redact a record disclosed pursuant to this section, including personal identifying information,
where, on the facts of the particular case, the public interest served by not
disclosing the information clearly outweighs the public interest served by
disclosure of the information.”  Penal
Code §832.7(b)(7).
An agency may
withhold a record of an incident that is the subject of an active criminal or
administrative investigation as follows: During an active investigation,
disclosure may be delayed for 60 days from the date of misconduct or use of
force or until the district attorney determines whether to file criminal
charges, whichever occurs sooner.  The
agency shall provide the specific basis in writing for its determination that a
delay in disclosure outweighs the public interest in disclosure.  Penal Code §832.7(b)(8)(A)(i).  After 60 days from the misconduct or use of
force, the agency may continue to delay disclosure if it could reasonably be
expected to interfere with a criminal enforcement proceeding against the
officer.  The agency shall, at 180-day
intervals, provide in writing the specific basis for its determination that disclosure
could reasonably be expected to interfere with a criminal enforcement
proceeding.  The writing shall include
the estimated date of disclosure.  The information
shall be disclosed when the specific basis for withholding is resolved, when
the investigation or proceeding is no longer active, or by no later than 18
months after the incident, whichever occurs first.  Penal Code §832.7(b)(8)(A)(ii).  
 
c. Section 7927.700 (Employee Confidential
Information)
Personnel, medical, or similar files are exempt when their
disclosure would constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy.  §7927.700. 
The home addresses, home telephone numbers, personal cellular telephone
numbers, and birthdates of all employees of a public agency shall not be deemed
to be public records or open to public inspection except in particular
circumstances.  §7928.300(a).
In City of
San Jose, supra, 2 Cal.5th at 608, the California Supreme
Court held that while city employees’ private voicemails, e-mails, and text
messages relating to city business may be subject to disclosure under the CPRA,
“[a]ny personal information not related to the conduct of public business, or
material falling under a statutory exemption, can be redacted from public
records that are produced or presented for review.”  Id. at 625-26.  See also Labor & Workforce
Development Agency v. Superior Court, (2018) 19 Cal. App. 5th 12, 31 (describing
City of San Jose as not wanting to “allow evasion of [the CPRA] simply
by the use of a personal account”).  
 
d. Section 7923.625
(Redacted Video and Audio Recordings)
Notwithstanding any other
provision of the CPRA, a video or audio recording that relates to a critical
incident may be withheld during an active criminal or administrative
investigation if disclosure would substantially interfere with the
investigation, but disclosure of the recording may be delayed for no longer
than 45 days after the agency knew about the incident.  §7923.625(a)(1). 
After 45 days, the agency
may continue to delay disclosure for up to one year from the incident date if
it demonstrates that disclosure would substantially interfere with the
investigation.  After one year, the
agency may continue to delay disclosure only if it demonstrates by clear and
convincing evidence that disclosure would interfere with the investigation.  The agency shall promptly inform the
requester in writing the specific basis for this determination and provide the
estimated date for disclosure.  The
agency shall reassess the withhold and notify the requester every 30 days.  §7923.625(a)(2).
If the agency demonstrates
that the public interest in withholding an audio or video clearly outweighs the
public interest in disclosure because it would violate the reasonable
expectation of privacy of a subject depicted in the recording, the agency shall
inform the requester in writing the specific basis therefore and may redact to
obscure the specific portions of the recording that protect that interest.  §7923.625(b)(1).
 
e. Section 922.000 (Catch-All)
Section 7922.000 is the
CPRA’s catch-all provision and “contemplates a case-by-case balancing process,
with the burden of proof on the proponent of nondisclosure to demonstrate a
clear overbalance on the side of confidentiality.”  Michaelis v.
Superior Court, (2006) 38 Cal.4th 1066, 1071.  The court must balance
the public interest in disclosure against the privacy interests, evaluating the
weight of the public interest by the gravity of the public tasks sought to be
illuminated and the directness with which the disclosure will illuminate those
tasks.  See Humane Society of the United States v. Superior
Court, (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 12133, 1267-68
 
4. Enforcement
A CPRA claim to compel compliance with a public records
request may proceed through either mandamus or declaratory relief.  §7923.000. Because the petitioner may proceed
through either mandamus or declaratory relief, the trial court independently
decides whether disclosure is required.  See City of San Jose v. Superior
Court, (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1018 (appellate court independently
reviews trial court CPRA decision).  No
administrative record is required, and the parties must submit admissible
evidence.
            Section 7923.000
authorizes a mandamus writ only when “public records are being improperly
withheld from a member of the public”. 
The CPRA remedy is available only to a person who is seeking
disclosure of public records and only where the public entity is
allegedly improperly withholding those records. 
County of Santa Clara v. Superior Court, (“County of Santa
Clara”) (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 119, 126. 
If the court finds that the public official’s decision to refuse
disclosure is not justified, the court shall order the public official to make
the record public.  §7923.110(a).  The CPRA provides no judicial remedy
for any other purpose or entity or a remedy that may be utilized for any
purpose other than to determine whether a particular record or class of records
must be disclosed.”  Id. at 127
(emphasis in original).
If the requestor prevails in such litigation, the court
shall award court costs and reasonable attorney’s fees, to be paid by the
public agency at issue. 
§7923.115(a).  If the case was
clearly frivolous, the court shall award court costs and reasonable attorney’s
fees to the public agency.  §7923.115(b).
 
D. Statement of Facts
On October 3, 2021, LASD’s Homicide Bureau opened a criminal
investigation into the incident involving Christopher Mosco's suspected assault
with a deadly weapon on peace officers and the actions of LASD deputies that
led to the shooting of Christopher by two of the deputies (the “incident”).  Modica Decl., ¶2.
 
1. Petitioners’
Evidence
Petitioners’ first CPRA request was sent
to LASD and the County on October 14, 2021. 
Henriks Decl., ¶3, Ex. 1.  
In an October 29, 2021 response,
LASD stated that, for requests 2 and 4 through 7, “[t]The requested records are
part of an ongoing and active criminal investigation and are therefore exempt
from disclosure under [citations]…..” Henriks Decl., ¶4, Ex. 2. The response
stated that records responsive to requests 3 and 8 through 13 would be released
as they become available on LASD’s public website.  Id.
On
November 1, 2021, County Counsel stated that the County would require a 14-day
extension to respond by November 15, 2021. Henriks Decl., ¶5, Ex. 3.  No further response was made in November
2021.  Id., ¶6.
Petitioners
made a second CPRA request for the same records on December 13, 2021.  Henriks Decl., ¶7.  
On
December 22, 2021, County Counsel stated that the County required a 14-day
extension to respond, by January 10, 2022, to Petitioners’ renewed request for
the same records.  Henriks Decl., ¶8, Ex.
5.
On
January 4, 2022, County Counsel responded within the timeframe of the 14-day extension.  Counsel stated that the County was “still in
the process of searching for, pulling, collecting, and reviewing potentially
responsive records,” and that “[o]nce our review has been completed, you will
be notified.”  Henriks Decl., ¶9, Ex. 6.
On
February 8, 2022, LASD released the names of the two deputies who shot Christopher
Marcos, stating, inter alia, that “[t]he requested records are part of
an ongoing and active criminal investigation by the Los Angeles County District
Attorney's Office, and therefore are exempt from disclosure….The aforementioned
reasons for preventing interference with this active investigation outweigh
public interest in disclosure in the requested records. The Department intends
to comply with your requests to the extent that it possesses records that are
not otherwise exempt from disclosure.…We estimate that we will be able to
produce responsive records in or about 18 months. We will update you as to any
changes to our estimated production date in 180 days.”  Henriks Decl,, ¶10, Ex. 7.  
On
June 21, 2022, Petitioners’ counsel sent follow-up correspondence noting the
inadequacies of LASD’s February 8 response. 
Henriks Decl., ¶11, Ex. 8.
On
July 1, 2022, LASD sent a letter disagreeing with Petitioners regarding the adequacy
of its responses, referred Petitioners to the justifications provided in its
February 8, 2022 response, and reiterated the estimated timelines for
production of 18 months and an update in 180 days.  Henriks Decl., ¶12, Ex. 9.  
On July 12, 2022, Petitioners Mosco filed the instant Petition
for writ of mandate.  Henriks Decl., ¶13.  
On June 2, 2023, during a meet and confer call between
counsel, the County’s attorney indicated for the first time that the
“exemption” to disclosure of the documents no longer existed and that records
would be produced.  Henriks Decl.,
¶14.  On June 6, 2023, during a trial setting
conference, the County’s attorney indicated that responsive written information
to Petitioners’ requests would be provided by July 7, 2023.  Henriks Decl., ¶15.  No records were provided in July 2023 despite
multiple follow ups from Petitioners’ counsel. 
Henriks Decl., ¶16, Ex. 10.
On August 9, 2023, Respondent County finally released some
records.  Henriks Decl., ¶¶17, 24, Exs.
11, 16.
On September 6, 2023, the County provided additional records
and noted that more would be provided on a rolling basis.  Henriks Decl., ¶18, Ex. 12.
On October 30, 2023, the County provided additional videos
and noted more would be forthcoming. 
Henriks Decl., ¶19, Ex. 13.
On November 22, 2023, the County indicated that the
remaining responsive materials would be produced after the Thanksgiving
holiday, and that it considered the request to be resolved at that point.  Henriks Decl., ¶20, Ex. 14.
The materials Petitioners Mosco received from the County
contained major, unreasonable redactions that effectively rendered some of the
records meaningless.  Henriks Decl.,
¶21.  On December 13, 2023, the parties
met and conferred in an attempt to resolve this issue, and the County’s attorney
indicated that he would speak with his client to determine whether it could
unredact produced documents.  Henriks Decl.,
¶21.  
On January 9, 2024, the County’s attorney sent a letter
identifying additional LASD deputies involved in the shooting, and agreeing to
unredact certain documents only if Petitioners Mosco signed a waiver/release
and agree to indemnify the County if it is sued by third parties whose personal
information was released.  Henriks Decl.,
¶22, Ex. 15.  Petitioners could not agree
to these terms because there is no need for the information to be posted on
LASD’s website and the unredacted information is in public view.  Henriks Decl., ¶23.  
 
2. The County’s
Evidence 
a. The Criminal Investigation
On July 13, 2022, the Homicide Unit’s investigation into the
incident was forwarded to the Los Angeles County District Attorney’s Office,
Justice System Integrity Division (“JSID”) for JSID’s review and evaluation as
to whether to pursue criminal charges against the deputies involved in the
shooting.  Modica Decl., ¶3.  Forwarding the Homicide Unit’s investigation
to JSID after a deputy-involved shooting is standard procedure for the Homicide
Unit.  Modica Decl., ¶3.  
 
b. Correspondence and the Trial Setting Conference
On June 2, 2023, a former associate in the law firm
representing the County, Daniel Seitz, Esq. (“Seitz”), relayed to Petitioners’
counsel that LASD had determined that some records related to the incident,
such as an incident report, coroner’s report, other related paper records, and
some video records, need not be delayed from disclosure any longer and that
LASD was reviewing the records and applying legally required and permissible
redactions in preparation for disclosure to Petitioners.  Sheldon Decl., ¶3.  Seitz also advised that one of the bases for
LASD invoking the disclosure delay provisions contained in applicable law --
e.g., Penal Code section 832.7(b)(8) -- was that there was an active
investigation into the conduct of the two deputies who shot at Christopher during
the incident.  Sheldon Decl., ¶3.  
On June 6, 2023, during a trial setting conference, Seitz gave
the court an estimated July 7, 2023 production date for responsive paper
records.  Although the County was still
identifying responsive audio and video recordings, those records could
potentially be produced by September 15, 2023. 
Sheldon Decl., ¶4.
On August 9, 2023, the County’s attorney provided an update
letter to Petitioners’ counsel, and sent a portion of responsive records that
had been reviewed for necessary and permissible redactions and were no longer
subject to applicable delay provisions. 
Sheldon Decl., ¶5, Ex. A.  The
records were sent via two compact discs by mail and contained the Homicide
Bureau file related to the incident (121 pages) and three audio
recordings.  The letter also contained
two notes that “the Department applied redactions to ensure compliance with the
California Public Records Act, including but not limited to Government Code
sections 7922.000, 7927.700, and 7927.705, and Penal Code section 832.7(b)(6)
and (b)(7)” and that the “records were previously withheld from disclosure
pursuant to the delay provisions in section 7923.625 and Penal Code section
832.7(b)(8), which authorize delays in disclosure due to pending and active
criminal investigations, in this case those performed by the Department’s
Homicide Bureau and the District Attorney’s Office’s Justice System Integrity
Division.”  Sheldon Decl., ¶5.  The letter further indicated that LASD had
additional video and audio files which may be responsive but superfluous
because they consisted of audio recordings corresponding to several of the
interviews included in the Homicide Bureau file that was disclosed with the
letter, and several video recordings recovered from nearby residences as part
of the criminal investigation.  Sheldon Decl.,
¶5.  The letter sought to confirm
Petitioners’ desire for these files as they would have to be reviewed and
redacted in accordance with applicable law prior to disclosure.  Sheldon Decl., ¶5.
On September 6, 2023, Seitz provided a letter to update Petitioners’
counsel, and enclosed another portion of LASD’s responsive records in the form
of two additional compact discs containing three audio recordings of witness
interviews and ten video recordings from private security cameras.  Sheldon Decl., ¶6, Ex. B.  The letter also noted the redactions made to
the records and cited supporting authority for those redactions.  Sheldon Decl., ¶6.  The letter further noted that remaining
records would be produced on a rolling basis as they become available, but
there were approximately 100 short video recordings remaining, the review of
which was costly and time-consuming. 
Sheldon Decl., ¶6.
On October 30, 2023, the County’s attorney provided a letter
to update Petitioners’ counsel, and enclosed another portion of responsive
records in the form of one compact disc with 21 additional video recordings
from the approximately 100 video recordings remaining.  Sheldon Decl., ¶7, Ex. C.  The letter noted the redactions to the
records and the supporting authority for those redactions and indicated that
more records would be forthcoming. 
Sheldon Decl., ¶7.
On November 22, 2023, the County’s attorney provided a
letter to update Petitioners’ counsel, and enclosed the last portion of
responsive records in the form of an internet hyperlink where Petitioners could
download responsive records.  Sheldon Decl.,
¶8, Ex. D.  The letter noted the
redactions made to the records and cited supporting authority for those
redactions.  Sheldon Decl., ¶8.  The letter also indicated that the same
materials were being sent to Petitioners’ counsel in the form of 24 compact
discs, gave a breakdown of the contents of the discs, and noted that the County
considered Petitioners’ requests to be resolved.  Sheldon Decl., ¶8.
On January 11, 2024, the County’s attorney attended the
trial setting conference along with his colleague.  Sheldon Decl., ¶9.  During the conference, Petitioners’ counsel
argued that they were entitled to additional disclosures and that redactions to
records made by the County were improper. 
Sheldon Decl., ¶9.  More
specifically, Petitioners’ counsel argued that they were entitled to the names,
badge numbers, and employee numbers of all deputies who responded to the incident,
any additional body camera footage from the incident or a declaration stating
there is no additional footage, and, except for photos of Christopher Mosco,
the removal of all redactions from previously disclosed records, including
everything that was outdoors and visible to the public such as neighbors' house
numbers and license plate numbers. 
Sheldon Decl., ¶9.  The County’s attorney
indicated that they would review these requests with the County but also believed
that the redactions were legally justified and made in good faith.  Sheldon Decl., ¶9.
On January 9, 2024, the County’s attorney provided a letter
to update Petitioners’ counsel, identifying additional LASD deputies who
responded to the incident but were not part of the shooting.  Sheldon Decl., ¶10, Ex. E.  The letter also indicated that the County
would agree to unredact certain documents if Petitioners agreed to sign a
waiver/release in which they: (1) agree to have their personal information
released (which includes photographs of the home showing prescription drug
labels, location of valuables, family photos, and so forth) knowing that these
records will become publicly accessible after release to Petitioners, and (2)
agree to indemnify the County if it is sued by third parties whose personal
information was released pursuant to Petitioners’ counsel’s demands (e.g.,
neighbors’ faces, license plate numbers, and house numbers).  Sheldon Decl., ¶10.  The letter further provided a list of the
information the County was legally required to redact and cited the authority
for those redactions.  Sheldon Decl.,
¶10.  The January 9, 2024 letter enclosed
a declaration of the County’s custodian of records which detailed the dates
that the deputies involved in the incident were issued body-worn cameras.  Sheldon Decl., ¶11, Ex. F.  The declaration also gave specific reasons
why disclosure of the name and personal information of one LASD officer would
pose a significant danger to the officer’s physical safety.  Sheldon Decl., ¶11.
 
c. Redactions
LASD employee numbers are distinct from a deputy’s badge
number and are not displayed on an employee’s uniform.  Aguirre Decl., ¶13.  These numbers give access to certain
confidential law enforcement databases, such as the California Law Enforcement
Telecommunications System (“CLETS”), which contain confidential information
such as criminal history and driver records of members of the public.  Aguirre Decl., ¶13.  The employee number is also used by LASD
employees to access Human Resources databases containing their confidential
personnel records such as performance evaluations, medical benefits, and 401(k).  Aguirre Decl., ¶13.  As such, disclosure of the employee numbers
would reveal part of the login information used for these confidential
databases, and therefore increase the potential for an attack on an Information
Technology system of the County.  Aguirre
Decl., ¶13.
LASD redacted photos showing faces of deputies because the
public would be able to use the photos to aggregate and compile any information
available about an officer into a single publicly accessible database.  This includes “doxing” -- the intentional
publication of a person’s private information online without their consent as
part of concerted efforts to harass and harm an officer and their family.  Aguirre Decl., ¶14.  Thus, LASD made these redactions over concern
that the release of the photos would contribute to websites that offer bounties
or financial rewards for the killing of peace officers and that the disclosed
photos could be used to scan databases and pull deputies’ personal
information.  Aguirre Decl., ¶14.
As of April 11, 2024, JSID’s evaluation and further
investigation is continuing, and the District Attorney’s Office has neither
decided to pursue criminal charges against the involved deputies nor has it
issued notification to LASD that it will not be filing criminal charges.  Modica Decl., ¶3.
 
E. Analysis
            Petitioners
contend that (1) LASD unreasonably delayed in producing responsive documents, (2)
certain groups of redacted documents that were produced must be unredacted, and
(3) they are entitled to attorney fees for causing LASD’s production.
 
1.
Delay in Production
Petitioners argue that, by producing responsive documents after two years
of stonewalling, the County effectively concedes that the records were subject
to disclosure but argues that the significant delay was justified.  In August 2023, the County finally produced
documents that it claimed it was justified in delaying and withholding due to
an “ongoing criminal investigation.” 
Henriks Decl., ¶¶ 12-17, Exs. 9-11.  Upon review of the documents, it is apparent
that the “criminal investigation” was whether the deceased Christopher Mosco
committed an assault with a deadly weapon on Deputies Hernandez and
Wheatcroft.  Henriks Decl., ¶24,
Ex. 16.  A dead person cannot be charged
with a crime.  Pet. Op. Br. at 8.
Further, the disclosed records
demonstrate that the last investigative report was finalized on June 7, 2022, and
the majority of files had been completed by January of 2022.  Henriks Decl., ¶24, Ex. 16, pp.2-3.  There is no indication that any evidence or
investigation was ever presented to the District Attorney or that any
contemplation of charges ever took place. 
See generally Ex. 16. There is even less reason to withhold
disclosure of public records for more than a year after any investigatory
action had concluded.  Pet. Op. Br. at 8.
The County cannot generally state
that all responsive records are exempt from disclosure simply because they may
be part of an “investigatory file” and/or administrative review.  See Haynie, supra, 26
Cal.4th at 1069, 1071.  Moreover, a
public agency may not “shield a record from public disclosure, regardless of
its nature, simply by placing it in a file labeled ‘investigatory.’”  Williams, supra, 5 Cal.4th at
355.  LASD inappropriately refused to
disclose any documents for years under the vague and blanket assertion that
some investigation was ongoing.  It was
inappropriate to do so for every responsive record.  LASD did not even provide the names of the
deputies who shot Christopher Mosco until February 8, 2022, more than three
months after Petitioners’ CPRA request. 
Henriks Decl., ¶10, Ex. 7.  Pet.
Op. Br. at 9.
In reply, Petitioners summarize the
timeline of LASD’s responses:
In response to Petitioners’ first
CPRA requests sent by certified mail on October 14, 2021, LASD stated 15 days
later that “[t]he requested records are part of an ongoing and active criminal
investigation and are therefore exempt from disclosure under [citations]…..Aguirre
Decl.,, ¶4,  Ex. B, p. 18; 
On
November 1, 2021, 12 days after receipt of the CPRA request, LASD stated that
it would require a 14-day extension to respond by November 15, 2021. Aguirre
Decl., ¶5, Ex. C, p. 24.  No response was
made on November 15, 2021, or at any point thereafter, regarding the first CPRA
request. Id., ¶5.
In
response to Petitioners’ second CPRA request submitted on December 13, 2021, LASD
stated on December 27, 2021, 12 days after receipt, that it required a 14-day
extension to respond, or by January 10, 2022.  Aguirre Decl., ¶7, Ex. E, p. 37.
On
January 4, 2022, LASD timely responded within the 14-day extension.  However, it stated only that it was “still in
the process of searching for, pulling, collecting, and reviewing potentially
responsive records,” and that “[o]nce our review has been completed, you will
be notified,” without providing an estimated timeframe as to when such
compliance could be expected.  Aguirre
Decl., ¶8, Ex. F, p. 42.
On
February 8, 2022, 35 days after receipt, LASD released only the names of the
two deputies who shot Christopher Marcos, stating, inter alia, that “[t]he
requested records are part of an ongoing and active criminal investigation by
the Los Angeles County District Attorney's Office, and therefore are exempt
from disclosure….The aforementioned reasons for preventing interference with
this active investigation outweigh public interest in disclosure in the
requested records. The Department intends to comply with your requests to the
extent that it possesses records that are not otherwise exempt from
disclosure.…We estimate that we will be able to produce responsive records in
or about 18 months. We will update you as to any changes to our estimated
production date in 180 days.”  Aguirre Decl.,
¶9, Ex. G, pp. 46-47.  
No
response was made by LASD within the 180 days between February 8 and August 7,
2022.  Aguirre Decl., ¶5.
In
response to Petitioners’ June 21, 2022 attempt to informally obtain compliance,
on July 1, 2022, LASD categorically refuted the various inadequacies raised by
Petitioners, referred Petitioners to the conclusory justifications in its
February 8, 2022, response, and reiterated the previously estimated timelines
for production of 18 months and an update in 180 days.  Reply at 1-3.
Petitioners conclude that LASD
unjustifiably withheld documents and information responsive to their CPRA
requests, stringing them along for years and essentially hoping they would go
away without needing to comply.  It is
apparent that if Petitioners did not constantly follow up on their CPRA
requests and file this Petition, LASD would not have produced anything to
Christopher Mosco’s parents.  This tactic
was employed for no other reason than to prevent Petitioners from learning
critical information to bring a lawsuit against County and LASD regarding the
death of their son, which has strict and short filing deadlines.  See, e.g., §911.2.  Pet. Op. Br. at 9.
The short
answer to Petitioners argument is that there is no remedy for a public agency’s
delay in producing records pursuant to a CPRA request other than to file a mandamus/declaratory
relief petition to compel the production. 
As County of Santa Clara stated, section 7923.000 authorizes a mandamus writ
only when “public records are being improperly withheld from a member of the
public”.  The CPRA remedy is available only
where the public entity is allegedly improperly withholding those records.  171 Cal.App.4th at 126.  The CPRA provides no judicial
remedy for any other purpose or entity or a remedy that may be utilized for
any purpose other than to determine whether a particular record or class of
records must be disclosed.”  Id.
at 127 (first emphasis in original).  
Nonetheless, Petitioners’ delay argument is relevant to
whether they triggered production of records and are entitled to attorney fees.  As the County states, Petitioners mostly ignore the grounds for delay laid out in LASD’s
various letters, including Penal Code section 832.7(b)(8). Additionally, Petitioners focus
solely on a purported investigation of the deceased Christopher Mosco and
ignore LASD’s criminal investigation of the deputies’ actions.  Opp. at 8-9.
While SB
1421 and 16
amended Penal Code section 832.7 to make certain categories of peace officer personnel records
available under the CPRA, “section
832.7 reflects continuing concern for certain privacy and safety interests and
competing public interests.”  Ventura County Deputy Sheriffs’ Assn. v. County
of
Ventura, (2021) 61
Cal.App.5th 585, 592-93 (citation omitted).  Section 7923.625[4]
and Penal Code section 832.7(b)(8) authorize delays in disclosure due to pending and
active criminal investigations.  
Pursuant to Penal
Code section 837.7(b)(8), an agency may withhold a record of an incident that
is the subject of an active criminal or administrative investigation for 60
days from the date of misconduct or use of force or until the district attorney
determines whether to file criminal charges, whichever occurs sooner.  The agency shall provide the specific basis
in writing for its determination that a delay in disclosure outweighs the
public interest in disclosure.  Penal
Code §832.7(b)(8)(A)(i).  
Petitioners
incorrectly state that the only criminal investigation concerned Christopher
Mosco’s actions.  There at least was an
ongoing investigation of the deputies involved in the incident.  See Modica Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.  A criminal investigation was performed by LASD’s Homicide
Bureau and the District Attorney’s Office’s JSID.  Modica Decl., ¶¶
2-3.  Under Penal Code
section 832.7(b)(8), disclosure may
be delayed for up to 60 days from the date of the shooting or use of force if
the agency provides the specific basis for the determination that the interest
in delaying disclosure clearly outweighs the public interest in disclosure.  LASD notified Petitioners by letter on October
29, 2021, only 26 days after the date of the shooting, that the
records were
part of an ongoing
and active criminal investigation and that their
release would jeopardize the completion of the investigation as well as the
potential safety of witnesses, which outweighs the public interest in
disclosure.  Aguirre Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. B.  Opp. at 9.
After 60 days from
the misconduct or use of force, the agency may continue to delay disclosure if
it could reasonably be expected to interfere with a criminal enforcement
proceeding against the officer.  The
agency shall, at 180-day intervals, provide in writing the specific basis for
its determination that disclosure could reasonably be expected to interfere
with a criminal enforcement proceeding. 
The writing shall include the estimated date of disclosure.  The information shall be disclosed after the
specific basis for withholding is resolved, when the investigation or
proceeding is no longer active, or no later than 18 months after the incident,
whichever occurs first.  Penal Code
§832.7(b)(8)(A)(ii).  
LASD notified
Petitioners in a February 8, 2022 letter that “[d]isclosure
of the requested records before the District Attorney's investigation
into this incident is complete would substantially interfere with the
investigation and/or criminal enforcement proceeding by threatening the integrity of
the evidence, endangering the safety of victims and witnesses, tainting
witnesses and the jury pool, and precluding a fair trial, if an individual is
charged with a crime.”
Aguirre Decl., ¶9, Ex. G. The letter also disclosed responsive
information that and would not substantially interfere with the active criminal
investigation -- namely, a
copy of the “Incident Summary” and the names of the two deputies involved in
the shooting -- and provided an estimate that the remaining records would be
available in 18 months.  Id.  Opp. at 9-10.
LASD provided
Petitioners another letter on July 1, 2022, noting that the records related to the incident were still part
of an ongoing and active criminal investigation and therefore are being withheld for the reasons stated in the previous
response letter, noting that the estimated disclosure timeline was the same.  Id., ¶11, Ex. I.  Opp. at 10.
The County
also relies on Penal Code section 837.6(b)(6), arguing that, during the period it
withheld the records, the public interest served by not disclosing the
information clearly outweighed the public interest served by disclosure of the
information.  As stated in letters updating
Petitioners, disclosure of the records would have substantially
interfered
with the
investigation and/or criminal enforcement proceeding by threatening the integrity of
the evidence, endangering the safety of victims and witnesses, tainting
witnesses and the jury pool, and precluding a fair trial, if an individual is
charged with a crime.  Opp. at 10-11.
LASD began
disclosing the records once it determined that disclosure would no longer
substantially interfere with the investigation, and redactions were made as
legally required.  Aguirre Decl., ¶¶ 9, 12; Sheldon Decl., ¶¶ 3, 5-8.  Accordingly, LASD complied with the procedural
requirements of Penal Code section 832.7. 
Opp. at 10.
In reply, Petitioners note that LASD was required to provide
a determination regarding disclosure of any records responsive to each of
Petitioners’ requests within ten days of receipt or to specify a time
for later determination of no more than 14 days.  §7922.535(a-b); see also Anderson-Barker
v. Superior Court, (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 528, 538. With one
exception, LASD consistently failed to respond in the time required.  On at least three such occasions, LASD failed
to sufficiently “justify the withholding of any record by demonstrating [its]
exempt[ion] under express provisions of [the CPRA], or that on the facts of the
particular case the public interest served by not disclosing the record clearly
outweighs [those] served by disclosure of the record.”  §§ 7922.000, 7922.540; see also Los
Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors v. Sup. Ct., (2016) 2 Cal.5th 282,
291 (catch-all provision requires agency “‘to demonstrate a clear
overbalance’ in favor of nondisclosure.”). 
Reply at 1.
Sections 7922.000 and 7922.540 require the agency to justify
withholding any record by demonstrating that the record is exempt or that the
facts of the case the public interest served by not disclosing clearly
outweighs the public interest in disclosure. 
But they do not require any specific detail.  It is sufficient to note the existence of an
ongoing criminal investigation and that disclosure of the records would substantially
interfere with
the investigation and/or criminal enforcement proceeding by threatening
the integrity
of the evidence, endangering the safety of victims and witnesses, tainting
witnesses and the jury pool, and precluding a fair trial if an individual is
charged with a crime.  Petitioners cite
no authority to the contrary.
Petitioners also dispute the County’s reliance on Penal Code
section 832.7(b)(8) (and section 79623.625) as a severely oversimplified
mischaracterization.  For both, there
must be an active and ongoing criminal investigation or enforcement
proceeding.  §7923.625(a-b); Penal Code
§832.7(b)(8)(A)(i-iii).  The County has
effectively conceded that (1) it cannot substantiate that any investigation has
remained active and ongoing after LASD’s Homicide Unit provided its findings to
the JSID the day after Petitioners filed this action, and (2) it cannot confirm
that the District Attorney will ever pursue criminal enforcement.  Reply at 3.
Indeed, the County has confirmed that the JSID has “neither
decided to pursue criminal charges against the involved deputies nor has it
issued notifications to the LASD that it will not be filing criminal charges.”  In other words, LASD’s statement on February
8, 2022 that “[t]he requested records are part of an ongoing and active
criminal investigation by the District Attorney's Office”, as well as the
affirmations of the same by LASD’s records custodian, are knowingly false. Aguirre
Decl., ¶9, Ex. G, pp. 46-47.  Accordingly,
the only support that a criminal investigation has remained active and ongoing
since July 13, 2022 are the self-serving statements of Lt. Michael Modica that it
is “[his] understanding that JSID’s evaluation and [unverified] further
investigation is continuing…”  Modica Decl.,
¶3.  Reply at 4.
The County’s delay in production clearly was justified until at least
July 13, 2022.  On that date, the
Homicide Unit’s investigation was forwarded to JSID.  Modica Decl., ¶3.  LASD has never received a non-prosecution
letter from the District Attorney, but it also has no reason to believe that
the investigation is ongoing and active. 
Yet, it was not until early June 2023 that LASD
determined that disclosure of some records related to the incident -- an incident
report, coroner’s report, other related paper records, and some video records
-- would not substantially interfere with the still ongoing investigation into
the deputies.  Aguirre Decl., ¶12.  This was
relayed to Petitioners’ counsel by the County’s counsel during a meet and
confer on
June 2, 2023. 
Sheldon Decl., ¶3. 
The
County’s attorney subsequently estimated that responsive paper
records could
be provided by July 7, 2023 and that responsive audio and video
recordings could potentially be produced by September 15, 2023.  Sheldon
Decl.,, ¶4.  Some records were produced on August 9, 2023 (Sheldon Decl., ¶5, Ex. A)
and others were produced on
September 6, 2023, with a notation that remaining records were being produced on
a rolling basis as they become available (Sheldon Decl.,, ¶6, Ex. B).  More records were produced on October 30 and
November 22, 2023, until the
County deemed production to be complete.  Sheldon Decl., ¶¶ 7-8, Exs. C, D.
Should LASD have concluded that there was no active and ongoing
investigation before June 2023?  Probably.  At least the County has not shown that it could
not have reached this conclusion earlier. 
Nonetheless, the County always intended to disclose the pertinent
records and was simply waiting for the investigation to end.  If the County waited unduly, as indicated ante there is no
remedy for delayed disclosure of public records other than a petition to compel
disclosure.  
 
            2.
The Redactions
            Petitioners
do not claim there are any unproduced records. 
They contend, however, that the produced records have been redacted so
that they are effectively useless, in a way that frustrates the whole purpose
of the CRPA. Particularly, County has refused to (a) give the name of and
information of at least one officer involved in the incident, (b) show the
faces of the officers involved in the incident, and (c) provide unredacted
photos of public areas and information in plain public view, including house and
license plate numbers.  Pet. Op.
Br. at 9-10.
            To justify redacting records under the catch-all exemption, an agency
must show that “the public interest served by not disclosing the record
clearly outweighs the public interest served by disclosure of the record.”  §7922.000. 
The burden is on the
proponent of nondisclosure to demonstrate a clear
overbalance on the side of confidentiality. 
Castañares v. Superior Court of San Diego County, (2023) 316
Cal.Rptr.3d 422, 435.   This is a high
burden as the CPRA embodies a strong policy in favor of disclosure of public
records.  Bernardi v. County of
Monterey, (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1379, 1393.  Pet. Op. Br. at 10.
 
a.
Employee Numbers
            Petitioners’ moving papers do not address the
issue of disclosure of employee numbers. 
The County argues that employee ID numbers are exempt from disclosure
under Penal Code section 832.7(b)(6) and (b)(7), and sections 7927.700
(personnel files), 7927.705 (privilege), 7929.210(a)(vulnerable information
technology), and 7922.000 (catch-all). Opp.
at 11.
            These numbers are distinct from a deputy’s
badge number, and are not displayed on their uniform. Aguirre Decl., ¶13.  The employee numbers give access to certain confidential law
enforcement databases, such as CLETS, which contains confidential criminal
history and driving records.  Id.  The
employee number is also used by LASD employees to access Human Resources
databases containing their confidential personnel records, such as performance
evaluations, medical benefits, and 401(k) plans.  Id.  Opp. at 11.
            Disclosure of the employee numbers would
reveal part of the login information used for these confidential databases, and
increase the potential for an attack on an information technology system of the
County.  Id.  See §7929.210(a) (“Nothing in this division requires
the disclosure of an information security record of a public agency, if, on the
facts of the particular case, disclosure of that record would reveal
vulnerabilities to, or otherwise increase the potential for an attack on, an
information technology system of a public agency”).  Opp. at 11.
            Petitioners reply that
the fact that the disclosure of employee numbers “would reveal part of the
login information used for confidential databases” is insufficient.  Plainly, the slippery slope contemplated is patently
unreasonable for redacting deputies’ employee numbers in light of the
compelling interests in identifying peace officers who abuse their authority in
ways that endanger the public and other officers.  Any
hackers stand less chance of infiltrating these confidential databases with a mere
piece of login information than they do of impersonating someone with only the
last four digits of their social security number.  Reply at 5.
            The mere fact that disclosure of
employee numbers would not provide open access to employee 401(k)’s and other
confidential employee information is small comfort to those employees.  No one wants any portion of their confidential
employee information to be publicly available. 
The public interest served by not disclosing the employee numbers is
the prevention of access to County personnel records and sensitive information
of members of the public.  These
interests clearly outweigh the public interest served by disclosure of the
employee numbers, which does nothing to inform the public about the incident
involving Christopher Mosco.  Petitioners have not even attempted
to articulate a public interest favoring disclosure of employee ID numbers where the deputy has already  been identified.  The County need not provide unredacted employee ID numbers.
 
b. Photos of Deputies
In
weighing private or even public interests in nondisclosure against the
interests in disclosure, courts may consider potential threats that are
reasonably asserted and specifically identifiable.  Connell v.
Superior Court, (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th
601, 612.  However, the court may not
accept mere speculation.  Id.  “A mere assertion of possible endangerment
does not clearly outweigh the public interest in access[ing]” records related
to the conduct of the people’s business.  Id. at 613 (internal quotation
marks omitted) (quoting CBS, Inc. v. Block, (1986) 42
Cal.3d 646, at 652).  The weight of
the public interest in disclosure is “proportionate to the gravity of the
governmental tasks sought to be illuminated and the directness with which the
disclosure will serve to illuminate.”  Id. at 616 (original
emphasis).  Reply at 4-5.
Petitioners argue that LASD has disclosed the full names and badge numbers of most of the officers
involved, which makes them readily identifiable to the public and renders the
redaction of their faces in photos meaningless.  Moreover,
the notion that the disclosure of the officers’ faces somehow makes it likely
that criminals will impersonate them is farfetched.  The County’s interest in keeping the officers’ faces a secret
is a veiled attempt at allowing them to commit misconduct with impunity and
promotes secrecy in government in direct obstruction of the CPRA.  Pet. Op. Br. at 10-11.
The County responds that photos of the deputies’ faces may
be redacted under
Penal Code section 832.7(b)(6) and (b)(7).  If disclosed, the public would be able to use the
photos to aggregate and compile any information available about an officer into
a single publicly accessible database.  Aguirre Decl., ¶14.  This includes
"doxing" -- the intentional publication of a person's private
information online as part of concerted efforts to harass and harm an officer
and their family. Id.  The photos would contribute to websites that offer bounties or financial rewards for the killing of
peace officers.  Id.  The rapid advancement of facial
recognition programs and artificial intelligence technology creates an even
greater risk because the photos could be used to scan databases and pull up deputies’
personal information.  Id.  Thus, there is a significant danger
to their physical safety if the photos of deputies’ faces are released.  Penal Code §832.7(b)(6)(D).  Opp. at 13.
Further, the public interest served
by not disclosing the un-redacted photos clearly outweighs the public interest
served by disclosure of the un-redacted photos. The public interest in
non-disclosure includes: (1) public safety, because accessibility to the photos
would make it substantially easier for criminals to create fake ID cards,
impersonate an officer, and commit crimes; (2) maintaining effectiveness of
plain clothes surveillance, because disclosure of the photos would allow the
public to recognize peace officers while they are conducting surveillance
operations in plain clothes, thwarting and hampering these investigative
techniques; (3) maintaining undercover officer anonymity, because disclosure of
non-undercover officers' names and photos could reveal who is currently working
undercover by comparing that information to the names of officers whose salary
information is publicly available and maintained on the Transparent California
website; (4) future undercover operations' effectiveness, because disclosure of
the photos precludes officers who are currently not working undercover from doing
so in the future because their photos could be stored for future use and
immediate real-time identification, and therefore their identities as officers
would be known to the public; (5) retention and recruitment of officers,
because public exposure of one's image and identity as an officer would
inevitably hamper LASD's efforts to retain sworn personnel and recruit deputy
applicants given the increased safety concern; and (6) multi-agency task
forces' effectiveness, because disclosure of the photos risks compromising
ongoing and future investigative task forces (including state and federal) in
which LASD personnel are embedded.  Opp. at 13-14.
The County’s arguments
are the very speculation of threat that is foreclosed under the CPRA.  Petitioners correctly reply that it is unreasonable
to redact the photos of deputies’ faces where there is no specifically
identifiable threat.  Reply at 5.  Additionally, the prospect that publication of a
person's private information online will be made as part of concerted efforts
to harass and harm him or her and their family is an unfortunate aspect of
public employment.  It is
not a separate basis to prevent publication of photographs of already
identified deputies.  The County must
disclose unredacted photos of the deputies identified to Petitioners.
 
c. Work and Training History of Deputies
The County argues that the work and training history of LASD
deputies may be redacted under Penal Code section 832.7 (b)(6) and
(b)(7).  This information is part of confidential peace officer personnel
records that were not made subject to disclosure by SB 1321 or 16.  Moreover, the public interest served by
maintaining officer privacy related to their work and training history -- such
as maintaining officer morale and recruitment efforts -- clearly outweigh the public
interest served by disclosure of the
information, which does not shed light on the Incident in question.  Opp.
at 14.
Petitioners do not address this issue and the court agrees
with the County.  This information on the
work and training history of identified deputies may remain redacted.
 
d. Neighbors’ Faces, Home Address Numbers, and License
Plate Numbers
Section 7923.625 provides
that, notwithstanding any other provision of the CPRA, a video or audio
recording that relates to a critical incident may be withheld during an active
criminal or administrative investigation if disclosure would substantially
interfere with the investigation, but disclosure of the recording may be
delayed for no longer than 45 days. 
§7923.625(a)(1).  After 45 days,
the agency may continue to delay disclosure for up to one year from the incident
date if it demonstrates that disclosure would substantially interfere with the
investigation.  After one year, the
agency may continue to delay disclosure only if it demonstrates by clear and
convincing evidence that disclosure would interfere with the
investigation.  The agency shall promptly
inform the requester in writing the specific basis for this determination and
provide the estimated date for disclosure. 
The agency shall reassess the withhold and notify the requester every 30
days.  §7923.625(a)(2).
Additionally, if the agency
demonstrates that the public interest in withholding an audio or video clearly
outweighs the public interest in disclosure because it would violate the
reasonable expectation of privacy of a subject depicted in the recording, the
agency shall inform the requester in writing the specific basis therefore and
may redact to obscure the specific portions of the recording that protect that
interest.  §7923.625(b)(1).
Petitioners argue that the
County refused to produce unredacted photos of license
plates, neighbors’ faces, and house numbers unless Petitioners agree to indemnify the County if it is sued for invasion of privacy, which is extremely unreasonable.  Just because someone may file a frivolous lawsuit
against the County does not mean that Petitioners should have to pay for their defense.  There is no expectation of privacy in areas
which are in public view.  See Dillon v. Superior Court, (1972) 7 Cal.3d 305, 311; People v. Claeys, (2002) 97
Cal.App.4th 55, 59.  There also is
no intrusion into a person’s privacy when they are photographed or videotaped
in public view.  See Sanders v.
American Broadcasting Co, Inc., (1999) 20 Cal.4th 907, 914; Aisenson v. American
Broadcasting Co., (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 146, 163.  Pet. Op. Br. at
10-11.
Penal
Code section 832.7(b)(6)(B) and (C) include among the few permissible reasons
for an agency to redact a record or video upon disclosure the preservation of “the
anonymity of whistleblowers, complainants, victims, and witnesses,” and protection
of “confidential medical, financial, or other information of which
disclosure is specifically prohibited by federal law or would cause an
unwarranted invasion of personal privacy that clearly outweighs the strong
public interest in records about possible misconduct and use of force by peace
officers and custodial officers.” A reasonable expectation of privacy is
founded on “broadly based and widely accepted community norms.”  The expectation must be reasonable in light of
any “competing social interests involved.”  Sheehan v. San Francisco 49ers, Ltd.,
(2009) 45 Cal.4th 992, 1000. To establish a reasonable expectation of privacy,
one must conduct himself or herself in a manner that is consistent with the
claimed expectation of privacy.  Id. The presence or absence of
opportunities for a person’s consent to alleged infringement on privacy rights
affects the reasonableness of their expectation of privacy. TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Sup.Ct. (Zieminski), (2002) 96 CA4th
443, 449; see also Hill
v. National Collegiate Athletic Ass'n, (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 37.  Reply at 5-6.
Petitioners argue that none of the potential
witnesses whose license plates, curbs, and/or faces were captured in any of the
footage released by LASD had a reasonable expectation of privacy or
confidentiality in these subjects insomuch as they freely exposed them to
public view in the public domain and made no obvious attempts to prevent their
foreseeable appearance in body camera footage by deputies.  Moreover, much of the released footage is from
street-facing private security cameras in the neighborhood and reflects
community expectations that one’s face, car, or curb might be captured on their
neighbors’ “Ring” doorbell camera.  Finally,
the countervailing interests of the public in identifying potential witnesses
to a police killing are unmatched.  Reply
at 6.
The issue is statutory protection, not constitutional
privacy.  Penal Code section
832.7(b)(6)(A) states: “An agency shall redact a record disclosed pursuant to
this section…[t]o remove personal data or information, such as a home address, telephone
number….” Neighbors’ home address numbers and license plate numbers may be
redacted under
Penal Code section 832.7(b)(6).  These neighbors may
not have an expectation of privacy in their home address and telephone number
displayed on a Ring camera, but Penal Code section 832.7(b)(6)(A) expressly
authorizes the redaction of this information.
The same is true for photos of the faces of neighbors and
third parties.  Penal Code section
832.7(b)(7) states that “Notwithstanding paragraph (6), an agency may redact a
record disclosed pursuant to this section, including personal identifying
information, where, on the facts of a particular case, the public interest
served by not disclosing the information clearly outweighs the public interest
served by the disclosure of the information.” 
The protection of third parties’ confidentiality outweighs the public
interest served by disclosure of such information.  The neighbors’ home addresses and related
information fall under this category.  There
is nothing to be gained by publicly disclosing photos of third parties not
involved in the incident.  Petitioners’
argument that there is a public interest in disclosure of potential witnesses
to the shooting is relatively weak where there is no reason to believe that any
depicted person witnessed the incident.  This information may remain redacted.
 
e. Records for the Undercover LASD Officer
Petitioners note that peace
officer records generally can only be redacted to remove personal data or information,
such as a home address, telephone number, or identities of family members,
other than the names and work-related information of peace officers and
custodial officers, to preserve the anonymity of complainants and witnesses, to
protect confidential medical, financial, or other information in which
disclosure would cause an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, and “[w]here there is a specific, articulable, and
particularized reason to believe that disclosure of the record would pose a significant
danger to the physical safety of the peace officer, custodial officer, or
another person.  Penal Code §832.7 (b)(6)(A)-(D).   Pet.
Op. Br. at 11.
The County refuses
to release any information about one deputy who was involved in the incident
because his safety is allegedly at risk. 
These safety concerns involve the fact that he is an undercover officer,
and that there is a suspect whose brother he arrested ten years ago who is
trying to find and kill him.  The fact
that this deputy is an undercover officer should not give him or her a blank
pass to commit misconduct for which he cannot be held accountable, especially
if that misconduct involves the unlawful use of deadly force.  If he has a history of misconduct, then he
should not be an undercover officer or an officer at all.  The public has a strong and compelling public
interest in uncovering any misconduct of this deputy particularly because this
incident involves the potentially unlawful use of force that resulted in
Christopher Mosco’s death.  Moreover,
exposing the deputy’s name and/or badge number would not compromise his safety
because presumably none of the suspects in the cases on which he is undercover
would ever know to look for his real name. 
Pet. Op. Br. at 11-12.
The County
responds that Petitioners do not discuss the details in the
County’s custodian of records declaration provided to them on January 9, 2024.  Sheldon Decl., ¶11, Ex. F.  As stated in the declaration, the officer at issue will be
testifying in federal court as the investigating officer against certain arrested crime
family members
who face almost 200 years in federal prison and have extensive ties in
County to retaliate against and/or prevent the officer from testifying at
trial.  Opp. at 12.
This alone
provides no basis to conclude that the officer’s identity should be
redacted.  The County does not explain
when the officer will be testifying in the federal case, but it is clear that
he will do so because he is the investigating officer.  At some point then, his identity will be
known to the defendants.  Moreover, there
has been no specific threat to the officer, and it is speculation to suggest that
he would be at risk if his identity is revealed as an officer involved in the
incident concerning Christopher Mosco.
The County
also presents evidence that, about ten years ago, LASD's Major
Crimes Bureau investigated and concluded that a suspect was searching for the same LASD peace
officer's house in order to kill him, and followed LASD employees who physically resembled
the LASD peace officer home from the LASD station. The suspect was ultimately
arrested as a felon
in possession of a firearm at a shooting range where the suspect wrote the LASD
officer's name and imagined likeness on targets and shot them. The suspect was
recently released from federal prison and could continue his vendetta against
the LASD officer.  Sheldon Decl., ¶8, Ex. F.  Opp. at 12.
These are specific and particularized facts of a threat.  While the passage of ten years mitigates the
threat, the court will not conclude it does not remain real.  Based on safety concerns for the peace
officer, and because Petitioners do not show that the officer had any specific
involvement in the Christopher Mosco incident, the public interest served by
not disclosing the information clearly outweighs the public interest served by
disclosure of information about him or her.  Penal Code §832.7(b)(7). 
Any redacted identifying information for the undercover officer may
remain redacted.
 
3. Attorney Fees
A petitioner who prevails in a CPRA case is entitled to
court costs and attorney fees. 
§7923.115(a).  Fees and costs are
mandatory if the plaintiff prevails. Filarsky
v. Superior Court, (2002) 28 Cal.4th 419, 427.  A plaintiff prevails in litigation under the
CPRA if the litigation motivated the defendant to release the requested
documents.  Motorola Commun. & Electronics v. Dep’t of General Servs.,
(“Motorola”) (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1340, 1344.  This is true if the action compelled the
defendant to produce even one document. Although CPRA does not define “prevailing
party”, the courts have construed this term to have a meaning similar to a
“successful party” under CCP section 1021.5.  See Belth v. Garamendi, (1991)
232 Cal.App.3d 896, 901-02 (if plaintiff's lawsuit induced defendant's response,
was material factor, or contributed in a significant way to the result achieved,
then plaintiff has shown the necessary causal connection).
Petitioners contend that their Petition resulted in LASD releasing
previously withheld documents.  The
timing of disclosure alone may be sufficient to determine whether the plaintiff
is a “prevailing party” (Motorola, supra, 55 Cal.App.4th at 1340),
and the timing is clear: the County did not release any records until
after Petitioners filed the Petition.  In
addition, LASD’s purported justification of an ongoing criminal investigation for
its repeated refusals to produce records was meritless. The only investigation the
County may have done was whether Christopher Mosco had assaulted a police
officer, a moot point because they could not charge him with a crime after
killing him.  Since the County was not
investigating any crime that could be charged, it had no legitimate
justification for withholding the records for two years after Petitioner’s
initial request.  Pet. Op. Br. at 13.
The court
disagrees.  The evidence shows that the
County intended to produce all responsive records when the delay provisions for
an ongoing and active criminal investigation no longer were applicable.  While Petitioners dispute the period in which
delay was reasonable, they do not show that their Petition triggered the
County’s disclosure.  Since
the County was justified in temporarily
withholding and then redacting the released records, Petitioners’
claim for attorney fees on this ground fails. 
However, Petitioners
have caused disclosure of unredacted photos of the LASD officers involved in
the incident.  They are entitled to apportioned
fees for this disclosure.  
 
F. Conclusion
The Petition is
granted in limited part.  The County is
ordered to disclose photos of the officers involved in the incident within 30
days.  Petitioners may make a fee motion apportioned
for this disclosure.  The parties are
ordered to meet and confer to try and reach an agreement on the apportioned
fees.


