 Case Number:  24STLC03359    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  26 Movsisian
v. Escrow Time, Inc., et al
DEMURRER
(CCP §
430.10, et seq.)
  
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendant Escrow Time,
Inc.’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED. DEFENDANT IS TO FILE AND SERVE
ITS ANSWER TO THE COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
On May 6, 2024, Plaintiff Msrop E. Movsisian (“Plaintiff”),
in propria persona, filed the Complaint in this action against Defendant Escrow
Time, Inc. (“Defendant”). On September 12, 2024, Defendant filed the instant
Demurrer to the Complaint. Plaintiff filed an opposition on October 14,
2024. 
 
 
 
Discussion
 
Allegations in the
Complaint
 
On March 8, 2022, escrow
was opened between Plaintiff and a buyer, Elen Ghazaryan, through Defendant.
(Compl., ¶6.) The escrow agreement stated Plaintiff would not be responsible
for “the sufficiency or correctness as to form, manner of execution or validity
of any documents deposited in this escrow.” (Id. at ¶6 and Exh. A.)
Plaintiff provided Defendant’s Escrow Officer Iris Martinez (“Martinez”) with a
dismissal from Los Angeles Superior Court case James Rex Fenley vs.
Msrop E. Movsisian (“Prior Action”), which was dismissed on November
6, 2015. (Id. at ¶6.)
 
Escrow closed on November
8, 2023, during which time Plaintiff was told all of the paperwork was “good to
go” by Martinez. (Ibid.). On November 9, 2023, Plaintiff realized that
$15,450.00 had been disbursed by Defendant to Los Angeles Housing Department
despite providing Defendant the dismissal paper from the Prior Action. (Id. at
¶7.). Plaintiff then contacted Iris Martinez to inform her he had given her a
dismissal paper, which she denied ever receiving. (Id. at ¶8.) Martinez
then called Plaintiff back to inform him she found the dismissal paper but had
already sent the check. (Ibid.) Martinez told Plaintiff to go to L.A
Housing Authority on 7th street in Los Angeles but when Plaintiff went there he
discovered the building had been closed for two years. (Ibid.) When
Plaintiff informed Martinez the building was no longer in operation, she hung
up the phone. (Ibid.) Martinez then called Plaintiff back and said she
would see what she could do about the situation but never called Plaintiff
back. (Ibid.) In January 2024, Plaintiff called and asked to speak with
the manager and was told they were out sick. (Ibid.) Plaintiff called
again to speak with the manager several times but was told they were not
available. (Ibid.)
 
Demurrer to the Complaint
 
The Complaint alleges
causes of action for (1) Professional Negligence; and (2) Breach of
Contract. The Demurrer is accompanied by a meet and confer declaration as
required by Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41. (Demurrer, Benson
Decl., ¶¶2-3.) Defendant demurs on the grounds that the Complaint fails to
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10,
subd. (e).)
 
The demurrer is rife with statements of fact that are
outside the four corners of the Complaint or of which Defendant has not
requested the Court take judicial notice. (Demurrer, p. 4, § I.) It is black
letter law that the Court’s consideration of these facts on demurrer is
improper. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.30; Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The demurrer also
fails to set forth the necessary elements to state a cause of action for either
professional malpractice or breach of contract. Defendant only broadly mentions
that “[a]n escrow holder’s fiduciary duty is generally limited to the faithful
performance of the instructions given by the Principals to the Escrow.”
(Citing Summit Financial Holdings, Ltd. v. Continental Lawyers Title
Co. (2002) 27 Cal.4th 705, 711,713.) The demurrer provides no analysis
of the allegations in the Complaint with respect to this duty and instead
improperly relies on the extrinsic facts.
 
Therefore, Defendant’s demurrer does not show that the
Complaint fails to state a cause of action for either professional negligence
or breach of contract.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Escrow Time,
Inc.’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED. DEFENDANT IS TO FILE AND SERVE
ITS ANSWER TO THE COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
Court clerk to give notice.