  Case Number:  24STCV15495    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  76             Plaintiff
alleges that he was forced to wear an ankle monitor as a condition of
Plaintiff’s parole pursuant to Megan’s Law.
Defendant
California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation demurs to the
Complaint.
TENTATIVE RULING           
            Defendant did not submit a meet and confer declaration.
Although the meet and confer requirement does not apply in “[a]n action in
which a party not represented by counsel is incarcerated in a local, state, or
federal correctional institution,” (Civ. Proc. Code, § 430.41(d)(1)), there is
no indication that Plaintiff in pro per is currently incarcerated.
            As such, the hearing on the demurrer is CONTINUED to
December 6, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. Defendant is to attempt to meet and confer with
Plaintiff and submit a meet and confer declaration by November 22, 2024.
ANALYSIS
Demurrer
Request
For Judicial Notice
            Defendant requests that the Court
take judicial notice of the following:
1. Exhibit A: Signed declaration from California Department of Records
General Services custodian of documents stating that, after searching the
records, they were unable to locate any claims that have been filed with, or
presented to, the Government Claims Program that match under the name “Joseph
K. Cofey” filed between January 1, 2022 and the present.
 
The request is DENIED. This is
evidence extrinsic to the Complaint which is not subject to judicial notice
pursuant to Evid. Code, § 452.
Meet
and Confer
            Defendant
did not submit a meet and confer declaration. Although the meet and confer
requirement does not apply in “[a]n action in which a party not represented by
counsel is incarcerated in a local, state, or federal correctional institution,”
(Civ. Proc. Code, § 430.41(d)(1)), there is no indication that Plaintiff in pro
per is currently incarcerated.
            As
such, the hearing on the demurrer is CONTINUED to December 6, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
Defendant is to attempt to meet and confer with Plaintiff and submit a meet and
confer declaration by November 22, 2024.