  Case Number:  23STCV15790    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



SANDRA
  GREENE 
                           
         vs.
 
FARMERS
  INSURANCE EXCHANGE, et al. 
 


 Case No.: 
  23STCV15790  
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  November 26, 2024



            
Plaintiff’s
motion for stay is GRANTED.
 
            On
7/6/2023, Plaintiff Sandra Greene (Plaintiff) filed suit against Farmers
Insurance Exchange (Defendant or Farmers), alleging: (1) breach of implied
obligation of good faith and fair dealing; and (2) breach of contract. 
 
            On
9/30/2024, Plaintiff moved to stay the entire action pending appeal.
 
            The
motion is unopposed. 
 
Discussion 
 
Plaintiff
seeks a stay of the entire action pending appeal of the Court’s 9/19/2024
ruling granting Defendant’s motion for summary judgment. 
 
Except as
provided in Sections 917.1 to 917.9, inclusive, the perfecting of an appeal
stays proceedings in the trial court upon the judgment or order appealed from
or upon the matters embraced therein or affected thereby, including enforcement
of the judgment or order, but the trial court may proceed upon any other matter
embraced in the action and not affected by the judgment or order.” (CCP § 916,
subd. (a).)
 
CCP 923
states: “[t]he provisions of this chapter shall not limit the power of a
reviewing court or of a judge thereof to stay proceedings during the pendency
of an appeal or to issue a writ of supersedeas or to suspend or modify an
injunction during the pendency of an appeal or to make any order appropriate to
preserve the status quo, the effectiveness of the judgment subsequently to be
entered, or otherwise in aid of its jurisdiction.”
 
Here, the
appeal relates to Defendant’s disposing of the entire action by way of summary
judgment. Accordingly, the Court agrees that any action taken in this case
would affect the appellee’s court jurisdiction over the matter. The Court takes
Defendant’s non-opposition to be a concession to the motion on the merits. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to stay is granted. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  November   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 