 Case Number:  23STCV24638    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Motion for
Leave to Amend Answer to Verified Complaint for Partition by Sale of Real
Property
 
Moving Party: Defendant
Hilda Mendoza 
Resp. Party:    None 
 
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
The Motion for Leave to Amend Answer is GRANTED. 
 
        Defendant
shall file her proposed First Amended Answer within 10 days of the issuance of
this Order. 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On October
10, 2023, Plaintiff Abraham Carmona filed his Verified Complaint for Partition
by Sale of Real Property. 
 
On November
29, 2023, Defendant Hilda L. Mendoza filed her Judicial Council Form PLD-C-010,
Answer—Contract. 
 
On April 9,
2024, Defendant filed her Motion for Leave to Amend Answer to Verified
Complaint for Partition by Sale of Real Property (“Motion for Leave to Amend
Answer”). Defendant concurrently filed her Proposed Order. 
 
No opposition
or other response has been filed to the Motion for Leave to Amend Answer. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Legal Standard
 
“The court may, in furtherance of justice, and
on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or
proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting a
mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).)
 
        “Any judge, at any time before or
after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms
as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial
conference order.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 576.)
 
“A motion to amend a pleading before trial
must: (1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which
must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or
amendments; (2) State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to
be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted
allegations are located; and (3) State what allegations are proposed to be
added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line
number, the additional allegations are located.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1324(a).)
 
“A separate declaration must accompany the
motion and must specify: (1) The effect of the amendment; (2) Why the amendment
is necessary and proper; (3) When the facts giving rise to the amended
allegations were discovered; and (4) The reason why the request for amendment
was not made earlier.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)
 
“This discretion should be exercised liberally
in favor of amendments, for judicial policy favors resolution of all disputed
matters in the same lawsuit.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Super. Ct. (1989)
213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) 
 
Leave to amend is thus liberally granted,
provided there is no statute of limitations concern. (Kolani v. Gluska (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 402, 411.) The Court
may deny the plaintiff’s leave to amend if there is prejudice to the opposing
party, such as delay in trial, loss of critical evidence, or added costs of
preparation. (Ibid.)
 
II.      
Discussion
 
Defendant moves for leave to amend her Answer. 
 
The Motion for Leave to Amend Answer is unopposed. 
 
Defendant has
complied with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324. (See Motion for Leave to
Amend Answer, Decl. Mendoza and Exh. 1.)
 
It does not
appear that allowing Defendant to amend her Answer poses any significant risk
of prejudice to Plaintiff. 
 
III.     Conclusion
 
The Motion for Leave to Amend Answer is GRANTED. 
 
        Defendant
shall file her proposed First Amended Answer within 10 days of the issuance of
this Order.
 