 Case Number:  22STCV26625    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  ISAAC COTA, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  CALIFORNIA HIGHWAY PATROL, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 22STCV26625  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEFENDANT’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  December 6, 2023  I. Background On August 17, 2022, Plaintiff Isaac Cota, a minor, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem Christopher Cota (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant California Highway Patrol (“CHP”) and Sergeant Lee for damages arising from a motor vehicle v. bicycle incident. On February 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed an amendment to complaint naming Christopher Lang as Doe 1. On November 8, 2022, CHP filed its Answer to Plaintiff’s complaint. On October 17, 2023, CHP filed the instant motion seeking leave to file a permissive cross-complaint against Plaintiff for negligent entrustment, negligent supervision, negligence per se, negligence, equitable indemnity, contribution, apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief.  Any opposition was due on or before November 21, 2023. The motion is unopposed.    II. Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint  A cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the initial complaint or cross-complaint against the cross-complainant must be filed before or at the same time as the answer to the initial complaint or cross-complaint, which answer must be filed within 30 days of service of the complaint or cross-complaint.  (CCP §§ 412.20(a)(3), 428.50(a), 432.10.)  Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a trial date.  (CCP §428.50(b).)   If a party fails to file a cross-complaint within the time limits described above, he or she must obtain permission from the court to file the cross-complaint.  (CCP §§ 426.50, 428.50(c).)  Leave to file a mandatory cross-complaint must be granted absent bad faith. (Silver Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.)  Leave to file a permissive cross-complaint need only be granted in the interest of justice. (CCP §428.50(c).) Where the proposed cross-complaint arises out of the same transaction as plaintiff’s claim, the court must grant leave to file the cross-complaint so long as defendant is acting in good faith. (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) Here, CHP argues that the incident on June 27, 2021 involved the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department requesting assistance from CHP East Los Angeles for an unpermitted cruising event on Whittier Blvd. that included hundreds of vehicles, pedestrians, and bicyclists which caused major disruptions to traffic flow and blocked access to local business. CHP avers the lead CHP patrol vehicle was turning left when Plaintiff, on a bicycle, turned in front of the CHP patrol vehicle and contact was made between the bicycle and patrol vehicle. Plaintiff did not request any medical attention and rode away. CHP requests leave for to cross-complaint against Plaintiff for not wearing a helmet and for the bicycle not being equipped with reflective lights or reflectors.  The Trial date is currently set for February 14, 2024. CHP had video of the incident showing Plaintiff riding with other minors without a helmet and other circumstances of the incident, yet waited over a year after filing its Answer to assert a cross-complaint against Plaintiff for information it had since the onset of this lawsuit. CHP’s counsel avers it was “[d]ue to oversight” that “prior defense counsel did not recognize the grounds for a cross-complaint against plaintiff and his parents.” (Sullinger Decl. ¶11.) Nonetheless, despite CHP’s counsel’s oversight or inadvertence, Plaintiff did not oppose the motion and there is otherwise no demonstration of bad faith for the proposed cross-complaint arising from the same transaction as Plaintiff’s claim. The late filing of the motion to file a compulsory cross-complaint absent some evidence of bad faith is insufficient evidence to support denial of the motion. (Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal. App. 3d 94, 101.)  The motion for leave to file a cross-complaint is therefore GRANTED. CHP is ordered to file its proposed cross-complaint within ten (10) days of the date of this Order.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 5th day of December 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   