 Case Number:  23STCV11209    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  YEYMI ALEJANDRA PEREZ RAMIREZ, ET AL., Plaintiff(s),  vs.  1037 NORTH SYCAMORE (LOS ANGELES) OWNER, L.P., ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 23STCV11209  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  December 6, 2023  I. Background Plaintiffs Yeymi Alejandra Perez Ramirez, Gloria Leslie Reyes, and Saul Andres Reyes, by and through his guardian ad litem, Bertha Ramirez, (“Plaintiffs”), individually and as successors in interest to Lucas Obdulio Perez Vicente (“Decedent”), filed this action against Defendants 1037 North Sycamore (Los Angeles) Owner, L.P., CIM Group, L.P. and CIM Holdings, LLC (“Defendants”) for wrongful death arising from work Decedent performed on Defendants’ property, in which unsecured lumber beams fell on Decedent. The complaint brings causes of action for wrongful death (negligence and premises liability) and a survival action.   Defendants now demur to the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), arguing the Plaintiffs are barred from pursuing their claims based upon the Exclusive Remedy Provisions of the Workers’ Compensation Act under Cal. Labor Code §3600, subdivision (a), and that the FAC omits all previous references of Decedent working at the direction of Defendants. Plaintiff opposes the motion, and Defendants filed a reply.  II.  Procedural Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading demurred to for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.  (CCP § 430.41(a).)   The court finds Defendants fulfilled this requirement prior to filing the demurrer.  (Hamby Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.)  III.  Judicial Notice Defendants request the Court take judicial notice of Plaintiff’s Complaint. The request is granted.   IV. Demurrer A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings.  It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or cross-complaint).  (CCP §§ 422.10, 589; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of the ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true.  (Donabedian, 116 Cal.App.4th at 994.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian, supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at 994.)  No other extrinsic evidence can be considered.  (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862 [disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287] [error to consider contents of release not part of court record].) A demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete or discloses some defense that would bar recovery.  (Guardian North Bay, Inc. v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-72.)  The “face of the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are incorporated by reference into the complaint; or in a superseded complaint in the same action.  (Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”]). A demurrer can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action.  (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97,119; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)  A.  Workers’ Compensation Act  “ ‘The elements of a negligence cause of action are the existence of a legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in injury.  [Citation.] The elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.’ [Citation.]”  (McIntyre v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)  As in any negligence action, whether a duty was owed under the facts is a question of law for the court.  (Castaneda v. Olsher (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1205, 1213.)    The WCA provides the exclusive remedy for an injury sustained by an employee in the course and scope of employment. (Lab. Code, §§ 3600, subd. (a), 3602, subd. (a); Charles J. Vacanti, M.D., Inc. v. State Comp. Ins. Fund (2001) 24 Cal.4th 800, 813, 102 Cal.Rptr.2d 562, 14 P.3d 234 (Vacanti).) The workers’ compensation exclusivity rule is based on the “presumed ‘compensation bargain’ ” in which, in exchange for limitations on the amount of liability, the employer assumes liability regardless of fault for injury arising out of and in the course of employment. (Shoemaker v. Myers (1990) 52 Cal.3d 1, 16, 276 Cal.Rptr. 303, 801 P.2d 1054.) The compensation bargain encompasses both psychological and physical injury arising out of and in the course of the employment. (Lab. Code, §§ 3600, subd. (a), 3208.3.)  (Shirvanyan v. Los Angeles Community College Dist. (2020) 59 Cal.App.5th 82, 105.)   Consequently, an injured worker's remedies against his employer or a co-employee are (absent narrow exceptions) solely under the workers' compensation law—i.e., there is no “common law” action against the employer or a co-employee because, as a general rule, workers' comp is the exclusive remedy for injury or death of an employee occurring in the course and scope of employment.  (Lab. Code §§ 3600, 3601; see generally, Jones v. Kaiser Industries Corp. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 552, 556.)   Subject to exceptions, workers’ compensation is the¿only¿remedy¿available to injured employees¿and their dependents¿against the employer or against any fellow employee responsible for injuries “arising out of and in the course of employment.” (Lab. Code §§ 3600-3602, 5300; see¿Shoemaker v. Myers¿(1990) 52 Cal.3d 1, 18.)  There are some situations in which the injured employee may maintain a civil action against his or her employer.  These include statutory exceptions such as: 1) physical assault by the employer; 2) aggravation of injury by the employer’s fraudulent concealment; 3) products liability cases, 4) power press guards; and 5) the employer is uninsured.  (See Lab. Code §§ 3602, 3706, 4553.)  This exclusivity rule extends to co-employees, unless the co-employee proximately causes another employee's injury or death by a “willful and unprovoked physical act of aggression” or by intoxication.  (Lab. Code, § 3601(a); see Torres v. Parkhouse Tire Service, Inc. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 995, 1002.)     Defendants argue the FAC is almost the same as the original complaint, except for the specific omission of any words stating Decedent was working at the time of the incident, and that the FAC is a sham pleading. A court has authority to strike sham pleadings.  (Ricard v. Grobstein, Goldman, Stevenson, Siegel LeVine & Mangel (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 157, 162.)  “Under the sham pleading doctrine, plaintiffs are precluded from amending complaints to omit harmful allegations, without explanation, from previous complaints to avoid attacks raised in demurrers or motions for summary judgment.”  (Deveny v. Entropin, Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 408, 425.)  However, “[t]he sham pleading doctrine is not intended to prevent honest complainants from correcting erroneous allegations … or to prevent correction of ambiguous facts.... Instead, it is intended to enable courts to prevent an abuse of process.”  (Id. at 426 (internal citations and quotations omitted).)  Further, the sham pleading doctrine is not intended to prevent correction of bona fide mistaken allegations or to prevent correction of ambiguities.  (Larson v. UHS of Rancho Springs, Inc. (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 336, 344.)  The doctrine only applies where prior allegations of fact are “destructive” of any of the causes of action alleged in the subsequently filed pleading.  (Karp v. Dunn (1964) 229 Cal.App.2d 186, 190.)  The sham pleading doctrine “is an exception to the general rule of pleading that prior complaints are superseded by subsequent ones. Only where an extreme situation is presented should the exception be applied.”  (Id. at 191.) The critical element to the applicability of the workers compensation exclusivity doctrine is whether Decedent was injured within the course and scope of his employment with Defendants for Workers’ Compensation purposes.   Here, the original complaint alleged in pertinent part:  10. Plaintiffs are informed and believe that on or about July 13, 2021, Plaintiffs’ decedent, Lucas Obdulio Perez Vicente was employed by an unknown company within the State of California. In that capacity, decedent, Lucas Obdulio Perez Vicente, was lawfully working on the Subject Property at the construction site in Los Angeles, California. … 13. Plaintiffs are informed and believe that on July 13, 2021, Lucas Obdulio Perez Vicente, decedent, was directed by Defendants to perform work at the Subject Property consisting of construction activities. […] … 24. […] Defendant owners, OWNER, GROUP, and HOLDINGS, and each of them, directed decedent Lucas Obdulio Perez Vicente to perform work at the Subject Property… (Compl. ¶¶ 10, 13, 24.)  Defendants argue the FAC now has removed all references to Decedent “working” on the construction site, and there are no longer any allegations as to why Decedent was on the subject property and Defendants’ role in directing Decedent’s work. The FAC now alleges:   10. Plaintiffs are informed and believe that on or about July 13, 2021, Plaintiffs’ decedent, Lucas Obdulio Perez Vicente was employed by an unknown company within the State of California. On or about July 13, 2023, decedent, Lucas Obdulio Perez Vicente, was lawfully on the Subject Property at the construction site in Los Angeles, California.  …  13. Plaintiffs are informed and believe that on July 13, 2021, Lucas Obdulio Perez Vicente, decedent, was lawfully at the Subject Property. Defendants had not advised and/or warned decedent Lucas Obdulio Perez Vicente of the dangers, known or which should have been known, to Defendants at the Subject Property. As a direct and proximate result of Defendants’ actions, while decedent Lucas Obdulio Perez Vicente was at the Subject Property, unsecured 2” x 4” lumber beams fell from an overhead location on Lucas Obdulio Perez Vicente causing severe injuries that resulted in his death.  …  24. Plaintiffs are informed and believe that on July 13, 2021, at Defendants’ direction, instruction, supervision and/or control of Defendants and their employees created, controlled, operated, maintained and allowed a dangerous condition… which was known or which should have been known to Defendants and each of them, to be dangerous and unsafe for all persons at the Subject Property, including, decedent Lucas Obdulio Perez Vicente, and without providing safety precautions or warnings, instruction and training… (FAC ¶¶ 10, 13, 24.)  In opposition, Plaintiffs contend the identity of Decedent’s employer has not been established, and that the merits of Decedent’s employment should be addressed on summary judgment. Plaintiffs argue CIM Holdings, LLC rejected Plaintiffs’ workers compensation claim for reasons including “a question as to whether Lucas Vicente would qualify as a statutory employee for workers’ compensation benefits.” More particularly, as provided in Plaintiffs’ Exhibit 3, the denial of workers’ compensation benefit to CIM Holdings, LLC provided:  “After careful consideration of all available information, we are denying liability for your claim of injury. Workers’ compensation benefits are being denied because you have not filed workers’ compensation claim that Lucas Vicente’s passing was due to work related injuries. We are also denying the claim because you have failed to cooperate with our investigation. Lastly, there is a question whether Lucas Vicente would qualify as a statutory employee for workers’ compensation benefits. If you comply with our investigation, we will reconsider our position.” (Opp. Exh. 3.) Plaintiffs acknowledge that Decedent was working at a construction site with a number of contractors and subcontractors at the time of the incident, but argue the Workers Compensation Act cannot bar Plaintiffs’ action because the employee-employer relationship has not been established. Plaintiffs also argue that there is no proof that Defendants maintained workers compensation insurance. In the event the demurrer is sustained, Plaintiffs request leave to amend.  In reply, Defendants aver Plaintiffs have not explained the deliberate removal of the allegations that Decedent was working on the subject property, and that extrinsic evidence outside the four corners of the pleadings should not be considered. Defendants provide they do not deny Decedent was an employee, but the FAC does not include any allegations that Defendants denied Decedent was an employee. Cal. Lab. Code § 3357 provides, “Any person rendering service for another, other than as an independent contractor, or unless expressly excluded herein, is presumed to be an employee.” At the time the Court sustained Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s complaint, the Court reasoned that the allegations contained in the original complaint were sufficient to indicate that Decedent was presumed to be an employee. However, leave to amend was provided for Plaintiffs to correct ambiguous facts, such as whether he was an independent contractor, or to plead any statutory exceptions for Plaintiffs to be able to maintain the action despite the workers’ compensation exclusive remedy rule. However, Plaintiffs’ only change to the operative complaint was to omit all references of Decedent working on the subject site and being directed by Defendants to perform construction work.  This is a material change that would be “destructive” of Plaintiffs’ causes of action alleged in the subsequently filed pleading. Here, although Defendants argue extrinsic evidence should not be considered, Defendants themselves also make use of extrinsic evidence in support of their motion. Nonetheless, workers’ compensation is the only remedy available to injured employees and their dependents against the employer if the injuries arose out of and in the course and scope of the injured worker’s employment. As provided by Plaintiffs, there does appear to be an issue of whether Decedent’s passing was due to work and whether Decedent qualified as a statutory employee, which would take this outside of the exclusivity rule for pleading purposes only. Further, Plaintiff’s opposition alleging Defendants did not maintain workers compensation insurance would also be a statutory exception to the exclusivity rule. However, none of these allegations were pled in the FAC. Although Plaintiffs’ FAC constitutes a sham pleading by omitting material allegations in terms of Decedent working on a construction site at the direction of Defendants, there is also a possibility for an amendment to change the legal effect of the pleading. Therefore, Defendants’ demurrer to the FAC is sustained with leave to amend.   Plaintiffs are granted twenty (20) days leave to amend.¿   Defendants are ordered to give notice.   PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 5th day of December 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court     