 Case Number:  21STCV34580    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  NAPOLEON PEREZ RAMIREZ, ET AL. Plaintiff(s),  vs.  CHRISTINA LEWIS, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV34580  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO DEEM REQUEST FOR ADMISSIONS ADMITTED  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  December 6, 2023  I.  Motion to Deem RFAs Admitted Defendant/Cross-Complainant Hollywood Honeywagon Production Vehicles (“Hollywood Honeywagon”) propounded request for admissions, set one, on Cross-Defendant Moises Vidaurri, erroneously sued as Moises Jauregui, (“Moises”) on August 15, 2023 via U.S. Mail. Moises’ responses were due on or before September 20, 2023.  To date, Moises has not served responses. Hollywood Honeywagon therefore seeks deeming the RFAs admitted and imposing sanctions. The instant motion was served on Plaintiff in pro per. The motion is unopposed.  Where there has been no timely response to a request for admission under CCP § 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.  (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)  The party who failed to respond waives any objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party relief from the waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently served a substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to respond was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.  (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)  The court “shall” grant a motion to deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”  (Code of Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)  Defense counsel avers that a true and correct copy of Hollywood Honeywagon’s RFAs, set one, is attached as Exhibit A. (Lewis Decl. ¶2; Exh. A.) However, Exhibit A is a demand for production of documents, set one, not the purported request for admissions. Hollywood Honeywagon has not provided any evidence that Moises was properly served with its RFAs, set one. Therefore, because of the lack of evidence showing Moises was properly served with discovery and failed to respond, Hollywood Honeywagon’s motion is DENIED without prejudice.  II.  Sanctions Sanctions are mandatory against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response, unless a court makes certain findings.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290(c), 2031.300(c).)¿ Because the motion is denied, so too is the request for sanctions.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 5th day of December 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   