 On February 19, 2014, the Court entered judgment in favor of Plaintiff Pacific L 39 LLC and against Defendants Nejat Kohan and Hormoz Ramy in the amount of $4,981,792.79.  Subsequently, Plaintiff assigned the judgment to WVJP 2017-2, LP (“WVJP”). On February 23, 2021, the Court ruled that third-party Sid Kohan “has no right to enforce the Deeds of Trust [(“DOT”)] and so [Nejat] Kohan cannot use Sid as a shield against reassignment” with respect to rental income.  On July 23, 2021, the Court entered a charging order against Kohan’s interest in Palm Plaza Family LP.  That order states, “the transferable interest in the Palm Plaza Family LP (hereinafter ‘Partnership’) of the Judgment Debtor is charged with payment of the judgment entered against Judgment Debtor in the within action on, February 19, 2014 in the original amount of $4,981,792.79 (the ‘Judgment’), plus interest and post-judgment costs as allowed by law. Further, said Partnership is to pay any and all partnership profits or distributions otherwise payable to Judgment Debtor, which are either past due, currently due, or due in the future, directly to the judgment creditor's attorney of record, Hemar, Rousso & Heald, LLP.”On September 29, 2021, WVJP obtained an order from the Riverside Superior Court to sell Nejat’s condo.  That order relied on this Court’s finding that Sid’s DOTs were void.  In April 2022, the condo was sold.In February 2022, Sid sued Nejat for legal malpractice, contending Nejat failed to inform him that their confession of judgment would result in Sid losing his security interests.On April 18, 2023, the Court granted a motion by WVJP to foreclose against Kohan’s interest in Palm Plaza Family LP and entered an order accordingly.Non-party Sid Kohan now seeks leave to file a complaint in intervention.  Sid contends that the Court’s February 23, 2021, ruling that Sid forfeited his DOTs was invalid because Sid was an indispensable party.  Code Civ. Proc. § 387 provides for instances in which intervention is mandatory and discretionary.  Intervention is mandatory where “[a] provision of law confers an unconditional right to intervene [or] [t]he person seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the disposition of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability to protect that interest, unless that person’s interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing parties.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 387(d)(1).)  Discretionary intervention is allowable when “the nonparty has a direct and immediate interest in the litigation; . . . [t]he intervention will not enlarge the issues in the case; and [t]he reasons for intervention outweigh any opposition by the existing parties.”  (Truck Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 342, 346.)“Timeliness is determined by the totality of the circumstances facing would-be intervenors, with a focus on three primary factors: (1) the stage of the proceeding at which an applicant seeks to intervene; (2) the prejudice to other parties; and (3) the reason for the delay.  [ ]  [D]elay in itself does not make a request for intervention untimely.”  (Crestwood Behavioral Health, Inc. v. Lacy (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 560, 574 (internal quotation marks omitted).)Sid’s request is not timely because the primary order he complains of was entered over three years ago, Nejat’s condo was sold over two years ago, and the Court already entered an order foreclosing against Nejat’s distributions, such that there are no other pending matters.  That is, allowing Sid to intervene would mean Sid could undo three years of litigation, despite not providing any valid reason why he could not intervene at an earlier time.  Actually, filings on the docket show that Nejat indicated he was representing Sid in this matter several times.  (See Opposition at p. 2.)  The Court further notes that Sid already apparently obtained a settlement from Nejat for committing malpractice with respect to the DOTs.  Sid claims his Motion is timely because it was filed only three months after a Riverside Superior Court judge ruled against him in his suit to enforce the same DOTs this Court found unenforceable.  Sid, however, overlooks that it was his choice to litigate in the Riverside Superior Court, rather than filing an application in this Court.  Nothing precluded him from seeking intervention years ago.  Because Sid’s request is not timely, the Motion is denied.  WVJP to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.