  Case Number:  21STCP00625    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 
 
 



 KENNETH WENGROD, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 MICHAEL WEISS, et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCP00625




Hearing Date:


December 6, 2023




Hearing
  Time:    2:00 p.m. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
  RE:
 
DEFENDANTS’
  DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S SECOND AMENDED VERIFIED DERIVATIVE COMPLAINT; 
 
DEFENDANTS’
  MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFF’S SECOND AMENDED VERIFIED DERIVATIVE
  COMPLAINT
 
 



 
Background 
On February 25, 2021, Plaintiff Kenneth Wengrod, Trustee of
The Manhattan Trust, derivatively on behalf of Lily Bleu, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed
this action against Defendants Michael Weiss and Barbara Clark
Cambilargiu, and “Nominal Defendant” Lily Bleu, Inc. (“Lily Bleu”). 
On March 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed an Amended Verified Derivative
Complaint (the “FAC”), alleging causes of action for (1) breach of fiduciary
duty, (2) corporate waste, (3) unjust enrichment, (4) fraud (concealment), (5)
fraud (misrepresentation), and (6) negligent misrepresentation. 
On July 12, 2023, the Court issued a minute order providing, inter
alia, that “[t]he Demurrer by Jenna Cambilargiu is SUSTAINED with leave to
amend as to the third cause of action for unjust enrichment. At the hearing,
the parties dismissed the five pending additional demurrers and agreed that
after further meeting and conferring Plaintiff will file and serve and amended
complaint on or before July 31, 2023. The Defendants may file and serve a joint
demurrer to the second amended complaint, if appropriate, or answer the second
amended complaint. The pending hearings on the five additional demurrers are
now off calendar.” 
On July 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended
Verified Derivative Complaint (the “SAC”) against Defendants Michael
Weiss, Barbara Clark Cambilargiu (“Barbara Cambilargiu”), Miriam Weiss,
Carl Cambilargiu, Jessica Weiss Sonnabend (“Jessica Weiss”), Jenna Cambilargiu,
and Good Day Gardena Properties, LLC (“Good Day Gardena Properties”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) and Nominal Defendant Lily Bleu. The SAC asserts causes of action
for (1) breach of fiduciary duty, (2) corporate waste, (3) unjust enrichment,
(4) fraud (concealment), (5) fraud (misrepresentation), and (6) negligent
misrepresentation.
Defendants now demur to the SAC. Defendants also move to strike
portions of the SAC. Plaintiff opposes both. 
Demurrer 
A.    Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To
survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a
cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar
v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713.) 
A
pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f)¿.) A demurrer
for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders
the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition
Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135,
139, fn. 2¿.) However, “¿[a] demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.¿” (¿Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616¿.)¿¿   
B.    
Allegations of the SAC
In the SAC, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that Michael
Weiss and Barbara Cambilargiu (jointly, the “Defendant Directors”) are
each a director of Lily Bleu. (SAC, ¶ 3.) Miriam Weiss and Carl Cambilargiu
are the Defendant Directors’ spouses. (Ibid.)
Jessica Weiss and Jenna Cambilargiu are the Defendant Directors’ daughters. (Ibid.) 
Lily Bleu is a corporation engaged in the clothing business. (SAC, ¶
2.) Plaintiff was and is the owner of 5% of the shares of Lily Bleu’s
common stock at the time of the transaction(s) complained of in the SAC. (SAC,
¶ 4.) 
Plaintiff alleges that the Defendant Directors failed to
disclose to Lily Bleu and its shareholders that they paid themselves salaries,
bonuses, other payments, and reimbursement of personal expenses exceeding the
reasonable value of their services to Lily Bleu. (SAC, ¶ 9.) The 
Defendant
Directors also caused Lily Bleu pay Jenna Cambilargiu wages that were not
earned, gifts, and reimbursement of personal expenses that were unrelated to
any employment activities for Lily Bleu. (SAC, ¶ 9.) In addition, the Defendant
Directors caused Lily Bleu to pay Jessica Weiss wages that were not earned,
medical and dental benefits that were not earned and/or not wages, and
reimbursement of personal expenses that were unrelated to any employment
activities for Lily Bleu. (SAC, ¶ 9.) The Defendant Directors also caused Lily
Bleu to pay personal expenses of the Defendant Directors’ spouses. (SAC, ¶
9.)  
            Plaintiff further alleges that the
Defendant Directors failed to disclose to Lily Bleu and its shareholders that
they paid themselves travel, entertainment, and other expense reimbursements
which are unreasonable and/or are personal expenses, and bear no relationship
to the value of these reimbursements to Lily Bleu. (SAC, ¶ 11.) The Defendant
Directors also failed to disclose to Lily Bleu and its shareholders that they
paid personal travel, personal entertainment, and other personal expenses of
their daughters and spouses that are unrelated to any employment activities for
Lily Bleu. (SAC, ¶ 11.) 
            In addition, Plaintiff alleges that
the Defendant Directors failed to disclose to Lily Bleu and its shareholders
that they arranged to contribute for the benefit of themselves deferred
compensation and/or profit sharing benefits which are unreasonable in relation
to the compensation reasonably owing to the Defendant Directors for their
services to Lily Bleu, to the detriment of Lily Bleu. (SAC, ¶ 12.) The Defendant
Directors also failed to disclose and paid unearned deferred compensation
and/or profit sharing benefits to Jessica Weiss. (SAC, ¶ 12.)  
            Plaintiff further alleges that the
Defendant Directors have engaged in accounting practices designed to conceal Lily
Bleu’s profits, and that the Defendant Directors are taking undue risk. (SAC,
¶¶ 13, 14.) The Defendant Directors have used Lily Bleu’s assets to pay their
personal legal expenses without obtaining Lily Bleu’s permission and/or in
violation of law. (SAC, ¶ 15.) 
            In addition, Plaintiff alleges that
on or about July 2, 2008, the Defendant Directors formed Good Day Gardena Properties,
“to which it appears they diverted [Lily Bleu] funds, which were then used to purchase
a new 8,736 square foot light industrial building at 1406 West 178th Street,
Gardena, CA 90248 (the ‘Facility’).” (SAC, ¶ 21.) The Defendant Directors
caused Lily Bleu to move its offices and production facilities to the Facility;
and then had Lily Bleu enter into a lease with Good Day Gardena Properties and
fixed the payments to Good Day Gardena Properties without consulting Plaintiff.
(SAC, ¶¶ 22, 23.)
Plaintiff alleges that Lily Bleu has made rental payments to Good Day
Gardena Properties, and paid the property taxes, insurance, other expenses of
maintaining the Facility, and also paid Good Day Gardena Properties’ outside
accounting fees and bookkeeping fees. (SAC, ¶ 25.) Plaintiff alleges that such
payments increase the expense burden on Lily Bleu in excess of the reasonable
rental value of the Facility, to the detriment of Lily Bleu and the sole
benefit of the Defendant Directors. (SAC, ¶ 25.) 
C.    
Third Cause of Action for Unjust
Enrichment 
Defendants
assert that the third cause of action for unjust enrichment fails to state a
cause of action as to all Defendants.   
In
support of the third cause of action for unjust enrichment, Plaintiff alleges
that “Defendants derived compensation, benefits, fees,
reimbursements, payment of personal expenses, rent, and other benefits from [Lily
Bleu] and were otherwise unjustly enriched during the time in which the
wrongful practices alleged herein occurred, to [Lily Bleu’s] detriment.
Defendants also wrongfully converted funds belonging to [Lily Bleu].” (SAC, ¶
42.) 
 Defendants assert that unjust
enrichment is not a valid cause of action under California law. They cite to McBride v.
Boughton (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th 379, 387, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[u]njust enrichment is not a cause of
action, however, or even a remedy, but rather a general principle, underlying
various legal doctrines and remedies…It is synonymous with restitution.” (Internal
quotations omitted.) In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that unjust
enrichment is a recognized as a cause of action. Plaintiff cites to Professional
Tax Appeal v. Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc. (2018) 29 Cal.App.5th 230, 238, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[g]enerally, one who is unjustly enriched at
the expense of another is required to make restitution. The elements of a cause
of action for unjust enrichment are simply stated as receipt of a benefit and
unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of another.” (Internal quotations and citations omitted.) Plaintiff
also cites to Lectrodryer v.
Seoulbank (2000)
77 Cal.App.4th 723, 726, where the
Court of Appeal found that “[e]vidence also supported the conclusion that
Lectrodryer satisfied the elements for a claim of unjust enrichment:
receipt of a benefit and unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of
another.” 
            Next, Defendants
assert that even if there is a cause of action for “unjust enrichment”,
the demurrer should still be sustained because Lily Bleu has other adequate
remedies at law. Defendants cite to Collins v. eMachines, Inc. (2011)
202 Cal.App.4th 249, 260, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[b]ecause
we have found that plaintiffs’ remedies at law are adequate (counts alleged
under the CLRA, the UCL, and common law fraud), a claim for restitution,
alleging that eMachines has
been unjustly enriched by its fraud, is unnecessary. This conclusion follows
from the general principle of equity that equitable relief (such as
restitution) will not be given when the plaintiff’s remedies at law are
adequate.” Defendants assert that “[i]n his opposition to prior
demurrers, Plaintiff did not dispute that Lily Bleu could obtain full redress
for any damages under the causes of action plead against the Director
Defendants, including breach of fiduciary duty and waste.” (Demurrer at p. 4:4-6.)

            In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts
that “given that the third cause of action for unjust enrichment is the only
cause of action asserted against newly-added Defendants; namely, Miriam, Carl,
Jessica, Jenna and Good Day, this argument carries no weight against any of the
five (5) of them.” (Opp’n at p. 6:1-3.) Plaintiff’s first, second, fourth, and
fifth causes of action are alleged only against the Defendant Directors. In the
reply, Defendants assert that “[t]he number of causes of action asserted are
irrelevant to a determination of whether the equitable remedy of ‘unjust
enrichment’ applies.” (Reply at p. 4:4-5.) But Defendants do not appear to
address Plaintiff’s point that the only cause of action alleged against the
non-Defendant Directors is the third cause of action for unjust enrichment.   
            Plaintiff also asserts that “it
is premature at this point for a determination to be made that there is an
adequate remedy at law.” (Opp’n at p. 6:8-9.) Plaintiff cites to Ramona Manor Convalescent Hosp. v. Care
Enterprises (1986) 177
Cal.App.3d 1120, 1138, where the Court of Appeal noted that “Care attacks the unjust enrichment recovery on several
bases: that in awarding damages on both the business torts and the unjust
enrichment theory the jury failed to follow an express instruction of the
court; that this is not a proper case for recovery on the theory of unjust
enrichment; that the amount awarded Care on the unjust enrichment theory is not
supported by substantial evidence and that the matter of unjust enrichment,
being equitable in nature, should not have been submitted to the jury. We have
concluded that two of Care’s contentions are meritorious and dispositive of the
validity of the unjust enrichment recovery. It will therefore be unnecessary
for us to resolve Care’s other contentions on this point…Care is correct the
jury failed to obey an express instruction of the trial court not to make
awards both under the tort theories and the unjust enrichment theory.” The
Court also “concluded that Care is correct that the circumstances of this case
were not appropriate for any recovery under the theory of unjust
enrichment,” and found that “an action for unjust enrichment is inappropriate
in the circumstances of the case at bench because Ramona can obtain full
redress for its loss of profits under its action for [intentional interference with
contractual relations].” (Id. at pp.
1139-1140.) In the reply, Defendants do not appear
to dispute Plaintiff’s assertion that it is premature at this point to
find that there is otherwise an adequate remedy at law.
            Defendants
also assert in the demurrer that the third cause of action is time-barred as to
Carl Cambilargiu, Miriam Weiss, Jenna Cambilargiu, and Jessica Weiss. 
            Defendants
cite to Code of Civil Procedure section 474, which
provides that “[w]hen the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a
defendant, he must state that fact in the complaint, or the affidavit if the
action is commenced by affidavit, and such defendant may be designated in any
pleading or proceeding by any name, and when his true name is discovered, the
pleading or proceeding must be amended accordingly…” The Court notes that
“Section 474 allows a plaintiff who is ignorant of a defendant’s identity to commence
suit—before the statute of limitations runs—by using a fictitious name for that
defendant and then amending her complaint when the defendant’s true name is
discovered. If the statute’s requirements are satisfied, the amendment relates
back and the substituted defendant is considered to have been a party from the
action’s start.” (Hahn v. New York Air Brake LLC
(2022) 77 Cal. App. 5th 895, 897–98 [internal citations omitted].) 
            Defendants assert that Plaintiff’s
original Complaint “did not include an allegation that Plaintiff ‘was
ignorant of defendant’s true names or had yet to ascertain the true names of
defendants’” such that “the statute of limitations was not tolled upon filing
of the [original Complaint] as to any fictitious/Doe defendants.” (Demurrer at
p. 4:20-22.) Defendants assert that “[s]ince the [original Complaint] lacked
the statutorily required Doe allegations, the statute of limitations did not
toll when the [original Complaint] was filed; it continued to run until Plaintiff
filed his [FAC] on March 1, 2023 naming Carl Cambilargiu, Miriam Weiss, Jenna
Cambilargiu and Jessica Weiss Sonnabend and serving them with Summons and
Complaint.” (Demurrer at p. 4:26-5:2.) This does not appear to be disputed by
Plaintiff.  
            Defendants
argue that Plaintiff attempts to circumvent the expiration of the statute of
limitations by adding allegations that certain conduct “has also been ongoing since
the filing of the Complaint herein.” (See, e.g., SAC, ¶¶ 9-15.)
Defendants argue that “Plaintiff’s [original Complaint] did not allege that the
claims were ongoing; thus, Plaintiff’s claims accrued, at the very latest, upon
the filing of the [original Complaint] on February 25, 2021. The [original
Complaint] lacked statutorily required Doe language and Plaintiff failed to
serve Carl Cambilargiu, Miriam Weiss, Jenna Cambilargiu and Jessica Weiss
Sonnabend with summons and complaint until the [TAC] was filed on March 1,
2023, which was over two years after the [original Complaint] was filed.”
(Demurrer at p. 5:9-13, emphasis omitted.) Defendants assert that the statute
of limitations set forth in Code of Civil Procedure
section 339(1) applies to the third cause
of action. This provision provides, inter alia, “[w]ithin two years: 1. An action upon a contract, obligation or
liability not founded upon an instrument of writing…” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 339(1).)
            In
the opposition, Plaintiff does not appear to dispute that the two-year statute
of limitations set forth in Code of Civil Procedure
section 339(1) is applicable to the third cause of action. Rather, Plaintiff
asserts that the third cause of action is not time-barred as to Carl
Cambilargiu, Miriam Weiss, Jenna Cambilargiu and Jessica Weiss because “[t]he period
of applicable unjust enrichment has not been limited to a period of time that
preceded the filing of the original Complaint on February 25, 2021. The wrong
is ongoing, and there is no specific period of time that the wrongdoing relates
to.” (Opp’n at p.
6:24-26.) 
            In
the demurrer, Defendants assert that “Plaintiff can not revive expired claims
by inserting new, contradictory allegation in his [FAC/SAC] that the ‘conduct
has been ongoing since the filing of the Complaint.’” (Demurrer at p. 5:13-15.)

            In
the reply, Defendants
cite to Zakk v. Diesel (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th
431, 447, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[u]nder the
sham pleading doctrine, [i]f a party files an amended complaint and attempts to
avoid the defects of the original complaint by either omitting facts which made
the previous complaint defective or by adding facts inconsistent with those of
previous pleadings, the court may take judicial notice of prior pleadings and
may disregard any inconsistent allegations. Where no explanation for an
inconsistency is offered, the trial court is entitled to conclude that the
pleading party’s cause of action is a sham and sustain a demurrer without leave
to amend.” (Internal quotations and citation omitted.) 
            In the
opposition, Plaintiff asserts that “there is nothing
contradictory, in a material sense, between the Complaint, the FAC and the SAC.
There is more detail in the FAC and in particular, in the SAC, as three causes
of action were added pursuant to the FAC. Moreover, the FAC added the newly added
defendants (Carl, Miriam, Jessica, Jenna and Good Day) as defendants for the
third cause of action for unjust enrichment.” (Opp’n at p. 8:23-26.) Indeed, Defendants
do not appear to demonstrate how Plaintiffs’ allegation that he “is informed
and believes that this conduct has also been ongoing since the filing of the
Complaint herein” is contradictory to any allegation of the original Complaint.
Defendants do not appear to point to any inconsistent facts in the original
Complaint.
            Defendants
also assert that the third cause of action is time-barred as to Good Day
Gardena Properties. Defendants assert that “Plaintiff knew the true name
of Good Day Gardena beginning in 2008 (or at least 2017, which was four years
from the filing of the [original Complaint]); however, Plaintiff did not name
Good Day Gardena as a party until the Doe amendment was filed in 2022.”
(Demurrer at p. 6:15-18.)[1]
Defendants cite to paragraph 18 of the original Complaint, which alleges, inter
alia, that “on or about July 2, 2008, Defendant Directors formed a new
California limited liability company named Good Day Gardena Properties, LLC…”
(Compl., ¶ 18.) 
            Defendants
assert that “[t]here is a two-year limitations period covering implied in law
obligations, quasi-contractual actions, and tort actions that do not fall
within the scope of other statutes of limitations.” (Demurrer at p. 6:22-25.)
Defendants appear to cite Code of Civil Procedure
section 339(1), which, as set forth above, provides
that “[w]ithin two years: 1. An action upon a contract, obligation or liability not founded
upon an instrument of writing…” (Code Civ. Proc., §
339(1).)  
            In
the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that the third cause of action is not
time-barred as to Good Day Gardena Properties. Plaintiff asserts
that the unjust enrichment realized by Good Day Gardena Properties has also been
allegedly ongoing since the filing of the Complaint. Plaintiff points to
paragraph 30 of the SAC, which alleges that “Plaintiff is informed and believes
that amounts paid by [Lily Bleu] to rent and maintain the Facility exceed the
rental value of the Facility, to the ultimate benefit of Defendant Directors,
and to the detriment of [Lily Bleu]. Plaintiff is informed and believes that
this conduct has also been ongoing since the filing of the Complaint herein.”
(SAC, ¶ 30.) 
            Defendants
assert in the demurrer that “[t]o circumvent the expiration of his claim,
Plaintiff inserted new language to the [FAC] and then eliminated
self-destructive allegations in the [SAC].” (Demurrer at p. 7:11-12.)
Defendants note that paragraph 30 of the FAC
alleges that “Plaintiff is informed and believes that amounts paid by [Lily
Bleu] over the last four years to rent and maintain the Facility exceed
the rental value of the Facility, to the ultimate benefit of Defendant
Directors, and to the detriment of [Lily Bleu]. Plaintiff is informed and
believes that this conduct has also been ongoing since the filing of the
Complaint herein.” (FAC, ¶ 30, emphasis added.) Defendants assert that “[t]o
circumvent the statute, Plaintiff’s [SAC] eliminates the allegation plead in
the [original Complaint] and [FAC] that the events occurred ‘over the last four
years’” (Demurrer at p. 7:15-17, emphasis omitted.) 
            Plaintiff
counters that “[i]t is maintained that the changes between the FAC and the SAC,
as described by…Defendants on page 7, lines 10-23 of their Demurrer, do not
alter the points raised directly above…namely that there is certainly some
period during which excessive rent may have been paid that would not be barred
by the statute of limitations.” (Demurrer at p. 9:21-24.) Indeed, even
considering the allegation in the FAC that “amounts paid by the Company over
the last four years to rent and maintain the Facility exceed the rental value
of the Facility,” (FAC, ¶ 30), it is unclear how this demonstrates that the
third cause of action of the SAC is time-barred as to Good Day Gardena
Properties under Code of Civil Procedure section 339(1). The FAC was
filed on March 1, 2023, and refers to amounts paid “over the last four years”
(FAC, ¶ 30) which could presumably refer to amounts paid in 2023 and/or 2022.
The operative SAC was filed on July 31, 2023. 
            Defendants
also assert that “[a] necessary element for a valid cause of action is that
there be some damages attributable against the named defendant. The [SAC] sets
forth no prayer for relief as to Good Day Gardena.” (Demurrer at p. 7:25-26.) Plaintiff
counters that “damages are set forth concerning Good Day…it received diverted
funds from Lily Bleu that were used to purchase a new 8,736 square foot light
industrial building at 1406 3 West 178th Street, Gardena, CA 90248 (Paragraph
21 of the SAC).” (Opp’n at p. 9:26-10:3.) Paragraph 21 of the SAC alleges, inter
alia, that “on or about July 2, 2008, Defendant Directors formed a new
California limited liability company named Good Day Gardena Properties, LLC…to
which it appears they diverted Company funds…” (SAC, ¶ 21.) Defendants do not
appear to dispute this point in the reply. 
            Defendants also assert that the SAC changes material
allegations against Jenna Cambilargiu and Jessica Weiss. Defendants note that
the FAC alleges that “Defendant Directors have failed to disclose to Plaintiff
and have paid themselves and the Daughters salaries, bonuses, other payments,
and reimbursement of personal expenses exceeding the reasonable value of their
services to [Lily Bleu].” (FAC, ¶ 9.) The FAC also alleges that “Defendant
Directors have failed to disclose to Plaintiff and have paid themselves and the
Spouses and Daughters travel, entertainment, and other expense reimbursements
in excess of $95,000 annually which are unreasonable and bear no relationship
to the value of these reimbursements to [Lily Bleu].” (FAC, ¶ 11.) In addition,
the FAC alleges that “Defendant Directors have failed to disclose to Plaintiff
and have arranged to contribute for the benefit of themselves and the Daughters
deferred compensation and/or profit sharing benefits which are unreasonable in
relation to the compensation reasonably owing to the Defendant Directors and
the Daughters for their services to [Lily Bleu], to the detriment of [Lily
Bleu].” (FAC, ¶ 12.)  
            Defendants assert that “[s]ince Plaintiff was attempting
to disgorge legitimate income earned and voluntarily paid by Lily Bleu in the
course of Daughters’ employment, Daughters demurred to the [FAC], in part,
based on Labor C. §221.” (Demurrer at p. 8:11-13.) Labor Code section 221 provides that “[i]t shall be unlawful for any employer to collect or
receive from an employee any part of wages theretofore paid by said employer to
said employee.” Defendants also assert that “[t]he reimbursements Lily
Bleu paid to Daughters are additionally protected from disgorgement under Cal.
Labor C. § 2802…” (Demurrer at p. 8:13-14.) Labor Code section 2802 provides that “[a]n employer shall indemnify his or her employee for all
necessary expenditures or losses incurred by the employee in direct consequence
of the discharge of his or her duties, or of his or her obedience to the
directions of the employer, even though unlawful, unless the employee, at the
time of obeying the directions, believed them to be unlawful.” (Lab.
Code, § 2802.)
            Defendants
argues that “[t]o circumvent the…effect of his own previously
verified allegations, and without explanation, Plaintiff materially changed
these allegations in the [SAC]. The same salaries, benefits, expenses,
reimbursements, travel, and other benefits which Plaintiff alleged in his [FAC]
were ‘unreasonable in relation to the compensation’ of Daughters are now
alleged to be ‘unrelated to any employment activities’ at Lily Blue and were
‘unearned and/or not wages.’” (Demurrer at p. 8:19-23.) Defendants point to
paragraph 11 of the SAC, which alleges that “Defendant Directors also failed to
disclose to [Lily Bleu] and its shareholders that they paid personal travel,
personal entertainment, and other personal expenses of the Daughters and
Spouses that are unrelated to any employment activities for [Lily Bleu].” (SAC,
¶ 11.) Plaintiff further points to paragraph 17 of the SAC which references an
alleged “payment to Jessica Weiss Sonnabend of wages that were not earned,
medical and dental benefits that were not earned and/or not wages.” (SAC, ¶
17.)  
            Defendants cite to Sanai v. Saltz (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 746,
768-769, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[w]here a
verified complaint contains allegations destructive of a cause of action, the
defect cannot be cured in subsequently filed pleadings by simply omitting such allegations
without explanation…In such a
case the original defect infects the subsequent pleading so as to render it
vulnerable to a demurrer…However, we have also made it clear that a party
should be allowed to correct a pleading by omitting an allegation which, it
appears, was made as the result of mistake or inadvertence.” (Internal
quotations omitted.) Defendants also cite to Shoemaker v.
Myers (1990) 52 Cal.3d 1, 12, where the California Supreme Court noted that “material
factual allegations in a verified pleading that are omitted in a subsequent
amended pleading without adequate explanation will be considered by the court
in ruling on a demurrer to the later pleading.” 
            In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts
that “[t]here are no meaningfully contradictory statements made in the
FAC and SAC concerning either Jenna or Jessica that should somehow lead to the
conclusion that the Demurrer of either of them should be sustained.” (Demurrer at p. 10:19-21.) But Plaintiff does not
address Defendants’ point above that certain allegations in the FAC concerning Jenna
Cambilargiu and Jessica Weiss were omitted in the
SAC. 
            Plaintiff also asserts that “Labor Code Section 221 is not relevant as Plaintiff is
not seeking to recapture any wages legitimately paid to Jessica or Jenna.
Indeed, there is no support that any or all amounts received by either was
treated as wages.” (Opp’n at p. 10:13-15.) But as set
forth above, the FAC alleges that “Defendant Directors have failed to
disclose to Plaintiff and have paid themselves and the Daughters salaries,
bonuses, other payments, and reimbursement of personal expenses exceeding the
reasonable value of their services to the Company.” (FAC, ¶ 9.) Such allegation
does not appear to be included in the SAC as to Jenna Cambilargiu or Jessica
Weiss. Rather, Plaintiff alleges that “[t]he Defendant Directors also caused
[Lily Bleu] to pay Jenna Cambilargiu wages that were not earned, gifts, and
reimbursement of personal expenses that were unrelated to any employment
activities for the Company…The Defendant Directors also caused the Company to
pay Jessica Weiss Sonnabend wages that were not earned, medical and dental
benefits that were not earned and/or not wages, and reimbursement of personal
expenses that were unrelated to any employment activities for the Company.”
(SAC, ¶ 9.) 
As discussed, “material factual allegations in a verified pleading that
are omitted in a subsequent amended pleading without adequate explanation will
be considered by the court in ruling on a demurrer to the later pleading.” (Shoemaker v. Myers, supra, 52
Cal.3d at p. 12.) 
            In addition, Plaintiff asserts that “[l]ikewise, Labor Code Section 2802 is equally inapplicable as no
claim is made to deprive either Jenna or Jessica or [sic] any entitlement to
reimbursement for expenses legitimately incurred during the course of work
performed on behalf of Lily Bleu.” (Opp’n at p. 10:16-18.) But as discussed,
Plaintiff alleges in the FAC that “Defendant Directors have failed to disclose
to Plaintiff and have paid themselves and the Spouses and Daughters travel,
entertainment, and other expense reimbursements in excess of $95,000 annually
which are unreasonable and bear no relationship to the value of these
reimbursements to the Company.” (FAC, ¶ 11.) 
            Plaintiff does not point to any allegations in the SAC setting
forth an explanation for Plaintiff omitting the above-referenced allegations
from the FAC.
            Lastly, Defendants assert that the third cause of action
for unjust enrichment is uncertain as to Carl Cambilargiu and Miriam Weiss. Defendants
note that the SAC defines Miriam Weiss and Carl Cambilargiu jointly as the
“Spouses.” (SAC, ¶ 3.) Defendants assert that “Carl Cambilargiu and Miriam
Weiss are unable to ascertain what specific acts, omissions, or damages are
being attributable specifically to them. This renders the [SAC] uncertain,
ambiguous and unintelligible…” (Demurrer at p. 9:26-28.) The
Court agrees that this renders the SAC ambiguous. Defendants note, for example, that the SAC alleges
that “Defendant Directors have failed to disclose to [Lily Bleu] and its
shareholders that they have paid themselves and the Spouses automobile
expense reimbursements in excess of $85,000 annually which are unreasonable and
bear no relationship to the value of these reimbursements to [Lily Bleu].” (SAC, ¶ 10, emphasis added.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains the demurrer to the third
cause of action for unjust enrichment as to Carl Cambilargiu, Miriam Weiss, Jessica
Weiss, and Jenna Cambilargiu with leave to amend. The Court overrules the
demurrer to the third cause of action for unjust enrichment as to Michael
Weiss, Barbara Cambilargiu, and Good Day Gardena Properties. 
D.   
Fourth Cause of Action for Fraud
(Concealment)
Defendants assert that the fourth cause of action for fraud
(concealment) fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
against the Defendant Directors. 
Defendants note that the fourth cause of action of the FAC for
fraud (concealment) alleges that “Defendant Directors intended to
deceive shareholders by concealing the facts,” and that “Defendant Directors
prevented shareholders from discovering the concealed payments and [Lily Bleu]/shareholders
did not know of the concealed facts.” (FAC, ¶¶ 48-49.) Defendants assert that “[n]ow,
to circumvent prior pleading defects, but without providing any explanation for
the material change, Plaintiff has amended his allegations to assert that
Director Defendants intended to deceive shareholders and Lily Bleu, that
Director Defendants have acted to prevent shareholders and Lily Bleu from
discovering concealed facts of which shareholders and Lily Bleu did not know
and which, had shareholders and Lily Bleu known they would have behaved
differently.” (Demurrer at p. 10:23-28.) 
The SAC now alleges that “the Defendant Directors intended to deceive [Lily
Bleu] and its shareholders by intentionally mischaracterizing/disguising
the nature of the payments to themselves, the Spouses and Daughters, so as to
conceal said payments.” (SAC, ¶ 49, emphasis added.) The SAC also alleges that
“Defendant Directors prevented [Lily Bleu] and its shareholders from
discovering the concealed payments and [Lily Bleu] and its shareholders
did not know of the concealed facts.” (SAC, ¶ 48, emphasis added.) But as set
forth above, Defendants
cite to Zakk v. Diesel, supra, 33 Cal.App.5th at
page 447, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[u]nder the
sham pleading doctrine, [i]f a party files an amended complaint and attempts to
avoid the defects of the original complaint by either omitting facts which made
the previous complaint defective or by adding facts inconsistent with those of
previous pleadings, the court may take judicial notice of prior pleadings and
may disregard any inconsistent allegations. Where no explanation for an
inconsistency is offered, the trial court is entitled to conclude that the
pleading party’s cause of action is a sham and sustain a demurrer without leave
to amend.” (Internal quotations and citation omitted.) 
Defendants assert that “[t]he cited changes are merely for
clarification purposes and do not underscore any material inconsistencies that
give any credence to Defendants’ position in support of their Demurrer.” (Opp’n
at p. 12:4-6.) Indeed, the Court does not find that Defendants have pointed to
any inconsistent allegations in the fourth cause of action of the SAC. Thus,
the Court overrules the demurrer to the fourth cause of action. 
E.    
Fifth Cause of Action for Fraud
(Misrepresentation) 
Defendants
also assert that the fifth cause of action for fraud (misrepresentation) fails
to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
Defendants
note that the FAC alleges that “Defendant Directors made
representations to [Lily Bleu]/shareholders in the Annual Financial Statements,
Income Tax Returns, K-1s, and Resolutions of the Board of Directors regarding
the amount of their compensation and the amount of business expenses [Lily
Bleu] incurred. Plaintiff is informed and believes that this conduct has also
been ongoing since the filing of the Complaint herein.” (FAC, ¶ 53.)  Defendants assert that the SAC pleads facts
which contradict Plaintiff’s prior allegations. Specifically, Defendants point
to the paragraph 53 of the SAC, which alleges that “Defendant Directors made
representations to [Lily Bleu] and its shareholders in the Annual Financial
Statements, Income Tax Returns, K-1s, and Resolutions of the Board of Directors
regarding the amount of their compensation and the amount of purported business
expenses [Lily Bleu] incurred at their direction. The representations were
false, among other reasons, because they did not include and/or describe the
sums the Directors paid themselves for their personal expenses, the personal
expenses paid to/for their Spouses and Daughters, or reveal that they paid
unearned wages to the Daughters and unearned benefits to the Jessica Weiss
Sonnabend. Plaintiff is informed and believes that this conduct has also
been ongoing since the filing of the Complaint herein.” (SAC, ¶ 53, emphasis
added.) 
Defendants argue that Plaintiff alleges that “the same salaries,
benefits, expenses, reimbursements, travel, and all other benefits, which were
initially alleged in the [FAC] to be ‘unreasonable in relation to the
compensation’ of Daughters are now, for purposes of the [SAC], ‘unrelated to
any employment activities’ at Lily Blue and were ‘unearned and/or not   wages’…These unexplained, contradictory
material facts can not be used to support this cause of action…” (Demurrer at
p. 12:3-9.) But Plaintiff also alleges in the fifth cause of action that
“Defendant Directors made representations to [Lily Bleu] and its shareholders
in the Annual Financial Statements, Income Tax Returns, K-1s, and Resolutions
of the Board of Directors regarding the amount of their compensation and the
amount of purported business expenses [Lily Bleu] incurred at their direction.
The representations were false, among other reasons, because they did not
include and/or describe the sums the Directors paid themselves for their
personal expenses, the personal expenses paid to/for their Spouses…” (SAC, ¶
53.) The Court notes that “a demurrer cannot rightfully be sustained to part of a cause
of action or to a particular type of damage or remedy.¿” (¿Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002)
108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1047¿; ¿see also PH II,
Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682 [“A demurrer does not lie to a portion of a cause of
action.”]¿.)
Based
on the foregoing, the Court overrules the demurrer to the fifth cause of
action. 
F.     
Sixth Cause of Action for Negligent
Misrepresentation  
Defendants also assert that the sixth cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation fails. 
Defendants
assert that “Plaintiff’s allegations for the Sixth Cause of
Action are insufficient because Plaintiff alleges conclusions and not facts,”
and that “[a] valid cause of action for negligent misrepresentation
requires particularity in pleading.” (Demurrer at p. 12:13-15.) In support of
this assertion, Defendants cite to Cooper v. Equity Gen. Ins. Co. (1990) 219 Cal.App.3d
1252 and Commonwealth Mortgage Assurance Co. v. Superior
Court (1989) 211 Cal.App.3d 508.
But as noted by Plaintiff, those cases do not discuss the elements of a cause
of action for negligent misrepresentation. 
Defendants
have not cited any applicable legal authority with regard to the sixth cause of
action for negligent misrepresentation, and the Court does not find that Defendants have demonstrated
that this cause of action is insufficiently pled. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court overrules the demurrer to the
sixth cause of action. 
Motion to Strike 
A
court may strike any “¿irrelevant, false, or improper
matter¿inserted in any pleading¿” or any part of
a pleading “¿not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 436¿.) “¿The grounds for
a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 437¿.)   
Defendants
move to strike a number of allegations from the SAC. First, Defendants argue
that “[a]ny claims which Plaintiff could assert with respect to
the Good Day Gardena/Lily Bleu/Director Defendant relationship have long
expired. Thus, all plead allegations in the [SAC] (Paragraphs 21-30) relating
to the leasing arrangement, financial arrangement, and history between Good Day
Gardena, Lily Bleu and Director Defendants are irrelevant and must be stricken.”
(Mot. at p. 4:14-18.) As set forth above, the Court overrules the demurrer to
the third cause of action for unjust enrichment as to Michael Weiss, Barbara
Cambilargiu, and Good Day Gardena Properties. The Court does not find that
Defendants have demonstrated that “[a]ny claims which Plaintiff could assert
with respect to the Good Day Gardena/Lily Bleu/Director Defendant relationship
have long expired.” (Mot. at p. 4:14-15.) Thus, the Court denies Defendants’
motion to strike as to paragraphs 21-30 of the SAC. 
Next, Defendants argue that
“[i]n an unexplained, but obvious effort to dodge the statute of
limitations, Plaintiff eliminated all reference to the events ‘over the last
four years’ and asserted only that ‘this conduct has also been ongoing since
the filing of the Complaint herein. This is evidence of sham pleading and
Defendants request that the allegations be stricken ([SAC] ¶30:12-16.).” (Mot.
at p. 5:11-14.) The Court addressed this argument above in connection with
Defendants’ demurrer. As discussed, the Court overrules the demurrer to the
third cause of action as to Good Day Gardena Properties. Thus, the Court denies
Defendants’ motion to strike paragraph 30 of the SAC. 
Defendants also assert that “[t]o manufacture claims against
Daughters, Plaintiff materially altered his allegations to assert that the same
expenses, salaries, travel, reimbursements, and other benefits which Plaintiff
previously alleged under oath in the [FAC] related to Daughters’ employment
with Lily Bleu, actually do not,” and that “[t]he inconsistent allegations as
to Daughters must be stricken.” (Mot at p. 6:12-15; 6:19-20.) This argument is
addressed above in connection with Defendants’ demurrer, and as discussed
above, the Court sustains the demurrer to the third cause of action as to Jenna
Cambilargiu and Jessica Weiss. The Court thus grants the motion to strike as to
the allegations set forth in paragraphs 2, 4, 9, 10, 11, 24, 25, and 28 of
Defendants’ notice of motion, with leave to amend. The Court also grants the
motion only as to the word “Daughters” in paragraph 11 of the SAC, at line 3:25,
with leave to amend. (Defendants’ Notice of Motion, ¶ 8.) 
Defendants also argue that “[i]n clear contradiction to the
allegations in the [original Complaint] and [FAC], Plaintiff’s [SAC] falsely
alleges Non-Director Defendants knowingly engaged in wrongful conduct in their
relationship with Lily Bleu…Defendants request that all of Plaintiff’s newly
asserted, inconsistent allegations that Non-Director Defendants engaged in
wrongful acts be stricken.” (Mot. at p. 7:4-9.) Defendants’ notice of motion
indicates that Plaintiff moves to strike certain allegations containing the
term “wrongful.” (See Notice of Motion, ¶¶ 1, 3, 5, 6.) The Court notes
that Defendants do not identify any allegations of the original Complaint or
the FAC that are purportedly inconsistent with the “wrongful” allegations
identified in the SAC. Thus, the Court denies Defendants’ motion as to the
allegations identified in paragraphs 1, 3, 5, and 6 of Defendants’ notice of
motion. 
Defendants also argue in the motion that “Plaintiff has attempted to
circumvent the statute of limitations by adding new allegations in his [FAC]
and [SAC] that all the conduct at issue in this lawsuit has been ‘ongoing since
the filing of the Complaint herein.’ These later-included allegations can not
retroactively salvage Plaintiff’s time-barred claims or otherwise cure the
defects of the [original Complaint] (and its service).” (Mot. at p. 8:3-6.) As
discussed above, this argument was rejected in connection with Defendants’
demurrer. Thus, the Court denies Defendants’ motion to strike the allegations
in the SAC that “this conduct has also been ongoing since the filing of the
Complaint herein.” (See Defendants’ Notice of Motion, ¶ 7.) 
Defendants also assert that
the SAC fails to allege sufficient facts to support a claim for punitive
damages. Defendants seek punitive damages in connection with the first cause of
action for breach of fiduciary duty, the fourth cause of action for fraud
(concealment), and the fifth cause of action for fraud (misrepresentation),
(SAC, ¶¶ 36, 51, 57; Prayer for Relief, ¶ 4.) Defendants assert that “Plaintiff
has failed to allege any specific facts by clear and convincing evidence that
show Director Defendants acted with malice, oppression, or fraud as against
Lily Bleu, sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.” (Mot. at p.
9:7-9, emphasis omitted.) 
A
motion to strike may lie where the facts alleged do not rise to the level of “¿malice,
oppression or fraud¿” required to support a punitive damages
award. (¿Turman v. Turning
Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 64¿.)
“‘Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.¿” (¿¿Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)¿¿.) “¿‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct
that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of
that person’s rights.¿” (¿Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (c)(2)¿.) “¿‘Fraud’ means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.¿” (¿Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3)¿.)¿  
As set forth above, the Court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiff’s causes of action for fraud (concealment) and fraud
(misrepresentation). In the fourth cause of action for fraud (concealment),
Plaintiff alleges, inter alia, that “[t]he Defendant Directors intended
to deceive [Lily Bleu] and its shareholders by intentionally
mischaracterizing/disguising the nature of the payments to themselves, the
Spouses and Daughters, so as to conceal said payments.” (SAC, ¶ 49.) Plaintiff
alleges that “[a]s a result of Defendants’ actions, [Lily Bleu], among other
things, has been caused to pay expenses not related to [Lily Bleu], pay sums
that not [sic] owed by [Lily Bleu], robbed [Lily Bleu] of revenues and profits,
caused [Lily Bleu] to misrepresent/misreport its income and expenses to taxing
authorities, thus putting [Lily Bleu] at risk of penalties and interest, and
caused [Lily Bleu] to incur legal expenses, all in an amount to be determined
according to proof at trial.” (SAC, ¶ 50.) 
In addition, in the fifth cause of action for fraud
(misrepresentation), Plaintiff alleges that “[t]he Defendant Directors made
representations to [Lily Bleu] and its shareholders in the Annual Financial
Statements, Income Tax Returns, K-1s, and Resolutions of the Board of Directors
regarding the amount of their compensation and the amount of purported business
expenses [Lily Bleu] incurred at their direction. The representations were
false…” (SAC, ¶ 53.) Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants intended that [Lily
Bleu] and its shareholders rely on the representations in the Annual Financial
Statements, Income Tax Returns, K-1s, and Resolutions of the Board of
Directors, and [Lily Bleu] and its shareholders did reasonably rely on the
representations,” and that “[Lily Bleu] was harmed by Defendants’
misrepresentations; among other things, it has been caused to pay expenses not
related to the Company, pay sums that are not owed by [Lily Bleu], been robbed
of revenues and profits, caused [Lily Bleu] to misrepresent its expenses to
taxing authorities, thus putting [Lily Bleu] at risk of penalties and interest,
and caused [Lily Bleu] to incur legal expenses, all in an amount to be
determined according to proof at trial.” (SAC, ¶¶ 55, 56.) 
The Court accordingly finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged
“fraud” for purposes of his request for punitive damages as against Lily Bleu. Thus,
the Court denies Defendants’ motion to strike paragraphs 36, 51, 57 and paragraph 4 of the Prayer
for Relief. 
Defendants also assert that
“Plaintiff’s prayer for compensatory damages as against non-Director
Defendants is improper. Plaintiff has not evidenced a basis for compensatory
damages based on the underlying claim for ‘unjust enrichment’, which would
require an equitable remedy, such as restitution or disgorgement.” (Mot. at p.
10:9-11.) Plaintiff does not appear to oppose the motion on these grounds.
(Opp’n at pp. 9:25-10:2.)
As set forth above, “[g]enerally, one who is unjustly enriched at
the expense of another is required to make restitution. The elements of a cause
of action for unjust enrichment are simply stated as receipt of a benefit and
unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of another.” (Professional Tax Appeal v.
Kennedy-Wilson Holdings, Inc., supra,
29 Cal.App.5th at p. 238 [internal quotations and citations omitted].) The
only cause of action alleged against the non-Defendant Directors is the third
cause of action for unjust enrichment. Thus, the Court grants the motion to
strike as to paragraph 7 of the Prayer for Relief of the SAC, with leave to
amend. 
Defendants also assert that “Plaintiff’s
prayer for attorneys’ fees and costs as against non-Director Defendants is also
improper,” because “Plaintiff has not alleged any basis for an award of…attorneys’
fees and costs by contract,” and “no statute or law entitles Plaintiff to…attorneys’
fees and costs in a derivative suit as against non-Director Defendants.” (Mot.
at p. 10:12-13; 10:16-18.) Code of Civil
Procedure section 1033.5, subdivision (a)(10) provides that attorney’s fees, when authorized by contract, statute, or law, are
allowable as costs. Plaintiff states that he does not oppose Defendants’ motion
to strike on this matter. (See Opp’n at pp. 9:25-10:2.)
Defendants also assert that “Plaintiff
has not alleged any basis for an award of prejudgement interest” and that “no statute or law entitles Plaintiff to prejudgment
interest…in a derivative suit as against non-Director Defendants.” (Mot. at p.
10:16-18.) In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that an award of prejudgment
interest may be predicated on Civil Code section
3287, subdivision (a), which provides that “[a] person
who is entitled to recover damages certain, or capable of being made certain by
calculation, and the right to recover which is vested in the person upon a
particular day, is entitled also to recover interest thereon from that day,
except when the debtor is prevented by law, or by the act of the creditor from
paying the debt. This section is applicable to recovery of damages and interest
from any debtor...” Plaintiff argues that “[t]he amount recoverable from
unjust enrichment is capable of being made certain by calculation, and…the
right to recover prejudgment interest may lie accordingly.” (Opp’n. at p.
10:7-9.) 
In light of the foregoing, the Court grants the motion to strike as to
paragraph 10 of the Prayer for Relief of the SAC, with leave to amend. 
Lastly, the Court notes that Defendants move to strike certain
allegations containing the term “robbed.” (See Defendants’ Notice of
Motion, ¶¶ 26, 30.) However, Defendants’ memorandum of points and authorities
in support of the motion does not appear to contain any argument or analysis as
to why such allegations should be stricken. Thus, the Court denies the motion
to strike the allegations set forth in paragraphs 26 and 30 of Defendants’
notice of motion. In addition, Defendants’ state that they move to strike
“[t]he phrase ‘not related to or for the benefit of the Company’ appearing on
Pg. 8, Lines 24-25,” (Notice of Mot., ¶ 23), but no such allegations are
contained on page 8:24-25 of the SAC. Thus, the Court denies the motion to
strike as to paragraph 23 of Defendants’ notice of motion. 
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the
Court sustains Defendants’ demurrer to the third cause of action of the SAC for
unjust enrichment as to Carl Cambilargiu, Miriam Weiss, Jessica Weiss, and Jenna
Cambilargiu, with leave to amend. The Court overrules the demurrer to the third
cause of action for unjust enrichment as to Michael Weiss, Barbara
Cambilargiu, and Good Day Gardena Properties. The Court also overrules
Defendants’ demurrer to the fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action of the
SAC. 
The Court grants Defendants motion to
strike in part, with leave to amend, and denies the motion to strike in part,
as set forth above. 
The Court orders Plaintiff
to file and serve an amended complaint, if any, within 20 days of the date of
this order. If no amended complaint
is filed within 20 days of this Order, Michael Weiss, Barbara
Cambilargiu, and Good Day Gardena Properties are ordered to file and serve their
answers within 30 days of the date of this Order. In addition, if no amended
complaint is filed within 20 days of this Order, Carl
Cambilargiu, Miriam Weiss, Jessica Weiss, and Jenna Cambilargiu are ordered to file and serve a proposed
judgment of dismissal within 30 days of the date of this order.¿ 
Defendants are ordered to
give notice of this order.¿  
 
DATED:  December 6, 2023                          ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M.
Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


