 Case Number:  24STCV05772    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
18, 2024                                       TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Howard Scott Jordan II, et al. v. Irina Ioana Ciochiu, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCV05772
 





















 
MOTION
FOR ORDER AUTHORIZING SERVICE BY FACEBOOK, OR ALTERNATIVELY, FINDING GENERAL
APPEARANCE HAS BEEN MADE BY DEFENDANT ION THEODOR CIOCHIU, OR FINDING
SUBSTITUTED SERVICE MAY BE EFFECTUATED 



 
 
I.         INTRODUCTION
 
            This action
arises from a dispute between former business partners.  Plaintiff Howard Scott Jordan II (Jordan) has
extensive knowledge in intellectual property, coding, and marketing.  In November 2022, Defendant Irina Ioana
Ciochiu (Irina) engaged Jordan to work with her and Wynn Capital Management SRL
(Wynn).  Wynn is engaged in the business
of making claims on airport consumers’ behalf in connection with flight delays
and other issues stemming from airline travel. 
Wynn, a Romanian company, is owned by Ion Theodor Ciochiu (Ion).
 
According to Plaintiff, based on Irina’s false
representations that she owns Wynn’s equity, he agreed to enter into a partnership
with Irina.  Jordan and Irina agreed
that, in exchange for Jordan’s contribution to coding and marketing, he would
receive a 49% interest in Wynn’s revenues and profits.  As a means to carry out the partnership Jordan
and Irina created FlightHelp LLC (FlightHelp). 
During the partnership, Jordan contributed services, purchased software,
and helped to develop intellectual property to increase Wynn’s revenue.  
 
The partnership proved fruitful.  Consumer claims totaled over $22,000,000 by
the end of Summer 2023.  Irina embarked
on a scheme to sever Jordan from the partnership, which included but was not
limited to refusing to pay any of Jordan’s development invoices, salary, or
distributions from Wynn’s operations. 
Further, Irina locked Jordan out of any and all Wynn/FlightHelp-related
accounts and depleted FlightHelp’s bank accounts without Jordan’s authorization
or consent.
 
On March 7, 2024, Jordan and FlightHelp (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) commenced this action against Defendants Irina, Ion, Wynn, and
Does 1-20 alleging causes of action for (1) fraud, (2) breach of fiduciary
duty, (3) conversion, (4) breach of partnership agreement, (5) unfair
competition, (6) violations of Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200, et seq. (7)
partnership dissolution (Corp. Code § 16801), (8) violations of Penal Code §
496, (9) accounting, and (10) breach of contract.  Plaintiffs later filed amendments to the
complaint naming International Flight Help Management, Inc. (IFHM) as Doe 1 and
Flight Help Management, LLC (FHM) as Doe 2.
 
On May 13, 2024, Wynn filed a motion to quash service of
summons and complaint.  Ion filed a
declaration in support of the motion to quash. 
Ion has not appeared in this action.
 
On June 27, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this Motion For Order
Authorizing Service by Facebook, or Alternatively, Finding General Appearance
Has Been Made By Defendant Ion Theodor Ciochiu, or Finding Substitute Service
May Be Effectuated (Motion for Alternative Service).  
 
Defendants Irina and IFHM (collectively referred to herein
as Defendants) filed an opposition.  
 
Plaintiffs replied.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Where no law exists for the service of summons in a
particular action, the court may direct that summons be served in a manner
which is reasonably calculated to give actual notice to the party to be served
and that proof of such service be made as prescribed by the court.” (Code Civ.
Proc. (CCP), § 413.30.)    
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 415.30 permits service by
mail with copies of the notice, acknowledgement of receipt of summons, and a
return envelope, postage prepaid, addressed to the sender.   (CCP, §
415.30, subds. (a), (b).)  In addition to this method of service, “the
other three usual methods for completing service within California are (1)
personal delivery to the defendant or someone authorized by law to accept the
summons on the defendant’s behalf (§ 415.10); (2) delivery to someone else at
the defendant's usual residence or place of business (§ 415.20); and (3)
service by publication (§ 415.50).”  (Crane
v. Dolihite (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 772, 786.) “[W]hen none of the four usual
methods of service is available, the trial court has the discretion to
authorize service by another means.” (Ibid.) 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
A.   
Evidentiary Objections
 
Defendants assert objections to the Declaration of Marius Mateescu.
 This court is unaware of any legal
authority which requires a court to rule on evidentiary objections with respect
to motions, except with respect to motions for summary motion/adjudication (CCP § 437c (q)] or special motions to strike (CCP §
425.16 (b)(2); see also, Sweetwater Union High School Dist. v. Gilbane
Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 947-949).  Accordingly, the court declines to rule on
Defendants’ objections.
 
B.    
Analysis 
 
Plaintiffs bases this motion on the grounds that: (i)
despite Plaintiffs’ diligent efforts, Ion is actively evading personal service
of process; (ii) Ion is on actual notice of this action, as he filed a
declaration in this action admitting he understands he has been sued; and (iii)
Ion is regularly on Facebook such that serving him via Facebook Messenger is
the manner of service that is reasonably calculated to give Ion actual notice
of this action. (See Notice of Motion, p. 1:1-15.)  Plaintiffs further allege “[s]erving Ion
through other methods, including international treaties, is impossible given
his constant travels, and may take months or years given those travels.”  (Motion, p. 6:4.)
 
Plaintiffs fail to establish there is no law providing for
service of summons on Ion.  For instance,
Plaintiffs do not establish service by publication (CCP § 415.50) is
unavailable.  (See CCP § 415.50 [providing
for service by publication where it appears based on an affidavit “that the
party to be served cannot with reasonable diligence be served in another manner
specific in this article and that either: (1) A cause of action exists against
the party upon whom service is to be made or he or she is a necessary or proper
party to the action.”].)  
 
Plaintiffs cite Searles v. Archangel (2021) 60
Cal.Appp.5th 43, for the proposition the court has discretion to order service
of summons via social media.  Searles,
however, is not on point.  Searles,
a civil harassment case, and addressed the issue whether a restraining order
could be served by an alternative method—via social media.  Searles argued CCP § 413.30 permitted social
media as an alternative service method.  The
Searles Court disagreed.  The Court
of Appeal wrote, “section 413.30 is inapplicable in this situation: The
necessary prerequisite for the court to authorize an alternative method of
service—that “no provision is made in this chapter or other law for the service
for summons”—is unsatisfied.”  (Searles,
60 Cal.App.5th at p. 54.)  That
observation is relevant here.  Plaintiffs
do not show all methods of service under the CCP are “unsatisified.”
 
Moreover, Defendants correctly argue that the Hague
Convention applies to this case.  Based
on the evidence presented, Ion resides in Romania.  (See Irina Decl., ¶ 3, Exs. A, B.)   Romania is a signatory to the Hague
Convention. (Code Civ. Pro., § 413.10, subd. (c); Convention on the Service
Abroad of Judicial and Extrajudicial Documents in Civil or Commercial Matters,
Nov. 15, 1965, 20 U.S.T. 361, T.I.A.S. No. 6638.)  The Hague Convention has its own service
requirements.  (Denlinger v.
Chinadotcom Corp. (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1396, 1399.)  The law exists for the service of summons in
this action, and alternative service cannot be granted.  Further,
there is no proof of the parties’ agreement to waive formal service of process
in favor of a specified type of notification.  (See Rockefeller Tech. Invs. (Asia) VII v.
Changzhou SinoType Tech. Co. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 125, 145 [stating the Hague Convention
does not apply when parties have agreed to waive formal service of process in
favor of a specified type of notification].) 
 
Plaintiffs attempt to circumvent the Hague Convention by
arguing the Convention “circularly allows for service to be effectuated on a
foreign national in any manner in which the forum state allows for. So, under
the Hague Convention, service on Ion would be proper if California law allows
for such service.”  (Reply, p.
2:7-9.)  In support, Plaintiffs cite
Article 19 of the Convention, which states, “To the extent that the internal
law of a Contracting State permits methods of transmission, other than those
provided for in the preceding Articles, of documents coming from abroad, for
service within its territory, the present Convention shall not affect such
provisions.”  Plaintiffs misread Article
19.  Article 19 refers to the Contracting
State, i.e., the signatory to the Convention.  Thus, the Hague Convention permits service in
any manner in which Romania allows for, not California.  To the extent Plaintiffs base their position
on the premise that Ion is a resident of California, Plaintiffs have not
established Ion resides here.
 
Whether Ion Has Made a General Appearance 
 
Plaintiffs alternatively argue Ion has made a general
appearance in this action.  In support of
this argument, Plaintiffs point to Ion’s declaration filed in support of Wynn’s
motion to quash summons.  
 
CCP section 410.50(a) provides, in pertinent part, that a
“general appearance by a party is equivalent to personal service of summons on
such party.”
 
CCP section 1014 provides, in pertinent part, as follows: “A
defendant appears in an action when the defendant answers, demurs, files a
notice of motion to strike, files a notice of motion to transfer pursuant to
Section 396b, moves for reclassification pursuant to Section 403.040, gives the
plaintiff written notice of appearance, or when an attorney gives notice of
appearance for the defendant.”
 
“The statutory list contained in section 1014 of what
constitutes an appearance is not exclusive. A general appearance occurs when
the defendant takes part in the action or in some manner recognizes the
authority of the court to proceed. [Citation] If the defendant confines its
participation in the action to objecting to lack of jurisdiction over the
person, there is no general appearance. [Citations] However, a party who seeks
relief on any basis other than a motion to quash for lack of personal jurisdiction
will be deemed to have made a general appearance and waived all objections to
defects in service, process, or personal jurisdiction. [Citations] The Courts
of Appeal have described the scope of actions in the litigation process which
constitute a general appearance as follows: ‘A general appearance occurs where
a party, either directly or through counsel, participates in an action in some
manner which recognizes the authority of the court to proceed. It does not
require any formal or technical act. [Citations] ‘If the defendant ‘raises any
other question, or asks for any relief which can only be granted upon the
hypothesis that the court has jurisdiction of his person, his appearance is
general…’ [Citation.]’ [Citations] Thus, if a defendant seeks any affirmative
relief on the merits, the application may be deemed a general appearance.
[Citations]” (Dial 800 v. Fesbinder (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 32, 52-53 (Dial
800); see also Dial 800, at pp. 53-54 [collecting cases where
general appearance found].)  “A court is
thus required to analyze the defendant's papers to determine if any affirmative
relief could be granted on the merits, which is a general appearance.  (Id.
at p. 54.) 
 
Here, Wynn filed the motion to quash.  Ion filed a supporting declaration.  In that declaration, Ion states the
following: (1) he is a resident of Romania, not California (Ion Decl. In
Support of Wynn’s Motion to Quash, ¶¶ 1-2); (2) he has not been personally
served with the summons and complaint (Ion. Decl., ¶ 3); (3) explains Wynn’s
business and its status as a Romanian company (Ion Decl., ¶ 4); (4) attests
that he is the sole owner of Wynn and would likely be Wynn’s person most
qualified (Ion Decl., ¶¶ 5-7); and (5) describes the burden it would impose to require
Wynn to defend this action in California (Ion Decl., ¶ 7).  Ion does not request any affirmative relief
on his or Wynn’s behalf.  Absent a
request for affirmative relief, the court declines to construe Ion’s act of
filing that declaration as a general appearance. 
 
Whether the Court Should Permit Ion to Be Served By Mail in
Los Angeles
 
Plaintiffs advance one last argument.  They argue the court should permit service on
Ion by first-class mail at Irina’s Los Angeles residence because Ion stated in
his Facebook that he is a resident of Los Angeles.  Even if a statement made on a social media
platform were sufficient to establish a party’s residence, Ion’s “residence”
status did not identify Irina’s residence as Ion’s residence. Accordingly,
there is no basis to issue an order permitting Plaintiffs to serve Ion by mail
at Irina’s address.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            The Motion
for Alternative Service is DENIED.
 
Defendants to give notice, unless waived.
 
 
Dated:   September 18,
2024                                   




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




            