  Case Number:  22STCV12365    Hearing Date:   May 17, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County
 of Los Angeles
 



 
KAREN
  OSORIO, et al.;
 
                             Plaintiffs,
 
                              vs.
 
LOS
  ANGELES DODGERS, LLC; 
 
                              Defendant(s).
 


Case No.:  22STCV12365
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  04/12/22
Trial
  Date:  02/24/25
 
 
 



 
Hearing date:              May 17, 2024
Moving Party:             Plaintiff
Karen Osorio
Responding Party:       Defendant
Los Angeles Dodgers LLC
 
(1)  
Motion to Compel Responses to Form
Interrogatories (Set One)
 
(2)  
Motion to Compel Responses to
Special Interrogatories (Set One)
 
(3)  
Motion to Compel Responses to
Requests for Production of Documents (Set One)
 
(4)  
Motion to Deem Admitted Requests
for Admission (Set One)
 
The court
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.
The court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One). The
court orders Defendant to serve responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One), without
objections, within 30 days of the date of this ruling.
The court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant in the reduced
amount of $460 for the motion to compel responses to Form Interrogatories (Set
One). The court orders defendant Los Angeles Dodgers LLC to pay $460 to
plaintiff Karen Osorio, through her counsel of record, within 20 days of the
date of this ruling.
The court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One).
The court orders Defendant to serve responses to Special Interrogatories (Set
One), without objections, within 30 days of the date of this ruling.
The court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant in the reduced
amount of $460 for the motion to compel responses to Special Interrogatories
(Set One). The court orders defendant Los Angeles Dodgers LLC to pay $460 to
plaintiff Karen Osorio, through her counsel of record, within 20 days of the
date of this ruling.
The court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to Requests for Production of Documents
(Set One). The court orders Defendant to serve responses to Requests for
Production of Documents (Set One), without objections, within 30 days of
the date of this ruling.
The court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant in the reduced
amount of $460 for the motion to compel responses to Requests for Production of
Documents (Set One). The court orders defendant Los Angeles Dodgers LLC to pay
$460 to plaintiff Karen Osorio, through her counsel of record, within 20 days
of the date of this ruling.
The court finds
Plaintiff’s motion to deem admitted Requests for Admission (Set One) is MOOT.
The court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant in the reduced
amount of $460 for the motion to deem admitted Requests for Admission (Set
One). The court orders defendant Los Angeles Dodgers LLC to pay $460 to
plaintiff Karen Osorio, through her counsel of record, within 20 days of the
date of this ruling.
 
Background
Plaintiffs Karen
Osorio; Daniel Jacques; Danielle Rickie Jacques; and Demetrius Adrian Ramirez
Jacques, by and through his guardian ad litem, Danielle Rickie Jacques filed
this action on April 12, 2022 against defendant Los Angeles Dodgers, LLC,
alleging causes of action for (1) Negligence; (2) Premises Liability; (3)
Assault; (4) Battery; (5) False Imprisonment; (6) Violation of Federal Civil
Rights; (7) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (8) Negligent
Hiring, Retention, and Supervision. The Complaint alleges that Dodger non-sworn
and off-duty sworn security employees dressed in dark polo shirts assaulted and
battered Plaintiff. (Compl., ¶ 8.) Dodger employees who were off-duty sworn uniformed
Los Angeles Police Department officers allegedly observed Plaintiffs being
unlawfully assaulted and battered but did not intervene to assist Plaintiffs. (Id.)
On August 22,
2023, plaintiff Karen Osorio filed (1) a motion to compel responses to Special
Interrogatories (Set One); and (2) a motion to compel responses to Form
Interrogatories (Set one). Defendant filed oppositions on January 30, 2024.
Plaintiff replied on February 1, 2024.
 
Legal
Standard
If a party to whom interrogatories were
directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding party may move for
an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction. (CCP §
2030.290(b)-(c); see Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
390, 404.) CCP § 2030.290 contains no time limit for a motion to compel where
no responses have been served. All that needs to be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court
(1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.)
If a party to whom requests for production
of documents were directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling responses and for a monetary sanction.
(CCP § 2031.300(b)-(c).) CCP § 2031.300 contains no time limit for a motion to
compel where no responses have been served. The propounding party need not
demonstrate good cause or satisfy a meet-and-confer requirement – all that
needs to be shown in the moving papers is that a set of requests for production
of documents was properly served on the opposing party, that the time to
respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been served. (See Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v.
Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403-04.)
Where there has been no timely response to
a request for admission under CCP § 2033.010, the propounding party may move
for an order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary
sanction. (CCP § 2033.280(b).) CCP § 2033.280(c) states, in relevant part: “The court shall
make this order, unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for
admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a
proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial
compliance with Section 2033.220.
 
Discussion
Motions to
Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories and Form Interrogatories
Merits of the
Motion
Plaintiff Karen
Osorio moves compel responses from defendant Los Angeles Dodgers, LLC to (1)
Special Interrogatories (Set One); and (2) Form Interrogatories (Set One).
Plaintiff contends Defendant served untimely responses, thereby waiving
objections. Plaintiff argues Defendant’s responses do not moot these motions because
they contain objections that were untimely served.
Defendant contends
it served “hybrid” responses with both objections and substantive responses on
November 1, 2022, which are sufficient to preserve objections. Defendant argues
it served verifications for the discovery responses, rendering these motions
moot. Defendant asserts Plaintiff does not claim the objections are improper or
that the substantive responses are insufficient.
A party is
entitled to compel responses without objections if the responding party’s
untimely served discovery responses contain objections. (See Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 408 (“Sinaiko”) [“If a party fails to serve a timely
response to interrogatories, then by operation of law, all objections that it
could assert to those interrogatories are waived. (§ 2030.290, subd. (a).)
Unless that party obtains relief from its waiver, the propounding party is
entitled to move under subdivision (b) for an order compelling the response to
which the propounding party is entitled—that is, a response without objection .
. . .”].)
The court finds
Plaintiff sufficiently shows these motions should be granted. Plaintiff
establishes she propounded Special Interrogatories (Set One) and Form
Interrogatories (Set One) on August 24, 2022. (diDonato Decls. re SROGs &
FROGs (collectively, “diDonato Decls.”), ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) Defendant failed to
serve responses by the September 27, 2022 deadline. (See diDonato Decls., ¶ 4;
diDonato Decl. ISO Reply, ¶ 2.) Defendant does not dispute these facts.
            Instead,
Defendant maintains these motions should be deemed moot and Defendant’s
objections should be preserved because it served responses and verifications
before this hearing on November 1, 2022 and January 25, 2024, respectively.
However, as discussed in Sinaiko, the propounding party may seek a
response without objections if the responding party served untimely responses,
since all objections are waived as a matter of law. (See Sinaiko, supra,
148 Cal.App.4th at 408.) This is consistent with the plain language of the
statute, which states in relevant part: “The party to whom the interrogatories
are directed waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings under
Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the interrogatories . . .
.” (Emphasis added.) In order to sufficiently moot Plaintiff’s motions,
Defendant had to serve responses without objections before the hearing.
But, Defendant failed to do that. Defendant instead inserted objections, which
is improper given its responses were already untimely.
            Accordingly, the court rules as
follows:
The court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One). The
court orders Defendant to serve responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One), without
objections, within 30 days of the date of this ruling.
The court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to Special Interrogatories (Set One).
The court orders Defendant to serve responses to Special Interrogatories (Set
One), without objections, within 30 days of the date of this ruling.
 
            Requests
for Monetary Sanctions
            Plaintiff
requests $860 per motion as monetary sanctions against Defendant for these
motions. Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate is $400. (diDonato Decls., ¶ 4.)
Plaintiff requests to recover per motion two hours and the $60 filing fee. (Id.)
            Defendant
contends Plaintiff should be entitled to no monetary sanctions because Plaintiff’s
counsel filed 15 other related cases and only one matter was set for trial.
Defendant argues the parties agreed they would determine the priority order the
cases would be prepared and that discovery in the matter set for trial would
take precedent. Defendant asserts it told Plaintiff that it was working
diligently to provide complete responses that were delayed due to the parties’
agreement.
            The
court finds monetary sanctions are proper here. While Defendant claims it
assured Plaintiff it was working diligently to provide complete responses,
Defendant’s responses are not complete. Defendant’s responses improperly
contain objections, which Defendant argued for in opposing these motions.
            The
court finds Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate is reasonable, but the hours
Plaintiff seek are unreasonable. These are basic motions that are substantially
the same. Plaintiff requests two hours for preparing the motion and attending
hearing. The court finds reducing Plaintiff’s recoverable time to one hour for
preparing the motion and attending hearing is reasonable. The court finds
Plaintiff’s request for the $60 filing fee is reasonable. Thus, Plaintiff’s
total reduced recoverable amount in attorney’s fees and costs for one motion is
$460 ([1 hour x $400/hour] + $60 filing fee)
            Accordingly,
the court rules as follows:
            The
court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant in
the reduced amount of $460 for the motion to compel responses to Form
Interrogatories (Set One). The court orders defendant Los Angeles Dodgers LLC
to pay $460 to plaintiff Karen Osorio, through her counsel of record, within 20
days of the date of this ruling.
The court GRANTS
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant in the reduced
amount of $460 for the motion to compel responses to Special Interrogatories
(Set One). The court orders defendant Los Angeles Dodgers LLC to pay $460 to
plaintiff Karen Osorio, through her counsel of record, within 20 days of the
date of this ruling.
 
Motion to Compel
Responses to Requests for Production of Documents
Merits of the
Motion
Plaintiff Karen
Osorio moves compel responses from defendant Los Angeles Dodgers, LLC to
Requests for Production of Documents (Set One). Plaintiff contends Defendant
served untimely responses, thereby waiving objections. Plaintiff argues
Defendant’s responses do not moot this motion because they contain objections
that were untimely served.
Defendant
contends it served “hybrid” responses with both objections and substantive
responses on November 1, 2022, which are sufficient to preserve objections.
Defendant argues it served verifications for the discovery responses, rendering
this motion moot. Defendant asserts Plaintiff does not claim the objections are
improper or that the substantive responses are insufficient.
A party is entitled to compel responses
without objections if the responding party’s untimely served discovery
responses contain objections. (See Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v.
Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 408 (“Sinaiko”)
[“If a party fails to serve a timely response to interrogatories, then by
operation of law, all objections that it could assert to those interrogatories
are waived. (§ 2030.290, subd. (a).) Unless that party obtains relief from its
waiver, the propounding party is entitled to move under subdivision (b) for an
order compelling the response to which the propounding party is entitled—that
is, a response without objection . . . .”].)
The court finds
Plaintiff sufficiently shows this motion should be granted. Plaintiff
establishes she propounded Requests for Production of Documents (Set One) on
August 24, 2022. (diDonato Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) Defendant failed to serve
responses by the September 27, 2022 deadline. (See diDonato Decl., ¶ 3;
diDonato Decl. ISO Reply, ¶ 2.) Defendant does not dispute these facts.
            Instead,
Defendant maintains this motion should be deemed moot and Defendant’s
objections should be preserved because it served responses and verifications
before this hearing on November 1, 2022 and January 25, 2024, respectively.
However, as discussed in Sinaiko, the propounding party may seek a
response without objections if the responding party served untimely responses,
since all objections are waived as a matter of law. (See Sinaiko, supra,
148 Cal.App.4th at 408.) This is consistent with the plain language of the
statute, which states in relevant part: “The party to whom the demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed waives any objection
to the demand . . . .” (CCP § 2031.300(a), emphasis added.) Thus, to
sufficiently moot Plaintiff’s motion, Defendant had to serve responses without
objections before the hearing. But, Defendant failed to do that. Defendant
instead inserted objections, which is improper given its responses were already
untimely.
The court
therefore GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to Requests for
Production of Documents (Set One). The court orders Defendant to serve
responses to Requests for Production of Documents (Set One), without objections,
within 30 days of the date of this ruling.
 
            Request
for Monetary Sanctions
            Plaintiff
requests $860 in attorney’s fees and costs as monetary sanctions against
Defendant for this motion. Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate is $400. (diDonato
Decls., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff requests to recover two hours and the $60 filing fee. (Id.)
            Defendant
contends Plaintiff should be entitled to no monetary sanctions because
Plaintiff’s counsel filed 15 other related cases and only one matter was set
for trial. Defendant argues the parties agreed they would determine the
priority order the cases would be prepared and that discovery in the matter set
for trial would take precedent. Defendant asserts it told Plaintiff that it was
working diligently to provide complete responses that were delayed due to the
parties’ agreement.
            The
court finds monetary sanctions are proper here. While Defendant claims it
assured Plaintiff it was working diligently to provide complete responses,
Defendant’s responses are not complete. Defendant’s responses improperly
contain objections, which Defendant argued for in opposing this motion.
            The
court finds Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate is reasonable, but the hours
Plaintiff seek are unreasonable. This is a basic motion that is substantially
the same as Plaintiff’s other concurrently-filed discovery motions. Plaintiff
requests two hours for preparing the motion and attending hearing. The court
finds reducing Plaintiff’s recoverable time to one hour for preparing the
motion and attending hearing is reasonable. The court finds Plaintiff’s request
for the $60 filing fee is reasonable. Thus, Plaintiff’s total reduced
recoverable amount in attorney’s fees and costs for this motion is $460 ([1
hour x $400/hour] + $60 filing fee)
            The
court therefore GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against
Defendant in the reduced amount of $460 for the motion to compel responses to
Requests for Production of Documents (Set One). The court orders defendant Los
Angeles Dodgers LLC to pay $460 to plaintiff Karen Osorio, through her counsel
of record, within 20 days of the date of this ruling.
 
            Motion
to Deem Admitted Requests for Admission (Set One)
            Plaintiff
moves to deem admitted the matters in Requests for Admission (Set One) to
Defendant. Here, the parties make the same arguments as those discussed for the
motion above.
            Under
CCP § 2033.280(c), “[t]he court shall make [an order that the genuineness of
any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted], unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission
have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed
response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance
with Section 2033.220.” (Emphasis added.)
            CCP
§ 2033.220 states:
 
(a)  
Each answer in a response to
requests for admission shall be as complete and straightforward as the
information reasonably available to the responding party permits.
 
(b)  
Each answer shall:
 
(1)  
Admit so much of the matter
involved in the request as is true, either as expressed in the request itself
or as reasonably and clearly qualified by the responding party.
 
(2)  
Deny so much of the matter involved
in the request as is untrue.
(3)  
Specify so much of the matter
involved in the request as to the truth of which the responding party lacks
sufficient information or knowledge.
 
(c)  
If a responding party gives lack of
information or knowledge as a reason for a failure to admit all or part of a
request for admission, that party shall state in the answer that a reasonable
inquiry concerning the matter in the particular request has been made, and that
the information known or readily obtainable is insufficient to enable that
party to admit the matter.
 
Defendant served
responses and a verification before this hearing on November 1, 2022 and
January 25, 2024, respectively. (See Jackson Decl., ¶¶ 2-3, Exhs. A-B.) The
court finds Defendant’s responses substantially comply with CCP § 2033.220.
None of Defendant’s responses contain objections. (See id. at ¶ 2, Exh.
A.) Defendant provided a straightforward admit/deny response for all but four
of the 28 requests for admission. For the four responses that do not consist of
a straightforward admit/deny answer, Defendant provided a qualified admit/deny
response, which is allowed under the statute. Thus, the court finds Defendant’s
responses to Requests for Admission (Set One) are sufficient to moot this
motion.
The court
therefore finds Plaintiff’s motion to deem admitted Requests for Admission (Set
One) is MOOT.
 
Request for
Monetary Sanctions
Plaintiff
requests $860 in attorney’s fees and costs as monetary sanctions against
Defendant for this motion. Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate is $400. (diDonato
Decls., ¶ 4.) Plaintiff requests to recover two hours and the $60 filing fee. (Id.)
Here, the parties make the same arguments as those discussed for the request
for monetary sanctions for the motion above.
            CCP
§ 2033.280(c) states in relevant part: “It is mandatory that the court impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) on the
party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to
requests for admission necessitated this motion.”
            Thus,
the statute makes imposing monetary sanctions mandatory for this motion and
does not allow the court discretion to consider any substantial justification.
Even though Plaintiff’s motion is moot, Defendant still served untimely
responses so the proper procedure is to impose mandatory sanctions. For the
same reasons discussed for the motion above, the court finds Plaintiff should
recover a reduced amount in attorney’s fees and costs of $460 ([1 hour x
$400/hour] + $60 filing fee) for this motion.
The court
therefore GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant
in the reduced amount of $460 for the motion to deem admitted Requests for
Admission (Set One). The court orders defendant Los Angeles Dodgers LLC to pay
$460 to plaintiff Karen Osorio, through her counsel of record, within 20 days
of the date of this ruling.
 
It is so
ordered.
 
Dated:
May 17, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court