..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22LBCV00355
Plaintiff's Name: Chelsey Binz
Defendant's Name: LBMMC, et al
People-Names: Dr. Bhatia, Scott Serden, M.D., Howard C. Mandel, M.D.
Company-Names: LBMMC
Places: None
Dates: March 7, 2024
Events: Labor and delivery complications, medical negligence, summary judgment motion
Money: None
Intentions: Plaintiff seeks damages for medical negligence and NIED
Facts: Plaintiff's child, Indiana Rayne Van Den Oever, suffered damage due to complications during labor and delivery
Disputes: Defendant moves for summary judgment, arguing no triable issues of material fact exist
Acts: Defendant provides evidence, including declarations from experts, to support motion
Agreements: None
Laws: California Civil Procedure Code, ยง437c(c), ยง437c(o)(2)
Case Citations: Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 574, 590; Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850
Statutes: Code of Civil Procedure, ยง437c(p); California Civil Procedure Code, ยง437c(c)
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant, Experts (Dr. Serden and Dr. Mandel)
Significant Statements:
* Defendant must show either (1) that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is a complete defense to that cause of action.
* Plaintiff's opposition to the motion must show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or defense thereto.
* The Court cannot weigh the evidence or determine the strength of expert opinions at the summary judgment stage.
* Plaintiff's declaration, including her own testimony, raises triable issues of material fact concerning breach of standard of care and causation.
```

Summary in English text:
This is a tentative ruling on a summary judgment motion filed by the defendant, LBMMC, et al. The plaintiff, Chelsey Binz, seeks damages for medical negligence and negligent infliction of emotional distress (NIED) due to complications during her labor and delivery, which caused damage to her child, Indiana Rayne Van Den Oever. The defendant argues that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he complied with the standard of care. The plaintiff opposes the motion, arguing that expert evidence raises triable issues of material fact concerning breach of standard of care and causation. The Court finds that the plaintiff's declaration, including her own testimony, raises triable issues of material fact and denies the summary judgment motion.
