 Case Number:  23LBCV01355    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Johnpaul Arnwine filed
this action against Defendant, SCE for damages arising out of an accident that
occurred when an energized power line made contact with Plaintiff’s vehicle,
which was filled with gasoline, causing it to burst into flames.  Plaintiff jumped from the cab of the vehicle,
causing him to sustain injuries.  
 
2.     Motion
to Strike
a.    
Moving Request
Defendant moves to strike
Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages and all related allegations from the SAC.  
 
b.     Basis
for Punitive Damages Request
Plaintiffs contend they are
entitled to punitive damages for three reasons. 
First, they allege the subject power line had fallen at least once
before.  Second, they allege SCE knew the
power line was in the vicinity of trucks that regularly carry gasoline,
rendering the safety issue relating to a downed power line more severe.  Third, they allege the failure to properly
repair the downed power line was part of a top-down corporate culture of “normalized
deviation.”    
 
c.     Standard
for Imposition of Punitive Damages
Imposition of punitive damages on
SEC is governed not just by Civil Code §3294, but also by California Public Utilities
Code §2106, which provides, in pertinent part:
Any public utility which does,
causes to be done, or permits any act, matter, or thing prohibited or declared
unlawful, or which omits to do any act, matter, or thing required to be done,
either by the Constitution, any law of this State, or any order or decision of
the commission, shall be liable to the persons or corporations affected thereby
for all loss, damages, or injury caused thereby or resulting therefrom. If
the court finds that the act or omission was wilful, it may, in addition to the
actual damages, award exemplary damages. An action to recover for such
loss, damage, or injury may be brought in any court of competent jurisdiction
by any corporation or person.
 
d.     §2106
Pursuant to Brousseau v. Jarrett
(1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 864, 872, specific factual allegations are required to
support a claim for punitive damages.  The
Court finds Plaintiff has failed to do so in this case.  The allegations of ¶2, wherein Plaintiff
alleges the subject line had fallen before, includes myriad conclusions, such
as “On information and belief, SCE’s repair, construction, maintenance, and inspection
of the ENERGIZED ELECTRICAL LINE was knowingly deficient and/or SCE disregarded
the dangerous condition of the ENERGIZED ELECTRICAL LINE prior to the May 11
incident.”  
 
Plaintiff, if he wishes to plead sufficient
facts to support his prayer for punitive damages, must plead specific facts
concerning any prior failure of the line and prior attempts to fix the
line.  Merely alleging that the line fell
previously and SCE failed to fix it is insufficient to support a conclusion
that the failure to repair was “willful.” 
This is so even with the companion conclusory allegations concerning
flawed and dangerous safety culture; absent facts showing that the particular
line at issue was improperly repaired due to that culture, the Court cannot
find any improper maintenance of the line was willful.  
 
The motion to strike is
granted.  Leave to amend is granted if
and only if Plaintiff can plead specific facts concerning prior failures and
repairs of the line that would lead to the conclusion that the failure to
repair was willful.  
 
e.     Conclusion
If Plaintiff wishes to amend his
complaint, he must do so within twenty days. 
Defendant must file a responsive pleading within the statutory time
thereafter.  If Plaintiff does not file
an amended complaint within twenty days, then Defendant must file an answer to
the complaint, with the prayer for punitive damages and related allegations
deemed stricken, within thirty days of today’s hearing date (ten days after the
FAC is due).
 
SCE is ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   