 Case Number:  22LBCV00355    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Chelsey
Binz filed this action against Defendants, LBMMC, et al. for damages arising
out of complications that arose during her labor and delivery.  The complications ultimately caused damage to
her child, Indiana Rayne Van Den Oever.   
 
Plaintiff’s
complaint includes causes of action for medical negligence, corporate hospital
liability, concealment, and NIED.  The
first and fourth causes of action are pled against Defendant, Dr. Bhatia.
 
2.    
Motion
for Summary Judgment
a.    
Standard on Summary Judgment
Summary judgment is proper “if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §437c(c).)  Where a defendant seeks summary judgment or
adjudication, he must show that either “one or more elements of the cause of
action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action.” 
(Id. at §437c(o)(2).)  A defendant
may satisfy this burden by showing that the claim “cannot be established” because
of the lack of evidence on some essential element of the claim.  (Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31
Cal.App.4th 574, 590.)  Once the
defendant meets this burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a
“triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action
or defense thereto.”  (Ibid.)  
 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) 
A defendant moving for summary judgment must show either (1) that one or
more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or (2) that there is
a complete defense to that cause of action. 
(Id. at §437c(p).)  A defendant
may discharge this burden by furnishing either (1) affirmative evidence of the required
facts or (2) discovery responses conceding that the plaintiff lacks evidence to
establish an essential element of the plaintiff's case. If a defendant chooses
the latter option he or she must present evidence “and not simply point out that
plaintiff does not possess and cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence….” Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at 865-66,
[A] defendant may simply show the
plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action “by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.” (Id. at p. 854.)  Thus,
rather than affirmatively disproving or negating an element (e.g., causation),
a defendant moving for summary judgment has the option of presenting evidence
reflecting the plaintiff does not possess evidence to prove that element. “The
defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively negates an
element of the plaintiff's cause of action. The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence—as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery
to the effect that he has discovered nothing” to support an essential element
of his case. (Aguilar, supra, at p. 855.) Under the latter approach, a
defendant's initial evidentiary showing may “consist of the deposition
testimony of the plaintiff's witnesses, the plaintiff's factually devoid discovery
responses, or admissions by the plaintiff in deposition or in response to
requests for admission that he or she has not discovered anything that supports
an essential element of the cause of action.” (Lona v. Citibank, N.A., supra,
202 Cal.App.4th at p. 110.)  In other words,
a defendant may show the plaintiff does not possess evidence to support an
element of the cause of action by means of presenting the plaintiff's factually
devoid discovery responses from which an absence of evidence may be reasonably
inferred. (Scheiding v. Dinwiddie Construction Co. (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 64,
83.)
 
Thus, a moving defendant has two
means by which to shift the burden of proof under the summary judgment statute:
“The defendant may rely upon factually insufficient discovery responses by the
plaintiff to show that the plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of
the cause of action sued upon. [Citation.] [Or a]lternatively, the defendant
may utilize the tried and true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an essential
element of the plaintiff's cause of action.” (Brantly v. Pisaro (1996) 42
Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.) 
Leyva v. Garcia (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th
1095, 1103.
 
Until the moving defendant has
discharged its burden of proof, the opposing plaintiff has no burden to come
forward with any evidence. Once the moving defendant has discharged its burden
as to a particular cause of action, however, the plaintiff may defeat the motion
by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to that cause of action. 
(Id. at §437c(p)(2).)  On a motion
for summary judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are strictly
construed and those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the
propriety of summary judgment should be resolved against granting the
motion.  (D’Amico v. Board of Medical
Examiners (1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.) 
 

Evidentiary Objections

Plaintiff filed objections with her
opposition papers.  Her objections are
overruled.  Defendant filed objections
with his reply papers.  The objections
are overruled.
 

Parties’ Positions

Defendant moves for judgment on the
complaint, contending (a) he complied with the standard of care at all times
and nothing he did caused or contributed to Plaintiff’s injuries, and (b) there
is no independent cause of action for NIED under CA law and, in any event,
because Plaintiff cannot show negligence, she cannot show NIED.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the motion.  She argues (a) (b) expert evidence raises a
triable issue of material fact concerning breach of the standard of care and
damages, and (c) her claim for NIED should survive summary judgment.  
 
Defendant, in reply, contends
Plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of material fact concerning standard
of care/causation.  
 

Breach
     of Standard of Care and Causation

Defendant provides
evidence, by way of the Declaration of Scott Serden, M.D., that he complied
with the standard of care and that nothing he did caused or contributed to
Plaintiff’s damages.  This is sufficient
to meet the moving burden on summary judgment, and the burden shifts to
Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of material fact.  
 
Plaintiff does so
by way of the Declaration of Howard C. Mandel, M.D.  Defendant, in reply, argues Dr. Mandel’s opinion
is not well-reasoned and should be disregarded. 
The Court cannot, at the summary judgment stage, weigh the evidence or
determine the strength of Dr. Mandel’s opinions.  The Court has reviewed the declaration, and
finds it is sufficient, at the summary judgment stage, to raise triable issues
of material fact.  
 
By way of example,
Defendant argues Dr. Mandel is not qualified to opine as to what Plaintiff
would or would not have done if a C-section had been offered to her at the time
of delivery.  The declaration, however,
must be read in connection with Plaintiff’s own declaration, wherein she declares
that she repeatedly requested a C-section. 
Notably, at ¶12 of Plaintiff’s declaration, she specifically declares that,
had she known the risks, she would have demanded a C-section.  
 
Also by way of
example, Defendant argues, at page 7, lines 13-21, that the analysis re:
Pitocin in the opposing expert declaration is flawed.  Specifically, Defendant argues Pitocin is
ordered by the physician and titrated by nursing pursuant to nursing protocol.  He then argues that he ordered it and stated
it should be titrated by nursing and gave the parameters.  He argues Plaintiff’s expert’s testimony is
flawed because Plaintiff’s expert says Pitocin should have been discontinued or
decreased, but does not actually state that Defendant is the one who should
have titrated it.  All of this is in the
realm of expert testimony, but it appears Defendant is arguing he provided the
parameters but he was not the one who should have decided whether to
discontinue or decrease the drug.  It seems
discontinuing a drug would change the parameters, such that Plaintiff’s expert’s
opinion raises a triable issue of material fact in this regard.  

NIED

To the extent
Defendant makes an alternative motion for summary adjudication of the NIED
cause of action, the motion is denied. 
NEID is the common mechanism for claiming emotional distress as a result
of negligence.  Notably, Defendant’s
separate statement in connection with this cause of action merely incorporates
the facts relating to standard of care and causation, such that the ruling on the
summary adjudication motion rises and falls with the ruling on the summary judgment
motion.  
 

Conclusion
     

The summary
judgment motion is denied.  The alternative
summary adjudication motion is also denied.
 
Moving Defendant is
ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   