  Case Number:  21LBCV00329    Hearing Date:   March 7, 2024    Dept:  S27 a.    
Papers Received in Support of Motion
Plaintiffs’ attorney filed a motion
to be relieved as counsel, declaration in support of motion, and proposed order
on motion on 1/30/24, setting the motion for hearing on 3/07/24.  Counsel declares withdrawal is mandatory
under the rules, but Plaintiffs have refused to sign a substitution of attorney
form.  She declares she served her
clients by mail at a confirmed address, which address was confirmed by “searching
online for corporate filing information for the Plaintiff, Broadband Services,
Group, Inc. which is properly known as Broadband Service Group, Inc.”  She then says, “See, for example, attached
Exhibit A.”
 
Exhibit A is a print-out from the
State of Michigan Corporations Division website, and shows Broadband Service
Group, Inc.’s registered agent is Robert R. Lord at 8411 W. Stormer Road in
Empire, Michigan.  It states that the
registered office mailing address is PO Box 227 in Empire Michigan.  IT then states that the officers and directors
of the corporation are all Robert Lord, with address 4487 Fenton Road in Burton,
Michigan.  
 
Counsel’s proof of service declares
the papers were served on Lord at the Stormer Road and PO Box 227 addresses in
Empire.  
 
On 2/16/24, Counsel filed a
supplemental declaration in support of the motion.  She declares she also served the papers on
her clients by email, at an address from which she received nine emails between
2/01/24 and 2/02/24, meaning the email address is current and accurate.  She declares the priority mail envelopes she
served on Plaintiffs have tracking that shows confirmed delivery.  
 
b.    
Initial Note re: Ex Parte Application
On 2/21/24, the Court heard and
denied Counsel’s ex parte application to be relieved as counsel, noting that the
matter should be heard by way of noticed motion.
 
c.    
Service Concerns
The Court has concerns about
service.  To the extent the documents
were served by email, there is no proof of service by email.  The Court cannot consider a declaration re:
service by email without a proof of email service.  
 
To the extent the documents were
served by priority mail, the Court is concerned that the address is not
confirmed.  The fact that there is a
website showing the address does not mean the address has been confirmed current
within the past thirty days.  Notably,
the website print-out states that the most recent report with officers and
directors was in 2020 and the most recent annual report was in 2021.  Additionally, the Court is not clear on what
the Fenton Road address is, which is also listed on the report.  The Court is aware that these websites often
do not contain current address information, and this type of website is not a
typical or recognized way of “confirming” a client’s address.  
 
d.     Approaching
Trial Date
The Court is also concerned about
the fast-approaching trial date, which is scheduled on 4/22/24.  Unlike their clients, attorneys do not have
an absolute right to withdraw from representation at any time with or without
cause. Even where grounds for termination exist, attorneys seeking to withdraw
must comply with the procedures set forth in California Rule of Professional
Conduct (CRPC) 3-700 and are subject to discipline for failure to do so.  Where withdrawal is not mandatory, an
attorney normally must continue representation on the matter undertaken. The
fact the client or matter proves unpleasant or unprofitable does not excuse
attorney performance. The rules have been liberally construed to protect
clients.  See Vann v. Shilleh (1975) 54
Cal.App.3d 192, 197; Chaleff v. Superior Court (1977) 69 Cal.App.3d 721;
Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 904, 915. 
 
 An attorney, either with the client's consent
or the court's approval, may withdraw from a case when withdrawal can be
accomplished without undue prejudice to the client's interests.  A lawyer violates his or her ethical mandate
by abandoning a client (Pineda v. State Bar (1989) 49 Cal.3d 753, 758 759), or
by withdrawing at a critical point and thereby prejudicing the client’s case. CRPC
3 700(A)(2); Vann, supra, 54 Cal.App.3d at p. 197.  
 
The Court is aware that Counsel
declares she is nearing retirement and not prepared to or able to take a case
all the way to trial.  It is unclear,
however, whether Plaintiffs have known this since the outset of
litigation.  Counsel has been
representing Plaintiffs since 8/21/23, and this case has been pending since
6/16/21.  Notably, one of the two
plaintiffs is an entity, which means it cannot represent itself and risks
dismissal of its claims at trial if it lacks representation.  
 
For this additional reason, the motion
is denied.
 
Counsel is ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   