 Case Number:  23NWCV01842    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  C David
John Kearney, et al. vs Briana Gonzalez, et al., Case No.: 23NWCV01842
This is
a personal injury action.  Defendants Briana
Gonzales and Joseph Hoban apply ex parte to dismiss Plaintiffs’ Complaint and
enter judgment in their favor the grounds that Plaintiffs failed to file an
amended complaint within the time period prescribed by the Court after
Defendants’ demurrer was sustained on June 14, 2024 with 20 days leave to amend.  
 
“The court
may dismiss the complaint as to that defendant when … (2) Except where Section
597 applies, after a demurrer to the complaint is sustained with leave to amend,
the plaintiff fails to amend it within the time allowed by the court and either
party moves for dismissal.” (CCP §581, subd. (f)(2).) “A motion to dismiss the
entire action and for entry of judgment after expiration of the time to amend
following the sustaining of a demurrer may be made by ex parte application to
the court under Code of Civil Procedure section 581(f)(2).” (California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1320(h).)  
 
On June
14, 2023, Plaintiffs David John Kearney, Jimmy Rey Patrick, and Tonia Perez (as
successor in interest to Alex Christopher Villeda, deceased) brought suit
against Defendants Briana Gonzalez and Joseph Hoban for 1) Negligence and 2) Vicarious
Liability.  Plaintiff/Successor-in-Interest
Tonia Perez and Plaintiff Jimmy Rey Patrick are the surviving parents of
Decedent.  Plaintiff David John Kearney
is the surviving partner and friend of Decedent.  On June 11, 2024, this Court sustained
Defendant Briana Gonzalez’s Demurrer to the First Cause of Action as to
Plaintiff Kearny and Defendant Hoban’s Demurrer to the First Cause of Action as
to all Plaintiffs, with 20 days leave to amend.  The amended complaint was due on July 1,
2024.  As of today’s date, no amended
complaint has been filed.  
 
Accordingly,
Defendants Briana Gonzalez and Joseph Hoban’s ex parte application to dismiss the
entire action against them and enter judgment in their favor is GRANTED.  The Complaint is dismissed pursuant to CCP §581,
subd. (f)(2).  Judgment is entered in
favor of Defendants Briana Gonzalez and Joseph Hoban and against Plaintiffs David
John Kearney, Jimmy Rey Patrick, and Tonia Perez (as successor in interest to
Alex Christopher Villeda, deceased).  Defendants
to give notice.  