 Case Number:  23NWCV00895    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  C Myra Sagastume vs Nissan North
America, Inc.
Case No.: 23NWCV00895
Hearing Date: August 13, 2024 @ 09:30 a.m. 
 
#2 
Tentative Ruling 
Defendant Nissan North America, Inc.’s motion to compel
arbitration and stay proceedings is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff to give NOTICE.
 
 
Defendant Nissan North America, Inc. (Defendant) moves
for an order compelling arbitration and staying proceedings.
 
Background
 
On July 31, 2022, Plaintiff Myra Sagastume (“Plaintiff”)
entered into a Retail Installment Sales Contract (“RISC”) to finance the
purchase of a 2022 Nissan Rogue from Cerritos Nissan. 
 
Plaintiff contends that the vehicle was defective and
attempts to repair the vehicle failed to cure the defects. Plaintiff sued Defendant
Nissan North America, Inc. (“Defendant”) alleging violations of the
Song-Beverly Act.
 
Defendant now seeks to compel arbitration under the RISC
and its accompanying arbitration agreement. The arbitration provision in the
RISC states:
 
“Either you or we may choose to have any dispute between us decided by
arbitration and not in court or by jury trial. . . . Any claim or dispute,
whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation
and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or
dispute), between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns,
which arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase or
condition of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or
relationship (including any such relationship with third parties who do not
sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be resolved by neutral,
binding arbitration and not by a court action.
 
Equitable Estoppel
 
A nonsignatory manufacturer can compel arbitration under
equitable estoppel “when the causes of action against the nonsignatory are
‘intimately founded in and intertwined’ with the underlying contract
obligations.” (Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (Felisilda) (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486,
495.) The causes of actions are intimately founded in and intertwined even if
they do not exclusively rely on the contract terms. “‘The fundamental point’ is
that a party is ‘not entitled to
make use of [a contract containing an arbitration clause]
as long as it worked to [his or] her advantage, then attempt to avoid its
application in defining the forum in which [his or] her dispute . . . should be
resolved.’” (Id. at 496.)
 
The court in Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th 486,
496-497, held that the manufacturer could compel arbitration because the
condition of the vehicle was within the subject matter of the claims made
arbitrable under the sale contract, the sale contract was the source of the manufacturer’s
warranties under which plaintiffs were suing, and plaintiffs had expressly
agreed to arbitrate claims arising out of the condition of the vehicle, even
against third party nonsignatories. The court in Ford, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th
1324, disagreed with Felisilda that
arbitration could be compelled under an identical
arbitration provision. This Court can now choose to either continue to follow
Felisilda or instead adopt Ford’s reasoning. (Sarti v. Salt Creek Ltd. (2008)
167 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1193 [“All trial courts are bound by all published decisions
of the Court of Appeal . . . Unlike at least some federal intermediate
appellate courts, though, there is no horizontal stare decisis in the
California Court of Appeal.”].)
 
The Ford court disagreed with Felisilda on the grounds
that the fact “[t]hat the Felisilda plaintiffs and the Dealers agreed in their
sale contract to arbitrate disputes between them about the condition of the
vehicle does not equitably estop the plaintiffs from asserting [the
manufacturer] has no right to demand arbitration. Equitable estoppel would
apply if the plaintiffs had sued [the
manufacturer] based on the terms of the sale contract yet
denied [the manufacturer] could enforce the arbitration clause in that
contract.” (Ford, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, 1334.) The Ford court held that
the plaintiffs’ claims did not arise in the sale contracts and instead on the statutory
obligations under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, breach of implied
warranty of merchantability, and fraudulent inducement. “Not one of the
plaintiffs sued on any express contractual language in the sale contract.”
(Ford, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, 1335.) Specifically, the contract contained
provisions that disclaimed any warranty by the Dealers, “while acknowledging no
effect on ‘any warranties covering the vehicle that the vehicle manufacturer
may provide.” (Ibid.) Further, the California Supreme Court distinguished
between warranties from the seller arising out of contract and warranties from
the manufacturer arising “independently of a contract of sale between the
parties.” (Greenman v. Yuba Power Products, Inc. (1963) 59 Cal.2d 57, 60.)
Thus, plaintiffs’ claims were not “intimately founded in and intertwined” with
the sale contracts because the sale contracts do not intend to cover the manufacturer’s
warranties. (Ford, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, 1336.) Therefore, equitable estoppel
does not apply to compel plaintiffs to arbitrate their claims because
plaintiffs were not making use of the terms of the sale contracts. (Ibid.) 
 
This Court chooses to follow Fords reasoning.
 
Discussion
 
Defendant cannot compel arbitration because Plaintiffs’
claims arise from Defendant’s statutory obligation and are not based on any
express contractual language. Equitable estoppel is applicable where one party
relies on a contract, which includes an arbitration provision, in asserting its
claims against a third party but attempts to avoid its application to
determining the forum in pursuing its claims. (Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th
486, 496.) Here, like in Ford, Plaintiffs’ claims “are based on [Defendant’s]
statutory obligations to reimburse consumers or replace their vehicles when
unable to repair in accordance with its warranty,” not based “on any express
contractual language in the sale contracts.” (Ford, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th 1324,
1335.)
 
Plaintiffs’ claims do not arise directly out of the RISC,
even if Defendant’s warranties accompanied the sale of the subject vehicle.
“The sale contracts include no warranty, nor any assurance regarding the
quality of the vehicle sold, nor any promise of repairs or other remedies in
the event problems arise. To the contrary, the sale contracts disclaim any
warranty on the part of the dealers, while acknowledging no effect on ‘any
warranties covering the vehicle that the
vehicle manufacturer may provide.’ In short, the
substantive terms of the sale contracts relate to sale and financing and
nothing more.” (Ibid.) Similarly, here the RISC includes no warranty, any assurance
regarding the quality of the vehicle, no promise to make repairs, and disclaims
any manufacturer warranty. Defendant further argues that the claims necessarily
arise from the RISC
because Plaintiffs could not have obtained the vehicle
and the accompanying manufacturer warranties but for signing the RISC. However,
Plaintiffs could have purchased a new vehicle through some other source of
funding such as cash or an outside loan. Thus, like Ford, Plaintiffs’ claims
arise from Defendant’s statutory obligation and not from the sale contract.
Therefore, Defendant may not compel arbitration because Plaintiffs’ claims are
not intimately found in or
intertwined with the RISC.
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration and
stay proceedings is DENIED.
 