  Case Number:  21NWCV00580    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  C LYONS, ET AL. v. WHITE, ET AL. 
CASE
NO.: 21NWCV00580
HEARING:
8/13/24 @ 10:30 A.M. 
 
#7
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant and Cross-Complainant’s Motion for Stay of Proceedings is
DENIED.  
 
Opposing Party to give NOTICE. 
 
 
Factual
and Procedural Background
 
This
is a partnership dispute. In October 2018, Plaintiffs Justin Lyons and Randy
Porosky founded Ripple, a technology platform, with Defendant Daniel White. (Compl.,
¶¶ 17 and 18.) Defendant White separately owns Defendant LA Pilates, an exercise
studio. (Compl., ¶ 22.) Defendants White and LA Pilates use Ripple at no
charge, which causes Ripple to lose revenue. (Compl., ¶ 22.) Defendants conspired
to create Defendant Gym Driver, Inc. which competes with Ripple and uses the
same Ripple technology and platform that Plaintiffs bought from Cameron Marcum.
(Compl., ¶ 23.) Defendant White has caused Ripple clients to switch to
Defendant Gym Driver, Inc. and has made false statements attacking Plaintiffs’
and Ripple’s integrity. (Ibid.) 
 
On
September 8, 2021, Plaintiffs sued Defendants Daniel White; LA Pilates Holdings
LLC; LA Pilates Downey LLC; LA Pilates La Habra LLC; LA Pilates Norwalk LLC; LA
Pilates Long Beach LLC; and Gym Driver, Inc., alleging that they engaged in
actionable misconduct to harm them and the business, including diversion of
clients, assets, and corporate opportunities. 
 
On
November 15, 2021, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Daniel White sued
Cross-Defendants Justin Lyons; JL Marketing, LLC; and Randy Porosky, alleging
that Cross-Defendants did similar acts.  
 
On
September 14, 2021, Defendant/Cross-Complainant Daniel White filed an action in
South Dakota, Circuit Court, Seventh Judicial Circuit against Ripple and
Plaintiffs, alleging similar facts as in the California action. (Decl. Kim, ¶ 2.)
Defendant/Cross-Complainant White seeks dissolution of Ripple under South
Dakota Law. (Decl. Kim, ¶ 3.) Ripple is not registered with the Secretary of
State in California. (Decl. Kim, ¶ 7.) 
 
On
May 24, 2023, Ripple, Lyons, and Porosky filed a responsive pleading in the
South Dakota action. (Decl. Kim ¶ 4, Ex. 2.) 
 
On
July 31, 2024, Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants filed a motion to dismiss the South
Dakota action. (Decl. Burns, ¶ 3, Ex. 1.) 
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants
now move to stay the instant action pending resolution of the South Dakota
action.  
 
Legal Standard
 
Trial
courts have the inherent power to stay proceedings to promote justice and
judicial efficiency. (Freiberg v. City of Mission Viejo (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489.)
 
Discussion
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants
argue that dissolving Ripple under South Dakota
Corporations Law is a remedy available only in South Dakota, since a court in
California has no authority to dissolve a foreign corporation. Moreover,
whether Ripple is dissolved will directly affect whether Ripple and, derivatively,
its members/shareholders can maintain an action in California as a dissolved
entity. Specifically, the California Supreme Court has affirmatively found that
the survival language for a dissolved entity does not apply to a foreign
entity. In Greb v. Diamond International Corp., the Court determined
that the survival language of Corporations Code section 2010 (i.e., the right
of a dissolved corporation to, among other things, prosecute or defend actions
by or against it) did not apply to a foreign entity, and thus an action could
not be maintained against the dissolved entity. (Greb v. Diamond
International Corp. (2013) 56 Cal.4th 243, 256.)
 
In
opposition, Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants argue the instant motion is merely an attempt to delay trial in
this case, which is currently scheduled for December 9, 2024.  They argue that the South Dakota action has remained
dormant since it was filed nearly three years ago.  Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendants also argue that
even if dissolution were ordered in South Dakota, Ripple would still have a
reasonable wind-up period to maintain and defend against lawsuits under South
Dakota law, and whether a California court can dissolve a foreign entity is
unclear.  
 
In reply, Defendants/Cross-Complainants
argue that based on settlement discussions, the parties cannot coexist as
members of the same company and that the only solution is to dissolve the
company or for the members to buy each other out. 
 
The parties
are advised that communications, negotiations, or settlement discussions by and
between participants during a mediation shall remain confidential. (Evid. Code,
§§ 1115, subd. (a), 1119, subd. (c).) 
 
When an action is brought in a court of this
state involving the same parties and the same subject matter as an action
already pending in a court of another jurisdiction, a stay of the California
proceedings is not a matter of right, but within the sound discretion of the
trial court. (Farmland Irr. Co. v. Dopplmaier (1957) 48 Cal.2d 208,
215.) In exercising its discretion, the court should consider the importance of
discouraging multiple litigation designed solely to harass an adverse party,
and of avoiding unseemly conflicts with the courts of other jurisdictions. (Ibid.)
It should also consider whether the rights of the parties can best be
determined by the court of the other jurisdiction because of the nature of the
subject matter, the availability of witnesses, or the stage to which the
proceedings in the other court have already advanced. (Ibid.) 
 
Upon the
review of the various causes of action alleged in the complaint, cross-complaint,
and the action filed in South Dakota, the Court does not find that resolution
of the South Dakota case is essential to the resolution of this case, or that this
case must follow resolution of the South Dakota case. To the contrary, it
appears resolution of this case will likely decide the rights and duties of the
three partners with respect to Ripple, including how its assets can be
distributed upon a possible dissolution. (See, Compl., ¶119 (“Plaintiff
requests that the Court declare the rights as to Plaintiffs and Defendant
White, including what ownership interest White, Lyon and Porosky have in Ripple”).)
 
 
Thus, the Motion
for Stay of Proceedings is DENIED.  