 Case Number:  23NWCV01941    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  C Olga Diaz vs Nissan North America, Inc.
Case No.: 23NWCV01941
Hering Date: August 13, 2024 @ 9:30 a.m. 
 
#4
Tentative Ruling 
Plaintiff Olga Diaz’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Request for Production of Documents (Set One) is CONTINUED to
November 5, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in Department SE-C. 
Plaintiff to give notice. 
This is a lemon law action. 
Plaintiff Olga Diaz (“Plaintiff”) contends that Defendant Nissan North
America, Inc. (“Defendant”) violated the California Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act (“Song-Beverly Act”) by failing to repair Plaintiff’s 2021 Nissan
Rogue. During the warranty period, the Subject Vehicle contained or developed
numerous defects that Defendant’s authorized repair facility was unable to
conform to warranty.
On November 8, 2023, Plaintiff served her first set of
Request for Production of Documents upon Defendant. (Enav Decl., ¶ 12; Ex. 2.)
On December 27, 2023 Defendant served its responses to Plaintiff’s request, but
the response were not code compliant. (Enav Decl., ¶ 13; Ex. 3.) Plaintiff
seeks to compel further responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set
One, Nos. 1 through 65, and the documents corresponding to these requests.  
The Court signed a stipulated protective order on June 5,
2024.  
The motion is unopposed as of August 9, 2024.
The Court is not persuaded that counsel have exhausted
their meet and confer obligations pursuant to the Code. Counsel are advised
that their meet and confer efforts should go beyond merely sending letters
stating their respective positions. (See Townsend v. Superior Court (1998) 61
Cal.App.4th 1431, 1439.) “A determination of whether an attempt at informal
resolution is adequate…involves the exercise of discretion. The level of effort
at an informal resolution which satisfies the ‘reasonable and good faith
attempt’ standard depends upon the circumstances. In a larger, more complex
discovery request, a greater effort at informal resolution may be warranted. In
a simpler, or more narrowly focused case, a more modest effort may suffice. The
history of the litigation, the nature of the interaction between counsel, the
nature of the issues, the type and scope of the discovery requested, the
prospects for success and other similar factors can be relevant. Judges have
broad powers and responsibilities to determine what measures and procedures are
appropriate in varying circumstances.” (Obregon v. Sup. Ct. (1998) 67
Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)
Given the amount of discovery at stake, the Court believes
that further meet and confer efforts will resolve many of the issues before the
Court, especially now that the Court has signed the stipulated protective order.  The Court is hopeful this stipulated
protective order will allow for a freer exchange of discovery. 
Therefore, Counsel are ORDERED to make further efforts to
resolve the issues presented. If, after exhausting those efforts, court
intervention is needed, counsel may appear and argue the merits on the
continued hearing date. If counsel are unable to informally resolve their
discovery disputes, then counsel are instructed to submit a REVISED JOINT
SEPARATE STATEMENT with a detailed outline of the remaining disputed issues for
which a ruling is required. Counsel are also strongly advised to review the standing
CMC order issued in Department F for guidance on the manner to handle disputed
items. The revised joint separate statement must be FILED on or before October
25, 2024.  The joint statement should
reflect what documents, if any, have been produced by Nissan following entry of
a protective order. 
 