  Case Number:  20VECV00584    Hearing Date:   January 13, 2025    Dept:  107 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – Northwest District
 
DEPARTMENT 107
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



  Hurieh Fard, et al.
 
        
  v.
 
Bright Energy, Inc., et al.


 Case
  No.:  20VECV00584
 
Tentative
  Order Re Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
 
 



 
Tentative Ruling
 
 
 
Grant (in part) and grant
Plaintiffs leave to amend.

I.              
BACKGROUND 
 
On May 22, 2020, Plaintiffs
Hurieh Fard, Nilourfar Biglari Wansofla, Attaolah Beheshti, Akram “Rose”
Geisarian, Kevin Sharifpour, Ramin Hashemi-Rad, and Fariba Pooladi
(“Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants Bright Energy, Inc., Pedro de
Jesus Diaz, Ella Salahi, Mahsa Karimi, Pace Funding Group, LLC, Greensky of
Georgia, LLC, Greentek Construction, Inc., and Does 1 to 50 (“Defendants”),
alleging eight causes of action for: (1) intentional misrepresentation; (2)
conversion (identity theft); (3) forgery; (4) concealment (CCC section 1703,
subdivision (3)), (5) breach of contract; (6) covenant of good faith and fair
dealing; (7) negligence; and (8) identity theft (CCC section 1798.92, et seq.)
 
On February 2, 2021, Plaintiffs
filed a first amended complaint against Defendants alleging seven causes of
action for: (1) fraud as to Defendant Ella Salahi; (2) fraud as to Defendants
Bright Energy, Inc. and Pedro de Jesus Diaz; (3) identity theft; (4) forgery;
(5) breach of contract; (6) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing;
and (7) identity theft under Cal. Civ. Code section 1798.93, subdivision (A). There
is a stipulation and signed order filed 06/11/24 for Plaintiffs to file a
second amended complaint, but one was never filed, so the court bases this analysis
off of the allegations in the first amended complaint.
 
On December 13, 2024, Defendant
Greentek Construction, Inc. (“Defendant”) filed a motion for judgment on the
pleadings (the “Motion”). On December 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition.
On January 6, 2025, Defendant filed a reply.
 
II.           
PLAINTIFFS’
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Plaintiffs request this court
take judicial notice of a complaint filed by Defendant in Orange County
Superior Court on April 12, 2019, and an Order to Adopt Stipulated Settlement
from the Contractors’ State Licensing Board in the Matter of Accusations Against:
Greentek Construction Inc., Ismael Vasquez, RMO, Arthur Leonard Mayer,
RMO/CEO/PRES. (Ex. A; Ex. B.) 
 
Defendant objects to Plaintiffs’
requests. Defendant argues this court should not take judicial notice of the
complaint because “Plaintiffs cannot use a request for judicial notice to
establish the existence of a contract” and it is irrelevant. (Objection p. 3.)
Defendant also argues this court should not take judicial notice of the
Stipulated Settlement because it has no bearing on the lawsuit and states it is
not admissible in any criminal or civil proceeding. 
 
The court may take judicial
notice of “Records of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of
the United States or of any state of the United States.” (Evid. Code § 452(d).)
 
This court grants Plaintiffs’
request and takes judicial notice of the complaint filed by Defendant in Orange
County Superior Court. 
 
The court may decline to take
judicial notice of materials not “necessary, helpful, or relevant.” (Iordgghe
Entgrprises, Inc. v. Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison (1998) l8 Cal.4th 739,748,
fn. 6.) This court fails to see how the settlement agreement is relevant to
this matter. Accordingly, this court denies Plaintiffs’ request that this court
take judicial notice of the settlement agreement.
 
III.        
MEET AND
CONFER
 
“Before filing a
motion for judgment on the pleadings pursuant to this chapter, the moving party
shall meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the
pleading that is subject to the motion for judgment on the pleadings for the
purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the claims
to be raised in the motion for judgment on the pleadings.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 439(a).) “The
moving party shall file and serve with the motion for judgment on the pleadings
a declaration stating either of the following: (A) The means by which the
moving party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject to
the motion for judgment on the pleadings, and that the parties did not reach an
agreement resolving the claims raised by the motion for judgment on the
pleadings. [or] (B) That the party who filed the pleading subject to the motion
for judgment on the pleadings failed to respond to the meet and confer request
of the moving party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 439(a)(3).)
Defendant’s counsel submits a declaration stating Defendants’ counsel
attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiffs’ counsel but “Counsel for
Plaintiff has failed to respond to my office” and “Counsel for Plaintiff has
refused to meet and confer in good faith as to this Motion.” (Plumtree
Declaration ¶¶ 3-7.)
This court finds that Defendant satisfied the meet and confer
requirement.
 
IV.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A defendant may move for judgment
on the pleadings on the ground that the complaint fails to “state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 438(c)(1)(B)(ii).) “A motion for judgment on the pleadings is in
effect a general demurrer and on review is to be tested by the same rules. (IMO
Development Corp. v. Dow Corning Corp. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 451,
457.)  
 
The grounds for a motion for
judgment on the pleadings “shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading
or from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 438(d).)
 
V.            
DISCUSSION
 
A.  
Breach of
Contract
 
Defendant argues Plaintiffs have
not properly plead breach of contract because “Plaintiffs state in their
Complaint that [Defendant] entered into a written contract with each of the
Plaintiffs.” (Motion p. 5.) Defendant argues that “Plaintiffs are required to
either (a) attach a copy of the written contract to the Complaint or (b) set
out verbatim in the complaint the terms of the contract”, “Plaintiffs have
failed to attach a copy of any of the contracts referenced in the Complaint”
and “Plaintiffs did not set out verbatim the terms of the contract.” (Motion p.
5.)
 
The elements of a breach of
contract claim are: (1) existence of a contract; (2) plaintiffs’ performance or
excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendants’ breach; and (4) resulting damage. (Wall
Street Network, Ltd. v. N. Y. Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178.)
 
“In an action based on a written
contract, a plaintiff may plead the legal effect of the contract rather than
its precise language.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG
Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.)
 
In Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co. (1985) 166 Cal.App.3d 452, 459, the Court of Appeal stated that “the
complaint must indicate on its face whether the contract is written, oral, or
implied by conduct” and “[i]f the action is based on an alleged breach of a
written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the
complaint or a copy of the written instrument must be attached and incorporated
by reference.” Otworth was disagreed with by the Court of Appeal in Miles
v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394, 401, where
the Court of Appeal cited the Supreme Court’s decision in Construction
Protective Services, Inc. and the Otworth language quoted above, and
stated that “it is apparent that the Otworth court misread Wise,
and because, in any event, we are bound by our Supreme Court, we decline to
follow Otworth. Accordingly, plaintiff’s failure either to attach or set
out verbatim the terms of the contract was not fatal to his breach of contract
cause of action.” 
 
Plaintiffs allege a breach of
contract cause of action against Defendants Bright, Greentek, and Does 21-30.
(First Amended Complaint “FAC” p. 22.)
Plaintiffs allege the existence of a contract, alleging that“[e]ach of the
named Plaintiff[s] entered into a written contract with Defendants BRIGHT and
GREENTEK[.]” (FAC  ¶ 143.) These
allegations are under the breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing
cause of action, not the breach of contract cause of action. But, this court notes
that it is in that part where Plaintiffs specifically allege it was a written
contract. Further, Plaintiffs allege the written contract was “to perform
certain construction work such as installing solar panels, building a second
floor unit on Plaintiffs’ properties, remodeling the kitchens, resurfacing the
landscape with artificial grass, [and] installing efficient energy windows.”
(FAC ¶ 143.) Accordingly, although Plaintiffs have not cited the contract’s
precise language, Plaintiffs allege the “legal effect” of the contract. (See (Construction
Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co., supra, 29 Cal.4th at
pp. 198-199.)
 
Plaintiffs also allege that “Defendants
BRIGHT and GREENTEK failed to complete any of the tasks on any of the name[d]
Plaintiffs’ properties” and “did minimal work and left the project[s]
incomplete[.]’ (FAC ¶ 145.) Plaintiffs further allege that “[t]he conducts of
Defendant constitute breach of contract.” (FAC ¶ 145.) Thus, Plaintiffs allege
Defendant breached the contract.
 
Plaintiffs also allege that
“[t]he Plaintiffs paid Defendant BRIGHT for the services promised in the
agreements.” (FAC ¶ 138.) Thus, Plaintiffs allege they performed under the
contract.
 
And Plaintiffs allege that “[a]s
direct and proximate result of Defendants BRIGHT and GREENTEK[‘s] failure to
perform their duties under the contract, Plaintiffs were damaged in an amount
to be determined at the trial.” (FAC ¶ 148.) Thus, Plaintiffs allege resulting
damage.
 
Accordingly, this court finds
that Plaintiffs sufficiently allege a breach of contract cause of action and
denies the Motion on the ground the first amended complaint does not allege a
cause of action for breach of contract.
 
Because this court concludes the
first amended complaint sufficiently alleges a breach of contract cause of
action, it does not address Plaintiffs’ arguments that “the corporation was
part of the entire transaction between the Plaintiffs and Defendants Bright
Energy and Pedro De Jesus Diaz” and “Defendant is taking an inconsistent
position in a different court which is subject to judicial estoppel.” (See
Opposition pp. 2-4.)
 
B.  
Breach of
the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
Defendant also argues Plaintiffs
have not properly plead a breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair
dealing because: (1) “Plaintiffs’ breach of implied covenant cause of action
alleges the same wrongdoing and the same damages as Plaintiffs’ breach of
contract cause of action”; (2) “Plaintiff’s breach of implied covenant cause of
action relies upon Plaintiff’s breach of contract cause of action because,
without a valid contract, there can be no breach of the covenant implied in all
contracts”; (3) “there is no evidence of any contractual relationship, written
or otherwise, between Plaintiffs and [Defendant]”; and (4) “Plaintiffs’
allegations that [Defendant] breached the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing are so vague and ambiguous it renders the cause of action
unintelligible.” (Motion pp. 7-8.)
 
This court concluded that
Plaintiffs sufficiently allege a contract existed between Plaintiffs and
Defendant. Accordingly, this court does not address those issues further.
 
“[W]here breach of an actual term
is alleged, a separate implied covenant claim, based on the same breach, is
superfluous. On the other hand, where an implied covenant claim alleges a
breach of obligations beyond the agreement’s actual terms, it is invalid.” (Guz
v. Bechtel (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 327.) “Although breach of the implied
covenant often is pleaded as a separate count, a breach of the implied covenant
is necessarily a breach of contract.” (Digerati Holdings, LLC v. Young Money Entertainment,
LLC (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 873, 885.)
“Breaches of distinct contractual obligations may properly be pleaded as
separate counts.” (Id. at p. 885 fn. 6.)  
 
“A ‘breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing involves something beyond breach of the
contractual duty itself.’” (Careau & Co v. Security Pacific Business
Credit, Inc. (1998) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1394.) “If the allegations do not
go beyond the statement of a mere contract breach and, relying on the same
alleged acts, simply seek the same damages or other relief already claimed in a
companion contract cause of action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as
no additional claim is actually stated.” (Id. at p. 1395.) 
 
As to the breach of contract
cause of action, Plaintiffs allege that “the Plaintiffs, and each of them, had
various improvement contracts with Defendant BRIGHT to conduct various home
improvements, including: a. Installing solar panels; b. Installing new windows;
c. Remodeling the kitchen; and d. Adding a second floor to a house”,
“Plaintiffs paid Defendant BRIGHT for the services promised in the agreements”
but “Defendants did not complete these services or completed them improperly,
such as not obtaining the proper permits for the improvements” and “[t]hese
failures led to damages to the Plaintiffs homes and required the Plaintiffs to
expend other funds to complete the projects.” (FAC ¶¶ 137-140.)
 
As to the breach of the covenant
of good faith and fair dealing cause of action, Plaintiffs allege that “Plaintiff entered into a written contract with Defendants BRIGHT and
GREENTEK to perform certain construction work such as installing solar panels,
building a second floor unit on Plaintiffs’ properties, remodeling the
kitchens, resurfacing the landscape with artificial grass, installing efficient
energy windows”, “Defendants BRIGHT and GREENTEK failed to complete any of the
tasks at any of the names Plaintiffs’ properties”, “In each of Plaintiff’s
home, the Defendants BRIGHT and GREENTEK did minimal work and left the project
incomplete”, and “As the direct and proximate result of the Defendants’
conduct, the PLAINTIFFS were damaged by having to pay another entity to
complete the work, or in some instances, the projects are to this date
incomplete and Plaintiffs do not have the financial means to complete the work,
given the fact that many of the Plaintiffs are left with large sums of debts
causing more financial burdens for them.” (FAC ¶¶
142-146.) 
 
It appears that both causes of
action are based on the same alleged breach – Defendants’ failure to complete
the construction projects. Accordingly, this court grants the Motion on the
ground the breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing cause of
action appears to be superfluous.
 
VI.         
LEAVE TO
AMEND
 
“In the case of either a demurrer
or a motion for judgment on the pleadings, leave to amend should be granted if
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action.” (Virginia G. v. ABC Unified School Dist. (1993) 15
Cal.App.4th 1848, 1852.)
 
This court finds there is a
reasonable possibility Plaintiffs can cure the defect by amending the
complaint.
 
VII.      
CONCLUSION
 
For the foregoing reasons, this court grants the
Motion and grants Plaintiffs leave to amend. 
Plaintiffs shall amend the complaint within thirty
(30) days’ notice of this court’s order. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 438(h) [“Where a motion is granted pursuant to this
section with leave to file an amended complaint . . . then the court shall
grant 30 days to the party against whom the motion was granted to file an
amended complaint[.]”])
Dated: January 13, 2025            





  