  Case Number:  23STCV02000    Hearing Date:   October 9, 2023    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JOSEPH VIENS, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
C & C BOATS - NEWPORT LANDING,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV02000
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION
  TO TRANSFER VENUE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
October 9, 2023



 
On January 30, 2023, Plaintiff
Joseph Viens filed this action against Defendant C & C Boats, Inc. (erroneously
sued as C & C Boats - Newport Landing) for violation of the Jones Act.
On
May 15, 2023, Defendant filed a motion to transfer venue.
At
the original June 22, 2023 hearing, the Court continued the matter at Plaintiff’s
request to allow discovery and supplemental briefing on venue issues only regarding
(1) the actual location of the Plaintiff's injury; (2) where the Plaintiff performed
his work for the Defendant; (3) where do witnesses to the case reside and what would
and would not be convenient for the witnesses; (4) and where the Defendant is doing
business, has done business, and whether and where it continues to do business.
On
September 29, 2023, Plaintiff filed a notice of non-opposition.
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 395, subdivision (a), the general venue rule is
that “‘the superior court in the county where the defendants or some of them reside
at the commencement of the action is the proper court for the trial of the action.’  [Citation.]” 
(Fontaine v. Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 830, 837 (Fontaine).)  “[T]he trial court [is] limited, on the motion
for change of venue, to the cause pleaded in the complaint and it must appear clearly
from the complaint alone that plaintiff is entitled to have the cause tried in a
county other than that in which the defendant resides.  In determining this question all uncertainties
will be resolved against the complaint and the allegations will be strictly construed
against the pleader.”  (Meadows v. Emett
& Chandler (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d 496, 497-498 (Meadows).)  A corporation may be sued “in the county where
the contract is made or is to be performed, or where the obligation or liability
arises, or the breach occurs; or in the county where the principal place of business
of such corporation is situated.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 395.5.)
A
court may change the place of trial when the court designated in the complaint is
not the proper court.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
397, subd. (a).)  “‘It is the moving defendant’s
burden to demonstrate that the plaintiff’s venue selection is not proper under any
of the statutory grounds.’  [Citation.]  In opposing the motion to change venue, ‘[t]he
plaintiff may bolster his or her choice of venue with counteraffidavits consistent
with the complaint’s theory of the type of action but amplifying the allegations
relied upon for venue.’  [Citation.]”  (Fontaine, supra, 175 Cal.App.4th at p.
836.)
Plaintiff
alleges that he worked as a seaman stationed on vessels that were owned and operated
by Defendant in the Santa Barbara Channel, and his injuries “were sustained in the
course of his offshore marine work for C & C Boats in the Santa Barbara Channel.”  (Complaint ¶ 5; see Complaint ¶ 6.)  Plaintiff was also exposed to crude oil from the
Refugio Beach oil spill.  (Complaint ¶ 7.)  The Santa Barbara Channel is in Ventura County,
and Refugio Beach is in Santa Barbara County. 
(Dent Decl. ¶ 5.)
Although
the Complaint alleges that Defendant did business in Los Angeles County (Complaint
¶ 2), Defendant’s owner declares that during the relevant time, Defendant’s principal
place of business was in Huntington Beach, in Orange County (Croft Decl. ¶ 4).  Defendant has transferred its principal place
of business to Camarillo in Ventura County and is winding down its business operations.  (Croft Decl. ¶ 9.)  Defendant provided offshore service support to
platforms located in the Santa Barbara Channel in Ventura County.  (Croft Decl. ¶ 8.)  Defendant never operated out of the Newport Landing
harbor, and Plaintiff did not work on any vessels operating out of the Long Beach
harbor.  (Croft Decl. ¶¶ 5, 7.)
In
opposition, Plaintiff declares that his handwritten work assignment logs indicate
that on January 3 and 4, 2002, he worked at Pier D of the Long Beach Harbor before
and after navigating to the offshore platforms Elly, Ellen, and Eureka off of the
coast of Los Angeles County.  (Viens Decl.
¶ 6.)  He also worked at the Ventura County
and Los Angeles County line on July 1, 2002. 
(Viens Decl. ¶ 6.)  Therefore, Plaintiff
contends that Los Angeles County is a proper venue because liability arose there.  (See Opposition at p. 6.)
However,
the Complaint does not make it clear that Los Angeles County is the correct venue.  Plaintiff alleges that Defendant “was doing business
in the County of Los Angeles, State of California” (Complaint ¶ 2), which is refuted
by Defendant’s declaration (Croft Decl. ¶¶ 4-5, 7).  Plaintiff also relies on his allegations that
his injuries arose during his work “upon navigable waters within the State of California.”  (Opposition at pp. 6-7; Complaint ¶¶ 18, 25.)  This does not specify Los Angeles County within
the State of California.  Instead, Plaintiff
alleges that he was exposed to toxins “while stationed on vessels owned and operated
by Defendant . . . in the Santa Barbara Channel.”  (Complaint ¶ 6.)  It is not clear from the Complaint that Los Angeles
County is a proper venue, and “all uncertainties will be resolved against the complaint
and the allegations will be strictly construed against the pleader.”  (Meadows, supra, 99 Cal.App.2d at pp. 497-498.)
The
Court therefore finds that Ventura County—the location of Defendant’s current principal
place of business and where the injury is alleged to have occurred—is the proper
venue for this action.
Accordingly,
the motion to transfer venue is GRANTED. 
This matter is ordered transferred to Ventura County with Plaintiff to pay
any transfer fees.  Defendant’s request for
sanctions is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 9th day of October 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 