 Case Number:  24STCV02487    Hearing Date:   October 4, 2024    Dept:  74 SEAN JENNINGS, et al. vs RONNIE
HONGO et al.
 
Defendants Ronnie Hongo and Raymond
Hongo’s Motion to Strike (not Anti-SLAPP).
 
BACKGROUND 
            This
is a Landlord-Tenant case. On January 31, 2024, Plaintiffs Sean Jennings and
Candace Hirahara (Plaintiffs) filed suit against Ronnie and Raymond Hongo
(Defendants). Plaintiffs allege five causes of action for breach of contract,
breach of warranty of habitability, breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment,
negligence, and tenant harassment. 
            Plaintiffs
allege beginning on February 1, 2009, they entered into a month-to-month lease
to rent the real property located at 2921 6th Avenue, Los Angeles California
90018 (subject property). Defendants owned, maintained, and managed the subject
property. Defendants failed to maintain the property in a habitable condition. Uninhabitable
conditions included black mold, backup of the sewer lines, rat and rodent
infestation, lack of sufficient electrical outlets, a leaky roof, and termites.
Plaintiffs requested Defendants repair the issues, but they failed to do so timely.

            Defendants
move to strike Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages for their claims for breach
of the warranty of habitability (Compl., ¶27), breach of the covenant of quiet
enjoyment (Compl., ¶34), and prayer for punitive damages. Plaintiffs did not
file an opposition.
LEGAL STANDARD
¿¿            The
court may strike out any “irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., §437) To succeed on a motion to strike punitive damages
allegations, it must be said as a matter of law that the alleged behavior was
not so vile, base, or contemptible that it would not be looked down upon and
despised by ordinary decent people. (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37
Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228-1229.) The mere allegation an intentional tort was
committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages. (Grieves
v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157 Cal. App. 3d 159, 166.) Punitive damages are available in
non-contract actions where a defendant is guilty of malice, fraud, or
oppression. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c) [defining malice, fraud, and
oppression].) 
DISCUSSION  
            Defendant
argues that the claim for punitive damages is insufficiently alleged and/or not
properly permitted on the cause of action. 
In
Stoiber v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 920 (Stoiber),
the court held that a claim for punitive damages was adequately alleged when
the complaint alleged that “defendant had actual knowledge of the defective
conditions in the premises including leaking swage, deteriorated flooring,
falling ceiling, leaking roof, broken windows and other unsafe and dangerous
conditions” and that defendant “acted with full knowledge of the consequences
thereof and the damage being caused to plaintiff, and their conduct was
willful, oppressive and malicious.” 
Plaintiffs have alleged similar facts here, and thus have adequately
stated a claim for punitive damages. 
(See also Smith v. David (1981) 120 Cal.App.3d 101, n.3 [punitive
damages available for intentional tortious breach of the warranty of
habitability].) However, as Defendants correctly point out, punitive damages
are not available for the claim for breach of the implied covenant of quiet
enjoyment. (See Ginsberg v. Gamson (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 873, 896,
897.) Accordingly, the court strikes paragraph thirty-four requesting punitive
damages for the breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment. 
CONCLUSION 
The
court grants Defendants’ motion to strike in part. The Motion to Strike
paragraph 34 is granted. In all other respects, the motion is denied.
Defendants
shall give notice.