 Case Number:  23STCV05437    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
(CHARLES B. CHRYSTAL)
            Defendant
Charles B. Chrystal Company filed a motion for summary judgment, and in the
alternative for adjudication judication of Plaintiffs Sueko Brockett and Steve
Brockette’s claims that Sueko Brockett was exposed to asbestos in Defendant’s
talc.
A.        Objections
            1.         Defendant’s Objections
            Defendant
filed a 98-page document entitled “Evidentiary Objections to Plaintiffs’ Separate
Statement of Undisputed Material Facts.” 
The first 35 pages of the document copy Defendant’s Separate Statement
and Plaintiffs’ Response to Defendant’s Separate Statement.  Starting on page 35, Defendant asserts
objections but, they are objections to the stated facts rather than objections
to the evidence.  This document does not
comply with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1354.  In any event, the court did not rely on the objected-to
evidence.
            2.
        Plaintiffs’ Objections
            Plaintiffs
object to evidence Defendant filed with their reply papers.  The court did not rely on this evidence.
B.        Motion
for Summary Judgment
A defendant seeking summary judgment
must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the plaintiff’s case, or . .
. demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that
requires the process of trial.”  (Guz
v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a plaintiff cannot establish an
element of a cause of action, a defendant must make the initial showing “that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed
evidence.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.) 
“The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively
negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action.  The defendant may also present evidence that
the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence –
as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the
effect that he has discovered nothing.” 
(Id. at p. 855.)  A
plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the plaintiff has no knowledge of any
exposure to the defendant’s products may be sufficient to shift the burden to
the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of triable issues of fact.  (McGonnell v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc.
(2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.) 
The plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he did not recall ever working
with a product manufactured by the defendant may not be sufficient to shift the
burden if the plaintiff is able to prove his case by another means.  (Weber v. John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “‘If plaintiffs
respond to comprehensive interrogatories seeking all known facts with
boilerplate answers that restate their allegations, or simply provide laundry
lists of people and/or documents, the burden of production will almost
certainly be shifted to them once defendants move for summary judgment and
properly present plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id. at p. 1440.) 
Defendant argues Plaintiffs have no
evidence that Defendant was the exclusive or primary supplier of talc for any
products to which Sueko Brockett was exposed. 
(Motion at pp. 4-5, 7.)  Defendant
served interrogatories asking for all facts, documents and witnesses with
knowledge supporting Plaintiffs’ contention that Sueko Brockett was exposed to
asbestos in Defendant’s products.  (Mayfield
Decl., Ex. 4 at pp. 5, 7-8, 9.) 
Plaintiffs responded Sueko Brockett was exposed to Defendant’s talc in
Avon and Gold Bond products; Plaintiffs did not identify specific documents or
specific witnesses other than Plaintiffs. 
(Id. at pp. 6, 9, 10.)  At
her deposition, Sueko Brockett testified she used Avon Birds of Paradise, Avon
Haiku, Avon Imari, Avon Skin So Soft, Mary Kay face powder, blush and eye shadow,
Estee Lauder Youth-Dew, White Shoulders, Chanel, Clinique, L’Oreal, Max Factor,
Lancôme and Johnson & Johnson baby powder, Shiseido, and Clinique.  (Mayfield Decl., Ex. 7 at pp. 191, 208, 209-210.)
 She was also exposed to the Gold Bond
and Old Spice powders her husband used. 
(Id. at p. 219.)  These
responses do not contain any facts showing Defendant supplied talc for those
products.  These discovery responses are
factually devoid, and thus Defendant shifted the burden.
Defendant admits it sold talc for
use in Gold Bond but does not present evidence that there were other
suppliers.  (Motion at p. 5.)  Defendant states that Plaintiffs have no evidence
that there were not other suppliers, citing to Plaintiff’s discovery
responses.  (Ibid.)  But those responses did not ask about other
suppliers.  Therefore, the responses are
not factually devoid on that point.
In their opposition, Plaintiffs
clarify they contend that Defendant supplied talc for Avon and Estee Lauder
powder and make-up and Gold Bond powder. 
(Opposition at p. 1.)  Plaintiffs
also show disputed facts about the source of talc for these products as
discussed below.
Defendant contends it only supplied Osmanthus
talc to Avon from 1993 to 1997; Plaintiffs contend the sales occurred until
1999.  (Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”)
12; Plaintiffs’ Response to UMF 12.)  Defendant
contends its Osmanthus talc was not used in Avon’s Imari or Bird of Paradise
powders.  (UMF 14.)  However, the evidence Defendant cites for
this fact does not support the fact. 
Defendant cites formula sheets in Exhibit 9.  (UMF 14.) 
Those formula sheets are dated from 1969 to 1992, before Defendant
supplied Osmanthus talc to Avon, or they concern products other than Imari and
Bird of Paradise.  (Mayfield Decl., Ex.
9.)  Defendant also cites Exhibit 12 to
support the fact.  (UMF 14.)  Exhibit 12 contains formula sheets from
1981-1991, before Defendant supplied Osmanthus talc to Avon, and so they are
not relevant.  (Mayfield Decl., Ex.
9.)  Exhibits 9 and 12 do not support the
assertion that during the period when Defendant was supplying Osmanthus talc to
Avon, Imari and Bird of Paradise powders did not use that talc.  Plaintiffs submit evidence that in fact Defendant’s
Osmanthus talc (code 0762) was an ingredient in Avon’s Imari.  (Kagan Decl., Ex. 18.)  
Defendant also contends there is no
evidence that Defendant’s Osmanthus talc was used in Haiku body powder.  (Motion at p. 4.)  However, Plaintiffs submit a formula sheet
indicating Defendant’s Osmanthus talc (code 0762) was an ingredient in Avon’s
Haiku.  (Kagan Decl., Ex. 20.)  
In addition, Defendant contends Avon
was one of multiple suppliers of the talc for Skin So Soft, citing Exhibit
14.  (UMF 15.)  Most of Exhibit 14 consists of formula sheets
from before the date Defendant supplied talc to Avon, and therefore they are
irrelevant.  (Mayfield Decl., Ex.
14.)  Four sheets are from
1993-1994.  (Id. at pp. 1-4.)  Three of the four formula sheets state
Defendant’s Osmanthus talc (code 0762) was an ingredient in Skin So Soft.  (Id. at pp. 1, 3, 4.)  One formula sheet lists a talc with code
0752.  (Id. at p. 2.)  Defendant does not identify the source of 0752
talc or show that it was not from Defendant. 
In opposition, Plaintiffs submit evidence that the formula sheets called
for Defendant’s Osmanthus talc in Skin So Soft (Kagan Decl., Ex. 16)  This creates a disputed issue about whether
talc other than from Defendant was used in the product.
In sum, Plaintiffs showed the existence
of disputed issues concerning the sources of talc for Avon products.  The motion for summary judgment is denied.
C.        Summary
Adjudication of Third Cause of Action 
Defendant moves for summary adjudication of the third cause
of action for fraud.  The third cause of
action alleges three different claims for (1) fraudulent misrepresentations;
(2) fraudulent concealment; and (3) conspiracy to commit fraud.
1.         Fraudulent
Misrepresentation
The claim for fraudulent misrepresentation alleges with no
specificity and very vaguely that Defendant “represented certain facts that
were not true” and that these unspecified representations were made to
Plaintiffs and unspecified other people. 
(Complaint, ¶ 31.)  These
allegations are utterly deficient.  
Defendant served interrogatories asking for all facts and documents
supporting the fraud cause of action.  (Mayfield
Decl., Ex. 2 at p. 4.)  Plaintiffs
responded that Sueko Brockett has mesothelioma and used asbestos-containing
products from Defendant, including talc used in Avon and Gold Bond products.  The responses did not identify any
misrepresentation or specific documents supporting the claim for fraudulent
misrepresentation.  (Mayfield Decl., Ex.
4 at pp. 5-7, 12.)  The discovery responses
are factually-devoid as to the claim for fraudulent misrepresentation.  Defendant shifted the burden. 
In opposition, Plaintiffs
do not mention the third cause of action or their fraudulent misrepresentation cause
of action.  Plaintiffs did not submit any
evidence of any misrepresentation by Defendant. 
Therefore they failed to show disputed issues.  The motion is granted as to the claim for
fraudulent misrepresentation.
2.         Concealment
The concealment claim alleges
in very conclusory fashion that Defendant made misleading affirmative
statements, partial representations, and factual misrepresentations that
Defendant’s products were safe.  The
complaint does not allege who made these statements, when they were made, or
even that Plaintiffs heard and relied on the statements.  (Complaint, ¶ 32.)  Thus, the pleadings
are completely deficient.  As noted
above, Plaintiffs’ discovery responses are devoid of any facts supporting these
allegations of misleading affirmative statements, partial representations, and
factual misrepresentations.  In
opposition, Plaintiffs do not submit any evidence of such statements,
representations, and misrepresentations. 
Thus, Plaintiff did not show any disputed issues of fact.
The concealment claim further alleges Defendant had a
relationship or transactions with Plaintiffs because Plaintiffs purchased Defendant’s
products directly from Defendant, Defendant’s suppliers, or another entity.  (Complaint, ¶ 32.)  However, there is absolutely no evidence in
Plaintiffs’ discovery responses or opposition that Plaintiffs purchased Defendant’s
talc from anyone or that Plaintiffs had any relationship with Defendant.  Likewise, the complaint alleges Defendant advertised
that its product was safe, and was “the beacon of ‘freshness’ and ‘comfort’.”  (Ibid.)  There is no evidence in Plaintiffs’ discovery
responses or opposition that Defendant made any such statements.  Indeed, Plaintiffs’ opposition says nothing about
its concealment cause of action.
In sum, as described
above, Plaintiffs’ discovery responses were completely devoid of any facts
supporting the concealment claim, thus shifting the burden.  In their opposition, Plaintiffs do not
mention the third cause of action and do not present any evidence that Defendant
concealed anything.  Therefore,
Plaintiffs failed to show a disputed issue. 
The motion for summary adjudication is granted on the concealment cause
of action.
3.         Conspiracy
The third cause of action
alleges all fifty-five defendants conspired together to commit fraud and make
false statements to Plaintiffs.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 33, 34.)  The complaint contains no details about how
this vast conspiracy occurred, and the allegations are nothing more than boilerplate.  Plaintiffs’ opposition papers are similarly entirely
free of any specifics about how this conspiracy among all fifty-five defendants
to defraud Plaintiffs occurred.  This cause
of action is completely baseless.
            “Conspiracy is not
a cause of action, but a legal doctrine that imposes liability on persons who,
although not actually committing a tort themselves, share with the immediate
tortfeasors a common plan or design in its perpetration.”  (Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi
Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 510-511.) 
“Standing alone, a conspiracy does no harm and engenders no tort
liability.  It must be activated by the
commission of an actual tort.”  (Id.
at p. 511.)  Because summary adjudication
is granted on the third cause of action, Defendant cannot be liable for
conspiring with all of the other defendants to commit fraud.
            The motion is granted as to the third
cause of action.
D.        Summary
Adjudication of Punitive Damages
Defendants move for
summary adjudication of the request for punitive damages.
When the motion targets a
request for punitive damages, a higher standard of proof is at play.  “Although the clear and convincing
evidentiary standard is a stringent one, ‘it does not impose on a plaintiff the
obligation to “prove” a case for punitive damages at summary judgment [or
summary adjudication.’  [Citations.]  Even so, ‘where the plaintiff’s ultimate
burden of proof will be by clear and convincing evidence, the higher standard
of proof must be taken into account in ruling on a motion for summary judgment
or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to prevail on a claim for
punitive damages, it will be necessary that the evidence presented meet the
higher evidentiary standard.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Butte Fire Cases
(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158-1159.) 
“Summary judgment or summary adjudication ‘ “ ‘on the issue of punitive
damages is proper’ only ‘when no reasonable jury could find the plaintiff’s
evidence to be clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or oppression.’ ”
’.  [Citation.]”  (Id. at p. 1159.)
“ ‘[I]ntentionally marketing a defective product
knowing that it might cause injury and death is ‘highly reprehensible.’  [Citation.]” 
(Bankhead v. ArvinMeritor, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 68,
85.)  Punitive damages may be available
when a defendant knows the dangers of asbestos, took action to protect its own
employees from the hazard, knew that its products were likely to pose a danger
to users, and did not warn them.  (Pfeifer
v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1300.)  Such evidence “was sufficient to show malice,
that is, despicable conduct coupled with conscious disregard for the safety of
others.”  (Id. at pp.
1300-1301.)  On the other hand, a
defendant’s knowledge of trace amounts of asbestos in talc does not necessarily
mean that the defendant knew the asbestos in talc “would cause a high
probability of injury.”  (McNeal v.
Whittaker, Clark & Daniels, Inc. (2022) 80 Cal.App.5th 853, 873.)  
            Defendant
cites Plaintiffs’ responses to interrogatories asking for all facts and documents
supporting the request for punitive damages. 
(Motion at pp. 14-15; Mayfield Decl., Ex. 2 at p. 9.)  Plaintiffs responded with generic allegations
that Defendant knew about the dangers of asbestos and failed to warn; Plaintiffs
did not identify any specific documents. 
(Mayfield Decl., Ex. 4 at pp. 12-15.) 
This response is factually devoid, and Defendant shifted the burden.
            In their
opposition, Plaintiffs argue Defendant knew that its talc products could
contain asbestos as early as the 1970s. 
(Opposition at p. 17.)  But that is not evidence
that Defendant
knew the talc contained asbestos that, when incorporated into the products at
issue, would cause a high probability of injury to consumers, and that
Defendant made a corporate decision not to warn customers.  
Plaintiffs also cite
various evidence about Defendant’s conduct and knowledge in 2015-2023.  (Opposition at pp. 17-18.)  However, the relevant time periods for this
case are 1992 to 1999 when Plaintiffs contend Defendant was selling talc to Avon
(Plaintiffs’
Response to UMF 12), 1986 to 1991 when Plaintiffs contend Defendant was selling
talc to Gold Bond (Plaintiffs’ Response to UMF 16), and 1985 to 1994 when
Plaintiffs contend Defendant was selling talc to Estee Lauder.  (Plaintiff’s Response to UMF 3).  Evidence of Defendant’s knowledge post-2000s does
not establish the scope of Defendant’s knowledge years and decades earlier.  
Plaintiffs did not show disputed issues of fact
concerning its request for punitive damages.  Therefore, the motion is granted.
            The
motion for summary judgment is DENIED.  The
motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED as to the third cause of action and punitive
damages.
            The
moving party is to give notice.