  Case Number:  19STCV26549    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS IN LIMINE
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 1
This motion seeks to
preclude mention of any products eliminated by summary judgment orders.  This motion is too vague.  It does not identify any particular orders or
products.  Also, one defendant can
successfully move for summary judgment of the claims against it for a
particular product, and a different defendant can remain in the case regarding
claims against that second defendant for the same product.  Thus, the grant of summary judgment as to one
defendant does not necessarily mean that a particular product is out of the
case.  The motion is denied.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 2
Plaintiffs move to
exclude evidence that other defendants were sued but are not at trial and the contents
of the complaint because the complaint is not a judicial admission.
Pursuant to the July 8,
2022 CMO, a motion to modify the caption to refer only to defendants remaining
in the case is deemed made and granted but not to affect any allocation of
fault under Proposition 51.  To the extent
the motion seeks to exclude any evidence of other defendants not at trial, the
motion is denied as too vague.  For
example, a deposition testimony of a witness of another defendant may be
admissible, or evidence may be relevant for Proposition 51 purposes.
“ ‘The admission of fact
in a pleading is a “judicial admission.” ’ 
[Citation.]  A judicial admission
in a pleading is not merely evidence of a fact; it is a conclusive concession
of the truth of the matter. 
[Citation.]  ‘Well pleaded allegations
in the complaint are binding on the plaintiff at trial.’  [Citation.] 
‘The trial court may not ignore a judicial admission in a pleading , but
must conclusively deem it true as against the pleader.’  [Citation.]” 
(Bucur v. Ahmad (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 175, 187.)  Based on this caselaw, the complaint may
contain judicial admissions of fact.  The
court therefore cannot conclude at this time that the entire complaint and its
exhibits are inadmissible.
            The
motion is granted in part and denied in part without prejudice to objections at
trial.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 3
Plaintiffs move to
exclude evidence of complaints filed in bankruptcy cases and an order from the
Garlock bankruptcy case.  Evidence and
arguments about what happened in bankruptcy cases have little probative value, will
be prejudicial and will consume an undue amount of trial time to explain the
context and proceedings of those cases.  
            The
motion is granted.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 4
            Plaintiffs
move to exclude arguments that chrysotile does not cause mesothelioma as baseless.  Plaintiffs cite no specific evidence to
support this argument and do not identify any specific evidence to
exclude.  The motion is denied without
prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 1-29
            No
motions were filed.
Defendants’ MIL No. 30
            Defendants
Nissan North America, Inc. and Nissan Motor Co., Ltd seek to exclude a December
2020 publication by the EPA entitled “Risk Evaluation for Asbestos Part I:
Chrysotile Asbestos” as hearsay, irrelevant and prejudicial.  An expert may rely on hearsay and tell the
jury in general terms that he or she did so. 
If an expert testifying in this case establishes that this publication
is the type of background information relied upon by experts in the field, the
evidence may be relevant and admissible even if hearsay.  Defendants can cross-examine any expert who
relies on this publication about the trustworthiness of the document.  The court cannot determine at this point that
the publication is irrelevant or prejudicial.
The motion is denied
without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL Nos. 1-34
            No
motions were filed.
Defendants’ MIL No. 35
Defendants Nissan North
America, Inc. and Nissan Motor Co., Ltd move to exclude arguments that there is
no safe level of asbestos and every exposure contributes to a cumulative dose
as unsupported by science and contrary to the law.  This motion is too vague as Defendants does
not identify any specific expert testimony to be excluded.    
In addition, the motion
would exclude arguments about the standard for proving causation and what
“substantial factor” means.  Under the
July 8, 2022 CMO, motions to exclude expert opinion about the term “substantial
factor” are deemed made and denied without prejudice to objections at
trial.  Defendants did not show good
cause to depart from this order.
Defendants also argue
OSHA and EPA reports are hearsay.  This
motion is too vague as Defendants did not identify any specific report to be
excluded.  If Plaintiffs ask to admit the
reports for the truth of the matter asserted in them, Defendants can object at
that time.  However, an expert may rely
on the reports even if they are hearsay.
The motion is denied
without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 36
            Defendants
Nissan North America, Inc. and Nissan Motor Co., Ltd seek to preclude
references to them as manufacturers because they are not manufacturers.  Plaintiffs contend that in fact Defendants
are manufacturers.  This is a dispute that
cannot be decided on a motion in limine. 
The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.  
Defendants’ MIL No. 37
Defendants Nissan North
America, Inc. and Nissan Motor Co., Ltd seek to preclude references to Covid and
other diseases as comparable to mesothelioma. 
This motion is too vague.  It does
not seek to exclude any particular document or expert testimony.  
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 38
            Defendants
Nissan North America, Inc. and Nissan Motor Co., Ltd seek an order requiring
Plaintiffs to file all bankruptcy trust claims before the trial.  This is not a proper motion in limine.  Further, Defendants cite no law that the
court can order Plaintiffs to file claims.
            The
motion is denied.
O’Reilly Auto Enterprises’ MIL
Defendant O’Reilly Auto
Enterprises, LLC seeks to preclude a 1986 EPA document entitled “Guidance for
Preventing Asbestos Disease Among Auto Mechanics” as irrelevant, hearsay,
unscientific, and unduly prejudicial.  If
Defendant contends it did not know about the hazards of asbestos by 1986, the
document could be relevant to Defendant’s notice of the dangers of asbestos, a
non-hearsay use.  Also, the contents of
the document may be admissible at trial via an expert if the expert establishes
it is general background information of the type relied upon by experts in the
field.  That the document was based on
unscientific sources can be the subject of cross-examination and goes to the
weight to be given the document and whether an expert can establish it is the type
of information relied upon by experts.
Defendant also seeks to exclude
the Don’t Blow It video and any evidence referring to the video as hearsay,
unscientific, and prejudicial.  The video
may be admissible at trial via an expert if the expert establishes that it is
general background information of the type relied upon by experts in the
field.  The claim that the video is
unscientific can be the subject of cross-examination and goes to the weight to
be given the video.  
Defendant argues the
video’s references to an article and wives and children lack foundation.  That section of the video is irrelevant
because there is no claim in this case about injury to wives and children.  Similarly, smoking does not seem to be an
issue in this case.  If Plaintiffs
establish that the video is admissible, the portion of the video about the
magazine article, smoking, and wives and children are to be redacted.
            The
motion is granted in part and denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
            The
moving party is to give notice.
 
 