 Case Number:  22STCV03991    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  15 Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 1
No motion was filed.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 2
            Plaintiffs
move to exclude evidence and argument about workplace asbestos limits as
irrelevant to exposure from home repairs. 
This motion is too vague.  It does
not identify any specific exhibit or testimony to be excluded.  It is denied without prejudice to objections
at trial.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 3
Plaintiffs seek to
exclude evidence of a procedure called talc pleurodesis as not relevant to
causation and irrelevant, prejudicial, and confusing to the jury.  If Robert Gonzalez had this procedure, the
motion is denied without prejudice to an objection at trial.  If he did not have this procedure, the motion
is granted as the evidence would require an undue amount of trial time and
confusing medical evidence explaining the purposes of the procedure and when
and how it is used.  
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 4
Plaintiffs move to
exclude evidence of epidemiological studies of mines in Austri, France, and
Norway and other mines not at issue in this case as irrelevant, prejudicial,
and time-consuming.  This motion is too
vague.  Further, an expert may be able to
establish that the unspecified studies are the type of material experts in the
field rely on.  The motion is denied
without prejudice to objections at trial.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 5
            No
motion was filed.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 6
Plaintiffs seek to
exclude a 2019 letter written by Richard Attanoos as irrelevant and
hearsay.  Attanoos wrote the letter in
response to a letter criticizing a paper he had written.  Defendant states it does not oppose the
motion.  Therefore the parties should be
able to reach a stipulation.  The motion
is off calendar.
Plaintiffs MIL No. 7
            Plaintiffs
move to exclude opinions from non-testifying experts.  This motion is too vague.  It does not identify any particular opinion,
expert, or document to exclude.  The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 8
Plaintiffs move to
exclude evidence that other defendants were sued but are not at trial, the
complaint, and the exhibits attached to the complaint as irrelevant and
prejudicial, and because the complaint is not a judicial admission.
Pursuant to the July 8,
2022 CMO, a motion to modify the caption to refer only to defendants remaining
in the case is deemed made and granted but not to affect any allocation of
fault under Proposition 51.  To the extent
the motion seeks to exclude any evidence of other defendants not at trial, the
motion is denied as too vague.  For
example, a deposition testimony of a witness of another defendant may be
admissible, or evidence may be relevant for Proposition 51 purposes.
“ ‘The admission of fact
in a pleading is a “judicial admission.” ’ 
[Citation.]  A judicial admission
in a pleading is not merely evidence of a fact; it is a conclusive concession
of the truth of the matter. 
[Citation.]  ‘Well pleaded
allegations in the complaint are binding on the plaintiff at trial.’  [Citation.] 
‘The trial court may not ignore a judicial admission in a pleading , but
must conclusively deem it true as against the pleader.’  [Citation.]” 
(Bucur v. Ahmad (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 175, 187.)  Based on this caselaw, the complaint may
contain judicial admissions of fact.  The
court therefore cannot conclude at this time that the entire complaint and its
exhibits are inadmissible.
            The
motion is granted in part and denied in part without prejudice to objections at
trial.
Plaintiffs’ MIL No. 9
Plaintiffs move to
exclude evidence of complaints filed in bankruptcy cases and an order from the
Garlock bankruptcy case.  Evidence and
arguments about what happened in bankruptcy cases have little probative value, will
be prejudicial and will consume an undue amount of trial time to explain the
context and proceedings of those cases.  
            The
motion is granted.
Defendants MIL Nos. 1-6
No motions were filed.
Defendants’ MIL No. 7
Defendant Vanderbilt
Minerals moves to exclude evidence of any claims related to mine and mill
employees, as well as workers’ compensation actions.  If notice of the dangers of asbestos or
asbestos in the products at issue is contested, some evidence of these claims
may be relevant and for a non-hearsay purpose. 
However, the details of the claims would be unduly prejudicial,
time-consuming, and confusing to the jury. 
It is for the trial judge to determine how much is too much.  To the extent a party seeks to introduce the
amounts of any settlement, judgment, verdict, or award in another litigation,
the motion is deemed granted and made pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO.
            The
motion is granted in part and denied in part subject to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 8
Defendant Vanderbilt
Minerals moves to exclude all evidence that it communicated with OSHA about a
proper definition of asbestos.  If
Defendant contends it did not know about the presence or hazards of asbestos in
talc at the times of the communications, Defendant’s communications may be
relevant to its notice or knowledge about asbestos in talc.  Defendant’s argument that the evidence is
speculative is addressed in the July 8, 2022 CMO, which seems such a motion
made and denied.  Defendant did not show
good cause to depart from the CMO.  The
objection that documents are hearsay depends on the use of the documents.  If they are used for non-hearsay purposes,
such as notice, this objection will lack merit. 
But that cannot be determined at this time.  
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objection at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 9
Vanderbilt Minerals moves
to exclude the Hull Paper as “nothing more than junk science” because its
authors serve as expert witness for plaintiffs, it was not subject to peer
review, and it did not follow the proper methodology.  If an expert establishes that the Hull Paper
is the type of material that experts in the field rely upon, evidence about the
Hull Paper may be admissible.  Defendant
can then cross-examine the expert about the perceived deficiencies in the study
and argue to the jury that it should be given little or no weight.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objection at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 10
            Defendant
Vanderbilt Minerals seeks to exclude a November 11, 1983 letter from McCrone
Research Associated written by Gene Prentice and Gary Nichols to R.W. Owens
about testing a talc sample from Defendant as contrary to scientific fact,
lacking authentication, hearsay, and prejudicial.  Defendant says it cannot cross-examine the
expert who wrote the letter.
            The
court cannot determine before trial if a party will be able to authenticate a
trial exhibit.  If the offering party
fails to authenticate an exhibit, the objecting party should object at that
time.  The court cannot determine before
trial how the offering party will seek to use the letter.  If it is offered for a non-hearsay purpose (such
as notice) or if it is admissible as a business record or under some other
exception, this objection may have no merit. 
That cannot be determined now.  If
the letter is otherwise admissible, Vanderbilt can have its expert explain why
the letter is contrary to scientific fact, and Vanderbilt can cross-examine any
expert who relies on the letter.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 11
Vanderbilt Minerals seeks
to preclude March 24, 1982 and March 31, 1982 OSHRC documents about asbestos in
R.T. Vanderbilt Company’s talc as lacking foundation, hearsay, and improper
expert testimony.  If Plaintiffs are able
to authenticate the documents at trial, they may be admissible for a
non-hearsay purpose, such as notice or knowledge about asbestos in talc.  Or an expert may be able to establish that it
is the type of material that experts in the field rely upon.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objection at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 12
Vanderbilt Minerals seeks
to exclude all evidence of any documents from Johns-Manville Corporation about
Vanderbilt Minerals.  This motion is too
vague and broad in referring to all such documents.  
Defendant then specifies three
(or maybe four; one is repeated twice) documents to exclude, arguing they are
hearsay and Plaintiffs cannot establish that the documents are business
records.  If Plaintiffs seek to use the
documents at trial for the truth of the matter asserted (rather than for some
non-hearsay purpose), and if they fail to show they are business records,
Defendant can object at that time.
The motion is denied
without prejudice to objections at trial.
Defendants’ MIL No. 13
Vanderbilt Minerals seeks
to exclude statements that its products kill people and poison the world as
argumentative and prejudicial.  This
motion is too vague.  If at trial someone
makes an improper statement, Defendant should object at that time.
            The
motion is denied without prejudice to objection at trial.
Motion to Bifurcate
            Vanderbilt
Minerals moves to bifurcate punitive damages. 
The parties should have been able to agree to this.  The motion is granted.
The moving party is to
give notice.