 Case Number:  23STCV04276    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2023    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTIONS IN LIMINE, MOTION TO  BIFURCATE Defendants’ MIL No. 1             Defendant  Union Carbide moves to exclude evidence of its relationship with Dow  Chemical.  This motion is too vague.  If at trial Plaintiffs ask questions about  Dow Chemical that are irrelevant, Defendant can object at that time.  The motion is denied without prejudice to  objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 1             Defendant  Ferguson Enterprises moves to exclude certain questions during voir dire and  opening statement.  This defendant is no  longer in the case.  Further, the trial  court will have its own rules about conducting voir dire.  And, mentioning the amount of damages that  the evidence will prove is not improper.             The  motion is denied. Defendants’ MIL No. 1 Defendant J-M  Manufacturing Company, Inc. moves to exclude references to asbestos-cement pipe  being “friable” or “inherently dangerous” as contrary to the evidence and  prejudicial.  Defendant argues that in  fact the product is legal and safe.  This  is in effect a motion for summary judgment.   The court cannot resolve a disputed factual issue on a motion for  summary judgment.  The motion is denied  without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 2 Union Carbide moves to  exclude evidence of working conditions at its facilities as irrelevant and  unduly prejudicial.  This motion is too  vague.  If “working conditions” refers to  something like wage and hour violations, that would be irrelevant.  However, if it refers to something like  workers being exposed to asbestos, the evidence could be relevant.  For example, the evidence of asbestos  exposure at the facilities could be relevant to knowledge or notice.             The  motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 2 Defendant Ferguson  Enterprises, LLC seeks to exclude J-M Manufacturing documents as to Ferguson  because they are vague and ambiguous, incomplete, untrustworthy, and  hearsay.  The motion does not identify  specific documents to exclude.  This  defendant is no longer part of the case.   This motion is too vague.  The  motion is denied. Defendants’ MIL No. 2 J-M Manufacturing moves  to exclude arguments that there is no safe level of asbestos, and every  exposure contributes to a cumulative dose as unsupported by science and  contrary to the law.  This motion is too  vague as Defendant does not identify any specific expert testimony to be  excluded.     In addition, the motion  would exclude arguments about the standard for proving causation and what  “substantial factor” means.  Under the  July 8, 2022 CMO, motions to exclude expert opinion about the term “substantial  factor” are deemed made and denied without prejudice to objections at  trial.  Defendant did not show good cause  to depart from this order. Defendant also argues  that Plaintiffs have two pathologists and two experts about fiber release, and  duplicative testimony should not be allowed.   If at trial Plaintiffs ask duplicative questions or seek to call multiple  witnesses to give duplicative testimony, Defendant should object then. The motion is denied  without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 3 Defendant Ferguson  Enterprises, LLC seeks to exclude evidence and argument about a post-sale  failure to warn.  This defendant is no  longer part of the case.  In any event,  pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO, a motion to exclude evidence of a post-sale  duty to warn and failure to conduct a recall or post-sale warning campaign is  deemed made and denied so long as there is an operative negligence cause of  action.  Defendant did not show good  cause to depart from this order.             The  motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 3; Motion to Bifurcate             Defendants  moves to bifurcate punitive damages.  The  parties should have been able to stipulate to this.  The motion is granted. Defendants’ MIL No. 4 J-M Manufacturing moves  to exclude references to a 1989 proposed EPA ban that never went into effect  because it was invalidated by the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals as not  supported by sufficient evidence.  If  Defendants contend they did not know about the hazards of asbestos by 1989, this  evidence may go to notice or knowledge.   Defendants can cross-examine the witness about the fact that the  proposed ban was never effective and was invalidated by the court for lack of  evidence.  That cross-examination can be  done efficiently, which just a few questions and does not need to consume an  undue amount of time. The motion is denied  without prejudice to contemporaneous objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 3 Union Carbide moves to  exclude any reference to incidents where people died or were injured as a  result of Union Carbide’s chemicals other than asbestos.  Incidents not involving asbestos are  irrelevant, more prejudicial than probative, and would be unduly time  consuming.             The  motion is granted. Defendants’ MIL No. 5 Defendant J-M  Manufacturing moves to exclude any reference about Defendant, J-M A/C Pipe  Corporation and/or Formosa Plastics Corporation, U.S.A. being successor  corporations or alter egos or having successor liability because Plaintiffs  cannot prove such successor liability.   If successor liability is an issue and needs to be tried, it is a matter  for the trial court, not the jury.  The  parties are to raise the matter of how successor liability is to be tried with  the trial judge.             The  motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 6 J-M Manufacturing moves  to exclude evidence of working conditions at its facilities as irrelevant and  unduly prejudicial.  This motion is too  vague.  If “working conditions” refers to  something like wage and hour violations, that would be irrelevant.  However, if it refers to something like  workers being exposed to asbestos, the evidence could be relevant.  For example, the evidence of asbestos  exposure at the facilities could be relevant to knowledge or notice.             The  motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 7             J-M  Manufacturing seeks to exclude evidence about its compliance with 1972 OSHA  labeling regulations because the regulations do not require warning labels on  their products.  To the extent this  motion seeks a ruling on Plaintiffs’ failure to warn claims, it is an improper  motion for summary adjudication.   Otherwise, the motion is too vague.   The motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 8 J-M Manufacturing moves  to exclude any evidence of lobbying activities.   The motion is too vague and does not identify any specific evidence to  be excluded.  Therefore, the motion is  denied without prejudice to objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 9 J-M Manufacturing moves  to exclude testimony and videos from William Longo and Richard Hatfield about  work simulations because the simulations are not similar to Plaintiff’s  exposure.  Defendant argues the  simulations took place in small sealed chambers, used improper testing methods  such as TEM analysis not recognized by OSHA, and will be confusing to the jury  because the conditions are so different.   Whether TEM is an appropriate method “goes to the weight and not the  admissibility of the opinions.”  (Strobel  v. Johnson & Johnson (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 796, 811-812.)             At  trial, Defendants can cross-examine the experts about the similarities and  differences of Plaintiff’s exposure to a small, sealed chamber and argue the  jury should give the videos no weight because of the different conditions.  The motion is denied without prejudice to  objections at trial. Defendants’ MIL No. 10             J-M  Manufacturing moves to exclude evidence and argument that it has liability for  any product made, sold, or distributed by John-Manville Corporation because it  is not responsible for John-Manville’s liabilities.               Plaintiffs  state they will not seek to hold J-M Manufacturing liable for any products sold  before 1983.  Therefore, the parties  should be able to agree to a stipulation.   The motion is off calendar for the parties to meet and confer on a  stipulation (which they should have done before this motion was filed.) Defendants’ MIL No. 11             J-M  Manufacturing moves to exclude reference to Johns-Manville Corporation’s and  Certainteed Corporation’s bankruptcies.   Pursuant to the July 8, 2022 CMO this motion is deemed made and granted.  Plaintiffs did not show good cause to depart  from that order.  The motion is granted.             The  moving party is to give notice. Defendants’ MIL To Exclude Robert Johnson              Defendants  move to exclude testimony from Plaintiffs’ forensic economist that Joe Martinez  provides home health aide and security guard services worth $484,983.10 when he  sleeps.  Defendants argue Plaintiff must  be awake to provide services.  (Motion at  p. 3.)  Defendants cite no authority for  this assertion, and it is not obviously correct.  For example, there could be home health aides  who sleep during the night at the house and are available to wake up if  something occurs during the night.  At  trial, Defendants can argue that the services are worth very little or nothing  because they cannot be performed while sleeping.             Defendants  argue the expert did not customize his analysis to Plaintiffs’ specific  circumstances.  (Motion at pp. 3-4.)  That goes to the weight the jury should give  his opinion and can be the subject of cross-examination.             Defendants  argue that the expert has no basis for the wage estimates.  (Motion at p. 4.)  Plaintiffs point out that the expert relied  on The Dollar Value of a Day data for the value of services.             The  motion is denied without prejudice to objections at trial.             The  moving party is to give notice.  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT (UNION  CARBIDE)             DefendantUnion  Carbide Corporation filed a motion for summary judgment of Plaintiffs Joe  Martinez and Mary Martinez’s claims that Joe Martinez was exposed to asbestos  from Defendant’s products.   A defendant seeking summary judgment  must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the plaintiff’s case, or . .  . demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that  requires the process of trial.”  (Guz  v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a plaintiff cannot establish an  element of a cause of action, a defendant must make the initial showing “that  the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed  evidence.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield  Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)   “The defendant may, but need not, present evidence that conclusively  negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action.  The defendant may also present evidence that  the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence –  as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive discovery to the  effect that he has discovered nothing.”   (Id. at p. 855.)  A  plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the plaintiff has no knowledge of any  exposure to the defendant’s products may be sufficient to shift the burden to  the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of triable issues of fact.  (McGonnell v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc.  (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.)   The plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he did not recall ever working  with a product manufactured by the defendant may not be sufficient to shift the  burden if the plaintiff is able to prove his case by another means.  (Weber v. John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143  Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “‘If plaintiffs  respond to comprehensive interrogatories seeking all known facts with  boilerplate answers that restate their allegations, or simply provide laundry  lists of people and/or documents, the burden of production will almost  certainly be shifted to them once defendants move for summary judgment and  properly present plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id. at p. 1440.)              Defendant  argues Plaintiffs have no evidence that Joe Martinez was exposed to asbestos  from a product from Defendant.  (Motion  at p. 6.)  Plaintiffs allege he was  exposed to Defendant’s asbestos via joint compound products from Kelly Moore  and Kaiser Gypsum.  (Ibid.)  Joe Martinez testified that from 1963 to 1976  or 1977, he was working around tradesmen doing drywalling and using premixed  (wet) joint compound including from Kaiser Gypsum and Kelly Moore.  (Defendant’s Ex. C at pp. 76-77, 78, 81, 84,  85.)   Defendant states that by 1974,  Kaiser Gypsum was selling asbestos-free joint compound and by 1975 or 1976 had  removed all asbestos from its joint compound products.  (Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) 19.)  Defendant provided only a minority of  asbestos used by Kaiser Gypsum.  (UMF  21.)  Similarly, Defendant supplied a  minority of the asbestos for Kelly-Moore after 1972.  (UMF 30.)   Defendant, Johns-Manville, and Carey-Canadian supplied asbestos to Kelly-Moore,  8 percent coming from Defendant, 20 percent from Johns-Manville, and 72 percent  from Carey-Canadian.  (Defendant’s Ex. P  at pp. 955-956; Ex. Q at pp. 1484, 1577.)   Also, Thomspon-Hayward Chemical Company sold asbestos to Kelly  Moore.  (Defendant’s Ex. P at pp. 956-957,  960-961.)   Defendant argues this evidence shows Plaintiffs  can only speculate that Martinez was exposed to Defendant’s talc, citing Izell  v. Union Carbide Corporation (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 962.  In that case, the defendant Kelly-Moore had  multiple suppliers of asbestos, of which Union Carbide’s asbestos made up about  8%.  (Id. at p. 971.)  There was no evidence of the percentage of  the asbestos Union Carbide supplied to the Kelly-Moore facility where the  plaintiff worked.  (Ibid.)  Thus it was speculation to conclude the  plaintiff was exposed to Union Carbide asbestos.  (Ibid.)  In sum, “ ‘[t]he mere “possibility” of  exposure’ is insufficient to establish causation.”  (Id. at p. 969.)  Similarly, here Defendant has shown that only  8 percent of Kelly-Moore’s asbestos came from Defendant.  Under Izell, that shifts the burden. In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that in fact  Defendant was Kelly-Moore’s prime source of asbestos for its San Carlos  facility, which made products for the California market.  (Opposition at p. 6.)  Plaintiffs cite the Griffins deposition at  page 79, a Merrill deposition at pages 81-82 and 86-87, and another Merrill  deposition at pages 7, 14, and 15-16 in support of this assertion.  (Ibid.)   Griffins testified at page 79 that Kelly-Moore purchased  asbestos from Defendant.  (Plaintiffs’  Ex. H at p. 79.)  When asked what  facilities received asbestos from Defendant, he answered, “It’s my recollection  that the majority – that most of that material went into the San Carlos,  California facility.”  (Ibid.)  When asked whether Defendant was an asbestos  supplier to San Carlos, he answered, “It’s my recollection that that was the  prime source, that is correct.  I don’t –  I can’t testify that it didn’t go anywhere else, but I believe California was  the prime user.”  (Ibid.)  These answers were in the context of  questions about where Defendant’s asbestos went, not where San Carlos obtained asbestos.  The testimony supports the assertion that Defendant’s  asbestos went primarily to the San Carlos facility.  But that does not mean that all, or most, of  the asbestos used at the San Carlos facility was from Defendant.  Plaintiffs’ evidence shows the San Carlos  plant also obtained asbestos from Canada.   (Plaintiffs’ Ex. K at p. 20.)   Merrill testified at  pages 81-82 that Kelly-Moore operated in California, in addition to many other  states.  (Plaintiffs’ Ex. K at pp.  81-82.)  He testified at pages 7, 14 and  15-16 that he worked at the San Carlos plant, the San Carlos plant made  asbestos-containing products, the San Carlos facility and Ontario facility made  all products, other facilities made joint compound products, and Kelly-Moore  had three major suppliers for asbestos – Carey Canadian, Johns-Mansville and  Defendant.  (Plaintiffs’ Ex. O at pp. 7,  14, 15-16.)  Plaintiffs also cite an  exhibit to Merrill’s deposition that stated “there was a short period when  Kelly-Moore manufactured and sold joint compound out of a plant in Clovis,  California” which was closed in 1969.  (Plaintiffs’  Ex. N at p. KMX 01853.)  It also stated Kelly-More  had a dry wall manufacturing facility in Ontario, California that supplied  products to Southern California which was closed in 1975, after which  Kelly-Moore supplied products for sale in Southern California from the San  Carlos factory.  (Id. at p. KMX  01873.)  (This same memo states that 8%  of Kelly-Moore’s asbestos came from Defendant.   (Id. at p. KMX 01874.))  Plaintiffs  also cite Exhibit J, which states that pre-mix products from other Kelly-Moore factories  were marketed in Southern California.   (Plaintiff’s Ex. J at p. 2.)  Thus,  even if the San Carlos facility only or primarily used asbestos from Defendant,  Plaintiffs’ evidence does not support the assertion that only that facility  sold pre-mix joint pound in Southern California.   Merrill testified that Defendant’s  asbestos came from California, and when Kelly-Moore bought asbestos from  California that asbestos was from Defendant.   (Plaintiffs’ Ex. K at pp. 86-87.)   He also testified that “asbestos for San Carlos that originated in  Canada either came from a local warehouse or by rail.”  (Id. at p. 20.)  This evidence does not support the assertion  that Defendant was Kelly-Moore’s prime source of asbestos for the San Carlos  facility.  Rather, the testimony is that  when Kelly-Moore bought California asbestos, it purchased it from  Defendant.  But that does not mean that  Defendant was the sole or primary source of all of Kelly-Moore’s asbestos.  To the contrary, the San Carlos plant also  obtained asbestos from Canada.  (Plaintiffs’  Ex. K at p. 20.)   Plaintiffs also argue that  during a strike in Canada, Kelly-Moore obtained all of its asbestos from  Defendant.  (Opposition at p. 7.)  In support of this, Plaintiffs cite the  depositions of Griffins and Merrill.  (Ibid.)  Griffins testified that he was the president  of Kelly-Moore, Kelly-Moore sold asbestos-containing products, and it purchased  asbestos from “ Union Carbide Corporation and from sources that sold Canadian  chrysotile.”  (Plaintiffs’ Ex. P at pp.  19-22, 29-30.)  Merrill testified he did  not recall if there was an interruption of Kelly-Moore’s purchase of asbestos  from Union Carbide from 1968 to 1978; Kelly-Moore obtained its asbestos from  Carey Canadian, Johns-Manville and Defendant; Defendant’s asbestos came from  California; and Kelly-Moore started using Defendant’s asbestos in the mid-1970s  when the Canadian asbestos manufacturer was having a strike.  (Plaintiffs’ Ex. K at p. 87; Ex. O at pp. 16,  59.)  (Plaintiffs’ opposition (at page 7)  also cited Exhibit K at pages 17, 18-19, and 88, but Plaintiffs did not include  those pages in Exhibit K.)  This  testimony does not state that Kelly-Moore obtained all of its asbestos from  Defendant, even during the strike. Plaintiffs also cite to yet  another Merrill deposition where he states “I’m sort of thinking that the  percentage for Union Carbide was higher than 8 percent.  I would like to defer answering that until I  could see that – a summary of that report.”   (Plaintiffs’ Ex. L at p. 33.)  This  testimony does not establish that the percentage was actually higher, just that  the witness wanted to see a document before answering. In addition, Plaintiffs  cite the Merrill deposition (Ex. K) at pages 136-138 and Griffins deposition (Ex.  P) at pages 6, 19-22, and 24-30 to argue that all of Kelly-Moore’s interior  drywall products contained Defendant’s asbestos.  (Opposition at p . 8.)  But Plaintiffs did not attach pages 136-138  to Exhibit K.  Regarding the Griffins  deposition, pages 6, 19-22, and 24-28 merely list those who attended the  deposition, the witness’ background, and the subjects on which the witness would  testify.  At pages 29-30, he testified  Kelly-Moore made asbestos products including joint compounds, and it purchased  asbestos from Defendant and other sources.   (Plaintiffs’ Ex. P at pp. 29-30.)   This testimony does not support the assertion that all of Kelly-Moore’s  interior drywall products contained Defendant’s asbestos.   Mere possibility of  exposure to a defendant’s product is not enough to create a disputed issue of  fact.  (Johnson v. ArvinMeritor, Inc.  (2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 234, 244-245.)  As  in Izell, the evidence establishes that Defendant sold some asbestos to  Kelly-Moore generally and to the San Carlos facility specifically.  But the evidence also shows other suppliers  of asbestos selling to Kelly-Moore and the San Carlos facility.  “Plaintiffs failed to show what percentage of  the asbestos supplied to Kelly-Moore’s San Carlos plant came from Union  Carbide, as opposed to some other supplier.”   (Izell, supra, 213 Cal.App.4th at p. 971.) Plaintiffs argue that Izell  is distinguishable because in that case the court did not have evidence that  Defendant was the “prime source” of the asbestos used at the San Carlos  facility and the exclusive supplier of asbestos during a Canadian strike, and  that the San Carlos facility did not purchase from any other suppliers.  (Opposition at pp. 11-12.)  However, as detailed above, Plaintiffs  stretch their evidence much too far.  Their  evidence does not support these assertions.                In  sum, the evidence establishes Kelly-Moore obtained about 8% of its asbestos  from Defendant.  Even if that percentage  was in fact higher, Plaintiffs have not shown anything more than speculation  about how much higher.  Thus, as in Izell  “even if supplying Kelly-Moore’s San Carlos plant enhanced the possibility that  Union Carbide asbestos made its way to one of [Plaintiff’s] jobsites, this  still leaves speculation about whether [Plaintiff] was present when [others]  sanded joint compound that might have contained Union Carbide asbestos, as  opposed to asbestos from one of Kelly-Moore’s other suppliers.”  (Izell, supra, 213 Cal.App.4th at p.  971.)             The  motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.  Defendant  is to file a proposed judgment within five days.             The  moving party is to give notice.[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
(J-M MANUFACTURING)

            Defendant
J-M Manufacturing Company (“Defendant”) filed a motion for summary adjudication
of Plaintiffs’ punitive damages claim.  

            A.        Objections

Defendant did not number its
objections, making it more difficult to rule on the objections.  This is at least the second time this has
occurred.  If in the future defense
counsel fails to number its objections as required by California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1354 (b), the court will strike the objections.

The court did not rely on
most of the objected-to evidence and therefore does not rule on those
objections.

Objection Nos. 1-11 and 34
are overruled.

B.        Summary Adjudication of Punitive Damages Claim

A defendant seeking
summary judgment must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the
plaintiff’s case, or . . . demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a
material issue of fact that requires the process of trial.”  (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a
plaintiff cannot establish an element of a cause of action, a defendant must
make the initial showing “that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot
reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)  “The defendant may, but need not, present
evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of
action.  The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence – as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive
discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855.)  A plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the
plaintiff has no knowledge of any exposure to the defendant’s products may be
sufficient to shift the burden to the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of
triable issues of fact.  (McGonnell v.
Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc. (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.)  The plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he
did not recall ever working with a product manufactured by the defendant may
not be sufficient to shift the burden if the plaintiff is able to prove his
case by another means.  (Weber v. John
Crane, Inc. (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “ ‘If plaintiffs respond to comprehensive
interrogatories seeking all known facts with boilerplate answers that restate
their allegations, or simply provide laundry lists of people and/or documents,
the burden of production will almost certainly be shifted to them once
defendants move for summary judgment and properly present plaintiff’s factually
devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id.
at p. 1440.)

When the motion targets a
request for punitive damages, a higher standard of proof is at play.  “Although the clear and convincing
evidentiary standard is a stringent one, ‘it does not impose on a plaintiff the
obligation to “prove” a case for punitive damages at summary judgment [or
summary adjudication.’  [Citations.]  Even so, ‘where the plaintiff’s ultimate
burden of proof will be by clear and convincing evidence, the higher standard
of proof must be taken into account in ruling on a motion for summary judgment
or summary adjudication, since if a plaintiff is to prevail on a claim for
punitive damages, it will be necessary that the evidence presented meet the
higher evidentiary standard.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Butte Fire Cases
(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1150, 1158-1159.)  “Summary
judgment or summary adjudication ‘ “ ‘on the issue of punitive damages is
proper’ only ‘when no reasonable jury could find the plaintiff’s evidence to be
clear and convincing proof of malice, fraud or oppression.’ ” ’.  [Citation.]” 
(Id. at p. 1159.)

“ ‘[I]ntentionally marketing a defective product
knowing that it might cause injury and death is ‘highly reprehensible.’  [Citation.]” 
(Bankhead v. ArvinMeritor, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 68, 85.)  Punitive damages may be available when a
defendant knows the dangers of asbestos, took action to protect its own
employees from the hazard, knew that its products were likely to pose a danger
to users, and did not warn them.  (Pfeifer
v. John Crane, Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 1270, 1300.)  Such evidence “was sufficient to show malice,
that is, despicable conduct coupled with conscious disregard for the safety of
others.”  (Id. at pp. 1300-1301.)

First, Defendant argues
Plaintiffs have no evidence supporting an award of punitive damages.  (Motion at pp. 7-8.)  Defendant states it served “All Facts”
discovery and Plaintiffs’ responses to this discovery are factually
devoid.  (Motion at p. 7.)  Defendant states “Plaintiffs rely on
factually devoid discovery responses . . . .” 
(Motion at p. 8.)  But Defendant
does not identify, cite, or attach that discovery or those discovery responses –
not in the motion, separate statement, or Scanlon Declaration filed with the
motion.  These assertions are completely
unsupported.  Therefore, Defendant failed
to shift the burden by pointing to factually-devoid discovery responses.

Second, Defendant argues it
has affirmative evidence it did not act with malice, fraud or oppression
because it gave warnings to customers. 
(Motion at p. 9.)  For example,
Defendant put warning labels on its asbestos-containing products, trained
salespeople to warn against the use of cutting the product with power saws, and
distributed installation guides and material safety data sheets warning about
cutting the pipes with power saws.  (Undisputed
Material Fact (“UMF”) 22, 23, 24, 25.)

Assuming Defendant has
shifted the burden, Plaintiffs submitted evidence of disputed issues of
material fact.  Defendant had policies at
its facilities to protect its workers from asbestos dust.  (Ex. 1 at pp. 827, 1053-1054.)  By 1986, Defendant required its plant workers
exposed to asbestos to wear “suitable respirators all times” because there was
no safe level of asbestos.  (Ex. 1 at p.
934, 935-936.)  

Plaintiffs submitted
evidence that Defendant knew that if the people installing their asbestos cement
pipes did not follow proper work practices, they would be exposed to asbestos
dust.  (Ex. 1 at pp. 837-838, 876.)  Plaintiffs also have evidence that Defendant
knew workers installing its products could be using power saws to cut asbestos
pipes.  (Ex. 1 at pp. 1130-1131,
1135.)  And there is evidence Defendant
knew that cutting asbestos pipe could cause airborne asbestos fibers.  (Ex. 1 at pp.844-845, 865.)  Plaintiffs cite evidence that in 1986 at the
time of the EPA ban on asbestos cement pipes, Defendant was seeking to sell out
its inventory of that product.  (Ex. 1 at
p. 907-908.)

Plaintiffs’ evidence also
shows Defendant’s warning sticker on asbestos pipes was two inches by two
inches.  (Ex. 1 at p. 996.)  It stated “Caution.  Do not use power saws to cut this pipe.  Breathing dust created by improper work
practices may cause serious bodily harm,” and it referred to the work practice
guide.  (Ex. 27.)  The label did not mention asbestos or the
danger of cancer.  (Ex. 27.)  Plaintiffs submitted evidence suggesting that
not all of Defendant’s asbestos-containing pipes had warning labels.  (Ex. 1 at pp. 984-987.)  Similarly, Plaintiffs submitted evidence that
Defendant may not have delivered material safety data sheets to all customers
purchasing asbestos pipes.  (Exs. 30, 31,
36.)

This evidence shows
disputed facts about whether warning labels were placed on all abestos pipes,
the efficacy and adequacy of the labels, Defendant’s efforts to ensure that
customers received material data safety sheets, Defendant’s knowledge of the
dangers of asbestos to the end users, Defendant’s efforts to warn users such as
pipe installers even as it was warning its own plant workers about asbestos
exposure and requiring them to wear respirators, and Defendant’s desire to
continue making money off of the pipes even if workers installing the pipes
could be exposed to asbestos.  A
reasonable jury could find the evidence, interpreted in Plaintiffs’ favor, to
be clear and convincing proof of malice. 


Specifically, a
reasonable jury could conclude that Defendant “knew that its customers used the
products in ways capable of generating dangerous levels of asbestos dust.”  (Pfeifer, supra,  220 Cal.App.4th at p. 1301-1302.)  A jury could conclude that by requiring its
own workers exposed to asbestos to wear respirators at all times and by taking
other precautions to protect its workers, Defendant knew the dangers of
asbestos dust, but consciously did not warn customers and end users that the
pipes contained asbestos that could cause cancer if not handled properly because
Defendant wanted to continue selling the product.  A reasonable jury could conclude this
decision was made at the company level – that the company policy requiring
respirators for its employees shows the company knew the dangers of asbestos
dust and made a policy decision to protect its own workers.  A reasonable jury could infer that by
instituting that internal policy, but by not ensuring warning labels appeared on
all asbestos pipes and not ensuring material data safety sheets were delivered to
all customers expressly stating the pipes contained asbestos and the pipes if
cut could create asbestos-containing dust that could cause cancer, the company
consciously disregarded the danger to external end users.

In its reply, Defendant cites
Morgan v. J-M Manufacturing Company, Inc. (2021) 60 Cal.App.5th 1078.  In that case the court reversed an award of
punitive damages after a jury verdict because there was no evidence “J-MM’s
officers, directors, and managing agents acted with the requisite state of mind
to support an award of punitive damages.” 
(Id. at p. 1091.)  The
court stated it had reviewed the record and found no such evidence, but that
court did not describe the evidence submitted in support of punitive damages.  Therefore, this court cannot conclude that
the Morgan court analyzed the same evidence as submitted here and
determined the evidence was insufficient.

            The
motion is DENIED.

The moving party is to
give notice.