..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 24STCV23755
Plaintiff's Name: China Nichols
Defendant's Name: American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
People-Names: China Nichols
Company-Names: American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
Places: None
Dates: December 3, 2024, more than four years prior to filing the complaint
Events: Purchase of vehicle, attempts to repair defects, filing of complaint
Money: None
Intentions: To sell vehicle with defects, to conceal defects
Facts: Plaintiff purchased vehicle more than four years prior, Defendant failed to provide restitution, Plaintiff alleges fraud and concealment
Disputes: Time-barred claims, fraudulent inducement, economic loss rule
Acts: Purchase of vehicle, attempts to repair defects, filing of complaint
Agreements: Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
Laws: Code Civ. Proc., § 452, Code Civ. Proc., § 435, Code Civ. Proc., § 436, Com. Code., § 2725, Civ. Code, § 3294
Statutes: Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, Civil Code section 3294
Roles: Plaintiff (China Nichols), Defendant (American Honda Motor Co., Inc.), Judge (issuing the tentative ruling)
Significant Statements:
* "It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint." (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc.)
* "This rule of liberal construction means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the defendant." (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist.)
* "A party must allege fraud with particularity." (Wilhelm v. Pray, Price, Williams & Russell)
* "The economic loss rule does not apply to claims for fraud." (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Company)
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge's tentative ruling is in response to a demurrer filed by the defendant, American Honda Motor Co., Inc., and a motion to strike portions of the complaint filed by the plaintiff, China Nichols. The plaintiff has sued the defendant under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, alleging that the defendant sold a vehicle with defects and failed to provide restitution.

The judge has sustained the defendant's demurrer to the fifth cause of action for fraudulent inducement, finding that the plaintiff has not alleged specific facts showing the defendant intended to sell the vehicle with a non-functional driver-assisting safety system at the time of the sale. The judge has given the plaintiff leave to amend the complaint to address this issue.

The judge has also denied the defendant's motion to strike the punitive damages allegations, finding that the economic loss rule does not apply to claims for fraud. However, the judge notes that the plaintiff has failed to allege facts to support an award of punitive damages.

The judge has ordered the plaintiff to file an amended complaint within 20 days of notice of this order and has ordered the defendant to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.
