 Case Number:  24STCV23755    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  39  
 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


December 3, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24STCV23755




MOTION


Demurrer to Complaint
Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant American
  Honda Motor Co., Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff China Nicholas



 
MOTION
Plaintiff China
Nichols (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.
(“Defendant”) under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.  Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s complaint,
generally alleging the claims are time-barred and specifically contending the fifth
cause of action for fraudulent inducement/concealment is susceptible to demurrer.  Defendant also moves to strike portions of
the complaint.  Plaintiff opposes the motions.  
ANALYSIS
“It is black
letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the
allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal construction means that
the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
Any party, within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to
strike the whole pleading or any part thereof. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322(b).)  On a motion to strike, the court may: (1)
strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading;
or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the
court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd.
(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42
Cal.2d ¶767, 782.)
Defendant generally
argues Plaintiff’s claims are time-barred. 
The statute of limitations on claims under the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act is four years.  (Com. Code.,
§ 2725; Mexia v. Rinker Boat Co., Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1297,
1305-1306.)  However, a cause of action
does not accrue “until the plaintiff discovers, or has reason to discover, the
cause of action.”  (Fox v. Ethicon
Endo-Surgery, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 797, 807.)  
In the instant case,
Plaintiff alleges she bought the vehicle at issue more than four years prior to
filing the complaint.  (Complaint, ¶
6.)  However, Plaintiff contends she “discovered
Defendant's wrongful conduct alleged herein shortly before filing this
Complaint as the Subject Vehicle continued to exhibit symptoms of defects
following Defendant's unsuccessful attempts to repair them.  However, Defendant failed to provide
restitution pursuant to the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.”  (Complaint, ¶ 23.)  For pleading purposes, these allegations
suffice.  The Court cannot determine Plaintiff’s
claims are time-barred as a matter of law.
Defendant specifically
challenges Plaintiff’s fifth cause of action for fraudulent inducement.  A
party must allege fraud with particularity. 
“This means: (1) general pleading of the legal conclusion of fraud is
insufficient; and (2) every element of the cause of action for fraud must be
alleged in full, factually and specifically, and the policy of liberal
construction of pleading will not usually be invoked to sustain a pleading that
is defective in any material respect.”  (Wilhelm
v. Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324,
1331.)  To state a claim for promissory
fraud, Plaintiff must allege specific factual circumstances beyond contract
breach, which reflect Defendant’s contemporaneous intent not to perform.  (Hills Transportation Co. v. Southwest
Forest Ind., Inc. (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 702, 707.)  Plaintiff alleges Defendant knew the
driver-assisting safety system in the vehicle Plaintiff purchased from
Defendant had defects.  (Complaint,
¶¶ 45, 49.)  However, Plaintiff does not
allege specific facts showing Defendant intended to sell Plaintiff a vehicle
with a non-functional driver-assisting safety system at the time of the
sale.  Based on Defendant’s challenge,
and given Plaintiff’s pleading, Plaintiff must amend to address Defendant’s
contentions. 
Defendant also
argues the economic loss rule bars the cause of action for fraud.   The economic loss rule does not apply to
claims for fraud.  (See County of
Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield Company (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 328 [while
extensively interpreting the Robison Helicopter Company v. Dana Corp. (2004)
34 Cal.4th 979 case, the Court of Appeal reasoned “the California Supreme Court’s
decision in Robinson precludes the application of the economic loss rule
to any intentional affirmative fraud action where the plaintiff can establish that
the fraud exposed the plaintiff to liability” 
and “fraud itself is immune from application of the economic loss
rule because fraud is particularly blameworthy and therefore unlike both
contract causes of action and products liability causes of action”].)  Thus, Defendant’s argument is unfounded.  
As the Court
sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the cause of action for fraud, the motion to
strike the punitive damages allegations is moot.  However, the Court notes Plaintiff fails to
allege facts to support an award of punitive damages.  To state a prima facie claim for punitive
damages, a plaintiff must allege the elements set forth in the punitive damages
statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994)
8 Cal.4th 704, 721 (College Hospital).)  Pursuant to Civil Code section 3294, a
plaintiff must allege the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.
(a).)  “Malice is defined in the statute
as conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (College
Hospital, supra, 8 Cal.4th at p.
725.)  “The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim.”  (Grieves v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 159, 166, internal citations and footnotes omitted.)  
Plaintiff does not
allege any specific facts constituting malicious conduct, which could
support an award of punitive damages. 
(See, e.g., Complaint, ¶ 64.) 
Accordingly, at this point, Plaintiff has failed to allege facts to
support an award of punitive damages.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s
demurrer to the fifth cause of action in Plaintiff’s complaint is sustained
with leave to amend.  Sustaining the
demurrer to the fifth cause of action renders the motion to strike moot.  Plaintiff is to file an amended complaint within
20 days of notice of this order.  
Defendant is ordered
to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 