  Case Number:  24STCV00274    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


December 3, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24STCV00274




MOTION


Motion to Stay Action 




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff George Stanley Donev




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant Jared Smith



 
MOTION
Plaintiff Goerge
Stanley Donev (“Plaintiff”) moves to stay this action because of a restraining
order in Donev v. Smith (Super. Ct. L.A. County, 2023, No. 23STRO08197
(case No. 23STRO08197)).  Defendant Jared
Smith (“Smith”) opposes the motion.   
ANALYSIS
“Trial courts
generally have the inherent power to stay proceedings in the interests of
justice and to promote judicial efficiency.”  (Freiberg v. City of Mission Viejo
(1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1484, 1489.)  
Plaintiff obtained
a domestic violence order of protection against Defendant in case No. 23STRO08197.  The restraining order prohibits Defendant
from contacting Plaintiff “directly or indirectly, by any means . . . ,” but
permits Defendant to contact Plaintiff “through a lawyer or process server or
another person for service of legal papers related to a court case . . .
.”  The order is in effect until April
23, 2025.  (Declaration of George S.
Donev, Exhibit B.)  
Plaintiff and
Defendant are self-represented litigants in this action.  As the Court noted at the last proceedings in
this matter, given this reality, if this case proceeds without some carve out for
it in the protective order, Plaintiff and Defendant will interact in ways that
violate that order.  Defendant has, for
example, served at least one deposition subpoena and several sets of written
discovery, all of which would require Plaintiff to interact with Defendant.  With respect to any deposition, whether it is
conducted in person or taken remotely, such interaction is inevitable. Neither
party has indicated he has returned to the court which issued the protective order
to seek some modification of the order that would permit some limited contact
for purposes of the parties participating in these proceedings. 
In opposition, the
Defendant argues the domestic violence protective order issued against him is
on appeal.  It is not.  The Court of Appeal dismissed Defendant’s
appeal on September 10, 2024.  Therefore,
the protective order remains in full force and effect. 
 Defendant also asserts Plaintiff desires a
stay of this action because he wants to avoid discovery Defendant has propounded
and because Plaintiff wants to proceed with an action in which the parties are
involved in Hawaii.  Given remarks Plaintiff
makes in his reply brief, Defendant’s contentions in this regard are on the
mark.  To be clear, however, the only reason
the Court finds a stay at this time is warranted is because of the practical
impossibility of these two self-represented litigants being able to meaningfully
participate in this action while a domestic violence protective order is in
place, and that order has not been modified to permit them to communicate and otherwise
interact with each other.  
Accordingly, the
Court grants the motion to stay and schedules an order to show cause regarding
the status of the domestic violence protective order on April 26, 2025.  
As the Court
grants the motion to stay, the Court places the motion to quash service of
summons and all other motions off calendar. 

Plaintiff is ordered
to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 
 