  Case Number:  23PSCV00279    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants Blooming Box, LLC; Li Peng; and Ding Yue’s Motion  for Judgment on the Pleadings Respondent: Plaintiff W.H.  Contractors, Inc. Cross-Complainant Blooming Box, LLC’s Motion for  Summary Judgment Respondent: Cross-Defendant  W.H. Contractors, Inc. TENTATIVE RULING Defendants Blooming Box, LLC; Li Peng; and Ding Yue’s Motion  for Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED. Cross-Complainant Blooming Box, LLC’s Motion for  Summary Judgment is DENIED. BACKGROUND This is a breach of contract  action arising from a construction services agreement. In June 2021, Plaintiff  W.H. Contractors, Inc. (W.H. Contractors) entered into a written or oral  agreement with Defendant Blooming Box, LLC (Blooming Box) in which W.H.  Contractors agreed to construct improvements on property in the City of  Industry. Subsequently, Defendants Blooming Box, Li Peng, and Ding Yue  allegedly failed to pay W.H. Contractors for services rendered. On January 30, 2023, W.H.  Contractors filed a complaint against Blooming Box, Peng, Yue, and Does 1-50,  alleging the following causes of action: (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of  prompt payment, (3) common counts, (4) quantum meruit, (5) money had and  received, (6) declaratory relief, and (7) foreclosure of mechanic’s lien. On December 8, 2023, Blooming  Box filed a cross-complaint against W.H. Contractors, Siming Wang, Hongbo Yang,  and Roes 1-75, alleging the following causes of action: (1) statutory  disgorgement, (2) breach of contract, (3) negligence, (4) negligent  misrepresentation, (5) intentional misrepresentation, and (6) breach of express  warranty. On January 24, 2024, W.H.  Contractors filed a cross-complaint against Dongyi, Inc. (Dongyi); Land Vision,  Inc. (Land Vision); Aital Custom Glass & Mirror, Inc. (Aital Glass); and  Zoes 1-100, alleging the following causes of action: (1) implied equitable  indemnity, (2) implied indemnity, (3) contribution and equitable apportionment,  and (4) declaratory relief. On April 8, 2024, Blooming  Box dismissed its second, third, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action from  its Cross-Complaint. On April 8, 2024, Dongyi  filed a cross-complaint against Moe Cross-Defendants, alleging causes of action  for (1) indemnification, (2) apportionment of fault, and (3) declaratory  relief. On May 3, 2024, W.H.  Contractors dismissed its Cross-Complaint. On May 7, 2024, Dongyi  dismissed its Cross-Complaint. On May 9, 2024, Blooming Box,  Peng, and Yue (collectively, Blooming Box Defendants) filed the present motion  for judgment on the pleadings. Prior to filing on March 22, 2024, the Blooming  Box Defendants’ counsel met and conferred telephonically with W.H. Contractors’  counsel. (Baik Decl., ¶ 2.) On May 13, 2024, Blooming Box  filed the present motion for summary judgment. On August 29, 2024, the court  continued the hearing on the present motions in order for parties to provide  further briefing. A hearing on the present  motions is set for October 10, 2024, along with a trial setting conference. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL  NOTICE The Blooming Box Defendants  request the court take judicial notice of W.H. Contractors’ discovery responses  pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (h). Because “a court may  take judicial notice of the pleading party’s discovery responses (or those of  the party’s authorized agent) to the extent ‘they contain statements of the  [party] or his agent which are inconsistent with the allegations of the  pleading before the court,’” this request for judicial notice is GRANTED.  (Bounds v. Superior Court (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 468, 477, quoting Del  E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 605.) MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON  THE PLEADINGS The Blooming Box Defendants  move for judgment on the pleadings on the grounds that W.H. Contractors’ entire  action is barred by Business and Professions Code section 7031. For the  following reasons, the court DENIES their motion. Legal Standard Motion for Judgment on  the Pleadings A defendant may move for  judgment on the pleadings when the “complaint does not state facts sufficient  to constitute a cause of action against that defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  438, subd. (c)(1)(B)(ii).) “A motion for judgment on the pleadings is akin to a  general demurrer; it tests the sufficiency of the complaint to state a cause of  action. [Citation.] The court must assume the truth of all factual allegations  in the complaint, along with matters subject to judicial notice.” (Wise v.  Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 725, 738.) Business and  Professions Code § 7031 Business and Professions Code  section 7031, subdivision (a), states as follows: “Except  as provided in subdivision (e), no person engaged in the business or acting in  the capacity of a contractor, may bring or maintain any action, or recover in  law or equity in any action, in any court of this state for the collection of  compensation for the performance of any act or contract where a license is  required by this chapter without alleging that they were a duly licensed  contractor at all times during the performance of that act or contract  regardless of the merits of the cause of action brought by the person, except  that this prohibition shall not apply to contractors who are each individually  licensed under this chapter but who fail to comply with Section 7029.” (Bus.  & Prof. Code, § 7031, subd. (a).) Pursuant  to Business and Professions Code section 7031, subdivision (e), licensing  requirements have been substantially complied with “if it is shown at an  evidentiary hearing that the person who engaged in the business or acted in the  capacity of a contractor (1) had been duly licensed as a contractor in this  state prior to the performance of the act or contract, (2) acted reasonably and  in good faith to maintain proper licensure, and (3) acted promptly and in good  faith to remedy the failure to comply with the licensure requirements upon  learning of the failure.” But this does not apply when “the person who engaged  in the business or acted in the capacity of a contractor has never been a duly  licensed contractor in this state.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 7031, subd. (e).) Discussion In  this case, the Complaint alleges that “at all times relevant, [W.H. Contractors] was a duly licensed contractor with  the California Contractors State Licensing Board to perform work as alleged  herein.” (Complaint, ¶ 1.) The Blooming Box Defendants argue this allegation is  contradicted by W.H. Contractors’ discovery responses where W.H. Contractors  admitted that W.H. Contractors (1) obtained a contractor’s license on July 12,  2021, and (2) performed work on the City of Industry property before that date.  (Motion, p. 6:9-19.) But a review of the actual discovery responses that the  court has taken judicial notice of reveals no such contradiction. In Blooming Box’s Request for  Admission No. 3, Blooming Box stated as follows: “Admit  that, prior to July 11, 2021, CSLB had not issued a general contractor (Class  B) license to YOU.” (RJN, Ex. 1, p. 3:18-19.) In response to the request  for admission, W.H. Contractors stated the following after a series of  boilerplate objections: “Without  waiving these objections, Responding Party admits that the CSLB issued a new  Class B general contractors license to Responding Party on July 12, 2021.”  (RJN, Ex. 1, p. 3:24-25.) Although W.H. Contractors  uses the word “admits” in its response, its qualifying language demonstrates  this is neither an admission nor a denial as it is nonresponsive. It does not  address whether W.H. Contractors was licensed before July 11, 2021, and the  fact that it obtained a license on July 12, 2021, does not exclude the  possibility that W.H. Contractors had a previous license. Thus, W.H.  Contractors’ nonresponsive discovery response is insufficient to contradict the  Complaint’s allegation that W.H. Contractors was a licensed contractor at all  times relevant. Accordingly, the Blooming Box  Defendants’ motion is DENIED. MOTION FOR SUMMARY  JUDGMENT Blooming  Box moves for summary judgment on Blooming Box’s first cause of action for  statutory disgorgement pursuant to Business and Professions Code section 7031.  For the following reasons, the court DENIES their motion. Legal Standard Motion for Summary Judgment A  motion for summary judgment or adjudication provides “courts with a mechanism  to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite  their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar  v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843 (Aguilar).) It  must be granted “if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably  deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or  evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that  the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v.  Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119, quoting Code Civ.  Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) To establish a triable issue of material fact, the  opposing party must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v.  Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the  evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts  concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide,  Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)  “A motion for summary adjudication shall  be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative  defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,  subd. (f)(1).) Statutory Disgorgement Pursuant to Business and  Professions Code § 7031 Business  and Professions Code section 7031, subdivision (b) states “[e]xcept as provided  in subdivision (e), a person who utilizes the services of an unlicensed  contractor may bring an action in any court of competent jurisdiction in this  state to recover all compensation paid to the unlicensed contractor for  performance of any act or contract.” Subdivision (e) states as follows: “The judicial doctrine of substantial compliance  shall not apply under this section where the person who engaged in the business  or acted in the capacity of a contractor has never been a duly licensed  contractor in this state. However, notwithstanding subdivision (b) of Section  143, the court may determine that there has been substantial compliance with  licensure requirements under this section if it is shown at an evidentiary  hearing that the person who engaged in the business or acted in the capacity of  a contractor (1) had been duly licensed as a contractor in this state prior to  the performance of the act or contract, (2) acted reasonably and in good faith  to maintain proper licensure, and (3) acted promptly and in good faith to  remedy the failure to comply with the licensure requirements upon learning of  the failure.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 7031, subd. (e).) Discussion In this  case, Blooming Box’s Cross-Complaint alleges as follows: on June 7, 2021, W.H. Contractors entered into a construction contract  with Blooming Box (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 4.); at the time, W.H. Contractors stated  its contractor license was No. 1064256 (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 4.); however,  Blooming Box alleges this license belonged to another entity and that W.H.  Contractors did not acquire a license until July 12, 2021 (Complaint, ¶ 4.); and  prior to acquiring the license, Blooming Box alleges W.H. Contractors completed  work on the project without a contractor’s license. (Complaint, ¶ 5.) In Blooming Box’s separate  statement, Blooming Box establishes it is undisputed that W.H. Contractors  obtained a contractor’s license on July 12, 2021. (Defendant Separate Statement  (DSS), ¶ 2.) Blooming Box also establishes W.H. Contractors performed work on  the City of Industry property prior to July 12, 2021. (DSS, ¶ 3.) But no fact  in the separate statement establishes that W.H. Contractors lacked a contractor  license prior to July 12, 2021. While the fact that W.H. Contractors obtained a  contractor license on July 12, 2021, can lead to the inference that W.H.  Contractors lacked a contractor license before that date, it does not foreclose  the equally probable inference that W.H. Contractors was licensed beforehand  and merely obtained a new license. Because the court must consider all  inferences “in the light most favorable to the opposing party,” the possibility  of the second inference prevents Blooming Box from establishing W.H.  Contractors lacked a contractor license prior to July 12, 2021. (Aguilar,  supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843) Although W.H. Contractors  provide their own evidence in opposition, the court need not consider or  address any such evidence as Blooming Box has failed to carry their initial  burden of establishing they are entitled to summary judgment as a matter of  law. (Y.K.A. Industries, Inc. v. Redevelopment Agency of City of San Jose (2009)  174 Cal.App.4th 339, 367 [“The court’s assessment of whether the moving party  has carried its burden—and therefore caused a shift—occurs before the  court’s evaluation of the opposing party’s papers. [Citations.] Therefore, the  burden on the motion does not initially shift as a result of what is, or is  not, contained in the opposing papers.”].) And even in cases where the court exercises  its discretion to grant a motion for summary judgment on grounds not raised in  the moving papers, such grounds were supported by evidence included in the  moving papers. (Pereda v. Atos Jiu Jitsu LLC (2022) 85 Cal.App.5th 759,  766 [“A trial court nevertheless has the discretion to  consider other grounds for summary judgment if . . . the evidentiary basis for  those grounds otherwise appears in the record presented with the moving papers.”];  see also Luebke v. Automobile Club of Southern California (2020) 59  Cal.App.5th 694, 706.) Accordingly, because Blooming  Box failed to establish it is undisputed that W.H. Contractors lacked a  contractor license prior to July 12, 2021, the court DENIES their  motion. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the  Blooming Box Defendants’ motion for judgment on the pleadings as to W.H.  Contractors’ Complaint is DENIED. Furthermore, Blooming Box’s  motion for summary judgment on their Cross-Complaint is DENIED.