 Case Number:  24PSCV01968    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Hacienda La
Puente Unified School District’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint
Respondent: Plaintiff Rocio
Gonzalez
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant Hacienda La
Puente Unified School District’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint is SUSTAINED IN PART, OVVERRULED IN PART.
The Demurrer is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend as to the first cause of action and with twenty (20)
days leave to amend as to the second cause action.
The Demurrer is OVERRULED as
to the third cause of action.
BACKGROUND
This
is a wrongful death action arising from a high school student’s tragic suicide.
During the 2022-2023 school year, Diego Pena Gonzalez attended the Stimson
Learning Center (Stimson), a special education center operated by Defendant
Hacienda La Puente Unified School District (HLPUSD), erroneously sued as
“Hacienda La Puente School District.” During Pena Gonzalez’s time at Stimson, Pena
Gonzalez was allegedly bullied and harassed. In March 2023, Pena Gonzalez attempted
to commit suicide by jumping in front of a train. After Pena Gonzalez expressed
a desire to attend a “normal school,” Pena Gonzalez was transferred to Wilson
High School (Wilson) during the summer of 2023. At Wilson High School, Pena
Gonzalez was subjected to further bullying and HLPUSD’s staff allegedly failed
to provide the support promised in Pena Gonzalez’s Individual Education Program
(IEP) and Behavior Intervention Plan (BIP). On June 2, 2023, Pena Gonzalez
committed suicide by stepping in front of a train.
On
June 18, 2024, Plaintiff Rocio Gonzalez, individually and as
successor-in-interest of the Estate of Pena Gonzalez, filed a complaint against
HLPUSD, Does 1-100, and Martin Pena, as a nominal defendant, alleging the
following causes of action: (1) wrongful death; (2) negligent hiring,
supervision, retention, and training; and (3) survival.
On September
10, 2024, HLPUSD filed the present demurrer. Prior to filing on August 28, 2024,
HLPUSD’s counsel met and conferred telephonically with Gonzalez’s counsel and
was unable to reach a resolution. (Gardiner Decl., ¶ 4.)
A hearing
on the demurrer is set for October 10, 2024, along with a case management
conference and OSC Re: Failure to File Proof of Service on November 12, 2024.
ANALYSIS
HLPUSD
demurs to Gonzalez’s Complaint on the grounds that they are immune pursuant to
Education Code section 44808. For the following reasons, the court SUSTAINS HLPUSD’s demurrer to the
first cause of action without leave to amend and to the second cause of action
with leave to amend. The court also OVERRULES the demurrer as to the third cause of action.
Legal Standard
Demurrer
A
party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering
demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT
Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)
Education Code § 44808
Education
Code section 44808 states as follows:
“Notwithstanding any other provision of this code,
no school district, city or county board of education, county superintendent of
schools, or any officer or employee of such district or board shall be
responsible or in any way liable for the conduct or safety of any pupil of the
public schools at any time when such pupil is not on school property, unless
such district, board, or person has undertaken to provide transportation for
such pupil to and from the school premises, has undertaken a school-sponsored
activity off the premises of such school, has otherwise specifically assumed
such responsibility or liability or has failed to exercise reasonable care
under the circumstances.
In the event of such a specific undertaking, the
district, board, or person shall be liable or responsible for the conduct or
safety of any pupil only while such pupil is or should be under the immediate
and direct supervision of an employee of such district or board.” (Educ. Code,
§ 44808.)
Discussion
In
this case, HLPUSD argues they are immune because there are no facts alleged
that establish Gonzalez Pena’s suicide occurred on campus or under the
supervision of HLPUSD’s staff. (Demurrer, p. 4:8-5:7.) The court agrees these
facts are lacking and finds the case of LeRoy v. Yarboi (2021) 71
Cal.App.5th 737 (LeRoy) instructive. In LeRoy, the court held
Education Code section 44808 immunized a school district from liability for the
off-campus suicide of a student during a summer break as the student was not
under the supervision or required to be under the supervision of any school
employee. (Id., at p. 744.)
In
opposition, Gonzalez attempts to distinguish LeRoy by arguing the
present case arises not from Pena Gonzalez’s death but from the bullying and
harassment that occurred before Pena Gonzalez’s death. (Opp., p. 7:25-9:7.) As
to the first two causes of action asserted by Plaintiff, however, the court
finds this argument fails. Death is a required element of the first cause of
action for wrongful death. (Lopez v. City of Los Angeles (2011) 196
Cal.App.4th 675, 685.) Because HLPUSD’s immunity prevents them from being held
liable for Pena Gonzalez’s off-campus death, Gonzalez cannot maintain a cause
of action for wrongful death as a matter of law. And as to the second cause of
action for negligent hiring, supervision, retention, and training, all of
Gonzalez’s alleged damages arise from Pena Gonzalez’s death, including the loss
of Pena Gonzalez’s support and the expense of funeral and burial costs. (Complaint,
¶ 68-71.) Thus, as presently pled, the second cause of action is also barred by
Education Code section 44808.
As
to the third cause of action for survival, Gonzalez seeks to recover general damages
for all injuries caused to Pena Gonzalez before Pena Gonzalez’s death.
(Complaint, ¶ 72-78.). While some of the injuries include those arising from
the train collision and are likely barred by Education Code section 44808
(Complaint, ¶ 73, 74), other injuries include emotional damages as a result of
alleged on-campus bullying and harassment. (Complaint, ¶ 41, 78.) Because these
damages arise from conduct occurring on-campus while Pena Gonzalez was under
HLPUSD’s supervision, they are not barred by Education Code section 44808.
Thus, Gonzalez’s survival cause of action survives HLPUSD’s demurrer.
CONCLUSION
Based
on the foregoing, Defendant Hacienda La
Puente Unified School District’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Complaint is
SUSTAINED IN PART, OVVERRULED IN PART.
The Demurrer is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend as to the first cause of action and with twenty (20)
days leave to amend as to the second cause action.
The Demurrer is OVERRULED as
to the third cause of action.