 Case Number:  23STCV30362    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January 25, 2024                   TRIAL
DATE: NOT SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Harris Shukran v. County of Los Angeles,
et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV30362            
 
MOTION
FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Harris Shukran
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Kimball,
Tirey, & St. John LLP
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is a civil rights action that was filed on December 13, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants are attempting to evict him from his rental unit under
color of a judgment in an unlawful detainer action which Plaintiff contends is
invalid. 
 
Plaintiff moves for a preliminary
injunction restraining Defendants from removing Plaintiff or his belongings
from the rental property pending the conclusion of this action. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for
Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendants
are enjoined from taking any action to remove Plaintiff from possession of the
property located at 1755 Argyle Avenue #707, Los Angeles, CA 90028 pending
resolution of this action.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Plaintiff moves for a preliminary
injunction restraining Defendants from removing Plaintiff or his belongings
from the rental property pending the conclusion of this action. 
 
//
 
Legal Standard
 
A party may request a preliminary injunction “by obtaining
and serving an order to show cause,” as Plaintiff has in this case, when “the
party against whom the preliminary injunction is sought has not appeared in the
action.” (Cal. Rule of Court 3.1150(a).) 
 
“An injunction is a writ or order requiring a person to
refrain from a particular act.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 525.) “A preliminary
injunction may be granted at any time before judgment upon a verified
complaint, or upon affidavits if the complaint in the one case, or the
affidavits in the other, show satisfactorily that sufficient grounds exist
therefor.” (Code Civ. Proc.§ 527(a).) An injunction may be granted in the
following cases:    
 
(1) When it
appears by the complaint that the plaintiff is entitled to the relief demanded,
and the relief, or any part thereof, consists in restraining the commission or
continuance of the act complained of, either for a limited period or
perpetually.  
 
(2)¿When it
appears by the complaint or affidavits that the commission or continuance of
some act during the litigation would produce waste, or great or irreparable
injury, to a party to the action. 
 
(3)¿¿When
it appears, during the litigation, that a party to the action is doing, or
threatens, or is about to do, or is procuring or suffering to be done, some act
in violation of the rights of another party to the action respecting the
subject of the action, and tending to render the judgment ineffectual. 
 
(4) When pecuniary compensation would not afford adequate
relief.  
 
(5) Where
it would be extremely difficult to ascertain the amount of compensation which
would afford adequate relief.  
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 526(a)(1)-(5).) 
 
In deciding whether to issue a preliminary injunction, two
factors must be considered prior to issuing a preliminary injunction: (1) the
balance of the harm to the applicant should the injunction not issue, compared
to the harm to the enjoined party should the injunction issue; and (2) whether
the applicant is ultimately likely to prevail on the merits. (Common Cause
v. Board of Supervisors (1989) 49 Cal.3d 432, 441-42.)  A trial court
has broad discretionary powers to grant or deny a request for a preliminary
injunction if it does not act capriciously.  The court should exercise its
judgment in favor of the party most likely to be injured. (Robbins v.
Superior Court (1985) 38 Cal.3d 199, 205.)  In addition, the two
factors are interrelated: the greater the Plaintiff’s showing as to one of the
factors, the less that must be shown as to the other factor. (Butt v. State
of California (1992) 4 Cal.4th 668, 678.) 
 
Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendant
Kimball, Tirey, & St. John LLP (“KTS”) requests that the Court take
judicial notice of (1) the docket and filings in the related unlawful detainer
action 6230 Yucca Urban Housing LLC v. Harris Shukran, LASC Case No.
23STCV13122; (2), the docket and filings in the related unlawful detainer
action 6230 Yucca Urban Housing, LLC v. Shala Shukran, LASC Case No.
23STUD08271; and (3) the docket and filings in this action. Defendant’s
requests are GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d) (court records). 
 
Balance of Harms
 
            “Irreparable harm” arises when
monetary damages would not be sufficient to remedy the injury. (Wind v.
Herbert (1960) 186 Cal.App.2d 276, 285; Code Civ. Proc. § 526(a)(4).)
Injuries rising from wrongs of “continuing character” may also constitute
“irreparable harm.” (People ex rel. Gow v. Mitchell Bros.’ Santa Ana Theater
(1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 863, 871.) An injunction preventing disposal of property
is proper if disposal would render the final judgment ineffectual. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 526(a)(3); Wilkins v. Oken (1958) 157 Cal.App.2d 603, 606-607.)
Real property is presumptively unique such that the loss of possession cannot
be adequately relieved by monetary damages. (See Civ. Code § 3387.) 
 
            Plaintiff
has offered evidence by a sworn affidavit that the County of Los Angeles,
through the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, is attempting to enforce
the judgment obtained by the landlord Defendant 6230 Yucca Urban Housing, LLC
in the related unlawful detainer action 6230 Yucca Urban Housing, LLC v.
Shala Shukran, LASC Case No. 23STUD08271. (Declaration of Harris Shukran
ISO Mot. ¶ 11-13.) Defendant KTS, in opposition, argues that injunctive relief
is not available because it was not requested as a remedy in the Complaint.
(See Complaint Prayer for Relief.) This contention is specious. Although
injunctive relief is not a freestanding cause of action (Allen v. City of
Sacramento (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 41, 65), Defendant cites no authority
standing for the position that injunctive relief must be sought in the
Complaint before a preliminary injunction may issue to prevent irreparable harm
to the moving party. Moreover, Defendant KTS offers no evidence of any harm it
would suffer as a result of this injunction. The remaining Defendants have not
responded to this motion. 
 
            Thus, the
Court finds based on the foregoing evidence that Plaintiff has demonstrated a
risk of irreparable harm, and that no party has demonstrated any greater injury
that would result from granting a preliminary injunction. 
 
//
 
//
Likelihood
of Success
 
A preliminary injunction may not
issue unless the judge is persuaded that it is “reasonably probable” that the
moving party will prevail on the merits.  (San Francisco Newspaper
Printing Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 438, 442.)  The
judge does not determine the merits of the action or decide that the plaintiff
necessarily will prevail.  The judge only determines whether there is a
reasonable probability that the plaintiff will prevail.  (Youngblood v.
Wilcox (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 1368, 1372.) The moving party need only
demonstrate a likelihood of success on a single cause of action to sustain a
preliminary injunction. (Lam v. Ngo (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 832, 844 [“A single
cause of action can sustain a preliminary injunction”].)
 
1. Whether Plaintiff is a Tenant or
Occupant
 
Each of Plaintiff’s causes of action are
premised on the same common factual nucleus, to wit: that Plaintiff entered
into a lease agreement with the landlord Defendant, 6230 Yucca Urban Housing,
LLC, in which he was listed as the named tenant (Complaint ¶¶ 7-8). Plaintiff
alleges that the landlord Defendant filed an unlawful detainer Complaint
against him, listing him as the named tenant, on June 7, 2023, (Id. ¶
9), and then a second action against Plaintiff’s mother, Shala Shukran, on July
6, 2023. (Id. ¶ 10.) Although both Plaintiff and his mother answered the
Complaints against them, Shala Shukran failed to appear at trial, and a
judgment for possession was entered against her and “all unnamed occupants” on
September 28, 2023. (Id. ¶¶ 11-13.) The landlord Defendant voluntarily
dismissed the action against Plaintiff on October 10, 2023. (See Complaint ¶
14.) Plaintiff contends that the landlord Defendant and Defendant KTS wrongfully
pursued an unlawful detainer action against Plaintiff’s mother, despite already
having an action pending against Plaintiff, so that they could secure a
judgment for possession without Plaintiff’s resistance. (See Id.¶¶ 15-19.)
Plaintiff contends that, since the judgment was not properly obtained against
him, Defendants are attempting to improperly prohibit his access to the subject
property in violation of Civil Code section 789.3, and that they have committed
negligence against him by doing so. (Complaint ¶¶ 20-24, 32-36.) Plaintiff also
alleges that the County of Los Angeles is, in executing the lockout, attempting
to deprive him of property without due process of law in violation of his
constitutional rights under the 14th Amendment. (Id. ¶¶ 25-31.) 
 
Plaintiff’s sworn declaration states,
under penalty of perjury, that he is the person who entered into the lease
agreement with the landlord Defendant, and that the lease agreement lists him
as the tenant. (Shukran Decl. ¶¶ 1-2.) Plaintiff did not initially provide a
copy of the lease agreement. (See generally Shukran Decl.) In opposition,
Defendant KTS produced a written document which it contends is the relevant
lease agreement. (See Declaration of Christopher Evans ISO Opp. Exh. 1.) This
document, entitled “RESIDENTIAL TENANCY AGREEMENT,” is dated April 27, 2019,
identifies the subject property, and lists the tenant as “Kansept c/o Shala
Shukran.” (Id. p.1.) The document is signed on behalf of Kansept c/o
Shala Shukran and initialed “SS” throughout. (See generally Evans Decl. Exh.
1.) Plaintiff’s supplemental declaration states that Kansept is a corporation
owned by Plaintiff, and of which he is the sole officer and director.
(Supplemental Declaration of Harris Shukran ISO Mot. p.2:19-22; Exh. 2.) Plaintiff
has thus offered evidence that Shala Shukran was not the tenant under the lease
agreement, but rather that Plaintiff, through his company, was the named
tenant.
 
Defendant KTS argues that Plaintiff’s
challenge to the unlawful detainer judgment is invalid because Plaintiff failed
to present a prejudgment claim of right to possession in the case against his
mother. Under Code of Civil Procedure section 415.46, a prejudgment claim of
right to possession may be served on any person who appears to be or may claim
to occupy the subject premises at the time an unlawful detainer action is filed.
Service must be made by serving a copy of the prejudgment claim of right to
possession “attached to a copy of the summons and complaint at the same time
service is made upon the tenant and subtenant, if any.” (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 415.46 (a) [emphasis added].) Any unnamed occupant who does not file a
prejudgment claim of right to possession after service pursuant to subdivision
(a) may not object to enforcement of a judgment in the unlawful detainer
action. (Code Civ. Proc. § 415.46(e)(1).) 
 
            The
undisputed evidence presented by Defendant KTS shows that a Summons, Complaint,
and Prejudgment Claim of Right to Possession was served via substitute service at
the subject premises on July 17, 2023. (Evans Decl. ¶ 4.) Although no proof of
service was filed, Shala Shukran answered the Complaint in the action against
her on July 25, 2023. (Id.) No Prejudgment Claim of Right to Possession
was ever filed in the action against Shala Shukran. Defendant KTS contends
that, since Plaintiff was not named in the pleadings or the judgment against Shala
Shukran, he is an “unnamed occupant” under the statutory scheme. Plaintiff
argues in both his moving papers and his supplemental declaration that he is
not an “unnamed occupant” as a matter of law because he—or his company—was the
tenant named on the lease agreement. 
 
The Supreme Court has described the
task of statutory construction as follows: “’Our fundamental task in
construing’ . . . any legislative enactment, ‘is to ascertain the intent of the
lawmakers so as to effectuate the purpose of the statute.’ [Citation] We begin
as always with the statute's actual words, the ‘most reliable indicator’ of
legislative intent, ‘assigning them their usual and ordinary meanings, and
construing them in context. If the words themselves are not ambiguous, we
presume the Legislature meant what it said, and the statute's plain meaning
governs. On the other hand, if the language allows more than one reasonable
construction, we may look to such aids as the legislative history of the
measure and maxims of statutory construction. In cases of uncertain meaning, we
may also consider the consequences of a particular interpretation, including
its impact on public policy.’ [Citation]” (Even Zohar Constr. &
Remodeling, Inc. v. Bellaire Townhouses, LLC (2015) 61 Cal. 4th 830,
837-838.)
 
            The Code of
Civil Procedure does not define the meaning of “tenant” or “occupant,” and the
ordinary meaning of the terms provides little clarity. Black’s Law Dictionary,
for example, defines “tenant” as “someone who holds or possesses lands or tenements
by any kind of right or title,” (TENANT, Black's Law Dictionary (11th ed. 2019),)
and “occupant” as “someone who has possessory rights in, or control over,
certain property or premises.” (OCCUPANT, Id.) These definitions overlap
to a substantial degree, and, as a result, it is not clear from the plain
language of the statute whether the Legislature intended the statute to apply
to all persons who occupy the premises, notwithstanding a lease agreement, or
if the statute is meant to exclude those who are named tenants. Moreover, the
legislative history of section 415.46 is similarly unhelpful. Applying the rule
against surplusage, the Legislature’s use of both “tenant” and “occupant” in
the statute suggests that the statute draws a distinction between those who
have a right to use the property via a lease agreement, written or otherwise,
as tenants, and those who have physical possession of the property, as
occupants.
 
Although this construction
clarifies the meaning of the statute in general, it does not resolve the
dilemma of the effect of a lease agreement vis-à-vis the requirement to present
a prejudgment claim of right to possession. Plaintiff contends that the lease
agreement excuses him from the requirements of this statute, and Defendant KTS
contends it does not. In the Court’s view, the very nature of this action demonstrates
the hazards of Defendant KTS’s interpretation. Plaintiff has alleged that,
while he was in the midst of actively defending an unlawful detainer himself,
the landlord Defendant secured a judgment against his mother by default and
dismissed the action against Plaintiff. Assuming arguendo the truth of
these allegations, the landlord Defendant had fair notice of Plaintiff’s
presence, his identity, his right to possession, and his intent to defend
against the unlawful detainer and acted to deprive Plaintiff of possession
without first having obtained a judgment naming him, and without Plaintiff
having a fair opportunity to defend himself. The Court is extremely hesitant to
presume that the Legislature intended this unjust outcome. Plaintiff’s
approach, in contrast, safeguards a tenant’s right to a fair hearing and
opportunity to defend against an unlawful detainer action. The Court therefore
finds Plaintiff’s interpretation to be more persuasive, as it produces a fairer
and more just result.
 
Applying Plaintiff’s construction
of Code of Civil Procedure section 415.46, Plaintiff has offered evidence that
he is the named tenant on the lease agreement and that he was not required to
present a prejudgment claim of right to possession. Plaintiff has offered
evidence tending to show that the judgment obtained in the action 3STUD08271 is
not valid, and thus that the landlord Defendant’s attempts to remove him from
the property violate Civil Code section 789.3. 
 
            2. Defenses
to Claims
 
            Defendant
KTS argues that, as counsel of record for the landlord Defendant in the action
against Shala Shukran, Civil Code section 789.3 does not apply to Defendant KTS
because that statute only governs conduct by a landlord by its plain language. Although
true, this contention is not relevant because it does not excuse the landlord’s
conduct, and thus does not demonstrate that Plaintiff is unlikely to succeed on
any of his claims as to any party.
 
Defendant also contends that Plaintiff’s
allegations against KTS are barred by the litigation privilege, as set forth in
Civil Code section 47(b). This section provides an absolute privilege for any
publication or broadcast made in a judicial proceeding. (Civ. Code § 47(b).) “The
privilege applies to any communication (1) made in judicial or quasi-judicial
proceedings; (2) by litigants or other participants authorized by law; (3) to
achieve the objects of the litigation; and (4) that [has] some connection or
logical relation to the action.” (Silberg v. Anderson (1990) 50 Cal.3d
205, 212.) Although the Court tends to agree that any conduct in the unlawful detainer
which could be attributed to Defendant KTS, as counsel, is facially protected
by the litigation privilege, KTS does not appear in defense of the other
parties and thus cannot assert this argument on their behalf. Moreover, while
post-judgment conduct, such as execution of a judgment can be subject to the
litigation privilege where the procurement of the judgment is based on an
underlying communicative act (Rusheen v. Cohen (2006) 37 Cal.4th 1048,
1065), the Court does not construe the gravamen of this action as being based
on a communication. Rather, the gravamen of the action is that the judgment in
the action against Shala Shukran does not provide a valid basis to remove
Plaintiff because it does not apply to him. 
 
The Court thus finds, based on the
foregoing, that Plaintiff has demonstrated a likelihood of success on the
merits with respect to the first cause of action as asserted against the
landlord Defendant 6230 Yucca Urban Housing LLC. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Preliminary Injunction is GRANTED. 
 
            Defendants
are enjoined from taking any action to remove Plaintiff from possession of the
property located at 1755 Argyle Avenue #707, Los Angeles, CA 90028 pending
resolution of this action.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  January 25,
2024                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 