 Case Number:  BC715362    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January 25, 2024                   JUDGMENT:
September 26, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                         Vichit Tilakamonkul v. Vichai
Tilakamonkul, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 BC715362            
 
MOTION
FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendants/Cross-Complainants Virut, Vichai, Sumeth,
and Narlong Tilakamonkul
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs/Cross-Defendant
Vichit and Somsak Tilakamonkul
 
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
07/25/18: Complaint filed.
·        
03/12/19: Complaint in Intervention filed by
Royal Thai Cuisine II
·        
04/29/19: First Amended Complaint filed.
·        
08/21/19: Second Amended Complaint filed.
·        
04/07/20: Cross-Complaint filed by T-Team
Investment
·        
11/02/20: First Amended Cross-Complaint filed by
T-Team Investment.
·        
03/05/21: Second Amended Cross-Complaint filed
by T-Team Investment.
·        
06/30/22: Statement of Decision Rendered
·        
10/11/22: Amended Statement of Decision Rendered
·        
09/26/23: Judgment entered. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This dispute involves a partnership in which Plaintiffs sought to quiet
title, dissolve a partnership, and partition and sell the partnership property,
among other causes of action. The most of the individual parties are siblings.
Plaintiffs alleged that the defendant siblings denied that the parties were partners
and that Plaintiffs had any interest in several properties. In a
cross-complaint, T-Team Investment also sought quiet title and declaratory
relief. 
 
Defendants Vichai, Virut, Sumeth,
and Narlong Tilakamonkul move for attorney’s fees pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sections 847.010 and 847.040. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants’
Motion for Attorney’s Fees is GRANTED IN PART as described herein. Defendants
are awarded attorney’s fees in the amount of $202,899.10.
 
DISCUSSION: 
 
Defendants Vichai, Virut, Sumeth,
and Narlong Tilakamonkul move for attorney’s fees pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sections 847.010 and 847.040. 
 
Timing of Motion
 
            The
California Rules of Court require that a motion for attorney’s fees be served
and filed within the time for filing a notice of appeal. (Cal. Rule of Court
Rule 3.1702(b)(1).) Under Rule 8.104, an appeal must be perfected within 60
days of service of entry of notice of judgment. (Rule 8.104.) Here, notice of
entry of judgment was served on September 26, 2023. (Notice of Entry of
Judgment.) As the 60th day after September 26, 2023 was Saturday, November 25,
2023, the last date to file the motion pursuant to the Rules of Court was
Monday, November 27, 2023. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 12.) Defendants’ motion was
filed at exactly midnight on November 28, 2023, one second after the deadline
had passed. Plaintiffs argue that the motion should be denied as untimely for
being filed one second late, but identify no prejudice which they have
suffered. The Court is not inclined to penalize Defendants so harshly for such
a narrow violation of Rule 3.1702(b). The Court will therefore exercise its
discretion to extend the time for filing by one second, therefore making the
motion timely. (See Rule 3.1702(d).) 
 
Procedural History
 
On July 25, 2018, Plaintiff Vichit
Tilakamonkul (Vichit)[1]
filed a verified complaint for damages and other relief against Defendants
Vichai Tilakamonkul, Virut Tilakamonkul, Somsak Tilakamonkul, Marasri (Mary)
Tilakamonkul, Narong Tilakamonkun, Sumeth Tilakamonkul,[2]
and others claiming an interest in certain described real and personal
property. In the initial complaint, Vichit asserted claims for breach of
written contract, partnership accounting, dissolution of partnership and
accounting, conversion, breach of fiduciary duty, constructive fraud, and
partition and sale and accounting.
 
After several revised iterations of
the complaint, the Second Amended Complaint was filed on August 21, 2019, which
was the operative complaint at trial. In that pleading, Vichit Tilakamonkul
joined with brother and former defendant, Somsak Tilakamonkul (jointly
"Plaintiffs") to assert twelve causes of action against their
brothers, Defendants Vichai, Virut, Narlong, Sumeth, and Pramorte, as well as
Siriratn Tilakamonkul and several entities owned by some or all of the seven
Tilakamonkul brothers. These entity defendants included Royal Thai Cuisine II,
Inc. ("RT II"), Royal Thai Cuisine IV, Inc. ("RT IV"), and
T-Team Investments, LLC. ("T-Team"). The Second Amended Complaint
asserted claims for quiet title, breach of oral contract, negligence,
partnership accounting, partnership dissolution and accounting, partition and
sale of partnership property, breach of fiduciary duty, and breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
Various defendants filed
Cross-complaints in the action. By the time of trial, there were three at
issue. In its Second Amended Cross-Complaint, filed on March 25, 2021,
Defendant T-Team sues Plaintiffs Vichit and Somsak, as well as Sudatip
Tilakamonkul, who is also known as Dawn Tilakamonkul, alleging causes of action
for declaratory relief, quiet title, breach of contract, account stated, and
goods and services rendered. T-Team's cross-complaint focuses on the ownership
of real property located at 4941 Mount Bigelow in San Diego ("Mt. Bigelow
Property") and at 4199 and 4201 Ransom Street in Long Beach ("Ransom
Properties"), and the related issue of whether funds paid to Vichit in
2007 constituted a buyout of his interest or a loan still owed by Vichit to
T-Team. RT II intervened in the action on or about March 12, 2019 to bring a
claim for declaratory relief against Plaintiffs, seeking a judgment regarding
the ownership of the Royal Thai Cuisine restaurant in Newport Beach. Further, Defendants
Vichai, Virut, Narlong and Sumeth cross-complained against Plaintiffs for
declaratory relief on June 30, 2018, requesting a declaration that Plaintiffs
own no part of the restaurant businesses or real property they claim to own
jointly with the five defendant brothers.
 
The Court ordered a bifurcated
trial with equitable claims to be tried first, followed by legal issues to be
tried in a second phase if necessary. A bench trial was conducted from December
13, 2021 to December 21, 2021 and on January 3, 2022. The Court issued its
initial statement of decision on June 30, 2022, and an amended statement on
October 11, 2022. The Court subsequently concluded that all issues were
disposed of in Phase I, so there was no need for a Phase II trial. 
 
Consequently, the Court entered
final judgment on September 25, 2023, finding in favor of Vichit and Somsak and
against Vichai, Virut, Narlong, Sumeth, and Pramorte on the partition cause of
action in the Second Amended Complaint and on all cross-claims and affirmative
defenses asserted against Vichit and Somsak, and in favor of Sudatip (as well
as Vichit and Somsak) and against T-Team Investment, LLC on T-Team’s Second
Amended Cross-Complaint. (Final Judgment.) The Court also found that Vichit and
Somsak each sought only one-seventh of the real and personal property or sales
proceeds therefrom at issue with respect to the Ransom and Mt. Bigelow
properties only, and that each of the brothers were entitled to a one-seventh
share of the proceeds from sale of those properties. (Id.) 
Entitlement to Fees
 
            Defendants
seek an order awarding attorney’s fees pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 874.010 and 874.040. 
 
            Section
874.040 of the Code of Civil Procedure states that, subject to exceptions not
at issue here, “the court shall apportion the costs of partition among the
parties in proportion to their interests or make such other apportionment as
may be equitable.” (Code Civ. Proc § 874.040.) Costs of partition include, as
relevant here, “Reasonable attorney’s fees incurred or paid by a party for the
common benefit.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 874.010.) 
 
            The “common
benefit” in a partition action “is the proper distribution of the ‘respective
shares and interests in said property by the ultimate judgment of the court.’”
(Orien v. Lutz (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 957, 967 [quoting Capuccio v.
Caire (1932) 215 Cal. 518, 528].) “This sometimes will require that
‘controversies’ be ‘litigated’ to correctly determine those interests, but this
ultimately can be for the common benefit as well. The fact that a party resists
the partition does not change this.” (Id.) 
 
            Plaintiffs’
Motion for Attorney’s Fees filed October 10, 2023 argued that Plaintiffs were
entitled to fees and costs under these statutes because they were incurred for
the common benefit of determining the proper distribution of the ownership
interests in the subject properties. (See October 10, 2023 Motion for
Attorney’s Fees.) The Court concurred with Plaintiffs and awarded attorney’s
fees incurred in connection with those claims. (November 6, 2023 Minute Order.)
Defendants argue that, as the Court has already found that the partition action
was brought for the common benefit, Defendants are likewise entitled to
reasonable attorney’s fees. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue
that Defendants are not entitled to fees because the Court did not award fees based
on a common benefit, but on other equitable considerations. Plaintiffs are
incorrect. The Court expressly found that Plaintiffs were entitled to
reasonable attorney’s fees incurred in connection with the litigation of the
dispute surrounding the proper ownership of the subject properties because they
were incurred for the common benefit. 
(November 6, 2023 Minute Order, p. 5.) The Court reduced Plaintiffs’
total fee award based on the equitable consideration that not all fees incurred
were for the common benefit in the context of the partition action, but rather
for the individual benefit of the Plaintiffs in connection with non-partition
arguments. Specifically, the Court found that of the 1,287.9 hours of attorney
time claimed by Plaintiffs, 191.8, totaling $38,356 in fees, were incurred in
connection with Plaintiff’s unsuccessful non-partition claims that the family
restaurants were owned by a partnership of brothers, not valid corporations,
and thus were undertaken not to advance partition goals by disentangling the
ownership of the properties, but to litigate entirely separate issues. (Id.
pp. 6-7.) The Court also found that another 61.4 hours and $12,274 in fees were
incurred on the unsuccessful ownership claim on the Georgia Sue property—fees
to which Plaintiffs were not entitled because the evidence established that
Plaintiffs had no interest in the properties and the claims were thus undertaken
for Plaintiffs’ benefit, not the common benefit. (Id. p.7.) As these
fees were not incurred for the common benefit, the Court concluded that it
would not be equitable to award those fees. 
 
The Court agrees with Defendants.
As the Court has already found that the partition action was undertaken for the
common benefit of all parties, Defendants are entitled to reasonable attorney’s
fees incurred in connection with the partition aspect of this action. 
 
Reasonableness of Fees
 
            Defendants
seek an award of attorney’s fees in the amount of $309,773.66.
 
Reasonable
attorney’s fees are ordinarily determined by the Court pursuant to the
“lodestar” method, i.e., the number of hours reasonably expended multiplied by
the reasonable hourly rate. (See PLCM Group, Inc. v. Drexler (2000) 22
Cal.4th 1084, 1095-1096; Margolin v. Regional Planning Com. (1982) 134
Cal.App.3d 999, 1004 [“California courts have consistently held that a
computation of time spent on a case and the reasonable value of that time is
fundamental to a determination of an appropriate attorneys' fee award.”].) “[T]he lodestar is the basic fee for
comparable legal services in the community; it may be adjusted by the court
based on factors including, as relevant herein, (1) the novelty and difficulty
of the questions involved, (2) the skill displayed in presenting them, (3) the
extent to which the nature of the litigation precluded other employment by the
attorneys, (4) the contingent nature of the fee award….”  (Ibid.)
In setting the hourly rate for a fee award, courts are entitled to consider the
“fees customarily charged by that attorney and others in the community for
similar work.” (Bihun v. AT&T Info. Sys., Inc. (1993) 13 Cal.App.4th
976, 997 [affirming rate of $450 per hour], overruled on other grounds by Lakin
v. Watkins Associated Indus. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 644, 664.)  The burden
is on the party seeking attorney’s fees to prove the reasonableness of the
fees. (Center for Biological Diversity v. County of San Bernardino
(2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 603, 615.) 
 
The Court has broad discretion in
determining the amount of a reasonable attorney’s fee award, which will not be
overturned absent a “manifest abuse of discretion, a prejudicial error of law,
or necessary findings not supported by substantial evidence.” (Bernardi
v. County of Monterey (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1379, 1393-1394.)  The
Court need not explain its calculation of the amount of attorney’s fees awarded
in detail; identifying the factors considered in arriving at the amount will
suffice. (Ventura v. ABM Indus. Inc. (2012) 212 Cal.App.4th 258,
274-275.) 
 
Defendants seek
recovery of $309,773.66. in attorney’s fees, representing 1,425.25 hours of
attorney time incurred at hourly rates between $75 and $259 to litigate this
entire action. Put differently, Defendants request that the Court award the
full total of all fees incurred in this action, notwithstanding the
apportionment of the respective interests, nor of the distribution between
successful and unsuccessful claims, partition claims incurred for the common
benefit, or other non-partition claims and defenses. This request is supported
by an affidavit from Defendants’ counsel attesting to his skills, experience,
and hourly rate, as well as those of his subordinate, Merily Sanchez.
(Declaration of Andrew D. Weiss ISO Mot. ¶ 18.) Attorney Weiss also provided
copies of his contemporaneous billing records. (Id. Exh. 15.) 
 
As the
Court previously stated in ruling on Plaintiffs’ fee motion:
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 874.040 directs the Court to apportion the costs of partition among the
parties in proportion to their interests or make such other apportionment as
may be equitable. A strict allocation based on the interests of all plaintiffs
versus all defendants might result in a fee award to Plaintiff of two-sevenths
of the pertinent fees in recognition that this litigation established the
rights of Vichit and Somsak to their one-seventh shares. Such an apportionment
would disregard the confused views of most defendants about who owned the
family assets and the pre-filing conflicts among Defendants about whether
Plaintiffs still owned their shares in the Tilakamonkul properties. The Court
has captured in its Amended Final Statement of Decision the conflicted
testimony of various defendants about whether Plaintiffs’ ownership interests
in the family’s real property even after the lawsuit was commenced. (Amended
Final Statement of Decision, pp. 5-6.) Of even greater significance, however,
when three of the brothers sought to sell all the family property and exclude
Vichit, Somsak and Pramorte from sharing in the proceeds, Defendants Pramorte
and Virut objected and Virut even wrote a check to finance this lawsuit as an
effort to block the sale. (Id., p. 10.) The Court concludes, based on
these findings after trial, that there were at least four brothers – Vichit,
Somsak, Pramorte and Virut – whose interests were actively promoted when this
lawsuit was first filed. Moreover, given the familial connections between all
the principal parties and their muddled understanding of who owned what, the
Court finds that all parties were benefitted by a clear legal ruling finally
determining the property interests of the brothers and resolving the claims and
accusations leveled by various brothers based on vague oral agreements and
longstanding resentments.
 
(November 6, 2023 Minute
Order pp. 7-8.) In so finding, the Court eliminated fees sought which were
incurred before February 2022 in furtherance of Plaintiffs’ unsuccessful
partnership claims, because they were not expended in pursuit of the partition
claims, and fees incurred in connection with the unsuccessful ownership claims
as to the Georgia Sue property, as these claims—and the corresponding fees—were
not incurred by Plaintiffs for the common benefit. (Id. pp.6-7.)
However, the Court awarded fees connected with Defendants’ and
Cross-Complainants’ rejected contentions challenging Plaintiffs’ success at
trial by reference to cross-claims by their property manager and alleged
offsets to Plaintiffs’ successful litigation of the property interests,
because, in defeating the efforts of principally of Cross-Complainant T-Team to
assert claims over the properties to which it was not entitled, Plaintiffs
incurred attorney’s fees for the common benefit of the owners. (Id. p.
7.) 
As
Defendants are now seeking their share of attorney’s fees, logic and equity
dictate that the fee award be adjusted to mirror the adjustments made to
Plaintiffs’ fee request. Thus, the Court finds that the fees incurred defending
against Plaintiffs’ claims on the Georgia Sue property, accounting for about
22.1 hours and $6,519.50 in fees, should be awarded. (See Weiss Decl. Exh. 15.)
Defendants are not entitled to fees incurred for their unsuccessful
cross-claims and challenges to Plaintiff’s success at trial that attempted
merely to enhance Defendants’ position rather than serve the common benefit, accounting
for approximately 177.2 hours of attorney time and $50,006 in fees. (See Weiss
Decl. Exh. 15.) As for the fees incurred by Defendants’ counsel before February
2022 to defend against Plaintiffs’ non-partition, partnership claims, it is not
apparent from the billing records how much of the fee award relates to those
claims. From Attorney Weiss’s records, the Court estimates that Defendants
incurred 1181.1 hours of attorney time, totaling $245,474.50, before February
2022 on matters other than the Georgia Sue property. (See Id.)  The descriptions in the billing records do
not distinguish between hours spent on partition issues and hours spent on
partnership issues. Consequently, the Court concludes that the fairest solution
is to apply the same 20% reduction to Defendants’ fee award for that time
period that the Court imposed on Plaintiff’s fee award. (See November 6, 2023
Minute Order p. 7.)  Applying this modifier,
the Court reduces those fees to $196,379.60, a reduction of $49,094.90.
 
            Applying these equitable considerations, the Court finds
that Defendants are entitled to reasonable fees and costs incurred for the
common benefit in the amount of $202,899.10. 
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for Attorney’s Fees is
GRANTED IN PART as described herein. Defendants are awarded attorney’s fees in
the amount of $202,899.10.
 
Moving Parties to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  January 25,
2023                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 


