 Case Number:  BC720314    Hearing Date:   January 25, 2024    Dept:  47 Annabel
Aghajanian v. City of Glendale, Case No. BC720314
TENTATIVE
RULINGS ON CERTAIN MOTIONS IN LIMINE
Plaintiff’s MIL # 1:  seeking to exclude any evidence, testimony,
or argument regarding Plaintiff’s prior lawsuit against her former employer.  
TENTATIVE RULING:  GRANTED. 

The Court agrees
with Plaintiff that evidence of her prior lawsuit should be excluded as
irrelevant under Evidence Code §§ 350 and 210 and as unduly prejudicial,
confusing and time-consuming under Evidence Code § 352.  In Lowenthal v. Mortimer (1954) 125
Cal. App. 2d 636, 643, our Court of Appeal reversed a jury verdict in favor of
defendant, based on an improper ruling allowing evidence on 15 prior lawsuits
in which the plaintiff and her husband were involved.  The appellate court ruled that these lawsuits
were irrelevant to the issue of plaintiff’s alleged negligence in the case that
was tried, not probative of any “nervousness” on plaintiff’s part in
confronting the situation that led to the recent accident, and improper and
prejudicial as a means of attacking the credibility of the plaintiff.  (Id., at pp. 340-342.)  The same must be said here.  Evidence of Plaintiff’s prior lawsuit has no
probative value in assessing the strength or credibility of her claims here and
does nothing to undercut or bolster her credibility in making those claims. 
Defendants argue
that the prior lawsuit should be admitted as evidence of a “pattern of making
false complaints against her supervisors when her work performance is
criticized,” and that it is admissible under subdivision (b) of Evidence Code
§1101 to show Plaintiff’s plan or design to use litigation to secure financial
gain rather than to assert valid complaints about discrimination and
retaliation.  The Court is not persuaded
by these arguments.  That Plaintiff lost
a previous lawsuit for discrimination against a prior employer says nothing
about the righteousness of her claims here. 
Nor can it be said that it reflects a “plan” or “scheme” on Plaintiff’s
part since evaluating such a pattern necessarily involves an objective
assessment of the underlying misconduct being alleged in each case as much as
Plaintiff’s subjective evaluation of her employment circumstances.  Further, Plaintiff’s efforts to assert her
rights under protective legislation like the FEHA should not be undermined by
allowing Defendants to disparage her “intent” or “motive” to enforce those
rights against multiple employers as somehow nefarious or improper.  
As an alternative
basis for admission, Defendants urge the Court to permit evidence of
Plaintiff’s prior lawsuit to prove that her emotional distress arising from
Defendants’ alleged misconduct complained about in August 2018 was in fact
generated by her difficulties with her previous employer in her employment with
the City of Los Angeles from January 2007 to April 2008. (Defendant’s Exh. B,
p. 31.) This is simply not plausible. 
Plaintiff’s allegations of misconduct by the City during 2007-2008 is
sufficiently remote in time from the misconduct asserted against Defendants
that it cannot be said that any such misconduct would have been an alternate,
pre-existing impetus for Plaintiff’s current emotional injuries.  Certainly, Defendants have pointed to no
evidence supporting their contention that Plaintiff’s experience with the City a
decade beforehand contributed in any way to the emotional distress damages she
claims to have suffered in this case. 
Defendant
also urges the Court to allow evidence of the past lawsuit to be used to
impeach Plaintiff’s testimony in this case that she never treated with a mental
health care professional (Exh. D, p. 80) by pointing to interrogatory answers
in the prior lawsuit. It is not clear to the Court that there is any
contradiction between Plaintiff’s recent deposition testimony and her July 2009
interrogatory answers.  (Exh. B, p.
46.)  In those answers, Plaintiff stated
that she treated with Dr. Karo Isagholian for an “[e]xamination and treatment
for workplace/industrial injuries (mental/emotional and physical/orthopedic)”
on September 6, 2007, and January 10, 2008. 
(Id.)  Although Defendant
may be able to prove otherwise, it does not appear that Dr. Isagholian was a
“mental health care professional,” but rather a worker’s compensation doctor or
general physician treating Plaintiff for her orthopedic injury and stress.  Subject to additional proof that there is a
real conflict in Plaintiff’s sworn statements, the Court denies Defendant’s
effort to use Plaintiff’s 2009 interrogatory answer to impeach her recent
deposition testimony.   
Finally, even if
there were some minimal probative value to be ascribed to Plaintiff’s prior
lawsuit, the Court would exclude the evidence under Evidence Code § 352 because
its scant relevant is starkly outweighed by the prejudice Plaintiff would
suffer by being pegged as a litigious employee, the confusion the jury would
experience in wondering how to assess Plaintiff’s prior work experience in
ruling on this case, and the waste of time and resources that would be
necessary to explore Plaintiff’s complaints in the prior case to compare and
contrast them with those in this case. 
The Court concludes, therefore, that evidence of Plaintiff’s prior
lawsuit must be excluded.  
Plaintiff’s MIL # 2:  seeking to exclude any evidence of or
reference to anonymous letters about Plaintiff’s job performance.
TENTATIVE RULING:  GRANTED. 

The Court disagrees with Defendants that there is any legitimate
non-hearsay purpose for admission of the anonymous letters.  The idea that the letters prompted an
investigation is all well and good, but the fact that Defendants could not
identify the author of the letters, confirm the facts and incidents on which
the author based his or her accusations against Plaintiff, or analyze the
possible biases or motivations of the author renders the content of the letters
to be purely inadmissible hearsay.  Defendants’
witnesses may be able to say they conducted an investigation in response to
anonymous letters, if the reason or impetus for their investigation are
relevant, but they cannot seek admission of the substance of the letters without
running afoul of the hearsay rule. 
Moreover, given the flimsy basis for a non-hearsay purpose – that
Defendants reasonably relied on unsubstantiated charges raised by anonymous
sources to reach legitimate reasons for their actions – any substantive
reference to the letters would provoke a prejudicial response in the jury that
would be starkly outweighed by any probative value.
 