 Case Number:  23STCV19261    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  73 1/09/2025
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding
 
AKLYAN, et al. v. GALPIN JAGUAR LINCOLN-MERCURY, INC., et al. (23STCV19261)
 
Counsel for Moving
Party/Defendant Ford Motor Company:         Daniel S. Rodman, Alina 
Mooradiam,
and Sarah M. 
Nakamoto
(Snell & Wilmer LLP.)
 
Counsel
for Opposing Party/Defendant Galpin Jaguar Lincoln-              James J. Perkins 
Mercury,
Inc.:                                                                                                 (Colman
and Perkins Law Group)
 
(1)  
Motion for Good FAITH SETTLEMENT DETERMINATION (filed on 12/06/24)
(2)  
MOTION TO SEAL THE SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT (filed on 12/06/24)
 
TENTATIVE
RULINGS
 
The Motion for Good Faith Settlement
Determination is CONTINUED to Wednesday, January 29, 2025, at  8:30 AM, Dept. 73, Stanley Mosk Courthouse.
Defendant Ford Motor Company is ordered to communicate the settlement amount to
Defendant Galpin
Jaguar Lincoln-Mercury, Inc. d/b/a Galpin Premier Collection. At least five (5)
court days before the next hearing, Defendant Galpin Jaguar Lincoln-Mercury,
Inc. d/b/a Galpin Premier Collection is ordered to file and serve a
supplemental brief or declaration addressing its burden of the Tech-Bilt
factors. 
 
The Motion to Seal the Settlement Agreement
is GRANTED. The Court orders the settlement amount in the settlement agreement
entered by Defendant Ford Motor Company and Plaintiffs Garen Aklyan and Yelena Malkhasyan to be
placed under seal.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On August 11, 2023, Plaintiffs Garen
Aklyan, individually and as successor-in-interest to Arthur Aklyan, deceased
(“Decedent”); and Yelena Malkhasyan (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed this
action. On January 24, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint against
Defendants Galpin Jaguar Lincoln-Mercury, Inc. d/b/a Galpin Premier Collection
(“Galpin”); Ford Motor Company (“Ford”); the State of California; and
California Department of Transportation.
 
The FAC alleges the following. On August 28, 2022, Decedent was involved in a fatal
collision while driving northbound on the I-5 highway, south of Sheldon Street,
Sun Valley, California 91352, in a 2018 Lincoln MKZ, California License Plate
No. 8EQC405, Vehicle Identification No. 3LN6L5E90JR615845 (the “MKZ”). The MKZ
contained inherent defects in design and manufacturing. Decedent faced an
emergency braking situation (while using the MKZ and each of its component
parts as intended or in a reasonably foreseeable manner), causing a collision. Had
the MKZ’s ruptured and/or structurally weak front brake jounce hoses and loose
steering wheel retaining bolt been repaired, the collision would have been
prevented or its severity lessened. 
 
Plaintiffs assert the following causes
of action.
 
1.      Strict Liability/Product Defect
2.      Negligence/Product Defect
3.      Dangerous Condition of Public Property
 
A non-jury trial is set for July 21, 2025.
 
II. MOTION FOR GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT DETERMINATION 
 
 
On December 6, 2024, Ford filed the instant
Motion for Good Faith Settlement Determination, arguing the following. 
 
·       In
this action, involving alleged joint tortfeasors, Defendant Ford moves for an
order determining that its settlement with Plaintiffs was entered in good faith
within the meaning of Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6. 
·       Tech-Bilt,
Inc. v. Wooodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488 (“Tech-Bilt”) established
the litmus test of good faith determination. 
o   According
to the California Supreme Court, a good faith settlement is “within the
reasonable range of the settling tortfeasor’s proportional share of comparative
liability for the plaintiff’s injuries.” (Tech-Bilt, supra, 38
Cal.3d at p. 499.)
o   To
determine whether the settlement is reasonable, the Court is required to weigh
the six (6) factors in Tech-Bilt. 
·       Here,
Ford’s settlement with Plaintiffs satisfies each of the six (6) Tech-Bilt
factors. 
o   First
Tech-Bilt Factor: Rough
approximation of a plaintiff’s potential recovery and the settlor’s
proportionate liability. 
§  Plaintiffs’
potential recovery against Ford and Ford’s proportionate liability was minimal
at best. 
·       Plaintiffs
are suing Ford for strict products liability/product defect and
negligence/product defect. 
·       Plaintiffs
claim that the MKZ the Decedent was driving was defectively designed and
manufactured and that Ford failed to warn about those defects.
·       In
California, a manufacturer may only be held liable under a theory of strict
product liability if (1) it manufactured a defective product, (2) the defect
existed at the time of manufacture, and (3) the defect proximately caused an
injury to the consumer.
·       To
establish proximate causation (the third element), a plaintiff must prove that:
o   (A)
The product, as originally designed and manufactured, proximately caused
plaintiff’s injuries; and 
o   (B) the
disputed design, rather than the circumstances of the collision, was the
proximate cause of injury.
·       Here,
the MKZ and its component parts as designed and manufactured were reasonably
safe for their foreseeable use, and the vehicle met and exceeded all applicable
standards when it was manufactured. 
·       Plaintiffs
cannot prove their defect allegations against Ford or prove proximate
causation. 
o   Plaintiffs’
claim that the MKZ was subject to recalls is meritless. 
§  Recall
Safety Recall 18S08 did not apply to the MKZ because the MKZ had power adjust
steering columns. 
§  Recall
Safety Recall 23S12 did not apply to the MKZ because that vehicle was
manufactured outside of the build dates of that recall. 
o    Plaintiffs did not preserve the MKZ and,
therefore, could not prove any of their defect theories. 
·       Ford’s
liability, if any, was reduced by the comparative fault of other parties.  
o   A
Traffic Collision Report revealed that Decedent caused the accident. 
§  Decedent
made an unsafe turning movement to the right, causing the MKZ to cross over the
painted solid white line, traverse the concrete gutter, and asphalt shoulder
bordering the east portion of the roadway, veer off the roadway, up the
ascending dirt embankment, and travel in a northeasterly direction. 
§  The
MKZ crashed into the Changeable Message Sign and then into the mental gantry
within the ascending dirt embankment. 
§  The
impact’s momentum caused the MKZ to spin in a counterclockwise motion within
the embankment, resulting in Decedent’s death due to rapid blunt force trauma. 
o   Plaintiff
Garen Aklyan also contributed to the accident by improperly entrusting the MKZ
to Decedent, an unauthorized the plaintiff’s vehicle rental agreement with
Galpin. 
o   The
Complaint alleges that other defendants, Galpin and CalTrans, caused or
contributed to the accident. 
o   The
Complaint also alleges that the dangerous condition of public property
contributed to the accident. 
§  For
those reasons, the first Tech-Bilt factor weighs in favor of finding that the
Ford-Plaintiffs settlement was entered in good faith. 
o   Second
Tech-Bilt Factor: The
amount paid in settlement.
§  The
confidential amount to be paid by Ford is appropriate given the nature of
Plaintiffs’ damages and the liability of other parties as noted above. 
§  Moreover,
Ford has disclosed the amount of settlement to all parties who have appeared. 
o   Third
Tech-Bilt Factor: A
recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than if found liable
at trial. 
§  The
third Tech-Bilt Factor also favors a good faith determination because Ford’s
potential recovery is discounted for the purposes of settlement. 
o   Fourth
Tech-Bilt Factor: The
financial conditions and insurance policy limits of settling defendants. 
§  Ford
does not dispute that it has sufficient finances to pay more than the
settlement amount if a judgment is entered against Ford at trial. 
§  However,
even a disproportionately low settlement is in good faith where the liability
of the party, like Ford’s in this case, is speculative. 
o   Fifth
Tech-Bilt Factor: Any
evidence, or absence of evidence, of collusion, fraud, or tortuous conduct
between the settling parties aimed at making non-settling parties pay more than
their fair share. 
§  There
is no evidence that the settlement involved collusion, fraud, or other tortuous
conduct. 
o   Sixth
Tech-Bilt Factor: Whether
the reasonable settlement figure is grossly disproportionate to what a
reasonable person at the time of settlement would estimate the settling
defendant’s liability to be.
§  The
settlement is within the ballpark of a reasonable settlement given Ford’s
arguments disputing liability, and the fact that other persons bore an overwhelmingly
large degree of responsibility for Plaintiffs’ damages. 
·       The
motion has complied with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1382.
o   According
to the rule, a motion for determination of good faith settlement requesting dismissal
of a pleading or a portion of a pleading must list each party, pleading (or
portion of pleading) affected by the settlement, and the date on which the
pleading was filed.
o   Here,
Ford has complied with the rule by providing the required information. 
·       For
those reasons, the Court should grant the good faith settlement motion and
enter the following orders. 
o   An
order determining that the settlement between Ford and Plaintiffs was entered
in good faith as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6. 
o   An
order finding all pending and future claims against Ford for equitable
indemnity, comparative indemnification, contribution, reimbursement, or
declaratory relief shall be discharged and barred as a matter of law. As of the
filing date of the motion, no such claims have been made against Ford.
 
On December 26, 2024, Galpin filed one
combined opposition to the motion for good faith settlement and motion to seal,
arguing the following.
 
·       Ford’s
motion for good faith settlement must be denied because it is based on an
unknown, undisclosed, and secret settlement amount in violation of the holdings
in Tech-Bilt and Mediplex of California, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1995) 34 Cal.App.4th 748 (“Mediplex”).
o   According
to Mediplex, “a party may not both seek confirmation of a settlement
agreement and withhold it from nonsettling defendants on the grounds of
confidentiality.” (Mediplex, supra, 34 Cal.App.4th at p. 752.)
o   In Mediplex,
the settling parties were required to disclose the settlement documents to the
non-settling party, who had the right to review them in order to oppose the
motion for good faith settlement. (Mediplex, supra, 34
Cal.App.4th at pp. 753-754.)
o   Refusing
to disclose the settlement amount prejudices Galpin which is unable to address
in its opposition Tech-Bilt factors, including whether the amount of the
settlement is within the reasonable range of Ford’s proportional share of
comparative liability. 
o   To
preserve its right to indemnity against Ford (under California Vehicle Code section
11713.13(f), in addition to contractual indemnification) and to an offset, Galpin
has a right to know the settlement amount. 
·       There
is no evidence that Galpin was liable because the rental agreement between
Galpin and Plaintiff Garen Aklyan restricted the plaintiff from allowing anyone
under 21 years of old, which includes the Decedent (who was 19 at the time of
the incident), to drive the MKZ. 
·       Since
Galpin has been deprived of the opportunity to review the settlement and
present evidence essential to its opposition, the Court should not determine
that Ford’s settlement with Plaintiff was entered in good faith. 
 
On January 2, 2025, Ford filed its reply in
support of the motion for good faith settlement, arguing the following. 
 
·       Email
correspondences prove that Ford had discussions with Galpin regarding the
settlement and settlement amount before Ford filed the instant motion. 
·       Even
if Galpin’s counsel was not aware of the settlement amount, it had five months
from the time the settlement occurred to the time the motion was filed and
served to reach out to Ford’s counsel and ask for the settlement amount. 
·       Galpin
chose not to do that so that it could oppose the motion on that ground alone. 
·       This
Court should therefore find that Galpin has failed to meet its burden of
proving that the settlement is grossly disproportionate to Ford’s share of
potential liability. 
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
A
court must approve any settlement entered into by less than all joint
tortfeasors or co-obligors. (Code Civ. Proc., § 877.6.) This requirement
furthers two (sometimes competing) policies: (1) the equitable sharing of costs
among the parties at fault, and (2) the encouragement of settlements. (Erreca’s
v. Superior Court (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 1475, 1487.) 
 
Under
Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6: “A determination by the court that the
settlement was made in good faith shall bar any other joint tortfeasor or
co-obligor from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or
co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 877.6, subd. (c).)
 
“[T]he
intent and policies underlying section 877.6 require that a number of factors
be taken into account including [1] a rough approximation of plaintiffs’
total recovery and the settlor’s proportionate liability, [2] the amount
paid in settlement, [3] the allocation of settlement proceeds among
plaintiffs, and [4] a recognition that a settlor should pay less in
settlement than he would if he were found liable after a trial. Other relevant
considerations include [5] the financial conditions and insurance policy
limits of settling defendants, as well as [6] the existence of
collusion, fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of
nonsettling defendants.” (Tech-Bilt, Inc.
v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488, 499 (“Tech-Bilt”).)

 
The Tech-Bilt
factors must be evaluated “on the basis of information available at the time of
the settlement.” (Tech-Bilt, supra,
38 Cal.3d at p. 499.)
 
“[A]
defendant’s settlement figure must not be grossly disproportionate to what a
reasonable person, at the time of the settlement, would estimate the settling
defendant’s liability to be.” (Torres v.
Union Pacific R. Co. (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 499, 509.) 
 
When
a motion for determination of good faith settlement is contested, the moving
party must provide the court with declarations or other evidence demonstrating
the facts necessary to evaluate the settlement in terms of the Tech-Bilt factors. (City of Grand Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1251,
1261.
 
After
an initial showing by the moving party, the burden of proof then shifts to the
nonsettling defendant to demonstrate the settlement lacks good faith. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 877.6, subd. (d); Abbott
Ford, Inc. v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d 858, 895.) In order to
demonstrate a lack of good faith, the non-settling party must show the
settlement is so far “out of the ballpark” as to be inconsistent with the
equitable objectives of section 877.6. (Nutrition Now, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 209, 213.)
 
B.      Discussion
 
Relevant
to the first, second, third, fifth, and sixth Tech-Bilt factors, Ford’s
counsel attests to the following facts to support Ford’s position that the
defendant’s liability was minimal at best. This product liability and
negligence action arises from a single-vehicle accident involving a 2018
Lincoln MKZ FWD Reserve (VIN 3LN6L5E90JR615845) (the “MKZ”) that occurred on
August 28, 2022, at approximately 5:00 a.m. on northbound Interstate 5 freeway,
in Los Angeles, California. (Declaration of Sarah M. Nakamoto, filed on
December 6, 2024 (“Nakamoto Decl.”), ¶ 5.) There were no other passengers in
the Lincoln. (Nakamoto Decl., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff Garen Aklyan had rented the
vehicle from Galpin and entrusted it to his son, the Decedent, a non-authorized
driver in the rental agreement. (Nakamoto Decl., ¶ 6.) As to Ford, the MKZ
manufacturer, Plaintiffs allege that the MKZ was defective in design and
manufacture, and Ford failed to warn consumers about those defects. (Nakamoto
Decl., ¶ 7.) However, the MKZ and its component parts, as designed and
manufactured, were reasonably safe for their foreseeable use and met or
exceeded all applicable standards when it was manufactured. (Nakamoto Decl., ¶
16.) Because Plaintiffs failed to preserve the MKZ after the accident and,
therefore, could not prove any of their defect theories at trial. (Nakamoto
Decl., ¶ 14.) With regard to Ford’s comparative liability, Plaintiffs allege
other defendants also contributed to Decedent’s death and Plaintiffs’ damages.
They allege that Galpin was negligent because it failed to detect, inspect,
maintain, repair, or warn consumers about the alleged defects in the MKZ.
(Nakamoto Decl., ¶ 15.) “With respect to the CalTrans, Plaintiffs assert it was
negligent in (1) constructing, maintaining, and designing the Interstate 5
highway, (2) providing adequate signage, lighting and markings; and (3) in
maintaining the highway in the area where the accident occurred which was
subject to long and continued neglect creating a dangerous condition for drivers
and was a substantial factor in Decedent’s death.” (Nakamoto Decl., ¶ 15.)
According to a Traffic Collision Report, Decedent had also been negligent in
his driving. (Nakamoto Decl., ¶ 5.) Following arm’s length negotiations between
Ford and Plaintiffs, they agreed to settle on or around July 22, 2024.
(Nakamoto Decl., ¶ 4.)
 
With
regard to the fourth Tech-Bilt factor (i.e., financial conditions and
insurance policy limits of settling defendants), Ford’s counsel testifies that
Ford does not dispute that it has sufficient finances to pay more than the
settlement amount in the event a judgment was entered against at trial.
(Nakamoto Decl., ¶ 13.) However, Ford argues that even a disproportionately low
settlement is in good faith where the liability of the party, like Ford’s in
this case, is speculative. 
 
The
Court finds that Ford has met its initial burden of submitting evidence
demonstrating the facts necessary to evaluate the settlement in terms of the Tech-Bilt factors. 
 
Therefore,
the burden of proof shifts to Galpin to demonstrate the settlement lacks good
faith.  
 
Here, Galpin argues that it did not know
the settlement amount and Ford’s failure to provide that amount essentially
prevented the co-defendant from meeting its burden of showing that the
settlement between Ford and Plaintiff was “out of the ballpark.”
 
The
Court notes that in Ford’s moving papers, Ford’s counsel testified that she
communicated the settlement to Galpin and Caltrans. (Nakamoto Decl., ¶ 12.)
 
However, defense counsel for Galpin
testifies under penalty of perjury that “neither [his] client nor [his] office
is aware of the settlement amount between Plaintiffs and FORD. The settling
parties never advised [them] of how much FORD is tendering to the Plaintiffs as
settlement, which co-Defendant FORD MOTORS now contends is ‘proportional’ and
‘within the ballpark’ of FORD’s degree of liability to Plaintiffs.”
(Opposition, Declaration of James J. Perkins, ¶ 2.)
 
Given
the conflicting sworn testimony and the fact that Galpin has the burden of
proving that the settlement lacks good faith, the Court finds it proper to
continue the hearing, require Ford to communicate the settlement amount to
Galpin, and require Galpin to file a supplemental brief addressing its burden
on the Tech-Bilt factors. 
 
For those reasons, the motion for good faith
determination is CONTINUED. 
 
III. MOTION TO SEAL
 
On December 6, 2024, Ford filed the instant
motion to seal, arguing the following. 
 
·       Ford
moves the Court for an order sealing the settlement amount of the
settlement agreement. 
·       There
is an overriding interest in protecting the settling amount from disclosure
because the settling parties expressly agreed to keep that amount confidential.

·       In
addition, the settling parties have a right to privacy in the financial
information contained in the settlement agreement. 
·       The
request to seal is narrowly tailored because Ford is only seeking to restrict
the disclosure of the settlement amount and only to the public at large. 
·       No
less restrictive means exist to keep the settlement amount confidential because
if the settlement agreement is not sealed, that will be in direct contravention
of the parties’ desire to keep the settlement amount confidential. 
·       For
those reasons, the Court should grant the motion to seal and order that all
documents that disclose the settlement amount and distribution of funds,
including but not limited to the Settlement Agreement, and all communications
made to the Court during the good faith determination hearings concerning the
amount of the settlement, be sealed indefinitely.
 
In opposition, Galpin makes the following
arguments. 
 
·       Galpin
objects and opposes the motion to seal based on the Court of Appeal holding in Mediplex.
(See Mediplex, supra, 34 Cal.App.4th at p. 752 [“a party may not
both seek confirmation of a settlement agreement and withhold it from
nonsettling defendants on the grounds of confidentiality”].)
·       In
addition, Ford has failed to show any overriding interest justifying sealing
the settlement agreement. Ford’s conclusory arguments regarding Plaintiffs’ right
to privacy are insufficient. 
·       For
those reasons, the Court should deny the motion to seal. 
 
In reply, Ford contends the following. 
 
·       Galpin
has been informed of the settlement amount as discussed in the reply in support
of the motion for good faith determination. 
·       Galpin
argues that the settlement amount is relevant for the purposes of assessing a
potential offset. However, under California law, offsets are governed by
California Code of Civil Procedure section 877, and according to federal
district court cases, offsets can be determined after trial without making the
settlement agreement part of the public record. 
·       Galpin
has not articulated any meritorious argument as to why the Ford and Plaintiffs’
settlement agreement should be in the public domain. 
·       For
those reasons, the Court should grant the motion to seal. 
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
“Unless confidentiality is required by law,
court records are presumed to be open” to the public. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 2.550(c).) 
 
A court order is required for any court
record to be sealed. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551(a) [“A record must not be
filed under seal without a court order. The court must not permit a record to
be filed under seal based solely on the agreement or stipulation of the
parties”].) 
 
“The court may order that a record be filed
under seal only if it expressly finds facts that establish:
 
(1)  
There exists an overriding interest that
overcomes the right of public access to the record;
(2)  
The overriding interest supports sealing the
record;
(3)  
A substantial probability exists that the
overriding interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed;
(4)  
The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored;
and
(5)   No
less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.” 
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d).) 
 
If the court fails to make the required
findings, the order is deficient and cannot support sealing. (Overstock.com,
Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.) 
 
“An order sealing the record must: ¶ (A)
Specifically state the facts that support the findings; and ¶ (B) Direct the
sealing of only those documents and pages, or, if reasonably practicable,
portions of those documents and pages, that contain the material that needs to
be placed under seal. All other portions of each document or page must be
included in the public file.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (3).) 
 
A.      Discussion
Notwithstanding the Court’s continuance of the motion for
good faith settlement, the Court finds it proper to grant the motion to seal
the settlement amount of the settlement agreement for the following reasons. 
 
First, courts have found that “a binding contractual
agreement not to disclose” satisfies the first two requirements of rule
2.550(d). (See Universal City Studios, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 110
Cal.App.4th 1273, 1283  (“Universal
City Studios”) [finding that the defendant had identified a potential
overriding interest, a binding contractual agreement not to disclose, that
supported sealing the order at issue in that case].)
 
Therefore, the Court finds that Ford has satisfied the
first two requirements of rule 2.550(d) by providing evidence that the settling
parties agreed to keep the settlement amount confidential. (See Settlement
Agreement, Section 13.0 [“In consideration of RELEASEE'S agreement to expedite
the payment of the monies set forth on Exhibit ‘A’ and other consideration
contained herein, the sufficiency and full and satisfactory performance of
which is hereby acknowledged and agreed, RELEASORS agree to keep the amount of
the settlement confidential, and not talk about, write about, or otherwise publicize
or disclose at any time the financial terms of this Agreement, or any fact
concerning its negotiation, execution, or implementation. However, nothing
contained in this paragraph shall prohibit any party or attorney from
disclosing either the existence or the terms of the Agreement to their
respective insurance carriers, accountants, financial planners, or to the court
in furtherance of the legal process or as otherwise required by a legal duty or
obligation owed by RELEASORS, or disclosing the existence or the terms of this
Agreement to others with the prior written consent of RELEASEE. However, with
respect to the court, the parties agree to submit the financial terms under
seal or by other appropriate means as required by the court, if necessary”].)
 
The Court also finds that Ford has shown the proposed
sealing is narrowly tailored (rule 2.550(4)) and there are no less restrictive
means to achieve the overriding interest (rule 2.550(5)). It is this Court’s
understanding that Ford only seeks to seal the settlement amount, not the
entire settlement agreement. In addition, no less restrictive means to achieve
the overriding interest exists because if the amount of the settlement is not
sealed, then the parties will be unable to comply with their contractual
obligation not to disclose the amount. 
 
Accordingly, the remaining question is whether “[a] substantial
probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced if the
record is not sealed ….” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d)(3).)
 
In Universal City Studios, the
California Court of Appeal found that no substantial prejudice to a contractual
obligation not to disclose had been proven because the document to be sealed
had already been heavily redacted to remove all references to financial data. (Universal
City Studios, supra, 110 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1283-1284.)
 
Here, the settlement amount in the settlement
agreement has not been redacted. Therefore, if it is not sealed, a substantial
probability exists that the overriding interest to maintain the contractual
obligation not to disclose the settlement amount will be prejudiced. 
 
In its opposition, Galpin has not made any
argument showing that Ford has failed to satisfy the requirements in California
Rules of Court, rule 2.550(d). 
 
For those reasons, the Court finds it proper
to grant Ford’s motion to seal the settlement amount in the Ford-Plaintiffs
settlement agreement. 
 
III. DISPOSITION
 
The Motion for Good Faith Settlement
Determination is CONTINUED to Wednesday, January 29, 2025, at 8:30 AM, Dept.
73, Stanley Mosk Courthouse. Defendant Ford Motor Company is ordered to
communicate the settlement amount to Defendant Galpin Jaguar Lincoln-Mercury, Inc. d/b/a
Galpin Premier Collection. At least five (5) court days before the next
hearing, Defendant Galpin Jaguar Lincoln-Mercury, Inc. d/b/a Galpin Premier
Collection is ordered to file and serve a supplemental brief or declaration addressing
its burden on the Tech-Bilt factors. 
 
The Motion to Seal is GRANTED. The Court
orders the settlement amount of the settlement agreement entered by Defendant
Ford Motor Company and Plaintiffs Garen Aklyan, individually and as
successor-in-interest to Arthur Aklyan, and Yelena Malkhasyan to be placed
under seal. 

 