 Case Number:  23CHCV01561    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2023    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 12/11/23
Case #23CHCV01561
 
DEMURRER TO THE
FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer filed 7/26/23.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Stewart
Silver and Oceans 11 RV Park, LLC dba Cali Lake RV Resort

RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Peter Farkas
NOTICE: ok
 
Demurrer is to the entire First Amended Complaint: 
            1.  Breach of
Implied Warranty of Habitability
            2. 
Negligence
            3. 
Negligent Hiring
            4. 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
            5. 
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
            6. 
Violation of Bane Act (Civil Code 52.1)
            7. 
Private Nuisance

 
RULING: The demurrer is overruled, in part, and
sustained with 30 days leave to amend, in part. 

 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of Plaintiff Peter Farkas’
(Plaintiff) rental of the recreational room (Room) at an RV park owned by Defendants
Stewart Silver (Silver) and Oceans 11 RV Park, LLC dba Cali Lake RV Resort
(CLRR) (collectively, Defendants). 
Plaintiff contends that Defendants improperly converted the room into a
dwelling unit and he rented it as such. 
In the demurrer, Defendants contend that they rented the Room to Farkas
for storage purposes only and he and his friend began to reside in the unit in
violation of the agreement.  
 
On 5/26/23, Plaintiff filed this action against
Defendants.  On 6/22/23, Plaintiff filed
the operative First Amended Complaint against Defendants alleging causes of
action for: (1) Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability; (2) Negligence; (3)
Negligent Hiring; (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (5) Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress; (6) Violation of Bane Act (Civil Code 52.1)
and (7) Private Nuisance.
 
On 7/26/23, Defendants filed the instant demurrer to the
entire First Amended Complaint.  No proof
of service for the demurer has been filed; however, on 10/16/23, Plaintiff
filed and served an opposition to the demurrer which cured any defect in
notice.  There is also no evidence before
the Court that Defendants met and conferred with Plaintiff before filing the
instant demurrer as is required.  See
CCP 430.41(a).  Since the failure to meet
and confer is not grounds to overrule a demurrer and because the demurrer is
opposed, the Court will rule on the merits at this time.  See CCP 430.41(a)(4).
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer may be based on the grounds that a complaint
fails to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of action and/or is
uncertain, among other things.  See
CCP 430.10(e), (f).  
 
Defendants’ claim that the entire First Amended Complaint
is uncertain because there is no distinction between the defendants in the
causes of action is without merit.  Each
cause of action is alleged against “All Defendants.”  The allegations against the only two named
Defendants, Silver and CLRR, are not so uncertain that these Defendants cannot
respond.  
 
1st cause of action – Breach of Implied
Warranty of Habitability
 
Defendants’ only argument as to the Breach of Implied
Warranty of Habitability cause of action is that such a claim will fail because
the property is commercial, not residential. 
The material facts alleged in the First Amended Complaint must be
accepted as true on demurrer.  Serrano
(1971) 5 C3d 584, 591; 290 Division (EAT), LLC (2022) 86 CA5th 439,
452.  The First Amended Complaint alleges
sufficient facts, which must be accepted as true at this stage in the
proceedings, to support a finding that Defendants
improperly converted the Room into a dwelling unit and rented it to Plaintiff as
such.  (See FAC ¶¶7-11,
20-22).  The foregoing coupled with the
other allegations in the First Amended Complaint are sufficient to state a
claim for breach of implied warranty of habitability.    
 
2nd cause of action – Negligence
 
The elements of a negligence cause of action are: (2)
defendant owed a duty of care to plaintiff, (3) defendant breached such duty
and (4) the breached caused injury or damage to plaintiff.  See Civil Code 1714(a).  With regard to the negligence cause of
action, Defendants argue that the claim fails because the allegations of
damages are conclusory and contradict other allegations in the First Amended
Complaint, without specifying the other allegations which are purportedly
contradicted.  A negligence claim may be
generally pled.  The Rutter Group
California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial, Pleadings, Section
6:129.  The allegations in the First
Amended Complaint are sufficient to put Defendants on notice of the basis of
Plaintiffs’ negligence claim against them. 
Doe (2007) 42 C4th 531, 549-550. 

 
3rd cause of action – Negligent Hiring,
Retention and Supervision
 
The elements of a negligent hiring, retention and
supervision cause of action are: (1) defendant hired an employee, (2) the employee was unfit or incompetent to perform the work
for which they were hired, (3) defendants knew or should have known that the
employee was unfit or incompetent and that their unfitness or incompetence
created a particular risk to others; (4) the employee’s unfitness or
incompetence harmed plaintiff; and (5) the employer defendant’s negligence in
hiring, supervising, or retaining the employee was a substantial factor in
causing plaintiff’s harm.  CACI 426. 
 
Plaintiff has failed to allege sufficient facts to
support each of the elements of the claim. 
Plaintiff  alleges that in
responding to certain of Plaintiff’s requests for maintenance “Defendants sent
unlicensed individuals to attempt to make repairs.  The unlicensed individuals failed to make any
of the needed repairs.”  (FAC¶11).  Plaintiff has failed to allege facts to show
that a license was required to meet his maintenance requests, that the
unlicensed individuals were Defendants’ employees, that an employee for
Defendants was unfit or incompetent to perform the work for which they were
hired, that Defendants knew of should have known that an employee/individual
was unfit or incompetent and that their unfitness or incompetence created a
particular risk to others; the employee’s unfitness or incompetence harmed
plaintiff; and/or Defendants’ alleged negligence in hiring, supervising, or
retaining the employee was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  
 
Plaintiff also makes vague allegations regarding
Defendants’ alleged failure to “properly hire, screen, train, and/or supervise
those members of their team to carry out their duties in a manner that was
well-trained, orderly, and/or competent.” 
(FAC ¶33).  Plaintiffs fail to
specify which “members” of Defendants’ “team” committed any offensive conduct
to support this cause of action.  As
such, the 3rd cause of action is insufficiently pled.  
 
4th cause of action – Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
The elements of a cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the
defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff suffered severe
or extreme emotional distress; and (3) the plaintiff’s injuries were actually
and proximately caused by the defendant's outrageous conduct.  Berkley (2007) 152 CA4th 518, 533.
 
Plaintiff’s allegation that Silver, who is alleged to be
an agent of CLRR, sent “an armed individual, acting as his agent, to the
Subject Property in an attempt to cause fear and intimidation” in response to
Plaintiff’s complaints about the property are sufficiently outrageous to
support the claim.  (See FAC ¶¶13,
38).  However, Plaintiff has not pled any
facts to support the conclusion that he suffered the type of severe or extreme
emotional distress to support the cause of action.  (FAC ¶40). 
  
 
5th cause of action – Negligent Infliction
of Emotional Distress
 
Negligent infliction of emotional distress is not a
separate tort, but rather a species of negligence.  Marlene F. (1989) 48 C3d 583, 588; Barker
(2015) 240 CA4th 333, 356-357.  Plaintiff
has failed to establish that he may plead this claim separately from his
negligence cause of action.  
 
6th cause of action – Violation of the Bane
Act (Civil Code 52.1)
 
To state a claim under the Bane Act, a plaintiff must allege:
(1) that by threats, intimidation or coercion, the defendant caused plaintiff
to reasonably believe that if they exercised a right, defendant would commit
violence against them or their property and that defendant had the apparent
ability carry out the threats or that the defendant acted violently against the
plaintiff and plaintiff’s property to prevent them from exercising a right and/or
to retaliate against plaintiff for having exercised their right; (2) that the defendant
intended to deprive plaintiff of their enjoyment of the interests protected by
the right; (3) that the plaintiff was harmed; and (4) that the defendant’s
conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff's harm.  See Civil Code 52.1. 
 
Plaintiff has alleged that in response to his complaints about
the property Defendant Silver sent “an armed
individual, acting as his agent, to the Subject Property in an attempt to cause
fear and intimidation.”  (FAC ¶13).  Plaintiff has also alleged the defendants
were agents of one another.  (FAC ¶5).  Such allegations, which must be accepted as
true on demurrer, are incorporated into the 6th cause of
action.  (FAC ¶47).  As such, the claim is sufficiently pled.  
 
7th cause of action – Private Nuisance
 
A private nuisance interferes with the use and enjoyment
of plaintiff’s private property.  Friends
of H Street (1993) 20 CA4th 152-162; Adams 224 CA4th 610.  The elements of a nuisance claim are: (1)
interference with use and enjoyment of plaintiff's property that is (2)
substantial and (3) unreasonable.  Mendez
(2016) 3 CA5th 248, 262-263.  Plaintiff
has failed to allege what specific conduct of Defendants allegedly constitutes
a private nuisance.  (FAC ¶53).     
 
CONCLUSION
 
The demurrer is overruled as to the 1st, 2nd,
and 6th causes of action and sustained with 30 days leave to amend
as to the 3rd, 4th, 5th and 7th
causes of action.  
 
 
 
 
 