 Case Number:  23STCV29607    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MARIA CASTELLANOS, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ACTIVE LIFE, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV29607
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO COMPEL
  ARBITRATION
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
January 7, 2025



 
On December 4, 2023, Plaintiff
Maria Castellanos filed this action against Defendants Active Life, LLC, and
Aston Carter, Inc.  On February 29, 2024,
Plaintiff filed her First Amended Complaint (FAC) against Defendants.  The FAC alleges (1) discrimination on the
basis of sex/gender, including pregnancy, in violation of FEHA; (2) harassment
on the basis of sex/gender, including pregnancy, in violation of FEHA; (3)
failure to provide reasonable accommodation in violation of FEHA; (4) violation
of California’s Pregnancy Disability Leave Laws; (5) failure to prevent
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation in violation of FEHA; (6) wrongful
termination of employment in violation of public policy; and (7) intentional
infliction of emotional distress.
On
May 23, 2024, Defendant Aston Carter, Inc., (Defendant) filed a motion to
compel arbitration.  Plaintiff opposes
Defendant’s motion.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
Defendant
has requested that the Court take judicial notice of the arbitration agreements
and minute orders granting motions to compel arbitration in 16 other cases.  The Court grants Defendant’s request.
DISCUSSION
When seeking to compel
arbitration of a plaintiff’s claims, the defendant must allege the existence of
an agreement to arbitrate.  (Condee v.
Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)  The burden then shifts to the plaintiff to
prove the falsity of the agreement.  (Ibid.)  After the Court determines that an agreement
to arbitrate exists, it then considers objections to its enforceability.  (Ibid.)
The Court must grant a
petition to compel arbitration unless the defendant has waived the right to
compel arbitration or if there are grounds to revoke the arbitration agreement.  (Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)  Under California law and the Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”), an arbitration agreement may be invalid based upon
grounds applicable to any contract, including unconscionability, fraud, duress,
and public policy.  (Sanchez v.
Western Pizza Enterprises, Inc. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 154, 165-166.)
A.        Existence of an Arbitration Agreement
Has Been Established
Plaintiff
was employed by Defendant Aston Carter, Inc., and was assigned to work at
Active Life as a Patient Care Coordinator from September 15, 2022, to December
10, 2022.  (Durham Decl. ¶ 4.)  Defendant contends that Plaintiff
electronically signed a Mutual Arbitration Agreement on September 5, 2022, in
connection with her employment onboarding process.  (Durham Decl. ¶ 11.)  Defendant provided a copy of the arbitration
agreement.  (Durham Decl., Ex. B
[“Arbitration Agreement”].)  Through the
Arbitration Agreement, Plaintiff agreed that “all disputes, claims, complaints,
or controversies (“Claims”) that I may have against Aston Carter, Inc. and/or
any of its subsidiaries, affiliates, officers, directors, employees, agents,
and/or any of its clients or customers (collectively and individually the “Company”),
or that the Company may have against me, including contract claims; tort
claims; discrimination and/or harassment claims; retaliation claims; claims for
wages, compensation, penalties or restitution; and any other claim under any
federal, state, or local statute, constitution, regulation, rule, ordinance, or
common law, arising out of and/or directly or indirectly related to my
application for employment with the Company, and/or my employment with the
Company, and/or the terms and conditions of my employment with the Company,
and/or termination of my employment with the Company (collectively “Covered
Claims”), are subject to confidential arbitration pursuant to the terms of this
Agreement and will be resolved by Arbitration and NOT by a court or jury. The
parties hereby forever waive and give up the right to have a judge or a jury
decide any Covered Claims.”  (Durham
Decl., Ex. B, p. 1.)  The Arbitration
Agreement is electronically signed by Plaintiff and a representative of the
company using a plain font. (Durham Decl., Ex. B., p. 3.)
Plaintiff
argues that she does not remember seeing or signing the Arbitration Agreement
because if she had seen it, she would not have agreed to it.  (Opposition at pp. 3-8.)  Plaintiff claims that she had no idea that
she was signing an arbitration agreement with the onboarding documents, and she
claims that she felt rushed to return the signed documents.  (Castellanos Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.)  Plaintiff declares that she has no
recollection of agreeing to arbitrate and that she has never seen the
arbitration agreement attached as Exhibit B to the Durham Declaration.  (Castellanos Decl. ¶¶ 6, 8.)
When
a plaintiff does not recall signing or agreeing to an electronic agreement, the
defendant has the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence that an electronic
signature or acceptance is authentic, i.e., that it was the act of the plaintiff.  (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014)
232 Cal.App.4th 836, 846.)  “[A] party may
establish that the electronic signature was ‘the act of the person’ by presenting
evidence that a unique login and password known only to that person was required
to affix the electronic signature, along with evidence detailing the procedures
the person had to follow to electronically sign the document and the accompanying
security precautions.”  (Bannister v. Marinidence
Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 545.)
With
its reply, Defendant provided a supplemental declaration from Brandi Durham, who
is the Employee Relations Manager for Allegis Group, Inc., the parent company
of Defendant Aston Carter, Inc.  (Durham Supp.
Decl. ¶ 2.)  She has personal knowledge
of Aston Carter’s onboarding process and the process by which it obtains
pre-employment electronic paperwork, including the onboarding process used by
Plaintiff Maria Castellanos.  (Durham
Supp. Decl. ¶ 3.)
During
and after Plaintiff’s employment, Aston Carter has used a software system known
as “Onboarding Automation” for its pre-employment electronic paperwork.  (Durham Supp. Decl. ¶ 5.)  Before an individual can complete the hiring
process, they must “register with Onboarding Automation using a personal email
address as the username and password, and complete the new-hire paperwork
online.”  (Durham Supp. Decl. ¶ 6.)  Once an employment offer has been extended, a
member of Aston Carter’s Filed Support Group completes necessary fields in Onboarding
Automation specific to the applicant’s anticipated assignment to initiate a
welcome email, which contains a web-link for Onboarding Automation and is sent
to the applicant’s personal email address that he or she provided to Aston
Carter.  (Durham Supp. Decl. ¶ 6.)  The applicant is the only person who can edit
their onboarding documents and the only person who can access their account
once they have created it.  (Durham Supp.
Decl. ¶ 6.)  Aston Carter’s employees are
not able to see or change the applicant’s password or otherwise log in to the
account.  (Durham Supp. Decl. ¶ 6.)
To
electronically sign a document in Onboarding Automation, an applicant must
check a box that states that “I acknowledge I have read and understand the
materials above,” then the applicant clicks on a button titled “Electronically
Sign,” and this generates an electronic signature on the signature line of the
document.  (Durham Supp. Decl. ¶ 8.)  The date and time stamp next to or below the
signature reflects the date and time that the applicant electronically signed
the document.  (Durham Supp. Decl. ¶ 8.)  The generation of an electronic signature
prompts the next document in the queue to appear, and documents cannot be
skipped without being acknowledged or signed. 
(Durham Supp. Decl. ¶ 8.)
Once
an applicant signs the onboarding forms, they are submitted for review and are
locked and cannot be edited.  (Durham
Supp. Decl. ¶ 9.)  At no time can anyone
access or edit the applicant’s signature line. 
(Durham Supp. Decl. ¶ 9.)  The
green box at the bottom of the Arbitration Agreement that states when the
Arbitration Agreement was signed is only generated when the applicant signs the
document.  (Durham Supp. Decl. ¶ 9.)  
The
AG Onboarding number in the bottom corner of the Arbitration Agreement reflects
the applicant’s information number and business identification number.  (Durham Supp. Decl. ¶ 11.)  The date next to the number reflects when an
employee accessed the document after it was signed by the applicant.  (Durham Supp. Decl. ¶ 12.)
Durham
states that on the date Plaintiff signed the onboarding documents, she
completed and electronically signed 15 documents, including the Arbitration
Agreement.  (Durham Supp. Decl. ¶ 16.)  Durham maintains that no one edited
Plaintiff’s onboarding documents between the time Plaintiff signed them and
submitted them for review.  (Durham Supp.
Decl. ¶ 17.)
Durham
finishes by stating that the security procedures in the onboarding process,
including the use of a personal email address and confidential password
selected by and only known to Plaintiff, the fact that only Plaintiff could
access her onboarding documents prior to submitting them (and once she
submitted them her signature lines were locked), and the highly factual and
detailed personal and biographical information collected during the onboarding
process in the other documents, leads Durham to conclude that only Plaintiff
could have electronically signed the Arbitration Agreement on September 5,
2022.  (Durham Supp. Decl. ¶ 19.)
Defendant
has shown that Plaintiff used a unique login and password known only to her in
order to sign the Arbitration Agreement, and the electronic signature could only
be the act of Plaintiff.  If Plaintiff
did not read the pages before she checked the box to sign the document, that is
still not a basis for deny arbitration.  “‘[I]t
is generally unreasonable . . . to neglect to read a written agreement before signing
it.’”  (Sanchez v. Valencia Holding Co.,
LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 914-915; Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle
Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236 [“An arbitration clause
within a contract may be binding on a party even if the party never actually read
the clause”].)  
Defendant
has satisfied its burden of showing the existence of an agreement to arbitrate.
B.        Armendariz Factors Are
Satisfied
Arbitration
agreements for FEHA claims must (1) provide for neutral arbitrators, (2) provide
for more than minimal discovery, (3) require a written award, (4) provide for all
of the types of relief that would otherwise be available in court, and (5) not require
employees to pay either unreasonable costs or any arbitrators’ fees or expenses
as a condition of access to the arbitration forum.  (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102.) 
These requirements may apply to non-FEHA employment claims.  (See Pinela v. Neiman Marcus Group, Inc.
(2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 227, 254 [applying the Armendariz factors in the context
of claims under the Labor Code].)
The
Arbitration Agreement provides for arbitration with JAMS in accordance with the
JAMS Employment Arbitration Rules and Procedures.  JAMS’s Employment Arbitration Rules and
Procedures provide for discovery.  (Kun
Decl., Ex. D.)  The arbitrator will have
authority to award all remedies that would be available in court, and the
arbitrator will issue a final and binding written award, subject to review on
the grounds set forth in the FAA.  Defendant
will pay all arbitrator’s fees and costs beyond what would normally be incurred
in court.
Accordingly,
the arbitration agreement satisfies Armendariz.
C.        Procedural Unconscionability Has Not
Been Established
For
an arbitration agreement to be unenforceable as unconscionable, both procedural
and substantive unconscionability must be present.  (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 114.)  “[T]he more substantively oppressive the contract
term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the
conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.”  (Ibid.)
“The
relevant factors in assessing the level of procedural unconscionability are oppression
and surprise.”  (Orcilla v. Big Sur, Inc.
(2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 982, 997.)  “‘The oppression
component arises from an inequality of bargaining power of the parties to the contract
and an absence of real negotiation or a meaningful choice on the part of the weaker
party.’”  (Abramson v. Juniper Networks,
Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 638, 656.) 
“The circumstances relevant to establishing oppression include, but are not
limited to (1) the amount of time the party is given to consider the proposed contract;
(2) the amount and type of pressure exerted on the party to sign the proposed contract;
(3) the length of the proposed contract and the length and complexity of the challenged
provision; (4) the education and experience of the party; and (5) whether the party’s
review of the proposed contract was aided by an attorney.”  (Grand Prospect Partners, L.P. v. Ross Dress
for Less, Inc. (2015) 232 Cal.App.4th 1332, 1348, fn. omitted.)  “The component of surprise arises when the challenged
terms are ‘hidden in a prolix printed form drafted by the party seeking to enforce
them.’”  (Ibid.)  “The adhesive nature of the employment contract
requires [the court] to be ‘particularly attuned’ to [Plaintiff’s] claim of unconscionability
[citation], but [the court] do[es] not subject the contract to the same degree of
scrutiny as ‘[c]ontracts of adhesion that involve surprise or other sharp practices’
[citation].”  (Baltazar v. Forever 21,
Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1245 (Baltazar).) 
1.         Contract of Adhesion
Plaintiff
argues that the arbitration agreement was presented on a take it or leave it
basis because there was no option to skip the onboarding documents and she did
not know that she could refuse to sign any of the onboarding documents.  (Opposition at pp. 8-9.)  Arbitration agreements that are “take it or leave
it” have some degree of procedural unconscionability.  (Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012) 203
Cal.App.4th 771, 796.)  However, other than Plaintiff stating that
she did not know that she could refuse to sign the Arbitration Agreement, the Arbitration
Agreement appears to have been voluntary. 
The first sentence of the Agreement states that “I…voluntarily agree
that…” (Durham Decl., Ex. B, p. 1.)  Even
if it were not voluntary because the document was not skippable, “a compulsory
predispute arbitration agreement is not rendered unenforceable just because it
is required as a condition of employment or offered as a ‘take it or leave it
basis.’” (Lagatree v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps (1999) 74
Cal.App.4th 1105, 1129.)  
Additionally, an arbitration agreement being
presented as an adhesion contract does not, by itself, make the arbitration
agreement unenforceable where the plaintiff has not shown that the agreement is
also substantively unconscionable.  (24
Hour Fitness, Inc. v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4h 1199, 1212-1213.)  Here, as mentioned below, Plaintiff has made
no attempt to argue that the Arbitration Agreement is substantively
unconscionable.
Accordingly, the Arbitration Agreement is not procedurally
unconscionable on the basis of any alleged contract of adhesion.
            2.         Oppression
and Surprise
Plaintiff cannot establish oppression.  She cannot claim that she attempted to
negotiate the terms of the Arbitration Agreement because she claims that she
was not even aware that her onboarding forms included the Arbitration
Agreement.  (Opposition at p. 9.)  Furthermore, she has not presented evidence
that the Agreement was presented to her in a way that would make her feel
compelled to agree to it in particular.  She
claims that she felt rushed to return the signed paperwork so that she would
not lose her job (Castellanos Decl. ¶ 4), but there is no evidence that this
fear was well-grounded or based on any influence from her employer. 
Plaintiff has not established surprise because she did
not address this issue in her opposition.
Accordingly, Plaintiff has not established
oppression or surprise in relation to the Arbitration Agreement, so she has not
established procedural unconscionability.           
D.        Substantive Unconscionability Has Not
Been Established
“‘Substantive
unconscionability pertains to the fairness of an agreement’s actual terms and to
assessments of whether they are overly harsh or one-sided.  [Citations.] 
A contract term is not substantively unconscionable when it merely gives
one side a greater benefit; rather, the term must be “so one-sided as to ‘shock
the conscience.’”’  [Citation.]’”  (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 85.)
Plaintiff
does not argue that there was any substantive unconscionability in the
Arbitration Agreement.
Because
Plaintiff has not established procedural and substantive unconscionability, the
Arbitration Agreement is enforceable.
CONCLUSION
The
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. 
The entire action is STAYED pending the arbitration.  A Status Conference re: Arbitration is
scheduled for ___________ at 8:30 AM in Department 48 at Stanley Mosk
Courthouse.  Five court days before, the
parties are to file a joint report stating the name of their retained
arbitrator and the status of arbitration.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit.  If all parties in the case submit on the
tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are required unless a
companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference) is also on
calendar.
       
 Dated this 7th day of January
2025




 


 
 




 


Hon. Thomas D.
  Long
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 