 Case Number:  24STCV02800    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



NICHOLAS LEINBACH, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
BETTER EARTH, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 24STCV02800
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING DEFENDANTS’
  DEMURRER IN PART; DENYING DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
January 7, 2025



 
On
February 2, 2024, Plaintiff Nicholas Leinbach filed a complaint against defendants
Better Earth, Inc.; Zain Jan; Shaun Sharabi; Trace Rucarean; Patrick Butler;
Michael Cavaleri; and Jeremy Nicholson. 
On
May 10, 2024, Defendants filed a demurrer and motion to strike.
DEMURRER
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of
action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) 
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai
Medical Center (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)  “Because a
demurrer challenges defects on the face of the complaint, it can only refer to
matters outside the pleading that are subject to judicial notice.”  (Arce
ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471,
556.) 
A.               
The Parties Sufficiently Met
and Conferred
Based on Defendant’s counsel’s
declaration, the parties adequately met and conferred on both the demurrer and
motion to strike. (Decl. Raja, ¶¶ 3-12; Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a);
Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) 
B.                
Defendant’s Argument
About Breach of Contract Is Moot
Defendants
argue that because employment is based on the contractual relationship between
employers and employees and Plaintiff alleges that he is an employee, Plaintiff
had to allege whether the employment contracts were written, oral, or implied
by conduct. Plaintiff did not. 
Defendant’s
argument is moot. The court treats the demurrer as admitting all material facts
properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or
law. (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152
Cal.App.4th 518, 525 (Berkley).)
Here, Plaintiff did not plead a breach of contract action. Thus, arguments
about breach of contract are moot. 
C.
       Plaintiff Specifically Pleaded the
Misrepresentations Made, But Did Not Adequately Plead Justifiable Reliance 
Defendants
argue that the fraud cause of action is not pleaded with the required particularity,
specifically the representations made. Plaintiff alleges that defendant Better
Earth promised Plaintiff in writing that he would be entitled to commissions
for all completed sales according to the terms of his offer letter. (Compl., ¶ 77.)
Plaintiff also alleges that Defendant intentionally misrepresented, both in
recruiting advertisements and during Plaintiff’s employment interview, a
reasonably expected level of compensation for someone hired into Plaintiff’s
position. (Compl., ¶ 85.)   
The Court finds that Plaintiff adequately pleaded the
representations made. In fraud, the requirement of specificity is relaxed when
the allegations indicate that the defendant must know about the facts of the
controversy. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.
App. 4th 153, 158.) The exception is applicable here because defendants issued
Plaintiff the offer letter, made the recruiting advertisements, and interviewed
Plaintiff. 
Defendants also argue that Plaintiff did not justifiably rely on
the representations made. Plaintiff alleges that he reasonably relied on the
promise of payment upon completion of sales. (Compl., ¶ 79.) 
Plaintiff did not adequately plead justifiable reliance. Justifiable
reliance is subjective. (Public Employees’ Retirement System v. Moody’s Investors
Service, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 643, 673.) Generally, a plaintiff will
be denied recovery only if his conduct is clearly unreasonable considering his
own intelligence or information. (Ibid.) It must appear that he put
faith in representations that were “preposterous” or shown by facts within his
observation to be so patently and obviously false that he must have closed his
eyes to avoid discovery of the truth. (Ibid.) Here, Plaintiff did not
plead enough facts to support that the reliance was justified. 
Thus,
the demurrer is sustained as to the two fraud causes of action. 
D.
       Plaintiff Did Not Adequately
Plead Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy 
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff did not adequately plead intolerable working conditions or
a public policy violation. Plaintiff alleges that defendants discharged him and
terminated his employment. (Compl, ¶¶ 72, 73.) Plaintiff also alleges that in
discharging Plaintiff, defendants were motivated by Plaintiff’s entitlement to
payment on all earned commissions and their promised enjoyment of the benefit
of the bargain. (Compl, ¶ 72.)
Plaintiff
adequately pleaded defendants discharged him. To establish a constructive
discharge, an employee must plead and prove that the employer either
intentionally created or knowingly permitted working conditions that were so
intolerable or aggravated at the time of the employee’s resignation that a
reasonable employer would realize that a reasonable person in the employee’s
position would be compelled to resign.” (Turner v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc.
(1994) 7 Cal.4th 1238, 1251.) As a general matter, there must be a “continuous
pattern” of “unusually aggravated” “adverse working conditions,” as “isolated
acts of misconduct are insufficient to support a constructive discharge claim.”
(Id. at p. 1247.) But here, contrary to what defendants claim,
Plaintiff pleads actual discharge, not constructive discharge. 
Plaintiff
did not adequately plead violation of public policy because Plaintiff only
alleges a personal and proprietary interest, i.e. that of payment to him. To maintain a claim, the employee must have been wronged in a way
that affects more than the employee's immediate self-interest. (Scott v.
Phoenix Schools, Inc. (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th
702, 713.)
Thus, the demurrer is sustained as to this cause of action. Plaintiff
has not identified how he would amend this cause of action and so leave to
amend is not granted. 
E.        Plaintiff Has
Not Adequately Alleged a Claim for Unpaid Wages
            Defendants argue that a cause of
action for nonpayment of wages requires Plaintiff to allege the amount of
unpaid wages that are purportedly owed and facts showing liability in damages.
Plaintiff alleges he is owed unpaid minimum wages, unpaid overtime wages,
unpaid meal break premiums, unpaid rest break premiums, and unpaid commissions.
(Compl., ¶ 92.)
            Plaintiff did not plead the amount
of wages owing to him, as required. (Oppenheimer v. Robinson (1957) 150
Cal. App. 2d 420, 423.)
            Thus, the demurrer is sustained as
to this cause of action. 
F.         Defendants’
Argument About FEHA Claims is Moot 
Defendants
argue that plaintiff Blake Grabowski asserted three causes of action against
“BEI” for its purported violations of California’s Fair Employment and Housing
Act. But this demurrer is about the complaint filed by plaintiff Nicholas
Leinbach, as Plaintiff asserts on page one. 
Thus,
Defendants’ arguments are moot. 
MOTION
TO STRIKE
The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California,
a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b).)
Defendants
move to strike the following: (1) allegations regarding Better Earth’s
purported false promises because such allegations are inconsistent with the
exhibit attached to each complaint; (2) allegations regarding the residential
solar industry because they are not relevant; and (3) allegations regarding
aiding and abetting and conspiring.   
The
Court denies the first request because allegations about continued employment
are not necessarily inconsistent with the terms in the letter, the exhibit
attached, about at-will employment. (Nichols v. Canoga Indus. (1978) 83
Cal.App.3d 956, 965.)
The
Court denies the second request because the allegations are pertinent and
supported by the claims made in the complaint. (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10,
subd. (b), (c).) They provide background information. 
The
Court denies the third request because failure to state facts sufficient to
state the cause of action is ground for general demurrer, not a motion to
strike. (Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509, 529.) Defendants
argue that the allegations do not conform to California law. 
Thus,
the motion to strike is denied. 
CONCLUSION
The
demurrer is MOOT in part and SUSTAINED in part. 
Except for the wrongful termination claim, and the issues that are moot,
the demurrer is sustained with 30 days’ leave to amend
The
motion to strike is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  Parties intending
to appear are encouraged to appear remotely and should be prepared to comply with
Dept. 48’s new requirement that those attending court in person wear a surgical
or N95 or KN95 mask.
 
        
Dated this 7th day of January 2025
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 