 Case Number:  24STCV12908    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



TAMEKA RENEE
  CROSLAND, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ALEX R BORDEN,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 24STCV12908
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING DEMURRER 
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
January 7, 2025



 
On May 22, 2024, Plaintiff
Tameka Renee Crosland, in pro per, filed a complaint against Defendant Alex R.
Borden arising from an action to recover possession of personal property.  The complaint, though it has no enumerated
causes of action, states in the heading that it is a complaint in replevin.
On
July 24, 2024, Defendant filed a demurrer to Plaintiff’s entire complaint.  Defendant filed a notice of non-opposition on
December 30, 2024.
REQUESTS FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendant’s
request for judicial notice of the Case Summary/Register of Actions for the
proceeding entitled Estate of James Terry Crosland, III, aka James T Grassland,
III (LASC Case No. 23STPB01325) (“Estate Proceeding”) (Exhibit A); the
Order Appointing Administrator, issued on March 21, 2023, in the Estate
Proceeding (Exhibit B); the Letters of Administration, issued on March 30,
2023, in the Estate Proceeding (Exhibit C); and the Inventory & Appraisal –
Final, filed on June 27, 2024, in the Estate Proceeding (Exhibit D) is granted.
DISCUSSION
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)  “Because a demurrer
challenges defects on the face of the complaint, it can only refer to matters outside
the pleading that are subject to judicial notice.”  (Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health
Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 556.)
A.               
The Complaint is Uncertain
and Fails to State a Cause of Action
In
a replevin action, a complaint is insufficient if it does not “describe the
property sued for with that degree of certainty that an officer may be enabled
to execute the process.” (Welch v. Smith (1873) 45 Cal. 230, 230-231.)  In other words, the complaint must contain a
sufficient enough description of the property that a court can tell what the property
is that is at issue.
In
this case, the complaint does not give a sufficient description of the
property.  The only information given
about the property is that it is in Los Angeles County and is the sum of
$155,000.00, and that Plaintiff is the owner of the property by virtue of a
Living Trust. (Comp., ¶¶ 1-2.)  The
Complaint states that a copy of the Living Trust is attached to the Complaint,
but there is no Living Trust attached to the complaint, only a blank document
that says “Living Trust” at the top of the page. (Comp., ¶ 2.)  Without the alleged Living Trust, Plaintiff’s
complaint also fails to establish her entitlement to the property. 
Defendant’s
demurrer provides a discussion of the Ward Trust, as established by Defendant’s
Request for Judicial Notice.  Defendant
notes that he, as administrator, of the Estate in RJN Exhibit A, received a
distribution from the Ward Trust in the amount of $155,034.71. (RJN, Ex. D.)  Defendant speculates that this could be the
source of the $155,000.00 that Plaintiff seeks to recover, but her complaint
fails to state sufficient facts to establish Plaintiff’s entitlement to that money,
nor does her complaint discuss the Estate Proceeding or Defendant’s role as
administrator.
Because
Plaintiff’s complaint is uncertain and fails to sufficiently describe the
property or her entitlement to it, Defendant’s demurrer is sustained on this
basis.
B.                
Misjoinder of Parties
A
complaint is subject to demurrer where there is a defect or misjoinder of
parties. (CCP § 430.10(e).)  Whether a
defendant is a necessary party depends on whether the plaintiff has a cause of
action against that defendant. (Gill v. Johnson (1932) 125 Cal.App. 296,
300.)
First,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed to indicate in what capacity she has
brought this action.  She does not
indicate whether she has brough this action as an individual or in some
capacity related to the alleged Living Trust.
Next,
Plaintiff has sued Defendant in his individual capacity.  Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed to
establish how he, in his individual capacity, has any relation to or
involvement in obtaining possession of any property that Borden, as
administrator, has marshalled in the Estate Proceeding.  In the complaint, Borden was not named as
Defendant in his capacity as administrator.  He was only named as an individual.
Because
there was a misjoinder of parties, or at the very least a defect in the joinder
of parties, Defendant’s demurrer is sustained on this basis.
C.               
Subject Matter
Jurisdiction Over Estate Assets
A
complaint is subject to demurrer where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading. (CCP § 430.10(a).)  “When two superior courts have concurrent
jurisdiction over the subject matter and all parties involved in litigation,
the first to assume jurisdiction has exclusive and continuing jurisdiction over
the subject matter and all parties involved until such time as all necessarily
related matters have been resolved.” (California Union Ins. Co. v. Trinity
River Land Co. (1980) 105 Cal.App.3d 104, 109.)  “Priority of jurisdiction resides in the
tribunal where process is first served.” (Id.)
Defendant
argues that to the extent that Plaintiff is seeking the funds marshalled by
Borden in his capacity as administrator in the Estate Proceeding, this Court
does not have subject matter jurisdiction over the claims set forth in the
complaint because those assets would be within the jurisdiction of the probate
court where the Estate Proceeding is pending. 
A determination of whether Plaintiff is entitled to assets belonging to
the Estate is best determined in the proceeding concerning the administration
of the estate.
Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer is also sustained on the basis that this Court lacks
subject matter jurisdiction over the proceeding.
D.               
Leave to Amend
Subject
matter jurisdiction is not something that Plaintiff could obtain even if
Plaintiff is given leave to amend her complaint, particularly if this action is
based on a distribution that was made as part of the Estate Proceeding.  Because Plaintiff could not remedy this defect
by amending her complaint, nor has Plaintiff demonstrated that she could amend
her complaint, then the Court will sustain Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s
complaint without leave to amend.
CONCLUSION
The
demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 7th day of January 2025
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 