  Case Number:  20STCV09255    Hearing Date:   January 7, 2025    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE
STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



SOK HUN YUN, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
BAE GUEN SONG, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 20STCV09255
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT EON’S
  MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
January 7, 2025



 
On September 5, 2023, Plaintiffs Sok Hun Yun and
Sun Yung Ahn (“Plaintiffs”) filed a third amended complaint (“TAC”) alleging (1)
Fraudulent Conveyance – Real Property; (2) Accounting; (3) Intentional Infliction
of Emotional Distress; and (4) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress.
On January 30, 2024, the Court sustained Defendants
Jamie Park, Chris Hong, Audrey Jung, Propent Real Estate, Inc., and B&B Investment
Properties, LLC’s demurrer to the second, third, and fourth causes of action in
the TAC without leave to amend. 
On
September 3, 2024, Defendant Eon Escrow, Inc. (“Eon”) filed a motion for summary
judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication. Deborah Koh (“Koh”) was
not included as a moving party in the notice of motion and the motion was not
briefed as though she was a moving party. (Luri v. Greenwald (2003) 107
Cal.App.4th 1119, 1125. (“As a general rule, the trial court may consider only
the grounds stated in the notice of motion but an omission in the notice may be
overlooked if the supporting papers make clear the grounds for the relief
sought. The purpose of these requirements is to cause the moving party to
‘sufficiently define the issues for the information and attention of the
adverse party and the court.’”))  Here
the briefing does not make it clear that Koh is a moving party.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
A.        Plaintiffs’ Objections
Nos. 1-12: 
Overruled.
B.        Defendants’
Objections.
These objections would not impact the court’s
ruling and so the court does not rule on them. 

BACKGROUND FACTS
On
April 18, 2017, Plaintiff filed a personal injury Complaint, bearing case number
BC657933 against Defendants Bae Guen Song and Jung Sook Song (collectively “the
Song Defendants”). (Undisputed Material Fact “UMF” 2.) On September 25, 2019, a
jury verdict was rendered in that case, finding the Song Defendants liable for Plaintiff’s
damages. A monetary judgment was not entered until March 25, 2020 as the result
of a bifurcated trial. (UMF 3.) 
On
December 6, 2019, Eon opened escrow on the Subject Property, on behalf of Defendant
Bae Guen Song. (UMF 4.)
On
December 9, 2019, Koh was assigned as the escrow agent to the transaction. (UMF
5.) As part of the initial seller disclosures, Defendant Bae Guen Song disclosed
a lawsuit involving prior tenants. (UMF 6.) Defendant Bae Guen Song never provided
the case name or number for the pending lawsuit. (UMF 7.) Koh requested all information
pertaining to that lawsuit from Defendant Bae Guen Song. (UMF 8.) Defendant Bae
Guen Song stated that the lawsuit had been taken care of and was of no concern to
the present escrow transaction, and accordingly did not provide any further details.
(UMF 9.)
Koh
requested that Provident Title Company perform a search on the property and Defendant
Bae Guen Song to determine the existence of any judgments, liens or lis pendens
that would affect the transaction. Provident Title Company’s search yielded no such
information. (UMF 10.) 
On
December 27, 2019, Koh then had Defendant Bae Guen Song, Defendant CHRIS WONG Hong
(hereinafter “Defendant Hong”), and Defendant JAMIE Park (hereinafter “Defendant
Park”) execute an amended escrow instruction which reads as follows: 
“Disclosures:
The undersigned parties have both been disclosed of a pending lawsuit mentioned
on the Real Estate Transfer Disclosure Statement dated December 6, 2019. The undersigned
Seller shall hereby and herewith severally and jointly forever indemnity and keep
the undersigned Buyer(s), Agents, Brokers, Eon Escrow, Inc and it's employees and
Provident Title Company harmless and free of all liabilities in regards to these
lawsuit between previous tenant. Buyer(s) is aware and acknowledges no information
about this lawsuit is available. The undersigned Buyer(s) acknowledge and INSTRUCT
Escrow holder and all parties to proceed to close escrow. Parties herein agree to
indemnify, defend and hold Eon Escrow, Inc., its agents, employees and officers
of the corporation, harmless from any liability or loss in connection with this
instruction.”
(UMF
11.)  
Additionally,
on December 30, 2019, Koh had Defendants Song, Hong, and Park execute another amended
escrow instruction which reads as follows: 
“Seller
herein acknowledges and discloses the pending lawsuit mentioned on the Real Estate
Transfer Disclosure statement dated December 6, 2019 has been satisfied. Escrow
holder shall not be concerned with nor held liable for same. Escrow holder is hereby
instructed to close Escrow without any further instructions regarding this matter.
Parties herein agree to indemnify, defend and hold Eon Escrow, Inc., its agents,
employees and officers of the corporation, harmless from any liability or loss in
connection with this instruction.”
(UMF
12.)
On
December 27, 2019, Defendant Bae Guen Song executed a grant deed to transfer the
Subject Property to Defendants Hong and Park. (UMF 13.) The grant deed was notarized
by Koh and recorded by Koh and Eon. (UMF 14.) Escrow officially closed on January
6, 2020, and the subject property was sold. (UMF 15.)  Koh and Eon were not debtors as it relates to
the transfer of the subject property as neither of them ever had any ownership interest
in the Subject Property. (UMF 16.)
On
March 6, 2020, Plaintiffs brought this lawsuit alleging, inter alia, that Eon and
Koh engaged in a fraudulent scheme to transfer the Subject Property. (UMF 17.)
LEGAL STANDARD
For each claim in the complaint, the defendant
moving for adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of proof by showing that
one or more elements of a cause of action cannot be established or that there is
a complete defense to a cause of action. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc.
(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520 (Scalf).)  Then the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf,
supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at p. 1520.)  To establish a triable issue of material fact,
the party opposing the motion must produce “substantial responsive evidence.”  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th
151, 162-163 (Sangster).)
DISCUSSION
Eon
moves for summary judgment as to all four causes of action in the TAC.
In
the alternative, Eon moves for summary adjudication of the following issues: 
ISSUE
NO.1: Plaintiffs are unable to establish their First Cause of Action for Fraudulent
Conveyance - Real Property. 
ISSUE
NO.2: Plaintiffs are unable to establish their Second Cause of Action for Accounting.

ISSUE
NO.3: Plaintiffs are unable to establish their Third Cause of Action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress. 
ISSUE
NO.4: Plaintiffs are unable to establish their Fourth Cause of Action for Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress.
A.        Plaintiffs Are Unable to Establish a
Cause of Action for Fraudulent Conveyance Since Eon Owed No Duty to Plaintiffs.
Eon
seeks summary adjudication of the First Cause of Action for Fraudulent Conveyance
of Real Property under Civil Code section 3439 et. seq. 
Civil
Code section 3439.04 states as follows: 
(a)
A transfer made or obligation incurred by a debtor is voidable as to a creditor,
whether the creditor’s claim arose before or after the transfer was made or the
obligation was incurred, if the debtor made the transfer or incurred the obligation
as follows:
(1) With actual intent to hinder, delay, or defraud any
creditor of the debtor.
(2)
Without receiving a reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the transfer or
obligation, and the debtor either:
(A)
Was engaged or was about to engage in a business or a transaction for which the
remaining assets of the debtor were unreasonably small in relation to the business
or transaction.
(B)
Intended to incur, or believed or reasonably should have believed that the debtor
would incur, debts beyond the debtor’s ability to pay as they became due.
(b)
In determining actual intent under paragraph (1) of subdivision (a), consideration
may be given, among other factors, to any or all of the following:
(1) Whether the transfer or obligation was to an insider.
(2)
Whether the debtor retained possession or control of the property transferred after
the transfer.
(3) Whether the transfer or obligation was disclosed or
concealed.
(4)
Whether before the transfer was made or obligation was incurred, the debtor had
been sued or threatened with suit.
(5) Whether the transfer was of substantially all the debtor’s
assets.
(6) Whether the debtor absconded.
(7) Whether the debtor removed or concealed assets.
(8)
Whether the value of the consideration received by the debtor was reasonably equivalent
to the value of the asset transferred or the amount of the obligation incurred.
(9)
Whether the debtor was insolvent or became insolvent shortly after the transfer
was made or the obligation was incurred.
(10)
Whether the transfer occurred shortly before or shortly after a substantial debt
was incurred.
(11)
Whether the debtor transferred the essential assets of the business to a lienor
that transferred the assets to an insider of the debtor.
(c)
A creditor making a claim for relief under subdivision (a) has the burden of proving
the elements of the claim for relief by a preponderance of the evidence.
(Civ.
Code §3439.04.) 
The
first cause of action alleges that Eon conspired with and/or assisted the Song Defendants,
and Defendants Hong and Park, in executing and completing the fraudulent transfer
of the subject real property by a) Acting as real estate brokers and assisting with
the secret marketing and sale of the subject property; b) Rapidly opening and closing
a secret escrow on the sale of the subject property; c) Notarizing the grant deed
signed by the Song Defendants; and d) Recording the grant deed signed by the Song
Defendants. (See TAC ¶ 65.) Plaintiffs allege that Eon
had actual knowledge of the personal injury lawsuit "because all of the Defendants
discussed this case with each other and were aware of the First Judgment.” (TAC
¶ 50.)
It is undisputed that Eon was
not a debtor as it relates to the transfer of the subject property it never had
any ownership interest in the Subject Property. (UMF 16.) It is also undisputed that Defendant Bae
Guen Song executed a grant deed to transfer the Subject Property to Defendants Hong
and Park. (UMF 13.) Accordingly, Eon argues that it cannot be considered a “Debtor”
since it does not have an ownership interest in the Subject Property, nor can it
be considered an "Insider" under Civil Code section 3439.04 (b)(I) as
the transfer of the Subject Property was not made to or from Eon. Eon argues that
because it was not a debtor or insider, Plaintiffs cannot establish their cause
of action for Fraudulent Conveyance against Eon.
Eon
also argues that it did not owe Plaintiffs any duties pertaining to the Subject
Property beyond following the principals’ instructions that were outlined in the
Escrow Instructions, and as such purported duties serve as the premise for all of
Plaintiffs’ causes of action, all causes of action fail on this basis. To establish
a lack of duty owed to Plaintiffs, Eon offers the following facts and supporting
evidence: 
1.
At the time that Eon and Koh were retained, the principals to the Escrow Instructions
neither specifically informed them about the underlying personal injury lawsuit,
nor about Plaintiffs' alleged equitable lien on the Subject Property. (Koh Decl.
¶ 10.) 
2.
While Plaintiffs claim that Defendants Eon and Koh had actual knowledge of the personal
injury lawsuit merely "because all of the Defendants discussed this case with
each other,” Plaintiffs do not provide any other support for their contention. (TAC
¶ 50.) Further, it is undisputed that no judgment was entered until March 25, 2020,
over two months after the close of escrow. (UMF 3.)
3.
Defendant Bae Guen Song disclosed a lawsuit involving prior tenants. (Koh Decl.
¶ 3.) Defendant Bae Guen Song did not provide the case name, case number or any
substantive details of the case. (Koh Decl. ¶ 4.) Koh then requested all information
pertaining to that lawsuit from Defendant Bae Guen Song. (Koh Decl. ¶ 6.) However,
Song stated that the lawsuit had been taken care of and was of no concern to the
present escrow transaction, and accordingly did not provide any further details.
(Koh Decl. ¶ 7.)
4.
Koh requested that Provident Title Company perform a search on the property and
Defendant Bae Guen Song to determine the existence of any judgments, liens or lis
pendens that would affect the transaction. Provident Title Company's search yielded
no such information. (Koh Decl. ¶ 8.) 
5.
Plaintiffs allege that the Subject Property was worth over $2,000,000 and yet was
sold below market value at $1,720,000. The principals to the Escrow Instructions
neither disclosed the true fair market value of the property nor provided instructions
to Defendants Eon and Koh pertaining to the true fair market value. (Koh Decl. ¶
9). Koh had no knowledge regarding the market value of the property. (Koh Decl.
¶ 9). 
6.
Plaintiffs allege that Eon and Koh "acted intentionally in order to help Defendant
Bae Guen Song liquidate his only asset." (Compl. ¶ 80). Yet, Koh was unaware
that the Subject Property was Defendant Bae Guen Song's only valuable asset. (Koh
Decl. ¶ 5). 
“An
escrow holder has no general duty to police the affairs of its depositors; rather,
an escrow holder's obligations are limited to faithful compliance with [the depositors']
instructions ... Absent clear evidence of fraud, an escrow holder's obligations
are limited to compliance with the parties' instructions.” (Summit Fin. Holdings,
Ltd. v. Cont'l Laws. Title Co. (2002) 27 Cal.4th 705, 711, as modified on denial
of reh'g (May 15, 2002) (Summit).) 
Here,
Eon fulfilled its duty to faithfully comply with the principals’ instructions and
did not owe a further duty to Plaintiffs, nonparties to the escrow. Under Summit,
Eon only owed a duty to the principal seller Defendant Song to comply with his
escrow instructions and owed no further duty to Plaintiffs. Because Plaintiffs were
not a party to the escrow and did not submit escrow instructions to Eon, Eon was
not acting as Plaintiffs’ agent with respect to the transaction. There were no instructions
submitted by Plaintiffs, or to which they were a signatory, with which Eon was obligated
to comply, or which Eon was obligated to carry out with reasonable care in the exercise
of ordinary skill and diligence. Escrow holders like Eon cannot be liable to Plaintiffs,
strangers to the escrow, for injuries allegedly caused by Eon’s faithful following
of the principals' escrow instructions. As Eon followed the principals’ directions
by disclosing the pending lawsuit to the seller and continuing to close escrow,
Eon owed no general duty to Plaintiffs to further police the affairs of its depositors
per Summit.
Further,
even if Eon did owe a duty to Plaintiffs, although Eon was aware of the underlying
lawsuit, there is no evidence that Eon was aware of any collusion or fraud by Defendant
Song that would have adversely affected any party to the escrow. It is also undisputed
that no judgment was entered in the underlying action until March 25, 2020, over
two months after the close of escrow on January 6, 2020, which calls into question
Eon’s alleged intent to aid Defendant Song in allegedly defrauding Plaintiffs. (UMFs
3, 15.) 
Accordingly,
the Court finds that Eon satisfies its initial moving burden of proof by showing
that duty cannot be established for the First Cause of Action for Fraudulent Conveyance
of Real Property under Civil Code section 3439.04. 
The
burden now shifts to Plaintiffs to show that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to the first cause of action by producing substantial responsive evidence showing
that Eon engaged in Fraudulent Conveyance
of Real Property.
Plaintiffs
argue that based on competent evidence before the Court, 1) Eon Escrow never contacted
the title company to inform it about pending litigation (UMF 25-27), 2) did nothing
to ascertain the status of that pending lawsuit (25-33) and 3) relied against common
sense, industry standards, and Fin. Code, § 17404 on Defendant Seller’s statement
that there existed no documents related to that pending action and that it had been
resolved. (UMF 34, 43, 44 and 47).
In
addition to mentioning Financial Code section 17404, Plaintiffs also cite Financial
Code section 17414, which states as follows: 
a)
It is a violation for any person subject to this division or any director, stockholder,
trustee, officer, agent, or employee of any such person to do any of the following:
(1)
... knowingly or recklessly to direct, participate in, or aid or abet in a material
way, any activity which constitutes theft or fraud in connection with any escrow
transaction.
(2)
Knowingly or recklessly make or cause to be made any misstatement or omission to
state a material fact, orally or in writing, in escrow books, accounts, files, reports,
exhibits, statements, or any other document pertaining to an escrow or escrow affairs.
...
(Fin.
Code § 17414.)
In
ruling on a motion for summary judgment, the Court is bound by the issues framed
the complaint. “The pleadings play a key role in a summary judgment motion. ‘The
function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope
of the issues’ and to frame ‘the outer measure of materiality in a summary judgment
proceeding.’” (Hutton v. Fidelity National Title Co. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th
486, 493; Conroy v. Regents of University of California (2009) 45 Cal.4th
1244, 1250 [“The materiality of a disputed fact is measured by the pleadings [citations],
which ‘set the boundaries of the issues to be resolved at summary judgment.’ [Citations.]”].)

“Accordingly,
the burden of a defendant moving for summary judgment only requires that he or she
negate plaintiff’s theories of liability as alleged in the complaint; that is, a
moving party need not refute liability on some theoretical possibility not included
in the pleadings. [Citations.]” (Hutton, supra, 213 Cal.App.4th at p. 493.)
New factual issues presented in opposition to a summary judgment motion should be
considered if the pleading, construed broadly, encompasses them. (Ibid.)
“In making this determination, courts look to whether the new factual issues present
different theories of recovery or rest on a fundamentally different factual basis.”
(Ibid.) In cases that find new factual issues are not encompassed by the
original pleadings, “the plaintiff did not merely elaborate or add further detail
to a claim which was predicated on the same fundamental facts set forth in the complaint.
Rather, there was a complete shift in allegations, usually involving an effort to
premise civil liability on acts or omissions committed at different times or by
different persons than those described in the claim.” (Blair v. Superior Court
(1990) 218 Cal.App.3d 221, 226.) 
Several
cases are instructive on this issue. (See, e.g., Oakland Raiders v. National
Football League (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 621, 646-647 [finding that three additional
claims of how defendant breached its fiduciary duties were not pled or encompassed
by plaintiff’s second cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty and therefore
trial court correctly disregarded them from plaintiff’s opposition to motion for
summary judgment]; but see Blair, supra, 218 Cal.App.3d at p. 226 [finding
that broad allegations of negligent construction and maintenance of highway encompassed
later allegations of negligent placement of highway guard rails, slope of road,
and inadequate warnings signs because they were predicated on the same fundamental
facts].) 
Here, Plaintiffs do not make any allegations in the TAC regarding
Eon’s alleged violations of Financial Code sections 17404 or 17414, nor do they
contend that they have reported such violations to the Commissioner of Financial
Protection and Innovation per the reporting procedures contained in Financial Code
section 17400 et seq. Using the language of Financial Code section 17414,
Plaintiffs argue that “[e]scrow officers are liable as a matter of common law and
statute for failures to communicate facts material to their agency, assisting in
fraud and causing to misstate a fact material to the transaction.” (Opposition,
1:19-21.) These additional claims of how Eon allegedly breached fiduciary duties
owed to Plaintiffs based on violations of Financial Code sections 17404 and 17414
were not pled or encompassed by any of Plaintiffs’ four causes of action. Therefore,
such claims are disregarded from Plaintiffs’ opposition. 
Plaintiffs
concede that “while it is true that as a general principle, the escrow agents are
not obligated to police the parties, the record here demonstrates that Eon Escrow
became aware of the pending litigation involving prior tenants, it helped Defendant
Seller conceal it and in so doing, aided and abetted fraudulent transfer of the
3rd Ave. Property.” (Opposition, 1:22-25.)
The
fraud exception set forth in Summit stands for the proposition that an escrow
holder can be liable to parties to the escrow, not a stranger to the escrow, even
if the escrow holder follows its escrow instructions, if there is clear evidence
that the escrow holder acted fraudulently. (Markowitz v. Fidelity Nat. Title
Co. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 508, 526-528.) As noted above, Plaintiffs were not
a party to the escrow in which Eon was the escrow holder, and Plaintiffs admit that
Eon followed the instructions of the parties to the escrow.  (TAC ¶ 33.) 
Therefore, Eon owed Plaintiffs no duty and cannot be held liable for fraudulent
conveyance as alleged in the first causes of action because the fraud exception
relied on by Plaintiffs does not apply to strangers to the escrow such as Plaintiffs.
Plaintiffs
argue that Eon can still be liable for aiding and abetting Seller Principal’s alleged
fraudulent transfer under Taylor v. S & M Lamp Co., citing the following
rule: “A debtor and those who conspire with him to conceal his assets for the purpose
of defrauding creditors are guilty of committing a tort and each is liable in damages.”
(Taylor v. S & M Lamp Co. (1961) 190 Cal.App.2d 700, 706.)
To
support their aiding and abetting argument, Plaintiffs contend that the evidence
confirms that the escrow of this unlisted sale was rushed (UMF 18), that Koh notarized
the grant deed (UMF 14 and 48) and that Eon Escrow recorded it (UMF 14). Plaintiffs
offer no evidence to support the allegation that the escrow was “rushed” outside
of a citation to the TAC’s conclusory allegations that Eon and Koh conspired with
the Song Defendants by “acting as real estate brokers and assisting with the secret
marketing and sale of the subject property... and rapidly opening and closing a
secret escrow on the sale of the subject property.” (TAC ¶ 65.) Further, Eon and
Koh’s act of notarizing and recording the grant deed alone does not establish clear
evidence of a conspiracy with Defendant Song to conceal his assets for the purpose
of defrauding creditors, as these acts of notarizing and recording do not show that
Eon was aware of any collusion or fraud by Defendant Song. 
Plaintiffs
also argue that, in addition to the conduct alleged in the operative pleading, the
record reflects that Eon aided and abetted the fraudulent transfer by concealing
the fact that the pending lawsuit was not resolved. (UMF 22, 27 and 34.) UMF 22,
cited by Plaintiffs to support this allegation, specifically states that on December
6, 2019, Eon and Koh amended the Seller disclosures to indicate that “there is a
pending lawsuit between previous tenants and landlord.” UMF 22 does not establish
that Eon concealed the fact that the pending lawsuit was not resolved, as the disclosure
clearly stated that the lawsuit was pending. 
Plaintiffs
also argue that Eon aided and abetted the fraudulent transfer by actively assisting
Defendant Song in creating a false affidavit concealing the fact that the pending
lawsuit was not resolved. (UMF 45-59). This affidavit dated December 30, 2019, states
that, “Seller herein acknowledge and disclose the pending lawsuit mentioned on the
Real Estate Transfer Disclosure statement dated December 6, 2019 has been satisfied.
Escrow holder shall not be concerned with nor held liable for same. Escrow holder
is hereby Instructed to close Escrow without any further Instructions regarding
this matter.” (Compendium of Evidence, Ex. E.) However, Plaintiffs offer no clear
evidence to establish that Eon had knowledge that the lawsuit was still pending
as of December 6, 2019, nor that Eon had knowledge that Defendant Song made the
affidavit with fraudulent intent. As discussed above, Eon satisfied its duties in
following the December 6, 2019 amended escrow instructions which explicitly stated
that Eon shall not be concerned with nor held liable for the pending lawsuit and
instructing Eon to close Escrow without any further instructions. Eon owed no further
duty to Plaintiffs at this time. Therefore, Plaintiffs have failed to meet their
burden to establish a triable issue of material fact under the first cause of action
for Fraudulent Conveyance as to Eon. 
Summary
adjudication of the first cause of action is granted as to Defendant Eon.
B.        Plaintiffs Are Unable to Establish
a Cause of Action for Accounting as Eon
Owed
No Duty to Plaintiffs and Had No Relationship With Plaintiffs.
Eon seeks summary adjudication as to the second
cause of action for Accounting.
“A cause of action for accounting requires a showing
of a relationship between the plaintiff and the defendant . . . that requires an
accounting or a showing that the accounts are so complicated they cannot be determined
through an ordinary action at law.”  (Fleet
v. Bank of America N.A. (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1413.)
Eon
contends in its notice of motion that it “did not owe any other duty beyond the
Escrow Instructions, thereby establishing that Plaintiffs’ claims for damages for
fraudulent conveyance, accounting, intentional infliction of emotional distress,
and negligent infliction of emotional distress, alleged against Defendant, are without
merit as a matter of law.” (Notice of Motion for Summary Judgment, 2:19-23.) In
the body of the memorandum of points and authorities, Eon argues that “Plaintiffs'
Complaint fails to show that Defendants Eon and Koh owed any duty beyond the principals'
instructions that were outlined in the Escrow Instructions, which serves as the
premise for each of Plaintiffs' causes of action.” (Motion, 14:5-8.) 
Here,
as discussed above, Eon has established
that it owed no duty to Plaintiffs and accordingly has no relationship with Plaintiffs,
who were strangers to the escrow. However, Plaintiffs argue that Eon provides no
actual argument as to the second cause of action for Accounting in the body of its
memorandum of points and authorities, such that Eon failed to satisfy its moving
burden. However, Eon clearly established that it owed no fiduciary duty to Plaintiffs,
strangers to the escrow, while carrying its burden under the first cause of action.
While Eon fails to specifically mention accounting in its memorandum, Eon
states that “Plaintiffs' Complaint fails to show that Defendants Eon and Koh owed
any duty beyond the principals' instructions that were outlined in the Escrow Instructions,
which serves as the premise for each of Plaintiffs' causes of action.” (Motion,
14:5-8.) Thus, it is clear that Eon’s argument regarding a lack of duty or relationship
is made as to each cause of action. 
 Therefore,
Eon has met its moving burden as to the second cause of action.
Plaintiffs fail to meet their burden to establish
a triable issue of material fact. The TAC alleges that non-moving Defendants Bae
Guen Song and Jung Sook Song entered into agreements with the Defendants Jamie Park,
Chris Hong, Audrey Jung, Propent Real Estate Inc., B&B Investment Properties
LLC to secretly transfer the Songs’ property to Defendants Hong and Park in order
to hinder Plaintiffs’ collection of a judgment against the Songs in a prior personal
injury case.  (E.g., TAC ¶¶ 32-33, 44.)  Plaintiffs offer no evidence of Eon having any
relationship or involvement with Plaintiffs other than a conclusory allegation in
the complaint that “a legal relationship exists between Plaintiffs and the Defendants
due to Plaintiff[s’] equitable interest in the subject properly created by the First
Judgment creating constructive Notice of same.” (TAC ¶ 70.) Thus, Plaintiffs fail
to meet their burden to establish a triable issue of material fact as to the second
cause of action for Accounting. 
Summary
adjudication of the second cause of action is granted as to Defendant Eon.
C.        Eon Has Shown That Plaintiffs
Cannot Establish Intent, an Essential Element for IIED.
Eon seeks summary adjudication as to the third
cause of action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (“IIED”).
“‘[T]o state a cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress a plaintiff must show: (1) outrageous conduct by
the defendant; (2) the defendant’s intention of causing or reckless disregard of
the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) the plaintiff’s suffering severe
or extreme emotional distress; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.’  [Citation.] 
‘Conduct, to be ‘outrageous’ must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of
that usually tolerated in a civilized society.’ 
[Citation.]”  (Huntingdon Life Sciences,
Inc. v. Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty USA, Inc. (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 1228,
1259.)  “Liability under the rule attaches
only if the actor intended or should have recognized his conduct is likely to cause
the resultant harm.”  (Spackman v. Good
(1966) 245 Cal.App.2d 518, 529.)
Eon
argues that “Plaintiffs cause of action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress is predicated on the same facts as their cause of action for Fraudulent
Conveyance. Plaintiffs causes of action for Fraudulent Conveyance fails as a matter
of law. As such, their cause of action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
fails for the reasons set forth above.” (Motion, 14:11-14.)
Plaintiffs argue that “EON
Escrow makes no argument with respect to its third issue on summary judgment and
the third cause of action, for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (IIED)
except that it fails on the same facts and law as the first cause of action. As
set forth above, the material facts advanced by Eon Escrow are unfounded hearsay.
Moreover, the elements of the cause of action for IIED are entirely distinct from
the cause of action for aiding and abetting fraudulent transfer and no authorities
whatsoever are cited in support of the third issue. Therefore, Eon Escrow failed
to meet its initial burden on summary adjudication and never shifted it to Plaintiff.”
(Opposition, 11:4-11.)
For the reasons set forth above, Eon meets its
moving burden to establish that it had no knowledge of Plaintiffs’ interests and
owed no duty to Plaintiffs, and accordingly, that Eon did not intend or should not
have recognized that its conduct was likely to cause the resultant harm to Plaintiffs,
who were strangers to the escrow. 
In opposition, Plaintiffs fail to meet their burden
to establish a triable issue of material fact. 
Summary
adjudication of the third cause of action is granted as to Defendant Eon.
D.        Eon Has Shown That Plaintiffs
Cannot Establish Duty, the Essential Element for NIED.
Eon seeks summary adjudication as to the fourth
cause of action for Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress (“NIED”).
“[T]here is no independent tort of negligent infliction
of emotional distress.  [Citation.]  The tort is negligence, a cause of action in which
a duty to the plaintiff is an essential element.  [Citations.] 
That duty may be imposed by law, be assumed by the defendant, or exist by
virtue of a special relationship.  [Citation.]”  (Potter v. Firestone Tire &Rubber Co.
(1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 984-985.)
Eon
argues that “Plaintiffs cause of action for Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress
is predicated on the same facts as their cause of action for Fraudulent Conveyance.
Plaintiffs causes of action for Fraudulent Conveyance fails as a matter of law.
As such, their cause of action for Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress fails
for the reasons set forth above.” (Motion, 14:17-20.) 
Plaintiffs argue that “EON
Escrow makes no argument with respect to its fourth issue on summary judgment and
the fourth cause of action, for Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress (NIED)
except that it fails on the same facts and law as the first cause of action. As
set forth above, the material facts advanced by Eon Escrow are unfounded hearsay.
Moreover, the elements of the cause of action for NIED are entirely distinct from
the cause of action for aiding and abetting fraudulent transfer and no authorities
whatsoever are cited in support of the third issue. Therefore, Eon Escrow failed
to meet its initial burden on summary adjudication and never shifted it to Plaintiff.”
(Opposition, 11:15-22.)
Here,
as discussed above, Eon has proffered sufficient evidence to establish that it owed
no duty to Plaintiffs based on Eon’s status as escrow holders for Defendant
Song. The evidence shows that Eon had no relationship with Plaintiffs, who were
strangers to the escrow. Duty to
the plaintiff is an essential element of NIED. Thus, Eon has met its moving burden
to negate the duty element of NIED.
Plaintiffs
state in opposition that “escrow
holder’s negligence can result in liability to third parties if the officer’s actions
foreseeably cause harm,” citing Seeley v. Seymour (1987) 190 Cal.App.3d 844,
860–861. 
Upon the Court’s own examination, it appears that
Seeley further states, “a defendant can be liable for economic harm inflicted
upon a third party with whom he has no direct dealing, provided that the consideration
of the appropriate factors warrants the imposition of a duty to the third party.
[Citations.] Those factors are: ‘(1) the extent to which the transaction was intended
to affect the plaintiff; (2) the foreseeability of harm to the plaintiff; (3) the
degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury; (4) the closeness of the
connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury suffered; (5) the moral
blame attached to the defendant's conduct; and (6) the policy of preventing future
harm.’” (Seeley v. Seymour (1987) 190 Cal.App.3d 844, 860–61 (Seeley).) 
While
Seeley lays out six (6) factors to consider when deciding whether a defendant can be liable for economic harm
inflicted upon a third party with whom he has no direct dealing, Plaintiffs only
identify and discuss factor two (2), foreseeability of harm to plaintiff. Plaintiffs
offer expert Curtis A. Novy’s declaration, in which he opines that Eon failed to
handle the transaction in accordance with the industry standards and practices,
among other things, by failing to make and keep notes and records, failing to obtain
documents confirming Seller’s statements, and by assisting the Seller with executing
a false affidavit that the lawsuit had been resolved. (See generally, Novy
Decl.) While Plaintiffs argue that Eon knew that a “pending lawsuit” could constitute
a cloud on title, and it was reasonably foreseeable that a tenant involved in that
disclosed “pending lawsuit” would be affected by the transfer of the 3rd Ave Property,
they offer no evidence to establish this foreseeability. The evidence shows that
Eon had no knowledge of Plaintiffs specifically, that Eon satisfied its duty to
follow Defendant Song’s instructions to proceed with closing despite the pending
lawsuit, and that Eon had no duty to further police Defendant Song’s actions. Further,
even if Plaintiffs proffered sufficient evidence to establish foreseeability, they
fail to establish or even mention the other five (5) Seeley factors involved
in finding Eon liable for economic
harm inflicted upon Plaintiffs, who were third parties with whom Eon had no direct
dealing,
Based
on the evidence offered, Plaintiffs fail to carry their burden to establish a triable
issue of material fact as to NIED.
Summary
adjudication of the fourth cause of action is granted as to Defendant Eon.
 
 
 
CONCLUSION
The
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED as to Defendant Eon. Defendant Eon is ordered
to submit a proposed judgment within five days.
A
Non-Appearance Case Review Re: Submission of Proposed Judgment is scheduled for
January 15, 2025 at 9:00 a.m.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 7th day of January 2025
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 