 Case Number:  23NWCV02824    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  C PASSPORT FOODS USA, LLC v.
PASSPORT FOODS (SVC), LLC, ET AL. 
CASE
NO.:  23NWCV02824
HEARING:  10/16/24 @ 9:30 A.M.
 
#6
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Plaintiff
Passport Foods USA, LLC’s motion to set aside default
is GRANTED. The Answer and Cross-Complaint attached to the motion are not
deemed filed as of this date.  Defendant
is ordered to file and serve the Answer and Cross-Complaint within 5 days.      

 
Moving
Party to give NOTICE.
 
This
motion is unopposed as of October 14, 2024. 
 
 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Passport Foods
(SVC) fraudulently represented to its senior secured lender, Continental
Republic, that it had accounts receivable worth $1,759,669 when the accounts
receivable was worth only $25,000. Continental Republic then foreclosed on
Passport Foods (SVC)’s assets. Continental Republic later sold the assets to Plaintiff.
One of the assets allegedly sold was the Employee Retention Tax Credit.
Plaintiff sues for fraud, conversion, money had and received, tortious
interference with contract, breach of contract, and declaratory relief.  
On
August 9, 2024, at the order to show cause re: dismissal as to why the case
should not be dismissed for Plaintiff’s failure to appear on January 9, 2024, the
Court ordered the complaint to be dismissed without prejudice. 
 
Plaintiff
seeks to set aside default based upon mistake, inadvertence, or excusable
neglect under CCP § 473, subd. (b). 
 
Discussion
 
Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (b) states: 
 
The court may, upon any
terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable
time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.  
 
The
purpose of mandatory relief is to alleviate the hardship on parties who lose
their day in court due to an inexcusable failure to act by their attorneys. (Rodriguez v. Brill
(2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 715, 723.) “Section 473 is often applied liberally where
the party in default moves promptly to seek relief, and the party opposing the
motion will not suffer prejudice if relief is granted. [Citations.] In such
situations ‘very slight evidence will be required to justify a court in setting
aside the default.’ [Citations.] [¶] Moreover, because the law strongly favors
trial and disposition on the merits, any doubts in applying section 473 must be
resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default.” (Fasuyi v.
Permatex, Inc. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 681, 695.)
 
Here, default was entered on August 9, 2024,
and Defendant filed the instant motion on September 12, 2024, within the
six-month time specified in CCP § 473. 
Hence, the motion is timely.  
 
Plaintiff’s counsel states that he did not
appear because he miscalendared the date. (Decl. Taormina, ¶ 5.) This is inadvertence
and excusable neglect. 
 
Based upon this, the Court sets aside default.
“Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the
answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted.” (CCP § 473, subd. (b).)  The Answer and Cross-Complaint attached to the
motion is not deemed filed as of this date. 
Defendant is ordered to file and serve the Answer and Cross-Complaint
within 5 days.   
 
           

 