 Case Number:  23NWCV00370    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  C RANDA ISSA v. TYRONE MONTERO
CASE
NO.:  23NWCV00370
HEARING:
 10/16/24 @ 9:30 AM 
 
#4
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendant Tyrone Montero’s motion for terminating sanctions is GRANTED. The
Court strikes Plaintiff’s complaint. 
 
Moving Party to give NOTICE. 
 
This motion is unopposed as of October 14, 2024. 
 
 
This is about an automobile collision. Defendant
Tyrone Montero moves for terminating sanctions against plaintiff Randa Issa. 
 
Legal Standard
 
A Court may order a terminating sanction for
discovery abuse after considering the totality of the circumstances: conduct of
the party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to the
propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain the
discovery. (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 377,
390.)  A decision to order terminating
sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful,
preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe
sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial
court can impose the ultimate sanction. (Los Defensores, supra, 223
Cal.App.4th at p. 390.)   
 
Courts have properly imposed terminating
sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more discovery orders. (Los
Defensores, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 390.) 
 
The court can strike the pleadings or parts of
the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (d)(1).) 
 
Discussion 
 
Defendant argues that the Court may grant
terminating sanctions because Plaintiff did not obey the Court’s order
compelling discovery responses issued on December 15, 2023. 
 
On December 15, 2023, the Court granted
Defendant’s motions to compel Plaintiff’s responses to Request for Production
of Documents, Set One; Special Interrogatories; and Form Interrogatories, Set
One.  Defendant’s counsel states that Plaintiff
has not responded to discovery to date or paid sanctions. (Decl. Fakih, ¶ 8.) 
 
The Court may grant Defendant’s motion to
dismiss because the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce
compliance with the discovery rules. Plaintiff’s responses to Defendant’s
discovery requests were originally due in June 2023. Plaintiff has delayed
responding for more than one year. Plaintiff did not respond to Defendant’s request,
did not oppose the discovery motions, and did not oppose this motion. It
appears Plaintiff is no longer interested in litigating this matter.
 
Defendant’s motion
for terminating sanctions is GRANTED. Plaintiff’s complaint is stricken.
 
 