  Case Number:  23CHCV00830    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  9/4/24




Case
  Name: Michael Buntain, Saul Castro v. County of Los Angeles, City of Santa
  Clarita, Santa Clarita Valley Water Agency, Newhall County Water District,
  and Does 1 through 50




Case No.
  23CHCV00830



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

AUGUST 20, 2024
 

MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER ANSWERS
TO DEPOSITION QUESTIONS; AND REQUEST FOR SANCTIONS

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 23CHCV00830

 
Motion
filed: 7/17/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Santa Clarita Valley Water Agency
RESPONDING PARTY: None.
NOTICE: OK.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order from this Court to compel third-party witness, Sergio Ortiz-Vera of K-VAC
Environmental Services, to attend a further deposition and answer the questions
that he was instructed not to answer on privacy grounds, and to impose monetary
sanctions against Sergio Ortiz-Vera’s employer, K-VAC Environmental Services,
and its counsel in the amount of $4,629.00. 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is GRANTED. The Request for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED IN PART. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from alleged personal injuries that
Plaintiffs sustained while working at Sewage Lift Station (“Lift Station”)
owned and operated by Defendants.
 
On March 21, 2023, Plaintiffs Michael Buntain and Saul
Castro (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed their Complaint against Defendants
County of Los Angeles, City of Santa Clarita, Santa Clarita Valley Water Agency
(“SCVWA”), Newhall County Water District, and Does 1 to 50, alleging (1)
General Negligence, and (2) Dangerous Condition of Public Property.   On May
1, 2023, SCVWA filed its Answer to the Complaint. Subsequently, on August 28,
2024, Plaintiffs requested to dismiss Defendants County of Los Angeles and City
of Santa Clarita, which was entered by the Clerk on the same day.
 
On December 11, 2023,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant City of Santa Clarita filed its Cross-Complaint
against SCVWA, alleging (1) Implied Equitable Indemnity, (2)
Contribution/Apportionment, and (3) Declaratory Relief. Subsequently, SCVWA
answered to this Cross-Complaint on January 10, 2024.
 
On February 23, 2024,
Defendant/Cross-Complainant County of Los Angeles filed its Cross-Complaint
against Roes 1 to 50.
 
On June 11, 2024, SCVWA filed its
First Amended Cross-Complaint against
Defendant/Cross-Complainant/Cross-Defendant City to Santa Clarita and Pumpman,
LLC (“Pumpman”), alleging (1) Implied Equitable Indemnity, (2) Contribution/Apportionment,
(3) Breach of Contract, (4) Express Indemnity, and (5) Declaratory Relief.
Subsequently, Cross-Defendant Pumpman filed its Answer to this Cross-Complaint
on August 13, 2024.
 
On July 17, 2024, SCVWA filed the
instant Motion to Compel Further Answers to Deposition Questions by third-party
deponent, Sergio Ortiz-Vera (“Deponent”) of K-VAC Environmental Services
(“K-VAC”).
 
No Opposition or Reply papers have been received by
the Court.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“If a deponent fails to
answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing under the deponent's control that is specified
in the deposition notice or a deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery
may move the court for an order compelling that answer or production.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2025.480, subd. (a).) 
 
Counsel should not instruct
clients not to answer the question unless the purpose is to protect privileged
information. (See Stewart v. Colonial Western Agency, Inc. (2001) 87
Cal.App.4th 1006, 1014.) 
 
A.   
Motion to
Compel Further Answers to Deposition Questions
 
SCVWA presents that during
the first deposition on May 10, 2024, counsel for Deponent’s employer K-VAC, Aldo
Flores (“FLORES”), instructed Deponent not to answer certain questions on
privacy grounds. (Mot. at p. 3, Jensen Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
SCVWA seeks to compel the
answer to deposition questions. It reads in relevant part:
 
(a)  
Page 12, Lines 12 – 20
 
Q. Okay. When you first started to
work at K-Vac, did you receive any type of training in injury prevention?
 
MR. FLORES:  Objection. Right of privacy on behalf of the
witness and on behalf of K-Vac Environmental. ¶ I’ll instruct the witness not to speak on what training
he received or did not receive at his place of employment.
 
(b)  
Page 14, Lines 21 – 24
 
Q. Okay. When you first started
working with K-Vac, did you review any manuals or written guidelines related to
injury prevention? 
 
MR. FLORES: Same objection.
 
(c)  
Page 15, Lines 2 – 4
 
Q. Okay. When was the last time you
received any training in injury prevention through K-Vac? 
 
MR. FLORES: Same objection.
 
(d)  
Page 15, Lines 6 – 9
  
Q. Mr. Ortiz-Vera, when was last
time that you reviewed any written materials whether hard copy or online
related to injury prevention?
 
MR. FLORES: Same objection.
 
(e)  
Page 15, Lines 13 – 16
 
[Q.] Did any of your injury
prevention training include discussions related to personal protective equipment?

 
MR. FLORES: Same objection.
 
(f)   
Page 15, Lines 24 – Page 16, Lines 3
 
Q. Did any of your injury
prevention training include discussions
regarding the various types of personal protection
equipment? 
 
MR.
FLORES: Same objection. Also assumes facts.
 
(g)  
Page 16, Lines 20 – 23
 
Q. Did your injury prevention training address at any time when hearing
protection was recommended to be worn?
 
MR. FLORES:
Same objection.
 
(h)  
Page 15, Line 16 – Page 17, Lines 3
 
Q.
Okay. Did any of the injury prevention training that you received at K-Vac
involve discussions about when hearing protection had to be worn?
 
MR. FLORES: Same objection.
 
(i)    
Page
17, Lines 9 – 11
 
Q. Okay. When you started with K-Vac, did K-Vac supply you
with personal protective equipment?
 
MR. FLORES: Same objection.
 
(j)    
Page
17, Lines 13 – 16
 
Q. At
any time while you've been working with K-Vac, did K-Vac provide you with any
updated or additional personal protective equipment?
 
MR. FLORES: Same objection.
 
(k)  
Page
19, Lines 18 – 23
 
Q.
Well, the question is has he ever been advised independent of reading it that wearing
hearing protection in all areas having high noise exposure is part of the -- is
necessary on jobs such as the instant job?
 
MR. FLORES: Same objection.
 
(l)    
Page
20, Lines 14 – 16
 
Q.
Okay. Has anyone advised you that high noise exposure could come from heavy
machinery?
 
MR. FLORES: Same objection.
 
(m)  Page 21, Lines 6 – 15
 
Q.
Okay. Does K-Vac injury prevention policies include the requirement that
personnel from K-Vac conduct a hazard assessment on any project involving
K-Vac?
 
MR.
FLORES: Same objection.
 
MR.
JENSEN: Okay. And just for the record, I do have other questions to ask in
regard to this document; however, given the instruction, I'm not going to go
into it. I'll reserve it for down the road once we get past this issue.
 
(n)  
Page
22, Lines 3 – 5
 
Q.
Okay. Have you ever performed a confined space entry yourself?
 
MR. FLORES: Same objection.
 
(o)  
Page
22, Lines 11 – 13
 
Q.
Okay. And while you were with K-Vac, did you ever perform a confined space
entry?
 
MR. FLORES: Same objection.
 
(p)  
Page
23, Lines 14 – 16
 
Q.
Okay. Have you ever received any training regarding the safety requirements
from California OSHA?
 
MR. FLORES: Same objection.
 
(q)  
Page
32, Lines 1 – 2
 
[Q.] [...] exposure?
 
MR. FLORES: Same objection.
 
(Jensen Decl. ¶ 6, Ex. “2.”)
 
1)     
Objections
Based on Privacy
 
Case
law has established that several areas of an individual’s life are entitled to
privacy, among them are privacy in one’s financial records, medical records,
and employment records. This privacy interest is not absolute and must
sometimes yield if a balancing of interests so required. Hill v. National
Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1 sets forth the process. First,
a legally protected privacy right must be identified, in which the party has a
reasonable expectation of privacy and the threatened invasion of which is
serious rather than trivial. If these facts exist, courts must balance the
invasion of that privacy with the competing interests. “Privacy
concerns are not absolute; they must be balanced against other important
interests. . . .¿ Invasion of a privacy interest is not a violation of the
state constitutional right to privacy if the invasion is justified by a
competing interest. Legitimate interests derive from the legally authorized and
socially beneficial activities of government and private entities.” (Hill v.
National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 37-38.)
 

Here, SCVWA argues that none of the
questions posed to Deponent were directed toward a recognized Zone of Privacy,
nor were they related in any manner to a trade secret or other proprietary
information. (Mot. at p. 5.)
 
Furthermore, SCVWA argues that a
balancing test would also favor its position as the questions are related to
the safety protocol of staff worked on the same project as Plaintiffs and who
were subject to the same and similar safety hazards. (Mot. at p. 6.)
 
The Court notes that Plaintiffs allege
they sustained injuries while working at the Lift Station on April 28, 2022 – as
they were standing near the wet well of the Lift Station and getting ready to
make a confined space entry into the wet well, an explosion occurred from
inside the wet well, hitting and throwing Plaintiffs, causing their injuries.
(Compl. ¶ 8.) In response, SCVWA filed its first amended cross-complaint (“FACC”)
against Pumpman, asserting that Plaintiffs violated industry-standard safety
protocol for all persons involved in the Lift Station operations. ((SCVWA’s
FACC ¶ 25.) SCVWA also contends that it expects to establish that Pumpman
violated the protocol by failing to ensure that its personnel were properly
trained and supervised. (Mot. at p. 6.) 
 
Given the nature of the allegations, the
Court finds that evidence pertaining to standard safety training, practices,
and supervision protocol for personnel who performed work at the Lift Station
is highly relevant to the case. 
 
 Consequently, the Court finds SCVWA’s argument
persuasive that Deponent’s counsel objections based on privacy were not
substantially justified. Additionally, Deponent’s failure to file an Opposition
to the Motion effectively waives any objections to the issues raised.
 
Therefore, the Court GRANTS the Motion. 
 
B.    
Monetary
Sanctions
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter
7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (j).) Additionally,
California Rules of Court rule 3.1348(A) further provides, “The Court may award
sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to
compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or
opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided
to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Underlines added.)
 
Given that the Court has granted the Motion, it finds that the
mandatory monetary sanctions are applicable.
 
Utilizing
a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the
Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorneys’ fees and costs
incurred for the work in preparing the Motion is $1,950.00, calculated at a
reasonable hourly rate of $190.00 for 5 hours reasonably spent, in addition to
$1,000.00 for reasonable court reporter fees.
 
Accordingly,
the Court GRANTS IN PART the request for monetary sanctions.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Santa Clarita Valley Water Agency’s Motion to Compel Further Answers to Deposition Questions is GRANTED,
consistent with the above analysis.
 
Defendant/Cross-Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Santa Clarita Valley Water Agency’s Request for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED IN PART.
 
Third-party
deponent Sergio Ortiz-Vera’s employer, K-VAC Environmental Services, and its
counsel during the May 10, 2024 deposition, Aldo Flores, are ordered to jointly
and severally pay $1,950.00 to Santa Clarita
Valley Water Agency’s counsel within 30 days.
 
Moving
party to give notice.
 