  Case Number:  19STCV42090    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



STANLEY
  BLACK,  
  
         vs.
 
ROBERT
  K. BARTH, et al.


 Case No.: 
  19STCV42090
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 3, 2024



 
Defendants
Robert K. Barth’s and Eastwind Financial, LLC’s unopposed motion for an order granting preliminary approval of the Settlement Agreement
and Release, and Plaintiffs Haderway PTC, LLC, as Trustee, etc. derivatively on
behalf of Centerville Place 1023 Main, LLC, a Delaware limited liability
company and BFSB Portfolio, LP derivatively on behalf of JBR Alondra, LLC’s
joinder to Defendants’ motion is granted.
 
Defendants Robert K. Barth (“Barth”) and
Eastwind Financial, LLC (“Eastwind”) (collectively, “Defendants”) move unopposed
for an order granting preliminary approval of the Settlement Agreement and
Release.  (Notice Motion, pg. 2.)  The motion is brought on the grounds that (1)
the settlement was reached following extensive arm’s-length negotiations over a
period of more than eight months; (2) the settlement was negotiated following
an eight-day bench trial resulting in judgment for Plaintiffs Haderway PTC, LLC
(“Haderway”) and BFSB Portfolio, LP (“BFSB”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) and
during the pendency of cross-appeals; (3) the relative strengths and weaknesses
of the parties’ grounds for appeal weigh in favor of preliminary approval; (4)
the risk, expense, complexity, and duration of the litigation, including the
parties’ pending appeals and the prospect of a retrial, weigh in favor of
preliminary approval; (5) the settlement is in the best interests of JBR
Alondra, LLC (“JBR”) and Centerville Place 1023 Main, LLC (“Centerville”)
(collectively, “Nominal Defendants”) and their members; and (6) the proposed
notice to the direct and indirect members of the Nominal Defendants provides
adequate notice of the settlement terms and an opportunity to object before
final approval by the Court.  (Notice
Motion, pg. 2.)
Plaintiffs join Defendants’ motion for
preliminary approval of the settlement of the derivative action.  (Notice Joinder, pg. 2.)
 
Background
In November 2019, Stanley Black (“Black”) filed
this action derivatively on behalf of Nominal Defendants, two real estate
investment entities that were managed by Barth or his affiliates.  Black alleged that Barth had cheated Alondra
and Centerville out of approximately $6,600,000 in connection with a series of
transactions involving the purchase and sale of a single-family residence
located on Greenway Drive in Beverly Hills (“Greenway”).  Following several substitutions of plaintiffs
and the grant of summary adjudication in favor of Defendants on two causes of
action, the case proceeded to an eight-day bench trial in October and November
2021.
On April 28, 2022, this Court issued a final
statement of decision, in which the Court: (1) ruled for Plaintiffs  on their claims against Barth for breach of
fiduciary duty and misappropriation of opportunity; (2) ruled for Barth and
Eastwind on the claims for breach of contract and conversion; and (3) awarded
Plaintiffs compensatory damages in the amount of $6,692,740, along with
prejudgment interest from January 15, 2019, and punitive damages in the same
amount.  This Court entered judgment on
May 26, 2022.
Barth and Plaintiffs filed cross-appeals on
July 14, 2022, and July 26, 2022, respectively. 
While those cross-appeals have been pending, this Court awarded
Plaintiffs attorney fees in the amount of $1,401,491.50 under the common fund
doctrine, to be borne from the judgment amount, and costs in the amount of
$102,581.29.  The appeal and cross-appeal
have not been fully briefed and remain pending.
Defendants filed the instant motion on April
19, 2024.  Plaintiffs filed their joinder
on June 20, 2024.  As of the date of this
hearing no opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
Settlements of derivative actions are subject
to court approval.  (Whitten v. Dabney
(1915) 171 Cal. 621, 630-632; Kennedy v.
Kennedy (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 1474, 1485 [“Dismissal
of a derivative claim requires court approval.”].) 
California public policy strongly favors
settlements.  (See Osumi v. Sutton
(2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 1355, 1359 [“It is, of course, the strong public policy
of this state to encourage the voluntary settlement of litigation.”]; Hamilton
v. Oakland School District (1933) 2019 24 Cal. 322, 329 [“It is the policy
of the law to discourage litigation and to favor compromises.”].)
Under California law, a presumption of fairness
attaches to a settlement where: “(l) the settlement is reached through
arm’s-length bargaining; (2) investigation and discovery are sufficient to
allow counsel and the court to act intelligently; (3) counsel is experienced in
similar litigation; and (4) the percentage of objections is
small.”  (Dunk v. Ford
Motor Co. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1794, 1802.)  A court may also consider other relevant
factors, “such as the strength of 
plaintiffs’ case, the risk, expense, complexity and likely duration of
further litigation, the risk of maintaining class action status through trial,
the amount offered in settlement, the extent of discovery completed and the
stage of the proceedings, the experience and views of counsel, the presence of
a governmental participant, and the reaction . . . to the proposed settlement.”  (Id. at pg. 1801.)
At the preliminary approval stage, the sole
issue before the Court is whether the proposed settlement is within a range of
what might be found fair, reasonable, and adequate, so that notice of the
proposed settlement can be given to shareholders and a date can be set for a
final hearing to consider final settlement approval.  (See Manual for
Complex Litigation §§21.632, 21.633 (4th ed. 2016); Dunk, 48
Cal.App.4th at pg. 1801.)  The ultimate
determination of whether the settlement is fair, reasonable, and adequate is
made only after notice of the settlement has been given to shareholders
affording them an opportunity to evaluate and comment on the proposed
settlement.  (See Manual for
Complex Litigation §§21.633, 21.634 (4th ed. 2016).)
 
Discussion
The Settlement Agreement was reached through
many months of arm’s-length negotiations among experienced counsel fully versed
in the in relevant facts and law, meeting the first three factors that support
preliminary approval of the settlement. 
(Dunk, 48 Cal.App.4th at pg. 1802.)  
The parties commenced settlement negotiations
in June 2023.  (Decl. of Klieger ¶19.)  Defendants’ counsel
declares those settlement negotiations were conducted between the
same experienced trial counsel who had represented Plaintiffs and Defendants,
respectively, during the more than four years this case has been pending, along
with a highly regarded appellate specialist that Plaintiffs engaged as
co-counsel for purposes of the appeal.  (Decl. of Klieger ¶19.)  Defendants’ counsel declares the settlement
negotiations continued for a period of eight months, with the parties’ counsel
spending more than a hundred hours in the aggregate negotiating, drafting, and
revising the settlement terms and numerous iterations of the settlement
documents.  (Decl. of Klieger
¶19.)  Defendants’ counsel
declares the parties finalized and executed the Settlement Agreement during the
last week of February 2024.  (Decl. of
Klieger ¶19.)
Additional factors also weigh in favor of
preliminary approval of the settlement.  The
Settlement Agreement and Release fully redresses the damages caused by
Defendants’ alleged wrongdoing. Specifically, the settlement requires Barth to
pay to Alondra and Centerville all of the following: (1) the full amount of
compensatory damages awarded by the Court, in the amount of $6,692,740; (2) the
full amount of prejudgment interest awarded by the Court, in the amount of
$1,713,242.42; and (3) post-judgment interest at the rate of ten percent per
annum through the date of payment, which already exceeds $1,507,895.  (Motion, pg. 19; Exh. 1 at §§3.1-3.2.)   These
amounts are offset only by the amount of the common fund attorneys’ fees award
and costs award that have already been approved by the Court.  Under the Settlement Agreement, Alondra and
Centerville will receive $8,409,804.63, which is more than 125% of the
compensatory damages claimed by Plaintiffs and awarded by the Court.  In addition, the attorneys’ fees and costs
that Plaintiffs have incurred to date in connection with the appellate
proceedings, totaling $403,751.11, will be borne personally by Barth, without
any reduction of the settlement amount. 
(Motion, pgs. 19-20; Exh. 1 at §3.6.)
Further, the judgment shall be vacated, and the
entire action and all causes of action shall be dismissed with prejudice. The
judgment will nonetheless be accorded the force and effect of a final judgment
for purposes of res judicata, collateral estoppel, and similar doctrines and
rules in any later action or proceedings between the same parties or their
affiliates.  (Exh. 1 at §3.7.)
The proposed Settlement Agreement represents an
outstanding resolution for Alondra and Centerville in the face of a vigorously
contested appeal.  If the Court of Appeal
rules for Barth on any of his seven claims of error in his appeal, the possible
outcomes range from a vacatur of the punitive damages award to a reversal and
remand for a new trial to a reversal and entry of judgment for Defendants on
all claims for relief.  If the Court of
Appeal rules for Plaintiffs on their claim of error, the Court of Appeal could
award treble damages or remand the case for the same.  The guaranteed recovery by each participating
member of more than 125% of the compensatory damages claimed by Plaintiffs and
awarded by the Court is more than fair, reasonable, and adequate in view of the
risks of the pending appeal, the time and expense required to complete that
appeal and potentially retry the case, and the possibility of an outright
reversal or eventual judgment for Defendants that vindicates Defendants’
position and leaves Plaintiffs with no recovery at all.
Accordingly, the Court grants the requested
preliminary approval of the Settlement Agreement and Release.
 
Notice
Settlement of derivative actions typically
requires notice of the settlement to shareholders, “informing them of the
settlement’s terms, their right to file written objections with the superior
court, and their right to appear at the settlement hearing,” in a mechanism
like class actions.  (Robbins v. Alibrandi
(2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 438, 447.)  In
the class action context, CRC, Rule 3.769(f) provides that “notice
of the final approval hearing must be given . . . in the manner specified by
the court.”  (CRC, Rule 3.769(f).)  The notice “must contain an explanation of
the proposed settlement and procedures . . . to follow in filing written
objections to it and in arranging to appear at the settlement hearing and state
any objections to the proposed settlement.” 
(Id.)
Here, the proposed Notices are drafted in plain
language and contains all the information required by CRC, Rule 3.766(d) for
notice to class members that is relevant in the context of a settlement of a
derivative action.  (Motion, pg. 21, Exhs.
2-3;[1] see Churchill Village, LLC v. Gen. Electric
(9th Cir. 2004) 361 F.3d 566, 575 [“Notice is satisfactory if it ‘generally’
describes the terms of the settlement in sufficient detail to alert those with
adverse viewpoints to investigate and come forward and be heard.”]; Litwin
v. iRenew Bio Energy Solutions, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 877, 883-884 [stating
notice must state that “[i]t is unnecessary for objectors to appear personally
at the settlement hearing in order to have their written objections considered
by the court”].)  
The proposed Notices includes: (1) a summary of
the instant action and Stanley Black v. Robert K Barth, et al., LASC
Case No. 19STCV41943 (“Brighton Action”), including, for both actions, their
procedural histories and the parties’ contentions; (2) the settlement terms,
including the estimate amount each member will receive; (3) the reasons the
parties recommend settlement of the action; (4) copies of the Final Statement
of Decision and Judgment in this action and the trial court's order on summary
judgment in the Brighton Action; (5) how to appear at the final settlement
hearing and the procedure for objecting to the settlement; and (6) the binding
effect that final approval of the settlement will have on current investors.  (Exhs. 2-3.)
The Notices will be served via first class mail
to the addresses on record with Alondra and Centerville or their affiliates for
each of their direct and indirect members. The deadline to object to the
Settlement Agreement and Release is fourteen (14) days prior to the final
hearing date. This affords the members ample time to review the Settlement
Agreement and Release and determine whether to timely file any such objection.
 
Schedule of Events
          The Court approves Defendants’
proposed schedule: (1) for mailing of the proposed Notices (no later than ten
calendar days after entry of Preliminary Approval Order); (2) the filing of
submissions in support of final approval of the Settlement Agreement and
Release (at least twenty-eight calendar days prior to the final hearing date);
(3) the deadline to file objections with the Court (at least fourteen calendar
days prior to the final hearing date; (4) the deadline to file a response to
objections, if any (at least seven calendar days prior to the final hearing
date; and (5) the final hearing date (at least sixty calendar days after entry
of the Preliminary Approval Order).
 
Conclusion
Defendants’ unopposed motion for
preliminary approval of the Settlement Agreement and Release, and Plaintiffs’
joinder the Defendants’ motion, is granted. 
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated: 
July _____, 2024
                                                                             





  