 Case Number:  24PSCV00010    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Salloum Makhamre’s Motion Compelling  Riverside Community Hospital’s Compliance with Deposition Subpoena and Request  for Monetary Sanctions Respondent: NO OPPOSITION TENTATIVE RULING Plaintiff Salloum Makhamre’s Motion Compelling  Riverside Community Hospital’s Compliance with Deposition Subpoena is GRANTED and  Riverside Community Hospital is ordered to serve Plaintiff Salloum Makhamre’s  complete radiology records on Plaintiff Salloum Makhamre within twenty (20)  days of the issuance of this order. Furthermore, Riverside Community Hospital is ordered  to pay $500.00 in sanctions to Plaintiff Salloum Makhamre within ten (10) days  of the issuance of this order. BACKGROUND This is an action for elder  abuse and negligence. In December 2022, Plaintiff Salloum Makhamre was admitted  to Defendant Mountain View Centers (MVC) for care after receiving medical  treatment for fall-related injuries. At the time of admission, Makhamre  suffered from memory loss and dementia. Makhamre alleges MVC failed to provide  proper care to Makhamre which included preventing Makhamre from falling. As an  alleged result, Makhamre had another fall and suffered an intracranial bleed  which required surgical intervention. On January 2, 2024, Makhamre,  by and through Basma Makhamre as successor-in-interest, filed a complaint against  Defendants MVC, Smita T. Sanghvi, and Does 1-250, alleging causes of action for  (1) elder abuse and (2) negligence. On March 28, 2024, Makhamre  filed the present motion. A hearing on the present motion is set for June 18,  2024, along with a case management conference and OSC Re: Sanctions. ANALYSIS Makhamre moves to compel non-party Riverside Community Hospital  (RCH)’s compliance with a deposition subpoena for Makhamre’s medical  records. For the following reasons, the Court GRANTS  Makhamre’s motion. Legal  Standard A  party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party to the action may  obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or deposition subpoena  for production of business records. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010.) A  deposition subpoena may command: (1) only the attendance and testimony of the  deponent, (2) only the production of business records for copying, or (3) the  attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the production of business  records, other documents, electronically stored information, and tangible  things. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.) Service of a deposition subpoena shall  be done with sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the  deponent a reasonable opportunity to locate and produce any designated  documents and, where personal attendance is commanded, a reasonable time to  travel to the place of deposition. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (a).) Personal service of any deposition subpoena is effective to require a deponent  who is a resident of California to: personally appear and testify, if the  subpoena so specifies; to produce any specified documents; and to appear at a  court session if the subpoena so specifies. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220,  subd. (c).) If  a deponent fails to appear or produce requested documents for a deposition, the  deposing party may file a noticed motion to compel deponent’s compliance. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).) A deponent who disobeys a deposition subpoena  may also be punished for contempt without the necessity of a prior court order court  directing compliance. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.240.) A noncompliant deponent  may also be ordered to pay $500 to the deposing party in addition to any  damages the deposing party incurred as a result of the deponent’s failure to  attend the deposition. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.240, citing Code Civ. Proc., §  1992.) Discussion On  February 15, 2024, Makhamre served  a deposition notice and subpoena on RCH requesting all documents or records  relating to Makhamre and setting a deposition for March 12, 2024. (Garcia  Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. 1.) While RCH provided medical and billing records on March 11,  2024, Makhamre’s counsel states they failed to provide radiology records or  attend the March 12 deposition. (Garcia Decl., ¶ 4-5.) On March 20, 2024, RCH’s  custodian of records, Dawn Stroud, spoke to Makhamre’s counsel over the  telephone and stated a refusal to comply with the subpoena. (Garcia Decl., ¶ 6.) On March 28, 2024, Makhamre  filed the present motion and personally served RCH’s custodian of records with  notice of the motion on March 29, 2024. The Court is not in receipt of any  timely opposition from RCH. Because RCH failed to appear and comply with the  deposition subpoena, Makhamre’s motion to compel is GRANTED. Makhamre also requests the  Court impose monetary and contempt sanctions for RCH’s failure to comply with the  deposition subpoena. While the Court declines to issue contempt sanctions, the  Court will award Makhamre $500.00 in sanctions pursuant to Code of Civil  Procedure sections 2020.240 and 1992. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Makhamre’s  motion to compel compliance is GRANTED and RCH is ordered to provide Makhamre’s  complete radiology records to Makhamre within twenty (20) days of the issuance  of this order. Furthermore, RCH is ordered  to pay $500.00 in sanctions to Makhamre within ten (10) days of the issuance of  this order.