 Case Number:  23PSCV02269    Hearing Date:   June 18, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Consumers Pipe & Supply Co.’s Motion to
Sever Cross-Complaint
Respondent: Defendants Heda
Construction Inc. and Hirbohd Hedayat
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Consumers Pipe & Supply Co.’s Motion to
Sever Cross-Complaint is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
This
is a breach of contract action arising from a credit purchase agreement. In
March 2023, Plaintiff Consumers Pipe & Supply Co. (Consumers Pipe) entered
into a credit application and sales agreement with Defendant Heda Construction
Inc. (Heda Construction) in which Consumers Pipe agreed to extend credit to
Heda Construction for the purchase of goods and merchandise. In support of the
agreement, Defendant Hirbohd Hedayat executed a personal guaranty.
Subsequently, Consumers Pipe alleges Heda Construction and Hedayat failed to
make the payments required pursuant to their agreement.
On
July 26, 2023, Consumers Pipe filed a complaint against Heda Construction,
Hedayat, and Does 1-20, alleging the following causes of action: (1) goods sold
and delivered, (2) quantum valebant, (3) open book account, (4) account stated,
(5) breach of contract, and (6) breach of personal guaranty.
On April 4,
2024, Heda Construction and Hedayat filed a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants MEDG International, Inc. (MEDG) and Does 1-25, alleging the
following causes of action: (1) equitable indemnity, (2) contribution, (3)
declaratory relief, (4) express indemnity, and (5) breach of written contract.
On May 1,
2024, Consumers Pipe filed the present motion. A hearing on the present motion
is set for June 18, 2024, along with a case management conference/OSC Re:
Default.
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
Consumers Pipe requests the
Court take judicial notice of case records and a pleading in another action
brought before this Court by Heda Construction against MEDG. Pursuant to
Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d), Consumers Pipe’s request is GRANTED.
ANALYSIS
Consumers
Pipe moves for the severance of Heda Construction and Hedayat’s Cross-Complaint
from the present action. For the following reasons, the Court GRANTS their motion.
Legal Standard
The
term “sever” no longer applies in statutory authority. (Morehart v. County
of Santa Barbara¿(1994) 7 Cal.4th 725, 738, fn. 3.) The Court instead
relies on the statutory language of Code of Civil Procedure section 1048,
subdivision (b), which states as follows:“The court, in furtherance of convenience or to
avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and
economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause
of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any
number of causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury
required by the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United
States.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd. (b).)
In addition to filing a
cross-complaint against other parties in the same action, a cross-complainant
may file a cross-complaint against nonparties “if the cause of action asserted
in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or
series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought against him or (2)
asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or controversy which is the
subject of the cause brought against him.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10, subd.
(b).)
Discussion
In this case, Consumers Pipe
argues severance is appropriate because the Cross-Complaint introduces new
claims against a new party and has no relationship with Consumers Pipe’s
claims. (Motion, p. 8:23-9:3.) The Cross-Complaint alleges MEDG breached a
subcontractor agreement between Heda
Construction, Hedayat, and MEDG by failing to meet stipulated completion
deadlines, exhibiting subpar project management practices, and failing to make
payments for work performed. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 9.) The Cross-Complaint
further alleges that MEDG’s breach caused Heda Construction and Hedayat to
suffer financial losses and setbacks which resulted in them becoming indebted
to Consumers Pipe. (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 11.)
In
opposition, Heda Construction and Hedayat argue MEDG’s alleged breach is
directly related to the nonpayment issue raised in Consumers Pipe’s Complaint.
(Opp., p. 3:3-8.) But any relation is marginal at best. A judgment in Consumers
Pipe’s action may affect an action on Heda Construction and Hedayat’s
Cross-Complaint to the extent they claim the amount owed to Consumers Pipe as
damages. Heda Construction and Hedayat fail to demonstrate how a judgment in an
action on their Cross-Complaint affects Consumers Pipe’s action as their legal
obligations to Consumers Pipe are separate from MEDG’s legal obligations to
them. Thus, the Court finds the Complaint and Cross-Complaint are not transactionally
related and should not be litigated together.
Accordingly,
Consumers Pipe’s motion is GRANTED.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, the
Court GRANTS Consumers Pipe’s motion to hold a separate trial on Heda Construction and Hedayat’s
Cross-Complaint.