  Case Number:  23SMCV05447    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling 
Epstein v. Munoz,
et al. Case No. 23SMCV05447
Hearing Date: May 16,
2024
Defendants’ Motion
for Undertaking 
 
Plaintiff
sustained serious injuries while go-karting at defendants’ property when she
was 12 years old. Defendants seek an order requiring plaintiff to post an
undertaking of $56,000 under CCP §1030 on the grounds that plaintiff resides
outside of California and defendants present a reasonable possibility they will
prevail.
 
“When the plaintiff in an action or special proceeding
resides out of the state, or is a foreign corporation, the defendant may at any
time apply to the court by noticed motion for an order requiring the plaintiff
to file an undertaking.” Code Civ. Proc. §1030(a). Plaintiff will not be
required to file an undertaking unless “there is a reasonable possibility that
the moving defendant will obtain judgment in the action or special proceeding.”
Id., §1030(b). The motion must be accompanied by an affidavit stating
the nature and amount of costs and attorney’s fees the defendant has incurred
and expects to incur. Id. 
 
If the motion is granted and plaintiff fails to file the
undertaking, the action shall be dismissed. Code Civ. Proc. §1030(d). “The determinations of the court under this section have
no effect on the determination of any issues on the merits of the action or
special proceeding and may not be given in evidence nor referred to in the
trial of the action or proceeding.” Id., §1030(f).
 
Per plaintiff’s
responses to form interrogatories, set one, she lives in London, United
Kingdom. Safarian Decl., Exh. C at 3:12. 
 
Defendants argue
they present a reasonable possibility they will prevail because they were not
negligent in supervising the then-12-year-old plaintiff and maintaining a safe
driveway. Defendants argue the negligence claim is barred under the primary
rights doctrine and the 12-year-old plaintiff should have been aware of the
risk of colliding with a gate while riding the go-kart downhill. Defendants argue
they did not increase the inherent risks of go-karting downhill by failing to
inform plaintiff about the open and obvious condition of the driveway slope. Defendants
state that they did not represent their driveway was a safe place for
scootering. Defendants cross-complained against plaintiff’s mother, who was
present, and contend the mother should have been supervising plaintiff.
 
In opposition,
plaintiff contends defendants have not presented evidence of a reasonable possibility
that they will obtain judgment in their favor. The court agrees. There is no evidence
provided, only argument.
 
Granting an undertaking
is discretionary. Code Civ. Proc. §1030(d). Defendants fail to establish
sufficient evidence of a reasonable probability of prevailing. DENIED.
 
Plaintiff’s request
for sanctions is DENIED, as plaintiff did not provide the opportunity to
withdraw the motion under the 21-day safe harbor period before seeking
sanctions. Code Civ. Proc. §128.45(f)(1)(B).