 Case Number:  22STCV21275    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  68 


Dept. 68


 




Date: 5-9-24


 




Case No: 22STCV21275
Trial Date: Not Set
 


 



 
DEMURRER TO THE COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant, Confluent, Inc.
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Ava Naeini
 
RELIEF REQUESTED:
Demurrer to the Fourth Amended Complaint
·        
6th
Cause of Action: Harassment in Violation of Gov’t Code 12940, et seq.
·        
7th
Cause of Action: Retaliation in Violation of Gov’t Code 12940 et seq.
·        
8th
Cause of Action: Wrongful Constructive Termination in Violation of Public
Policy
·        
9th
Cause of Action: Discrimination in Violation of Government Code section 12940,
et. seq.
·        
11th
Cause of Action: Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
·        
14th
Cause of Action: Workplace Harassment
 
Motion to Strike 
New Allegations
·        
“Status
and Demand for Justice” page 3-4
·        
“Summary”
page 4-10; o Exhibits 1 through 5 found on page 74 to 96
·        
Sixth
Cause of Action
·        
Seventh
Cause of Action
·        
Eighth
Cause of Action
·        
Ninth
Cause of Action
·        
Eleventh
Cause of Action
·        
Fourteenth
Cause of Action
 
Previously Struck and Re-Incorporated Allegations
·        
16
at page 84 “PLAINTIFF alleges that the work environment abuse that created
severe health issues mentioned above is the result of inability in the
DEFENDANTS and the leadership to understand basic human needs such as rest,
sleep, nutritious food, and a healthy lifestyle during one year and a half of
employment.” 
·        
18
at page 84 “Upon hiring they knew Plaintiff was an Iranian Muslim, and they had
understanding of practices and halal food, but customers were hostile towards
small breaks and project management was nonexistent.” 22 at page 85. 
·        
“E.G.
Chris Urban who had 0 technical background joined with a few others to create
the innovation org and never shared that with PLAINTIFF who actually worked on
an innovative project.” 
·        
24
at page 85 “Narcissistic men would take the energy of women and step on them
when they were done.” 
·        
24
at page 86 “Customers such as JPL and UWM mortgage were abusive and angry from
the beginning due to lack of transparency in the company sales or technical
process.” 24 at page 86. 
·        
“Other
customer leads such as Jameel Chaudhary, General Manager at Sigma Systems
clearly stated to Plaintiff during her engagement. ‘There needs to be more
transparency in the sales process to improve the decision-making during
onboarding’ a fact she sympathized with.” 
·        
24
at page 86 “the company staff lacked technical knowledge and professional
services were passive, and ineffective with no repercussions even when
management was made aware.” 
·        
26
at page 86. “during certain customer engagements, Plaintiff was the face and
the voice onsite and fully in charge while she wasn't even being acknowledged
or considered in any decisions were being made internally post or pre
engagements and this impacted her growth, the ability to make a decision on
projects she was working on was 0.” 
·        
28
at page 87 “in cases that she shined like Sigma Systems whereas certain
employees, co-workers and management people sabotaged it, due to jealousy,
personal fear of women, lack of confidence, lack of proficiency in the field
and academic background needed to be successful that they didn’t possess.
Again, due to the fact that project managers were ineffective, not skilled
enough and still try to control, and stay in a field they were not able to
perform at. All the project managers were of American and white descent, which
says a lot about how non inclusive they were.” 
·        
29
at page 87- 88 “Vaibhav told her we should give this project to someone else,
if you haven’t finished it in 6 months, you probably can’t do it. He didn’t
even understand the scope due to his poor knowledge. He would make bogus
comments that showed his inability to think clearly, read properly, learn new
tech and utilize his brain in a useful manner instead he would doubt and
character sabotage from time to time and form Hindu mafias with his fellas to
attack Plaintiff.”
·        
29
at page 88 “In particularly most Hindus on the team, would hide technical
information and make situations awkward and share information among themselves
to the exclusion of others on a regular and ongoing basis.” 
·        
29
at page 88 “Everyone was given time except PLAINTIFF. It all started by Carol
since she was very unhappy, felt powerless and often complained about her own
responsibilities so she chose to grow the team by hiring only people from India
to stay in her comfort zone, control others using men from her culture to shift
the culture in the hope of growing her base and influence which she miserably
failed at and ended up leaving the team right after PLAINTIFF was terminated.” 
·        
30
at page 88- 89 Allegations include, “simple Hindu family;” “proof of broken
Hindu culture;” “an American girl who lived on a farm with cows and didn’t have
the same caliber and education background;” “lacked mental stability.” 
·        
31
at page 89- 90 Allegations include, “manager puppets in a show;” “Carol Patel
along with many others and with their small minds … she didn’t know what she
was doing;” “Carol has multiple personality disorder;” “she has a sexual
disorder and that led to her lack of mental stability.”) 
·        
32
at page 90 “In another instance, an idea called ‘Confluent Incubator’ that she
came up to fix a lot of customer and communication issues got blocked by the
project manager Kirby Frank due to his jealousy and lack of technical
knowledge.” 
·        
32
at page 91 “candidate week long paid time off was rejected again repeatedly
while the company had unlimited paid time off policies, and she brought that to
the human resources Preeya Patel that she needs time off, and she is tired and
has back pains and her birthday is approaching.” 
·        
32
at page 91 “Carol said ‘Oh you are at that stage’ meaning she knew the physical
sacrifice and what long hours of flight and lack of sleep would do to your
body, but she chose to still torture PLAINTIFF by arguing and rejecting her
week-long time off passive aggressively.” 
·        
33
at page 91 “Three of them Vaibhav Mathur, Carol Patel and Preeya Patel created
a non-inclusive Indian mafia….” 
·        
38
at page 92- 93 “she was never part of Sales calls as Carol and him preferred to
hold their power by blocking her working in a cross-functional role to limit
her growth, and visibility despite the fact that both lacked technical
knowledge to a huge degree which led to mistakes like this.” 38 at page 93.
“Customer environments were very hostile due to product flaws and lack of
proper support or services that led to many to quit after she was let go.” 
·        
38
at page 93. “Lack of proper supervision and teamwork in situations that
demanded more than one person physically and mentally. Ignoring PLAINTIFF's
voice to a degree that the person feels invisible. Bad morals, when Mirko Kimpf
copied and presented her work to the company without her consent when she was
off for two days, despite clear boundaries that were set just to know, Carol
Patel and Alex Loddengard are supporting a thief.” 
·        
38
at page 95. “while it was merely a projection of others’ jealousy, greed,
inferior complexity, fear, shame, inability to learn and cope with her life.
The company perpetuated patterns of greed despite a net worth of 4.5 billion
today.” 
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
Plaintiff Ava Naieini, alleges gender, ethnic and religious
discrimination as an Iranian, Muslim female working in computer/software
technology consulting. Plaintiff maintains management responsible for the
series of events leading to the subject action is the result of their “love of
alcohol and impaired judgment, or hidden sexual and mental disorders that lead
to lower level of awareness, understanding and judgment where subordinates have
to quit, or suffer and tolerate oppression.” Said behavior was also apparently
as a means of disguising technical incompetence and narcissism. The complaint
includes denied time off, payment for only economy class seats “with not enough
legroom” on extensive “coast to coast” flights. 
 
Plaintiff represents to obtain counsel, but due to “national
origin, racial battles in the country and the subconscious bias of the majority
of bias of the majority of attorney that do not yet acknowledge systematic
issues as shifts have not occurred yet” leads to lawyers refusal to take on the
subject action. Plaintiff also contends improper legal rulings striking out
prior iterations of the complaint and unfair treatment of Plaintiff in pro per
has allowed Defendant to effectively block any discovery over the last 15
months of attempting to prosecute the subject action. 
 
On June 29, 2022, Plaintiff, in pro per, filed a complaint
for 1. Economic Duress 2. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress 3.
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress 4. Discrimination in Violation of
Gov’t Code 12940 Et Seq. 5. Harassment In Violation of Gov’t Code 12940, et seq.
6. Retaliation in Violation of Gov’t Code 12940 et seq. 7. Failure to Prevent
Discrimination, Harassment and Retaliation in Violation of Gov’t Code 12940(K)
8. Wrongful Constructive Termination in Violation of Public Policy 9.
Defamation 10. Breach of Covenant of Good Faith And Fair Dealing 11.False
Promises 12.Promissory Fraud 13.Negligence 14.Negligent Misrepresentation
15.Negligent Retention Of Employees. On August 29, 2022, Plaintiff, in pro per
filed a first amended complaint for 1. Economic Duress 2. Recission of Contract
3. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress 4. Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress 5. Failure to Prevent Harassment, Discrimination, or
Retaliation in Violation of Government Code section 12940 6. Harassment In
Violation of Gov’t Code 12940, et seq. 7. Retaliation in Violation of Gov’t
Code 12940 et seq. 8. Wrongful Constructive Termination in Violation of Public
Policy 9. Discrimination in Violation of Government Code section 12940, et.
seq. 10. Defamation 11. Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing 12. Negligence
13. Negligent Supervision of Employees 14. Workplace Harassment. 
 
On October 6 and 10, 2022, the case was transferred from
Department 32 (personal injury) to independent calendar court, Department 68. 
 
On November 23, 2022, the court sustained the unopposed demurrer
of Defendant to the first amended complaint with 60 days leave to amend. The
court also granted the unopposed motion to strike with 60 days leave to amend.
Although Plaintiff submitted a proposed second amended complaint on November
14, 2023, the court declined to consider the second amended complaint at the
time of ruling on the demurrer. On November 30, 2022, Plaintiff filed a second
amended complaint for 1. Economic Duress 2. Recission of Contract 3.
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress 4. Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress 5. Failure to Prevent Harassment, Discrimination, or
Retaliation in Violation of Government Code section 12940 6. Harassment In
Violation of Gov’t Code 12940, et seq. 7. Retaliation in Violation of Gov’t
Code 12940 et seq. 8. Wrongful Constructive Termination in Violation of Public
Policy 9. Discrimination in Violation of Government Code section 12940, et.
seq. 10. Defamation 11. Breach of Covenant of Good Faith And Fair Dealing 12. Negligence
13. Negligent Hiring and Supervision of Employees 14. Workplace Harassment.
 
On March 21, 2023, the court ruled on the demurrer to the 92
page second amended complaint: the court sustained the demurrer to the third,
fourth, fifth, sixth, twelfth and thirteenth causes of action for Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress, Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress,
Failure to Prevent Harassment, Discrimination, or Retaliation in Violation of
Government Code section 12940, Negligence, and Negligent Hiring and Supervision
of Employees, Harassment In Violation of Gov’t Code 12940, et seq., without
leave to amend; and, sustained the demurrer to the seventh, eighth, tenth,
eleventh, and fourteenth causes of action for Retaliation in Violation of Gov’t
Code 12940 et seq., Wrongful Constructive Termination in Violation of Public
Policy, Defamation, Breach of Covenant of Good Faith And Fair Dealing, and,
Workplace Harassment, with 20 days leave to amend. The court granted the motion
to strike Punitive Damages with leave to amend, and the Demand to Recover for
Spine Injuries and the Like and Irrelevant and Improper Statement without leave
to amend.
 
On September 14, 2023, Plaintiff in pro per filed a third
amended complaint for 1. Economic Duress 2. Recission of Contract 3.
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress 4. Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress 5. Failure to Prevent Harassment, Discrimination, or
Retaliation in Violation of Government Code section 12940 6. Harassment In
Violation of Gov’t Code 12940, et seq. 7. Retaliation in Violation of Gov’t
Code 12940 et seq. 8. Wrongful Constructive Termination in Violation of Public
Policy 9. Discrimination in Violation of Government Code section 12940, et.
seq. 10. Defamation 11. Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing 12. Negligence
13. Negligent Hiring and Supervision of Employees 14. Workplace Harassment,
with strikeouts on the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, twelfth, and
thirteenth causes of action. The third amended complaint lacks page numbering,
but totals 87 pages. 
 
On the November 14, 2023, hearing on the demurrer to the
third amended complaint, the court first noted the lack of pagination and
ordered compliance with California Rules of Court, rule 2.109. On the
substance, the court considered an argument under the statute of limitations,
whereby the court found all challenged claims other than the tenth cause of
action for defamation were timely filed and relate back to the original
complaint filing date. The court sustained the demurrer to the tenth cause of
action for defamation without leave to amend on grounds of the statute of
limitations. On the remainder of the operative complaint, the court found no
material changes to the previously challenged cause of action, and sustained
the demurrer with leave to amend to the seventh, eighth, ninth, eleventh, and
fourteenth causes of action for Retaliation in Violation of Gov’t Code 12940 et
seq., Wrongful Constructive Termination in Violation of Public Policy, Discrimination
in Violation of Government Code section 12940, et. seq., Breach of Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealing, and Workplace Harassment. The court also granted
the motion to strike the claim for punitive damages, demand to recover for spine
injuries and the like, and irrelevant and improper Statement without leave to
amend. 
 
On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff, in pro per, filed a fourth
amended complaint for 1. Economic Duress 2. Recission of Contract 3.
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress 4. Negligent Infliction of
Emotional Distress 5. Failure to Prevent Harassment, Discrimination, or
Retaliation in Violation of Government Code section 12940 6. Harassment In
Violation of Gov’t Code 12940, et seq. 7. Retaliation in Violation of Gov’t
Code 12940 et seq. 8. Wrongful Constructive Termination in Violation of Public
Policy 9. Discrimination in Violation of Government Code section 12940, et.
seq. 10. Defamation 11. Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing 12. Negligence
13. Negligent Hiring and Supervision of Employees 14. Workplace Harassment,
with strikeouts on the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, tenth, twelfth, and
thirteenth causes of action. The fourth amended complaint totals 72 pages of
allegations, with 39 pages of new exhibits including “exhibit 4” and “exhibit
5” constituting the “Defendants” section in paragraphs 1-11 and the “factual
background” section in paragraphs 13-41, which are not incorporated into the
introductory paragraphs of the operative complaint. 
 
On January 10, 2024, the court sent notice of case
reassignment to the new judicial officer. The court held a case management
conference on March 7, 2024. Plaintiff was present; Defendant was not. On April
22, 2024, Plaintiff, in pro per, filed a 170.6 peremptory challenge, which was
rejected on April 23, 2024, as untimely. On April 24, 2024, Plaintiff in pro
per, filed a 170.1/170.3 challenging impartiality, asserting a lack of
qualification, and maintain a violation of the law. On April 29, 2024, the court
issued an order striking the statement of disqualification. The court
electronic filing system shows no writ of mandate filed within the presented
challenge period.
 
RULING
Demurrer: Sustained
with Leave to Amend.
Defendant Confluent, Inc. (Confluent) brings a demurrer to
the sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, eleventh, and fourteenth causes of action
for Harassment in Violation of Gov’t Code 12940, et seq., Retaliation in
Violation of Gov’t Code 12940 et seq., Wrongful Constructive Termination in
Violation of Public Policy, Discrimination in Violation of Government Code
section 12940, et. seq., Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, and
Workplace Harassment. Confluent maintains the operative complaint continues to
lack facts after four attempts and three rulings finding insufficient facts.
Confluence also raises argument on ground of failure to exhaust administrative
remedies and the statute of limitations. 
 
Plaintiff in opposition appears to have copied portions
Confluent’s points and authorities in support of the demurrer, with graphical
lines and interlineations, including arrows and “x” marks offering statements apparently
disagreeing with the presented argument and accusing confluent of improper
conduct both at the office and in legal proceedings. On April 30, 2024, four
calendar days and two court days later than the opposition due date, Plaintiff
filed an “amended opposition” to the demurrer and motion to strike. The
non-paginated 281-page pleading consists of 15 pages of argument, and 266 pages
of exhibits, and an amended declaration summarizing the proceedings and
opinions of Plaintiff. On the same date, Plaintiff also filed a notice of
errata and correction. This submission constitutes a paginated document opening
with a purported submission of a complaint to the Commission of Judicial
Performance as to the “former Judge,” and a summary of outstanding discovery
and other conduct precluding the presentation of facts regarding the state of
the pleadings. Plaintiff also asserts perjury to the court by Confluent.
 
The amended opposition was filed on the same date as
Confluent filed two notices of non-opposition to the demurrer and motion to
strike. Confluent also cites to the “three-limit rule” for amended pleadings as
grounds for sustaining the demurrer without leave to amend and the motion to
strike with prejudice.
 
On May 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed a response to the notice of
non-opposition. Plaintiff challenges the “baseless claims” of the demurrer, and
requests the court consider the opposition on the merits. 
 
On the substantive argument, within both the amended
opposition and notice of corrected opposition, Plaintiff maintains Confluent
continues to “hide evidence,” the “former judge” was “negligent” due to a
“financial interest in extending the proceedings,” thereby encouraging further
abusive, repetitive legal process without justice. This is in addition to the
later representation of the report to the Commission on Judicial Performance. Plaintiff
also asserts the court failed to consider the complaint because of in pro per
status and written by a foreign national, thereby depriving Plaintiff of due
process. Plaintiff then transitions to 44 individual statements including pay
disparity, wrongful denial of expenses, denied time off requests, assignment of
menial tasks, all said purported wrongful behavior arising from gender,
national origin, religion, and a general enmity to tolerance of differing
views. Plaintiff also dedicates significant pages to alleged outstanding
discovery purportedly inhibiting better presentation of the claims. Again, the
second opposition contains further charges of actual perjury by defense counsel
to the court. 
 
The court first notes that while Plaintiff contends unfair
treatment as a pro per appearing party, the court is not required to extend
special treatment to such parties. (Gamet v. Blanchard (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th
1276, 1284–1285.) Regardless, given the court now reviews the subject
pleading after three prior successful challenges, where statutory authority
compels a finding of an inability to state a claim after two court reviews, it
appears the court has exercised careful and substantial discretion in allowing
Plaintiff an opportunity to plead any and all claims. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41,
subd. (e)(1) [“In response to a demurrer and prior to
the case being at issue, a complaint or cross-complaint shall not be amended
more than three times, absent an offer to the trial court as to such additional
facts to be pleaded that there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be
cured to state a cause of action”].) The court reviews the case under
the same standards as a represented party, including equal review under the law
with an understanding regarding certain ignorance of legal procedure expected
of a licensed attorney. (Petrosyan v. Prince Corp. (2013) 223 Cal.App.4th 587, 594.) 
 
As for both the quantity and lateness of the filings, the court
in its discretion may disregard late filed and documents exceeding page limits.
In other words, the court may forego consideration of both late filed and
essentially redundant sets of opposition arguments on grounds of excessive
pages for points and authorities and untimeliness, in that allowing for later, extra
argument against the demurrer unfairly deprives Confluent of the opportunity to
timely respond. Notwithstanding these noticed issues, the court elects to
consider the argument under the addressed governing public policy for parties
appearing in pro per.
 
On the statute of limitations argument, the court previously
ruled that all but one of the challenged claims were timely. The court declines
to again consider the prior, overruled arguments, or any new potential statute
of limitations not raised in any of the three prior challenges. The court also
finds the failure to exhaust administrative remedies constitutes a new argument
not previously raised. Nothing in the demurrer otherwise establishes new
allegations thereby potentially supporting this argument (as opposed to seeking
a motion to strike new allegations, even if applicable). Thus, the court
declines to consider this argument as well. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (b).)
The court will therefore only address the factual sufficiency of the fourth
amended complaint. 
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see
also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a
pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . . .” ’ ” (Berkley v.
Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In applying these standards, the
court liberally construes the complaint to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated. (Picton v. Anderson
Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
“A demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616; Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139 [“[U]nder our liberal pleading rules,
where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently
apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for
uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.]
 
The court declines to consider any release agreement or the
circumstances of any execution in that it’s extrinsic to the operative
complaint and therefore the demurrer standard. The court also declines to
consider the 266 pages of exhibits incorporated into the amended oppositions
unless expressly incorporated into the operative complaint, as such items are
also extrinsic to consideration of the operative pleading.
 
6th Cause of Action: Harassment in Violation of
Gov’t Code 12940, et seq.
Confluent tersely contends Plaintiff lacks facts supporting
a claim for sexual harassment. Plaintiff in opposition cites to purported
examples of said sexual harassment. The unnumbered paragraphs under the
identified cause of action essentially lists a series of comments by
colleagues. The court first addresses the standard for sexual harassment. 
 
“Whether
the sexual conduct complained of is sufficiently pervasive to create a hostile
or offensive work environment must be determined from the totality of the
circumstances. (Citation.) The plaintiff must prove that the defendant's conduct
would have interfered with a reasonable employee's7 work performance and
would have seriously affected the psychological well-being of a reasonable
employee and that she was actually offended.” [¶] “The factors that can be
considered in evaluating the totality of the circumstances are: (1) the nature
of the unwelcome sexual acts or works (generally, physical touching is more
offensive than unwelcome verbal abuse); (2) the frequency of the offensive
encounters; (3) the total number of days over which all of the offensive
conduct occurs; and (4) the context in which the sexually harassing conduct
occurred.” [¶] “In determining what constitutes “sufficiently pervasive”
harassment, the courts have held that acts of harassment cannot be occasional,
isolated, sporadic, or trivial, rather the plaintiff must show a concerted
pattern of harassment of a repeated, routine or a generalized nature.” (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590, 609–610.)
 
The court quotes the substantive allegations:
 
“During orientation, this individual followed the plaintiff
around to speak to her and talked about himself the whole time. At lunch sat
across from the plaintiff and harassed her about the very well known Iran
global isolated situation, women’s rights, leadership and its politics as he
was in the Army and participated in the Iraq war. Ms. Naeini gracefully moved
on. He continued and pulled Rahul Bhattacharya towards himself and together
they made an inside joke about the situation and laughed and poisoned the mood.
Plaintiff turned away, couldn’t eat and didn’t feel she was surrounded by
healthy individuals.”
 
“‘Jack of all trades master of none’ - This comment has a
negative connotation and the intention behind it was belittling someone’s
skills when you see someone is doing better than you, knows more than you and
the individual is a woman. The person who said this is both racist and sexist
and has a history of harassment in incident 1 report.”
 
“This individual is toxically competitive and had 0 field
experience as he was very young (22 years old). When Ms. Naeini was walking
down on narrow steps next to the lead and having a conversation as any two
experienced staff would have he walked right into her feet with 0 space that
she was about to fall and when she looked back he distanced himself but
repeated this behavior. These behavioral issues are abnormal, stem from sexism,
narcissism and lack of respect for women. Wisdom knows that customer site wasn’t
a place for such confrontations, or a psychological therapy session so Ms.
Naeini chose to maintain the professional image proper at that time.”
 
“‘I can handle women older than you’ with aggression after
Ms. Naeini mentioned to him the girl at the register is beautiful/cute - From a
conscious perspective, this is an insult to women and her age and the comment
is very sexist, rude and disrespectful to one’s dignity. Ms. Naeini didn’t even
know how to respond to such an offense and was frozen for the rest of the night
and her nervous system was shocked by this rude individual. Clearly the
narcissistic misogynistic work environment supported such offense towards women
that he went this far to insult a FOURTH AMENDED COMPLAINT 38 woman older than
him that mentored him for calling another woman beautiful. This person should
be fired.”
 
“‘Why are you at the happy hour and not at work’ This
malicious individual interrupted the plaintiff's conversations and prior to
that this same person refused to engage in in-depth technical conversations
rather talked only to harass - He is sexist and he assumes women are objects
and lack a brain to understand men and their motives. Please consider the
context in the judgment. This was ill-willed and when plaintiff told him to
stop, he retaliated with her manager, Vaibhav Mathur, against her who made comments
about plaintiff behavior and was twisted. These were hindu disbelievers who
have no morals and come from a culture that values women the least.”
 
“Pointing at a corona beer at the table saying ‘Drink Covid’.
This individual has never talked to the plaintiff [] prior to this and this was
his first conversation so harassment and death wishes were his language.”
 
Nothing in the language supports any direct sexual
harassment. The court therefore considers the hostile environment standard. “Courts have concluded that a hostile work environment
existed where there was a pattern of continuous, pervasive harassment.” (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital, supra, 214 Cal.App.3d at p. at p. 611.) The subject
allegations lack any actual factual description of sexually inappropriate
conduct or comment under the standard. Distasteful social behavior perhaps
objectively characterized as rude and insensitive, still lacks any actual
establishment of sexually inappropriate behavior. Conclusions and assumptions
of sexism intermixed with opinions on intelligence and qualifications in no way
objectively supports a factual finding for harassment. (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital, supra, 214 Cal.App.3d at pp. 613-614.) The demurrer is
sustained.
 
7th Cause of Action: Retaliation in Violation of
Gov’t Code 12940 et seq.
Confluent again challenges the claim on a lack of facts.
Plaintiff again provides a list of examples of “protected activities” thereby
underpinning the claim for retaliatory conduct. 
 
“To
establish a prima facie case of retaliation, a plaintiff must show that she
engaged in a protected activity, that she was thereafter subjected to adverse
employment action by her employer, and there was a causal link between the two.”
(Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital, supra, 214 Cal.App.3d at p. 614.) “[C]ourts
considering the question of what constitutes
an adverse employment action for purposes of a statutory
retaliation claim have uniformly held an intermediate retaliatory employment
action may suffice: ‘The legislative purpose underlying FEHA's prohibition
against retaliation is to prevent employers from deterring employees from
asserting good faith discrimination complaints, and the use of intermediate
retaliatory actions may certainly have this effect.’ (Citations.) However,
courts also have been united in the view that an employer's intermediate
decision or action ‘constitutes actionable retaliation only if it had a
substantial and material adverse effect on the terms and conditions of the
plaintiff's employment.’ (Citations.)” (Pinero
v. Specialty Restaurants Corp. (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 635, 641.) A
pattern of conduct, rather than a single incident can support a finding of
adverse employment. (Yanowitz v. L'Oreal
USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1056.)
 
The court again reviews each and every operative
unnumbered paragraph under the seventh cause of action heading. 
 
“Protected Activity: Plaintiff reached out to HR
after she was harassed by her manager, Vaibhav Mathur in an email. She reported
ongoing discrimination, harassment, and lack of time off manager mistakes. HR
was very well of supervisor poor behavior. 
Retaliation: HR along with a team of management
retaliated and created a fake excessive performance plan with an intention of
ending her employment on the basis and Carol Patel lied to her that this a
promotion plan. She got fired.”
 
“Protected Activity: Plaintiff clearly communicated
in front of two other employees to the harasser, Sanjay Garde that she
shouldn’t be harassed and made fun of in front of other team members and her
presence in a happy hour shouldn’t be questioned with inappropriate jokes to
lower her worth. Retaliation: The harasser Sanjay Garde retaliated and
character assassinated her with her manager who was already a poisonous man and
the manager retaliated and complained to the plaintiff about her behavior in an
email. This is oppression and HR became aware and did nothing and fired her
instead right after.”
 
“Protected Activity: Plaintiff reached out to Russ
Wargin, after Vaibhav showed emails from Carol to Alex during the performance
plan where Carol was backstabbing. Ms. Naeini complained the issue that she has
problems with understanding the scope and is lying and harassing her behind her
back with the lead to get her fired despite her delivering the excessive
assignments.
 
Retaliation: Russ decided to retaliate and twisted her words
and reported her truthful comments such as “Americans are free thinkers and
Indians are not necessarily the same and she doesn’t live in India rather
America so she doesn’t have to deal with a non diverse performance committee of
patel families who devalue women and are behind and her manager should not
backstab her”. He twisted it and said he is uncomfortable with the truth and
got her fired. This same individual would share his personal problems with the
plaintiff and make personal comments about the plaintiff's family to gain her
trust, follow her around similar to other harassers then ask for her ideas like
cloud strategy and break her trusts by backstabbing. All his motives were
coming from a dark place. He is a snake and very rude man imprisoned by his
demons.”
 
“Protected Activity: Plaintiff complained to HR that she is
being removed from the project as there are harassing and malicious individuals
on the customer site. As one of the customers that had very bad technologies
and was the plaintiff previous employer decided to remove her from the project
and also the secretary of JPL harassed the plaintiff and she was removed from
that project. Retaliation: Carol Patel retaliated and brought up both of these
instances during the performance plan to pollute the air even though she knew
those people are not part of the projects as both were HR of the customer and
had no role and merely were malicious jealous women with lower caliber and
lower value like herself. So she chose to Individuals very low level of dignity
who would die to be in the plaintiff's shoes and couldn’t be, therefore they
decided to ruin her opportunities with gossip. Carol loved to do that as she
was the puppet master and not only damaged JPL or Hallmark Labs projects but
also ruined the plaintiff's opportunities. Masses were impacted by misconduct
of Carol Patel and the rest of the management, as plaintiff was a leading voice
who held the torch and wouldn’t tolerate her nonsense and keep moving and she
keeps popping up and repeating her abuse along with other toxic teammates.”
 
The court finds the assumption of protected conduct lacks
sufficient support. The vagueness of the underlying basis for the complaints,
especially when considered in context of the sexual harassment cause of action,
undermines a conclusion of truly protected conduct. “‘As
our high court has explained, “complaints about personal grievances or vague or
conclusory remarks that fail to put an employer on notice as to what conduct it
should investigate will not suffice to establish protected conduct.” (Citation.)’” (Dinslage v. City and County of San Francisco (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 368, 384.) 
 
Even assuming the complaints made to Human Resources
constitute protected activities for purposes of the subject cause of action,
the court finds a lack of any adverse employment action. Again, Plaintiff
relies on conclusions of personal animus manifested as transfers out of
projects and establishment of performance goals. While the court acknowledges
the unmade but potentially articulated pretextual nature of the conduct, the
court finds such conduct in and of itself lacks any support for the finding of
an adverse employment action. (Pinero v.
Specialty Restaurants Corp., supra, 130 Cal.App.4th at pp. 641-642, 646-647.)
The demurrer is sustained.
 
8th Cause of Action: Wrongful Constructive
Termination in Violation of Public Policy
Confluent challenges the claim on lack of factual support.
Plaintiff recites general statements of discrimination. The court notes that
Plaintiff both alleges being actually fired, yet alleges constructive
termination. The internal conflict renders the claim invalid. The court
considers the legal standard regardless.
 
“In order to sustain a claim of
wrongful discharge in violation of fundamental public policy, Turner must prove
that his dismissal violated a policy that is (1) fundamental,[] (2) beneficial for the
public,[] and (3) embodied in a statute or constitutional provision.”
(Turner v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1238, 1256.) The court selectively
quotes the operative complaint in order to convey the material basis of the
claims, while limiting the voluminous redundant allegations.
 
“Promotion: Both Supervisors Vaihbah Mathur and Carol Patel
promised and refused promotions while she promoted others. Carol would avoid
the conversation and disappear to drag her along. Project activities: Carol
Patel refused to give the plaintiff time to participate in project activities
that others were entitled to and discriminated towards her. She refused to
trust her. She hired plaintiff for her image as a women supporter yet chose to
abuse her and treat her like a child and when she realized plaintiff can’t be
used in this manner, fired her. The worst in the picture is this woman and
should pay for her psychological abuse towards her. ...”
 
“Individuals in priority order who deserve to be fired since
they violated equal opportunity policy and/or supported violators, and/or
harassed, and/or discriminated against plaintiff and were not discharged: 1.
Russ Wargin - Project Manager - Theft, hate crime, misconduct, negligence,
sexism, racism, ignorance 2. Carol Patel - Supervisor/manager - Theft, Racism,
sexism, misconduct, harassment, ignorance, failure to preventing misconduct,
supporting misconduct 3. Mirko Kimpf - Solution Architect- Theft, pursuing
plaintiff to repeat theft, racism 4. Mickey Heneyn - Director - Misconduct,
failure at leadership, racism, failure to prevent harassment, promoting
misconduct such as excessive drinking, failure to prevent misconduct, poor
performance 5. Kirby Frank - Project Manager - Harassment, racism, sexism,
misconduct, ignorance, poor performance 6. Vaibhav Mathur - Supervisor/Manager
- Sexism, ignorance, harassment, misconduct Sanjay Garde - Solution Architect -
Harassment, sexism, ignorance 7. Thomas Arneman - Project Manager - Poor
performance leading to misconduct, promoting misconduct such as excessive
drinking 8. Preeya Patel - Human Resources - Poor performance, failure at
preventing misconduct such as harassment and discrimination as part of duties
9. Jose Umana - Solution Architect - Ignorance, racism, harassment 10. John
Horvers - Consulting engineering- Misconduct, harassment 11. Alex Loddengard -
Lead - Supporting Theft, misconduct, hoarding projects and blocking others 12.
Eric Grindle - Project Manager - Negligence, misconduct 13. Matt Mangia -
Solution Architect - Discrimination, poor performance when it comes to
mentorship and lacking true knowledge and using the “white privilege” to
eliminate others and delay their success.”
 
“1- She didn’t have a leadership title and 0 power of voice
2- She was one woman among 50+ men in an unhealthy environment 3- She didn’t
have the so known “white privilege” 4- She was younger than the management who
were narcissists with bullish tendencies and were corrupt.”
 
Again, the court finds no actual conduct related to a
fundamental violation of public policy under the pled facts. Opinions and
conclusions, especially regarding personal habits or moral judgment, lack
objective support of wrongful conduct leading to termination. The demurrer is
sustained. 
 
9th Cause of Action: Discrimination in Violation
of Government Code section 12940, et. seq.
The court again considers the sufficiency of the allegations
under the standard. A party must show “that show that
discrimination was a substantial motivating factor, rather than simply a motivating factor, more
effectively ensures that liability will not be imposed based on evidence of
mere thoughts or passing statements unrelated to the disputed employment
decision. At the same time, for reasons explained above, proof that
discrimination was a substantial factor in an employment decision triggers the deterrent
purpose of the FEHA and thus exposes the employer to liability, even if other
factors would have led the employer to make the same decision at the time.” (Harris v. City of Santa Monica
(2013) 56 Cal.4th 203, 232.) 
 
The court quotes substantial,
selected portions of the operative unnumbered paragraphs under the subject
challenged cause of action. 
 
“Plaintiff was promised a solution architect role as she had
9 years of experience at the time of hire and had the qualification of that
role. Carol promoted others and refused to have a conversation about it and in
month 18 she was fired and she lied about the performance plan being a
promotion plan and kept the plaintiff in a limbo state and worked her out. Even
after she was terminated male individuals plaintiffs mentored with 0 experience
who were just out of college were promoted into the role that she was promised.
This is a clear example of discrimination, the plaintiff was above and beyond
qualified and was refused opportunities to obtain power due to her potential
for extreme success that made others jealous. The personal reasons of the
defendant and her story and excuses doesn’t change the fact that the plaintiff
was discriminated against. Vaibhav Mathur the other manager had a gang of
indian boys around him and would completely dismiss the plaintiff's concerns
and would not hear her. This is due to gender bias that’s common knowledge when
it comes to work culture in Indian communities.”
 
“People had a diverse group of projects and this was
documented in google spreadsheet by name Ms. Naeini constantly was assigned to
the same type of projects for her learning to be limited and she kept asking to
shadow more experienced staff and work on other customer offerings and she was
refused by her manager to limit her exposure to collaborative opportunities and
prevent her from teamwork that leads to greater success. Discovery will prove
this.”
 
“This individual orally told plaintiff ownership and
leadership of a project can’t be given to the plaintiff when the project was at
infancy and the plaintiff wanted to lead it. Instead she went and supported
Mirko who stole this project before and presented it to the team without
plaintiff consent after plaintiff clearly warned him not to take any actions or
setup calls on this without discussing it with her. Manager discriminated and
others were involved.”
 
“Everyone had a week long time to dedicate to their left
over work, self development, side project, research. Carol refused to give Ms.
Naeini that week and asked her to help others instead. While others were able
to work on their project and present it to the team. Plaintiff project was
quite extensive yet management didn’t give her time, or resources and assumed
she was unable to finish it as they were ignorant in the field of knowledge of
AI. Plaintiff has extensive academia and industry experience in Machine
Learning and Computer Vision.”
 
“Discriminating towards her by making bogus comments that
come from lack of knowledge and a pure assumption that women are dumb and can’t
finish tasks. Not understanding this project requires a team and proper
planning and time because he was very uneducated in the field of AI and ML and
Confluent and merely used aggressive tones to inject his “influence” and attack
the plaintiff by using a condescending intimidating language orally and in
writing.”
 
“Plaintiff was among the first who came up with the idea of
Kafkadoc as an innovation project and wrote a prototype. She was a leading
voice in innovation and had worked on various ideas and workshops that shaped
the future delivery of professional services in a new way that some European
managers adored yet due to jealousy and discrimination when a few members of
her team decided to create a subdivision for innovation they didn’t even care
to discuss it with her and this was very discouraging. When exceptional
minority individuals with high potential and proven experience are excluded
discrimination is born. Plaintiff knew that this aim was intentional to exclude
her voice and block her growth opportunities to keep her small.”
 
“Cloud strategy was a white paper plaintiff wrote and Russ
asked about it in a slack message, later on she saw a page in the internal wiki
by Michael and Vaibhav named Cloud Strategy and when she reached out to Vaibhav
about it, he told her she can’t work on it in writing. This idea was something
she came up with, she wrote about it first. There is not only theft of ideas
here there is clear discrimination that they assume they can work on her ideas,
read her white paper, develop their own out of it, not give her any credit,
block her after taking her power, deplete her without any acknowledgement and
recognition to demote her. This is the reason the cause of action of
discrimination exists and is prohibited. They demonstrated the exact actions in
the cause. They are immoral individuals who promote the lowest frequency of
theft and stupidity on earth and in the cosmos and must be punished.”
 
“Software Engineers or Solutions Architects had twice stock
options and twice salary and her worth was never ever half of them. She had two
masters degrees and 8 years of Software Engineering experience in fortune 500
companies such as Salesforce as a senior software engineer.”
 
“Plaintiff was refused time off twice despite her back pain
and company unlimited policy. Vaibhav refused her birthday week time off which
was harsh. She didn’t even have a two-week vacation after a year and half of
employment. The norm in her field for her experience is 4-6 weeks per year
because the job is very demanding. Management knew about her back pain and
didn’t care and favored other boys on the team who were on the same
discriminatory wavelength and had personal or racial grudges towards people of
her race, color, culture, gender, etc. They can disclose their reasons during
deposition and discovery and identify those who were more privileged than her
and were entitled to rest, sleep or higher pay when she wasn’t. This is how
immigrants are being overworked and get sick and eventually die faster under
oppression.”
 
“In two incidents Carol and another sales manager refused to
ask the plaintiff for her order. This happened during team dinners after a hard
day at work and Carol asked other boys on the team in front of her when three
of them had an engagement together and fully skipped over her. This was done on
purpose because Carol never valued her as she is an ignorant oppressor. The
Sales manager did the exact same thing, made eye contact with her and when she
was taking orders asked the same two gentlemen and skipped over her. The
company culture devalued her as an ethical woman and proof is already
understood by a conscious mind here.”
 
Again, assumptions and racial stereotyping of different
ethnicities and opinions of alleged unfair treatment of immigrant labor in no
way demonstrates racially discriminatory conduct. The remainder of the conduct
expresses displeasure with work assignments rather than factual articulation of
wrongful conduct. The court sustains the demurrer. 
 
11th Cause of Action: Breach of Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing
Confluent challenges the subject claim on grounds of no
identified contractual agreement. Plaintiff responds with a series of
allegations regarding management, without substantially addressing the
fundamental question regarding the contractual basis. 
 
“Every
contract contains an implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing providing
that no party to the contract will do anything that would deprive another party
of the benefits of the contract. (Citations.) The implied covenant protects the reasonable
expectations of the contracting parties based on their mutual promises. (Citations.) The scope of
conduct prohibited by the implied covenant depends on the purposes and express
terms of the contract. (Citation.) Although breach of the implied covenant often is pleaded
as a separate count, a breach of the implied covenant is necessarily a breach
of contract.” (Digerati Holdings, LLC v. Young
Money Entertainment, LLC (2011) 194
Cal.App.4th 873, 885.)
 
Again, the operative complaint and Plaintiff literally lack
any address for the fundamental basis of the claim—the contract. The court
declines to consider a claim without the required underlying foundation. The
demurrer is sustained.
 
14th Cause of Action: Workplace Harassment
Confluent again challenges the substance of the claims, with
Plaintiff relying on the unnumbered paragraphs of the operative complaint. 
 
“Under
the FEHA, it is unlawful ‘[f]or an employer ... or any other person, because of
... national origin ... [or] age ... to harass an employee ....’ (Citation.) To
establish a prima facie case of a hostile work environment, [Plaintiff] must
show that (1) she is a member of a protected class; (2) she was subjected to
unwelcome harassment; (3) the harassment was based on her protected status; (4)
the harassment unreasonably interfered with her work performance by creating an
intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment; and (5) defendants are
liable for the harassment.” (Ortiz v. Dameron Hospital Assn. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 568, 581.)
 
Plaintiff specifically incorporates the sixth cause of
action, with additional allegations:
 
“Inappropriate or rude comments - ... for incidents and
frequency Personal humiliation - ... for incidents and frequency Overly
critical remarks - Management Vaibhav Mathur insulted plaintiff intelligence
abilities when she was not given anytime to work on the project and was being
abusive. Ostracizing behaviors - Manager and members - Repeatedly ignoring
conversation about the promotion 5 times in chat messages. Not offering food.
Not including her in the innovation org conversations. Intimidation tactics -
Manager Vaibhav Mathurt chose to question the plaintiff's performance because
he made a mistake and sold the wrong package then projected his fear of failure
and his inferior complexity into the plaintiff, spoke aggressively and put her
on a performance plan to end her employment.”
 
“Harassing and pursuing the plaintiff to fully hand off her
project to a Mirko(thief) twice. This happened after she clearly communicated
to managers that she is uncomfortable with working with him so Carol and Alex
reached out again and she feld harassed as she had to repeat herself twice and
was being chased by a thief.”
 
“During her performance plan Carol Patel harassed plaintiff
for her removal from Hallmark labs project knowing the reason simply to ruin
her image. Plaintiff used to work at Hallmark Labs and that customer is a
serious abuser with instances of workplace harassment, verbal and physical
assault, and sexual harassment. Mickey Heneyn communicated to the plaintiff
that there is no reason besides the fact that they don’t want previous
employees. HR there was Kim Mccune who saw her during engagements and she has a
history of serious abuse towards the plaintiff in the previous employment and
violated her.”
 
“During her performance plan this woman harassed the
plaintiff for not following around the JPL doorman to see the Mars Rover that
she already saw while she was in the middle of writing a report that was due
soon. Plaintiff understood the level of unreasonability, manipulation and
unethical approach of this woman to eliminate her and was speechless.”
 
“During her performance plan this woman harassed the
plaintiff for not following around the JPL doorman to see the Mars Rover that
she already saw while she was in the middle of writing a report that was due
soon. Plaintiff understood the level of unreasonability, manipulation and
unethical approach of this woman to eliminate her and was speechless.”
 
Again, the allegations appear to involve claims relating to
personnel decisions for assignment and advancement without sufficient factual
grounding to Plaintiff’s gender, race or nationality as the basis for said
harassment other than accusations of misogyny. The demurrer is sustained.
 
The court acknowledges Plaintiff’s argument in presenting
the large number of exhibits as support to either allow the case to proceed or
as a basis for further leave to amend due to said potential outstanding
discovery. In reviewing the course of the prior court orders as well as the
latest complaint, the court finds Plaintiff presents all potential operative
facts in support as experienced during the relevant employment period. The 500+
pages of opposition lack actual support for what Plaintiff intends to discover
in support of the remaining causes of action. The court finds no basis for a
determination that even if Confluent were wrongfully withholding information,
said outstanding discovery would yield support for the previously found legally
unsupported claims. The court therefore finds Plaintiff effectively concedes the
inability to pled any and all of the subject claims after five prior attempts.
In the three reviews by the court before the subject motion, the court found no
material changes to the underlying factual support after multiple grants of
leave. The court again finds no sufficient factual updates. The court therefore
concludes that Plaintiff lacks the ability to plead the subject claims and
sustains the demurrer without leave to amend. The standard for demurrer
therefore compels dismissal of the causes of action. (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (e)(1); Youngman v. Nevada Irr. Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d
240, 245.)
 
Motion to Strike: MOOT.
 
Confluent to submit a proposed judgment. 
 
Defendant Confluent to give notice to all parties.
 