 On August 26, 2024, Plaintiff Tigran Galstyan filed the operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) against Defendants Wing Lai, Chi Man Wong, and Allstate Insurance Company for (1) negligence, (2) trespass, (3) private nuisance, (4) violation of Health & Safety Code § 13007, et seq., (5) promissory estoppel/fraud, (6) negligent misrepresentation, (7) concealment, (8) violation of UCL, and (9) “tort of another”.  Among other things, Plaintiff alleges that his real property was destroyed by a fire originating from Defendant Lai’s property and that Defendant Allstate lied that it would not pursue Plaintiff  with a subrogation claim.  DemurrerDefendant Allstate Insurance Company now demurs to the TAC for failure to state sufficient facts.  The fifth through ninth causes of action are asserted against Allstate.When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.) The fifth through eighth causes of action assert that Allstate fraudulently or negligently asserted that it would not assert a subrogation claim against Plaintiff.  Alternatively, Plaintiff asserts that the intent to assert a subrogation claim was concealed.  Plaintiff asserts that this damaged him because such statements or omissions resulted in Plaintiff not obtaining an investigator at an earlier time before crucial evidence was destroyed; Plaintiff must now face the subrogation suit without this evidence.  Plaintiff also alleges that Allstate’s lawsuit forced him to sell his property.“The elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal. 4th 631, 638, internal quotation marks omitted.)  Moreover, “fraud must be pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice. [Citations] Thus the policy of liberal construction of the pleadings . . . will not ordinarily be invoked to sustain a pleading defective in any material respect.  This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.  (Id. at p. 645, internal quotation marks omitted.)  Where fraud is pled against a corporation, Plaintiff must “allege the names of the persons making the allegedly fraudulent representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written.” (Tarmann v. State Farm Mutual Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)“Negligent misrepresentation is a form of deceit, the elements of which consist of (1) a misrepresentation of a past or existing material fact, (2) without reasonable grounds for believing it to be true, (3) with intent to induce another's reliance on the fact misrepresented, (4) ignorance of the truth and justifiable reliance thereon by the party to whom the misrepresentation was directed, and (5) damages.”  (Fox v. Pollack (1986) 181 Cal. App. 3d 954, 962.)A negligent misrepresentation claim should also be pleaded with specificity.  (Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 185, fn. 14.) Here, the fifth and seventh causes of action for fraud/concealment are deficient because Plaintiff failed to specifically plead facts indicating fraudulent intent.  Further, the sixth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation is defective because courts do not recognize a negligent false promise or omission as an actionable form of deceit.  (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 159; RSB Vineyards, LLC v. Orsi (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 1089, 1102.)  Lastly, the UCL claim is merely derivative of the other unsuccessful claims, and the “tort of another” claim is not a “cause of action”, but rather a theory to support a request for attorneys’ fees. For all these reasons, the Demurrer is sustained, without leave to amend, particularly as the TAC is the fourth iteration of the complaint. Motion to StrikeGiven the ruling on the above demurrer, Allstate’s Motion to Strike is denied as moot.Moving party to give notice.