  Case Number:  23STLC06603    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  26  
Comer v. NJS Construction, Inc., et al.MOTION TO VACATE DEFAULT(CCP §§ 473(a)(1))
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
Defendant Jack Saiege’s Motion to
Vacate Entry of Default is GRANTED. DEFENDANT JACK SAIEGE IS TO FILE AND SERVE
A RESPONSIVE PLEADING TO THE COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
                                                                                                                                
ANALYSIS:
 
On October 16, 2023, Plaintiff John Comer (“Plaintiff”)
filed the instant action against Defendants NJS Construction Inc (“Defendant
NJS”) and Jack Saiege (“Defendant Saiege”). Following Defendant Saiege’s
failure to file a responsive pleading, the Court entered his default on January
25, 2024. 
 
Defendant Saiege filed the instant Motion to Vacate Entry of
Default on March 25, 2024. Plaintiff filed an untimely opposition on April 8,
2024 and Defendant Saiege replied on April 16, 2024. The reply sought a short
continuance to allow for a response on the merits. At the hearing on April 23,
2024, the Court continued the matter to May 29, 2024. (Minute Order, 04/23/24.)
Defendant Saiege filed a substantive reply on May 3, 2024 and Plaintiff filed a
supplemental declaration on May 15, 2024. Defendant Saiege then filed a
supplemental reply on May 22, 2024. 
 
To the extent Defendant Saiege objects to Plaintiff’s
supplemental declaration, the Court finds he had an opportunity to respond to
it in the supplemental reply such that there is no prejudice. Therefore, the
Court will consider all the papers filed by the parties. 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant Saiege moves for an order vacating the entry of
default dated January 25, 2024 due to improper service of the Summons and
Complaint. The Motion is brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
473, subdivision (a)(1), which states that “[t]he court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on any terms as may be proper . . . enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer.” (Code Civ. Code, § 473, subd. (a)(1).) The Motion further relies on
the service statute set forth at Code of Civil Procedure section 415.20 to
argue that service did not comply with the requirements for substitute service.

 
“When a defendant
challenges the court’s personal
jurisdiction on the ground of improper service of process ‘the burden is on the
plaintiff to prove the existence of jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the
facts requisite to an effective service.’”  (Summers v. McClanahan (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 403, 413.) A proof of service containing a declaration from a
registered process server invokes a rebuttable presumption affecting the
burden of producing evidence, of the facts stated in the return. (Cal.
Evid. Code, § 647; see American Express Centurion Bank v. Zara (2011)
199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390.) The party seeking to defeat service of process must
present sufficient evidence to show that the service did not take place as
stated.  (See Palm Property Investments, LLC v. Yadegar (2011) 194
Cal.App.4th 1419, 1428; cf. People
v. Chavez (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1471, 1483 [“If some fact be presumed, the opponent of that fact bears
the burden of producing or going forward with evidence sufficient to overcome
or rebut the presumed fact.”].)  Merely
denying service took place without more is insufficient to overcome the
presumption.  (See Yadegar, supra, 194 Cal.App.4th
at 1428.)
 
The proof of substitute service filed on January 2, 2024 is
attested to by a registered process server thereby placing the burden of
producing evidence overcoming the truth of the facts in the return upon
Defendant Saiege. (Proof of Service, filed 01/02/24, ¶7.) The proof of
substitute service attests that Defendant Saiege was sub-served by leaving the
papers at 23705 Vanowen St., #152, West Hills, California on November 8, 2023
with Adrian P., the owner of the post office box business. (Id. at
¶¶4-5.) The proof of service also indicates that this sub-service was
effectuated because “physical address unknown.” (Id. at ¶5(b)(3).)
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 415.20, subdivision (a)
allows for service at a defendant’s usual mailing address, if no physical
address is known. Although Defendant Saige first argues that this usual mailing
address cannot include a commercial mail receiving agency (“CMRA”) because the
statute expressly excludes United States Postal Service post office boxes, the
Court finds this exclusion does not encompass CMRAs. The statute, in
subdivision (c) specifically refers to CMRAs but subdivision (a) uses the exact
phrase “United States Postal Service post office box.” Given that the statute
uses different phrases to refer to different types of post office boxes, it
cannot be assumed that “United States Postal Service post office box” also
includes a CMRA. Nor does the exclusion of CMRAs from the definition of United
States Postal Service post office boxes render subdivision (c) of Code of Civil
Procedure section 415.20 moot. Subdivision (c) is intended by its plain
language to be an exception to the reasonable diligence requirement of
subdivision (b): “Notwithstanding subdivision (b), if the only address
reasonably known for the person to be served is a private mailbox obtained
through a commercial mail receiving agency, service of process may be effected
on the first delivery attempt . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.20, subd. (b).)
Subdivision (c) also does not render subdivision (a) moot because the former
includes numerous requirements for service under Business & Professions
Code section 17538.5. Those requirements do not exist for service accomplished
pursuant to Code of Civl Procedures section 415.20, subdivision (a).
 
Therefore, Defendant Saiege must show either that the Vanowen
Street address is not his usual mailing address or that Plaintiff does not know
his physical address to overcome the presumption of proper service as stated in
the proof of service. Defendant Saiege declares that, at all relevant times, he
has resided in Simi Valley, California. (Motion, Saiege Decl., ¶2.) The Vanowen
Street Address is the mailing address for Defendant NJS, Defendant Saiege’s
construction company, as reflected by its Articles of Incorporation filed on
March 21, 2016 and Statement of Information filed on February 1, 2024. (Motion,
Saiege Decl., ¶¶4-7.) While the exhibits that purport to demonstrate this
address are not attached to Defendant Saiege’s declaration, he reiterates that
the post office box is rented on behalf of Defendant NJS to receive mail. (Id.
at ¶8.) Defendant Saiege also declares that he does not use that location as an
office for NJS or conduct any NJS business at the Vanowen Street address, other
than collecting mail for the company. (Id. at ¶¶10-15.) This evidence is
sufficient to demonstrate that the Vanowen Street address is solely for
Defendant NJS, and not Defendant Saiege’s usual mailing address. 
 
The burden now shifts to Plaintiff to demonstrate that the
Vanowen Street address is Defendant Saiege’s usual mailing address. Plaintiff
argues that Defendant Saiege declares he has visited the Vanowen Street post
office box once or twice a week since 2016. This, however, only shows that
Defendant Saiege regularly checks the post office box for Defendant NJS’ mail.
It does not demonstrate that Defendant Saiege uses the post office box for
himself as an individual. Even if Defendant Saiege rents the Vanowen Street
post office box in his name on behalf of Defendant NJS, as Plaintiff argues,
this does not mean he uses it as his personal mailing address. Therefore,
service at the Vanowen Street Address was not compliant with Code of Civil
Procedure section 415.20, subdivision (a).
 
Subdivision (c) of the substitute service statute also allows
for service on an individual at a CMRA, if it is the only address reasonably
known. Plaintiff raised this statute in opposition to the Motion and argues
that he did not reasonably know of any other address for Defendant Saiege
because a request to the Department of Motor Vehicles for additional
information requires the individual’s driver’s license number or date of birth,
and Plaintiff does not have that information. Defendant Saiege’s reply responds
that there are other ways to locate a person’s address but does not provide any
other information regarding his reasonably known address. Plaintiff’s
supplemental declaration further demonstrates that background checks he
performed in April and May 2022 did not turn up any other address for “Jack
Saiege” in California. (Supp. Decl., filed 05/15/24, pp. 1-2 and Exh. 1.) While
this evidence is sufficient to demonstrate that no address other than the one
located on Vanowen Street is reasonably known for Defendant Saiege, it does not
demonstrate that all the other requirements for service under subdivision (c)
have been met, as set forth in Business & Professions Code section 17583.5.
Therefore, the Court cannot find that service on Defendant Saiege complied with
Code of Civil Procedure section 415.20, subdivision (c).
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant Jack Saiege’s Motion to Vacate Entry of Default is
GRANTED. DEFENDANT JACK SAIEGE IS TO FILE AND SERVE A RESPONSIVE PLEADING TO
THE COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
Court clerk to give notice.
 
 
 
 