  Case Number:  23SMCV01431    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Glatman, et
al., v. Guido, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV01431
MOTION:                  Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel
HEARING DATE:   9/21/2023
 
Legal
Standard
 
The
court may order that an attorney be changed or substituted at any time before
or after judgment or final determination upon request by either client or
attorney and after notice from one to the other. (CCP §
284(2).) The attorney seeking to withdraw must take “reasonable steps to
avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the rights of the client, including
giving due notice to the client, allowing time for employment of other
counsel.” (Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct, 3-700(A)(2). See, e.g., Vann v.
Shilleh (1975) [holding withdrawal prejudicial where attorney
withdraw from the representation of defendant on the Friday before trial began
the following Monday].) “The determination whether to grant or deny a motion to
withdraw as counsel lies within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v. Superior Court
(1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.)  
 
An
application to be relieved as counsel must be made on Judicial Counsel Form
MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053
(Proposed Order). (CRC 3.1362(a), (c), (e).) The
requisite forms must be served “on the client and on all parties that have
appeared in the case.” (CRC, 3.1362(d).)
When a client is served by mail, the attorney’s declaration must indicate that
the client’s address was confirmed within the last 30 days and how it was
confirmed. (Id.) If the attorney is
unable to confirm the client’s current address, the declaration must state the
reasonable efforts made within the last 30 days to obtain the client’s current
address. (Id.) 
 
Additionally,
the declaration “must state in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney client relationship why” a motion is brought
instead of filing a substitution of attorney. (CRC, 3.1362(c).)
 
Analysis
 
Counsel Tatiana Ingman moves to be
relieved as counsel of record for Plaintiffs Bruce Glatman and
Encore International LLC. Counsel provides all mandatory forms for relief. Counsel
provides that Glatman, individually and as principal for Encore, has failed to
respond to any attempts at communication. Following co-counsel’s death, Counsel
has attempted to communicate with Glatman via telephone, email and text to no
avail. Thus, the Court concludes that an irreparable breakdown of the
attorney-client relationship has occurred. 
 
Counsel has
been unable to confirm Plaintiffs’ current address. Counsel made reasonable and
good faith attempts to contact her clients regarding this motion. Counsel mailed
the motion papers to the last known address, with return receipt requested,
called the client’s last known telephone number, and contacted Glatman’s
assistant, Vivian Ramos, who also did not respond. 
 
The
declaration notes the next hearing that on calendar.
 
As this action is still in its early stages, and no trial is set, the
Court finds that the clients will not be prejudiced by the withdrawal. Accordingly,
the motion is tentatively GRANTED. The order is effective upon the filing of
the proof of service of the order on the client. Until then, counsel remains
counsel of record