


[1] Plaintiff cites Martinez v. Kia Motors America, Inc. (2011) 193
Cal.App.4th 187 for the proposition she was not required to retain the Vehicle
throughout the pendency of the litigation to obtain replacement or restitution
pursuant to the Song-Beverly Act.  Maybe
so, but Martinez does not address the argument advanced by Defendant. Martinez
brought a Song-Beverly action against Kia. 
During the pendency of the litigation, Martinez’s vehicle was
repossessed for failure to make payments on the vehicle.  Kia filed, and the trial court granted, a
summary judgment motion based on Martinez’s lack of possession of the vehicle.  The Court of Appeal reversed, stating, “To
require the consumer to maintain the nonconforming vehicle throughout the
litigation is simply not part of the statute.” 
(Martinez, at p. 195.)  Here,
VGA does not argue Plaintiff could not return her vehicle when the lease expired,
but rather that (1) Plaintiff refused to comply with the inspection demands and
(2) surrendered the vehicle without notifying Defendant, frustrating, if not
eliminating, Defendant’s ability to inspect the vehicle.  The issue is one of frustration and evidence,
not of standing to seek relief under the Act. 
On the other hand, Plaintiff had every right and indeed an obligation to
return her vehicle at the end of the lease. 
The volume on the Defendant’s complaint that they did not know the car
was being surrendered comes in a bit too loud because Defendant was well aware
of the lease term.  Moreover, Plaintiff’s
conduct made clear she would not willingly produce the Vehicle for inspection
yet VGA did not move to compel production until well after the lease term had
ended.  Plaintiff may have engaged in
discovery abuse by not making the vehicle available, but VGA delayed
significantly in pursuing its remedy.  VGA
does not make an initial prima facie showing to shift the burden to Plaintiff.


[2] It is unclear if either party can locate
the Vehicle or if located whether either party may be able to establish the condition
of the Vehicle at the relevant time.   Plaintiff
points out that the Vehicle was returned to Antelope Valley Volkswagen and then
sold 5 months later.  Having been sold, the
Vehicle’s evidentiary value may be severely compromised.  

