  Case Number:  21STCV34914    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February
29, 2024                             TRIAL
DATE:  May 28, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Tamiuel Baxter v. Volkswagen Group of America, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV34914
 





















 
MOTION
FOR SANCTIONS



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Tamieul
Baxter 
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is a “lemon law” case. 
On September 22, 2021, Plaintiff, Tamieul Baxter, filed a Complaint
against Defendants, Volkswagen Group of America, Inc. (“VGA”) and Antelope
Valley Volkswagen, for various violations of the Song-Beverly Act.  Plaintiff leased a 2019 Volkswagen Tiguan
(the “Vehicle”) which included a bumper to bumper warranty.  During the warranty period, the Vehicle contained
or developed defects.  Plaintiff
presented the Vehicle for repair, but Defendants were unable to repair the
Vehicle after a reasonable number of opportunities.  Plaintiff leased the vehicle on March 20,
2019 for a lease term of 48 months.
 
On October 14, 2021, VGA sent a letter to Plaintiff’s
counsel which included an “Evidence Preservation Demand.”  Plaintiff did not respond to the demand.
 
On October 25, 2021, VGA served a Notice of Vehicle
Inspection, with an inspection date of January 25, 2022.  
 
On January 21, 2022, Plaintiff served an objection to the
October 25, 2021 notice stating Plaintiff would not be producing the Vehicle.  No alternative date was provided.
 
On February 18, 2023, Plaintiff returned the Vehicle.
 
On September 28, 2023, VGA served an Amended Notice of
Vehicle Inspection (“Amended Notice”), with an inspection date of November 2,
2023.  
 
On October 30, 2023, Plaintiff served an objection to the
Amended Notice.
 
On November 17, 2023, VGA filed a Motion to Compel
Production of Plaintiff’s Vehicle for Inspection.  
 
On December 28, 2023, during meet and confer efforts for
VGA’s motion to compel, Plaintiff’s counsel notified VGA for the first time
that Plaintiff had returned the Vehicle due to the maturity of the lease term.   
 
On January 30, 2024, VGA filed this Motion for Terminating Sanctions
based on Plaintiff’s alleged spoliation of evidence.  VGA also requests monetary sanctions against
Plaintiff and her counsel. 
Alternatively, VGA requests imposition of issue or evidence sanctions.
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition.  Defendants replied.      
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
 
            VGA
requests terminating sanctions based on Plaintiff’s spoliation of the Vehicle. 
 
“Spoliation of evidence means the
destruction or significant alteration of evidence or the failure to preserve
evidence for another’s use in pending or future litigation.”  (Williams
v. Russ (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1223.)  “Such conduct is
condemned because it ‘can destroy fairness and justice, for it increases the
risk of an erroneous decision on the merits of the underlying cause of action.  Destroying evidence can also increase the
costs of litigation as parties attempt to reconstruct the destroyed evidence or
to develop other evidence, which may be less accessible, less persuasive, or
both.’”  (Id.)  Where there is evidence of willful
suppression, the court may instruct the jury: “You may consider whether one
party intentionally concealed or destroyed evidence.  If you decide that a party did so, you may
decide that evidence would have been unfavorable to that party.”  (CACI No. 204; see also BAJI 2.03; see Cedars-Sinai
Med. Ctr. v. Superior Court (1998) 18 Cal.4th 1, 11-12.) 
 
“[A] party moving for discovery
sanctions based on the spoliation of evidence must make an initial prima facie
showing that the responding party in fact had destroyed evidence that had a substantial
probability of damaging the moving party’s ability to establish an essential
element of his claim or defense.”  (Williams, supra, 167
Cal.App.4th at p. 1227.)  Once the moving party meets that burden, the
burden shifts to the responding party to prove the moving party did not suffer
prejudice from the loss of the evidence.  (Id. at pp. 1226-27.) 
Discovery sanctions “should be appropriate to the dereliction, and should not
exceed that which is required to protect the interests of the party entitled to
but denied discovery.”  (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d
771, 793.) 
 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
VGA does not make an initial prima
facie showing that Plaintiff destroyed or failed to preserve the Vehicle.  First, there is no evidence Plaintiff
destroyed the Vehicle.  Instead,
Plaintiff returned the vehicle when the leased expired.  VGA claims it had no way of knowing that the
vehicle had been returned.  However, VGA
was well aware the lease was for 48 months – hence an expiration date of
3/20/23.  VGA makes much of Plaintiff’s conduct
prior to and after returning the Vehicle. 
Properly so.  Specifically, VGA details
Plaintiff’s efforts to resist production of the Vehicle for inspection, her “intentional”
return of the Vehicle towards the end of the lease term, and Plaintiff’s
counsel notifying VGA for the first time that Plaintiff no longer possessed the
Vehicle only after VGA filed a motion to compel production of the Vehicle for
inspection.  
 
However, VGA ignores several countervailing
facts.  Chief among those are: (1) VGA
served only one Notice of Vehicle Inspection—on October 25, 2021—prior to Plaintiff
returning the Vehicle on February 18, 2023; (2) after Plaintiff served an
objection to the Notice on January 21, 2022, VGA did not take any action to
inspect the Vehicle until September 28, 2023, which is when VGA served the
Amended Notice of Vehicle Inspection; and (3) VGA knew through discovery that
Plaintiff leased the Vehicle on March 19, 2019 for a lease term of 48 months
(Kumar Decl., Ex. B).  On this last
point, VGA contends Plaintiff returned the Vehicle earlier than was required
under the lease agreement.  But this is a
distinction of little moment given that VGA knew or should have known the maturity
date was approaching.  VGA also had
access to the Vehicle while it was on the lot in Antelope Valley.[1]  
 
True, the Vehicle is the key
evidence in this case.  But it is unclear
what evidence has been “spoiled”?[2] And
the Vehicle was in Volkswagen’s possession for five months before it was
sold.  True, Plaintiff should have made
the vehicle available and similarly should have notified counsel of the return
of the vehicle.  However, terminating
sanctions is a drastic remedy.  A
terminating sanction is a “drastic measure which should be employed with
caution.”¿ (Deyo, 84 Cal.App.3d at p. 793.)¿ Awarding VGA terminating
sanctions for spoliation of evidence is not an appropriate remedy where there
is no evidence of destruction – perhaps delay, but not destruction.  Moreover, VGA delayed in bringing the motion until
eight months after the end of the lease term.  VGA does not demonstrate having taken any
action to inspect the Vehicle between January 21, 2022 (when Plaintiff objected
to the Notice of Vehicle Inspection) and February 18, 2023 (when Plaintiff
returned the Vehicle).  VGA does not show
the court should arrive at a different outcome.
 
Alternatively, VGA requests
imposition of issue or evidence sanctions, or a sanction pursuant to Evidence
Code section 413 permitting the trier of fact to infer that an inspection of
the Vehicle would have elicited evidence supporting VGA’s case.   
 
When a party engages in misuse of
the discovery process, “[t]he court may impose an issue sanction ordering that
designated facts shall be taken as established in the action in accordance with
the claim of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery
process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by an order prohibiting
any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from supporting or
opposing designated claims or defenses. . . . The court may impose an evidence
sanction by an order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the
discovery process from introducing designated matters in evidence.” (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2023.030, subds. (b), (c).) Evidence or issue sanctions may be
imposed only after parties violated discovery orders, except in sufficiently
egregious exceptional circumstances when the offending party engages in a
pattern of willful discovery abuse. (New Albertsons, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1426.) The imposition of specific sanctions typically
depends on the severity of the party’s transgression. “The trial court cannot
impose sanctions for misuse of the discovery process as a punishment.” (Doppes
v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.) Rather, any given
sanction must be “tailor[ed] to the harm caused by the withheld discovery.” (Do
It Urself Moving & Storage, Inc. v. Brown, Leifer, Slatkin & Berns
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 27, 36, superseded by statute on other grounds.) This is
because “the purpose of discovery sanctions is not to provide a weapon for
punishment, forfeiture and the avoidance of a trial on the merits, but to
prevent abuse of the discovery process and correct the problem presented.” (Parker
v. Wolters Kluwer U.S., Inc. (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 285, 301.) 
 
            Here,
any issue or evidentiary sanction may be considered at the time of trial.  Plaintiff was entitled to return the Vehicle
at the end of the lease.  VGA should have
pressed the issue of inspection before the end of the lease.  Plaintiff should have made the Vehicle
available for inspection before surrender. 
The court will have to balance the equities at the time of trial when
evaluating Defendant’s motions in limine. 

 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The motion for terminating sanctions is DENIED.  The alternative motion for issue or evidence
sanctions, or inferences pursuant Evidence Code section 413, is DENIED.  Because the court is reserving ruling on
Defendant’s potential motions in limine, the court will hear from the parties
regarding sanctions. 
 
 
Dated:   February 29,
2024                                      




 


   




 


  Kerry
  Bensinger  
  Judge of
  the Superior Court 




 


