 Case Number:  22STCV24523    Hearing Date:   February 29, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February
29, 2024                 TRIAL DATE:  July
29, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Faram Arzbardi v. Porsche Cars North America, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV24523
 





















 
MOTION
TO DISQUALIFY COUNSEL



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Faram Arzbardi
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendant
Porsche Cars North America, Inc.
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION

 
On July 28, 2022, Plaintiff, Faram Arzbardi, filed this
“lemon law” action against Defendants, Porsche Cars North America, Inc. (“Porsche”)
and Beverly Hills Porsche.  On September
15, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint, alleging
causes of action for (1) Violation of Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act; (2) Breach
of Implied Warranty of Merchantability; (3) Negligent Repair; (4)
Misrepresentation; and (5)Violation of Magnuson-Moss Warrant Federal Trade
Commission Improvement Act.  
 
On January 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to
disqualify Abtin Amir as counsel for Defendants.[1]
Plaintiff also requests monetary sanctions against Mr. Amir.
 
Defendants filed an opposition.  Plaintiff replied. 
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Courts have the discretion to disqualify a law firm pursuant
to the inherent authority to control in furtherance of justice, the conduct of
its ministerial officers, and of all other persons in any matter connected with
a judicial proceeding before it, in every manner pertaining thereto.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 128, subd. (a)(5).) 
 
“Ultimately, disqualification motions involve a conflict
between the clients' right to counsel of their choice and the need to maintain
ethical standards of professional responsibility.” (People ex rel. Dept. of
Corporations v. SpeeDee Oil Change Systems, Inc.¿(1999) 20 Cal.4th 1135,
1145.) In considering a motion to disqualify counsel, the court’s “paramount
concern must be to preserve public trust in the scrupulous administration of
justice and the integrity of the bar.” (Ibid.)  
 
Not every instance of unprofessional conduct or bad judgment
by an attorney warrants disqualification; discipline of lawyers is a function
reserved to the State Bar. (City of San Diego v. Superior Court¿(2018)
30 Cal.App.5th 457, 470, as modified on denial of reh'g (Jan. 7, 2019).)
“[D]isqualification of counsel¿is a prophylactic remedy designed to mitigate
the unfair advantage a party might otherwise obtain if the lawyer were allowed
to continue representing the client.” (Id. at 470-71.) “Disqualification
is inappropriate, however, simply to punish a dereliction that will likely have
no substantial continuing effect on future judicial proceedings.” (California
Self-Insurers’ Security Fund v. Superior Court¿(2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 1065,
1079.) 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff seeks an order to disqualify Mr. Amir as counsel
for Defendants for: (1)  engaging in
abusive and intolerable conduct, including sending profanity-laced emails; (2) using
defamatory and discriminatory epithets; (3) calling Plaintiff’s counsel, Natan
Davoodi, and his clients con-artists, tricksters, and liars; (4) reneging on a
prior settlement agreements; and (5) making threats to file complaints to the
California State Bar against Mr. Davoodi to gain an unfair advantage.  In support, Plaintiff submits Mr. Davoodi’s
declaration with an email from mediator Phyllis Pollack in a different matter;
email exchanges between Mr. Davoodi and Mr. Amir; and screen shots of text
message exchanges between Mr. Amir and a third party.  (Davoodi Decl., Exs. A, B, C.)  
 
Counsel do not get along, that much is clear.  However, the evidence does not rise to the
level warranting disqualification.  A
review of the exhibits attached to Mr. Davoodi’s declaration proves the
point.  
 
First, Plaintiff submits email communications with mediator
Phyllis Pollack from another matter which allegedly confirms Mr. Amir
“twisted the agreed-to terms of settlement and denied the terms that were
supported by written communications from the mediator.”  (Davoodi Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. A.)  However, Plaintiff provides no authority for
the proposition that counsel’s conduct in an entirely separate action has any
bearing on whether disqualification is warranted here. 
 
Second, Plaintiff offers screenshots of a text message
exchange between Mr. Amir and a third party to show Mr. Amir has made accusations
against Mr. Davoodi which warrant disqualification.  In the text messages, Mr. Amir, at times
using profanity, questions Mr. Davoodi’s ability to evaluate a case, among
other things.  (Davoodi Decl., Ex. B.)  Defendant counters that Plaintiff takes the
text message exchange out of context. 
Defendants submit their own text message exchanges, purportedly with the
same unnamed third party, which show Mr. Amir sought help to mediate the
friction between Mr. Amir and Mr. Davoodi and resolve their conflict.  (See Amir Decl., ¶ 12, Ex. D.)  The court questions the use of these private conversation
without sufficient context to support a motion to disqualify opposing
counsel.  
 
Insisting Mr. Amir should be disqualified, Plaintiff points
to Mr. Amir’s rejection of a settlement offer of $3,500 as evidence of Mr.
Amir’s intent to push this case to trial based on personal animosity.  However, the email appears connected to global
settlement involving another case as well. (See Amir Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. J.)  
 
Last, Plaintiff offers email exchanges between Mr. Davoodi
and Mr. Amir.  (Davoodi Decl., Ex.
C.)  The email exchanges show Mr. Amir
calling Mr. Davoodi and his clients “con artists” and threatening to report Mr.
Davoodi to the State Bar.  Mr. Davoodi engages
and  responds with his own accusations.  This email exchange, while not flattering to
either counsel, or to this profession, does not demonstrate disqualification is
appropriate here.  
 
Both counsel are admonished to comport themselves with the
professionalism and integrity as set forth in the California Rules of
Professional Conduct. 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            The motion
is DENIED.  Having denied the motion,
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is also DENIED.
 
Clerk of the Court to give notice.  
 
 
Dated:   February 29,
2024                             




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the Superior Court


 




 
 
            
 
 


