 Case Number:  24NNCV01641    Hearing Date:   January 14, 2025    Dept:  X #9
– Henglan Zhao v. Royal Vista Care Center, et al.CASE
MANAGEMENT CONFERENCEThe Court has reviewed the Case Management Statements filed by the
parties.  The Court issues the following
Case Management Order:The Court sets the following dates:Final
Status Conference: Thursday,
January 8, 2026, at 10:00 a.m. in Dept. X.Jury
Trial: Tuesday, January 13, 2026,
at 9:00 a.m. in Dept. X.The Court estimates trial as lasting six court days based upon the
information in the Case Management Statements.Plaintiffs have posted jury fees.The Court further orders the parties to comply with the Court’s Trial
Preparation Order, which may be found on the LASC website (www.LACourt.org),
“Online Services” section, under the “Courtroom Information” link for
Department X (Alhambra Courthouse).  Trial counsel are ordered to personally
appear – in court – for the Final Status Conference with a copy of their lodged binders so that same can be reviewed in
preparation for trial.DEFENDANTS’
DEMURRER AND MOTION TO STRIKEDefendants demur and move to strike
the Complaint’s First Cause of Action for Elder Abuse and Neglect and the
Fourth Cause of Action for Violation of the Patient’s Bill of Rights.  They also move to strike portions of the
Complaint which reference the prayers for relief regarding the same causes of
action.BackgroundThe
lawsuit arises from Plaintiff Henglan Zhao’s development of bedsores at a
skilled nursing facility operated by Defendant Royal Vista Care Center, LLC.  According to the facial allegations of the
Complaint, one of these bedsores has since resolved, and the other was treated
with surgery in April 2024, but was still present to some degree at the time
the Complaint was filed on May 14, 2024.  The Complaint alleges that Royal Vista failed
to timely change plaintiff’s diapers, to adequately assist her in
repositioning, and to provide her adequate hydration, and that such failures
amounted to “Elder Abuse and Neglect” under Welfare & Institutions Code §§
15610, et seq., as well as a violation of the Patient’s Bill of Rights under
Health & Safety Code § 1430.Tentative RulingThe Demurrer is overruled as to each cause of action.  The Motion to Strike is denied.  Defendants shall file an Answer to the
Complaint within 20 days of this Order.Legal Authority and
Analysis“The function of
a demurrer is to test the sufficiency of the complaint as a matter of law.”  (Holiday Matinee, Inc. v. Rambus, Inc. (2004)
118 Cal.App.4th 1413, 1420.)  A complaint
“is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than evidentiary facts.”  (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42
Cal.4th 531, 550 (“Doe”)), but the plaintiff must set forth the essential facts
of his or her case “with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficient
to acquaint [the] defendant with the nature, source and extent” of the
plaintiff’s claim.  (Doheny Park
Terrace Homeowners Assn., Inc. v. Truck Ins. Exchange (2005) 132
Cal.App.4th 1076, 1099.)Legal conclusions
are insufficient.  (Id., at pp.
1098–99.)  The Court “assume[s] the truth
of the allegations in the complaint, but do[es] not assume the truth of
contentions, deductions, or conclusions of law.”  (California Logistics, Inc. v. State of
California (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 242, 247.)  A demurrer lies only for defects appearing on
the face of the complaint or from matters of which the court must or may take
judicial notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.40; see Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)Legal Authority and AnalysisThe Demurrer to the First Cause of Action (Elder Abuse)
is OVERRULEDUnder the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection
Act (EADACPA) (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15600, et seq.), heightened remedies
are available in limited circumstances.  A
plaintiff must prove, by clear and convincing evidence, that a defendant is
liable for either physical abuse under section 15610.63 or neglect under section
15610.57, and that the defendant committed the abuse with “recklessness,
oppression, fraud, or malice.”  (Welf.
& Inst. Code, § 15657.)  Section
15610.57, in turn, provides two definitions of neglect.  First, “[t]he negligent failure of any person
having the care or custody of an elder or a dependent adult to exercise that
degree of care that a reasonable person in a like position would exercise.”  (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.57, subd.
(a)(1).)  Second, “[t]he negligent
failure of an elder or dependent adult to exercise that degree of self care
that a reasonable person in a like position would exercise.”  (Id., subd. (a)(2).)Complementing these two definitions is the statute’s
explicitly non-exhaustive list of “neglect” examples.  These include failures “to assist in personal
hygiene” or to provide “food, clothing, or shelter” (Welf. & Inst. Code, §
15610.57, subd. (b)(1)); “to provide medical care for physical and mental
health needs” (id., subd. (b)(2)); “to protect from health and safety
hazards” (id., subd. (b)(3)); and “to prevent malnutrition or
dehydration” (id., subd. (b)(4)).Here, Plaintiff alleges neglect arising in the context of
medical care and not self-care.  Plaintiff
alleges that Defendants failed to provide adequate care, resulting in severe
dehydration, pressure ulcers, and other injuries.  The Complaint details systemic understaffing,
failure to implement care plans, and neglect of Plaintiff’s hygiene, hydration,
and repositioning to prevent pressure wounds.  Plaintiff further alleges that Defendants were
aware of Plaintiff’s high risk for dehydration and pressure ulcers but
consciously disregarded these risks to maximize profits.Defendants demur, arguing that the Complaint does not allege
conduct rising to the level of recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice, as
required to sustain a claim for enhanced remedies under section 15657.  Instead, Defendants argue, the allegations
would qualify, at most, as medical negligence, because that “the statutory
definition of ‘neglect’ speaks not of the undertaking of medical
services, but of the failure to provide medical care.”  (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court
(2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 783 [emphasis in original].)The Court determines that Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged
facts to support a claim for elder abuse.  The Complaint includes specific allegations of
reckless neglect, such as Defendants’ failure to monitor Plaintiff’s hydration.
 Further, the Complaint supplied further
allegations that may show recklessness.  The
Complaint alleges Defendant had a systemic pattern of improperly understaffing
to cut costs and increase profits.  According
to the Complaint, Plaintiff’s injuries were a result of the understaffing
(Compl., ¶ 55), and had Defendants Royal Vista, Arlante, and Dorschner the
ability to provide the requisite care to Plaintiff, Plaintiff would not have
suffered these injuries (Compl, ¶¶ 67-68).  The Court must accept these allegations as
true and express no opinion on whether Plaintiff can ultimately prove them.  Defendants’ reliance on cases such as Covenant Care
and Worsham is unpersuasive at this stage. While those cases emphasize
the distinction between professional negligence and elder abuse, Plaintiff’s
allegations of systemic understaffing and intentional cost-cutting measures go
beyond negligence and suggest a pattern of reckless conduct.The Demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action (Patient’s
Bill of Rights) is OVERRULEDPlaintiff alleges Defendants’ conduct described above
violated Plaintiff’s rights under the Patient’s Bill of Rights.  Plaintiffs cite multiple provisions of section
72527 of title 22 of the California Code of Regulations which Defendants
violated based on that conduct.  (Compl.,
¶ 101 citing 22 C.C.R. § 72527(a)(1), (10), (12), and (25).)Title 22 California Code of Regulations section 72527(a)
provides that “Patients have the rights enumerated in this section and the
facility shall ensure that these rights are not violated.”  The rights include the patient’s right to: “be
fully informed, as evidenced by the patient’s written acknowledgement prior to
or at the time of admission and during stay, of these rights and of all rules
and regulations governing patient conduct” (22 C.C.R. § 72527(a)(1)); “be free
from mental and physical abuse” (22 C.C.R. § 72527(a)(10)); and “be treated
with consideration, respect and full recognition of dignity and individuality,
including privacy in treatment and in care of personal needs” (22 C.C.R. §
72527(a)(12)).  Lastly, patients shall
have other rights as specified by Health and Safety Code, Section 1599.1.  (22 C.C.R. § 72527(a)(25).)Defendants contend the Complaint merely recites regulatory
language without identifying specific conduct or causal links to Plaintiff’s
injuries.  Paragraph 98 of the Complaint
incorporates into the Patient’s Bill of Rights cause of action all prior
allegations of fact, such as the failure to provide adequate hygiene,
hydration, and pressure ulcer prevention.  The cause of action further alleges Defendant
Royal Vista failed to (1) prevent mental and physical abuse, (2) provide an
adequate number of qualified personnel to carry out all the functions of the
facility, and (3) failed to provide Plaintiff with adequate medical care.  (Compl., ¶ 103.)  As a proximate result of these failures,
Plaintiff suffered her injuries—she was immobile yet left unattended lying in
bed for prolonged periods resulting in her sores (Compl., ¶ 61, 63), and
Defendants’ failure to provide basic needs left her to suffer from dehydration,
diaper rashes, a UTI, and a pressure sore on her foot, which required further
surgery in April 2024 (Compl., ¶¶ 23-24).The Complaint sets forth facts sufficiently detailed and
specific to support an inference that each of the statutory elements of
liability is satisfied.  These
allegations are sufficient to state a claim under the Patient’s Bill of Rights.Defendants’ Motion to Strike is DENIEDThe Court may, in
its discretion and upon a motion to strike by defendant: (a) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading, or (b) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 435-436.)  The matter must appear on the face of the
complaint or be subject to judicial notice. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)Defendants move to
strike the prayers for relief under the first and fourth causes of action on
similar grounds as Defendants’ arguments in the demurrer.  Given the above discussion regarding the
demurrer, the motion to strike is DENIED.Unless waived by the parties, Moving Party is
to give notice.