 Case Number:  23STCV02279    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
 



CHARNICE EDWARDS, an individual

   ; SA’RYE ZION
  CRAVER, a minor, by and through his Guardian ad Litem CHARNICE EDWARDS;
  AH’LAYSIA MAHOGANIE WILLIAMS, a minor, by and through her Guardian ad Litem
  CHARNICE EDWARDS; and MYSTERI CHARM JONES, a minor, by and through her
  Guardian ad Litem CHARNICE EDWARDS,
 
Plaintiffs,
 
 
vs.
 
 
L.A. GARDENS COMMUNITY
   ASSOCIATION, a
  California nonprofit public benefit corporation; CALIFORNIA COMMERCIAL
  INVESTMENT GROUP, INC., a California corporation, and DOES 1 to 20,
  inclusive,
 


   Defendants.
 


Case No. 23STCV02279




 




Department 45




 




 




[Tentative] Order




 




 




Action Filed: 02/02/23




Trial Date: 08/11/25
 



 
Hearing Date:             October 3, 2024
Moving Parties:           Michael Juarez-Munoz, Counsel for
Plaintiffs Charnice Edwards, Sa’Rye Zion Craver, Ah’Laysia Mahoganie Williams,
& Mysteri Charm Jones
Responding Party:       None
 
Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Charnice Edwards, Sa’Rye Zion
Craver, Ah’Laysia Mahoganie Williams, & Mysteri Charm Jones
 
The court has
considered the moving papers.  No
opposition was received.
The court GRANTS counsel Michael Juarez Munoz’s
(Counsel) motion to be relieved as counsel on condition that counsel serve a
copy of the signed order on the clients and on all parties that have appeared
in this case and that Counsel file such proof of service with the Court within
10 days from the date of this Order pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e). Counsel shall be relieved as counsel of record effective upon: (1)
the filing of the proof of service of the signed order on plaintiffs Charnice
Edwards, Sa’Rye Zion Craver, Ah’Laysia Mahoganie Williams, & Mysteri Charm
Jones (collectively, Plaintiffs); and (2) the filing of the proofs of service
of the signed order on defendants L.A. Gardens Community Association and
California Commercial Investment Group, Inc. (collectively, Defendants).
 
Discussion
 
Counsel moves to
be relieved as counsel of record for Plaintiffs.
The court has
discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw, and such a motion should be
granted provided that there is no prejudice to the client and it does not
disrupt the orderly process of justice. (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.
App. 4th 904, 915; People v. Prince
(1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.) California
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(b)(10) provides that a permissive
request for withdrawal may be properly granted where an attorney believes that
the tribunal will find good cause for withdrawal.
California Rules
of Court, rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel) requires (1) notice of
motion and motion to be directed to the client (made on the Notice of Motion
and Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-051)); (2) service of the
notice of motion and motion and declaration on all other parties who have
appeared in the case; (3) a declaration stating in general terms and without
compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the
Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-052)); and (4) the proposed order relieving counsel (prepared on the
Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form
(MC-053)).
Here, Counsel
complied with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362. First, Counsel served Plaintiffs
and Defendants by mail and electronic mail with copies of the motion papers
filed with his declaration, and copies of the proofs of service was filed with
the court at least five days prior to the hearing, fulfilling the first two
requirements of California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362. (Counsel Decl., Proof
of Service.) Next, in the attorney declaration (Form MC-052), Counsel indicates
that there has been an irreparable breakdown of the attorney-client
relationship due to an inability to resolve issues. (Counsel Decl., ¶ 2.) This
is a proper basis for withdrawal under California
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(b)(10), fulfilling the third
requirement. Finally, Counsel filed a proposed order relieving counsel,
fulfilling the fourth requirement.
The court finds
that Counsel’s withdrawal will not prejudice Plaintiff’s because trial is
almost a year away, on August 11, 2025.
The court GRANTS Counsel’s motion to be relieved
as counsel on condition that “a copy of the signed order must be served on the
client and on all parties that have appeared in the case” and that Counsel file
such proof of service with the Court within 10 days from the date of this Order
pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e). The Court will sign the
proposed Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to be Relieved as Counsel-Civil with
the following modifications: (1) the trial date in paragraph 8 will be changed to
August 11, 2025; and (2) the trial date in paragraph 9(b) will be changed to August
11, 2025. Counsel shall be relieved as counsel of record effective upon: (1)
the filing of the proof of service of the signed order on Plaintiffs; and (2)
the filing of the proofs of service of the signed order on Defendants.
It is so ordered.
Date:   October 3, 2024
 
______________________
Mel Red Recana
Judge of the Superior
Court