  Case Number:  21STCV01578    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of California
County
 of Los Angeles
 



 
LARISA STEPANTSOVA, et al.,
 
                             Plaintiffs,
 
                              vs.
 
DOCS SURGICAL HOSPITAL, et al.,
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case No.:  21STCV01578
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  01/14/21
Trial
  Date:  01/21/25
 
 



 
Hearing Date:             October
03, 2024
Moving Party:             Defendant
Rajan M. Patel, M.D.
Responding Party:       None
 
 
 
Motion for Summary Judgment
 
The court has considered the
moving papers. No opposition has been filed.
The court GRANTS Defendant Rajan M. Patel, M.D’s (Defendant) motion for
summary judgment with respect to the First Amended Complaint.
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs
Larisa Stepantsova and Lana Kruglyakova (Plaintiffs) are the wife and adult
daughter, respectively, of decedent Vyacheslav Stepantsov (Decedent). Plaintiffs
allege that Decedent died as a result of a right shoulder arthoplasty surgery
in which Defendant was the orthopedic surgeon. (Complaint, ¶ 11.)
In December
2019, Decedent consulted with Defendant, complaining of right shoulder pain and
weakness. (UMF, ¶ 6.) Decedent had previously consulted with Defendant in 2015.
(UMF, ¶ 1.) In a patient intake form, Decedent reported significant medical
history for headaches, glaucoma, high blood pressure, stroke, osteoarthritis,
gout, prostate issues, depression, and seizures, and reported taking numerous
medications. (UMF, ¶ 8.) Defendant performed a physical examination on
Decedent, finding moderate to severe painful arch and moderate crepitus among
other issues. (UMF, ¶ 11.) Defendant concluded that Decedent’s best treatment
option was consideration for reverse shoulder replacement, and discussed the
risks, limitations, expectations, and possible complications in detail with
Decedent. (UMF, ¶ 13.) Decedent subsequently signed a consent form for the
reverse right shoulder surgery. (UMF, ¶ 14.)
Defendant
ordered blood tests, urinalysis, chest X-ray, and history and physical
examinations to be performed prior to the surgery. (UMF, ¶ 16.) Defendant Gary
Reznick, M.D., stated that Decedent had no medical or cardiac contraindications
to undergo the surgery, and defendant David Vizel, M.D., stated that Decedent
had no acute contraindications to undergo the surgery. (UMF, ¶¶ 17-18.) Labs
were repeated on January 7, 2020, finding that glucose, BUN, creatinine, and
PTT were higher than normal, while hemoglobin and hematocrit were slightly
below normal. (UMF, ¶ 19.)
The surgery was
performed on January 16, 2020. (UMF, ¶ 21.) Decedent was given general
anesthesia and placed in the beach chair position. (UMF, ¶ 23.) Estimated blood
loss during the surgery was 50 milliliters, and Defendant did not note any
complications. (UMF, ¶ 32.) Defendant gave postoperative medical orders. ((UMF,
¶¶ 33-35.)
Decedent was
transferred to the post-anesthesia care unit (PACU), at which point his blood
pressure was measured 83/44, and it remained hypotensive while Decedent was in
the PACU. (UMF, ¶ 36.) Defendant did not monitor Decedent in the PACU; instead,
defendant Ernest Schmidt, M.D. as well as the PACU nurse, Felicia Armstead
Watt, RN, monitored Decedent and provided Defendant with updates regarding
Decedent. (UMF, ¶ 38.) Watt did not contact Defendant to evaluate Decedent or
issue orders.
Approximately
five hours after being transferred to the PACU, Decedent was transferred to
Cedars Sinai Medical Center. (UMF, ¶ 40.) Decedent died there on January 25,
2020. (UMF, ¶ 40.)
The operative complaint
contains a cause of action against Defendant for wrongful death arising from
medical negligence.
On July 24, 2024,
Defendant filed this motion for summary judgment. No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal
Standard
 
The function of a motion for summary
judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing
party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an
order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) In
analyzing motions for summary judgment, courts must apply a three-step
analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine
whether the moving party has negated the opponent's claims; and (3) determine
whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material
factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade
Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) Summary
judgment is proper “if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
            As
to each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary
judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate
an essential element, or to establish a defense. (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) A motion for summary judgment must be denied where the
moving party's evidence does not prove all material facts, even in the absence
of any opposition or where the opposition is weak (Leyva v. Sup. Ct. (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 462, 475; Salesguevara v. Wyeth Labs., Inc. (1990)
222 Cal.App.3d 379, 384, 387).
            Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts
to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to
that cause of action or defense. To establish a triable issue of material fact,
the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Discussion
 
Defendant moves for summary judgment on
the grounds that (1) Defendant complied with the applicable standard of care at
all times; and (2) nothing Defendant did or did not do, caused the death of Decedent
or plaintiffs’ injuries and claimed damages.
 
Professional Negligence
 
The elements of a negligence
claim are duty, breach of duty, causation, and damages.  (Salinas v. Martin (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 404, 411.) Defendant argues that Plaintiffs cannot establish that
he breached his duty of care and that they cannot establish that his acts or
omissions were the cause of Decedent’s death or Plaintiffs’ injuries and
claimed damages.
 
 
Breach of Duty of Care
 
A physician’s standard of care
requires that they “exercise the degree of skill, knowledge and care ordinarily
possessed and exercised by members of the medical profession under similar
circumstances.” (Selden v. Dinner (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 166, 173.) A
medical standard of care can be established only by expert medical testimony. (Ibid.)
The court finds
that there is no triable issue of material fact as to whether Defendant has
breached his duty of care owed to Decedent, and Defendant is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.
Here, Defendant
presents the declaration of Eric S. Milstein, M.D., as expert medical testimony
to establish that Defendant’s actions did not fall below the standard of care.
Dr. Milstein opines that, to a reasonable degree of medical certainty, Defendant
at all times complied with the standard of care in his care and treatment of
Decedent, including in his preoperative test orders, his surgical technique,
and his postoperative deference to anesthesiology and nursing to monitor and
treat Decedent in the PACU. (Milstein Decl., ¶ 10.)
Based on the above, the court
finds that Defendant has carried his initial burden. Thus, the burden now
shifts to Plaintiffs to show that triable issues of material fact exist as to
the issue of Defendant’s breach of his duty of care.
Plaintiffs have failed to
carry their shifted burden. Plaintiffs have not filed an opposition to
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment. Plaintiffs also have not presented any
expert medical testimony to establish that Defendant did not comply with the
operative standard of care in his care and treatment of Decedent.
The evidence
presented to the court indicates that there is no triable issue of material
fact as to the issue of Defendant’s breach of his duty of care. Defendant has
presented expert medical testimony opining that Defendant did not breach his
duty of care, and Plaintiffs have failed to present expert medical testimony
opining that Defendant did breach his duty of care.
 
Causation
 
In a personal injury action
for medical malpractice, “causation must be proven within a reasonable medical
probability based upon competent expert testimony. Mere possibility alone is
insufficient to establish a prima facie case.” (Jones v. Ortho
Pharmaceutical Corp. (1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 396, 402.) A possible cause
becomes probable when it is more likely than not that the injury was a result
of the cause. (Id., at p. 402.)
The court finds
that there is no triable issue of material fact as to whether there is a
reasonable medical probability that Defendant’s acts or omissions were the
cause of Decedent’s death or Plaintiffs’ claimed injuries or damages, and
Defendant is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.
Here, Defendant
presents the declaration of Dr. Milstein as expert medical testimony to
establish that Defendant’s acts or omissions were not the cause of Decedent’s
death or Plaintiff’s claimed injuries or damages. Dr. Milstein opines that, to
a reasonable degree of medical probability, nothing Defendant did or failed to
do caused or contributed to Decedent’s death or Plaintiffs’ claimed injuries or
damages; in particular, Dr. Milstein notes that although there is an increased
risk of hypoperfusion when performing surgery on a patient in the modified
beach chair position, Decedent’s blood pressures were being maintained during
the surgery, so hypoperfusion was not a problem during the surgery. (Milstein
Decl. ¶ 11.)
Based on the above, the court
finds that Defendant has carried his initial burden. Thus, the burden now
shifts to Plaintiffs to show that triable issues of material fact exist as to
the issue of Defendant’s causation of Decedent’s death or
Plaintiffs’ claimed injuries or damages.
Plaintiffs have failed to
carry their shifted burden. Plaintiffs have not filed an opposition to
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment. Plaintiffs also have not presented any
expert medical testimony to establish that Defendant’s acts or omissions caused
Decedent’s death or Plaintiffs’ claimed injuries or damages.
The evidence
presented to the court indicates that there is no triable issue of material
fact as to the issue of Defendant’s causation of Decedent’s death or
Plaintiffs’ claimed injuries or damages. Defendant has presented expert medical
testimony opining that Defendant did not cause Decedent’s death or Plaintiffs’
claimed injuries or damages, and Plaintiffs have failed to present expert
medical testimony to the contrary.
 
            Based on the foregoing, the court GRANTS
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment.
 
It is so
ordered.
 
Date:
October 03, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court