 Case Number:  23CHCV03446    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  12/12/24




Case
  Name: Cyrus Jazaeri v. Michael R. Rhames, and Does 1 to 25




Case No.
  23CHCV03446



 
LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT
F49
 

DECEMBER 12,
2024
 

MOTION FOR PRODUCTION OF SETTLEMENT
DOCUMENTS

Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 23CHCV03446

 
Motion
filed: 10/28/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Cyrus Jazaeri 
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Michael R. Rhames
NOTICE: A notice of motion is not stated, in
violation of California Rules of Court rules 3.1110 and 3.1112, and a Proof of
Service is not included.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: Plaintiff
moves for an order compelling Defendant Michael R. Rhames to produce
settlement documents and issued checks related to the underlying case. In opposition,
Defendant seeks monetary sanctions against Plaintiff in the amount of $500.00.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is DENIED. Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This action arises from alleged legal malpractice.
 
On November 9, 2023,
Plaintiff Cyrus Jazaeri (“Plaintiff” or “Jazaeri”) initiated this action.
Subsequently, on May 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”), rendering moot a demurrer previously filed by Defendant on January 8,
2024.
 
On September 11, 2024, the Court sustained Defendant’s
demurrer and granted Defendant’s motion to strike, granting Plaintiff 30 days
leave to amend the second, third, and fourth causes of action and the related
prayer for relief.
 
On October 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative Second
Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendant and Does 1 to 25, alleging the
following causes of action: (1) Professional Negligence, (2) Breach
of Contract, (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, and (4) Fraud and Deceit. 
 
On October 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for
Production of Settlement Documents (the “Motion”). Subsequently, Defendant
filed an Opposition to the Motion on November 27, 2024. 
 
            No Reply
papers have been received by the Court.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“If a party to whom a demand
for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely
response to it, the following rules shall apply: (a) The party to whom the
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed waives any
objection to the demand, including one based on privilege or on the protection
for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010). The court,
on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its determination that
both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The party has subsequently
served a response that is in substantial compliance with Sections 2031.210,
2031.220, 2031.230, 2031.240, and 2031.280. (2) The party’s failure to serve a
timely response was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300, subd. (a).)
 
“The party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.300, subd. (b).)
 
A.   
Procedural
Defects
 
Pursuant to California Rules
of Court rule 3.1112, the papers filed in support of a motion must consist of
at least the following: (1) A notice of hearing on the motion; (2) the motion
itself; and (3) a memorandum in support of the motion[.] 
 
“A notice of motion must
state in the opening paragraph the nature of the order being sought and the
grounds for issuance of the order.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1110(a).)
“Notices must be in writing, and the notice of a motion, other than a new
trial, must state when, and the grounds upon which it will be made, and the
papers, if any, upon which it is to be based. . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1010.)
 
Additionally, “[a] party
filing a motion, except for a motion listed in rule 3.1114, must serve and file
a supporting memorandum. The court may construe the absence of a memorandum as
an admission that the motion or special demurrer is not meritorious and cause
for its denial . . . .” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(a).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s motion
paper consists solely of the following statement:
 
“Plaintiff comes forth
pleading Court Order for Defendant’s production of every settlement document
between the parties, every check issued for Legal Services, Personal Injury
Damages, Reimbursement Damages as verbal requests have been denied by Atty
Rhames. The settlement documents produced will prove the fraud committed by
Rhames.”
 
(Mot. at p. 1.)
 
However, the Motion fails to
include a proper notice of motion, a memorandum of points and authorities, or
any statement of the grounds upon which it is made. Additionally, Plaintiff has
not included a proof of service. 
 
Therefore, the Motion fails
to comply with the format and content requirements under California Rules of
Court, rules 3.1110, 3.1112, 3.1113 and Code of Civil Procedure section 1010. 
 
These procedural defects
render the Motion fatally deficient, as the Court lacks sufficient information
to evaluate the Motion without the required supporting papers.
 
Accordingly, the Motion is
DENIED on procedural grounds. 
 
B.    
Motion for
Production of Settlement Documents
 
Even if the
Court were to overlook the numerous procedural deficiencies on the face of the
Motion and assume that Plaintiff’s Motion is brought under the authority of
relevant Code of Civil Procedure sections, the Court nevertheless finds that
the Motion must be denied.
 
A motion to
compel responses to discovery requests for production of documents is governed by
Code of Civil Procedure sections 2031.010 et seq. Critically, such a motion is
premised on the condition that “a party to whom a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response to
it.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (a).) (Underlines added.)
 
Here,
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff has not propounded any discovery on Defendant
(Niedbalski Decl. ¶ 3), arguing that the Motion is substantively defective.
Plaintiff does not provide any evidence to the contrary. 
 
Based on the
above records, the Court finds that the authority under Code of Civil Procedure
sections 2031.010 et seq. is inapplicable to the present case. Plaintiff has
failed to cite any valid authorities to support the Motion. Consequently, the
Court cannot find a sufficient legal basis to grant the Motion.
 
Accordingly,
the Court DENIES the Motion on this separate basis.
 
C.   
Request for
Monetary Sanctions
 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 2023.030 provides, in pertinent part, “the court, after
notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity for
hearing, may impose the following sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct
that is a misuse of the discovery process: (a) The court may impose a monetary
sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or
any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses,
including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The
court may also impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that
another has engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney
who advised that assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by
any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”
 
“Misuses of the discovery process
include, but are not limited to, the following: ... (h) Making or opposing,
unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a motion to compel or to
limit discovery. . . .” (Code Civ. Procs., § 2023.010.)
 
            In the
Opposition, Defendant seeks monetary sanctions against Plaintiff in the amount
of at least $500.00 for the costs of preparing the Opposition, arguing that the
Motion is frivolous and procedurally and substantively defective. (Opp’n. at p.
5.)
 
            The
Court finds the monetary sanctions are justified in the circumstances, pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030. Utilizing the lodestar approach,
the Court determines the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and
costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the Motion to be
$500.00, calculated based on a reasonable hourly rate of $250.00 for two hours
reasonably spent. (Niedbalski Decl. ¶¶ 6-7.)
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANT
Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiff Cyrus Jazaeri’s Motion
for Production of Settlement Documents is DENIED.
 
Defendant Michael R. Rhames’s
request for monetary sanctions is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff Cyrus Jazaeri is ordered
to pay $500.00 to Defendant Michael R. Rhames’s counsel within 20 days.
 
Moving party to give notice.