 Case Number:  23VECV03369    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  W CARLOS AGUILAR v. P.F. CHANG'S III, LLC
 
defendant’s demurrer with motion to strike the second
amended complaint 
 
Date
of Hearing:        June 21, 2024                                     Trial Date:       None Set  
Department:              W                                                        Case
No.:        23VECV03369
 
Moving Party:            Defendant P.F. Chang’s China Bistro,
Inc. (erroneously sued and served as P.F. Chant’s III, LLC)
Responding Party:     Plaintiff Carlos Aguilar   
Meet and Confer:      Attempted. (Tsao Decl. ¶¶6-7.)   
 
BACKGROUND
 
This
is a product liability action. Plaintiff alleges on August 4, 2021, Plaintiff
purchased and consumed fried rice from a P.F. Chang’s restaurant located in
Sherman Oaks and while consuming the fried rice, he bit into a metal object
resulting in injuries. On August 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants
P.F. Chang’s China Bistro, Inc. (erroneously sued and served as P.F. Chant’s
III, LLC) (“P.F. Chang’s”) and Christine Doe for strict liability, negligence,
breach of the implied warranty of merchantability, breach of the implied
warranty of fitness for intended purpose, negligent misrepresentation, and breach
of express warranty. Defendant Christine Doe is allegedly the supervisor and/or
manager of the Restaurant at the time of the incident. Plaintiff filed a second
amended complaint on April 15, 2024.  
 
Defendant
P.F. Chang’s now demurs to the amended complaint as well as moves to strike
portions of the complaint. 
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
Defendant
P.F. Chang’s China Bistro, Inc.’s Demurrer is OVERRULED; Defendant P.F. Chang’s
China Bistro, Inc.’s Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant demurs to
the fifth cause of action for negligent misrepresentation on the grounds the
claim fails to allege sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action against
Defendant pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10(e). 
 
The court
previously sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action in the
first amended complaint on the grounds: “The complaint still does not
adequately allege who made the statement, when, to whom, whether the speaker
lacked reasonable grounds for believe it to be true, and reliance. Plaintiff
has one more chance to amend the complaint to allege these required elements.”
(March 15, 2024 Minute Order.) The amended complaint now alleges Christine Doe
misrepresented to Plaintiff that the fried rice was safe for its intended use
and free of metal objects; the misrepresentation was made at the time the fried
rice was ordered by Plaintiff; and Christine Doe made the misrepresentation
without reasonable ground for believing it to be true. (SAC ¶33.) Specifically,
Plaintiff asked if the fried rice was good, to which Defendant Christine Doe
negligently replied “Yes, of course”, without verifying whether the fried rice
was actually good for human consumption. This is sufficient for the purposes of
a demurrer. Whether such an alleged communications were an opinion on the taste
of the food rather than a statement on the safety of food is a question for the
trier of fact. 
 
Accordingly, the
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is OVERRULED. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
Defendant also
moves to strike Paragraph 5 of the Prayer; “For attorney fees incurred;” and
each and every mention of “Defendant CHRISTINE DOE” in the Second Amended
Complaint on the grounds Plaintiff failed to remove their request for attorney
fees after the court previously granted Defendant’s motion to strike
Plaintiff’s attorneys’ fees demand without leave to amend and moreover, the
“facts” alleged against defendant “Christine Doe” continue to fall short of identifying
any viable basis for a claim against Ms. Doe. 
 
The request for
attorney fees is deemed stricken in the second amended complaint. As
noted, the court has previously granted the motion to strike attorney fees
without leave to amend. As for the Christine Doe allegations, there are now
sufficient allegations against Christine Doe for her alleged misrepresentations
regarding the safety of the fried rice. 
 
Accordingly, the
motion to strike is DENIED. 