  Case Number:  22VECV00545    Hearing Date:   June 21, 2024    Dept:  W ZEEBA COMPANY,
INC. vs CENTURY AUTO SPORT, et al.
 
MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL 
 
Date
of Hearing:        June 21, 2024                                     Trial Date:       None
set.   
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV00545
 
Moving Party:            Thomas
D. Sands, Esq., Counsel for Zeeba Company, Inc. 
Responding Party:     No
opposition. 
 
FACTUAL
BACKGROUND
 
On April 19, 2022, Plaintiff Zeeba
Company, Inc., a California corporation, filed a Complaint against Defendants
Century Auto Sport, Sean Jacobi, and Does 1 through 10, alleging (1) breach of
contract; (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) intentional
misrepresentation; (4) negligent misrepresentation; (5) false promise; (6) replevin/claim
and delivery conversion; (7) conversion; (8) tort of another claim for attorney’s
fees; (9) Violation of Penal Code §496; (10) unfair competition. (Complaint, p.
1.) 
 
On July 6, 2022, CAS Financial Services,
Inc. (hereinafter “Cross-Plaintiff/Defendants”) filed a cross-complaint against
Zeeba Company, Inc., Kayvon Marashi, Kambiz Marashi, Does [sic] 1 10
(hereinafter Cross-Defendants/Plaintiff”), alleging (1) breach of oral
contract; (2) breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealing; and (3) fraud
(intentional misrepresentation). (Cross Complaint, p. 1.) An amended
cross-complaint was filed October 10, 2022. 
 
The original complaint filed by Zeeba
Company Inc. arose from a transaction made between Plaintiff and Defendants in
which Plaintiff agreed to sell and Defendants agreed to purchase three vehicles
for $7,500, $9,200, and $22,750. (Complaint, ¶12). Prior to paying for the vehicles,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants removed the three vehicles from Plaintiff’s
vehicle lot without Plaintiff’s knowledge or consent, despite the terms of the
Sale Agreement stating that “payment in full is required prior to delivery to
Purchaser [Century] and that vehicle will not be delivered until full payment
has been received.” (Id. at ¶ 13). To date, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
“. . . continue to hold the vehicles hostage, refuse to pay for the vehicles or
sign the necessary paperwork for titles to be released, and have even demanded
that Zeeba pay ‘storage fees’ for the vehicles by the Defendants.” (Id. at
¶16). Cross-Plaintiff alleges that Cross-Defendants did not present clean title
of the three vehicles they had purchased and for several months thereafter,
would still not produce clean legal titles to the three vehicles (“the vans”) (Cross-Complaint,
¶12-14.)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: 
 
Counsel contends client has declined to sign the substitution of
attorney form, necessitating the filing of the instant motion. Client has deliberately
ceased all communication with counsel, therefore rending it impossible for
counsel to effectively represent them. 
 
Counsel has complied with the requirements of CRC Rule 3.1362 by
filing forms MC-051 and MC-052 and lodging with the Court a copy of the
proposed order on form MC-053. Counsel confirmed Plaintiff’s last known address
by doing a California Secretary of State entity search.  
 
Trial is not set. There is an order to show cause for failure to
obtain counsel for corporate plaintiff and sanctions to plaintiff for failing
to appear set for June 21, 2024. 
 
Accordingly, the Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is GRANTED.  Counsel is to warn corporate Plaintiff that
they can only appear through counsel because it is a corporation, and
corporations cannot proceed in pro per. 
 
 
 