 Case Number:  BC689037    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  50  Superior Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




RICK SIEGEL,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
DAVID A. ALESSI, et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


BC689037




Hearing Date:


October 31, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    2:00 p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
 
AMENDED MOTION
  FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION OF ISSUES




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS


 




Background
On January 3, 2018,
Plaintiff Rick Siegel (“Siegel”) filed this action against Defendants 
David A. Alessi (“Alessi”); Robert A.
Koenig (“Koenig”); Alessi & Koenig; Alessi & Koenig, a Professional
Corporation; and Alessi & Bayard. Siegel filed the operative Second Amended
Complaint (“SAC”) on July 29, 2019, alleging causes of action for (1) breach of
fiduciary duties, (2) constructive fraud, (3) intentional misrepresentation,
and (4) legal malpractice.[1] 
On March 8, 2019, Koenig
filed a Cross-Complaint against Alessi for indemnity and contribution. On
February 10, 2020, Alessi filed a Cross-Complaint against a number of
Cross-Defendants, alleging causes of action for equitable indemnity and
comparative indemnity. 
Siegel now moves for an
order granting summary judgment in favor of Siegel, or in the alternative, for summary
adjudication of issues. Koenig opposes.[2] 
Evidentiary Objections 
On
October 17, 2024, Koenig filed a document captioned “Objection to all Testimony
of Plaintiff’s Expert Mr. Krueger in Opposition to Motion for Summary
Judgment/Adjudication.” 
The Objection
provides, inter alia, that “Defendant Robert Koenig objects to consideration of any
testimony of Plaintiff’s expert Brandon Krueger on the grounds that (a) the
testimony was based on a letter containing facts for Mr. Kruger to assume; (b)
Plaintiff’s moving papers fail to provide the evidence to prove the truth of
the factual assumption; and (c) Plaintiff’s failure to provide that evidence
renders the expert’s opinions incompetent, at best, and inadmissible at worst.”
(Koenig’s October 17, 2024 Objection at p. 1:23-27.) 
As
an initial matter, it is unclear what testimony Koenig objects to. Koenig’s
objections do not comply with the formatting requirements set forth in California Rules of Court, rule 3.1354, subdivision (b).
This provision provides, inter alia, that “[o]bjections to specific evidence must
be referenced by the objection number in the right column of a separate statement
in opposition or reply to a motion, but the objections must not be restated or
reargued in the separate statement. Each written objection must be numbered
consecutively and must: (1) Identify the name of the document in which the
specific material objected to is located; (2) State the exhibit, title,
page, and line number of the material objected to; (3) Quote or set forth
the objectionable statement or material; and (4) State the grounds for
each objection to that statement or material.” (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1354, subd. (b).) 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court overrules Koenig’s “objection to all testimony of
Plaintiff’s expert Mr. Krueger.” 
Legal Standard
“[A] motion for summary
judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
a judgment as a matter of law.” ((Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “A party may move for summary adjudication
as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative
defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the
party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no
affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in¿Civil Code section
3294, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to
the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” ((Id., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)¿“A motion for
summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause
of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (f)(1).)¿
The moving party bears
the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact. ((Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) If the moving party carries this burden, the burden shifts to the
opposing party to make a prima facie showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists. ((Ibid.)
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing
summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.” ((Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
For
purposes of motions for summary judgment and summary adjudication, a plaintiff
“has met his or her burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of
action if that party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling
the party to judgment on the cause of
action.” ((Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)
Discussion
A.    Allegations of the SAC  
In the SAC, Siegel
alleges that “[t]he events that gave rise to the causes of action alleged
herein relate to plaintiff’s former home at 3379 Tareco Drive, in Los Angeles,
which plaintiff acquired in 2001, and which defendants caused plaintiff to lose
via foreclosure on April 13, 2017.” (SAC, ¶ 1.) “In November 2010, plaintiff
retained Thomas J. Bayard and the Alessi & Bayard partnership to defend
plaintiff from a wrongful foreclosure action being threatened by JP Morgan
Chase Bank (‘Chase.’).” (SAC, ¶ 8.) 
“On September 6, 2011,
to prevent Chase from wrongly foreclosing on plaintiff’s home, Alessi &
Bayard and Thomas J. Bayard filed a complaint for injunctive relief against
Chase, Los Angeles Superior Court case number BC469058.” (SAC, ¶ 10.) “On
January 7, 2013, after Alessi & Bayard filed a notice of settlement, the
action against Chase was dismissed, with the court retaining jurisdiction under
section 664.6 of the Code of Civil Procedure.”
(SAC, ¶ 15.) 
“On March 18, 2014,
notwithstanding that Chase had settled with plaintiff and the court had
retained jurisdiction in case number BC469058 under Code
of Civil Procedure section 664.6, Alessi & Bayard and Thomas J. Bayard
filed a new complaint for injunctive relief against Chase on plaintiff’s
behalf, case number BC539725.” (SAC, ¶ 16.) “On September 10, 2015, the second
suit for injunction…was dismissed after Alessi & Bayard and Thomas J.
Bayard filed a request for its dismissal.” (SAC, ¶ 19.)
“On March 2, 2016,
Alessi & Koenig filed a third complaint in a new action for injunctive
relief against Chase, case number BC611566. This third complaint identified
Alessi & Koenig as a general partnership and was filed in Robert Koenig’s
name.” (SAC, ¶ 20.) “On September 19, 2016, Alessi & Koenig and Eva
Hollands filed a first amended complaint for injunctive relief in the third
action against Chase…On November 15, 2016, Chase filed a demurrer to the first
amended complaint filed by Alessi & Koenig.” (SAC, ¶¶ 22-23.) “On December
13, 2016, the court in plaintiff’s third action against Chase issued a minute
order stating that there had been no appearance at the hearing on Chase’s
demurrer by Eva Hollands, nor anyone else from the firm of Alessi & Koenig,
nor anyone at all on plaintiff’s behalf. The minute order also reflected
plaintiff had failed to file an opposition to the demurrer. Chase’s unopposed
demurrer was sustained without leave to amend.” (SAC, ¶ 27.) “On January 4, 2017,
judgment was entered against plaintiff.” (SAC, ¶ 28.) 
“About December 2016,
Bayard informed plaintiff he was no longer working with Thomas J. Alessi or
Alessi & Koenig, but that he was still working with Robert A. Koenig on
many issues, including plaintiff’s case.” (SAC, ¶ 26.) “On January 25, 2017,
when curiosity led him to the State Bar’s Web site, plaintiff learned that
Thomas Bayard’s license to practice had been suspended in 2015. When plaintiff
asked Bayard about that, Bayard said that he had stopped going to court years
ago, and Koenig was supervising all the filings and appearances.” (SAC, ¶ 29.) “About
March 4, 2017, Thomas Bayard told plaintiff the judge had denied Chase’s
demurrer. Plaintiff said it was a good time to settle and sell the house, and
that he had spent thousands of dollars getting it ready for sale.” (SAC, ¶ 31.)
“On April 19, 2017, the State Bar filed an order disbarring Thomas Bayard. No
notice of the disbarment was given to plaintiff.” (SAC, ¶ 35.) 
“On April 13, 2017, as
plaintiff was leaving his home, a stranger walked up and told plaintiff that
plaintiff’s house had been auctioned off that morning, and he was a representative
of the buyers, Rida Hamzeh and Windsor Asset Properties.” (SAC, ¶ 32.) “Rida
Hamzeh filed an unlawful detainer action against plaintiff and plaintiff’s
wife.” (SAC, ¶ 34.) 
“On April 27, 2017, in
preparation for responding to Hamzeh’s unlawful detainer complaint, Koenig set
up another conference call with plaintiff and plaintiff’s wife. Also on the
conference was Alejandro H. Herrera of Hess, Hess & Herrera. At the start
of the phone call, Koenig introduced Herrera to plaintiff and his wife as
someone David Alessi had hired to work on plaintiff’s behalf and protect his
interests; Koenig said Herrera was an unlawful detainer specialist.” (SAC, ¶
39.) “[P]laintiff spoke subsequently with Herrera. Herrera asked plaintiff what
it would take to get closure. Plaintiff replied that it seemed at that point
that closure would have to come from Alessi & Koenig. Herrera asked ‘how
much?’ Plaintiff did some calculations and said ‘$250,000.’ Herrera replied, ‘I
will take that to my client.’ Plaintiff responded that he was Herrera’s client.
Herrera denied that he had been introduced as plaintiff’s representative or
that he was doing any work in plaintiff’s interest.” (SAC, ¶ 42.) 
Thereafter, “all the
defendants abandoned plaintiff’s representation,” and that “Alejandro Herrera
emailed plaintiff a letter captioned ‘URGENT NOTICE OF DISCHARGE AND CONFLICT,’
and ‘Disengagement and Notice,’ which stated that Herrera had been retained by
David Alessi in connection with plaintiff’s representation by David Alessi and
Robert Koenig, and that plaintiff should direct all further communications to
Hess, Hess & Hererra’s office. Hererra’s letter went on to say that David
Alessi and Robert Koenig ‘will not render legal services to you on these or any
related matters.’ Herrera advised plaintiff on how plaintiff might respond to
Rida Hamzeh’s unlawful detainer complaint, and then accused plaintiff of having
attempted extortion and creating a conflict of interest.” (SAC, ¶ 44.)
“The defendants having
refused plaintiff’s several requests that they file a motion for relief on
plaintiff’s behalf under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, so that plaintiff could have a chance to contest the unlawful
detainer action; and having been advised by the defendants that they were
abandoning him with but one day left for plaintiff to respond to the unlawful
detainer complaint served on him; defendants left plaintiff with no reasonable
opportunity to find and retain another attorney to represent him.” (SAC, ¶ 45.)
“Plaintiff, a layperson suddenly left ‘in pro per’ by defendants, did the best
he could to try and mitigate his damages. Plaintiff drafted and filed his own
motion for relief under Code of Civil Procedure section
473. Having been abandoned by his attorneys, plaintiff was unable to seek
mandatory relief under subsection (b) of Section 473.”
(SAC, ¶ 46.) “Koenig opposed plaintiff’s motion for relief instead of assisting
it, and Koenig urged the court to reject plaintiff’s motion; which it did.”
(SAC, ¶ 47.) 
B.    First Cause of Action for Breach of Fiduciary Duties  
In the motion, Siegel first asserts that “undisputable facts show
Koenig breached the fiduciary duties attached to his relationship with Rick
Siegel.” (Mot. at p. 9:16-18.) “The elements of a cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duty are: (1) the existence of a fiduciary duty; (2) the breach of
that duty; and (3) damage proximately caused by that breach.” ((Mosier v. S. Cal. Physicians Ins. Exch. (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1022, 1044.)
Siegel notes that “[t]he relationship between an attorney and client is a
fiduciary relationship of the very highest character.” ((Lee
v. State Bar of California (1970)
2 Cal.3d 927, 939.) 
Siegel asserts that here, Koenig developed an attorney-client
relationship with Siegel. Exhibit 1 to Siegel’s supporting declaration is a
“copy of [Siegel’s] August 22, 2011 fee agreement with Tom Bayard and Alessi
& Bayard.” (Siegel Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1.) Exhibit 1 provides, inter alia,
that “[t]his Retainer Agreement…is made this date between Rick Siegel…and the
Law Offices of Alessi & Bayard…” (Siegel Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. 1.) Siegel cites
to the deposition testimony of “Brandon Krueger, a designated expert witness in
this action.” (Arden Decl., ¶ 27.) Mr. Krueger testified that “there was some
sort of business entity of unclear form that started in this representation as
‘Alessi & Bayard’ and later became called ‘Alessi & Koenig,’ pleadings
were filed under both firm names.” (Arden Decl., ¶ 27 (Krueger Depo.) at p. 38:9-12.)[3]
Siegel notes that “by retaining a single attorney, a client establishes an
attorney-client relationship with any attorney who is a partner of or is
employed by the retained attorney.” ((Streit v.
Covington & Crowe (2000) 82
Cal.App.4th 441, 445.) 
Siegel’s counsel also states in his supporting declaration that “[a]ttached
as Exhibit 21 is a copy of a set of text messages sent between the parties from
April 25, 2017 to May 1, 2017.” (Arden Decl., ¶ 21.) As discussed, Siegel’s
exhibits appear to be numbered incorrectly. Siegel appears to cite to an April
27, 2017 text on page “Exhs. 180” of Siegel’s exhibits. (Siegel’s Undisputed
Material Fact (“UMF”) No. 79.) A text message from April 27, 2017 next to the
initials “RK” provides, inter alia, “Good morning Rick ... been doing a
lot of reseach [sic] on your case ... working on it now…Demurrer to Unlawful
Detainer Complaint is due on Monday…” (Arden Decl., ¶ 21, “Exhs. 180.”) Siegel
also cites to an April 26, 2017 text message next to the initials “RK”
providing, “[w]e will be up until 10pm…we are working on the Demurrer to
Unlawful Detainer.” (Ibid.)
            Siegel cites to Lister v. State Bar (1990) 51 Cal.3d 1117, 1120, where “[i]n 1983, Juanita
Merritt retained petitioner on an hourly fee basis (Merritt contended it was on
a contingency fee basis) to file suit for improper use of photographs of her.” The
Lister Court noted, inter alia, that “Petitioner contends that
because Merritt never paid him, there was no attorney-client relationship.
Although there apparently was a misunderstanding as to whether or not
petitioner was retained on a contingency fee basis, the record supports the
finding that an attorney-client relationship existed between them. Merritt
testified that she asked petitioner to file the lawsuit on her behalf, and gave
him all the relevant documents. She understood that petitioner was working
on the matter. Petitioner’s office did, in fact, do substantial work on the
case. No formal contract or arrangement or attorney fee is necessary to create
the relationship of attorney and client. It is the fact of the relationship
which is important. Under the circumstances, an attorney-client relationship
existed between petitioner and Merritt.” ((Id. at p. 1126 [internal quotations and
citations omitted].)  In addition, in
Streit v. Covington & Crowe, supra, 82 Cal.App.4th at page 444,
the Court of Appeal noted that although the attorney-client relationship “usually
arises from an express contract between the attorney and the client, it may
also arise by implication. Neither contractual formality nor compensation nor
expectation of compensation is required.” (Internal quotations and citations
omitted.) 
            In the opposition, Koenig asserts
that “there was never an attorney client relationship at any material time.”
(Opp’n at p. 10:1.) In his declaration in support of the opposition, Koenig
states that “I was a member of Alessi & Koenig, LLC, a Nevada law firm
(A&K-Nevada), since before Mr. Siegel’s underlying lawsuit.” (Koenig Decl.,
¶ 3.) Koenig states that “I resigned from A&K-Nevada in August or September
2016. As of the date of my departure from that firm, Mr. Siegel was never a
client of A&K-Nevada. As of the date of my departure from A&K-Nevada, I
was never Mr. Siegel’s lawyer and had not yet met him.” (Koenig Decl., ¶ 5.) 
            Koenig also states that “I have
never been in a partnership with Mr. Alessi. I was a member of a Nevada Limited
Liability Company with Mr. Alessi, but that is a different type of entity. To
the best of my knowledge there has never been an Alessi & Koenig general
partnership or partnership of any kind.” (Koenig Decl., ¶ 6.) In addition,
Koenig states that “I had no involvement in the Alessi & Bayard law firm. I
did not even know it existed while it existed.” (Koenig Decl., ¶ 7.) Koenig states
that “I understand that a corporation entitled Alessi & Koenig, a
Professional Corporation (‘A&K-California’) was formed in or about 2013.
According to the California Secretary of State web site, A&K-California was
formed on June 28, 2013. I was not involved in the formation of
A&K-California. I was not a shareholder of A&K-California. I never agreed
to be an officer of A&K-California. A&K-California filed a Certificate
of Dissolution on March 6, 2017. The Certificate of Dissolution purports to
have my signature, and it appears to be my signature. I do not recall if I
actually signed it but may have because my name had previously been put onto
the corporation without my knowledge.” (Koenig Decl., ¶ 26.) Koenig states that
“neither A&K-Nevada nor A&K-California were the law firms of record on
any of Mr. Siegel’s lawsuits against Chase. The second and third lawsuits were
filed by Mr. Bayard under the name Alessi & Koenig (neither the Nevada LLC
or the California corporation), which was a law firm that never actually
existed to my knowledge.” (Koenig Decl., ¶ 27.) 
Koenig also states that “I understand from the complaint in this
action and from reviewing the LASC website that the Alessi & Bayard law
firm filed a lawsuit for Mr. Siegel, which was entitled Siegel v. J.P. Morgan
Chase, etc., et al. LASC Case No. BC469058 (‘Siegel/Chase-1’).” (Koenig Decl.,
¶ 9.) Koenig states that “I had no involvement in Siegel/Chase-1 at any time,”
and that “I had no involvement with the law firm that litigated Siegel/Chase-1.”
(Koenig Decl., ¶¶ 12-13.) Koenig states that “Mr. Siegel was not my client or
client of any law firm with which I was involved while Siegel/Chase-1 was
pending.” (Koenig Decl., ¶ 14.) 
            In addition, Koenig states that “I
understand from the complaint in this action and from reviewing the LASC
website that a law firm called Alessi & Koenig, with Thomas Bayard as the
attorney of record filed a second lawsuit for Mr. Siegel, which was entitled
Siegel v. J.P. Morgan Chase, etc., et al. LASC Case No. BC539725 (‘Siegel/Chase-2’).”
(Koenig Decl., ¶ 15.) 
Koenig
states that “I had no involvement in Siegel/Chase-2 at any time,” and that “I
had no involvement with the law firm that litigated Siegel/Chase-2.” (Koenig
Decl., ¶¶ 18-19.) Koenig states that “Mr. Siegel was not my client or client of
any law firm with which I was involved while Siegel/Chase-2 was pending.”
(Koenig Decl., ¶ 20.) 
            Koenig also states that “I
understand from the complaint in this action and from reviewing the LASC
website that a law firm called Alessi & Koenig filed a third lawsuit for
Mr. Siegel, which was entitled Siegel v. J.P. Morgan Chase, etc., et al. LASC
Case No. BC611566 (‘Siegel/Chase-3’).” (Koenig Decl., ¶ 21.) Koenig states that
“[m]y name is on the complaint, but I did not authorize my name to be put
there. I understand that what purports to be my signature is on some of the
filings in that action, but I never signed any pleadings or authorized anyone
to sign my name. According to the LASC website, Siegel/Chase-3 was dismissed on
January 25, 2017.” (Koenig Decl., ¶ 21.) Koenig states that “I had no
involvement in Siegel/Chase-3 at any time,” and that “I had no involvement with
the law firm that litigated Siegel/Chase-3.” (Koenig Decl., ¶¶ 23-24.) Koenig
states that “Mr. Siegel was not my client or client of any law firm with which
I was involved while Siegel/Chase-3 was pending.” (Koenig Decl., ¶ 25.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Koenig has raised a
triable issue of material fact as to whether an attorney-client relationship
existed between Siegel and Koenig while the three lawsuits filed by Siegel were
pending (Case Nos. BC469058, BC539725, and BC611566). As noted above, the purported
attorney-client relationship is the basis of the asserted fiduciary
relationship here. 
            In his supporting declaration, Koenig
also states that “I started having meaningful communications with Mr. Siegel on
or about April 25, 2017, after the foreclosure.[4]
There were two subjects of those discussions, namely Mr. Siegel being evicted
from the house he had lost in foreclosure and the possibility of filing a
Motion to Vacate the Dismissal of the lawsuit against Chase pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure § 473…I agreed to see if I
could help Mr. Siegel, but I never agreed to represent him on either matter of
concern. I never submitted an engagement agreement, and obviously he never
signed one. I never submitted an invoice for services, and he did not pay me
anything. I did have extensive discussions about whether I could assist Mr.
Siegel, but it never went beyond the preliminary discussion stage. My skills
and experience did not match his needs.” (Siegel Decl., ¶¶ 35-36.) Koenig states
that “I had suggested that attorney Alex Herrera could assist Mr. Siegel defend
the unlawful detainer action, but that representation did not go far. On April
29, 2017, Mr. Herrera represented Mr. Alessi rather than Mr. Siegel. Mr.
Herrera confirmed that in a letter to Mr. Siegel, which is attached as Exhibit
186 to his summary judgment papers…Mr. Herrera’s letter includes the following
statement: ‘this letter confirms that Mr. Alessi and Mr. Koenig, will not
render legal services to you on these or any related matters.’ Thus, as of
April 29, 2017, it was unambiguous and clear that I would not be Mr. Siegel’s
lawyer.” (Siegel Decl., ¶¶ 38-39.) 
            Koenig asserts that “[w]hile there
might have been confusion about me representing [Mr. Siegel] during the time
period of April 25, 2017 (when I was exchanging test messages with Mr. Siegel)
and April 29, 2017 (when Mr. Herrera unequivocally stated I would not represent
Mr. Siegel), nothing material happened in that time period. In addition, that was
after the foreclosure, when the issue was whether there was a defense to an
unlawful detainer action. I was not aware of any potentially dispositive
defense to prevent the new owners from taking possession of the house they
bought.” (Koenig Decl., ¶ 46.) 
In the motion, Siegel appears to argue that Koenig breached fiduciary
duties to him in connection with matters unrelated to the subject unlawful
detainer action. As discussed, the Court finds that Koenig has raised a triable
issue of material fact as to whether an attorney-client relationship existed
between Siegel and Koenig while the three lawsuits filed by Siegel were pending
(Case Nos. BC469058, BC539725, and BC611566).
As to the second element of his breach of fiduciary duty cause of
action (breach), Siegel also argues that he “repeatedly asked Koenig to file a
motion for him, for relief under Code of Civil
Procedure section 473.2 Did he? Would he? No, and no.’” (Mot. at p. 11:9-10.)[5] Siegel
appears to cite to an April 25, 2017 text message he sent to Koenig stating,
“[a]s you heard, Tom confirmed that we should put in the CCP 473 motion. From reading the code, I’m wondering
if we’re too late.” (Seigel’s UMF No. 74, Arden Decl., ¶ 21, “Exhs. 179”- “Exhs.
180.”) Siegel does not appear to cite to any further evidence showing any
additional requests that “Koenig…file a motion for him.” (Mot. at p. 11:9.) Siegel
cites to California Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule
1.1, subdivision (a), which provides that “[a] lawyer shall not
intentionally, recklessly, with gross negligence, or repeatedly fail to perform
legal services with competence.” It appears Siegel is arguing that Koenig violated
California Rules of Professional Conduct, Rule 1.1
by failing to file a motion under Code of Civil
Procedure section 473 in the subject unlawful detainer action. However, Siegel
does not appear to cite to evidence demonstrating that Koenig’s failure to file
a Code of Civil Procedure section 473 motion in
the unlawful detainer action was negligent or incompetent. It is unclear to the
Court from Siegel’s motion how any Code of Civil
Procedure section 473 motion is relevant to the alleged unlawful detainer
action against Siegel. 
            To the extent Siegel is arguing that
Koenig should have filed a Code of Civil Procedure
section 473 motion in one of Siegel’s three lawsuits (Case Nos. BC469058, BC539725,
and BC611566), no such allegations appear to be included in the SAC. The Court
notes that “[t]he function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is
to delimit the scope of the issues: the function of the affidavits or
declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within
the issues delimited by the pleadings.” ((FPI
Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991)
231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381.) In addition, as discussed, the Court finds
that Koenig has raised a triable issue of material fact as to whether an
attorney-client relationship even existed between Siegel and Koenig while the
three alleged lawsuits filed by Siegel were pending (Case Nos. BC469058, BC539725,
and BC611566). 
            Siegel also argues that “[w]hen
Koenig told Siegel falsely that he had brought attorney Alex Herrera in to help
Siegel with his case, he violated subsection (d) of Section
6068.” (Mot. at p. 12:4-6.) Business and
Professions Code section 6068, subdivision (d) provides that “[i]t is the
duty of an attorney to do all of the following:…(d) To employ, for the purpose
of maintaining the causes confided to him or her those means only as are
consistent with truth, and never to seek to mislead the judge or any judicial
officer by an artifice or false statement of fact or law.” But Siegel does not
appear to cite to any evidence demonstrating that “Koenig told Siegel falsely
that he had brought attorney Alex Herrera in to help Siegel with his case.” (Mot.
at p. 12:4-5.)  
            In addition, Siegel argues that “when
Koenig revealed Siegel’s confidential information to Herrera with[6]
Siegel’s knowledge or consent, he violated subsection (e) of Section 6068.” (Mot. at p. 12:16-18.) Business and Professions Code section 6068, subdivision
(e)(1) provides that “[i]t is the duty of an attorney to do all of the
following:…(e)(1)To maintain inviolate the confidence, and at every peril to
himself or herself to preserve the secrets, of his or her client.” But again,
Siegel does not appear to provide evidence showing that Koenig revealed
Siegel’s confidential information to Mr. Herrera without Siegel’s knowledge or
consent. As noted by Koenig, Siegel does not appear to identify “what
confidential information he asserts was disclosed…” (Opp’n at p. 16:15.) 
            Siegel also asserts that “[w]hen
Koenig filed a declaration in Siegel’s case opposing Siegel’s interests in
seeking relief from the judgment (a judgment that Koenig caused to be imposed
by ignoring the court previously [Exhs. p. 242,] he violated subsection (d) of Section 6068 by being untruthful, former RPC Rule 3-310 by engaging in a conflict of interest with
a current client (now see Rule 1.7,) as well as
former RPC 3-200(B), by presenting unwarranted claims (now see Rule 3.1(a)(2).).” (Mot. at pp. 12:22-13:2.) As
an initial matter, it is unclear what “declaration” Siegel is referring to. As
discussed, it appears Siegel’s exhibits are not correctly numbered. The “Exhs.
242” referenced by Siegel appears to be deposition testimony from the
deposition of Brandon Krueger. The following testimony is highlighted on page
242 of Siegel’s Exhibits: “[w]ith respect to Mr. Koenig, my opinion goes even
further in that I believe his declaration contained falsehoods and was a breach
of fiduciary duty even to a former client in the sense that it was an act
contrary to the interests of the clients in -- in the very matter in which the
-- Mr. Siegel had previously been represented.” (Arden Decl., ¶ 27 (Krueger
Depo.) at p. 73:12-18.) Again, it is unclear what “declaration” Siegel is
referring to. 
            Moreover, Siegel argues that he was
damaged because “[a]s a direct and proximate result of Koenig’s inaction and
refusal to engage, Siegel’s case was dismissed and his house was lost forever.”
(Mot. at p. 14:3-4.) But as discussed, the Court finds that Koenig has raised a
triable issue of material fact as to whether an attorney-client relationship
existed between Siegel and Koenig while the three lawsuits filed by Siegel were
pending (Case Nos. BC469058, BC539725, and BC611566). As set forth above, Koenig
provides evidence that he “started having meaningful communications with Mr.
Siegel on or about April 25, 2017, after the foreclosure.” (Siegel
Decl., ¶ 35, emphasis added.) 
            Siegel also argues that “[p]unitive
damages, too, should be awarded…because Koenig’s refusal to file a motion for
relief for Siegel under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473 was so punitive to Siegel.” (Mot. at p. 15:6-9.) Siegel does
not cite to or discuss any legal authority to support such request for punitive
damages. In addition, the Court does not find that Siegel has shown that Koenig
breached any fiduciary duty in connection with the alleged failure to file a motion
for relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 473.

            Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Koenig has raised triable issues of material fact as to Siegel’s
first cause of action for breach of fiduciary duties. 
C.    Second Cause of
Action for Constructive Fraud 
Siegel cites to Salahutdin v. Valley of
California, Inc. (1994) 24
Cal.App.4th 555, 562, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a]s a
general principle constructive fraud comprises any act, omission or concealment
involving a breach of legal or equitable duty, trust or confidence which
results in damage to another even though the conduct is not otherwise
fraudulent. Most acts by an agent in breach of his fiduciary duties constitute
constructive fraud.” (Emphasis omitted.) In the motion, Siegel argues that
“Koenig is liable for constructive fraud because he breached his duties trying
to gain advantage over Siegel.” (Mot. at p. 14:13-15.) As an initial matter, it
is unclear what Siegel means by Koenig trying to “gain an advantage” over
Siegel.  
Siegel appears to argue that constructive fraud exists because Koenig
breached fiduciary duties to Siegel. Siegel argues that “Koenig recklessly
refused Siegel’s request for the filing of a motion for relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 473.” (Mot. at p.
16:12-13.) This argument is discussed above in connection with Siegel’s first
cause of action. As discussed, the Court finds that Koenig has raised triable
issues of material fact as to Siegel’s first cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duties. 
Moreover, the Court notes that Siegel does not appear to move for
summary adjudication as to his three separate causes of action against Koenig
for breach of fiduciary duties, constructive fraud, or legal malpractice. (See
Siegel’s Notice of Motion at pp. 1:25-2:7.) The Court notes that in Schmidlin v.
City of Palo Alto (2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 728, 743-744, the Court of Appeal found as follows: 
 
“A motion
for summary adjudication tenders only those issues or causes of action
specified in the notice of motion, and may only be granted as to the matters
thus specified. The movant must ‘state[] specifically in the notice of motion
and … repeat[], verbatim, in the separate statement of undisputed material
facts,’ ‘the specific cause of action, affirmative defense, claims for damages,
or issues of duty’ as to which summary adjudication is sought. (Cal. Rules of Court, former rule 342(b); see now Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(b).) The motion must be denied if the movant
fails to establish an entitlement to summary adjudication of the matters thus
specified; the court cannot summarily adjudicate other issues or claims, even
if a basis to do so appears from the papers. (See Gonzales v. Superior Court (1987) 189 Cal. App. 3d
1542, 1546 [235 Cal. Rptr. 106] [‘‘If a party desires
adjudication of particular issues or subissues, that party must make its
intentions clear in the motion… .’ [Citation.] There is a
sound reason for this rule: ‘… the opposing party may have decided to raise
only one triable issue of fact in order to defeat the motion, without intending
to concede the other issues. It would be unfair to grant a summary adjudication
order unless the opposing party was on notice that an issue-by-issue
adjudication might be ordered if summary judgment was denied’ ”].)
            Based on the foregoing, the Court
does not find that Siegel has demonstrated that summary adjudication should or
may be granted as to Siegel’s second cause of action for constructive fraud. 
D.    Fourth Cause of
Action for Legal Malpractice 
Lastly, Siegel argues that “Koenig committed legal malpractice ‘per
se’.” (Mot. at p. 17:1.) Siegel notes that “[u]nder the doctrine of negligence
per se, negligence will be presumed if: (1) a person violated a statute or
regulation, (2) that violation injured another person or their property, (3)
the injury was of a type the statute or regulation was designed to
prevent, and (4) the person or property injured was of the class the statute or
regulation was designed to protect.” (MMize v.
Mentor Worldwide LLC (2020) 51 Cal.App.5th 850, 865.)

As an initial matter, Siegel’s fourth cause of action is for “legal
malpractice,” not “negligence per se.” As noted by Koenig, there is no cause of
action for negligence per se. As discussed, “[t]he function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues: the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” ((FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima, supra, 231 Cal.App.3d at p. 381.)
“The pleadings delimit the scope of the issues on a summary judgment
motion…Evidence offered on an unpleaded claim, theory, or defense is irrelevant
because it is outside the scope of the pleadings.” (California
Bank & Trust v. Lawlor¿(2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 625, 637, fn. 3 [internal
citations omitted].) Here, Siegel’s motion discusses the elements of negligence
per se, but such a cause of action was not alleged in the SAC. Moreover, as
discussed, Siegel does not move for summary adjudication as to his fourth cause
of action for legal malpractice (or as to any of the individual causes of
action).
            Based on the foregoing, the Court
does not find that Siegel has demonstrated that summary adjudication should or
may be granted as to Siegel’s fourth cause of action for legal malpractice.  
            Lastly, the Court notes that in the
notice of motion, Siegel argues that “[a]lternatively, if for any reason
summary judgment cannot be had,” Siegel seeks an “order adjudicating that there
is no triable issue of material fact as to: (a) There having been an
attorney-client relationship between Rick Siegel and Robert A. Koenig; (b)
Robert A. Koenig having breached a duty of due care owed to Rick Siegel; (c)
Robert A. Koenig having breached fiduciary duties owed to Rick Siegel; (d)
Robert A. Koenig having caused Rick Siegel to suffer damages.” (Mot. at p.
2:1-7.) As discussed above, the Court finds that Koenig has raised triable
issues of material fact with respect to issues (a), (c), and (d). In addition,
Siegel’s motion does not appear to discuss issue (b), i.e., “Robert A. Koenig
having breached a duty of due care owed to Rick Siegel.” (Mot. at p. 2:4-5.) Thus,
the Court denies Siegel’s motion for summary adjudication of the foregoing
issues.
///
///
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Siegel’s motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication of issues is denied in its entirety. 
Koenig is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
DATED:  October 31, 2024                           ________________________________
Hon.
Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge,
Los Angeles Superior Court
 


