  Case Number:  23TRCV00799    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  P Motion  for Summary Judgment   Moving  Party: Defendant Providence  Health System – Southern California Responding Party: Plaintiffs Ruma Barua and Ratan  Barua   RULING   The court  considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. Defendant’s motion for  summary judgment is GRANTED.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND   On March 17, 2023, Plaintiffs Ruma Barua (“Ruma”) and Ratan Barua (“Ratan”)  (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Providence Health System  – Southern California (“Defendant”) and DOES 1-50, inclusive, alleging causes  of action for (1) medical malpractice and (2) loss of consortium.   On June 27, 2023, Defendant filed an answer.   On July 9, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion. On October 18, 2024,  Plaintiffs filed an opposition. On October 30, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.   FACTUAL BACKGROUND   On March  5, 2022, Ruma was brought to Defendant’s emergency room (“ER”). (UMF No. 1.)  Prior to hospitalization, Ruma had an extensive history of lupus, positive  rheumatoid factor, Sjogren’s antibody, congestive heart failure, chronic  fatigue, hyperlipidemia, hypertension, diabetes, and other hospitalizations.  (UMF No. 2.) Upon admission, her white blood cell count of 2.1 indicated that  she was immunocompromised. (UMF No. 15.)   Ruma  suffers from schizophrenia, which had been well-controlled by medication until  she was weaned off her medications several months before her admission to  Defendant’s ER. (UMF No. 3.) Ruma refused medications and became combative,  including biting family members hard enough to cause bleeding. (UMF No. 3.) Ruma  was admitted to Defendant’s facilities to be medically stabilized. (UMF No. 3.)  Upon admission, the ER provider noted that Ruma had been living in a  psychiatric care facility for ten years in Virginia before moving to  California. (UMF No. 3.)   The day  Ruma was admitted, a peripheral IV line was placed in her left forearm to  administer medications. (UMF No. 4.) Her lab results indicated that she had low  red blood cells, low white blood cells, and low platelets. (UMF No. 4.) Ruma  had systemic lupus erythematosus (“SLE”), and a hematology consultation was  ordered. (UMF No. 4.)   On March  8, 2022, Ruma removed her peripheral line, and a new right ante-cubital  20-gauge was placed in her right wrist with no issue. (UMF No. 5.) Hospital  staff noted that Ruma was distrusting of her care providers, non-compliant,  frequently refused medical care and law draws, and frequently acted paranoid  and anxious. (UMF No. 5.) Ruma wore soft wrist restraints for her protection.  (UMF No. 5.)   From March  8 to March 14, 2022, no issues were found with the right anterior IV line. (UMF  No. 6.) It was documented every day to be dry, intact, and operational. (UMF  No. 6.) At this time, Ruma showed no signs of phlebitis. (UMF No. 6.)   On March  15, 2022, the right anterior IV line was replaced. (UMF No. 7.) No issues were  noted between March 16 and March 18, 2022. (UMF No. 7.)   On March  19, 2022, medical staff noted that Ruma had a fever from the previous day, but  it was difficult to assess her condition because she was a poor historian. (UMF  No. 8.) The same day, blood cultures were obtained and tested positive for MSSA.  (UMF No. 8.) Ruma had severe pulmonary hypertension and right wrist cellulitis.  (UMF No. 8.) Ruma’s chronic kidney disease worsened, and she started hemodialysis  due to renal failure. (UMF No. 8.)   Around  March 22, 2022, infectious disease specialist Dr. Chia noted that the IV site  was swollen. (UMF No. 9.) Dr. Chia diagnosed Ruma with a MSSA  bacteremia/endovascular infection. (UMF No. 9.)   On March  24, 2022, Ruma was afebrile. (UMF No. 10.) A drainage procedure was performed  on the IV site. (UMF No. 10.) Subsequent blood cultures were negative. (UMF No.  10.)   On April  2, 2022, Ruma was noted to be interactive and responsive, until she developed a  fever. (UMF No. 11.) Two days later, an MRI of the brain was performed. (UMF  No. 11.) The MRI showed chronic enterovirus infection and bacterial seeding.  (UMF No. 11.) By mid-April 2022, Ruma was found to have infarcts that were  assessed as acute embolic stroke. (UMF No. 12.)   Ruma  continued to be treated at Defendant’s facilities for several months. (UMF No.  13.) Her diagnoses included acute toxic metabolic encephalopathy. (UMF No. 13.)  Her care team noted that her diagnosis was multi-factorial and related to her  underlying health conditions. (UMF NO. 13.) Ruma was discharged on November 5,  2022.   Defendant’s  expert witness opines that Ruma’s IV lines were changed properly, but  Plaintiffs’ expert witness argues that the lines were not changed according to  the CDC’s guidelines. (UMF No. 14.) Moreover, the parties dispute whether  Defendant’s nursing staff was negligent in monitoring Ruma for signs of  infection. (Plaintiffs’ Response to UMF No. 23.)              LEGAL STANDARD             In reviewing a motion for summary judgment, courts must apply a  three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine  whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine  whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material  factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th  289, 294.)    “[T]he initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie  showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v.  D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant  moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden  of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one  or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that  there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §  437c, subd. (p)(2).) A moving defendant need not conclusively negate an  element of plaintiff’s cause of action. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.  (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)    To meet this burden of showing a cause of action cannot be established, a  defendant must show not only “that the plaintiff does not possess needed  evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed  evidence.” (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.) It is  insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the absence of  evidence. (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884,  891.) The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot  reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.” (Ibid.) The  supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,  depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice  may be taken. (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.)  “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the  plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts  exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations  or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact  exists, but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable  issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”  (Ibid.)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center  (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)    DISCUSSION               Moving Party’s Argument   Defendant moves for summary judgment on the basis that its staff met the  applicable standard of care. Further, Defendant argues that its conduct was not  a substantial factor in Plaintiffs’ injuries because she had underlying health  conditions.   Opposing Party’s Argument   Plaintiffs provide testimony from Dr. Michael Fitzgibbons, who opines  that Defendant’s expert consultants did not provide sufficient support for  their opinions that Defendant acted within the applicable standard of care.  Testimony from Plaintiffs’ experts will show that Defendant’s nursing staff  failed to timely change Ruma’s IV line.   Reply Argument   Plaintiffs have not provided any evidence that there is a triable issue  of material fact because they have not provided competent nursing expert  testimony. Defendants argue that an infection disease specialist is not  qualified to speak on the standard of care for nurses.   Merits of the Motion   A.  Medical Malpractice   1.  Standard of Care   In a medical malpractice action, a plaintiff must establish the following  elements: “(1) the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and  diligence as other members of his profession commonly possess and exercise; (2)  a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent  conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from  the professional's negligence. [citations.]”  (Galvez v. Frields  (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 1410, 1420.)   “Both the standard of care and defendants’ breach must normally be  established by expert testimony in a medical malpractice case.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center  (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) Thus, in a medical malpractice case, “[w]hen a  defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his motion with expert  declarations that his conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is  entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with  conflicting expert evidence.” (Munro v. Regents of University of California  (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 977, 984-85 (citations omitted).) An expert  declaration, if uncontradicted, is conclusive proof as to the prevailing  standard of care and the propriety of the particular conduct of the health care  provider.” (Starr v. Mooslin (1971) 14 Cal.App.3d 988, 999.)   In medical malpractice litigation, the standard of care applicable to  defendant physicians is going to be different than the standard of care  applicable to defendants who are hospitals, hospital nurses, and hospital  staff. (See, e.g., Lattimore v. Dickey (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 959,  969—970 (Lattimore) [board-certified physician was competent as to the  standard of care for physicians in a wrongful death action but was not  competent in the same wrongful death action as to the standard of care  applicable to the hospital, hospital nurses, and hospital staff, where his  declaration did not indicate certification, expertise, and relevant knowledge  regarding hospital care].)   Defendant submits the expert declarations of Howard Pitchon, M.D. (“Dr.  Pitchon”) and Katherine Kelly, RN (“Dr. Kelly”). Dr. Pitchon is a licensed  medical doctor who specializes in internal medicine and infectious diseases.  (Pitchon Decl., ¶¶ 1-2.) Dr. Pitchon declares that he has treated countless  patients with IV lines, treated numerous patients who have developed access  site infections, and is knowledgeable and experienced in the placement and  maintenance of IV lines. (Pitchon Decl., ¶ 5.) Dr. Kelly is a licensed nurse  practitioner, who declares that she has placed hundreds to thousands of IV  lines for patients. (Kelly Decl., ¶¶ 1, 4.) Dr. Kelly states that she teaches  various courses, including medical-surgical and critical care nursing, nursing  research, and routine care. (Kelly Decl., ¶ 4.) Dr. Kelly and Dr. Pitchon base  their opinions on their education, training, experience, and review of Ruma’s  medical records. (Pitchon Decl., ¶ 7; Kelly Decl., ¶ 7.)   Upon review of Ruma’s medical records, Dr. Pitchon opines that her  infection did not develop as a result of negligence. (Pitchon Decl., ¶ 9.) Ruma’s  records and notes from her general surgeon, Dr. Albert Lam, did not indicate  that she was showing signs of infection. (Pitchon Decl., ¶ 9.) Thus, there was  no basis for her care team to diagnose her infection earlier. (Pitchon Decl., ¶  9.) In Dr. Pitchon’s opinion, Ruma was predisposed to developing such an  infection because of her underlying health conditions, such as diabetes,  autoimmune disorder, poor oral intake, and schizophrenia, all of which  contributed to poor healing at the IV insertion location. (Pitchon Decl., ¶  11.) Further, IV lines should only be changed when clinically indicated, i.e.,  when there are signs of phlebitis. (Pitchon Decl., ¶ 10.) Ruma showed no such  signs, so there was no indication that her IV line needed to be replaced.  (Pitchon Decl., ¶ 10.) Thus, poor nursing care was not a substantial factor in  her injury. (Pitchon Decl., ¶ 11.)   Further, Dr. Kelly opines that Defendant’s nursing staff acted within the  standard of care at all times during Ruma’s treatment. (Kelly Decl., ¶ 9.) Changing  IV lines does not improve efficacy in preventing infections, and frequent  changes can cause more vascular injuries. (Kelly Decl., ¶ 14.) Ruma’s IV was  properly placed and showed no signs of infection for about two weeks. (Kelly  Decl., ¶ 13.) Thus, it was well within the standard of care to change the IV  line after seven days. (Kelly Decl., ¶ 13.) Dr. Kelly also states that staph  aureus commonly occurs on the skin, so infection can occur even without  negligent care. (Kelly Decl., ¶ 15.) Here, Ruma was immunocompromised and more  susceptible to developing such an infection. (Kelly Decl., ¶ 15.) Thus, Dr.  Kelly opines that the nursing care with respect to the placement and  maintenance of the IV line was not a significant contributing factor in Ruma’s  injury. (Kelly Decl., ¶ 16.)   Thus, the court finds that Defendant has met its initial burden of showing  that its conduct fell within the standard of care, and the burden shifts to  Plaintiffs.   Plaintiffs provide the Declaration of Michael Fitzgibbons, M.D. (“Dr.  Fitzgibbons”) in opposition. Dr. Fitzgibbons is a licensed physician and  Board-certified in internal medicine and infectious diseases. (Fitzgibbons  Decl., ¶ 1.) Dr. Fitzgibbons indicates that his opinions are based on personal  knowledge of the facts in his declaration and review of Ruma’s medical records.  (Fitzgibbons Decl., ¶¶ 2-3.) He opines that Defendant’s nurses failed to follow  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s (“CDC”) guidelines for IV  replacement. (Fitzgibbons Decl., ¶ 7.) The CDC’s website recommends that IVs,  such as the one inserted in Ruma, should be changed every 72-96 hours to reduce  the risk of phlebitis in adults. (Fitzgibbons Decl., ¶ 7.)  He concludes “that the nurses at [Defendant’s  Hospital] failed to change an IV line, which failure caused the infection.” (Id.  at ¶14.) Notably, Dr. Fitzgibbons never does not opine that the CDC guidelines  for IV replacement reflect the relevant standard of care.   In reply, Defendants cite to Alef v. Alta Bates Hospital (1992) 5  Cal.App.4th 208, 215, which states that “a nurse’s conduct must not be measured  by the standard of care required of a physician or surgeon, but by that of  other nurses…” Accordingly, testimony from a nursing expert is required to  establish that a nurse did not meet the applicable standard of care. (Massey  v. Mercy Medical Center Redding (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 690, 694–695,  quoting Kelley v. Trunk (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 519, 523.; Lattimore,  supra, 239 Cal.App.4th at pp. 969-970.)   Here, Dr. Fitzgibbons does not declare that he has any expertise in  nursing or in the maintenance and placement of IV lines. Thus, his declaration  is inadmissible to show that Defendant’s nursing staff fell short of the  standard of care.   Accordingly, the court finds that Plaintiffs have not met their burden of  showing that there is a triable issue of material fact as to whether  Defendant’s conduct met the standard of care.   2.  Causation   The proximate causation element should be based upon whether defendant’s  conduct was a “substantial factor” in bringing about the plaintiff’s injuries.  (Mitchell v. Gonzales (1991) 54 Cal.3d 1041, 1053.) Furthermore, the  causation “must be proven within a reasonable medical probability based on  competent expert testimony. Mere possibility alone is insufficient to establish  a prima facie case.” (Jones v. Ortho Pharmaceutical Corporation, et al.  (1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 396, 402-403.)   Defendant contends that Ruma was immunocompromised, and any negligence on  Defendant’s part was not a substantial factor in causing her injury. In  support, Defendant provides the Declaration of Dr. Pitchon, who opines that Ruma’s  underlying health conditions were the cause of her infection rather than  inadequate nursing care. MSSA infections can occur anytime there is a break in  the skin, even in the absence of negligence. (Pitchon Decl., ¶ 10.) Ruma’s  pre-existing health conditions caused her to heal slowly, increasing the risk  of developing an infection at the IV insertion site. (Pitchon Decl., ¶ 11.)  Thus, it is Dr. Pitchon’s opinion that inadequate nursing care was not a  substantial factor in her infection. (Pitchon Decl., ¶ 11.) Dr. Kelly’s  Declaration reflects similar opinions. (Kelly Decl., ¶¶ 15-16.)   The court finds that Defendant has met its initial burden of showing that  its conduct was not a substantial factor in causing Ruma’s injuries. Thus, the  burden shifts to Plaintiffs to show that there is a triable issue of material  fact as to causation.   In opposition, Dr. Fitzgibbons states that an internist noted a “skin  picking” abnormality near the insertion site, which was missed by her nurses,  indicating that her nurses failed to perform a thorough assessment. (Fitzgibbons  Decl., ¶ 7.) Dr. Fitzgibbons also declares that Dr. Chia found brown pus at the  insertion site on March 20, 2022, yet on the same date, Ruma’s nurses indicated  there were no signs of phlebitis or other abnormalities near the site. (Fitzgibbons  Decl., ¶ 8.) In his opinion, it is medically improbable that Ruma showed no  signs of infection prior to her official diagnosis. (Fitzgibbons Decl., ¶¶  7-8.) Thus, it is his opinion that the nurses’ failure to timely change the IV  line and adequately monitor the insertion site were the cause of her injuries,  not her underlying health conditions.   As the court noted above, Dr. Fitzgibbons is unqualified to opine on  appropriate nursing care. Accordingly, the court finds that Plaintiffs have not  established that Defendant’s nursing staff’s conduct was the proximate cause of  Ruma’s injuries. Even if Plaintiffs were able to establish causation, they  cannot establish that Defendant’s conduct fell short of the required standard  of care, as discussed above. Thus, Plaintiffs cannot establish all the elements  of a medical malpractice cause of action.   Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED as to the first cause  of action.   B.  Loss of Consortium   “A cause of action for loss of consortium is, by its nature, dependent on  the existence of a cause of action for tortious injury to a spouse.” (Vanhooser  v. Superior Court (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 921, 927.) As Defendant is not entitled  to summary judgment on the medical malpractice cause of action, Defendant is  not entitled to summary judgment on this cause of action.   Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED as to the second cause  of action for loss of consortium.   CONCLUSION   Based on  the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.   Defendant to give notice.  