  Case Number:  23PSCV01147    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  G Defendant Pomona Valley  Hospital Medical Center’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint Respondent: Plaintiffs Kelly  Chu and Ken Chu Defendant Pomona Valley  Hospital Medical Center’s Motion to Strike  Portions of Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint Respondent:  Plaintiffs Kelly Chu and Ken Chu TENTATIVE RULING Defendant Pomona Valley  Hospital Medical Center’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. Defendant Pomona Valley  Hospital Medical Center’s Motion to Strike  Portions of Plaintiffs’ First Amended Complaint is GRANTED. Defendant Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center is further  ordered to file their answer to the First Amended Complaint within twenty (20)  days of this order. BACKGROUND This  is an action for dependent adult abuse. On April 28, 2022, Plaintiff Kelly Chu was  admitted to Defendant Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center (PVHMC)’s intensive  care unit (ICU) after suffering a stroke. To prevent the formation of deep vein  thrombosis, PVHMC staff began to utilize a sequential compression device. From  April 29 to April 30, Kelly Chu alleges PVHMC staff failed to ensure the  sequential compression device did not cause injury or discomfort to Kelly Chu. As  a result, Kelly Chu alleges the sequential compression device caused a medical  device-related pressure injury to form. On  April 18, 2023, Kelly Chu and Ken Chu filed a complaint against PVHMC and Does  1-250, alleging the following causes of action: (1) dependent adult  abuse/neglect, (2) negligence, and (3) loss of consortium. On  September 14, 2023, the Chus filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) against the  same Defendants alleging the same causes of action. On October  30, 2023, PVHMC filed the present demurrer and motion to strike. Prior to  filing on October 23, PVHMC’s counsel met and conferred telephonically with the  Chus’ counsel and was unable to reach a resolution. (Hayati Decl., ¶ 6.) A hearing  on the demurrer and motion to strike is set for November 30, 2023, with a case  management conference on February 22, 2024. ANALYSIS PVHMC  demurs to Kelly Chu’s first cause of action for dependent adult abuse and  neglect. For the following reasons, the court SUSTAINS their demurrer without leave  to amend. Legal Standard Demurrer A  party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.  (e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn  v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering  demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT  Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding,  the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial  notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,  994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other  extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face  of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court  (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing  is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,  states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.) Elder Abuse Pursuant to the Elder Abuse and Dependent Adult Civil Protection  Act (EADACPA), a “dependent adult” is defined as any person “regardless of  whether the person lives independently, between the ages of 18 and 64 years who  resides in this state and who has physical or mental limitations that restrict  his or her ability to carry out normal activities or to protect his or her  rights, including, but not limited to, persons who have physical or  developmental disabilities, or whose physical or mental abilities have  diminished because of age.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, §15610.23, subd.  (a).) “Abuse of an elder or a dependent adult” includes (1) “[p]hysical abuse, neglect,  abandonment, isolation, abduction, or other treatment with resulting physical  harm or pain or mental suffering” or (2) “[t]he deprivation by a care custodian  of goods or services that are necessary to avoid physical harm or mental suffering.”  (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.07, subd. (a)(1), (2).) Neglect is defined as the “[t]he negligent failure of any person  having the care or custody of an elder or a dependent adult to exercise that  degree of care that a reasonable person in a like position would exercise.”  (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.57, subd. (a)(1).) It includes but is not  limited to: “(1) Failure to assist in personal  hygiene, or in the provision of food, clothing, or shelter. (2) Failure to provide medical care for  physical and mental health needs. A person shall not be deemed neglected or  abused for the sole reason that the person voluntarily relies on treatment by  spiritual means through prayer alone in lieu of medical treatment. (3) Failure to protect from health and  safety hazards. (4) Failure to prevent malnutrition or  dehydration. (5) Substantial inability or failure of an  elder or dependent adult to manage their own finances. (6) Failure of an elder or dependent adult  to satisfy any of the needs specified in paragraphs (1) to (5), inclusive, for  themselves as a result of poor cognitive functioning, mental limitation,  substance abuse, or chronic poor health.” (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.57,  subd. (b).) For heightened remedies under EADACPA, “a plaintiff must allege  conduct essentially equivalent to conduct that would support recovery of  punitive damages.” (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32  Cal.4th 771, 789 (Covenant Care).) “[W]hen the medical care of an elder  is at issue, ‘the statutory definition of “neglect” speaks not of the undertaking  of medical services, but of the failure to provide medical care.” (Carter  v. Prime Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 404-405  (Carter), quoting Covenant Care, supra, 32 Cal.4th at p.  783.) “To obtain the remedies provided by [EADACPA] pursuant to section  15657, ‘a plaintiff must demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that defendant  is guilty of something more than negligence; he or she must show reckless,  oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious conduct.’ [Citation.] Recklessness refers  ‘to a subjective state of culpability greater than simple negligence, which has  been described as a deliberate disregard of the high degree of probability that  an injury will occur.’ Oppression, fraud and malice involve intentional or  conscious wrongdoing of a despicable or injurious nature.” (Sababin v. Superior  Court (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 81, 88–89, quoting Delaney v. Baker (1999)  20 Cal.4th 23, 31 (Delaney).) Discussion In  this case, PVHMC argues Plaintiff Kelly Chu failed to sufficiently allege  egregious abuse or neglect. Pursuant to the EADACPA, “neglect refers not to the  substandard performance of medical services but, rather, to the ‘failure of  those responsible for attending to the basic needs and comforts of elderly or  dependent adults, regardless of their professional standing, to carry out their  custodial obligations.’” (Covenant Care, supra, 32 Cal.4th at p. 783,  quoting Delaney, supra, 20 Cal.4th at p. 34.) In other words, “the  statutory definition of ‘neglect’ speaks not of the undertaking of  medical services, but of the failure to provide medical care.”  (Ibid.) In Kruthanooch v. Glendale  Adventist Medical Center (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 1109 (Kruthanooch), while  undergoing an MRI at a hospital, an elder patient received second degree burns  after the hospital’s staff failed to remove an EKG patch that had been placed  on the elder patient’s chest. (Id., at p. 1116-1118.) The court held the  hospital’s failure to properly screen the elder patient before taking the MRI  did not constitute neglect because the harm occurred while they were  undertaking medical services. (Id., at p. 1134-1135.) And in Carter,  a hospital’s failure to administer antibiotics and stock a crash cart with the  correct endotracheal tubes did not constitute neglect where the hospital’s  staff were actively providing treatment and instead suggested professional  negligence. (Id., at p. 408.) Here,  Plaintiff Kelly Chu alleges the pressure injury was caused by the failure to  routinely inspect the skin beneath the medical device, the failure to regularly  reposition Kelly Chu, the failure to ensure the medical device was the  appropriate size, and the failure to ensure enough nursing staff were available  for patient safety. (FAC, ¶ 30.) But, Plaintiff Kelly Chu also alleges the  nursing staff continuously applied the sequential compression device as ordered  from April 28 to April 30. (FAC, ¶ 20.) Based on these alleged facts, Plaintiff  Kelly Chu’s pressure injury was not caused by PVHMC’s failure to provide care.  Rather, it appears the pressure injury was caused by allegedly negligent use of  the sequential compression device. Because Plaintiff Kelly Chu’s injury was  allegedly caused by the undertaking of medical services rather than a failure  to provide care, the court finds that Plaintiff Kelly Chu failed to allege the  requisite neglect. Accordingly,  PVHMC’s demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED without leave to  amend. Additionally, PVHMC’s motion to strike seeks to strike attorney fees and  punitive damages requested pursuant to the EADACPA.  Therefore, the motion is strike is GRANTED  for the same reasons described above. CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, Defendant  PVHMC’s demurrer to the FAC is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. Defendant PVHMC’s motion to strike is GRANTED. Defendant PVHMC is ordered to  file its answer to the First Amended Complaint, as stricken, within twenty (20)  days of this order.