  Case Number:  20STCV28247    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  74 Elvir
Babakhanloo v. Karen Bagdoyan, et al.
Motion to Set Aside Default and
Default Judgment.
The
court considered the moving papers and opposition. No reply was timely filed.
BACKGROUND 
            On
July 27, 2020, Plaintiff Elvir Babakhanloo (Plaintiff) filed a complaint
alleging malicious prosecution against Defendant Hayk Grigoryan (Defendant).
            On
December 5, 2022, default was entered against Defendant.
            On
March September 21, 2023, Defendant filed this motion to set aside the default.
LEGAL STANDARD
            Within two years of default, a
defendant may obtain relief by showing “lack of notice” of the proceedings.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5, subd. (a).) “Upon a finding by the court that the
motion was made within the period permitted by subdivision (a) and that his or
her lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or
her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect, it may set aside the default
or default judgment on whatever terms as may be just and allow the party to
defend the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473.5, subd. (c).) 
DISCUSSION  
            Defendant
aims to set aside the default entered against him. On March 24, 2022, Plaintiff
filed a proof of service indicating Defendant was personally served at the
following address: 6320 Canoga Avenue Woodland Hills, CA 91367. Defendant
claims “no evidence in the universe” connects him to that address. But
Plaintiff has provided a letter from Defendant that identifies the address as
his place of business. (Keropian Decl., ¶ 4; Ex. 1.) The court denied
Defendant’s prior March 23 motion to set aside the default because Defendant
could not reconcile the letter with his assertion that he was not affiliated
with the address at issue. However, the court denied the motion without
prejudice to filing this renewed motion with reliable evidence addressing the
issue. Defendant’s renewed motion ignores the existence of the letter discussed
during the hearing on Defendant’s previous motion to vacate. Instead, Defendant
now contends identity thieves used his name. (Grigoryan Decl., ¶ 23.) He also
claims documents support his contention, but those documents are not attached
to his motion or declaration. In addition, Defendant has not attached to the
copy of the motion filed with the court a copy of his proposed answer (although
it appears he may have served his answer on Plaintiff.) (Code of Civ. Proc. §
473, subd. (b).)
CONCLUSION 
Based
on the foregoing, the court denies Defendant’s motion to set aside his default
and the default judgment entered against him. 
Plaintiff
shall give notice.