

 
SERVICE: 

 
[X]
Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK
[X]
Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK 
[X]
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK  
 
OPPOSITION:          None filed as of March 28, 2024                    [   ] Late          [X] None 
REPLY:                     None filed as of April 04, 2024                      [   ] Late          [X] None 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 6, 2023, Plaintiff
Amber Lorraine Reyes (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant Adriana
Natale Weber (“Defendant”) for defamation.
 
Defendant filed her Answer to the
Complaint on March 08, 2023. 
 
On December 26, 2023, Defendant
filed and served the instant unopposed motion for judgment on the pleadings and
asserts that Plaintiff’s complaint for defamation fails to state a claim
against Defendant. According to the proof of service, Defendant’s motion for
judgment on the pleadings was served on Plaintiff—who is representing herself
in pro per—by electronic service. The Court on its own motion continued the
hearing on the instant motion to April 11, 2024, to allow Defendant to serve
the instant motion through authorized means and file proper proof of service of
the Motion and notice of the continued hearing date. 
 
No opposition has been filed. 
 
 
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
Defendant contends that the
complaint fails to state a cause of action for defamation, fails to allege a
defamatory statement, and fails to identify to whom a defamatory statement was
made. Additionally, Defendant asserts that the complaint is vague and conclusory.
Defendant requests that the motion be granted without leave to amend.  
 
OPPOSITION
 
            No
opposition has been filed. 
 
REPLY
 
            No reply
has been filed. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
II.        Legal
Standard 
The standard for ruling on a motion for judgment on the
pleadings is essentially the same as that applicable to a general demurrer,
that is, under the state of the pleadings, together with matters that may be
judicially noticed, it appears that a party is entitled to judgment as a matter
of law.  (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th 316, 321-322,
citing Schabarum v. California Legislature (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th
1205, 1216.)  Matters which are subject to mandatory judicial notice may
be treated as part of the complaint and may be considered without notice to the
parties. Matters which are subject to permissive judicial notice must be
specified in the notice of motion, the supporting points, and authorities, or
as the court otherwise permits. (Id.)  The motion may not be
supported by extrinsic evidence. (Barker v. Hull (1987) 191 Cal.App.3d
221, 236.) 
 
When the moving party is a defendant,
he or she must demonstrate that either of the following conditions exist: (i) that
the court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in
the complaint; or (ii) that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against the defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438,
subd. (c)(1)(B).)  
 
Additionally, a motion for judgment on the pleadings must
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to
meet and confer in person or by telephone, at least five days before the date a
motion for judgment on the pleadings is filed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 439.)  
II.        Discussion
            A. Meet
and Confer Requirement 
 
Before addressing the merits, the Court notes that the
Motion is accompanied by a “meet and confer” declaration as required by Code of
Civil Procedure Section 439(a). Here, Defendant provides the declaration of her
counsel who states that prior to filing the instant motion, counsel attempted
to contact Plaintiff via email and by phone on December 18, 2023, to meet and
confer regarding Plaintiff’s Complaint. Counsel later declares that as of the February
29th hearing date, Plaintiff failed to respond to counsel’s emails or return
his calls. (Tye G. Trostad Decl. ¶ 3.) Counsel additionally states that on
March 08, 2024, counsel wrote Plaintiff a detailed meet and confer letter,
inviting her to contact counsel to discuss both the Complaint and the instant
motion. (Id. ¶ 5; Exh. A.) Counsel made further attempts to meet and
confer on March 11 and March 12, 2024, but to no avail. (Id. ¶ 6.)
Counsel swears that, “As of the date of this Declaration, I have not
received a return call to my voice mails, nor have I received a reply to my
March 12, 2024, email…Moreover, none of my emails to Plaintiff have been ‘bounced
back’ as not being delivered.” (Id. ¶ 8.) Here,
the Court finds that Plaintiff’s declaration satisfies the meet and confer
requirement under 439(a). Thus, the Court moves on to
the merits.
 
            B. Cause
of Action – Defamation
 
            In
its prior order, the Court found that the Complaint did not state a cause of
action for defamation. (See. 02/29/24 Minute Order.)  However, the Court found that while it was
inclined to grant the instant motion, service had not been properly rendered on
the Plaintiff as prescribed under CCP § 1010.6 and ordered the Defendant to
effectuate proper service of the motion and notice of continuance. (Id.)
 
            Here,
the Court notes that since the Court’s order, Defendant has filed proof of service
indicating that the motion was served on Plaintiff by mail on March 08, 2024.
(03/12/24 Proof of Service by Mail.) Defendant additionally provides the Court
with proof of service, attached to Defendant’s Notice of Continuance, indicating
that Plaintiff was served by mail with notice of continuance on the same day
service was rendered for the instant motion. (03/12/24 Notice of Continuance of
MJOP.) Therefore, the Court finds that the service requirements under CCP §
1010.6 have been satisfied and GRANTS Defendant Weber’s Motion for Judgment on
the Pleadings. 
 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            Defendant Adriana Natale
Weber’s Motion for Judgment on
the Pleadings is GRANTED. 
 
Within
10-days, Counsel for Defendant is ordered to electronically submit a proposed form
of Judgment consistent with Part I.B.1 of the Court’s February 29, 2024, Minute
Order.
 
The August 5,
2024 Trial date is advanced and vacated.
 
            Moving party is ordered to give
notice.