    SERVICE:      [X]  Proof of Service Timely Filed (CRC, rule 3.1300)                      OK [X]  Correct Address (CCP §§ 1013, 1013a)                                      OK  [X]  16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP §§ 12c, 1005(b))                       OK     OPPOSITION:          None filed as of March 28, 2024                    [   ] Late          [X] None  REPLY:                     None filed as of April 04, 2024                      [   ] Late          [X] None    BACKGROUND On December  29, 2021, Plaintiff Labor Commissioner, State of California (“Plaintiff” or  “Labor Commissioner”) filed an action against Defendants Benbaroukh, LLC  (“Benbaroukh”), Elias Shokrian (“Shokrian”), and Edward Villegas aka Eduardo  Villegas (“Villegas”), (collectively “Defendants”), for (1) foreclosure of  mechanic’s lien, (2) unpaid regular wages, (3) overtime wages (Labor Code §  510), (4) liquidated damages (Labor Code § 1194.2), (5) waiting time penalties  (Labor Code § 203), (6) unreimbursed business expenses and attorney’s fees  (Labor Code § 2802), (7) itemized wage statements (Labor Code § 226), and (8)  late payment of wages (Labor Code § 210).  On  September 22, 2022, Defendants Benbaroukh, LLC, and Shokrian, filed a joint  Answer to the Complaint. Defendant Benbaroukh also filed a Cross-Complaint for  breach of contract against Cross-Defendants Fredy E. Donato Duarte (“Duarte”)  and Oscar Antonio Beltran Pineda (“Pineda”) and for declaratory relief against  Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Labor Commissioner and Cross-Defendants Duarte and  Pineda.  On October  24, 2022, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Labor Commissioner filed a Demurrer  (“Demurrer”) to the Cross-Complaint. On November 30, 2022, pursuant to  Defendant/Cross-Complainant’s request to be heard, the Court did not adopt its  tentative ruling and continued the hearing on the Demurrer to allow  Defendant/Cross-Complainant an opportunity to file an opposition sixteen (16)  days before the next scheduled hearing. On December  30, 2022, twelve (12) days before the hearing, Defendant/Cross-Complainant  Benbaroukh filed an Opposition to the Demurrer. The Court sustained  Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Labor Commissioner’s Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint  and granted Defendant/Cross-Complainant 30 days leave to amend.  On April  24, 2023, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant Labor Commissioner moved for default to be  entered against Defendant Villegas. The Clerk did so the same day.  On August  29 and 30, 2023, Plaintiff/Cross Defendant filed motions to compel attendance  at deposition and production of documents for Defendants Shokrian and  Benbaroukh. The Court granted both of Plaintiff’s motions and awarded sanctions  in the total amount of $1,400 against the Defendants and Defendants’ Counsel.  On February  7, 2024, Counsel Jason M. Stone, Esq. (“Counsel”) filed the instant Motion to  be Relieved as Counsel for Defendants. (“Motion”).  No  opposition has been filed. MOVING PARTY  POSITION               Counsel prays to  the Court for an order to relieve him as counsel for Defendants Benbaroukh  and Shokrian  citing a breakdown in the attorney client relationship. Counsel states that irreconcilable  differences have arisen between Defendant and Cross-Complainants Benbaroukh  and Shokrian which has caused undue delay to the proceedings and has rendered  counsel unable to continue the representation of both clients without conflict.       OPPOSITION               No  opposition has been filed.   REPLY               No reply  has been filed.    ANALYSIS   I.          Legal Standard  The  court may order that an attorney be changed or substituted at any time before  or after judgment or final determination upon request by either client or  attorney and after notice from one to the other. (Code Civ. Proc. § 284, subd.  (2).) “The determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as  counsel lies within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi  & Levine v. Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.) An  application to be relieved as counsel must be made on Judicial Counsel Forms  MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053  (Proposed Order). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subds. (a), (c), (e).)    In  addition, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362 subsection (d) requires that  the notice of motion and motion, declaration, and proposed order be served on  the client and all other parties who have appeared in the case by personal  service, electronic service, or mail. If the notice is served by mail, it must  be accompanied by a declaration stating facts showing that either:  (A)  The  service address is the current residence or business address of the client; or    (B)   The  service address is the last known residence or business address of the client,  and the attorney has been unable to locate a more current address after making  reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days before the filing of the motion to  be relieved.    (Cal.  Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (1)(A) & (2).)     Under the Code of  Civil Procedure section 1014, “A  defendant appears in an action when the defendant answers, demurs, files a  notice of motion to strike, files a notice of motion to transfer pursuant to  Section 396(b), moves for reclassification pursuant to Section 403.040, gives  the plaintiff written notice of appearance, or when an attorney gives notice of  appearance for the defendant. After appearance, a defendant or the defendant's  attorney is entitled to notice of all subsequent proceedings of which notice is  required to be given. Where a defendant has not appeared, service of notice or  papers need not be made upon the defendant.”   II.        Discussion    As a preliminary matter, the Court notes that the Counsel  for the Defendant/Cross-Complainant Benbaroukh and Defendant Shokrian files the instant motion to be  relieved as counsel for both clients.  So, the Court addresses the motion as to both  Defendants below.    On February 07, 2024, Counsel moved for the Court to  relieve him as counsel of record for Defendant/Cross-Complainant Benbaroukh  and Defendant Shokrian. (Mot.  (MC-051).) Counsel properly filed a Notice of Motion and Motion  (MC-051). Counsel also filed a Declaration in Support of the Motion (MC-052)  stating that,    There has been an attorney-client  relationship breakdown over the course of the proceeding. Irreconcilable  differences have arisen between Defendant and Cross-Complainants Benbaroukh LLC  and Elias Shokrian and Counsel which causes undue delay to the proceeding.  Counsel will be unable to continue representing the Defendants and  Cross-Complainant without conflict.   (MC-052, ¶ 2.) On his Form MC-052, Counsel indicates that he has  served Defendant/Cross-Complainant and Defendant Shokrian by mailing copies of  the motion papers to each of their last known address.  (MC-052 ¶  3a(2).) Counsel avers that the address provided as the current address of the  Defendant/Cross-Complainant Benbaroukh and Defendant Shokrian was confirmed within  the last 30 days by conversation. (MC-052 ¶ 3b(1)(c).)   Counsel also provides the Court with a  Proposed Order, Form MC-053, which further includes Proof of Service indicating  that all parties have been served with the Notice, Motion, Declaration, and  Order. (MC-053.)   Here, the Court finds that all procedural requirements have  been satisfied and that there is no indication that  withdrawal would cause injustice or undue delay in the proceedings.  However, the Court notes the  following deficiency with the motion.  Counsel has only filed and paid the court fees for one motion  to be relieved as counsel. Counsel may correct this deficiency by filing a  separate noticed motion, motion, declaration, and proposed judgment to be relieved  as counsel for either of the Defendants and accordingly paying the requisite filing  fees.  The Court will treat this initial  motion as applicable to whichever of the Defendants is not named in the  subsequent filing.    For this reason, Counselor Stone’s  Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Defendants Benbaroukh and Shokrian is CONTINUED.    III.       Conclusion                           Counsel Jason M. Stone’s  Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel for Defendants is CONTINUED to APRIL 22. 2024 at  10:00 a.m. in Department 25 at Spring Street Courthouse.    By 04/19/2024), Counsel/Moving Party is ordered to file  supplemental papers which provide the Court and all parties with an additional SEPARATE  NOTICED MOTION as to Defendant Elias Shokrian, declaration, and proposed Order  to be relieved as counsel for  Defendant Elias Shokrian  within 10-days.  Failure to do so may result in the hearing being placed off calendar or denied. (A $60.00 motion fee must be paid for this separate motion)   Moving party is ordered to give  notice.  