 Case Number:  24NNCV01417    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



XIAO YONG CHEN, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
WAYNE
   UEI WANG, et al.,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
  )
  )
  )


     CASE NO.:  24NNCV01417
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

October
   30, 2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On May 6,
 2024, this action was filed by Xiao Yong
 Chen (“Plaintiff”) against Wayne Uei
 Wang and Jessie Wang (collectively, “Defendants”). Plaintiff asserts
causes of action for fraud, breach of contract, and conversion arising from a real
 estate transaction. On June 14,
 2024, Defendants filed this motion to compel arbitration and stay
action. The motion is unopposed. 
 
 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
In deciding a motion to compel
arbitration, trial courts must decide first whether an enforceable arbitration
agreement exists between the parties, and then determine the second gateway
issue whether the claims are covered within the scope of the agreement. (Omar
v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) The party seeking
arbitration has the “burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement
by a preponderance of the evidence, while a party opposing the petition bears
the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to
its defense.” (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232
Cal.App.4th 836, 842.) The trial court “sits as the trier of fact, weighing all
the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, and any oral
testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to reach a final
determination.” (Id.) General principles of contract law govern whether
parties have entered a binding agreement to arbitrate. (Pinnacle Museum
Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223,
236; see also Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)¿
III.       
DISCUSSION
“The party seeking to compel
arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement.” (Flores v. Evergreen at San Diego, LLC (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 581, 586 .) 
Here, Defendants attach a copy of the
Residential Purchase Agreement (“RPA”) which underlies their purchase of
Plaintiff’s property and gives rise to this action. (Wang Decl., Ex. 1.) The
RPA contains an arbitration provision which provides the following: 
A. The Parties agree that any dispute
or claim in Law or equity arising between them out of this Agreement or any
resulting transaction, which is not settled through mediation, shall be decided
by neutral, binding arbitration. . . . 
The arbitration shall be conducted through any arbitration provider or
service mutually agreed to by the Parties. The arbitrator shall be a retired
judge or justice, or an attorney with at least 5 years of residential real
estate Law experience, unless the Parties mutually agree to a different
arbitrator. Enforcement of, and any motion to compel arbitration pursuant to,
this agreement to arbitrate shall be governed by the procedural rules of the
Federal Arbitration Act, and not the California Arbitration Act,
notwithstanding any language seemingly to the contrary in this Agreement. The
Parties shall have the right to discovery in accordance with Code of Civil
Procedure § 1283.05. The arbitration shall be conducted in accordance with
Title 9 of Part 3 of the Code of Civil Procedure. Judgment upon the award of
the arbitrator(s) may be entered into any court having jurisdiction.
 
Defendants first note that in April
2024, Defendants initiated mediation with the California Association of
Realtors Mediation Center but Plaintiff failed to participate, instead filing
this action in state court. (Sedor Decl., ¶ 2.) Second, Defendants contend that
Plaintiff’s claims fall within the scope of the arbitration provision within
the RPA because Plaintiff alleges that Defendant breached the RPA, made
misrepresentations in connection with their real estate transaction, and
converted funds related to the RPA. The Court agrees. The RPA’s arbitration
provision encompasses “any dispute or claim in Law or equity arising between
[the parties] out of [the RPA] or any resulting transaction.” (Wang Decl., Ex.
1, ¶ 31.) Therefore, the burden shifts to Plaintiff to challenge the authenticity
of the agreement. (Gamboa v. Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72
Cal.App.5th 158, 165.) However, since Plaintiff did not oppose this motion,
Plaintiff necessarily fails to meet that burden. Accordingly, the motion to
compel arbitration is granted. 
IV.       
CONCLUSION
Defendants’ motion to compel
arbitration is GRANTED. 
Dated
this 30th
day of October, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.