 Case Number:  24NNCV01532    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



ARMANDO ROBLES, 
                    Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
GENERAL
   MOTORS, LLC, et al,
 
                    Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  24NNCV01532
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF DEFENDANT’S
   PERSON MOST QUALIFIED 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
October
   30, 2024




 


)


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On May 10, 2024, plaintiff Armando
Robles (“Plaintiff”) filed this action for restitution and damages against
defendant General Motors, LLC (“Defendant”) arising from alleged violations of
the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (“SBA”). Plaintiff alleges that on or
about October 29, 2017, he purchased a 2017 GMC Sierra 1500 (“Subject Vehicle”)
which suffered from nonconformities and that Defendant has been unable to or
refused to conform it to the applicable express and implied warranties under
the Act. (Compl., ¶¶ 10-13.) Plaintiff further alleges that Defendant has
failed to and refuses to repurchase the vehicle and make restitution. (Compl.,
¶¶ 14-15.) 
On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed
this motion for an order compelling Defendant’s Person Most Qualified (“PMQ”) to
appear for deposition and produce documents. The deposition notice identifies 9
categories of testimony and 10 categories of documents. (Motion, Ex. F.) 
On October 17, 2024, Defendant filed
its opposition brief and a separate statement. 
On October 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply brief. 
II.         
DISCUSSION
If a party or an officer, director,
managing agent, employee of a party, or person designated as the person most
qualified to testify fails to appear for examination or produce documents, the
demanding party may move to compel attendance, testimony, and production. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)
Plaintiff initially served a deposition
notice scheduling the deposition for July 3, 2024. (Motion, Ex. A.) On July 9,
2024, the deposition was rescheduled to July 31, 2024. (Ex. C.) On July 24,
2024, Defendant served objections to the notice and refused to produce a
witness on the grounds that the deposition was unilaterally noticed. (Ex. D.) The
day before the scheduled deposition, on July 29, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel
requested to meet and confer to choose a mutually agreeable date for the
deposition and to discuss the objections. (Ex. E.) Plaintiff’s counsel included
a letter and proposed to discuss the issues raised over the phone or Zoom. (Ex.
E.) 
On August 2, 2024, Plaintiff served a
Second Amended Notice of Deposition scheduling a deposition for August 22,
2024. On August 15, 2024, Defendant served objections and again complained that
the deposition was unilaterally noticed. 
On August 20, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel
emailed defense counsel requesting to meet and confer to choose a mutually
agreeable date. On September 23, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel followed up on their
request. Defendant did not respond to either request. This motion was filed on
September 27, 2024. Due to these multiple attempts to reschedule and discuss
Defendant’s objections, the Court finds that Plaintiff has fulfilled its
obligation to meet and confer prior to filing this motion. 
Category Nos. 1 through 4, 6, 8 and 9; 
Plaintiff’s Category Nos. 1 through 4,
6, 8 and 9 pertain to Defendant’s decision not to repurchase or replace the
Subject Vehicle, as well as the Subject Vehicle’s repair history, the internal
case number that was assigned to Plaintiff and the Subject Vehicle, any communications
about the Subject Vehicle and any investigation performed to determine whether
the Subject Vehicle qualified or repurchase or replacement.   
In response, Defendant asserted various
objections but agreed, subject to those objections, to “produce a witness at a
mutually agreeable time and place to discuss the relevant and nonprivileged
aspects of [each] [c]ategory.” (Motion, Ex. D.) 
Since Defendant agrees to produce a
witness, the motion to compel is GRANTED with respect to these categories of
examination. 
RFP Nos. 1, 2, 4, 6-8
These document requests ask for
documents and correspondence relating to the Subject Vehicle as well as
recalls, TSBs, and writings reviewed in deciding whether to repurchase or
replace the Subject Vehicle. 
Defendant states that it did not repair
or service the Subject Vehicle and that the Subject Vehicle was repaired and
serviced by an authorized repair facility. Nevertheless, to the extent that
responsive documents are in its possession, custody, and control, they must be
produced. Although Defendant refers Plaintiff to the repair orders, Service
Request Activity Report(s) and Global Warranty History Report previously produced
in response to Plaintiff’s Requests or Production of Documents, there is no
indication that these are the only responsive documents in their possession,
custody, and control. Accordingly, the motion to compel production is GRANTED. The
objections that the requests are vague, ambiguous, overbroad, unduly
burdensome, oppressive, irrelevant, and not reasonably calculated to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence, or seeks confidential, proprietary and
trade secret information are OVERRULED. 
 
 
Category Nos. 5 and 7; RFP Nos. 3, 5, and
9
These topics of examination and
document requests concern Defendant’s lemon law policies and procedures as well
as other vehicles which exhibited the same alleged nonconformities complained
of by Plaintiff, including the transmission. 
The Court GRANTS the motion to compel
and orders Defendant to produce its policy and procedure documents for
Song-Beverly Act compliance including any “buy back manual” provided to
decision makers would be ordered to be produced, subject to the privilege
limitations that communications with in-house counsel or outside counsel would
not be produced but identified in a privilege log. The discoverable policies
and procedures are limited to those applicable to California and the time
period when Plaintiff’s vehicle was subject to consideration for a buy back. 
Any information about other vehicles is
limited to those sold in California which are the same year, make, and model of
the Subject Vehicle with complaints similar to the alleged defects claimed by Plaintiff.

RFP
No. 10
This request for production demands
“[a] copy of any photographs or videos of the SUBJECT VEHICLE.” Defendant has
states that it is unaware of any responsive photographs or videos but that its
investigation and discovery is continuing. Insofar as Defendant’s investigation
leads to the discovery of such photographs and videos, the motion to compel
production is GRANTED and Defendant is ordered to produce them. 
Sanctions
Defendant failed to respond to
Plaintiff’s multiple attempts to meet and confer and to schedule the deposition
for a mutually agreeable date. The Court imposes sanctions against Defendant in
the amount of $1800, consisting of 3 hours at an hourly rate of $475 and 1 hour
at the rate of $375. Sanctions are to be paid within 20 days. 
III.       
CONCLUSION
Plaintiff’s motion to compel is
GRANTED. Defendant is ordered to produce a PMK within the next 20 days.
Sanctions are to be paid within 20 days. 
 
Dated
this 30th
day of October, 2024
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 