  Case Number:  21STCV02558    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  29 Motions to Enforce Settlement filed by Plaintiffs Micaela
Delgado Calderon and Maria Elena Osorio Montes.
 
Tentative
The motion to enforce the settlement is
denied as moot.
The request for sanctions is denied.
Background
On January 21, 2021, Micaela
Delgado Calderon and Maria Elena Osorio Montes (collectively “Plaintiffs”)
filed a complaint against Southland Transit Inc., Joseph Dunn, and City of La
Puente (collectively “Defendants”) for a motor vehicle negligence cause of
action arising out of an automobile accident occurring on June 5, 2020.
Defendants filed their answer on June 11, 2021.
 
On December 28,
2023, a notice of settlement was filed with the Court.
 
On April 24,
2024, Plaintiffs filed this motion to enforce settlement. Defendants filed an
opposition on May 10, 2024. Plaintiffs filed a reply on May 14.
 
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6
provides that “[i]f parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing
signed by the parties outside the presence of the court or orally before the
court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may
enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 664.6.)  In ruling on a motion to enter judgment, the
court acts as a trier of fact.  The court
must determine whether the parties entered into a valid and binding
settlement.  To do so, the court may
receive oral testimony in addition to declarations.  (Kohn v. Jaymar-Ruby, Inc. (1994) 23
Cal.App.4th 1530, 1533.)
Discussion
It appears from the Court’s review of the evidence
in the record and the arguments of counsel that although there was some delay
in the process, the settlement agreement has now been signed and the payments
have been made.  Accordingly, the motion
to enforce the settlement is denied as moot.
The Court denies the request for
sanctions.  On this record, it does not
appear that the delays were the result of bad faith or improper conduct.  Moreover, under Code of Civil Procedure
section 128.5, “A motion for
sanctions under this section shall be made separately from other motions or
requests and shall describe the specific alleged action or tactic, made in bad
faith, that is frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.” (Code
of Civil Procedure § 128.5(f)(1)(A).) This request for sanctions was brought
with the motion to enforce settlement, and as such, is improper.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES AS MOOT the motion to enforce
the settlement agreement.
The Court DENIES the request for sanctions. 
Moving Party is
ORDERED to give notice.
 