 Case Number:  22STCV23336    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to Set Aside Dismissal filed by Plaintiff Isabel
Gonzalez.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On July 19, 2022, Isabel Gonzalez
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Letica Ramona Armenta (“Defendant”) for
general negligence and motor vehicle negligence causes of action arising out of
a bicycle versus automobile accident occurring on July 20, 2020. No answer has
been filed in this matter.
On March 15, 2024, a request for dismissal
was filed with the court. The matter was dismissed on March 18, 2024.
On April 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion
to set aside the dismissal. No opposition has been filed.
Legal Standard
“The court may, upon any terms as may be
just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application for this
relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed
to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted, and shall
be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment,
dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken…” (Code Civ. Pro., §473, subd. (b).) 
To qualify for relief under section 473,
the moving party must act diligently in seeking relief and must submit
affidavits or testimony demonstrating a reasonable cause for the
default. (Elston v. City of Turlock (1985) 38 Cal.3d 227, 234.) 
“In a motion under section 473 the initial
burden is on the moving party to prove excusable neglect by a “preponderance of
the evidence. [Citations]”” (Kendall v. Barker (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d
619, 624.) “The moving party has a double burden: He must show a satisfactory
excuse for his default, and he must show diligence in making the motion after
discovery of the default.” (Id. at 625.)
Discussion
Plaintiff’s counsel
Jaime G. Farias states that he represented multiple clients under the names
Isabel Gonzalez, Isabel Maria Gonzalez, Leticia Maurico Gonzalez, and Ivan
Gonzalez, and that through inadvertent error filed a request for dismissal in
this matter for a case that was settled for a similarly named client. (Faris
Decl., ¶¶ 7, 8.)
 
The Court finds
Plaintiff has established the dismissal occurred due to counsel’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect due to the multiple clients with similar
names and filing a dismissal for the wrong client.
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s motion to set aside the dismissal is
GRANTED.   
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff’s motion to set aside the dismissal is GRANTED.
 
The Court sets an OSC re entry of default or,
alternatively, a Trial Setting Conference, in approximately 30-45 days.
 
Moving party to give notice.