 Case Number:  22STCV21668    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Leave to Intervene filed by Interested Party Liberty
Mutual Insurance Company.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On July 5, 2022, Plaintiff
Jose Munoz (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Pasy Wang, Rolan Hernandez,
Pasy Wang, Trustee of the PR Trust, Rolan Hernandez, Trustee of the PR Trust,
and Does 1 to 10 for (1) Strict Liability Civil Code section 3342, (2) Strict
Liability Common Law, (3) Negligence, and (4) Fraudulent Transfer of Assets
stemming from a dog bite incident. 
On February 13, 2024, Liberty Mutual
Insurance Company (“Intervening Party”) filed this motion for leave to intervene.
No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal
Standard
 
“An intervention takes place when a¿nonparty,
deemed an intervenor, becomes¿a party to an action or proceeding between other
persons” and joins a plaintiff in seeking relief, unites with a defendant in
resisting the claims of a plaintiff, or demands relief adverse to both a
plaintiff and a defendant.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 387, subd. (b).)
Subdivision (d) of Code of Civil Procedure
section 387 provides as follows:
(1) “The court
shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or
proceeding if either of the following conditions is satisfied: 
(A) A provision of
law confers an unconditional right to intervene. 
(B) The person
seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or transaction
that is the subject of the action and that person is so situated that the
disposition of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability to protect
that interest, unless the person’s interest is adequately represented by one or
more of the existing parties.
(2) The court may,
upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or
proceeding if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the
success of either of the parties, or an interest against both.”
“It is well settled that the intervener's interest
in the matter in litigation must be direct, not consequential, and that it must
be an interest which is proper to be determined in the action in which
intervention is sought.”¿(Simpson Redwood Co. v. State of California¿(1987)¿196
Cal.App.3d 1192, 1199-1200.)  “Whether
the intervener’s interest is sufficiently direct must be decided on the facts
of each case.”  (Id. at p. 1200.)  “[S]ection 387 should be liberally construed
in favor of intervention.”¿ (Ibid.)¿
 
Discussion
 
Intervening
Party contends that under Labor Code section 3852, 3853 and 3856, an employer
may join as a party plaintiff to recover workers’ compensation benefits paid to
the injured employee. Further, a workers’ compensation insurance carrier may
enforce subrogation rights in its own name under Insurance Code section 11662.
 
Here, Plaintiff
filed a workers’ compensation claim, and Intervening Party has made payments of
$84,000 to Plaintiff from the July 9, 2020 incident. (Motion, 3:11, 25.) The
Court finds Intervening Party has shown that it has a valid basis to intervene to
assert claims for subrogation as to the workers’ compensation benefits paid.
 
Therefore, Intervening
Party’s motion is GRANTED.
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, Liberty
Mutual Insurance Company’s motion for leave to intervene is GRANTED. 
 
Liberty
Mutual Insurance Company is ordered to file the proposed¿complaint-in-intervention attached to
the motion as required under Code of Civil Procedure section 387, subdivision
(e) with the Court within 10 days of this order.¿¿
 
Moving
Party is to give notice.