 Case Number:  22STCV26628    Hearing Date:   May 21, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint filed by Plaintiff Patricia
Parsons.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On August 17, 2022, Patricia Parsons
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against City of Los Angeles (“City”) and Does 1
through 50 for damages based on a dangerous condition of public property
arising out of a fall on January 19, 2022 on uneven concrete on a sidewalk at
or near 8601 Balboa Boulevard in Los Angeles.
On December 9, 2022, City filed its answer to
the complaint and a cross-complaint against Roes 1 through 20. On October 19,
2023, City amended the cross-complaint to name 8601 Balboa LLC (“Balboa”) as
Roe 1.
On February 1, 2024, Plaintiff amended her
complaint to name Balboa as Doe 1.
Also on February 1, 2024, Balboa filed its
answer to the cross-complaint and its own cross-complaint against City and Roes
1 through 50.
On April 16, 2024, City filed its answer to
Balboa’s cross-complaint.
On May 6, 2024, the Court denied Balboa’s motion
to contest the good faith of a settlement between Plaintiff and City.  The Court determined that the settlement is
in good faith under Code of Civil Procedure section 877.6.
As is relevant to the matter on calendar for May
20, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to file an amended complaint on
March 21, 2024.  Balboa filed an
opposition on May 8, and Plaintiff filed a reply on May 13.
Legal
Standard
 
CCP §
472(a) provides “[a] party may amend its pleading once without leave of the
court at any time before the answer, demurrer, or motion to strike is filed, or
after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed but before the demurrer or motion
to strike is heard if the amended pleading is filed and served no later than
the date for filing an opposition to the demurrer or motion to strike.”
 
CCP §
473(a)(1) provides, in relevant part: 
“The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be
proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking
out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party,
or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time
for answer or demurrer.  The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”  
 
“This
discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial
policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”  (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) 
Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of the proposed
amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer
or motion to strike are premature.  The
court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed
amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the
defect cannot be cured by further amendment. 
(See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985)
173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281, overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American
Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.) 
 
Under
CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of
the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located;
and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.  
 
Under
CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must
specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and
proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.  
 
Even if
a good amendment is proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused
delay in presenting it may be a good reason for denial.  In most cases, the factors for timeliness
are: (1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the
amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the
adverse party.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists
where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of
critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden of
discovery.  (Magpali v. Farmers Group,
Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.) 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff
seeks leave to file an amended complaint that adds a negligence cause of action
against Balboa.  Plaintiff contends there
is good cause for leave to amend the complaint as she was unaware of causes of
action against Doe defendants when filing the complaint, and through discovery;
added Balboa to the case; and now needs to add the cause of action for
negligence against Balboa. (Motion, 9:25-28.)
 
Plaintiff
has satisfied the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, rule
3.1324.
 
Defendant
the claim against it is futile as it is not the owner of the sidewalk. On this
record, the asserted futility of the proposed amendment cannot be adjudicated
at this stage of the proceedings.
 
Defendant
also contends there was a delay in seeking leave to amend. The Court notes,
however, that Defendant was added to this action seven months ago as a
cross-defendant, and added to the complaint in February 2024. The Court does
not find that there has been any unreasonable, undue, or prejudicial delay.
 
The
Court finds Plaintiff has established good cause for leave to amend to add the
negligence cause of action.
 
As such,
the Court GRANTS the motion for leave to amend.
 
Conclusion
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend
is GRANTED. 
 
The
Court GRANTS LEAVE to Plaintiff to file the amended complaint attached to the
pleading within 10 days of the hearing.
 
Moving
Party is to give notice.