  Case Number:  21STCV35846    Hearing Date:   May 8, 2024    Dept:  14 WILZIG v. MONSANTO COMPANY

MOTION FOR
PREFERENCE AND TRIAL SETTING
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Grant motion for trial preference;
set matter for trial within 120 days from the Court’s final order on the motion.
 
DISCUSSION
 
I. Background
 
This is a products liability action filed against Defendant Monsanto
Company, a manufacturer of glyophosphate herbicide, marketed under the brand
name Roundup®. [Complaint, ¶1.] Additionally, as of 2009, Monsanto was allegedly
the world’s leading producer of seeds, accounting for 27% of the world seed
market. [Complaint, ¶2.] The majority of these seeds are the Roundup Ready®
brand. [Id.] The stated advantage of Roundup Ready® crops is allegedly
that they substantially improve a farmer’s ability to control weeds, since
glyphosate can be sprayed in the fields during the growing season without
harming the crops. [Id.]
 
The International Agency for Research on Cancer (“IARC”) has classified
glyphosate as a Group 2A herbicide, which, Plaintiff alleges, is probably
carcinogenic to humans. [Complaint, ¶6.] Plaintiff alleges that he consistently
applied Roundup® and/or other Monsanto glyphosatecontaining products
(“Roundup”) beginning in approximately the early 1980s and continuing up until
1998. [Complaint, ¶17.] Plaintiff alleges that as a result of his exposure to
Roundup® and/or other Monsanto glyphosatecontaining products (“Roundup”) in the
state of California, County of Los Angeles from approximately the early 1980s
to 1998, Plaintiff was diagnosed with non-Hodgkin lymphoma in April 2004. [Complaint,
¶18.] Plaintiff alleges that as a direct and proximate result of Plaintiff’s
use of Roundup® and/or other Monsanto glyphosate-containing products
(“Roundup”), supplied and/or distributed by Defendants, Plaintiff suffered
significant harm, conscious pain and suffering, physical injury and bodily
impairment including, but not limited to non-Hodgkin lymphoma and other
cancers, other permanent physical deficits, permanent bodily impairment and
other injury sequelae. [Complaint, ¶19.] Plaintiff’s injuries required medical
intervention to address the adverse physical effects and damage caused by
Plaintiff’s use of Roundup® and/or other Monsanto glyphosate-containing
products (“Roundup”). [Id.]
 
Plaintiff alleges claims for: 1. Strict Liability – Design Defect; 2.
Strict Liability – Failure to Warn; 3. Negligence; 4. Fraud; 5. Breach of
Express Warranties; 6. Breach of Implied Warranties; 7. Loss of Consortium; and
8. Exemplary and Punitive Damages.
 
Plaintiff has moved for a trial preference pursuant to CCP §36(a).
 
II. Defendant’s Evidentiary
Objections
                        1. Objections to
Declaration of David Wilzig
            1. Wilzig Decl., ¶5: Overruled.
 
            2. Wilzig Decl., ¶6: Overruled.
 
                        2. Objections to
Declaration of Mark P. Robinson
            1. Robinson Decl., ¶3 and Exh. 1
thereto: Overruled.
 
            2. Robinson Decl., ¶4: Overruled.
 
            2. Robinson Decl., ¶5: Overruled.
 
III. Motion for
Trial Preference
                        
Plaintiff moves for preference pursuant to CCP §36(a), or, alternatively,
under CCP §36(e). In support of the motion, Plaintiff has submitted his own
declaration, and the declaration of counsel Robinson.
 
            Plaintiff declares that he was born
June 10, 1942, and is presently 81 years old. [Wilzig Decl., ¶2.] He declares
that in late 2003, he started to have upper respiratory and cold symptoms.
[Wilzig Decl., ¶3.] When his symptoms did not improve, he was referred for a
bone marrow biopsy, which he underwent in March 2004. [Id.] Following
the biopsy in 2004, Plaintiff declares, he was diagnosed with Chronic
Lymphocytic Leukemia. [Id.] He underwent another bone marrow biopsy in
2016 and his doctors revised his diagnosis to splenic marginal zone lymphoma. [Id.]
 
            Plaintiff declares that he has
undergone treatment for cancer since 2004. [Wilzig Decl., ¶4.] With treatment
with Rituxan, Plaintiff declares, he has achieved periods of remission followed
by periods of relapse. [Id.]
 
            Recently, Plaintiff attests, his
doctors informed him that Rituxan was no longer sufficiently treating his
cancer. [Wilzig Decl., ¶5.] His doctors started him on chemotherapy, with the
first cycle of chemotherapy medications (Bendamustine and Obinutuzumab)
administered on January 30. [Id.] Plaintiff declares that his doctors
informed him that he will have cycles of chemotherapy for four months. [Id.]
The chemotherapy treatments, according to Plaintiff, have been extremely hard,
and he declares he has suffered from neuropathy and brain fog. [Id.]
 
            Plaintiff declares that because his
health is deteriorating, he is very concerned that he may not live long enough
to see his trial or be in sufficient health to be able to testify and
participate in his trial. [Wilzig Decl., ¶6.] Mr. Wilzig declares that he
wishes to live long enough to see this case to verdict, but is fearful that his
cancer will not allow that wish to come true. [Wilzig Decl., ¶7.]
 
            In addition to Plaintiff’s
declaration, he has submitted the declaration of counsel Mark Robinson. Mr.
Robinson declares that Plaintiff is 81 years of age and was diagnosed with
chronic lymphocytic leukemia of B-cell type, a form of Non-Hodkin’s Lymphoma,
in 2004. [Robinson Decl. ¶2.] Counsel attests that despite having undergone
treatment for nearly 20 years, Mr. Wilzig continues to suffer from recurrences
of his NHL, and is set to undergo additional rounds of chemotherapy and
radiation treatment, which counsel understands will further deteriorate his
medical condition. [Robinson Decl., ¶3.] He attaches as Exhibit 1 a true and
correct copy of Plaintiff’s medical records.
 
Counsel declares that his understanding, based on information and belief
with respect to his client’s medical diagnosis and prognosis, is that Mr.
Wilzig’s medical condition is deteriorating such that additional chemotherapy
is necessary in order help Plaintiff survive the cancer. [Robinson Decl., ¶4.]
Counsel’s understanding is that Mr. Wilzig recently began undergoing this
chemotherapy treatment. [Id.] 
 
Given Mr. Wilzig’s deteriorating medical condition, counsel believes that
his client may not survive long enough to see the day his case goes to trial,
or he may be in a condition that deprives him from meaningfully participating,
attending, or testifying at trial, which would substantially prejudice his
interest in the litigation. [Robinson Decl., ¶5.]
 
            Preliminarily, there is no dispute
that Plaintiff satisfies the requirement under CCP §36(a) and (a)(1) – namely,
that he is over 70 years of age (he is 81) and that he has a substantial
interest in the litigation as a whole. The issue in connection with the §36(a)(2)
analysis is whether Plaintiff’s health “is such that a preference is necessary
to prevent prejudicing [Plaintiff’s] interest in the litigation.”
 
            Counsel’s declaration can be based
on hearsay and can be based on counsel’s information and belief as to
Plaintiff’s medical diagnosis and prognosis. Counsel’s declaration is based on
such hearsay evidence, is premised on information and belief, and attaches a
medical report dated September 30, 2022. Plaintiff himself attests that he
recently has commenced chemotherapy treatment (the first dose having been
administered this past January), these treatments have been hard, and declares
that he has suffered from neuropathy and brain fog. [Wilzig Decl., ¶5.] Mr.
Robinson himself declares that based on information and belief, Mr. Wilzig’s
condition is deteriorating. [Robinson Decl., ¶¶3, 4.] 
 
            Defendant has opposed the motion,
arguing that Plaintiff fails to provide any information that his health or
cognitive abilities are significantly impaired now or will be in the future.
[Opposition at 1:6-8.] According to Defendant, there is no evidentiary
foundation established for Plaintiff’s beliefs, concerns, and understandings.
Defendant has also submitted the Declaration of Dr. William Fleming, M.D.,
Ph.D., a board-certified and practicing oncologist. Dr. Fleming concludes there
is no evidence that a trial preference is necessary, that there is no reliable
basis for Plaintiffs’ concerns that Plaintiff may not survive if the action
proceeds to trial in ordinary course, or that he will be so impaired that he
cannot meaningfully participate in the case.
 
            In Fox v. Superior Court (2018)
21 Cal.App.5th 529, the Court of Appeal reversed a trial court’s
denial of a CCP §36(a) preference motion. The plaintiff (Ms. Fox) had sued a
group of defendants, alleging personal injuries as a result of asbestos
exposure. She sought preference under §36(a), on grounds that she suffered from
Stage IV lung cancer and related ailments. The plaintiff had submitted, inter
alia, a declaration from her counsel, reporting that not only had the cancer
metastasized to the plaintiff’s demur, clavicle, and spine, but that she also
suffered from asbestosis, asbestos-related pleural disease, severe coronary
artery disease, and anemia. Fox  at 532. The court also recounted that the
plaintiff received chemotherapy treatments every three weeks, was responding to
the chemotherapy, and was in partial remission, but that she experienced severe
side effects (including “chemo brain” or fogginess in the thought process). 
 
            Two defendants, including defendant
Metalclad, opposed the motion, and the court granted the motion. The Court of
Appeal, in reversing, determined that the trial court conflated the more
rigorous evidentiary requirement of CCP §36(d) with the more relaxed
requirement of CCP §36(a). The Fox court reiterated the requirement
under subdivision (a) that “a showing that the party’s ‘health…is such that a
preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing [her] interest in the
litigation.’” Fox at 534 (citing CCP §36(a)).
 
The Fox court stated:
 
Metalclad purports to dispute
the extent of Ms. Fox's health problems and claims the trial court was entitled
to assess the “veracity” of her declarations. And in making
that assessment, we are told, the absence of more medical details, including
some indication of her “life expectancy,” was relevant. If by way of opposition
Metalclad had submitted, say, a photograph of 81-year-old Ms. Fox scuba-diving
in the Galapagos Islands just last fall, there might be some basis to expect
more medical detail, but on this record we see no genuine dispute that Ms. Fox
is very sick. It is uncontroverted she suffers from stage IV lung cancer and severe coronary artery disease, among other ailments. She is undergoing
chemotherapy treatments, but is in constant discomfort and has difficulty
performing basic life functions. And critically, her mental state has
deteriorated to a point where she becomes confused and forgetful. All told, the
evidence shows that while Ms. Fox is currently able to participate in a trial,
she has good reason for concern that will not be the case for much longer as
her health deteriorates. In the face of this uncontroverted showing, we think
it was error to deny her preference on the trial calendar. We see no basis for the
ruling here other than the mistaken interpretation of section 36, subdivision (a) urged by Metalclad.
 
Beyond the proof the Foxes
offered, we are hard pressed to see what more they would need to present to
justify entitlement to calendar preference under subdivision (a). For those in
Ms. Fox's unfortunate situation, the end may come quickly with little warning;
years may pass with gradual, relentless decline before the battle is lost; or,
happily, there may be sustained remission after episodic periods of improvement
and relapse. Anyone who has ever heard a physician say in these circumstances,
“we just can't predict with any certainty,” will appreciate that indeterminacy
is not only inherent in the situation, but is part of the challenge of dealing
with it. We therefore agree that, on this record, the absence of more
specifics about Ms. Fox's prognosis was insufficient reason to deny the Foxes’
request for calendar preference. Metalclad's position to the contrary, in
our view, grafts the more stringent standard of subdivision (d) onto
subdivision (a) in derogation of the text and structure of the statute. Fox,
supra, 21 Cal.App.5th at 535-536 (emphasis added).
 
            Here too, the standard under which
Plaintiff moves for preference is the more relaxed standard of CCP §36(a) – not
the more stringent standard of CCP §36(d). As in Fox, Plaintiff here has
recently started chemotherapy treatments, and these treatments are expected to
last another month. Plaintiff declares he has experienced “brain fog”, and
under a fair reading of Plaintiff’s declaration at ¶5, the brain fog was due to
the chemotherapy. Both plaintiff and his counsel declare that his health is
deteriorating. This evidence is not entirely specific, but, as Fox and
the authorities above make clear, it need not be in order to grant preference.
The Court is satisfied that the relaxed standards for preference under CCP
§36(a) are satisfied, and the motion is granted under this section.
 
            Alternatively, Plaintiff moves for
preference pursuant to CCP §36(e). This section provides: 
 
(e) Notwithstanding any other
provision of law, the court may in its discretion grant a motion for
preference that is supported by
a showing that satisfies
the court that the interests of justice will be served by granting this
preference.
 
            Given the Court’s finding that
preference is warranted under CCP §36(a), the Court need not address the
alternative grounds for preference under CCP §36(e).