 Case Number:  23STCV12448    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      April 4, 2024                                  TRIAL DATE:   August 16, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Richard Sweet, et al. v. Archibuildz, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV12448
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs
Richard Sweet, et al.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          FACTUAL AND
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
 
            On January 8, 2024, Plaintiffs Richard Sweet, Lori Sweet, individually
and as Co-Trustees of the Sweet Living Trust, filed this motion to compel Defendant
Archibuildz, LLC to provide responses to Plaintiffs’ Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One.  Plaintiffs seek
sanctions against Defendant.
 
The motion is unopposed.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
 
If
a party to whom inspection demands are directed fails to serve a timely
response, the propounding party may move for an order to compel responses
without objections.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b).) A party
moving to compel discovery responses under this statutory provision is not
required to meet and confer prior to filing the
motion.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (b); see also Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 411 (Sinaiko) (citing Leach v. Superior Court (1980)
111 Cal.App.3d 902, 906 for the proposition that “meet and confer” requirement
“did not apply when propounding party sought order compelling responses to
interrogatories and sanctions for responding party's failure to respond ‘within
the statutorily permitted time’”).)   
Monetary Sanctions¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.030 is a general statute authorizing the Court to impose discovery
sanctions for “misuse of the discovery process,” which includes (without
limitation) a variety of conduct such as: making, without substantial justification,
an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive response to
discovery; and unsuccessfully and without substantial justification making or
opposing a motion to compel or limit discovery.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.010.)¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿If sanctions are sought, Code of
Civil Procedure section 2023.040 requires that the notice specify the identity
of the person against whom sanctions are sought and the type of sanction
requested, that the motion be supported in the points and authorities, and the
facts be set forth in a declaration supporting the amount of any monetary
sanction.¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿If the court finds that a party
has unsuccessfully made or opposed a motion to compel responses to
interrogatories or inspection demands, the court “shall impose a monetary
sanction . . . unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (c), 2031.310, subd. (h).)¿¿¿¿ 
III.      DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiffs properly served the production requests on
October 17, 2023.  However, despite
asking and receiving an extension to provide responses, to date, Defendant has
not served verified responses to the at-issue discovery.  Defendant has therefore waived all objections
to the production requests.  Plaintiffs
are entitled to an order compelling Defendant’s responses.
 
Monetary Sanctions
 
Plaintiffs request sanctions against Defendant.  Given that the court has granted this motion,
sanctions are warranted.  Accordingly,
sanctions are imposed against Defendant in the sum of $675, consisting of one
and a half hours at plaintiffs’ counsel’s hourly rate.
 
 IV.
      CONCLUSION
            
The motion is GRANTED. 
Defendant is ordered to provide objection-free, verified responses to Plaintiffs’
Requests for Production of Documents, Set One.
 
Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions is GRANTED.  Defendant is ordered to pay sanctions in the
sum of $675 to Plaintiffs, by and through their counsel.
 
Discovery responses are to be provided, and sanctions are to
be paid within 30 days of this order. 
 
Plaintiffs to give notice.
 
Dated:   April 4, 2024                          




¿ 


¿¿¿ 




¿ 


¿ Kerry Bensinger¿¿ 
¿ Judge of the Superior Court¿ 




 