  Case Number:  22STCV13136    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April
4, 2024                                                  TRIAL DATE:  Not set
                                                           
CASE:                         Nancy Cardenas, Individually and as Representative to the Estate of
Maura Cardozo v. County of Los Angeles
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV13136
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITHOUT MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
County of Los Angeles
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Nancy
Cardenas
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            On April 19,
2022, Plaintiff Nancy Cardenas (“Plaintiff” or “Cardenas”), individually and as
representative to the Estate of Maura Cardozo (“Decedent” or “Cardozo”) filed this
wrongful death action against Defendant County of Los Angeles (“Defendant” or
“County”).  On August 21, 2023, Plaintiff
filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleging causes of action
for: 
 
1.     
Neglect (Dependent Adult)
2.     
Negligence
3.     
Wrongful Death 
4.     
Survival Action.
 
            As alleged
in the FAC, Cardenas and Maura were sisters. 
Maura was a dependent adult with Down Syndrome.  On July 24, 2021, Maura died after being
severely neglected by her father, Cruz Cardozo (“Cardozo”).  In January 2021, Cardenas made the first of several
reports of neglect to the County’s Adult Protective Services (“APS”).  APS ignored the reports.  During that time, and up until her death,
Cardenas and Ms. Hall, Maura’s distance learning teacher, noticed
uncharacteristic behavior from Maura and physical signs of neglect.  Cardozo’s behavior was also suspicious.  Cardozo elected to continue distance learning
from Maura rather than send her to in-person learning once the option became
available.  Cardozo also elected to
terminate Maura’s respite care and drove Maura’s in-home support services
(IHSS) staff to quit over his abusive behavior. 
On July 14, 2021, Maura was rushed to the hospital.  Maura had no cognitive function and was
placed on a ventilator.  Cardozo showed
up to the hospital drunk.  Medical staff
reported the incident as suspicious circumstances.  Ten days later, Maura was declared dead.  Cardozo is currently under investigation in
connection to Maura’s death.
 
            On November
29, 2023, the County filed this Demurrer to each cause of action in the FAC.
 
            Cardenas
filed an opposition.  The County replied.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD FOR DEMURRER
            A demurrer
tests the legal sufficiency of the pleadings and will be sustained only where
the pleading is defective on its face.¿ (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.)¿
“We treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.¿ We accept the factual
allegations of the complaint as true and also consider matters which may be
judicially noticed.¿ [Citation.]”¿ (Mitchell v. California Department of
Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v.
Structural Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged
in the pleading are deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].)
Allegations are to be liberally construed.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)¿ In
construing the allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual
allegations that may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory
allegations.¿ (Financial Corporation of America v. Wilburn (1987) 189
Cal.App.3d 764, 769.)¿¿If the cause of action is based
in statute, the facts supporting each statutory requirement must be
specifically pled. (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214
Cal.App.3d 590, 604.)
            A demurrer
may be brought if insufficient facts are stated to support the cause of action
asserted.¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)  “A demurrer for uncertainty is strictly
construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because
ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.”¿(Khoury v.
Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿¿ 
            Where the
complaint contains substantial factual allegations sufficiently apprising
defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for uncertainty
will be overruled or plaintiff will be given leave to amend.¿ (Williams v.
Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)¿ Leave to
amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment.¿ (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿ The burden
is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended
successfully. (Ibid.)¿
III.       DISCUSSION
 
            Meet and Confer
 
            “Before filing a demurrer pursuant
to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person, by
telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)¿ Defense counsel has complied with the meet
and confer requirement.  (See Declaration
of Margaret Byrne Ikeda, ¶¶ 4-6.)
 
            Analysis
 
The County demurs
to the FAC on the grounds that (1) Cardenas does not have standing to bring
this action and (2) each cause of action is insufficiently pleaded.  Because the court concludes Cardenas does not
have standing (at this time), the court does not address the County’s remaining
arguments.
 
Cardenas Does Not
Having Standing

 
The FAC alleges
that Cardenas “has petitioned the Probate Court to be appointed Representative
of the Estate of Maura Cardozo as the criminal investigation into Cardozo is
ongoing.”  (FAC, ¶¶ 76, 82.)  This allegation demonstrates that Cardenas
does not have standing to maintain any cause of action.
 
For example,
Cardenas cannot maintain the First Cause of Action for Neglect (Dependent
Adult) or her Second Cause of Action for Negligence because she is not Decedent’s
personal representative, successor in interest, or an interested person as
defined by the Probate Code.
 
“Welfare and
Institutions Code section 15657.3, subdivision (d), delineates who has standing
to bring an elder abuse lawsuit after the death of an elder or dependent
adult.”  (Estate of Lowrie (2004)
118 Cal.App.4th 220, 227.)  Welfare and
Institutions Code section 15657.3, subdivision (d) provides that upon petition,
“after the death of the elder or dependent adult, the right to maintain an
action shall pass to the personal representative of the decedent,” or if none,
to an intestate heir whose interest is affected by the action, the decedent’s
successor in interest, or an interested person, if the requirements of
Section 377.32 of the Code of Civil Procedure are met.  Section 377.32 of the Code of Civil
Procedure requires that a person who seeks to commence or continue a pending
action or proceeding as the decedent’s successor in interest must execute and
file an affidavit or declaration under penalty of perjury.  
 
Here, the FAC
indicates only that Cardenas has petitioned to be appointed representative of
Decedent’s Estate.  (See FAC, ¶¶ 76,
82.)  Cardenas is therefore not currently
Decedent’s personal representative.  Additionally,
Cardenas has not established she is Decedent’s successor in interest.  Cardenas has not filed an affidavit or
declaration under a penalty of perjury pursuant to Section 377.32 of
the Code of Civil Procedure.  Cardenas is
not an interested person as defined by Probate Code section 48.  
 
            Cardenas’s Third Cause of Action for
Wrongful Death and Fourth Cause of Action for Survival Action also suffer from
the same or similar defects.  
 
Section 377.60 of
the Code of Civil Procedure requires that a wrongful death action may be
asserted by a decedent’s personal representative, or a list of enumerated
individuals.  As discussed above,
Cardenas has not been appointed as Decedent’s personal representative.  Further, Cardenas does not fall into any
class of individuals enumerated under section 377.60 that would permit Cardenas
to maintain a wrongful death claim.[1]
 
Section 377.30 of
the Code of Civil Procedure similarly requires that a survival action may be commenced
by the decedent’s personal representative, or if there is not personal
representative, by the decedent’s successor in interest.  As discussed above, Cardenas is neither
Decedent’s personal representative nor successor in interest.   
 
As alleged,
Cardenas cannot presently maintain this action. 
The possibility that Cardenas may be appointed as the personal
representative of Decedent’s Estate in the future is insufficient.  
 
V.          CONCLUSION
            
The demurrer is sustained.  Leave to amend is GRANTED.
 
If and/or when the Probate Court appoints Cardenas as
Decedent’s personal representative, Cardenas may at that time serve and file
her Second Amended Complaint.  The court
will discuss with counsel various other concerns regarding the current version
of the complaint
 
Defendant to give notice. 

 
Dated:   April 4, 2024                                 




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            


