  Case Number:  22SMCV00128    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendant Danyel Benhaghnazar and Stella Yaghoubzadeh’s Motion to Set Aside and Vacate this Court’s Ruling(s) of April 29, 2024 is DENIED.Plaintiff Jonathan Shapiro to give notice.REASONINGDefendants Danyel Benhaghnazar and Stella Yaghoubzadeh (“Defendants”) move the Court for an order setting aside the judgment entered in Plaintiff Jonathan Shapiro (“Plaintiff”)’s favor after a non-jury trial on April 29, 2024. The Court notes that the motion is said to be filed only by Defendant Danyel Benhaghnazar, but the supplemental declaration is said to be filed by both Defendants. The Court assumes that this motion was brought on behalf of both Defendants.Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (b), provides that “[t]he court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.” “In order to qualify for discretionary relief under section 473, the moving party must act diligently in seeking relief and must submit affidavits or testimony demonstrating a reasonable cause for the default.” (Huh v. Wang (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 1406, 1419, brackets omitted.)Defendant Benhaghnazar states that he was unable to attend the scheduled hearing on April 29, 2024 due to a medical appointment, the call was disconnected on that date, and the trial then proceeded in his absence after he made several attempts to reestablish contact. Benhaghnazar argues that the medical records substantiate ongoing severe health issues, such that it was excusable neglect that he did not appear. In the supplemental filing, Defendants ask the Court to correct the record because it is confusing.Put simply, the Court lacks a basis to conclude that relief is warranted here. First, there is no explanation in the motion as to the nonappearance of Defendant Stella Yaghoubzadeh, such that there is no basis to conclude relief is proper. Second, insofar as Defendants contend the record is confusing, the Court has issued minute orders to make the record as clear as possible. Notably, the April 29, 2024 minute order after the non-jury trial addresses each of Benhaghnazar’s arguments here, such that the Court need not address each contention again. In short, the April 29, 2024 order notes that Benhaghnazar appeared on that date, but he disconnected from the teleconference call, and he did not reconnect despite advisements from the Court that he needed to appear. The Court also addressed the medical records provided by Benhaghnazar and found there was no basis to continue the trial because he had failed to provide admissible and reliable evidence to warrant a continuance. The Court had given Defendants ample opportunity to litigate this case on the merits, and Defendants failed to do so. Accordingly, Defendant Danyel Benhaghnazar and Stella Yaghoubzadeh’s Motion to Set Aside and Vacate this Court’s Ruling(s) of April 29, 2024 is DENIED.