

Hearing Date:             May 3,
2024
Case Name:                Phillips.
v. Innes Heights LP  
Case No.:                    23STCV30926
Motion:                       Demurrer

Moving Party:             Defendant Innes Heights LP

Opposing Party:          Plaintiffs
Latisha Phillips, Lonella Ballard, Ishmael Ballard, Isaish Ballard, Isaac
Ballard

Tentative Ruling:      The
Demurrer to the Complaint is overruled to the first, second, third fourth, seventh,
and eighth causes of action, and is sustained as to the fifth and sixth causes
of action.

             
             This is a landlord-tenant habitability
case. The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1.) breach of implied
warranty of habitability; (2.) breach of statutory
warranty of habitability; (3.) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment; (4.) negligence,
(5.) violation of Civil Code section 1942.4; (6.) private nuisance; (7.)
violation of tenant anti-harassment ordinance; and (8.) violation of unfair
competition law. 
 
Defendant Innes Heights LP demurs to the entire
Complaint. Plaintiff opposes the demurrer.
 
The
demurrer is overruled in part and sustained in part. 
 
Demurrer
 
            A
demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from
either the face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take
judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v.
Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of a demurrer is to
challenge the sufficiency of a pleading “by raising questions of law.” (Postley
v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280, 286.) “In the construction of a
pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be
liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 452.) The court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all
material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law . . ..” ’ ” (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518,
525.)  
 
Analysis 
 
            As
a preliminary matter, in its demurrer, Defendant argues that the Complaint fails
to allege whether the lease agreement was written or oral and fails to state
the specific terms of the agreement. However, Defendant has not identified any
cause of action that requires specifically pleading these allegations. Plaintiff
has not alleged a breach of contract. Thus, this argument is irrelevant.
 
 
First Cause of Action for Breach of
Implied Warranty of Habitability 
 
            “The
elements of [a breach of implied warranty of habitability] claim are the
existence of a material defective condition affecting the premises’
habitability, notice to the landlord of the condition within a reasonable time
after the tenant’s discovery of the condition, the landlord was given a
reasonable time to correct the deficiency, and resulting damages. [Citation.]”
(Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing, LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1297.)
 
The demurrer
to this cause of action argues that the Complaint fails to allege that Plaintiff’s
unit substantially lacked any of the characteristics found in Civil Code
1941.1. Specifically, Defendant argues that because a landlord is not required
to keep the unit “perfect” (Green v. Superior Court of San Francisco
(1974) 10 Cal.3d 616, 637 [“The implied warranty of habitability does not
require that a landlord ensure that the premises were in perfect, aesthetically
pleasing condition.”]), the Complaint’s reliance on the allegations that the
unit was “defective” are inadequate and renders the claim uncertain and ambiguous.

 
            This
argument is not well taken. The Complaint alleges numerous specific factual deficiencies,
including but not limited to “rodent infestation and rodent harborages,” “cockroaches,
flea, mite, bedbug or another vermin infestation” and the existence of defective
“smoke detectors, automatic sprinkler systems, and standpipe systems.” (Compl.,
¶ 9.) Without question, if true, the conditions as alleged would affect the
habitability of the apartment and constitute a violation of Civil Code section
1941.1; a violation of that section or another “statutory housing standard that
affects health and safety is a strong indication of a materially defective
condition.” (Peviani v. Arbors at California Oaks Property Owner, LLC
(2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 874, 891.)
            Thus,
the demurrer to the first cause of action is overruled. 
Second Cause of Action for Breach of
Statutory Warranty of Habitability 
 
The
demurrer repeats the arguments made with respect to the first cause of action. (Dem.,
7:22-8:8.) Thus, the demurrer to this cause of action fails for the same
reasons as the first cause of action. 
Defendant also suggests
that Plaintiff fails to note when the alleged deficiencies occurred and suggests
that the claim may run afoul of the four years statute of limitations for a
written contract or two years statute of limitations for an oral contract. However,
as noted above, Plaintiff has not alleged a breach of contract claim and Defendant
cites no legal authority that Code of Civil Procedure sections 337 and 339, subdivision
(1) should apply to this claim. Moreover, a demurrer is not well taken where the
statute of limitations defect does not appear on the face of the pleadings. As
the demurrer concedes, Plaintiff has not alleged when the deficiencies
occurred.[1]
(Committee For Green Foothills v. Santa Clara County Bd. of Supervisors
(2010) 48 Cal.4th 32, 42 [It is proper to sustain a demurrer to a claim that is
“clearly and affirmatively” time-barred “on the face of the complaint”].)
The
demurrer to the second cause of action is overruled. 
 
Third Cause of Action for Breach of the
Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment 
            The
covenant of quiet enjoyment arises impliedly between a landlord and tenant and
affords the tenant quiet enjoyment and possession of the premises. (Andrews
v. Mobile Aire Estates (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578, 588; Nativi v.
Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 261, 291–292.) “The
covenant of quiet enjoyment ‘insulates the tenant against any act or omission
on the part of the landlord, or anyone claiming under him, which interferes
with a tenant’s right to use and enjoy the premises for the purpose
contemplated by the tenancy.’” (Ibid.) The covenant is partially
codified in Civil Code section 1927. 
Conduct that violates
the covenant includes using or threatening to use “force, willful threats, or
menacing conduct constituting a conduct that interferes with the tenant’s quiet
enjoyment of the premises in violation of Section 1927 that would create an
apprehension of harm in a reasonable person.” (Civ. Code, § 1940.2, italics
added.) “Minor inconveniences and annoyances are not actionable breaches of the
implied covenant of quiet enjoyment. To be actionable, the landlord’s act or
omission must substantially interfere with a tenant’s right to use and enjoy
the premises for the purposes contemplated by the tenancy.” (Andrews v.
Mobile Aire Estates, supra, 125 Cal.App.4th at p. 589.) 
            As
noted in the causes of action above, the factual allegations in the Complaint demonstrate
a substantial interference with Plaintiffs’ right to use and enjoy the premises;
as such, the Complaint sufficiently alleges facts to state a claim for breach
of quiet enjoyment. (Compl., ¶ 9.) 
 
            The
demurrer to the quiet enjoyment cause of action is overruled. 
 
Fourth Cause of Action for Negligence 
 
            The elements for negligence
are: (1) a legal duty owed to the plaintiff to use due care; (2) breach of
duty; (3) causation; and (4) damage to the plaintiff. (County of Santa Clara
v. Atlantic Richfield Co.¿(2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318.) “A landlord
owes a duty of care to a tenant to provide and maintain safe conditions on the
leased premises.” (Portillo v. Aiassa (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1134.)

 
Although
the notice in the demurrer specifically demurs to this cause of action, the demurrer
itself does not make any specific arguments challenging the allegations to this
cause of action. Thus, to the extent that Defendant demurs to the fourth cause
of action, the demurrer is overruled. 
 
Fifth Cause of Action for Violation of
Civil Code Section 1942.4 
 
Section
1942.4 prohibits a landlord from demanding rent, collecting rent, issuing a
notice of a rent increase, or issuing a three-day pay rent or quit if all of
the following conditions exist prior to the landlord’s demand or notice: 
 
(1) The dwelling substantially lacks any of
the affirmative standard characteristics listed in Section 1941.1 or violates
Section 17920.10 of the Health and Safety Code, or is deemed and declared
substandard as set forth in Section 17920.3 of the Health and Safety Code
because conditions listed in that section exist to an extent that endangers the
life, limb, health, property, safety, or welfare of the public or the occupants
of the dwelling.  
(2) A public officer or employee who is
responsible for the enforcement of any housing law, after inspecting the
premises, has notified the landlord or the landlord’s agent in writing of his
or her obligations to abate the nuisance or repair the substandard
conditions  
(3) The conditions have existed and have
not been abated 35 days beyond the date of service of the notice specified in
paragraph (2) and the delay is without good cause. For purposes of this
subdivision, service shall be complete at the time of deposit in the United
States mail.  
(4) The conditions were not caused by an
act or omission of the tenant or lessee in violation of Section 1929 or 1941.2. 
 
Here, the
Complaint alleges Defendant violated Civil Code section 1942.4 by not
correcting conditions cited by government housing enforcement agencies within
35 days of issuance of the citation, including but not limited to, the
following: a. A Courtesy Notice to Abate for Complaint No. CO0236998 issued by
the County of Los Angeles Department of Public Health on December 12, 2020. b.
A Notice and Order to Comply for Case No. 784231 issued by the Los Angeles
Housing and Community Investment Department on August 30, 2021. (Compl., ¶ 31.)

 
            The
demurrer contends that “the Complaint is silent as to the nature of the
condition, and more importantly, that these conditions related to plaintiffs’
rented unit or a common area.” (Dem., 9:11-13.)
 
The
demurrer is well taken; the Complaint does not attach these notices or
otherwise allege facts that the subject notices pertained to Plaintiffs’ unit
or shared common areas. As such, Plaintiffs have not pled facts sufficient to
show a statutory violation. 
 
Thus, the
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
Sixth Cause of Action for Private
Nuisance 
 
            The
demurrer contends that Plaintiffs’ nuisance cause of action is “merely a clone”
of the other causes of action, specifically the negligence cause of action. 
 
The elements of an action for private
nuisance are: (1) the plaintiff must prove an interference with his use and
enjoyment of its property; (2) the invasion of the plaintiff's interest in the
use and enjoyment of the land must be substantial, i.e., it caused the
plaintiff to suffer substantial actual damage; and (3) the interference with
the protected interest must not only be substantial, it must also be
unreasonable, i.e., it must be of such a nature, duration, or amount as to
constitute unreasonable interference with the use and enjoyment of the land. (Today's
IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022)
83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1176.)
In El Escorial Owners’ Assn. v. DLC Plastering, Inc. (2007) 154 Cal.App.4th 1337,
the court held that a nuisance claim for toxic mold contamination
could not exist separate from the plaintiff's negligence claim. (Id. at p. 1348.)
The court explained that the definition of nuisance is “so broad
that it could be “ ‘applied indiscriminately to everything.” ’ ” (Id. at p. 1348
[quoting City of San Diego v. U.S. Gypsum Co. (1995) 30
Cal.App.4th 575, 585].) The court explained that permitting traditional torts
to be litigated as nuisance claims “would allow
nuisance to “ ‘become a monster that would devour in one gulp
the entire law of tort.” ’ ” (El Escorial, at p. 1348.)
In El Escorial, the “factual allegations
incorporated into the nuisance cause of action
involved negligence and defective workmanship.” The court
concluded that, “[w]here negligence and nuisance causes of action rely on the
same facts about lack of due care, the nuisance claim is
a negligence claim.” (El Escorial, supra, 154
Cal.App.4th at p. 1349; see Melton v. Boustred (2010)
183 Cal.App.4th 521, 542–543 [nuisance claim failed
with negligence claim where the nuisance claim relied on
the same facts].)
            The importance of
preventing the broad label of “nuisance” from swallowing the elements of
a negligence claim is particularly pronounced here, where, in
contrast to a negligence claim, liability for nuisance does
not depend on a defendant's ability to control the property creating
the nuisance. (See Melton, supra, 183
Cal.App.4th at p. 542.) That is, nuisance liability “does not hinge on whether the defendant owns,
possesses or controls the property, nor on whether he is in a position to abate
the nuisance; the critical question is whether the defendant created or
assisted in the creation of the nuisance.” (City of Modesto Redevelopment
Agency v. Superior Court (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 28, 38.)
The demurrer here argues that the claims
for nuisance and negligence arise out of the same purported breach of due care
to maintain the premises. That is, the claims are based on an identical set of
facts. (Compare Compl., ¶¶ 9, 25-29 [negligence claim] with ¶¶ 34-37 [nuisance
claim].) The demurrer is well taken. 
 
            Accordingly,
the demurrer to the sixth cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
Seventh Cause of Action for Violation of
Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance 
 
            A
cause of action under the City of Los Angeles’ Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance
(codified at Los Angeles Municipal Code section 45.33) requires that the
landlord “knowingly and willfully” engaged in a “course of conduct directed at
a specific tenant or tenants that caused detriment and harm, and that serves no
lawful purpose.” (LAMC § 45.33.)
 
            The
demurrer argues the Complaint’s allegations are vague and insufficient to state
a claim. Specifically, the demurrer notes that “Complaint alleges a request for
repairs and maintenance, but not what the conditions were that required this
work” and “[t]he Complaint fails to state that the conditions were of
Plaintiffs’ apartment or what part of the common area.” (Dem., 10:28-11:2.)
 
            The
Complaint here alleges numerous defects with the property and further alleges
that Plaintiffs have notified Defendants in writing concerning requested
repairs and maintenance of the building, but Defendant has refused to make
reasonable repairs or maintenance. (Compl., ¶ 39.) While the Complaint is vague
as to the specific requests made for repairs and the circumstances of the allegedly
harassing behavior, it sufficiently pleads ultimate facts. (Compl., ¶ 39.) 
 
The Court
overrules the demurrer to the seventh cause of action.
 
Eighth Cause of Action for Violation of
Unfair Competition Law, Business and Professions Codes § 17200-17209
            The UCL defines unfair competition as
“any unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business act or practice.” (Bus. &
Prof. Code § 17200.) A business practice need only satisfy one of the three
criteria—unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent—to be considered unfair competition. (McKell
v. Wash. Mut., Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1470-1471.) 
            Here, the Complaint
alleges a violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200 on the
grounds that “it is the regular practice of Defendants to intentionally
disregard the rights of tenants and violate applicable laws relating to
tenancies in their buildings in ways that include, but are not limited to,
failing to provide quiet enjoyment, failing to abate nuisances, and allowing
the defects identified herein to continue to exist in contravention of
habitability laws ” (Compl., ¶¶ 44-45.)
            This
claim is derivative of Plaintiffs’ other substantive causes of action, and thus
“stand[s] or fall[s] depending on the fate of the antecedent substantive causes
of action.” (Krantz v. BT Visual Images (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 164, 178; Aleksick
v. 7-Eleven, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1176, 1185.) 
 
            Therefore,
the demurrer to the section 17200 cause of action is overruled. 
 
Conclusion
 
            The demurrer to the Complaint is
overruled to the first, second, third, fourth, seventh, and eighth causes of
action. It is sustained as to the fifth and sixth causes of action. Plaintiff
shall have leave to amend. The amended complaint shall be filed and served on
or before June 3, 2024. 


