  Case Number:  23TRCV03376    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                         Monday,
June 17, 2024 
Department M                                                                                                                          Calendar No. 5
 
 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Jermel Franklin v. ABM Aviation, Inc., et
al.     
23TRCV03376
1.      Lee C. Schmeer’s Application to Appear as Counsel Pro
Hac Vice for Defendant ABM Aviation, Inc.       
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Lee
C. Schmeer’s Application to Appear as Counsel Pro Hac Vice for Defendant ABM
Aviation, Inc. is granted. 
 
             Background
 
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on October 16,
2023. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. This action arises out of a motor vehicle collision which occurred on April
23, 2022. 
 
            Application
to Appear Pro Hac Vice
 
            Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 9.40 states, in relevant part:
            “(d)
The application must state:
            (1)
The applicant's residence and office address;
            (2)
The courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates
of admission;
            (3)
That the applicant is a licensee in good standing in those courts;
            (4)
That the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court;
            (5)
The title of each court and cause in which the applicant has filed an
application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the preceding
two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and
            (6)
The name, address, and telephone number of the active licensee of the State Bar
of California who is attorney of record.
            (e)
An applicant for permission to appear as counsel pro hac vice under this rule
must pay a reasonable fee not exceeding $50 to the State Bar of California with
the copy of the application and the notice of hearing that is served on the
State Bar.”
 
            The
applicant has met all the requirements mandated in Rule 9.40. The application
to be admitted as counsel pro hac vice is therefore granted. 
 
            Lee
C. Schmeer is admitted as counsel pro hac vice in the pending matter.
 
            Defendant
is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 