  Case Number:  BC711642    Hearing Date:   January 28, 2025    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST
DISTRICT - BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE 
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULINGS ON PLAINTIFFS’
MOTIONS IN LIMINE (“MIL”) NOS. 1 through 6,  STEPHEN HALL DEFENDANTS’ MIL NOS. 1 through 11
AND RH&A DEFENDANTS’ MIL Nos. 1 THROUGH 14
 
Delis v.
Montecito Financial Services, et al., and related cross-actions, Case No. BC711642
Hearing
Date: January 28, 2025, 8:30 a.m.  
 
Plaintiffs’ MIL

Exclude Reference to
     Allegations in Superseded Complaint

          Plaintiffs’ First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) stated a twenty-third cause of action for dependent
adult abuse as to Drew Delis and alleged that Drew Delis was a “dependent
adult” when his funds were invested with Defendants. The Court thereafter
sustained a demurrer to the FAC on the basis that Drew lacked standing. The
subsequent second amended complaint and pending third amended complaint (“TAC”)
does not assert a cause of action for dependent adult abuse nor allege that
Drew is a dependent adult. As a result, the allegations of the FAC have been
superseded are no longer relevant. (Foster v. Sexton (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th
998, 1035) Moreover, factual allegations in a complaint are not necessarily
judicial admissions – unless they are also accepted by the opposing party. (Barsegian
v. Kessler & Kessler (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 446, 452) Plaintiffs
seek to exclude any references to this now withdrawn cause of action or
allegation, and or contend that these are admissions on their part, on the
grounds that it would mislead the jury. Moreover, that Drew is a “dependent
adult” is not a factual assertion, but a legal conclusion, nor one that Defendants
have accepted such that this can be an admission on Plaintiffs’ part. 
          Defendants oppose
the motion on two bases: (1) The allegation is relevant to the Defendants’
cross-complaints against Dean Delis and Margaret Delis for their lack of due
care on behalf of drew, such that they have a duty to indemnify Defendants for
any losses claimed by Drew. There would be no confusion to a jury if the Court
bifurcates the cross-complaints and those would be tried by the Court, not a
jury. (2) Defendants should be able to use this allegation as impeachment of a
party as a prior inconsistent statement or admission against interest. (Staples
v. Hoefke (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1397, 1412) (even if a superseded pleading
cannot be used as affirmative evidence, it may be used to impeach) 
          The Court has
since the papers were filed bifurcated the cross-complaints. If the
cross-complaints are tried by the Court, there would be no jury concern. If
they were tried by a jury, and or if this issue arose during the jury phase of trial
of the TAC before a jury, the jury concern would be present. That said, the
Court agrees with Defendants that they may reference this allegation if it
would be inconsistent with any others statement by Plaintiffs but otherwise
agrees with Plaintiffs that if they do not raise a claim that Drew is a “dependent
adult,”[1]
Defendants cannot bring it up. As Defendants do not agree Drew is a dependent
adult, this would not be a judicial admission. In turn, where this is not a “factual”
allegation, t could not come in on that basis either. 
 GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED
IN PART 
 

Exclude Bonnie Stern as
     an Expert Witness and to Preclude Admission of Her Work Product

           In opposition to
the motion, Defendants indicate they are withdrawing Stern as a designated
expert and will instead call her as a lay witness. Hence, she cannot testify as
an expert. As concerns her work product (profit and loss statements and balance
sheets), Plaintiffs argue that it is unreliable and should be excluded. The
Court will need to hear her testimony before making any decision. Defendants
contend that Stern is an experienced bookkeeper. Plaintiffs contend the work
product is unreliable and as summaries are without sufficient foundation.
Plaintiffs do not show what undue prejudice they would suffer if she testified
to what foundation supports the admissibility of these records that a MIL is
necessary prior to trial and they can object at that time if necessary. 
GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART 
 

Exclude Certain Expert
     Testimony of Dr. Barbara Luna

          Dr. Luna is
Defendants’ designated forensic accountant whose designation includes opinions
based on Stern’s data, as well as to rebut expert opinion testimony of
Plaintiffs’ forensic accounting expert, Gary Krausz. As discussed above, it is
unclear at this time if Stern’s data will be admissible. If so, Luna will then
have “case-specific” facts on which she can rely for any opinion. She may not
need to have relied on any other records to reach an opinion. If Stern’s data
is not admitted, however, it may be that Luna will not have any necessary
foundation to provide an expert opinion. Hence, the Court cannot exclude her
testimony now. Moreover, Plaintiffs fail to provide any basis why Luna cannot
be a rebuttal witness – which would not depend on the documents Stern created.  
DENIED 

Exclude Certain Expert
     Testimony of David Nolte

          Plaintiffs contend
that Defendants’ designated expert expressed opinions at his deposition (concerning
real estate issues, securities matters and the Robert Hall & Assoc.
seminars ) that went beyond what he was designated to provide opinions
concerning that as a result should be subject to exclusion.[2]
In opposition, Defendants assert that their designation of Nolte as to “related
issues” concerning their qualifications permits him to give opinions about
whether Stephen Hall required a real estate brokerage license and or registration
as an investment advisor to borrow money from Plaintiffs. In turn, Defendants
contend that Plaintiffs knew about his having opinions related to the seminars
because his opinions as to the Halls’ and or RH&A’s qualifications rested
in part on their materials, including as to the seminars. Moreover, even if the
designation was not as clear as it could have been, Plaintiffs were aware he would
testify on these subjects from the production of his report before his
deposition and then were able to question him at length on these subjects at
his deposition, thereby avoiding any undue prejudice that would preclude his
testifying at trial. (Du-All Safety v. Sup. Ct. (2019) 34 Cal.App.5th
485, 499) This basis of the motion is denied.  
          In addition,
Plaintiffs argue that Defendants cannot use Nolte to give the above-referenced
opinions concerning real estate and securities matters to rebut the opinions of
the experts Plaintiffs designated on these subjects where Defendants did not
counter-designate him. Moreover, as to the securities opinion, it would be
cumulative to the expert counter-designated by defendant Orock. In opposition, Defendants
contend that no counter-designation is required where he can testify in
rebuttal under CCP sec. 2034.310 as to the validity of the facts that are the
foundation for the opinions of Hiraide and Nichols (even if he cannot contradict
the actual opinions). Further, pp. 15-21 of Nolte’s report states why
Plaintiffs would not have been damaged in buying this stock and hence Plaintiffs
have not been unduly prejudiced by any failure to clearly designate Nolte on Orock.
(Du-All Safety, supra) Whether this opinion is cumulative to Sanchez’s
opinion remains to be seen and this issue can be revisited after hearing from Sanchez.
The motion is granted in part as to any direct rebuttal of the opinions of
Hiraide and Nichols but otherwise denied (to the extent such opinions were
provided in response to questions at his deposition.) 
          Plaintiffs also contend
that Nolte’s opinions concerning whether Defendants violated any applicable
duties (and as to Business & Professions Code secs. 10131 and 10131.1) are
legal conclusions that are beyond what he is permitted to give an expert
opinion concerning. In opposition, Defendants assert that Nolte can permissibly
testify to his opinion on these subjects in terms of his industry experience
and practices. Nolte cannot give opinions as to these code sections nor as to
whether Defendants violated applicable laws. Nonetheless, he can testify to what
he understands based on his experience and in the industry.  
          Further, they
contend Nolte’s opinions as to the standard of care of tax preparers or
consultants and as to the “worthless deduction” are not matters raised by the
pleadings and are therefore irrelevant. In opposition, Defendants contend
paras. 85-89 of the TAC and paras. 600-601 of the twenty-second cause of action
for professional negligence in the TAC raise the issue of the tax services
RH&A provided. Further, in having been designated to opine concerning
damages, Defendants argue that he will testify that the deductions were not worthless
in advance of a foreclosure, hence were not worthless and therefore damages
were not as claimed. In their Reply, Plaintiffs withdrew their arguments on
these points. Therefore, the motion is denied on these issues. 
          Finally,
Plaintiffs seek to exclude his opinions concerning Plaintiffs’ investment decision-making
and the level of care they exercised as speculative, irrelevant and
prejudicial. In opposition, Defendants contend that Nolte’s opinion that
Plaintiffs had to have known that the investments were risky had sufficient
foundation where he knew Plaintiffs were advised by Margaret Delis’ brother,
Neil Wilson, who was an experienced investment advisor and would or should have
known at that time that a 12% return must have had a risk component where
returns on low-risk investments were typically one third of that amount. Nolte
can testify to the issues arising from hiring Wilson but not as to Plaintiffs’
general level of sophistication or degree of care for which there is
insufficient proffer of any foundation for such opinions. 
GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART 

Exclude Evidence and
     Argument Relating to Any Alleged Duty by Plaintiffs to Foreclose to
     Mitigate Damages

          Plaintiffs argue
that Defendants should be prevented from arguing that Plaintiffs were required
to foreclose. They point to the Court having previously granted in part their
motion for summary adjudication rejecting Defendants’ affirmative defense to
Plaintiffs’ cause of action for Defendants’ breach of the promissory notes. Defendants’
breach of their promise to pay money on a date in the future (a note) is not
negated by what actions Plaintiffs take on breach of that promise. 
          That said,
Defendants do not dispute that Plaintiffs did not have a duty to foreclose on
breach. Instead, they argue that Plaintiffs’ not having done so is relevant to Plaintiffs’
separate duty to mitigate their damages (from breach of the notes), which turns
on whether not doing so was reasonable under the circumstances. Defendants
argue this determination is for the trier of fact, not for the Court on a MIL where
it is in effect a disguised summary adjudication motion. Defendants argue also
that Plaintiffs’ not foreclosing on some notes is material to their continued
reliance on Defendants – which is an issue more generally concerning later
investments. In reply, Plaintiffs argue that it would have unreasonable to
foreclose where Plaintiffs were junior lienholders on properties that were
over-encumbered. 
          The Court concurs
with Defendants that whether Plaintiffs should have foreclosed is relevant to
numerous issues separate and apart from whether Plaintiffs were required under
the terms of the notes to foreclose. The Court therefore cannot now order that
Defendants cannot put on evidence or argue that Plaintiffs are altogether not
required to have foreclosed as this would be misleading in terms of the issues
still pending. Hence, to this extent, the motion is denied. In turn, as to what
is required under the terms of the notes, the Court has already ruled and
therefore no further evidence is needed on this subject for purposes of
Defendants’ breach. Hence, in this limited respect, the motion can be granted. 
GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART 

Exclude Evidence and
     Argument Relating to Plaintiffs' Alleged Secondary Assumption of Risk
     and/or Plaintiffs' Contributory Negligence

          Plaintiffs
seek to exclude Defendants presenting any evidence to support their affirmative
defense that Plaintiffs assumed the risk of the investments they made with
Defendants. (Knight v. Jewett (1992) 3 Cal.4th 296, 304) Plaintiffs
point to the Court having granted them summary adjudication that this defense
has no applicability at least to their causes of action for intentional
concealment or fraud, breach of contract and an accounting. Defendants argue in
response that the Court denied the motion as to the cases of action for
negligence and breach of fiduciary duty. Hence, they argue that they should be
permitted to introduce evidence of their “continuing to roll the dice and lend”
at least for these reasons, subject to a jury instruction. In addition,
Defendants contend this motion is effectively a motion for reconsideration of
the order denying in part the motion for a summary adjudication, as well as
lacking the required specificity of evidence sought to be excluded. 
          The Court
denies the motion. The Court cannot as a practical matter exclude evidence that
may go this affirmative defense, even if it is of no relevance to the causes of
action to which it does not apply. The Court will nonetheless instruct the jury
that assumption of risk has no bearing on the causes of action that the Court
already ruled it did not and thereby avoid prevent the jury being misled – to
the extent necessary: The Court has since filing of this motion determined that
the breach of contract cause of action (and potentially the accounting cause of
action) will be tried separately to the Court – thereby further mitigating the
issue. Defendants will not be able to present this evidence in the bifurcated
breach of contract trial.
 
GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART    
 
Stephen Hall Defendants’ MIL

Exclude Evidence of
     Personal Guarantees and Admit Settlement Proposal

          Defendants argue
that promises they made in or about November 2017 to personally guarantee the
repayment of what Plaintiffs had lent their entities should be excluded under
Evid. Code sec. 1152. By contrast, Plaintiffs argue that they have alleged
these promises were part of a wrongful attempt to “lull” them or for them to
“forebear” from obtaining lawyers to redress Defendants’ actions in not
repaying what they had lent. Said claim is part of the actions that comprise
the first cause of action in the TAC for conspiracy to defraud. In addition,
Plaintiffs had asserted these promises constituted an enforceable oral forbearance
agreement in opposition to Defendants’ motion for summary judgment.[3]

          The Court does not
now address whether these promises amount to an enforceable forbearance agreement.
It is apparent, however, that these are communications directed at a
resolution, even if they may not have been truthful. Contrary to what Plaintiffs
argue, the offer to guarantee – which Defendants had not given previously – must
itself be viewed as an effort to settle. Whether classified as a forbearance
agreement or as attempt to lull Plaintiffs into not acting, it is still some
indication of acknowledgment of responsibility -- reasonably seen as an
admission of liability. The parties do not provide the Court with any
authorities that make distinctions as to the types of communications concerning
settlement, whether they be truthful, unrealistic or otherwise. Indeed, the
Court infers that all such communications were intended where the statute is
not limited to consummated settlement agreements but is stated broadly as “any
conduct or statements made in negotiation thereof….”[4]
          However, for
similar reasons, the discussions in May 2018 (that Defendants acknowledge were
a continuing discussion from the conversations that included the
above-referenced alleged promises) (that did not result in an executed
agreement, even if the proposed agreement was detailed) are also inadmissible.
Therefore, the Court denies Defendants’ request that these later discussions be
admissible to rebut Plaintiffs’ claim that Defendants were acting in bad faith.
          Defendants cannot use Evid. Code sec. 1152
as both a shield and a sword. While sec. 1152 only prohibits settlement
discussions for purposes of establishing liability, but not for other purposes (as
both sides argue would be true for the parts of the discussions they want the
jury to hear), that is to ignore that these same earlier discussions are being
excluded for exactly that purpose. Moreover, there is a “substantial danger”
under Evid. Code sec. 352 that any probative value would be outweighed by
likely jury confusion and undue prejudice to Plaintiffs: On the one hand, the
Court would be allowing testimony that Defendants were thereby allegedly
showing that they were acting in good faith (right or wrong) (and Plaintiffs argue
the proposal was not in good faith) and not liable. On the other hand, the Court
would be inconsistently precluding Plaintiffs from pursuing their claim that
Defendants were seeking to falsely lull them into inaction (right or wrong) and
that they are liable. As Defendants acknowledge, these conversations were a
“continuum” that the Court cannot properly separate and exclude the earlier
parts but admit the later parts. They are two sides of the same coin. 
GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART 
 
 
 

Exclude Evidence of
     Credit Card Charges to Prisma Entertainment

          Defendants seek to
exclude a $547 charge at a strip club under Evid. Code sec. 352 in that it has
minimal probative value to show Defendants were wrongly using Plaintiffs’ money
(compared to the much larger amount at issue) and instead would be highly
prejudicial to Defendants in front of a jury who might then rule against him not
because he was using Plaintiffs’ money but because they did not approve of his frequenting
that type of establishment. 
          Plaintiffs oppose
the motion on the basis that this expense is highly probative of what is the
key issue in this case; namely, Defendants wrongly using Plaintiffs’ money for
their own personal purposes and not for the business reasons that Plaintiffs
invested with Defendants. Specifically, the alter ego claim pertains to Defendants’
use of money for different purposes than intended, commingling of assets and
disregard of corporate and other formalities. While this charge is admittedly a
small amount, the amount is not the issue but rather what it may reflect about
Defendants’ lack of respect for their possession of Plaintiffs’ funds. Relatedly,
Plaintiffs dispute that this evidence is improper “character” evidence
prohibited by Evid. Code sec. 1101(a). 
          The Court finds Plaintiffs’
argument more persuasive: This charge, apparently together with other wrongful
uses, is part of Plaintiffs’ case that they have a right to put on. It is not
wholly unrelated to what is at issue  -
that might make it more prejudicial than probative. While the charge is
prejudicial to Defendants, it does not seem so shocking that it would cause
jurors to change their view of Defendants and take some action they might not
otherwise. Moreover, to the extent that this evidence is part of the alter ego
phase of trial, which will be tried to the court, this concern is in any event
absent. 
          Under sec. 1101(b)
evidence of an act can be received when offered to prove some other fact (e.g.,
here disregard of corporate formalities) other than for “disposition to commit
such an act.” Here, there is no suggestion that Stephen Hall having gone to a
strip club was consistent with a propensity to commit wrongful actions. It is
the opposite, i.e., that his use of this money at a strip club is indicative of
a disregard of the fact that he was using other people’s money.    
DENIED
 

Exclude Evidence of
     Plaintiffs' Financial Condition

          Defendants seek to
exclude evidence of the financial condition of Plaintiffs, and that the
money Defendants obtained was for the retirement of Dean Delis and Margaret
Delis and for the significant costs of the ongoing medical care of Drew Delis for
his catastrophic injuries, on the basis that it is not probative of the issues
involved and would be unduly prejudicial. They contend that the issues related
to whether Dean Delis and Margaret Delis properly handled the finds belonging
to Drew Delis is the subject of a bifurcated cross-complaint. 
          Plaintiffs argue
that this evidence goes directly to the level of risk Plaintiffs wished to take
and that Defendants allegedly ignored in not using the money on the low-risk
investments Plaintiffs understood they were making in real estate rather than
securities. This issue would be part of Plaintiffs’ fraud claim and might serve
as a predicate for punitive damages. Similarly, Defendants’ alleged knowledge
of such concerns would also be key to the fraud cause of action. In turn, this
evidence would rebut Defendants’ defense that Plaintiffs assumed the risks
involved. In turn, that Plaintiffs’ financial needs may also be relevant on the
cross-complaint does not mean it is not relevant to the complaint. While this
evidence may make Plaintiffs’ situation more sympathetic to a jury that does
not also mean Defendants are entitled to exclude this evidence that is part of
their case. 
          The risk-level of
these investments was allegedly part of the discussion in making these
investments. If so, the suitability of higher risk investments for persons who
are near retirement or who have significant medical costs would be relevant. This
probative value is more significant than any resulting prejudice. 
DENIED 
 

Exclude References to
     and Speculation or Suggestions About Lost or Destroyed Evidence

          Defendants seek to
exclude a broad swath of evidence because there is allegedly no evidence of
“willful” suppression of evidence and that it would be prejudicial for a jury
to hear innuendo about loss or destruction of records if it was not “willful.” Plaintiffs
argue in opposition that Defendants do not dispute that they do not have the
records they should have had and that the lack of records is probative to their
causes of action for alter ego and fraud. In turn, they argue Defendants can
explain the lack of records and avoid any prejudice.   
          Evid. Code sec.
412 reads: “If weaker and less satisfactory evidence is offered when it was
within the power of the party to produce stronger and more satisfactory
evidence, the evidence offered should be viewed with distrust.” 
          Evid. Code sec.
413 reads: “In determining what inferences to draw from the evidence or facts
in the case against a party, the trier of fact may consider, among other
things, the party’s failure to explain or to deny by his testimony such
evidence or facts in the case against him, or willful suppression of
evidence relating thereto, if such be the case.” (Emphasis added) 
          CACI No. 204
reads: “You may consider whether one party intentionally concealed or destroyed
evidence. If you decide that a party did so, you may decide that the evidence would
be unfavorable to that party.” 
          The parties
conflate two legal issues: first, what consequence should flow from not having
records in the first place and second, whether there was “willful” suppression
of evidence. While the underlying facts may be relevant to both these issues, the
relevant law is different for each legal issue. The Court has not heard the
evidence. It may be without dispute that Defendants did not keep the sorts of
records that might have reasonably been expected. This may warrant an
instruction under Evid. Code sec. 412 but not necessarily under sec. 413. Not
having records may not be the same as destroying records. As set forth above, however,
an instruction pursuant to Evid. Code sec. 413 can arise under one or two
scenarios: First, when a party fails to explain or deny by his testimony the
evidence or facts against him. Second, when a party willfully suppresses
evidence. Here, if Defendants do not explain or deny why they did not have any
records (if they are found to have had an obligation to have had them), then an
instruction under sec. 413 may be appropriate even if there was not a “willful”
suppression of evidence. In turn, a jury might find that not having records in
the first place was itself a “willful” attempt to avoid potential liability. As
Plaintiffs note, a jury may infer “willful” conduct based on circumstantial
evidence. It is too soon to tell what the evidence will show or which
instructions (or parts of them) the Court will then give the jury.[5]
The Court cannot exclude a broad category of evidence that a jury may or may
not find amounts to “willful” suppression. Moreover, under this Court’s Local
Rule 3.57, the Court can only exclude specific evidence. This motion is not
directed at specific evidence.   
DENIED      

Exclude Expert Opinion that
     Exceeds Expert Witness's Deposition Testimony

          Defendants seek to
exclude potential opinions of Plaintiffs’ experts that they may state at trial,
including of Nichols and Hiraide, that they did not state at their depositions.
Plaintiffs oppose the motion on the basis that it neither states what opinions
were given at deposition that they may not vary from nor what specific opinions
they might give that would run afoul of this basic rule. (Kelly v. New West
Fed. Savings (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 659, 670) A MIL is not needed
merely to state basic law. (Id.) Plaintiffs also indicate there is no
cited examples of an expert stating that these are their only opinions and that
there is reason to believe they will provide other opinions. Again, Plaintiffs
argue that the motion lacks the required specificity. Defendants reply that
they cannot be specific where they do not know what opinions they might give.
In addition, they assert that they do not need to be specific where the
specifics of their opinions are set forth in other MIL.    
          There is no good
cause for the motion now. Defendants can instead object during trial if
Plaintiffs solicit an opinion outside what their expert testified to
previously. In addition, they can move to strike any unanticipated opinion. Defendants
do not show how this would not be adequate. Blanket exclusion before trial of
other opinions may sweep too wide where an expert may be able permissibly to
give an opinion based on different facts or a hypothetical they were not asked
about at deposition. Finally, the Court cannot be expected to scour other
motions to determine this motion. The supporting evidence must be made part of
the motion at issue. 
DENIED
 

Exclude Portions of
     Plaintiffs' Expert Witness Lynda Larsen's Testimony

          Defendants seek to
exclude certain portions of the report of Lynda Larsen, a private investigator Plaintiffs
hired, concerning generally Stephen Hall and Brad Wiedmann’s experience in real
estate, the underpinnings of alter ego liability, including as to control of
entities, and as to whether there was fraud here. Defendants question her
qualifications to testify on these subjects and whether she has any special
knowledge over and above that of a layperson that would entitle her to give an
expert opinion, for purposes of Evid. Code sec. 720, or whether she is just
providing common sense information that the jurors themselves could glean from
the evidence. 
           Plaintiffs oppose the motion on the basis that
Larsen has forty years of experience as an investigator in criminal and fraud
cases and can provide opinions based on this experience. (People v. Tompkins
(2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1265) (allowing report of a sex crimes
investigator) They also argue based on the cases cited that her opinions shall have
sufficient foundation, notwithstanding the requirements of Sanchez that
case specific facts must be admissible, where she will be relying on records
not for the truth of their contents but to show what records were not disclosed
to Plaintiffs (which itself would be relevant to fraud.) Further, Plaintiffs
argue that this motion cannot be decided before trial where the Court does not
know what she will be relying upon to state these opinions.     
          Larsen’s report
and investigation appears to exceed one thousand pages. Her CV indicates a long
history of working on criminal cases that may have depended upon her
investigation as an expert. Investigators are routinely appointed as experts in
criminal cases to explore areas that it may be difficult to otherwise obtain
information. The same may be true here based on the level of data in her
report. Not all information is easy to access unless a person knows how to find
it. The Court will have to hear from her as to what she uncovered to know
whether she can reach the opinions she had. Hence, this motion is premature in
objecting to her opinions. Whether she has sufficient non-hearsay evidence (or
evidence where there is a hearsay exception applicable) that she can
permissibly rely upon remains to be seen. The facts as to what Defendants knew
or intended and the like would be case specific facts requiring admissible
evidence for her then to opine concerning. Absent that evidence, some of these
opinions may be subject to being stricken. In turn, she will not be able to
give opinions on the ultimate issues for the jury or court to decide – even if can
give opinions that will help the trier of fact decide. While her qualifications
may not match that of a forensic accountant, that does not mean she has no
expertise. This is an issue that goes to what weight to give her opinions -
which is not a basis to exclude the opinions. There is no claim of
“methodological” issue here warranting exclusion. It is well known that courts
are not to preclude a party from putting on their case by way of granting a MIL
that takes the heart out of it without sufficient cause. That cause is not
present here. 
DENIED 

Exclude Evidence of Drew
     Delis's Accident, Injuries, and Treatment

          This motion raises
the same issues as Defendants’ above MIL No. 3. The arguments in support of and
in opposition to are essentially the same. While the Court may put some limit
at trial on the level of detail of the injuries if it were to become
cumulative, for the same reasons as with MIL No. 3, the probative value of this
information exceeds its potentially prejudicial impact. 
DENIED

Exclude Portions of
     Testimony of Plaintiffs' Expert Barbara Nichols

          Defendants seek to
exclude numerous opinions of Nichols, a real estate broker, Plaintiffs’ expert
on customs and practices in the real estate field concerning the sale of notes
and deeds of trust at issue here. Defendants argue that these opinions are
legal conclusions she may not permissibly give and or are her personal feelings
about the conduct in question that go beyond her testifying as an expert. Plaintiffs
oppose the motion that her views are not legal conclusions but reflect her forty
plus years of experience as a broker, investor and developer, as well as her consulting
the Dept. Real Estate Manual for brokers. This combined knowledge is beyond
“common knowledge” and therefore appropriate for an expert opinion. 
          The Court agrees
with Defendants that Nichols’ comments such as the Halls having “overreaching
nerve” to blame Drew’s parents for losses Drew’s companies suffered goes beyond
the scope of her designation, as well as being irrelevant to the issues on the
complaint as opposed to the cross-complaints. The Court also agrees that it is
not within the proper scope of an expert’s testimony to opine regarding the
veracity of the parties or as to their knowledge or intent (even if she can
refer to statements they made or actions they did or did not take (that have
been received into evidence)), which are inferences for the trier of fact to
determine. That said, the Court otherwise denies the motion. Specifically, but
not by way of limitation. Nichols may testify as to what the DRE regulations
require, whether what she sees has the hallmarks of a Ponzi scheme and is
illegal as far as she understands the law, what is required in terms of
licensing and disclosure, and as to whether the transactions here fall within
the rules as to “fractionalized” loans or are sales of securities subject to
separate requirements. The Court finds that her experience is sufficient to
have opinions on these issues, notwithstanding her acknowledged limitations in
her experience and knowledge. It is sufficient that Defendants may
cross-examine Nichols on these subjects. Exclusion is not required. Her
opinions on these issues do not usurp the role of the trier of fact. 
GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART 
 

Exclude Expert Opinion
     on any Subject Not Disclosed in Plaintiffs' Expert Witness Disclosure

           Defendants seek a
general order consistent with applicable law, however, divorced from any
particular facts – as Plaintiffs argue in opposition. Defendants respond that Plaintiffs
could stipulate to not doing what is not permitted. 
          LASC Rule 3.57
requires specificity. No purpose is served here without application to the
experts who have been designated and the scope of their designations. The devil
is in the details. No good cause is established for an order.  This issue if it comes up can be raised at
trial. 
DENIED

Exclude Portions of
     Testimony of Plaintiffs' Expert Mark Hiraide

          Defendants seek to
exclude various opinions of Plaintiffs’ securities expert, a lawyer. The
Court’s ruling here will depend upon what issues are to be tried. There was
discussion at the status conference on October 4, 2024 concerning whether
Plaintiffs would continue to assert their third cause of action for securities
fraud where they already had their second cause of action for fraud. Subsequently,
the parties met and conferred as to whether Plaintiffs intended to dismiss the
third cause of action. The Court orders the parties to meet and confer further
on this issue and advise the Court five days prior to the hearing on these
motions what their final positions will be as to this issue, the issues below
on this motion, as well as their respective proposals if they differ. The
outcome of those decisions will impact the ruling on this motion. 
          It was also not
clear to the Court if Plaintiffs were continuing with the third cause of action,
and or if the issue of whether these transactions were “securities” was
relevant to the cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty, that this issue was
one for a jury rather than the Court. If the issue is to be tried by the bench,
many of the concerns in this MIL may become moot. 
          In turn, assuming
that this specific issue was one for the Court, it is not clear whether this
issue could be decided by motion or required an evidentiary hearing. If the
issue can be decided by motion, this motion becomes moot. If the issue required
an evidentiary hearing, the Court needs to know what the disputed factual
issues are that the decision as to whether the transactions are securities would
hinge upon. With that information, the Court can better assess if Hiraide would
be merely explaining the law – in which case his testimony may be subject to
exclusion as usurping the role of the Court (see QDOS v. Signature
Fin. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 990, 1004) – or if there are
“complex” issues beyond common knowledge that the Court would need his input
concerning. (See People v. Figueroa (1986) 41 Cal.3d 714, 733-734,
People v. Graham (1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 1159, 1169) As the Court
understands the issue at this point, the issue is merely whether lending money
ostensibly secured by real property is a “security;” however, if it is more
complex, the parties need to further educate the Court on this motion. Again,
the Court needs input from the parties on the foregoing to rule on this MIL.
          Relatedly, it is
not clear either if (1) Plaintiffs are still contending the transactions are
securities even if they are not pursuing the third cause of action and (2) how
this issue then remains relevant. In turn, how the foregoing is decided may
impact the relevance of whether certain defendants may be deemed an “investment
advisor” or “broker-dealer” and hence might have had to register as such – also
at issue on this MIL. In turn, depending on their classification, what
fiduciary duties, if any, defendants might have may be decided as a legal
matter for the Court potentially without need for expert testimony. In
addition, how these transactions were sold (if that is the correct way
of stating what happened here depending on how the transactions are treated) and
or regarding suitability or the “materiality” of representations or omissions may
also be impacted. Conversely, if the Court were to determine these transactions
were not securities, it may be Hiraide’s expertise would no longer be useful in
determining whether there was any liability for fraud based on his opinion from
his experience and knowledge of customs and practices in the securities area. 
CONSIDER FURTHER ARGUMENT AT HEARING
 
11.  To Sever
Cross-Complaint
The Court previously made this order. Hence, the motion is now
moot. 
 
RH&A DEFENDANTS MIL
 
1.    To Exclude Evidence of Settlement Offers and Negotiations
Same ruling as above on Def. Stphen Hall’s MIL No. 1: GRANTED IN
PART AND DENIED IN PART 
 
2.    To Exclude All Evidence, Reference to Evidence, Testimony,
or Argument Relating to PARCS Liability Insurance Coverage or its Limits
Unopposed. GRANTED
 
3.    To Exclude Expert Opinions Which Are Based on Hearsay in
Violation of the Sanchez Rule
          This motion is
stated generally – in violation of the requirement that a MIL address
specifics. The motion also, however, references Larsen’s opinions – raising
similar concerns as did the Steven Hall defendants, as set forth above. Plaintiffs’
opposition is similar – pointing out how they intend to use the foundation of
Larsen’s report principally as non-hearsay and in rebuttal to Stephen Hall and
Weidemann’s representations. 
          The Court
incorporates its ruling to Stephen Hall’s MIL No. 6. 
DENIED 
 
4.    To Exclude Any and All Evidence, References to Evidence,
Testimony or Argument Relating Drew Delis Accident, Injuries, Medical
Treatment, Psychological Treatment, Medical Bills, and Settlement Funds
          The Court’s ruling
on this motion is the same as the effectively identical MIL No. 3 of the
Stepehen Hall defendants. That Drew himself is no longer a party - and instead
his companies are – does not change the reasons stated above why these issues
still have relevance and are more probative than prejudicial. In particular,
the suitability / risk-level issues as to these investments is directly tied to
Drew’s medical needs. Defendants are also not entitled to exclude the contexts
for these transactions where these explain why Drew had these funds. 
DENIED 
 
5.    To Exclude Any Reference to Denial or Granting of any
Motions for Summary Judgment  or Summary Adjudication
Unopposed. GRANTED 
 
6.    To Exclude Any and All Evidence, References to Evidence,
Testimony or Argument Relating to Dean C. Delis Vulnerability
Unopposed. GRANTED 
 
7.    To Exclude Any and All Evidence, References to Evidence,
Testimony or Argument Relating to Mediation
Unopposed. GRANTED 
 
8.    To Exclude Any Evidence, References to, Testimony or
Argument Regarding the Consent Order Signed by Non-Party Janice Hall
This motion concerns an order signed by Janice hall, Robert hall’s
wife and an owner of certain defendant entities. This order concerns certain
actions taken by her as part of her former employment with a bank. Plaintiffs oppose
the motion that it is not needed where they do not intend to introduce the
document. The order appears irrelevant to the issues here and was made as part
of a settlement and hence is inadmissible in any event. 
GRANTED 
 
9.    To Exclude Expert Testimony of Expert(s) Not Disclosed in
Plaintiffs Expert Witness Declarations
WITHDRAWN  
 
10.   To Exclude Plaintiffs Expert Opinion(s) Not Provided in
Deposition
WITHDRAWN 
 
11.   To Exclude Expert Testimony of Mark Hiraide
Same ruling as above on Def. Stphen Hall’s MIL No. 10: CONSIDER
FURTHER ARGUMENT AT HEARING  
 
12.   To Exclude Expert Testimony on Topic(s) Not Identified in
the Plaintiffs Expert Witness Declaration(s) for the Expert
WITHDRAWN  
 
13.   Excluding Non-Party Witnesses from Courtroom Prior to
Testifying
Unopposed. 
GRANTED 
 
14.   Exclude Expert Testimony of Plaintiffs' Expert Barbara
Nichols
          The Court reaches
the same conclusion on this motion as it did with the essentially identical MIL
No. 8 of the Stephen Hall Defendants. Nichols may give her opinions as to items(a)
through (h) set forth in the motion based on her experience and understanding
without giving opinions on an issue of law. Whether she can testify concerning
items (i) through (m) will depend on what foundation Plaintiffs lay as to these
“case-specific issues” for her to state opinions. It is premature for the court
to be able to determine if her testimony on these subjects should be excluded. Likewise,
items (n), (o) and (p) will depend upon what evidence is received on these
related topics. As to items (q) and (r), however, the Court agrees these
opinions cross the line and go beyond what is based upon her expertise. The
jurors can draw their own conclusions. Finally, item (s) is too broad and can
be better addressed more specifically by way of cross-examination at trial.  
GRANTED IN PART AND DENIED IN PART 


