  Case Number:  20STCV29154    Hearing Date:   October 28, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
James Chen, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
20STCV29154




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Yi Hu, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: October
28, 2024
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for
Assignment Order;
Motion for
Charge Order
Moving Party: Plaintiffs/Judgment
Creditors James Chen and Eugenia Hsu
Responding
Party: Defendants/Judgment Debtors Yi Hu, Qiushi Liang and Agape Home Health
Services, Inc.
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFFS/JUDGMENT CREDITORS’ MOTIONS ARE GRANTED.
 
PLAINTIFFS/JUDGMENT CREDITORS TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the
courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers and oppositions.
 
A. Motion for
Assignment Order
 
Under Code of
Civil Procedure, section 708.510, subdivision (a), the Court may order the
judgment debtor to assign to the judgment creditor or to an appointed receiver
all or part of a right to payment due or to become due. The types of payments
that can be assigned include wages due from the federal government if not
subject to a withholding order, rents, commissions, royalties, patent or
copyright payments, and insurance policy loan value. (Code Civ. Proc., §
708.510, subd. (a).)
 
Relevant factors the Court may take into
consideration when making an assignment order include the judgment debtor’s
reasonable requirements if they are a natural person, payments the judgment
debtor is required to make to satisfy other judgments and wage assignments, the
amount remaining due on the judgment, and the amount to be received in
satisfaction of the right to payment that may be assigned. (Code Civ. Proc., §
708.510, subd. (c).) 
Plaintiffs/Judgment Creditors move for an
order assigning payments from Julie Lili, LLC, Agape Home Health Services,
Inc., Medicare and Medi-Cal and all
other Persons or Entities from whom payments are due or coming due to Debtor.
Creditors also seek an accounting and restraining order preventing Debtors from
otherwise assigning payments.
Creditors
assert the parties transferred title to their home to Julie Lili, LLC. Agape is
a party and Debtor and receives payments from Medicare and Medi-Cal. Creditors
represent Debtors have made no payments toward the over $1 million judgment
awarded in this action. In
opposition, Debtors assert the Julie Lili, LLC has nothing to do with this
case. Debtors also argue that any assignment of income from Agape will prevent
Agape from staying in business and ultimately prevent Debtors from paying the
judgment. 
The Court finds Creditors are entitled to the
assignment orders requested. Debtors have not paid the judgment. The Court will
order an accounting to determine the appropriate amount of any assignments.
The motion is GRANTED.
B. Motion for Charging Order
Code
Civ. Proc. § 708.310
provides as follows: “If a money judgment is rendered against a partner or
member but not against the partnership or limited liability company, the
judgment debtor's interest in the partnership or limited liability company may
be applied toward the satisfaction of the judgment by an order charging the
judgment debtor's interest pursuant to Section 15907.3 16504, or 17705.03 of
the Corporations Code.”
Creditors
move for an order charging Debtor’s interest in Julie Lili, LLC. As stated,
Creditors assert Debtors transferred title to their home to Julie Lili, LLC during
trial and have yet to pay any of the judgment. Creditors are entitled to a
charging order.
The
motion is GRANTED.