  Case Number:  21PSCV00428    Hearing Date:   June 10, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Maria Angela
Rodriguez v. Mercado Latino, Inc., et al. 
Defendants
Mercado Latino, Inc., Grosac, Inc., Richard Rodriguez, and Roberto Rodriguez’s
Demurrer to the Second Amended Complaint 
TENTATIVE RULING           
The Court
SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action in the Second Amended
Complaint with 20 days’ leave to amend as to Richard, Roberto, Jorge, and
Grosac. This is the last opportunity the Court will give Plaintiff to attempt
to plead this cause of action. The Court
SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action in the Second Amended
Complaint without leave to amend as to Mercado Latino.
Moving Parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling and file
proof of service of same within five calendar days. 
BACKGROUND 
This
is an involuntary dissolution action. On May 21, 2021, Plaintiff Maria Angela
Rodriguez (Plaintiff) filed this action against Defendants Mercado Latino, Inc.
(Mercado Latino), Grosac, Inc. (Grosac), Richard Yarruths Rodriguez (Richard), Roberto
Rodriguez (Roberto), Jorge Rodriguez (Jorge) (collectively, Defendants), and
Does 1 through 50. On March 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative Second
Amended Complaint (SAC), alleging causes of action for involuntary dissolution
of Mercado Latino and Grosac, breach of fiduciary duty, financial elder abuse,
and accounting. 
On
April 24, 2024, Defendants Mercado Latino, Grosac, Richard, and Roberto
(collectively, Moving Parties) demurred to the Fourth Cause of Action in the SAC.
On May 28, 2024, Plaintiff opposed the demurrer. On May 31, 2024, Moving
Parties replied. On the same date, Jorge filed a joinder to the demurrer. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
A
demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other
pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or
content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or
cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function
of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for
purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are
assumed to be true. (Id.) 
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,
supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be
considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,
881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting
demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co.
(1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal
v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider
contents of release not part of court record].) 
A
demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete
or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of
the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are
incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a
superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189
Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90
Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and
accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as surplusage the
pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”]) 
A
demurrer can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of
Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108
Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)            
DISCUSSION           
            Meet and Confer 
            Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a), Moving Parties were required to meet and confer telephonically
or in person before bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd.
(a).) The Court finds Moving Parties’ meet-and-confer efforts to be
insufficient, as the declaration of Michelle Leight fails to indicate whether
the parties met and conferred telephonically or in person. (Leight Decl., ¶ 2,
subds. (a), (b).) The declaration also is a Judicial Council form that requires
the declarant to select either subdivision (a) or (b), not both as Moving
Parties’ counsel did here. (Id.) The Court further notes that it admonished
Ms. Leight regarding this very issue for Moving Parties’ prior demurrer. (Order
re Tentative Ruling (2/27/24).) Nevertheless, the Court may not overrule a
demurrer for failure to adequately meet and confer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41,
subd. (a)(4).) The Court will still consider the demurrer, but admonishes Ms.
Leight to comply with the requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure going
forward. 
Financial Elder Abuse - Grosac Stock Certificates
“Financial
abuse” of an elder or dependent adult occurs when a person or entity does any
of the following: 
(1)
Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains real or personal property of
an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with intent to defraud, or
both. 
(2)
Assists in taking, secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining real or
personal property of an elder or dependent adult for a wrongful use or with
intent to defraud, or both. 
(3)
Takes, secretes, appropriates, obtains, or retains, or assists in taking,
secreting, appropriating, obtaining, or retaining, real or personal property of
an elder or dependent adult by undue influence, as defined in Section 15610.70. 
(Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.30, subd.
(a).) 
Elder abuse claims are statutory causes of action and
therefore must be pleaded with particularity. (See Covenant Care, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790, citing Lopez v. Southern Cal.
Rapid Trans. Dist. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 780, 795). 
Moving Parties demur to the Fourth Cause of Action in
the FAC on the grounds that it fails to state a cause of action for financial
elder abuse. More specifically, they contend the FAC fails to allege that
Grosac stock certificates were ever issued. Moving Parties contend that
Plaintiff’s allegations regarding Defendants’ alleged refusal to return
Plaintiff’s physical Grosac stock certificates is conclusory and that the SAC
does not allege Plaintiff suffered any harm as a result of the alleged
misappropriation or retention of the Grosac stock certificates, such as
dividends issued to Defendants but not to Plaintiff. 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff disputes Moving Parties’ contentions regarding the Grosac
stock certificates, contending that the SAC alleges Grosac was authorized to
issue stock, that Plaintiff acquired Grosac stock by gift and by an investment
of $50,000, that Plaintiff and Grosac agreed to Plaintiff acquiring a 25%
ownership interest in Grosac, that Plaintiff did not receive any Grosac stock
certificates, that Plaintiff asked Defendants for her Grosac stock certificates
long ago, and that Defendants wrongfully withheld and retained Plaintiff’s
stock certificates. Plaintiff contends the SAC need not expressly allege the
existence of the stock certificates, but that their existence is implicit from
the SAC’s allegations. Plaintiff cites to other allegations from the SAC to
show it sufficiently alleged a claim for financial elder abuse. 
            Plaintiff
further contends the SAC alleges facts demonstrating Plaintiff’s alleged harm
with respect to the stock certificates, as they are legal proof of stock
ownership, which Plaintiffs needs to do anything with her stock, and obtains no
benefit without them. Plaintiff contends Defendants converted both the stock
itself and the stock certificates. Plaintiff contends it is undisputed that
Grosac stock has value and that the stock certificates therefore also have an
associated value, so Plaintiff is being harmed by the value of those stock
certificates. Plaintiff then contends the SAC alleges Plaintiff could have
otherwise sold her Grosac stock. Plaintiff also contends the SAC alleges she
was harmed in other ways, such as Defendants siphoning off to themselves and
their family members the dividends, profits, and distributions of excessive
compensation from Grosac and Mercado. 
The Court finds the SAC fails
to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of action for financial elder
abuse. First, the SAC lacks the specificity required
for a financial elder abuse claim. (See Covenant Care, Inc., supra, 32
Cal.4th at p. 790.) The SAC does not allege enough facts regarding the stock
certificates, such as when they were issued, their corresponding certificate
numbers, and when or how Plaintiff made the demand for those stock certificates.
(See SAC, ¶¶ 25, 59.) Additionally, Plaintiff’s arguments regarding Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153 (Tarmann)
and Daniels v. Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 1150 (Daniels) are inapposite because those cases involved
misrepresentation claims, not financial elder abuse claims. (See Tarmann,
supra, 2 Cal.App.4th at p. 158; Daniels, supra, 246 Cal.App.4th at
pp. 1166-1167.) 
Second, the SAC otherwise alleges in a conclusory
fashion that Defendants wrongfully took Plaintiff’s stock. (See SAC, ¶¶ 25, 59;
Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591 [a demurrer admits the truth
of properly pleaded factual allegations, not conclusions of law].) The SAC
fails to allege any specific facts regarding when and how Plaintiff’s stock was
taken and by whom. The SAC also fails to allege any specific facts regarding Richard,
Roberto, or Jorge’s siphoning of dividends, profits, and distributions, such as
the amounts at issue, when any dividends were declared or distributions were
made, when they were siphoned off, or how they were siphoned off. (See SAC, ¶¶ 33,
45.) Further, “the loss of corporate profits, revenues, or assets as
a result of negligent or intentional wrongdoing by a corporation's officers,
directors, or majority shareholders results in corporate injury, for which only
the corporation may sue to recover.” (Sole Energy Co. v. Petrominerals Corp.
(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 212, 230.) 
Third, the Court also finds that the SAC fails to
allege facts demonstrating Plaintiff suffered harm due to the alleged
withholding of Plaintiff’s stock certificates. Stock certificates are merely
evidence of ownership, and the rights to the stock may exist without the
certificates. (See Lowe v. Copeland (1932) 125 Cal.App. 315, 325 (Lowe) [“a
certificate is only evidence of ownership, which may exist without it…”]) Even
assuming for the sake of argument that Defendants did take Plaintiff’s stock
certificates or otherwise fail to produce them after being asked for them, it
is unclear how this constitutes harm for purposes of financial elder abuse
since Plaintiff’s rights would otherwise persist even if the stock certificates
were missing or destroyed. (See Id.; Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15610.30,
subd. (b); but see Lowe, supra, 125 Cal.App. at p. 325 [“a demand is
necessary to put a corporation in default for failure to deliver certificates
of stock where the right thereto has not been denied [citations]…”]) It is
equally unclear how these stock certificates or lack thereof would prevent
Plaintiff from selling her shares in Grosac. (See Id.) 
Fourth, Plaintiff does not necessarily have a
personal property right in the profits, dividends, or distributions of the
corporate Defendants here. “Shareholders do not own and have no right
to receive corporate profits, except in limited circumstances: ‘It is
fundamental, of course, that the corporation has a personality distinct from
that of its shareholders, and that the latter neither own the corporate
property nor the corporate earnings.’ [Citation.] Shareholders own stock in the
corporation, from which they derive income only upon liquidation of the
corporation or the declaration of a dividend by the corporate directors.
[Citation.]” (Sole Energy Co., supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at p. 229.) As
noted above, the SAC does not allege any specific distributions or dividends
having been made or declared, nor does it allege the corporate Defendants were
sold. (See SAC, ¶¶ 33, 45.) Thus, even assuming these
allegations to be true, they do not state a cause of action for financial elder
abuse. 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action
with leave to amend. 
            Financial
Elder Abuse – Mercado Latino 
Moving Parties also demur to the Fourth Cause of
Action in the SAC as to Mercado Latino on the grounds that it fails to state a
cause of action for financial elder abuse. In particular, Moving Parties
contend the SAC contains no allegations as to how Mercado Latino allegedly took
any of Plaintiff’s Grosac stock certificates, and that the allegations against
Mercado Latino are conclusory. 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends the SAC alleges
Defendants are controlling officers and directors of Mercado Latino and that
they are the ones who wrongfully retained Plaintiff’s property on behalf of
Mercado Latino. Plaintiff contends that the SAC needs only to allege that
Mercado Latino assisted Defendants in their alleged wrongdoing. Plaintiff
contends that exacting particularity of alleged facts is not required when the
Defendants already have the relevant information since Plaintiff alleges she
has not been involved with Mercado Latino since 2018. Plaintiff further
disputes the legal authorities Moving Parties cited in their demurrer,
contending that they do not rebut the rule regarding the relaxation of pleading
requirements when the defendants already have the knowledge. 
The Court finds the SAC fails to allege sufficient
facts to state a cause of action against Mercado Latino for financial elder
abuse. As noted above, the Court finds the SAC fails to allege facts with
sufficient particularity to state a cause of action for financial elder abuse. (See
Covenant Care, Inc., supra, 32 Cal.4th at p. 790.) As also noted above,
the Tarmann and Daniels cases apply to misrepresentation claims,
not financial elder abuse claims, so the heightened pleading requirement applies
here. (See Tarmann, supra, 2 Cal.App.4th at p. 158; Daniels, supra, 246
Cal.App.4th at pp. 1166-1167.) 
Moreover, it is not enough that the individual
Defendants here may also be officers and directors of Mercado Latino. (See SAC,
¶ 30.) “[A] principal
may be liable
for the wrongful conduct
of its agent, even if that conduct
is criminal,
in one of three ways: (1) if
the principal directly
authorizes ... [the tort or] crime
to be committed, (2) if the agent commits the
tort in the scope of his employment and in performing service on behalf of the
principal, or (3) if the principal ratifies its agent's conduct after the fact
by ... voluntar[ily] elect[ing] to adopt the [agent's] conduct ... as its own…”
(Doe v. Roman Cath. Archbishop of Los Angeles (2016) 247
Cal.App.4th 953, 969, internal citations and quotation marks omitted.) The SAC contains no factual allegations showing that the
individual Defendants were directly authorized by Mercado Latino, that they
were acting in the scope of their employment, or that Mercado Latino ratified
their conduct in connection with Defendants allegedly taking Plaintiff’s stock,
certificates, or the dividends. (See SAC, ¶¶ 56-67.) It also does not make
sense how the individual Defendants allegedly siphoning off Mercado Latino’s funds
in any way supports Plaintiff’s allegations that Mercado Latino participated in
wrongfully taking Plaintiff’s Grosac stock and stock certificates, as Plaintiff
contends. (See SAC, ¶¶ 33, 59; Opp., 8:8-21.) 
Furthermore, Plaintiff’s citation to Klein v.
Oakland Raiders (1989) 211 Cal.App.3d 67 is distinguishable because that
case involved the opposite situation, i.e., imposing liability against the
individual when the corporation was otherwise liable. (Id., at pp.
79-80.) Here, Plaintiff is attempting to hold Mercado Latino liable for the alleged
actions of the individual Defendants in connection with the Grosac stock
certificate issue, not hold Defendants liable for the alleged actions of Mercado
Latino. (See SAC, ¶¶ 56-67.) 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action
as to Mercado Latino without leave to amend. 
CONCLUSION           
The Court
SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action in the Second Amended
Complaint with 20 days’ leave to amend as to Richard, Roberto, Jorge, and
Grosac[1].
This is the last opportunity the Court will give Plaintiff to attempt to plead
this cause of action. 
The Court
SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action in the Second Amended
Complaint without leave to amend as to Mercado Latino. 
Moving Parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling and file
proof of service of same within five calendar days.


