  Case Number:  22STCP03824    Hearing Date:   October 23, 2024    Dept:  76             This
is a dispute between cousins over valuation of shares of a family-owned business.
Defendants Patrick Gogerchin, individually and as Trustee
of The Patrick Gogerchin Family Trust, and Bianca Gogerchin Kaveh move to quash
the business records subpoena served upon non-parties Neos Partners LLP and Peter
Jonna by Plaintiff. 
TENTATIVE RULING
            Defendants
Patrick Gogerchin, individually and as Trustee of The Patrick Gogerchin Family Trust,
and Bianca Gogerchin Kaveh’s motion to quash the
business records subpoena is GRANTED as to all categories of documents.
Defendants’ request for sanctions
pursuant to Civ. Proc. Code, § 1987.2 against Plaintiff Abbie Gougerchian and his
counsel Richard Stone is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $3,035. The Court finds
that the motion to motion was opposed without substantial justification. (Civ. Proc.
Code, § 1987.2(a).)  Sanctions are to be paid
to Defendants’ counsel within 20 days.
ANALYSIS
Discussion
Defendants Patrick Gogerchin, individually and as Trustee
of The Patrick Gogerchin Family Trust, and Bianca Gogerchin Kaveh move to quash
the business records subpoena served upon non-parties Neos Partners LLP and Peter
Jonna by Plaintiff.
            Civ.
Proc. Code § 1987.1(a) provides: “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of
. . . documents . . . at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion . .
. may make an order . . . directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions
as the court shall declare. . . .” (Civ. Proc. Code, § 1987.1.)  § 1987.1 does not contain a meet
and confer requirement.
            However,
case law has imposed the “good cause” requirement for subpoena document requests
propounded upon non-parties, that is, the propounding party must articulate specific
facts relating to each category of materials sought to justify production: 
In the course of the litigation, Thiem served
a subpoena under section 2020 on Calcor’s custodian of records demanding Calcor,
a nonparty and Thiem’s competitor, to, in effect, produce all materials in its possession
relating to gun mounts, going back nearly 10 years. The subpoena fails to identify
any specific document but merely describes broad categories of documents and other
materials. 


     (Calcor Space Facility v. Superior Court (1997)
53 Cal.App.4th 216, 219.)
Although the scope of civil discovery is
broad, it is not limitless. . . .  [Former]
Section 2031, subdivision (l), which applies to document production requests served
on a party, requires a  party seeking to compel
such production to “set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand . .
. .” (Italics in original.) Section 2020, the statute at issue, contains no such
specific requirement. However, since both sections are part of a single statutory
scheme, and since it is unlikely the Legislature intended to place greater burdens
on a nonparty than on a party to the litigation, we read a similar requirement into
the latter section.

(Calcor Space Facility, supra, 53 Cal.App.4th at 223-24.) 

Even were we to ignore that the statements purporting to justify an order compelling
Calcor to produce its documents and other materials are unverified, they still fail.
There is an absence of specific facts
relating to each category of materials sought to be produced; the justifications
offered for the production are mere generalities. The very vice of the
subpoena’s promiscuity is well illustrated by Thiem’s inability to provide focused, fact-specific justifications for its demands.
The noted generality of the subpoena’s definitions, instructions and categories
which merely add up to a demand Calcor produce everything in its possession having
anything to do with gun mounts, precludes Thiem from demonstrating any particular
item or category in fact constitutes or contains matter which “is itself admissible
in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.” (§ 2017, subd. (a).) The purported justification for imposing this great
burden on Calcor necessarily suffers from the same generality as the subpoena itself.


Although appellate courts have frequently stated “fishing expeditions” are permissible
in discovery, there is a limit. As noted in Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33
Cal. App. 4th 1539 [39 Cal. Rptr. 2d 896], “These rules are applied liberally in
favor of discovery ( Colonial Life & Accident Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1982)
31 Cal. 3d 785, 790), and (contrary to popular belief), fishing expeditions are
permissible in some cases.” (Id. at p. 1546.) However, early in the development
of our discovery law our Supreme Court recognized the limits on such “fishing expeditions.”
In Greyhound Corp. v. Superior Court (1961) 56 Cal. 2d 355 [15 Cal. Rptr. 90, 364
P.2d 266], the seminal case in California civil discovery, the court gave examples
of improper “fishing” “The method of ‘fishing’ may be, in a particular case, entirely improper
(i.e., insufficient identification of the requested information to acquaint the
other party with the nature of information desired, attempt to place the burden
and cost of supplying information equally available to both solely upon the adversary,
placing more burden upon the adversary than the value of the information warrants,
etc.). Such improper methods of ‘fishing’ may be (and should be) controlled by the
trial court under the powers granted to it by the statute.” ( Id. at pp. 384-385.)
The concerns for avoiding undue burdens on the “adversary” in the litigation expressed
in Greyhound apply with even more weight to a nonparty. 

Had the Greyhound court been able to anticipate the tremendous burdens promiscuous
discovery has placed on litigants and nonparties alike, it might well have taken
a stronger stand against such “fishing.” Greyhound’s optimism in noting the then
new discovery system would be “simple, convenient and inexpensive,” would “expedite
litigation,” and “expedite and facilitate both preparation and trial,” has certainly
proven to have been considerably off the mark. (56 Cal. 2d at p. 376.) 

The issues in this litigation may essentially be reduced to the question whether
Thiem’s work met Delco’s specifications. This may be determined without any reference
to the contract between Delco and Calcor or the specifications which are part of
that contract. Another issue which may exist is whether Delco may recover the excess
of the cost of the gun mounts procured from Calcor as damages for “cover” under
California Uniform Commercial Code section 2712. (See Gerwin v. Southeastern Cal.
Assn. of Seventh Day Adventists (1971) 14 Cal. App. 3d 209, 217-218 [92 Cal. Rptr.
111].) If so, differences in specifications issued to Thiem and to Calcor may be
relevant. However, discovery by Thiem from Delco should normally provide it with
this evidence. HN11As between parties to litigation and nonparties, the burden of
discovery should be placed on the latter only if the former do not possess the material
sought to be discovered. An exception to this may exist where a showing is made
the material obtained from the party is unreliable and may be subject to impeachment
by material in possession of the nonparty. Thiem has not even attempted to demonstrate
why it cannot obtain the needed materials from Delco or why such materials might
be unreliable. 


(Calcor Space Facility, supra, 53 Cal.App.4th at 224-25 [bold emphasis
and underlining added].) 
The subpoena seeks
production of the following business records from Peter Jonna or Custodian of Records
for Neos Partners, LP. (Declaration of James M. Kilkowski, Exh. A.) 
BUSINESS RECORDS TO
BE PRODUCED: 
1. Produce all DOCUMENTS,
including all ESI, except for communications between YOU and YOUR attorney, or YOUR
attorneys, relating to YOUR acquisition of MGM TRANSFORMER.  
2. Produce all DOCUMENTS,
including all ESI, relating to YOUR communications with MGM TRANSFORMER within the
preceding 48-months.
3. Produce all DOCUMENTS,
including all ESI, relating to any payments YOU have made to MGM TRANSFORMER within
the preceding 48-months from the date of this subpoena, or plan to make to MGM TRANSFORMER
today or in the future, including negotiated checks (front and rear images), deposit
slips (front and rear images) and ACH and/or wire-transfer requests and confirmations.  
            The
Court notes that the operative 1AC does not mention Peter Jonna or Neos Partners,
LP. The 1AC only mentions MGM Transformer as background facts in the history between
Plaintiff and Uncle Al Googerchian. The basis of the 1AC is the breach of an agreement
between Plaintiff and Defendants that Defendants would sell their respective minority
interests back to the entities and Plaintiff would authorize and vote for the repurchase
of those interests. The gist of Defendants’ breach is the failure of their appraiser
to correctly determine the market value of Defendants’ respective minority interests
for the repurchase price.
            Exhibit 1 to
the 1AC does not mention MGM Transformer as an entity relevant to the agreement.
Indeed, ¶ 27 alleges that the entities involved in the agreement were Powerco and
APB Broadway.
            In this regard,
Plaintiff has not made a fact-specific showing of good cause for production of the
requested documents pertaining to Neos Partners, LP.’s acquisition of MGM Transformer.
Plaintiff’s claim that the documents sought could show how Patrick conducted himself
in other sales of partnership-related assets, how Patrick disposed of 
partnership-related assets that Plaintiff holds and interest,
and representations Patrick made to MGM regarding the ownership of MGM and whether,
or not, Patrick disclosed to Neos Plaintiff’s interest in the company (Opp. Page
7:24 – 8:2) are not relevant to the theories of liability set forth in the 1AC.
Nor does Plaintiff articulate potential issues to which the discovery is relevant.
Relevancy of the
subject matter is determined by the potential as well as actual issues in the case
(citation omitted); discovery is proper if it would be material to any possible
issue raised by new allegations in an amended complaint (citations omitted).
(Union Mut.
Life Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1978) 80 Cal.App.3d 1, 10.)
Further, Defendants assert the right
of privacy in these documents. The California Supreme Court has held that a compelling interest or compelling need is not always required in order to discover private information—the Court
must consider the factors articulated in Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic
Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1 to determine the seriousness of the privacy invasion
and the strength of the countervailing interest required to overcome that invasion.
(Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531.)
In ruling upon a privacy objection
in the contact of discovery, the party asserting a privacy right must establish
a legally protected privacy interest. (Williams,
supra, 3 Cal.5th at 552.) The party asserting a privacy right must also establish
an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given circumstances. (Id.) Further, the party asserting a privacy
right must establish a threatened intrusion that is serious. (Id.) 
The Court need not proceed to the fourth step of balancing competing interests
if all three of the above are not satisfied. (Id. at 555.) If the Court reaches the fourth step, the Court must balance
these competing considerations: The party seeking information may raise whatever
legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure serves.  (Id.
at 552.) The party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve
the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy.  (Id.)
Courts may not require the party seeking discovery to demonstrate a “compelling
state interest” or “compelling need[1]“
simply because discovery of any facially private information is sought.  (Id.
at 556-57.)
Although it is arguable whether a corporation
or other artificial entity may have the necessary standing to assert a constitutional
right to privacy, some privacy rights even for such an artificial entity are recognized
by the law: “ ‘Although corporations
have a lesser right to privacy than human beings and are not entitled to claim a
right to privacy in terms of a fundamental right, some right to privacy exists.
Privacy rights accorded artificial entities are not stagnant, but depend on the
circumstances. [Citation] … “However, we think one cannot draw a bright line at
the corporate structure. The public attributes of corporations may indeed reduce
pro tanto the reasonability of their expectation of privacy, but the nature and purposes of the corporate entity
and the nature of the interest sought to be protected will determine the question
whether under given facts the corporation per se has a protectible privacy interest.
…” [Citation.] [¶] It is clear to us that the law is developing in the direction
that the strength of the privacy right being
asserted by a nonhuman entity depends on the circumstances. Two critical factors are the strength of the
nexus between the artificial entity and human beings and the context in which the
controversy arises.’ (Roberts v. Gulf Oil Corp., supra, 147 Cal. App. 3d at
pp. 796–797.)” ( Ameri-Medical Corp., supra, 42 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1287–1288.)
 
(Hecht, Solberg, Robinson, Goldberg & Bagley
LLP v. Superior Court (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 579, 593-97 [bold emphasis added].)
Under the Williams
balancing test, while Defendants have not demonstrated a strong privacy interest
on the part of the entity Neos Partners, there is at least some privacy interest
in its financial matters. (See SCC Acquisitions,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2015)
243 Cal. App. 4th 741, 754-55.) While the intrusion to be made by the subpoena is
not that serious, Plaintiff does not articulate any legitimate and important countervailing
interests disclosure serves, especially given the absence of a showing of good cause. 
As such, the motion to quash the business records
subpoena is GRANTED as to all categories of documents. Defendants’ request for sanctions
pursuant to Civ. Proc. Code, § 1987.2 against Plaintiff Abbie Gougerchian and his
counsel Richard Stone is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $3,035 (5 hours at $595/hour
plus $60 filing fee—Kilkowski Decl.,. ¶ 8.) The Court finds that the motion to motion
was opposed without substantial justification. (Civ. Proc. Code, § 1987.2(a).)  Sanctions are to be paid to Defendants’ counsel
within 20 days.


