  Case Number:  19VECV01817    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  W  maly, et al. V. harrison, ET AL.
 
Motion to Strike
 
Date of Hearing:          December
5, 2023                  Trial Date:       June
3, 2024
Department:               W                                             Case
No.:         19VECV01817
 
Moving
Party:             Plaintiffs Farzin Maly
and Bahareh Mohammadzadeh Moghaddam
Responding Party:       None  
Meet and Confer:       None
filed.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On December 20, 2019, Plaintiffs Farzin Maly and Bahareh
Mohammadzadeh Moghaddam filed a complaint against Defendants Brett C. Harrison
aka Brett Christian Harrison; BCH Enterprises, LLC; Tryston Harrison; Re/Max
Olson & Associates; David Thomas Lloyd; Center Street Lending Fund IV Spe,
LLC; Bagnard Company, LLC; CT Lien Solutions; Mario Simone; The Turoci Firm,
Inc.; BM Stewardship Inv., LLC; Prominence Capital Partners, LLC, and Charles
Ockwell.
 
On November 2, 2020, Plaintiffs filed a second amended
complaint alleging causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Specific
Performance; (3) Fraud; (4) Conversion; (5) Violation of Penal Code section
496; (6) Quiet Title; (7) Breach of Fiduciary Duties; and (8) Negligence.
Plaintiff also named XQB Management, Inc. and Twisted River Capital, LLC as
additional defendants.
 
On April 27, 2021, defendants Brett C. Harrison, BCH
Enterprises, LLC, and Twisted River Capital filed their joint answer to the
second amended complaint.
 
On June 9, 2023, the court granted Counsel Richard M.
Hoefflin’s motion to be relieved as counsel for Defendants/Cross-Complainants
BCH Enterprises, LLC, Twisted River Capital, and Brett C. Harrison.
 
On March 28, 2023, the court granted defendants XQB
Management, Inc., Tryston Harrison and David Thomas Lloyd’s Motion for Judgment
on the Pleadings with leave to amend.
 
On May 24, 2023, Plaintiffs filed their third amended
complaint in which the fourth cause of action for conversion and the fifth
cause of action for violation of Penal Code § 496 were amended.
 
On September 28, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the instant Motion
to Strike the Answer filed by BCH Enterprises, LLC and Twisted River Capital,
LLC to the Second Amended Complaint and to Enter Default Against Brett Harrison
as to the Third Amended Complaint.
 
No opposition has been filed. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
1.     
Plaintiffs Farzin Maly and Bahareh
Mohammadzadeh Moghaddam’s Motion to Strike the Answer filed by BCH Enterprises,
LLC and Twisted River Capital, LLC to the Second Amended Complaint and to Enter
Default Against Brett Harrison as to the Third Amended Complaint is GRANTED in
part as to the request to strike the answer filed by defendants BCH
Enterprises, LLC and Twisted River Capital, LLC. The motion is denied as to the
remainder without prejudice. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Motion
to Strike to the Answer filed by Defendants BCH
Enterprises, LLC and Twisted River Capital, LLC
 
Here,
Plaintiffs seek to strike the answer filed by defendants
BCH Enterprises, LLC and Twisted River Capital, LLC on the ground that they are
unrepresented corporate defendants that are also suspended. (Motion at pp. 5-6;
Gaumer Decl. ¶ 8, Exh. 1.)    
 
A court may strike any “irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading” or all or any part of a pleading “not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) “The grounds for a motion to strike shall
appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the
court is required to take judicial notice.” ( CCP § 437.)  
 
Based on the evidence presented, the court finds that
defendants BCH Enterprises, LLC and Twisted River Capital, LLC have been
unrepresented by counsel since June 9, 2023. 
under a long-standing common law rule of procedure, a corporation,
unlike a natural person, cannot represent itself before courts of record in
propria persona, nor can it represent itself through a corporate officer,
director or other employee who is not an attorney. It must be represented by
licensed counsel in proceedings before courts of record.” (CLD Construction,
Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1145.) Because
no opposition has been filed, there is no indication that these corporate
defendants have taken any steps to retain new counsel. 
 
Because defendants BCH Enterprises, LLC and Twisted River
Capital, LLC have failed to retain new counsel for over five months, the court
finds striking their answer appropriate.
 
 
 
 
Request for Entry of Default against Defendant Brett
Harrison
 
Next, Plaintiffs request the Court to enter default against
defendant Brett Harrison based on his failure to file an answer to the Third
Amended Complaint. (Motion at pg. 7.) 
 
¿“It is well established that an amendatory pleading
supersedes the original one, which ceases to perform any function as a
pleading.” (State Comp. Ins. Fund v. Superior Court (2010) 184
Cal.App.4th 1124, 1130.) Further, “If the complaint is amended … [t]he
defendant shall answer the amendments, or the complaint as amended…” (CCP § 471.5.)  Nevertheless, as a matter of law, the entry
of default is erroneous where a “defendant’s original answer could stand as an
answer to the amended complaint.” (Carrasco v. Craft (1985) 164
Cal.App.3d 796, 810.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs filed their third amended complaint on May
24, 2023, and it was served on defendant Brett Harrison on the same date via
email. (Motion at pg. 7; see Proof of Service Attached to Third Amended
Complaint.) Importantly, Plaintiffs fail to show how the third amended
complaint has been revised to the point where the causes of action have been
changed or affect the issues raised in the second amended complaint that would
render defendant Brett Harrison’s prior answer no longer applicable. (See Carrasco,
supra, 164 Cal.App.3d at pg. 810.)
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs request for entry of default against
defendant Brett Harrison is denied without prejudice. 