 Case Number:  21STCV06963    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June 1, 2024               TRIAL DATE: NOT
SET
                                                           
CASE:                         Griffin M. Bracci v. Orion Housing, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV06963            
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Orion Housing, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Griffin
M. Bracci
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of contract that was filed on February 23,
2021. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant failed to provide proper notice of
construction on the property which Plaintiff was leasing from Defendant,
denying Plaintiff the full use of that property. 
 
Plaintiff moves for summary
judgment or summary adjudication of all causes of action. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
            Plaintiff’s
Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.  
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion for Summary Judgment
 
            Plaintiff
moves for summary judgment.
 
            As
Plaintiff has demonstrated entitlement to summary adjudication of both causes
of action for the reasons stated below, Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment
is GRANTED. 
 
//
 
Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
            Plaintiff
moves for summary adjudication of both causes of action asserted in the
Complaint. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment “is to provide
courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th
826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the
trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all
inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other
inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler
v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) Once the moving party has met that burden, section
437c shifts the burden to the opposing party to show that a triable issue of
one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto. If the opposing party cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.
(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463,
467.) 
 
When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the Court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers, except evidence to
which the Court has sustained an objection, as well as all reasonable
inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment. (Ibid.)   
 
Request
for Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiff requests that the Court
take judicial notice of its July 19, 2023 order deeming the truth of the
matters stated in Plaintiff’s Requests for Admissions. Plaintiff’s request is
GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d) (court records). 
 
First Cause of Action: Breach of Implied Covenant of Good
Faith and Fair Dealing
 
            Plaintiff
moves for summary adjudication of the first cause of action for breach of the
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.
 
             “There is an implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing in every contract that neither party will do anything which
will injure the right of the other to receive the benefits of the agreement.” (Comunale
v. Traders & General Ins. Co. (1958) 50 Cal.2d 654, 658 [internal
citations omitted].) “The covenant of good faith and fair dealing, implied by
law in every contract, exists merely to prevent one contracting party from
unfairly frustrating the other party’s right to receive the benefits of the
agreement actually made. The covenant thus cannot ‘ “ ‘be endowed with an
existence independent of its contractual underpinnings.’ ” ’ It cannot impose
substantive duties or limits on the contracting parties beyond those
incorporated in the specific terms of their agreement.” (Guz v. Bechtel
National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 349-350 [internal citations omitted,
emphasis in original].) 
 
            Plaintiff
frames his allegations as premised on a violation of the implied covenant of
quiet enjoyment. This covenant is implied in every lease agreement and
“insulates the tenant against any act or omission on the part of the landlord,
or anyone claiming under him, which interferes with a tenant’s right to use and
enjoy the premises for the purposes contemplated by the tenancy.” (Ginsberg
v. Gamson (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 873, 896.) In the context of a lease, the
two covenants overlap to impose similar duties of care. (Andrews v. Mobile
Aire Estates (2005) 125 Cal.App.4th 578, 589.) However, as the Complaint
specifically alleges a breach of the implied covenant of good faith,
which requires a showing that the actions complained of were objectively
unreasonable or that the Defendant subjectively lacked belief in the validity
of its conduct. (Moore v. Wells Fargo Bank N.A. (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th
280, 291-92.) 
 
            Plaintiff
contends, based on matters deemed admitted by Defendant, that the parties
entered into a valid lease agreement on August 1, 2020. (SSUMF No. 3.) Based on
the matters admitted, Defendant never notified plaintiff of its intent to
demolish a part of the property before beginning construction and rescinded
Plaintiff’s ability to use his parking spot, which was a material term of the
lease. (SSUMF Nos. 4, 6, 8.) As these are matters which have been deemed
admitted by the Court’s July 19, 2023 order, Plaintiff has demonstrated
objectively unreasonable conduct which deprived Plaintiff of the benefit of his
lease agreement. Plaintiff declares that he suffered $64,484 in damages from
Defendant’s conduct. (SSUMF No. 14.) As Defendant has not responded to this
motion, Plaintiff is entitled to summary adjudication on this cause of action. 
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED as to the first cause of
action. 
 
Second Cause of Action: Breach of Contract
 
            Plaintiff
moves for summary adjudication of the second cause of action for breach of
contract. 
 
            To prevail
on a claim for breach of contract, a plaintiff must plead and prove (1) a
contract; (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) the
defendant’s breach; and (4) resultant damage to the plaintiff. (Careau &
Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371,
1388.) 
 
            Plaintiff
contends that the parties entered into a valid lease agreement in April of 2020
(SSUMF No. 3), Plaintiff paid all rent due under the contract. (SSUMF No. 10.)
and Defendant breached a material term of the contract by depriving him of the
use of his parking spot. (SSUMF No. 6.) Plaintiff declares that he suffered
$64,484 in damages from Defendant’s conduct. (SSUMF No. 14.) As Defendant has
not responded to the motion, the Court finds that Plaintiff has demonstrated
that Defendant cannot prevail on this claim, and Defendant has not demonstrated
a triable issue of fact as to this cause of action. 
 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is GRANTED as to the second cause
of action.
 
Attorney’s Fees
 
            Plaintiff
also requests attorney’s fees on this action. Plaintiff cites no authority authorizing
a request for attorney’s fees as part of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication, and the Court declines to consider that issue in
connection with this motion. If Plaintiff seeks an award of attorney’s fees,
that request should be brought as a separately noticed motion. 
 
CONCLUSION:

 
            Accordingly,
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.  
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  June 11, 2024                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 