 Case Number:  21STCV03253    Hearing Date:   June 11, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     June 11, 2024             TRIAL DATE: July
9, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Martel D. Walker et al v. Avalon
Hollywood GP, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV03253            
 
MOTION
FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant Avalonbay Communities, Inc., Avalon
Hollywood GP, LLC, and Avalon Hollywood LP.
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiffs Martel
Walker and Lindsay Gold, in pro per
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
01/27/21: Complaint filed.
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for breach of a rental lease contract, breach of the
implied warranty of habitability, fraud, and negligence.
 
Defendants move for judgment on the
pleadings. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Defendants’ Motion for Judgment on
the Pleadings is GRANTED with leave to amend as to all causes of action
except the seventh cause of action. Defendants’ Motion is GRANTED without leave
to amend as to the seventh cause of action. 
 
Plaintiffs shall have 30 days leave
to amend the Complaint with respect to the remaining causes of action. 
 
DISCUSSION: 
 
            Defendants move for judgment on the
pleadings.
 
//
 
Legal Standard
 
A motion for judgment on the
pleadings is the functional equivalent of a general demurrer.  (Lance Camper Mfg. Corp. v. Republic
Indemnity Co. of Am. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 194, 198).  Like demurrers, motions for judgment on the
pleadings challenge the legal sufficiency of the allegations, not their
veracity.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins.
Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994). Any defects must either appear on the
face of the pleading, or else be taken by judicial notice.  (Bezirdjian v. O'Reilly (2010) 183 Cal.App.4th
316, 321-22).  The parties’ ability to
prove their respective claims is of no concern. 
(Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995,
99.)  Though the Court must accept the
allegations of the complaint and answer as true (Gerawan Farming, Inc. v.
Lyons (2000) 24 Cal.4th 468, 515), it will not do so for “conclusions of
law or fact, opinions, speculation, or allegations contrary to law or
[judicially noticed] facts…” (Stevenson Real Estate Servs., Inc. v. CB
Richard Ellis Real Estate Servs., Inc. (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1215,
1219-20).
 
Meet and Confer
 
Before filing a motion for judgment
on the pleadings, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who has filed the pleading subject to the motion for
judgment on the pleadings and file a declaration detailing their meet and
confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 439(a).) However, an insufficient
meet and confer process is not grounds to grant or deny a motion for
judgment on the pleadings. (Code Civ. Proc., § 439(a)(4).)
 
The Declaration of Laura Williams,
attorney for Defendants, states that she attempted to contact Plaintiffs via
email on March 27, 2024, and via telephone on March 28 and April 1, 2024, to no
avail. (Declaration of Laura C. Williams ISO Mot. ¶¶ 4-6.) The Court therefore
finds that Defendants have satisfied their statutory meet-and-confer
obligation. 
 
Timing
 
           A
motion for judgment on the pleadings may be brought by a defendant at any time
after the time to demur has expired and an answer has been filed. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 438(f)). Unless a court orders otherwise, a motion for judgment on the
pleadings may not be made after entry of a pre-trial conference order, (Cal.
Rules of Court 3.720-3.730) or 30 days before the initial trial date, whichever
is later. (Code Civ. Proc. § 438(e). No pre-trial conference order was entered
in this case. Further, although the motion was filed well after the original
October 31, 2023 trial date, this motion was filed and scheduled by order of
the Court. (April 24, 2024 Minute Order.) The motion is therefore timely. 
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendants
request that the Court take judicial notice that Plaintiffs’ current address is
6263 Topanga Canyon Blvd, Apt. 723, Woodland Hills, CA 91367, as set forth in
their September 10, 2023 Informal Discovery Conference Statement. (RJN Exh. 1.)
The Court does not take judicial notice of this conclusion but does take
judicial notice of the existence of the document, including the presence of
that address, pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d) (court records). Defendant’s
request is therefore GRANTED to the extent described here. 
 
Plaintiffs’ Untimely and Overlength Opposition
 
            Defendants
object to Plaintiffs’ opposition to this motion as untimely and overlength. An
opposition to a regularly noticed motion must be filed and served nine court
days before the date of the scheduled hearing. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1005(b).)
Further, an opposition memorandum may not exceed fifteen pages, excluding
exhibits, declarations, or attachments, and must include a table of contents
and authorities if it exceeds ten pages. (Cal. Rules of Court Rule 3.1113(d),
(f).) A memorandum which exceeds the page limit of the Rules of Court must be
considered in the same manner as a late-filed paper. (Id. Rule
3.1113(g).) The Court has discretion to reject late-filed papers. (Rancho
Mirage Country Club Homeowners Ass’n v. Hazelbaker (2016) 2 Cal.App.5th
252, 262.) 
 
            The Court
is not inclined to reject Plaintiffs’ opposition as untimely where, first,
there was ambiguity as to whether Defendants had properly served the Plaintiffs
as self-represented litigants (see May 31, 2024 Minute Order), second, the
hearing has been continued to June 11, 2024, thereby rendering the opposition
timely, and, third, Defendants’ reply was itself filed only four court days
before the hearing, rather than the five required by statute. (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 1005(b).) Moreover, the length of Plaintiffs’ response does not appear to
have prejudiced Defendants in preparing their reply, which dismisses the
opposition as merely regurgitating the allegations in the Complaint that
Defendants contend are insufficient. The Court will therefore consider the
opposition on its merits. 
 
Scope of Pleadings
 
            Plaintiffs’
Complaint, taking advantage of its nature as an electronic filing, relies
extensively on hyperlinks to various documents, including photographs
(Complaint ¶ 1), emails (¶ 23) and other “explanatory addenda,” including video
links (Complaint p.4:16.) It is well-settled that the “face of the Complaint”
on which a demurrer or motion for judgment on the pleadings must turn includes
exhibits attached to the pleading and incorporated by reference. (E.g., Frantz
v. Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94.) However, the bulk of these
authorities predate the proliferation of electronic records in judicial
proceedings, and none of them speak to circumstances where the documents are
not attached in the same manner as in a physical document. Thus, the propriety
of the hyperlinks in Plaintiffs’ Complaint appears to be an issue of first
impression. 
 
            Defendants
argue that the materials provided in the hyperlinks should not be considered
because they are unsubstantiated, irrelevant, and, in two instances, lead to
active Google Documents (the “Factual Background” and “Critical Explanatory
Addendum to Factual Background”) which can be altered at any time without leave
of Court. While there is nothing in the record that suggests any such mischief
has occurred, the Court shares Defendants’ view that such links, which are
perishable or malleable, are fundamentally different in kind from attached
hard-copy documents which are integrated into the pleading itself and are
therefore part of the “face of the pleading.” The Court therefore considers the
hyperlinked materials to be extrinsic evidence which cannot be considered in
ruling on a motion for judgment on the pleadings. 
 
First Cause of
Action: Breach of Contract
 
            Defendants contend that Plaintiffs’
first cause of action for breach of contract fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
 
To state a cause of action for
breach of contract, a plaintiff must plead the contract, the plaintiff’s
performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, Defendant’s breach,
and the resulting damage. (Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co. (1985)
166 Cal.App.3d 452, 458.) Further, the complaint must indicate whether the
contract is written, oral, or implied by conduct. (Code Civ.Proc. § 430.10(g).)
General allegations stating that defendants violated a contract are
insufficient, and plaintiffs must state facts showing a breach. (Levy v.
State Farm Mutual Automobile Ins. Co. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1, 5-6.) For
breach of a written contract, the essential terms must be set out verbatim in
the body of the complaint or a copy of the written instrument must be attached
and incorporated by reference. (Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co.,
supra, 166 Cal.App.3d at 459.) However, a plaintiff may plead the legal
effect of the contract rather than its precise language. (Construction
Protective Services, Inc. v. Tig Specialty Insurance (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189,
198-99.) 
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs
have not clearly set forth the terms of the contract or contracts under which
this cause of action is brought and do not clearly allege an injury from the
conduct which they claim is wrongful. Defendants state that the Complaint
alleges that Plaintiffs entered into two lease agreements for an apartment at
the AVA Hollywood; one on July 4, 2020 (Complaint ¶¶ 12, 17-18, 22), and a
second lease on July 8, 2020, under which Plaintiffs accepted possession of the
unit at issue. (Complaint ¶¶ 13, 104.) The July 4 lease appears to be the
destination of one of the hyperlinks included in the Complaint, but the Court
does not consider this document for the reasons stated above. Aside from that
link, the only portion of either lease agreement set forth in the Complaint is
in paragraph 68, which states that “Section 5 of the Residential lease
agreement states: “you may move into the apartment on or after the date set
forth in the summary.” (Complaint ¶ 68.) While the Complaint alleges putative
breaches of the contracts by failing to turn over the apartment keys to
Plaintiffs (¶ 22) and refusing to remedy HVAC and moisture control defects in
the apartment (¶¶ 137-39), without the terms of the contract, it is not
possible to determine whether these actions could constitute a breach.
Likewise, the Court cannot assess the sufficiency of the contention that
Plaintiffs performed their obligations under the contract. (See Complaint ¶¶
55-58). This could be remedied, of course, by attaching a pdf of the relevant
contract, but that is not part of the current complaint.
 
Defendants also separately argue
that Plaintiffs have not properly alleged damages caused by any breach of
contract. In response, Plaintiffs cite extrinsic documents, including
hyperlinked materials referenced in the Complaint, none of which is relevant at
this stage. The allegations within the body of the Complaint which Plaintiffs
cite reference a non-specific but serious decline in Plaintiffs’ health and
general allegations that Plaintiff’s injuries and damages include medicals
expenses incurred, emotional distress, and “certain other incidental and
consequential expenses and losses.”  (Complaint
¶¶ 137, 148-150.) While these are broad allegations of damage, Plaintiffs are
under no obligation to offer specific descriptions of their medical, emotional,
and economic injuries, which are matters that can be fleshed out in
discovery.  The Court finds, therefore,
that Plaintiffs’ allegations of damages suffered are sufficient to withstand
Defendants’ motion.  
 
The Court therefore concurs with
Defendants that the Complaint does not adequately set forth the terms of the
operative contract nor does it include a copy of the contract. Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED as to the first
cause of action. 
 
Second Cause of Action: Implied Warranty of Habitability
 
            Defendants
contend that Plaintiffs have failed to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action for breach of the implied warranty of habitability. 
 
The elements of a cause of action
for breach of the implied warranty of habitability “are the existence of a
material defective condition affecting the premises' habitability, notice to
the landlord of the condition within a reasonable time after the tenant's
discovery of the condition, the landlord was given a reasonable time to correct
the deficiency, and resulting damages.” (Erlach v. Sierra Asset Servicing,
LLC (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1281, 1297.)
 
Defendants argue that the Complaint
is insufficiently pled with respect to this cause of action because it does not
set forth substantive facts demonstrating the existence of uninhabitable
conditions, that Defendants were given the opportunity to correct those
conditions, or what damages were incurred as a result. As Plaintiffs argue in
opposition, the Complaint references an independent inspection which identified
moisture control defects in the HVAC system and in openings under the kitchen
sink cabinet on November 2, 2020. (Complaint ¶ 139.) The Complaint also alleges
that Plaintiffs sent Defendants a 72-page fax and email three weeks before that
report raising concerns about unspecified habitability defects. (Id. ¶
137.) Construed in the light most favorable to Plaintiffs, these allegations
establish that Plaintiffs knew of or suspected the existence of these issues, gave
notice of those issues to Defendants on October 14, 2020, and subsequently
confirmed the existence of those issues with an independent report. However,
the Court concurs with Defendants that the Complaint does not allege facts showing
that the landlord had a reasonable time to correct those deficiencies. 
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED as to the second cause of action. 
 
Third Cause of Action: Unfair Business Practices
 
            Defendants
challenge the third cause of action for unfair competition under Business &
Professions Code section 17200 for failure to state facts sufficient to support
a claim. 
 
California Business and Professions Code § 17200 prohibits
any “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.” Ultimately, “an
‘unfair’ business practice occurs when that practice ‘offends an established
public policy or when the practice is immoral, unethical, oppressive,
unscrupulous or substantially injurious to consumers.” (Davis v. Ford Motor
Credit Co., LLC (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 581, 585.) “Unlawful” practices are
business practices forbidden by any law.” (Olszewski v. Scripps Health
(2003) 30 Cal.4th 798, 827.) “Unfair” practices must also be tethered to some underlying
constitutional, statutory, or regulatory provision. (Scripps Clinic v.
Superior Court (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 917, 940.) 
 
            Defendants
contend that the Complaint does not set forth with specificity any unfair or
unlawful practices and does not adequately allege fraud for the reasons
discussed infra. In opposition, Plaintiffs cite to a series of
conclusory allegations in the Complaint claiming that Defendants’ advertising
material is contradictory (Complaint ¶ 25), that Defendants’ agent was
dishonest in some unspecified manner (¶¶ 37, 42-43, 48), and that Defendants
intentionally misconstrued the meaning of requests and responded with
fraudulent misrepresentations (¶ 147.) These allegations are bare conclusions,
and do not contain facts sufficient to support a cause of action, especially as
regards a statutory claim which must be pled with specificity. (Covenant
Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790.) More detail is
required to clarify the specific business practices that are being challenged
as unlawful, unfair or fraudulent.
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED with respect to the
third cause of action. 
 
Fourth Cause of Action: Fraud
 
            Defendants
challenge the fourth cause of action for fraud for failure to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
            “The
elements of fraud that will lead to a tort action are: (a) misrepresentation;
(b) knowledge of falsity; (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d)
justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage. (Engalla v. Permanente
Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974.) Every element of the cause
of action for fraud must be alleged in the proper manner and the facts
constituting the fraud must be alleged with sufficient specificity to allow
defendant[s] to understand fully the nature of the charge made. (Stansfield
v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73.) “This particularity requirement
necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what
means the representations were tendered.” (Ibid.) “[G]eneral and
conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
 
            Defendants
contend that, although the Complaint describes numerous communications with
Defendants’ employees, nothing in the pleadings sets forth any
misrepresentations upon which Plaintiffs relied which caused any injury. In
opposition, Plaintiffs again extensively cite extrinsic evidence which cannot
be considered on this motion, or to allegations which assert that
communications were fraudulent without describing which portions of the
statements were false (¶¶ 51, 88, 96-102; 133, 142) or do not demonstrate
justifiable reliance to Plaintiffs’ detriment (e.g., ¶ 108.) The Court concurs
with Defendants that these allegations are not sufficient. The Complaint must
identify with specificity the statements that were made, who made those
statements, when, where, to whom, and by what means they were made, and must
allege which parts of the representations were false and how Plaintiffs relied
on them, and how they were injured by that reliance. Plaintiffs have not done
so. 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED as to the fourth
cause of action for fraud. 
 
Fifth Cause of Action: Premises Liability
 
            Defendants
challenge the fifth cause of action for premises liability for failure to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
            To state a
claim for premises liability, a plaintiff must plead a duty arising from the
defendant’s ownership or control of the premises, a breach of that duty, and
resultant injury. (See Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132,
1159.) 
 
            Defendants
contend that this cause of action is inadequately pled because the Complaint
pleads only the bare elements of this claim and a series of conclusions that Defendants
were informed of multiple structural and habitability concerns (¶ 135) which
would have been discovered by a good-faith inspection and maintenance effort
(¶¶ 136-37) and which can be attributed only to poor design construction,
installation, or maintenance. (Complaint ¶ 140.) Plaintiffs do not address this
argument in opposition beyond a bare assertion that they adequately pled the
elements of this claim. The Court is not persuaded. Plaintiffs have not
adequately alleged facts which demonstrate a duty arising from Defendants’
ownership, a breach of that duty, and resultant injury. Bare conclusions are
not facts. 
 
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED as to the fifth
cause of action. 
 
 
//
 
Sixth Cause of Action: Negligent
Hiring/Retention/Supervision
 
            Defendants also attack the sixth
cause of action for negligent hiring, retention, and supervision for failure to
state facts sufficient to constitute a claim.
 
            “Negligence liability will be
imposed on an employer if it ‘knew or should have known that hiring the
employee created a particular risk or hazard and that particular harm
materializes.’” (Phillips v. TLC Plumbing, Inc. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th
1133, 1139.) Liability for negligent supervision and/or retention of an
employee is one of direct liability for negligence, not vicarious liability.” (Delfino
v. Agilent Technologies, Inc. (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 790, 815.) “To
establish negligent supervision, a plaintiff must show that a person in a
supervisorial position over the actor had prior knowledge of the actor’s
propensity to do the bad act.” (Z.V. v. County of Riverside (2015)
238Cal.App.4th 889, 902.)
 
            Defendants contend that the
Complaint does not set forth any prior propensities or behaviors that would
create a risk of which Defendants should have been aware. In response,
Plaintiffs merely assert that the sixth cause of action pleads the required
elements of the claim. The Court does not share Plaintiffs’ view. The Complaint
is devoid of any allegations that could potentially establish a risk or hazard
created by hiring, retaining, or supervising an employee. Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED as to the sixth
cause of action.
 
Seventh Cause of
Action: Consumer Legal Remedies Act
 
            Defendants move for judgment on the
seventh cause of action for breach of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act for
failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. 
 
            The Consumer Legal Remedies Act
protects consumers from specified unfair business practices with respect to
goods and services. (Civ. Code § 1770(a).) “Goods” are defined as “tangible
chattels bought or leased for use primarily for personal, family, or household
purposes,” and “services” includes “work, labor, and services for other than a
commercial or business use.” (Civ. Code § 1761(a)-(b).) 
 
            Defendants contend that this cause
of action fails as a matter of law because the Complaint is premised on Defendants’
alleged bad acts concerning the lease and maintenance of Plaintiffs’ apartment,
i.e., real property, not a good or service. The Court concurs. The express
language of the Consumer Legal Remedies Act defines its applicable scope to
goods and services, where this case is grounded in Plaintiffs’ rights as to
real property. (See, e.g., Heckart v. A-1 Self Storage, Inc.
(2015) 243 Cal.App.4th 525, rev. granted and op. superseded sub nom. and aff'd,
Heckart v. A-1 Self Storage (2018) 4 Cal.5th 749.) Accordingly,
Defendants’ Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED as to the seventh
cause of action.
 
 
Eighth Cause of Action: Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress
 
            Defendants
challenge the eighth cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional
distress for failure to state facts sufficient to support a claim.
 
“The elements of the tort of intentional infliction of
emotional distress are:  ‘“(1)
extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing,
or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress;   (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional
distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by
the defendant’s outrageous conduct. …” Conduct to be outrageous must be so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.’ [Citation.]” (Citation omitted.) “It is not enough that the conduct
be intentional and outrageous. It must be conduct directed at the plaintiff, or occur in the presence of a plaintiff of whom the defendant
is aware.” 
 
(Catsouras v. Department of California Highway Patrol (2010)
181 Cal.App.4th 856, 874-875.) The defendant’s conduct must be “directed
primarily” at the plaintiffs, “calculated to cause them severe emotional
distress,” or “done with knowledge of their presence and of a substantial
certainty that they would suffer severe emotional injury.” (Christensen v.
Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 906.) 
 
            The Complaint alleges that Defendants
“refused to at first just have access to the premises” and then refused to
inspect, repair, and remediate the damages in the apartment and threatened
Plaintiffs when they complained. (Complaint ¶¶ 220-221.) Defendants contend
that this cause of action is deficient because the allegations asserted do not
establish extreme or outrageous conduct nor the requisite intent or reckless
disregard of the risk to Plaintiffs. In response, Plaintiffs again simply
recite the portion of the Complaint alleging the bare legal elements of this
cause of action. The Court agrees with Defendants that the Complaint, as pled,
does not demonstrate extreme and outrageous conduct nor requisite intent
because the body of the Complaint does not set forth in sufficient detail the
hazards in the apartment or the insufficient responses from Defendants.
Although it is not difficult for the Court to conceive of extreme and
outrageous conduct with reckless disregard towards causing emotional distress
in the context of a habitability action, greater clarity of facts is required
to support the contentions asserted in paragraphs 220 and 221. 
 
            Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED as to the eighth cause of action. 
 
Uncertainty
 
            Defendants also contend that the
entire Complaint is unintelligible and ambiguous and therefore uncertain. 
 
            Demurrers¿for
uncertainty are disfavored, because discovery can be used for clarification,
and they apply only where defendants cannot reasonably determine what issues or
claims are stated.¿(Chen v. Berenjian (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 811, 822; Khoury
v. Maly's of Cal., Inc.¿(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) If the complaint
is sufficiently comprehensible that Defendant can reasonably respond, the
complaint is not uncertain. (Mahan v. Charles W. Chan Ins. Agency, Inc.
(2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 841, 848 n.3.)  
 
            As should be apparent from the
Court’s analysis of each cause of action, the Complaint, though not artfully
pled, is not so vague or unintelligible that the individual claims asserted
against Defendants cannot be assessed. 
 
Leave to Amend
 
            When a
demurrer is sustained, the Court determines whether there is a reasonable possibility
that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal.3d 311, 318).  When a plaintiff “has pleaded the general set
of facts upon which his cause of action is based,” the court should give the
plaintiff an opportunity to amend his complaint, since plaintiff should not “be
deprived of his right to maintain his action on the ground that his pleadings
were defective for lack of particulars.” (Reed v. Norman (1957) 152
Cal.App.2d 892, 900.) Accordingly, California law imposes the burden on
the plaintiffs to demonstrate the manner in which they can amend their
pleadings to state their claims against a defendant.  (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) “Denial of leave to amend constitutes
an abuse of discretion unless the complaint shows on its face it is incapable
of amendment.  [Citation.]  Liberality in permitting amendment is the
rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given."
(Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.)
 
            Plaintiffs have not demonstrated how
the Complaint might be cured by amendment. That said, except for the seventh
cause of action, the deficiencies in the Complaint arise principally from the
lack of detail and clarity in the allegations set forth in the body of the
Complaint. Moreover, much of the materials included in the various hyperlinks are
documents and photographs which, had they been attached as exhibits to the
Complaint itself in the same manner as a physical document, might have bolstered
the allegations in the Complaint and resulted in a different outcome on this
motion. The means of correcting the deficiencies is therefore straightforward:
Plaintiffs should endeavor to clarify their allegations with greater
specificity and factual detail and include any critical documents, such as the
lease agreement, as attached exhibits, without overwhelming the pleadings with collateral
materials. The Court will therefore grant leave to amend as to these causes of
action.
 
            As to the seventh cause of action,
leave to amend is not proper because the Consumer Legal Remedies Act is neither
applicable nor relevant in the context of a habitability defect action. 
 
//
             
CONCLUSION:

 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for Judgment
on the Pleadings is GRANTED with leave to amend as to all causes of
action except the seventh cause of action. Defendants’ Motion is GRANTED without
leave to amend as to the seventh cause of action. 
 
Plaintiffs shall have 30 days leave
to amend the Complaint with respect to the remaining causes of action. 
 
Moving Parties to give notice.
            
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:  June 11, 2024                         ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 