 Case Number:  23STCV02134    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  78 


CHARLES
  BERNAL, et al.,
Plaintiff(s),
vs.
CHRISTOPHER
  MAGGIORE, et al.,
Defendant(s).


Case
  No.: 


23STCV02134




Hearing
  Date: 


September
  11, 2024








[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER DENYING DEFENDANT FORCE
  PROTECTION AGENCY, INC.’S MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER



 
I.
        BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs Charles Bernal (“Bernal”) and Artist Worldwide
Agency, LLC (“AWA”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against
defendants Christopher Maggiore (“Maggiore”), Artists Worldwide (“AW”), Jamison
Properties, Inc. (“Jamison Properties”) [dismissed on October 12, 2023], Force
Protection Agency, Inc. (“FPA”), Doe 1, and Does 2-25 premised upon various allegations,
such as interference with AWA’s business, breach of contract, assault, and
battery.
On March 3, 2023, Maggiore and AW (collectively,
“Defendants”) filed their Answer to Plaintiffs’ complaint.
On July 3, 2024, Defendant FPA filed the instant Motion for
Protective Order.   
Plaintiffs oppose the motion. A reply has not been filed. 
A.    Moving
Argument
            Defendant
FPA requests that the court enter a Protective Order stating that the
depositions of FPA or any of its employees shall not proceed until FPA has
received the entire client file from Attorney Cole Sheridan, and until receipt
of Plaintiff Charles Bernal’s discovery responses on or after July 31, 2024.
FPA argues good cause exists for issuing the requested protective order because
FPA’s due process rights would be violated without it. Specifically, Defense
counsel has only recently come into the case, FPA does not have prior counsel’s
entire client file, prior counsel failed to adequately represent FPA, it is reasonably
believed there may be additional necessary information and documents of which
FPA is unaware within the client file, and FPA has taken steps to promptly
remedy the problem.
B.    Opposing
Argument
            FPA’s Motion for Protective Order is
not supported by any legal authority because there is no claim of unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, and no claim of undue burden and expense.
Additionally,
if a protective order were granted, Plaintiffs would be prejudiced because
Plaintiff Bernal has been attempting to take depositions of FPA employees Guy
Mack, Russell Stuart, and FPA’s person most knowledgeable. (Lauber Decl. ¶3.)
Trial in this matter is only four months away, yet FPA has not produced a
single witness for deposition.
C.    Reply
Argument
None filed.
 
II.        MOTION
FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER
A.    Legal
Standard
            A party may move for a protective
order before, during, or even after a deposition. (Civ. Proc. Code § 2025.420.)
With good cause shown, the Court may make any order that justice requires to
protect a party or deponent from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or
oppression, or undue burden and expense. A protective order under this section
may include direction that “the deposition not be taken at all,” or “be taken
only on certain specified terms and conditions,” or “that certain matters not
be inquired into,” or “that the examination be limited to certain matters.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2015.420(b)(1), (5), (9), and (10); see also In re
Lifschutz (1970) 2 Cal.3d 415, 437.) Trial courts are “granted great
discretion in making orders under [this provision] . . . and . . . the power to
prevent abuse is the power to exercise discretion based upon the factual
showing made.” (Durst v. Superior Court (1963) 218 Cal.App.2d 460, 467.)
B.    Discussion
            Defendant FPA has failed to provide
sufficient evidence showing good cause as Defendant failed to show any
unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden and expense. Here,
Defendant’s Counsel states that he substituted in as FPA’s counsel on May 30,
2024. (Stewart Decl. ¶ 3.) On the same day, he requested the complete client
file from former counsel, however, to date has not received the complete file.
(Id. at ¶¶ 4-12.) Counsel further states “Mr. Sheridan was a percipient
witness to the occurrence on January 27, 2023, that forms the basis of the allegations
of liability against FPA. Upon information and belief, this fact was never
disclosed to the Plaintiffs by Mr. Sheridan, based on review of the portions of
the client file has been produced to date by Mr. Sheridan. . . In
addition, an actual conflict exists for any attorney who would be asked to
concurrently represent both the interests of FPA and the interests of Maggiore
and AW in this matter.” (Id. at ¶¶ 13-14.) Counsel further declares, “this
conflict appears to have manifested in the apparent failure of Mr. Sheridan to
pursue any meaningful discovery probative to the defenses of FPA in the
litigation. . . Thus, I currently have no information from Mr. Bernal regarding
liability or damages, beyond what is stated in the complaint.” (Id. at
¶¶ 15-16.) Defendant FPA’s President, Russell Stuart also provided his
declaration stating “[w]ithin the past two months I have first become aware
that Cole Sheridan did not pursue any meaningful discovery probative to the
issues and defenses of FPA during the pendency of litigation.” (Stuart Decl. ¶
12.) Mr. Stuart further stated that there were multiple issues with former
counsel’s representation. (Stuart Decl. ¶¶ 8-12.) 
            The Court notes that on June 27,
2024 “FPA served a request for prior pleadings and prior discovery upon Bernal.
Bernal provide[d] the request[ed] documents on July 31, 2024.” (Lauber Decl. ¶
4.) Moreover, “Bernal did not receive any written discovery requests or notices
of subpoenas to third parties from Defendant Force Protection Agency’s (“FPA”)
prior to the substitution of attorney filed on May 30, 2024.” (Id. at ¶
2.) Additionally, Defendants’ former Counsel failed to attend mandatory court
hearings, failed to propound any discovery, failed to take depositions, failed
to file any motions, and failed to assert any affirmative defenses
on behalf of FPA. (Stuart Decl. ¶¶ 9,12.) Moreover, FPA’s current counsel
joined the case prior to the beginning of expert discovery. Therefore, this
suggests that Defendant’s former Counsel does not have any additional
information. 
            Thus, Defendant failed to present evidence
of any unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden and
expense. 
 
IV. CONCLUSION
The Motion for a Protective Order is DENIED.
 
Moving Party is ordered to give notice.
 
DATED:
September 11, 2024
__________________________
Hon. Michelle C. Kim
Judge of the Superior Court
 
PLEASE
TAKE NOTICE:
•           Parties
are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if
they can reach an agreement.
•           If
a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an
email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing
date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
•           Unless
all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should
arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You
should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
•           If
the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion
off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.