  Case Number:  22STCV24782    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  78 


DANIEL
  CHU,
Plaintiff(s),
vs.
GRCA2
  DEVELOPMENT, LLC, et al.,
Defendant(s).


Case
  No.: 


22STCV24782




Hearing
  Date: 


September 11,
  2024








[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR SUMMARY
  JUDGMENT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION



 
I.
        BACKGROUND
On August 1, 2022, plaintiff Daniel Chu (“Plaintiff”) filed
this action against defendants GRCA2 Development, LLC (“GRCA2”), Gerry Wiener
(“Wiener”), and CAA General Contractor, Inc. (“CAA”), and Cesar Andrino (Doe 1)
for breach of contract action arising from renovation defects. Plaintiff
alleges the following.
On October 15, 2015, he entered into a Residential Purchase
Agreement (“RPA”) with GRCA2 to purchase real property and improvements located
at 2260 Maravilla Drive, Los Angeles, California (“the Property”). (Compl. ¶
9.) In sum, Plaintiff discovered material defects in the renovations in 2016,
and the parties settled the dispute pursuant to a Settlement Agreement in which
GRCA2 represented to Plaintiff that GRCA2 had repaired or addressed all matters
and defects set forth in the Addenda. (Id. at ¶¶ 18-20.) In August 2021,
Plaintiff attempted to settle the property to a third party when Plaintiff
discovered that no certificate of occupancy was ever obtained, and discovered
evidence that GRCA2 and CAA intentionally concealed the defective renovations.
(Id. at ¶¶ 21-23.) The complaint sets forth five causes of action for (1)
Negligence (CAA Contractor), (2) Breach of Settlement Agreement (GRCA2), (3)
Fraud (GRCA2 and Wiener), (4) Declaratory Relief (GRCA2 and Wiener), and (5)
Breach of Addendum to Purchase Agreement (GRCA2).
On March 21, 2024, GRCA2 and Wiener (collectively,
“Defendants”) filed the instant motion for summary judgment against each cause
of action against it, namely the third, fourth, and fifth causes of action.
On July 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed his opposition to the
motion.
On August 2, 2024, Defendants filed a reply.
On August 7, 2024, the Court continued the motion for
additional time to consider the issues.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
            A party may move for summary
judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no
defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (a).)
“[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from
the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that
there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to
summary judgment. (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th
1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an
alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all
procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c,
subd. (f)(2).)
The moving party bears an initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material
fact, and if the party does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make
a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact. (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ.
Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or
more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”
(Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159
Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(c).)
 
III.      EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff submits three evidentiary objections to the
declaration of Robert Rosen. Objection 1 is sustained, objection 2 is
overruled, and objection 3 is sustained.
 
iv.       DISCUSSION
The following facts are undisputed. On October 15, 2014,
Plaintiff and GRCA2 entered into the RPA in which Plaintiff agreed to purchase
the Property. (UMF 1.) The sale of the Property closed in December 2014. (UMF
2.) On May 5, 2016, Plaintiff transmitted a demand letter setting forth defects
in the Property that was allegedly discovered after Plaintiff had purchased the
Property. (UMF 3.) On November 22, 2016, the parties engaged in mediation,
which resulted in a Short Form Settlement Agreement with a mutual release and
waiver. (UMFs 5-7.) Following execution of the Short Form Agreement, Plaintiff
and GRCA2 entered into a long form Settlement Agreement and Mutual Release (i.e.
the “2016 Settlement Agreement”) on December 21, 2016. (UMF 9.)
GRCA2 argues it is entitled to summary adjudication because
(1) Plaintiff released his claims when he executed the 2016 Settlement
Agreement and Mutual Release (“2016 Settlement Agreement”) on December 20,
2016, (2) Plaintiff’s action is time-barred by Civil Code § 337, and (3) GRCA2
did not breach the 2016 Settlement Agreement.
 
A.   
Second and Third Causes of Action –
Breach of 2016 Settlement Agreement & Fraud
 
 
1.     2016 Settlement Agreement & Release
Here, it is undisputed that GRCA2 and Plaintiff executed the
2016 Settlement Agreement. The recitals provide as follows: (1) seller GRCA2
sold the Property to buyer Plaintiff pursuant to the 2004 RPA, in which
Plaintiff alleges there were defects in the Property which GRCA2 was obligated
to repair, (3) GRCA2 denies all of Plaintiff’s allegations, and “believes that
all such defects were repaired and/or addressed in Addenda to the RPA executed
by Buyer”, (3) the parties agree the Agreement reflects a compromise and
settlement of disputed and contested matters, and (4) the parties desire fully
and finally compromise and resolve any and all claims they may have against one
another, previously asserted or 
unasserted. The settlement terms provide that GRCA2 would cause payment
to be made to Plaintiff in the amount of $60,000 in exchange for the parties
releases each other any and all claims. 
The releases provisions are under paragraph 3 and 8 of the
2016 Settlement Agreement. Under “3. General Release”, it provides for a
release of any and all past, present or future claims, causes of action of any
kind, demands, “and compensation of any nature whatsoever...in any way related
to the Property, the RPA, and/or the Allegations” and that the parties ““expressly
waive and assume the risk of any and all claims for damages or any other
relief, including injunctive relief, which exist as of this date but of which
they do not know or suspect to exist, whether through ignorance, oversight,
error, negligence or otherwise, and which, if known, would materially affect
their decision to enter into this Agreement.” (Decl. Rosen; Exh. K.) Under “8.
Section 1542 Release,” the agreement further provides that: “With regard to the
matters expressly released under the provisions of this Agreement, the parties
waive the rights, benefits and remedies conferred by Section 1542 of the
California Civil Code…”
Defendants argue that the 2016 Settlement Agreement’s
release clauses extinguished all liability Plaintiff may have against
Defendants arising out of the Property in exchange for Defendants’ payment of
$60,000. However, the issue, as framed by the second cause of action for breach
of the 2016 Settlement Agreement, is whether Defendants have met their burden
to show that the 2016 Settlement Agreement was not breached. As to whether
there was a breach of the 2016 Settlement Agreement, the defendants point to
the plain language of the 2016 Settlement, and the particular language used
(“believes” and “denies”) in order to show there were no representations made,
and therefore no breach. The Defendants meet their burden in this regard. The
burden shifts to Plaintiff to raise a triable issue of material fact as to
whether the 2016 Settlement Agreement was breached.
Plaintiff’s first argument is that a triable issue of
material fact exists as to whether Defendants breached the 2016 Settlement
Agreement itself, because GRCA2 assured Plaintiff it addressed and/or repaired
defects and missing permits that plagued the Property. Here, Plaintiff also
points to the plain language of the 2016 Settlement Agreement, pointing the
Court to language which the Plaintiff argues incorporates the representations
in Addenda 3 into the material terms of the 2016 Settlement Agreement with the
language “as if fully set forth herein and made a part hereof.” (AF 18)
The Court notes that this case was reassigned, effective July
5, 2024. (Notice of Case Reassignment, June 25, 2024.) Plaintiff points to
another judge’s ruling regarding Defendants’ motion for judgment on the
pleading and demurrer; Defendants’ prior unsuccessful attack on the pleadings
is not the same as a dispositive motion, nor does it act as a bar to granting
the instant motion. Nonetheless, viewing the evidence in the light most
favorable to the opposing party, the Court finds that Plaintiff has raised a
triable issue of fact as to whether the 2016 Settlement Agreement has been
breached due to the factual question of whether the recitals were incorporated
into the agreement as material terms.
As to the third cause of action, a party
alleging fraud must generally prove a factual misrepresentation or concealment
made with the intent to induce signing of the release and justifiable reliance
thereon. (See CCP §1572; Rosencrans v. Dover Images, Ltd. (2011) 192
Cal.App.4th 1072, 1080-1081. Although the existence of fraud is ordinarily a
question of fact (Cal. Civ. Code § 1574), it may be decided as a matter of law
“if reasonable minds can come to only one conclusion based on the facts.” (Guido
v. Koopman (1991) 1 Cal.App.4th 837, 843; see Rosencrans v. Dover
Images, Ltd., supra, 192 Cal.App.4th at 1080-1081.) 
Defendants rely on Salehi v. Surfside III Condo. Owners'
Assn. (2011) 200 Cal. App. 4th 1146 and Winet v. Price (1992) 4 Cal.
App. 4th 1159. The Court finds Salehi and Winet to be
inapplicable here, where the current issue is whether the settlement agreement
itself was breached.
Defendants address the third cause of action for Fraud by pointing
the Court to the plain language of the 2016 Settlement Agreement, and the
Declaration of Rosen. The Court considers the plain language of the 2016
Settlement Agreement to satisfy the Defendant’s burden of proof. Nonetheless,
Plaintiff establishes a triable issue of fact as to whether there was fraud based
on the deposition testimony of Weiner and Rosen, as the deposition testimony tends
to show that Defendants were actually unaware of the status of the permits such
that the representation of their “belief” that defects were addressed may be
reasonably construed as false statements. (AF 2)
2.     Statute of Limitations
Generally, a statute of limitations begins to run when a
cause of action accrues, meaning when the cause of action is complete with all
of its elements.¿(Pineda v. Bank of America, N.A.¿(2010) 50 Cal. 4th
1389, 1397.) “An important exception to the general rule of accrual is the
‘discovery¿rule,’ which postpones accrual of a cause of action until the
plaintiff discovers, or has reason to discover, the cause of
action.¿[Citations.]” (Fox v. Ethicon Endo-Surgery, Inc.¿(2005) 35
Cal.4th 797, 807.) “[T]o rely on the discovery rule for¿delayed¿accrual¿of a
cause of action, ‘[a] plaintiff whose complaint shows on its face that his
claim would be barred without the benefit of the discovery rule must
specifically plead facts to show (1) the time and manner of discovery¿and¿(2)
the inability to have made earlier discovery despite reasonable diligence.’
[Citation.] In assessing the sufficiency of the allegations of delayed
discovery, the court places the burden on the plaintiff to ‘show diligence’;
‘conclusory allegations will not withstand demurrer.’ [Citation.]” (Id.
at 808.) 
Here, the issue is when the causes of action
accrued. Defendants argue that the statute of limitations has run because Chu
knew of all the issues starting in 2014. (UMF 21-31) However, Plaintiff’s
theory of the case is that new representations were made and/or reincorporated
into the 2016 Settlement Agreement, and the discovery of any misrepresentations
were delayed due to active concealment. Here, there is a triable issue of fact
as to delayed discovery, given the apparent discrepancy between the language of
the settlement agreement (“believes” and “denies”) and the deposition testimony
of Rosen and Weiner which arguably shows those assertions in the 2016
Settlement Agreement are false. Thus, there is a question of fact to be
determined as to when the causes of action accrued due to when plaintiff should
have reasonably discovered the breach.
Summary adjudication to the second cause of
action for breach of the 2016 Settlement Agreement and third cause of action
for fraud are DENIED.
B.   
Fourth Cause of Action –
Declaratory Relief
Plaintiff pleads the fourth cause of action as
an alternative to the second cause of action, seeking to invalidate the global
release and waiver in the 2016 Settlement Agreement based on allegations that GRCA2
obtained the release through fraud and deceit. (Compl. ¶ 53.) GRCA2 argues it
is entitled to summary adjudication because this cause of action is
time-barred. The Court DENIES summary adjudication for the same reasons as
above.
C.   
Fifth Cause of Action –
Breach of Addendum to RPA
Plaintiff pled the fifth cause of action in the
alternative to the second cause of action, in which the cause of action assumes
that the release and waiver contained in the 2016 Settlement Agreement was set
aside, in that case alleging breach of the Addenda to the RPA. (Compl. ¶ 57.)
Plaintiff alleges that Addendum 1 and Addendum 3 stated that GRCA2 would
provide all required permits for the renovations, and obtain any required
unapproved permits in post-closing, but concealed its non-compliance such that
Plaintiff could not have reasonably discovered it sooner than the 2021 Sale
Agreement. (Id ¶ 59.) GRCA2 argues it is entitled to summary adjudication based
on the general release of the 2016 Settlement Agreement, and that the cause of
action is time-barred. For the same reasons as above, summary adjudication is
DENIED as to those arguments.
 
V.        CONCLUSION
Defendants GRCA2 Development, LLC’s and Gerry Wiener’s
motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication,
against Plaintiff’s complaint is DENIED in its entirety.
 
Moving Party is ordered to give notice.
 
DATED:
September 10, 2024
__________________________
Hon. Michelle C. Kim
Judge of the Superior Court
 
PLEASE
TAKE NOTICE:
•           Parties
are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if
they can reach an agreement.
•           If
a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an
email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing
date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party
submitting.
•           Unless
all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should
arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You
should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
•           If
the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion
off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.