 Case Number:  24STLC01052    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  26   
State
Farm v. Hernandez-Fernandez, et al.DEMURRER
(CCP § 430.10, et seq.)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Cross-Defendant Eva Castaneda’s
Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint is OVERRULED. CROSS-DEFENDANT IS TO FILE AND
SERVE AN ANSWER TO THE CROSS-COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS RULING.
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 

On February 13, 2024, Plaintiff State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint in
this action against Defendant Flavio Hernandez-Fernandez aka Flavio
Benjamin Hernandez aka Flavio Hernandez Benjamin (“Cross-Complainant
Hernandez-Fernandez”). On April 18, 2024, Cross-Complainant Hernandez-Fernandez
filed an answer to the Complaint, and with Aspire General Insurance Company
(“Cross-Complainant Aspire), filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendant
Eva Castaneda (“Cross-Defendant”). 
 
Cross-Defendant filed the instant
Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint on July 3, 2024. Cross-Complainants filed an
opposition on July 26, 2024. 
 
Discussion
 
Allegations
in the Pleadings
 
The
Complaint alleges that Cross-Complainant
Hernandez-Fernandez negligently caused Plaintiff’s insured, Andres Flores
Tercero, and/or his/her permissive users and/or passengers, to incur damages in a motor vehicle accident. (Compl., ¶6.)
Plaintiff allegedly paid its insured for the damages in the amount of $5,989.11
and now seeks subrogation of those damages from Cross-Complainant
Hernandez-Fernandez. (Id. at ¶¶7-9.)
 
In the Cross-Complaint, Cross-Complainants bring causes of
action for (1) declaratory relief and comparative indemnity; (2) apportionment
of fault; and (3) subrogation. The Cross-Complaint confusingly refers only to
“Cross-Complainant” without specifying whether it is referring to
Cross-Complainant Hernandez-Fernandez or Cross-Complainant Aspire. Only the
third cause of action for subrogation is brought by “Cross-Complainants.” The
allegations are as follows. If Cross-Complainant is held liable, then
Cross-Defendant was negligent or liable in some manner for the damages alleged
by Plaintiff. (Cross-Compl., ¶6.) Specifically, that on May 8, 2023, at 235
West 60th Street, Los Angeles, California, Cross-Defendant “negligently owned,
entrusted, maintained, operated and controlled their motor vehicle in such a
fashion that they proximately caused a collision with Cross-Complainant’s
vehicle.” (Id. at ¶¶8, 18.) Cross-Complainant has not been negligent and
is not liable for Plaintiff’s alleged damages. (Id. at ¶10.) However, if
Cross-Complainant is held liable, then Cross-Defendant was contributorily
negligent in causing any damages alleged by Plaintiff and Cross-Complainant is
entitled to be indemnified by Cross-Defendant for the full amount of any
judgment entered against Cross-Complainant, reduced to the extent Plaintiff’s
damages are attributable to any negligence or liability of Cross-Complainant. (Ibid.)
Cross-Complainant Aspire seeks subrogation of damages it paid to
Cross-Complainant Hernandez-Fernandez due to the accident. (Id. at
¶¶15-20.) 
 
Demurrer
 
The Demurrer is accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration as required by Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41. (Demurrer, Reese Decl., ¶¶4-7 and Exh. A.)
Cross-Defendant demurs to the Cross-Complaint for failure to
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action. (Citing Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e).) The Demurrer is brought on the grounds that indemnification
and apportionment of fault are inapplicable between Plaintiff’s insured,
Cross-Defendant, and Cross-Complainant Fernandez-Hernandez because
Cross-Complainant Fernandez-Hernandez and Cross-Defendant are not joint
tortfeasors to the Plaintiff. Cross-Defendant argues that it cannot be a joint
tortfeasor with respect to Plaintiff because they were Tercero’s permissive
driver at the time of the accident. (Demurrer, p. 2:3-14.) This argument,
however, relies on facts outside of the pleadings. The Demurrer does not point
to any allegations in the Cross-Complaint, or to any judicially noticeable
facts, that state Cross-Defendant was the driver of Tercero’s vehicle. As this
is the entire basis of the Demurrer, the Court overrules the Demurrer as to
each cause of action in the Cross-Complaint. 
 
Conclusion
 
Cross-Defendant Eva Castaneda’s Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint
is OVERRULED. CROSS-DEFENDANT IS TO FILE AND SERVE AN ANSWER TO THE
CROSS-COMPLAINT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS RULING. 
 
 
Court clerk to give notice. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 