 Case Number:  22STCV29810    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On September
13, 2022, Plaintiff Derrick Bernard (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Ericka Gomez (“Gomez”), Sergio Vargas (“Vargas”), and Does 1-50 for
general negligence, premises liability, and strict liability. 
On
April 2, 2024, Vargas filed a demurrer. 
On April 3, 2024, Vargas filed a motion to strike.  The motions were set to be heard on April 30,
2024.  On April 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed
oppositions. On April 23 and 26, 2024, Vargas filed replies. The Court continued
the hearing to May 29, 2024. 
No
trial date is currently scheduled. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Vargas
asks the Court to sustain the demurrer and strike the request for punitive
damages. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to overrule the demurrer and deny the motion to strike. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Demurrer 
“The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint
has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,
to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds: 
“(a) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject
of the cause of action alleged in the pleading. 
“(b) The person who filed the pleading does not
have the legal capacity to sue. 
“(c) There is another action pending between the
same parties on the same cause of action. 
“(d) There is a defect or misjoinder of parties. 
“(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action. 
“(f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this
subdivision, “uncertain” includes ambiguous and unintelligible. 
“(g) In an action founded upon a contract, it
cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the contract is written, is
oral, or is implied by conduct. 
“(h) No certificate was filed as required by
Section 411.35.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.) 
In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any
ground for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the
face thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take
judicial notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading”].) 
B.   Motion to strike 
“Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The Court may “[s]trike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a).)  “The grounds for a motion to
strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading of from any matter
of which the court is required to take judicial notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).) 
“In
order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the
ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a
plaintiff.” Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)
 “In passing on the correctness of a
ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to
a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their
truth.”  (Ibid.)  “In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do
not read allegations in isolation.”  (Ibid.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following: 
On
or about October 22, 2020, “Defendants negligently, carelessly, recklessly
and/or wantonly managed, owned, maintained, operated, controlled, safeguarded
and designed the premises located at or near 123 W 58th St., Los Angeles, CA
90037 such that a dog known to have dangerous
propensities was allowed to be left alone and/or unrestrained on the premises thereby
constituting a dangerous area, and such that defendants failed to warn of the
dangerous condition of the premises, and/or prematurely and/or incorrectly
allowed foot traffic in the area where the dangerous condition existed,
rendering the area on said premises dangerous and legally causing Plaintiff to
be injured in the following manner: Plaintiff was walking near the subject
premises when, suddenly and without warning, Plaintiff was bitten and/or
attacked by Defendant ERICKA GOMEZ's dog causing Plaintiff to sustain serious
injuries and damages as alleged hereinabove. Defendants' conduct was the
proximate cause of Plaintiffs injuries. Defendants ERICKA GOMEZ, an individual;
and DOES 1 TO 50, inclusive, knew or should have known about the dog's
propensity to bite/attack humans and allowed the dog to roam freely unattended
on the property and to come in contact with others unattended such that
Defendants are subject to punitive damages as set forth in California Civil
Code $3294.” 
“Defendant
ERICKA GOMEZ is strictly liable for the dog bite injuries sustained by
Plaintiff because ERICKA GOMEZ is the legal owner of the dog that caused the
injuries to Plaintiff. On or about or about October 22,2020, Plaintiff was lawfully
walking near the premises located at or near 123 W 58th St., Los Angeles, CA
90037 when Defendants' dog bit and attacked Plaintiff, causing Plaintiff to
sustain serious injuries as alleged hereinabove. Defendant ERICKA GOMEZ is the
owner of the dog that caused the dog bite injuries to Plaintiff and is
therefore strictly liable to Plaintiff for the serious injuries he sustained.
Defendant ERICKA GOMEZ, the owner of the dog, knew or should have known about
the dog's propensity to bite/attack humans and still allowed the dog to come in
contact with others unattended such that Defendants are subject to punitive
damages as set forth in California Civil Code § 3294.” 
The
complaint also alleges that Vargas negligently owned, maintained, managed, and
operated the premises and caused
Plaintiff’s damages. 
B.   Vargas’s demurrer 
1.    Negligence and premises liability claims 
“The
elements of a negligence claim and a premises liability claim are the same: a
legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in
injury.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1159.) 
“ ‘[I]t
is well established that a landlord does not owe a duty of care to protect a
third party from his or her tenant's dog unless the landlord has actual
knowledge of the dog's dangerous propensities, and the ability to control or
prevent the harm.’ ” (Salinas v. Martin (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 404, 413
(Salinas), quoting Chee v. Amanda Goldt Property Management
(2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1360, 1369; see Donchin v. Guerrero
(1995) 34 Cal.App.4th 1834, 1838 [“A landlord who does not have actual
knowledge of a tenant’s dog’s vicious nature cannot be held liable when the dog
attacks a third person”]; Uccello v. Laudenslayer (1975) 44 Cal.App.3d
504, 507.) 
“ ‘
“ ‘[A] landlord is under no duty to inspect the premises for the purpose of
discovering the existence of a tenant’s dangerous animal; only when the
landlord has actual knowledge of the animal, coupled with the right to have it
removed from the premises, does a duty of care arise. [Citations.]’ ” ’ ”  (Salinas, supra, 166 Cal.App.4th
at p. 413.) 
Vargas
asks the Court to sustain the demurrer because the complaint does not allege
facts showing that he knew about the dog’s purportedly vicious nature.  Plaintiff opposes the demurrer, arguing that Vargas
knew about the dog’s dangerous propensities. 
Plaintiff points to the complaint’s allegation that “a dog known to have
dangerous propensities was allowed to be left alone and/or unrestrained on the
premises . . . .” 
The
Court finds that the complaint’s reference to unspecified individuals knowing
about the dog’s dangerous propensities does not constitute an allegation that
Vargas knew this information.  The Court
sustains the demurrer to the negligence and premises liability claims asserted against Vargas with
leave to amend. 
2.    Negligence per se claim 
Under
the common law, to establish strict liability Plaintiff must show: (1) the
defendant owned, kept, or controlled the dog; (2) the dog had an unusually
dangerous nature or tendency; (3) before the plaintiff was injured, the
defendant knew or should have known that the dog had this nature or tendency;
(4) the plaintiff was harmed; and (5) the dog’s unusually dangerous nature or
tendency was a substantial factor in causing the plaintiff’s harm. (Priebe
v. Nelson (2006) 39 Cal.4th 1112, 1115.) 
Civil
Code section 3342, subdivision (a), provides: 
“The owner of any dog is liable for the damages
suffered by any person who is bitten by the dog while in a public place or
lawfully in a private place, including the property of the owner of the dog,
regardless of the former viciousness of the dog or the owner’s knowledge of
such viciousness. A person is lawfully upon the private property of such owner
within the meaning of this section when he is on such property in the
performance of any duty imposed upon him by the laws of this state or by the
laws or postal regulations of the United States, or when he is on such property
upon the invitation, express or implied, of the owner.” 
(Civ. Code, § 3342, subd.
(a).) 
          Plaintiff asserted a claim for negligence per se against “[a]ll
Defendants.”  The complaint, however, does
not allege that Vargas owned, kept, or controlled the dog.  Plaintiff does not dispute
Vargas’s contention that Plaintiff has not pleaded facts supporting a claim
against Vargas for negligence per se. 
          The Court sustains the demurrer to Plaintiff’s
negligence per se claim asserted against Vargas with leave to amend. 
C.   Vargas’s motion to strike punitive damages allegations 
1.    Punitive damages 
“(a) In an action for the breach of an obligation not
arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff,
in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example
and by way of punishing the defendant. 
* * *
“(c) As used in this section, the following
definitions shall apply: 
“(1) ‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others. 
“(2) ‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights. 
(3) ‘Fraud’ means an intentional misrepresentation,
deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the
intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subds.
(a), (c).) 
2.    Vargas’s motion to strike 
Vargas
asks the Court to strike the complaint’s punitive damages allegations because
Plaintiff has not alleged facts showing that Vargas engaged in conduct
amounting to malice, oppression or fraud. 
Because
the Court has sustained the demurrer, the motion to strike is moot. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court SUSTAINS Sergio Vargas’ demurrer to Plaintiff
Derrick Bernard’s complaint with 30 days leave to amend. 
The
Court DENIES as moot Sergio Vargas’ motion to strike the punitive damages allegations
from Plaintiff Derrick Bernard’s complaint. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.