  Case Number:  23SMCV02323    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Jeff Mohr, et
al. v. Nubu22, LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV02323
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Further Responses/Motion for Compliance
HEARING DATE:   8/16/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
            A motion to compel further responses
to a demand for inspection or production of documents (RPD) may be brought
based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate, evasive or
incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or overly
generalized objections. (CCP§ 2031.310(c).) A motion to compel
further responses to requests for production “shall set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”
(CCP. § 2031.310(b)(1).) “To establish ‘good cause,’ the burden is on the
moving party to show both: [¶] Relevance to the subject matter (e.g., how the
information in the documents would tend to prove or disprove some issue in the
case); and [¶] Specific facts justifying discovery (e.g., why such information
is necessary for trial preparation or to prevent surprise at trial.)
[Citations.] [¶] The fact that there is no alternative source for the
information sought is an important factor in establishing ‘good cause’ for
inspection. But it is not essential in every case.” (Edmon & Karnow,
California Practice Guide: Civ. Proc. Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2017) ¶
8:1495.6.) 
 
            If a timely motion to
compel has been filed, the¿burden is on the responding party¿to justify any objection
or failure fully to answer.¿(Coy v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210,
220–221 [addressing a motion to compel further responses to interrogatories];
see also¿Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(2000) 22 Cal.4th 245,
255.) 
If a party agrees to the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of
documents in response to a request for production of documents, but thereafter
fails to permit the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling in accordance
with that party's statement of compliance, the demanding party may move for an
order compelling compliance. (CCP § 2031.320(a).) 
Analysis
 
            Defendants
Nubu22 LLC, Alicia Yelich and Christian Yelich (“Defendants”) initially filed their
motion to compel further responses to their request for production of documents
(RPDs) on May 13, 2024.  The initial
motion contained a code-compliant separate statement and demonstrated prior
meet and confer efforts.  At a subsequent
IDC, Plaintiffs agreed to provide code complaint responses to the RPDs by (1)
following Defendants’ inspection on May 23, 2024, identify which of those
documents are responsive to which requests, and (2) updating responses to
reflect that only attorney-client documents withheld were those between
Plaintiffs and their counsel with no third parties part of the correspondence. (5/23/24
Minute Order p. 1.)
 
            As requested
at the IDC, on July 16, 2024, Defendant filed a brief outlining the remaining
issue after Plaintiffs’ subsequent production. 
That issue was Plaintiffs failure to identify documents as being
responsive to a specific request as required by Code of Civil Procedure section
2031.280(a).  In opposition, Plaintiffs
argue that their responses were compliant with section 2031.280(a), and that
(1) Defendants failed to include a separate statement and (2) failed to meet
and confer prior to filing this motion.  As
an initial matter, Defendants motion did include a separate statement and detailed
their meet and confer efforts.  As
evidenced by the IDC, the parties met and conferred extensively on these
issues.  Defendants’ updated brief was
merely a convenience for the Court and Plaintiffs in order to identify the
remaining issues and save consider time and resources.  
 
            With
respect to compliance with section 2031.280(a) and compliance with the parties’
agreement at the IDC, Defendants demonstrate that Plaintiffs have failed to properly
identify responsive documents to specific requests.  The fact that Plaintiffs used the same language
in response to request no. 10 (documents relating to the Mohr easement) with
request no. 88 (documents related to the contention that Defendants failed to
get fire department approval) demonstrates Plaintiffs’ failure.  After copying the various files and hard
drives, Defendants must have a compilation of bates stamped documents.  As such, Plaintiffs are ordered to supplement
their responses within the 20 days by identifying specific bates ranges that
are responsive to each of the RPDs.  