 Case Number:  24STCV00694    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  M Case Name:                Hanaie
v. Farazmand, et al.
Case No.:                    24STCV00694
Motion:                      Motions to Set Aside Default
Pursuant to Section 473(b)
Hearing Date:            04/08/2021
 
Legal Standard
Code
of Civil Procedure section 473(b) provides for discretionary relief and for
mandatory relief, depending on the circumstances.  For mandatory relief, “whenever an
application for relief is made no more than six months after entry of judgment,
is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney's sworn affidavit
attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any
(1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her client, and which
will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the
default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney's mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473(b).). 
For discretionary relief, “[t]he
court may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or
proceeding was taken.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 473(b).) A moving party
need only establish “mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect” by
a preponderance of the evidence. (Luz
v. Lopes (1960) 55 Cal.2d 54, 62.)  
 
The law favors judgments based on the merits, not procedural
missteps. Our Supreme Court has repeatedly reminded us that in this area doubts
must be resolved in favor of relief, with an order denying relief scrutinized
more carefully than an order granting it.” (Lasalle v. Vogel (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 127, 134
[emphasis in original].)
 
Analysis
 
            Defendants
Marjan Farazmand and Madoud Farzmand move separately for relief from their
defaulta entered on March 12, 2024.  The
motions for relief from default were filed on April 8, 2024, seeking relief under Code of Civil
Procedure section 473(b) on the basis of mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, and/or excusable neglect by each defendant.  Defendants each claim that their
default was entered because they did not file a responsive pleading to the
complaint because they reasonably believed that the Court had extended their
response deadline to April 8, 2024, pursuant to a stipulation entered into
between plaintiff Joubin Hanaie (“Hanaie”) and co-defendant Reza Farazmand (“R.
Farazmand”), which was filed in the related case, 24SMCV00126. Defendants claim
that their reliance on the stipulation and order extending R. Farzmand’s
deadline to respond in the related case was the result of excusable mistake,
surprise, or neglect.
The Court does not believe
Defendants reliance on a stipulation entered into between other parties would
be reasonable mistake or excusable neglect. 
Defendants are not third-party beneficiaries of that stipulation.  Under Defendants’ theory, any time a party stipulated
to an extension of time for another party, the remaining parties would be
considered third-party beneficiaries of that agreement.  There is no support for that argument in the
law. There is also evidence that Defendants failure to enter the case earlier
was to either avoid a proposed mediation between the parties in the related
case or at least, avoid paying a share of that mediation.  Moreover, their reliance, if any, was not
reasonable.  Counsel for Reza Farazmad
would have been in contact with Defendants and have forwarded Plaintiff’s intent
to enter a default after the due date of February 26, 2024, passed.    
 
With that said, the Court does believe
that discretionary relief should be granted so that Defendants have their day
in court.  Therefore, the motion is
granted.  The Court will impose the following
terms as a condition of discretionary relief. 
First, the “draft” answer attached to the declaration shall be filed as
the answer within two days.  Second, the
Court orders Defendants to pay Plaintiff’s counsel’s reasonable attorney’s fees
as a condition of setting aside those defaults. 
Those fees are payable within 30 days, and if not paid, defaults will be
reinstated.  