 Case Number:  24SMCV01185    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Art Center Holdings, Inc., et
al., v. WCE CA Art LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                24SMCV01185
MOTION:                 Defendants Motion to Compel Arbitration
HEARING DATE:    8/16/23
 
Legal Standard
 
Under California and federal law, public policy favors
arbitration as an efficient and less expensive means of resolving private
disputes. (Moncharsh v. Heily & Blase (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1,
8-9; AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.)
Accordingly, whether an agreement is governed by the California Arbitration Act
(“CAA”) or the Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”), courts resolve doubts about an
arbitration agreement’s scope in favor of arbitration.  (Moncharsh,
supra, 3 Cal.4th at 9; Comedy Club, Inc. v. Improv West Assocs. (9th
Cir. 2009) 553 F.3d 1277, 1284; see also Engalla v. Permanente Med. Grp.,
Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-972 [“California law incorporates many of
the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including
a presumption in favor of arbitrability [citation] and a requirement that an
arbitration agreement must be enforced on the basis of state law standards that
apply to contracts in general”].) “[U]nder both the FAA and California law,
‘arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such
grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.’ ” (Higgins
v. Superior Crout (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.) 
 
“Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 requires a trial
court to grant a petition to compel arbitration if the court determines that an
agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists.” (Avery v. Integrated
Healthcare Holdings, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 50, 59, quotations
omitted.) Accordingly, “when presented with a petition to compel arbitration,
the court’s first task is to determine whether the parties have in fact agreed
to arbitrate the dispute.”  (Ibid.) A petition to compel
arbitration is in essence a suit in equity to compel specific performance of a
contract. (Id. at 71.) As with any other specific performance claim, “a
party seeking to enforce an arbitration agreement must show the agreement’s
terms are sufficiently definite to enable the court to know what it is to
enforce.” (Ibid. [internal citations omitted].) “Only the valid
and binding agreement of the parties, including all material terms well-defined
and clearly expressed, may be ordered specifically performed.” (Ibid.)
An arbitration agreement “must be so interpreted as to give effect to the
mutual intention of the parties as it existed at the time of contracting, so
far as the same is ascertainable and lawful.” (Civ. Code, § 1636.) The language
of the contract governs its interpretation if it is clear and explicit. (Civ.
Code, § 1368.) If uncertainty exists, “the language of a contract should be
interpreted most strongly against the party who caused the uncertainty to
exist.” (Civ. Code, § 1654.)  
 
The party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of
the evidence. (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15
Cal.4th 951, 972.) It would then be plaintiff’s burden, in opposing the motion,
to prove by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to her
opposition. (See Ibid.) “In these summary proceedings, the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s
discretion, to reach a final determination.” (Ibid.) 
 
Analysis
 
Factual Background
 
Plaintiffs, including medical
doctors Mark W. Surrey and Hal C. Danzer, founded several fertility-related
medical companies over two decades ago and in 2019 entered into a transaction with
Defendant Women’s Care Enterprises, LLC (WCE). The transaction centered around
two key agreements: the Participating Physician Compensation Agreement (PPCA)
and the Stock Purchase Agreement (SPA), neither of which contained arbitration
clauses, instead requiring disputes to be resolved in state or federal courts
in Los Angeles County, California. (Compl. ¶¶ 1, 30-32, 45; Keech Decl. ¶¶
2-3.)
 
In addition to the PPCA and SPA,
the parties also entered into three ancillary Management Services Agreements
(MSAs) for SCRC, ART, and Roxbury. These MSAs, which included arbitration
provisions, are the focus of Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration. None of
the direct Plaintiffs, nor even certain Defendants, signed these MSAs. Of the
fifteen parties involved in the case, only five are signatories to the MSAs.
(Fisher Decl. ¶ 2.) Each MSA contained a broad arbitration provision, stating:
 
Arbitration. Except as expressly
provided below in this Section 10.14, all controversies, claims and disputes
arising from or relating to this Agreement will be resolved by final and
binding arbitration before a single neutral arbitrator located in Los Angeles,
California conducted under the applicable rules of the American Arbitration
Association. The arbitrator’s award will be final and binding upon the Parties
and judgment may be entered on the award. Each Party expressly waives its right
to have any controversies, claims or dispute arising from or related to this
Agreement decided by a court or jury. Nothing in this Section 10.14 will
prohibit or prevent either Party from seeking or obtaining injunctive or other
equitable relief in court to enforce the restrictive covenants in Article VI or
any other agreement between the Parties. The Parties and the arbitrator will
maintain in confidence the existence of the arbitration proceeding, all
materials filed in conjunction therewith and the substance of the underlying
dispute unless and then only to the extent that disclosure is otherwise
required by applicable Law (Fisher Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. 1, Surrey Decl., Ex. A (SCRC
MSA) at § 10.14; Ex. B (ART MSA) at § 9.13; Ex. C (Roxbury MSA) at § 9.14).**
 
In March 2024, Plaintiffs initiated
this lawsuit, with several Plaintiffs suing derivatively on behalf of entities
such as ART Center Holdings, Inc., Roxbury Surgery Holdings, Inc., and SCRC
Medical Group, P.C. (Compl. at Caption.) Many Plaintiffs, including Drs.
Danzer, Alexander, Akopians, and Barritt, are not signatories to any of the
MSAs and are suing solely in their individual capacities. The Complaint
includes eleven causes of action, only the first six of which are brought
derivatively and reference the MSAs. The remaining five causes of action,
including breach of contract of the SPA, breach of joint venture/partnership
agreement, intentional interference with prospective economic advantage,
accounting, and declaratory relief, do not directly reference the MSAs. (Compl.
¶¶ 67-132.)
 
Before filing their motion to
compel arbitration, the WCE Defendants litigated the case as to several
issues.  In March 2024, they opposed
Plaintiffs’ application for a receiver, and asserted that the claims were
governed by a detailed purchase agreement, which does not contain an
arbitration clause. During those hearings, Plaintiffs argue that the WCE
Defendants referred to the MSAs as “ancillary” agreements and did not indicate
any belief that the claims were subject to arbitration. Plaintiffs contend that
even after the Court appointed a receiver, the WCE Defendants continued to
litigate in court, including submitting an ex parte application in July 2024, which
Plaintiffs contend further demonstrated their reliance on the Court’s
jurisdiction before shifting to seek arbitration. (Opp. to Receivership App.,
at 6:15-17; Appl. for Clarification dated July 29, 2024, at 7:18.)
 
Existence of Arbitration Clause, Claims Covered, and Equitable
Estoppel
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’
causes of action must proceed to arbitration based on the arbitration
provisions contained within the MSAs. Defendants highlight that the MSAs have
an interstate nexus, given that the MSO Defendants operate out of Florida while
providing management services for the Fertility Practice in Southern California.
(Compl. ¶¶ 15-19.) Defendants also invoke the doctrine of equitable estoppel,
which compels arbitration even when some claims involve non-signatories to the
MSAs, as long as those claims are dependent upon or inextricably linked to the
agreements. (Boucher v. Alliance Title Co. (2005) 127 Cal. App. 4th 262,
269.) 
 
Defendants argue that the MSAs’
arbitration clauses are broad, covering “all controversies, claims, and
disputes arising from or relating to” the agreements. Such language, they
contend, is sufficient to encompass not only contractual claims but also tort
claims and other issues related to the MSAs. They emphasize that Plaintiffs’
claims are deeply intertwined with the MSAs, as they stem from the alleged
mismanagement and breaches of the agreements. This includes claims for breach
of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing,
negligence, conversion, and even those that appear to be tort-based or seek
declaratory relief. Each of these claims, according to Defendants, is rooted in
the contractual relationship established by the MSAs and therefore falls within
the broad scope of the arbitration provisions. (Compl. ¶¶ 67-132.) Defendants
argue that the Court’s role in deciding a motion to compel arbitration is
limited and that the Court must compel arbitration if the agreement is
“susceptible of an interpretation which would cover the dispute.” (Dryer v.
Los Angeles Rams (1985) 40 Cal. 3d 406, 413.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs contend
that arbitration clauses generally do not bind non-signatories, as they are not
parties to the agreements. (Compl. ¶¶ 67-132; Keech Decl. ¶ 2.) Plaintiffs
assert that their claims do not rely on or invoke the MSAs and are not
dependent on any contractual obligations within those agreements and thus,
enforcement under an equitable estoppel argument would fail. For example,
claims like negligence, conversion, and breach of the SPA do not seek to
enforce the MSAs. Plaintiffs emphasize that their claims are viable without
reference to the MSAs, further arguing that the WCE Defendants cannot compel
arbitration in these circumstances. 
 
Specifically, Plaintiffs contend
that in the fifth cause of action for negligence, they are not seeking to
enforce any contract or uphold its validity; rather, they aim to invalidate
these contracts. The negligence claims arise from Defendants’ mismanagement,
which, Plaintiffs argue, would exist regardless of the MSAs. The focus is on
Defendants’ role as owners and managers of the Fertility Practice, not on the
specific terms of the MSAs. (Compl. ¶ 67-132.) Similarly, the sixth cause of
action for conversion alleges that the WCE Defendants improperly awarded
themselves compensation beyond what is set forth in the MSAs. Plaintiffs argue
that their claims are not based on any contractual right under the MSAs, and
therefore, there is no basis to compel arbitration. In the seventh cause of
action, Plaintiffs seek individual compensation for breaches of the SPA, which
explicitly provides for court-based resolution and does not include an
arbitration clause. Thus, Plaintiffs argue that there is a clear agreement to
resolve these claims in court, not through arbitration. (Keech Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. B
[SPA] § 9.18.) As to the eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh causes of action,
Plaintiffs assert that these claims cannot be forced to arbitration based upon Defendants’
assertion of the MSAs as a defense.  Instead,
Plaintiffs argue that the Court should consider how they framed the causes of
action, including negligence, intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage, accounting, and a claim for declaratory relief regarding
the operation of the Fertility Practice
 
Plaintiffs also assert that the
Court, not an arbitrator, must determine the arbitrability of the claims
brought by the direct plaintiffs since they did not sign any of the agreements
containing the arbitration clauses.  The
Court agrees that the threshold issue must be decided by the Court and not the
arbitrator. (See e.g. AT&T Techs., Inc. v. Commc’ns
Workers (1986) 475 U.S. 643, 649 [question of whether parties are bound to
agreement to arbitrate “is to be decided by the court, not the arbitrator”]; Howsam
v. Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. (2002) 537 U.S. 79, 79 [same]; Am.
Builder’s Assn. v. Au-Yang (1990) 226 Cal. App. 3d 170, 179 [same].)
This is because “arbitration is a matter of contract and a party cannot be
required to submit to arbitration any dispute which he has not agreed so
to submit.” (United Steelworkers of Am. v. Warrior & Gulf Nav. Co.
(1960) 363 U.S. 574, 582.) Plaintiffs argues that if the Court finds
certain claims arbitrable, the arbitration should be delayed until after the
Court has adjudicated the non-arbitrable claims. 
 
            In reply,
Defendants argue that the Complaint places the MSAs at the center of the
dispute because the Complaint specifically focuses on the alleged mismanagement
by WCE Defendants under the MSAs, highlighting that these agreements were
integral to the relationship and the core issues in the case. For instance, the
Complaint describes how WCE Defendants were supposed to offer expert
non-medical management services in exchange for substantial fees, but instead,
they allegedly mismanaged the Fertility Practice, leading to increased
expenses, loss of staff, and compromised patient care. (Compl. ¶¶ 2-4, 30-56.)
The Complaint also alleges that the WCE Defendants breached their contractual
obligations under the MSAs, which significantly impacted the Plaintiffs’
operations and financial outcomes. (Compl. ¶¶ 87-88.)  Defendants argue that the MSAs are not just “ancillary”
agreements but are essential to understanding the claims presented in the
Complaint. They emphasize that the MSAs are repeatedly cited throughout the
Complaint as the basis for the alleged mismanagement and the resulting damages
claimed by Plaintiffs. Defendants also note that even the claims related to the
Stock Purchase Agreement (SPA) are intertwined with the MSAs, as the alleged
failure to meet performance targets under the SPA is linked to the WCE
Defendants' mismanagement under the MSAs. (Compl. ¶¶ 102-103.)
 
After reviewing the Complaint and
its causes of action, the Court concludes that all of Plaintiffs’ causes of
action fall within the scope of the broad arbitration clauses of the MSAs,
which require arbitration of “all controversies, claims and disputes arising
from or relating to” the agreements. As to the first four causes of action,
which involve breaches of the MSAs and the implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing, Plaintiffs have conceded that they are arbitrable. While the
direct Plaintiffs are not signatories to the MSAs, by bringing derivative
claims, Plaintiffs not only step into the shoes of the entities that signed the
MSAs and are therefore bound by the arbitration clauses, but bring claims that
are “dependent upon, or inextricably intertwined with the underlying contractual
obligations of the agreement containing the arbitration clause.”  (See Pillar Project AG v. Payward
Ventures, Inc., (2021) 64 Cal. App. 5th 677=78.)  The claims also demonstrate that Plaintiffs
received a direct benefit from the MSAs, which contain the arbitration clauses,
in their practice of medicine.  (Id.)
 
The same rationale applies to the
remaining causes of action (nos. 5-11). 
These claims are also either predicated on or intertwined with the MSAs.
For instance, the fifth cause of action for negligence and sixth cause of
action for conversion are brought derivatively and directly relate to the
management services provided under the MSAs. Similarly, the seventh cause of action
involves breach of the Stock Purchase Agreement (SPA), and the gravamen of the
claim is the alleged mismanagement under the MSAs, which prevented certain Plaintiffs
from meeting performance targets in the SPA. As to the eighth through eleventh
causes of action, which include claims for breach of a joint
venture/partnership agreement, intentional interference with prospective
economic advantage, accounting, and declaratory relief, they are also similarly
based on or intertwined with the MSAs. The MSAs will govern the issue of whether
Defendants' actions exceeded their contractual authority or were in violation
of the agreements.
 
Here, the Complaint itself places
the MSAs at the heart of the dispute, repeatedly referencing the WCE
Defendants’ management obligations and alleged failures under these agreements
as to each of the eleven causes of action. Plaintiffs’ claims, including those
for negligence, conversion, and breach of contract, are all rooted in the
contractual relationships established by the MSAs. The broad arbitration
provisions within the MSAs explicitly cover “all controversies, claims and
disputes arising from or relating to” these agreements, making arbitration the
appropriate forum for resolving these issues even as to non-signatories to the
MSAs.
 
Waiver
 
Plaintiffs argue that even if the
arbitration clauses were applicable, the WCE Defendants waived their right to
arbitration by aggressively litigating the case in court. Plaintiffs contend
that since March 2024, Defendants engaged in extensive litigation, submitting
thousands of pages of evidence and arguments, and invoking the court’s
jurisdiction on multiple occasions. (Opp. to Receivership App., at 5:22-27,
14:6-7; Supp. Brief Response dated Apr. 17, 2024 (“Supp. Brief Response”), at
11:2-3; Appl. for Clarification dated July 29, 2024, at 7:18.) It was only
after unfavorable court rulings that the Defendants sought to compel
arbitration. Plaintiffs contend that this behavior is inconsistent with a right
to arbitration and constitutes a waiver. 
 
            Here, Plaintiffs
have not met the burden of proving that Defendants waived their right to compel
arbitration. As the Supreme Court recently held, a party opposing arbitration
must demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that the other party knew of
their arbitration rights and intentionally relinquished them. (Quach v.
California Commerce Club, Inc., 2024 WL 3530266 at *25-26 (July 25, 2024)),
The Court concurs that opposing an emergency motion for a provisional remedy
like a receivership, or seeking clarification of that order, does not
demonstrate a clear intent to forgo arbitration, especially since Defendants
filed their motion to compel arbitration just over two months after the case
was filed.  There is no evidence that Defendants
engaged in substantive litigation activities such as filing dispositive motions
or serving discovery, but instead, have only responded to Plaintiffs’ initial
motion for a receiver. The Court agrees with Defendants that Plaintiffs fail to
show that Defendants waived their arbitration rights. 
 
Thus, the Court GRANTS Defendants’
motion to compel arbitration as to all Plaintiffs and causes of action.
 
Stay of Proceedings
 
The Court will stay further litigation until the arbitration is
resolved.  The Court has this power to
stay the action.  “The case management
tools available to trial courts [include] the inherent authority to stay an
action when appropriate…[to] overcome problems of simultaneous litigation…”¿ (Jordache
Enterprises, Inc. v. Brobeck, Phelger & Harrison (1998) 18 Cal.4th 739,
758; Beal Bank, SSB v. Arter & Hadden, LLP (2007) 42 Cal.4th 503,
513 (“trial courts have inherent authority to stay…holding [actions] in
abeyance pending resolution of underlying litigation” out of concern for
inconsistent judgments).  And under CCP §
1281.2(3) the Court “may order arbitration among the parties who have agreed to
arbitration and stay the pending court action or special proceeding pending the
outcome of the arbitration proceeding.” 
 
Accordingly, the action is STAYED pending the results of the arbitration.
 
Conclusion
 
            For
the reasons explained above, Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration is
GRANTED and the action is STAYED.  The
Court will set a status conference re arbitration out approximately one year.