 Case Number:  22STCP02726    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  76  Petitioners Mohsen Amjadi and Saeid Amjadi
move to compel Respondent Farmers Insurance
to arbitrate pursuant to the Uninsured Motorist coverage of the automobile
insurance policy issued by Farmers to Petitions. 
The Court denied the petition without prejudice on January 20, 2023. 
Petitioners bring a motion for protective order re: phone records, and
request sanctions.
 TENTATIVE RULING           
Petitioners Mohsen Amjadi and Saeid Amjadi’s
motion for a protective order and request for sanctions is DENIED.            
ANALYSIS
Motion For Protective
Order
Discussion
Petitioners bring a motion for protective order re: phone records, and
request sanctions. Petitioners argues that Farmers should only be entitled to
the relevant data sought through the proper legal channels during the arbitration
discovery process, such as calls and text message to the specific number
provided by the driver of the other vehicle which collided into Petitioners.
            The
parties must apply to this Court for resolution of discovery disputes, and any
questions of coverage, before the arbitrable issues arise.
 
Insurance Code
§ 11580.2(f)(2) provides:
 
Any proper
court to which application is first made by either the insured or the insurer
under Title 4 (commencing with Section 2016.010) of Part 4 of the Code of
Civil Procedure for any discovery or other relief or remedy, shall
thereafter be the only court to which either of the parties shall make any
applications under Title 4 (commencing with Section 2016.010) of Part 4 of
the Code of Civil Procedure with respect to the same accident, subject,
however, to the right of the court to grant a change of venue after a hearing
upon notice, upon any of the grounds upon which change of venue might be
granted in an action filed in the superior court.
 
     (Ins. Code §
11580.2(f)(2).)
 
            Under Insurance Code §
11580.2(f)(2), the Superior Court has exclusive jurisdiction in discovery
disputes in uninsured motorist arbitrations:
 
We conclude the
court had the power to rule on the discovery dispute. And because we conclude
the Legislature could not have intended the arbitrator and the court to
possess concurrent power, the uninsured motorist law grants the superior court
the exclusive jurisdiction to hear discovery matters arising under uninsured
motorist arbitrations. Invested with the exclusive power to rule, and because
the uninsured motorist statute makes available “all rights, remedies,
obligations, liabilities and procedures set forth in [the Civil Discovery Act]”
(§ 11580.2, subd. (f)), the court necessarily had the power to dismiss the case
as a terminating sanction. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023, subds. (a)(7) &
(b)(4)(C).)


(Miranda v.
21st Century Ins. Co. (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 913, 926.)
 
            Here,
moving parties cite Civ. Proc. Code, § 2017.020(a) as the statutory authority
for this protective order. That section provides:
 
(a) The court shall limit the scope
of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of
that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought
will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. The court may make this
determination pursuant to a motion for protective order by a party or other
affected person. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.

     (Civ.
Proc Code, § 2017.020(a).)
 
            Here,
counsel for moving party did not submit a sufficient meet and confer
declaration regarding this protective order motion, as required by § 2017.020(a).
Counsel Mitra Chegini vaguely indicates that a meet and confer effort was made attempted
in May 2022. (Chegini Decl., ¶ 7.) However, the Declaration is dated April
14, 2023.  
 
            Moreover, moving
party has not demonstrated good cause for a protective order which would
prohibit the production of any phone records. Indeed, moving party makes a generalized
reference to the right of privacy, without engaging in the Hill balancing
test:
 
            The
California Supreme Court has held that a compelling
interest or compelling need is not always required in order to discover
private information—the Court must consider the factors articulated in Hill
v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994)  7 Cal.4th 1 to determine the
seriousness of the privacy invasion and the strength of the countervailing
interest required to overcome that invasion. (Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531.)
In ruling upon a privacy objection in the contact of
discovery, the party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally
protected privacy interest. (Williams,
supra, 3 Cal.5th at 552.) The party asserting a privacy right must also
establish an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances. (Id.) Further, the
party asserting a privacy right must establish a threatened intrusion that is
serious. (Id.)  The Court need not proceed to the fourth step
of balancing competing interests if all three of the above are not satisfied. (Id. at 555.) If the Court reaches the
fourth step, the Court must balance these competing considerations: The party
seeking information may raise whatever legitimate and important countervailing
interests disclosure serves.  (Id. at 552.) The party seeking
protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or
protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy.  (Id.)
Courts may not require the party seeking discovery to demonstrate a “compelling
state interest” or “compelling need[1]” simply because
discovery of any facially private information is sought.  (Id.
at 556-57.)
 
Marshalls argues Hill
v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn., supra, 7 Cal.4th 1 did not overrule the compelling
interest/compelling need test, but only concluded such an interest need
not be shown in every case. This is correct so far as it goes. A threatened
invasion of privacy can, to be sure, be extremely grave, and to the extent it
is, to conclude in a given case that only a compelling countervailing interest
and an absence of alternatives will suffice to justify the intrusion may be
right. (See, e.g., American Academy of Pediatrics v.
Lungren (1997) 16 Cal.4th 307, 340–342
[66 Cal. Rptr. 2d 210, 940 P.2d 797].) But the flaw in the Court of Appeal's legal analysis, and
in the cases it relied upon, is the de facto starting assumption that such an
egregious invasion is involved in every request for discovery of private
information. Courts must instead place the burden on the party asserting a
privacy interest to establish its extent and the seriousness of the prospective
invasion, and against that showing must weigh the countervailing interests the
opposing party identifies, as Hill requires. What suffices to justify an invasion will, as
Marshalls recognizes, vary according to the context. Only obvious invasions of
interests fundamental to personal autonomy must be supported by a compelling
interest. (Hill, at p. 34.) To the extent prior cases require a party
seeking discovery of private information to always establish a compelling
interest or compelling need, without regard to the other considerations
articulated in Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic
Assn., supra, 7 Cal.4th 1, they are disapproved. 


(Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.) 
            As such, the motion for a protective order and
request for sanctions is DENIED.            

