  Case Number:  20SMCV01196    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  205  
 
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles – West District 
Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205
 



 
WILLIAM P. HOWELL, as Trustee of the
  Howell Family Trust,  
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON, et al.,  
 
                        Defendants.


 
 
  Case No.:  20SMCV01196 
 
  Hearing Date:  October 15, 2024
  [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
  plaintiff’s motion for jury view 
  of property



 
BACKGROUND
This lawsuit arises from property damage
connected to work performed by Defendant Southern California Edison’s (“SCE’s”)
outside contractor, Defendant Edison Power Constructors, Inc. (“EPC”).  While replacing a deteriorated SCE utility
pole on Topanga Canyon Boulevard, EPC inadvertently drilled into an underground
drainage culvert owned by Defendant Caltrans, and then set the replacement pole
into the broken pipe.  When EPC
discovered the damage, it attempted to stabilize the pole with foam and gravel,
which further congested the culvert. 
During a subsequent rainstorm, the blockage to the culvert caused a
mudslide on Plaintiff William Howell’s property located downgradient from the
damaged pipe.  
This hearing is on Plaintiff’s motion for
jury view of the property.  Plaintiff
argues that a jury view would aid the jury in deciding the case as it will be
critical for the jury to understand the layout of the property and see for themselves
what the area and slopes look like. 
Plaintiff also requests that the Court order Caltrans to remove the
sandbags, scaffolding and visqueen covering the sloped areas in advance of the
jury view.    
LEGAL
STANDARD
Code Civ. Proc. § 651 provides:
(a) On its
own motion or on the motion of a party, where the court finds that such a view
would be proper and would aid the trier of fact in its determination of the
case, the court may order a view of any of the following:
(1) The property which is the subject of litigation.
(2) The place where any relevant event occurred.
(3) Any
object, demonstration, or experiment, a view of which is relevant and
admissible in evidence in the case and which cannot with reasonable convenience
be viewed in the courtroom. 
(b) On
such occasion, the entire court, including the judge, jury, if any, court
reporter, if any, and any necessary officers, shall proceed to the
place, property, object, demonstration, or experiment to be viewed.
The court shall be in session throughout the view. At the view, the
court may permit testimony of witnesses. The proceedings at the view
shall be recorded to the same extent as the proceedings in the courtroom.
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff contends that a jury view of the property will
be helpful.  According to Plaintiff, it
will benefit the jury to see the layout of the property including relative
positions of the driveway, slopes and culvert, how the culvert drains onto the
slopes, etc.  Plaintiff also argues there
is no risk of prejudice due to changed conditions because the continuing
degradation of the slope is one of the key issues the jury will need to
consider in determining causation and damages. 

Defendants
Southern California Edison (“SCE”) and Caltrans argue that the condition of the
slopes at the time of the flooding/culvert incident is different from what it
is now.  But Defendants fail to address
Plaintiff’s argument that the continuing degradation of the slope is one of the
issues in the determination of causation and damages.  
Notwithstanding,
the Court agrees with Defendants that a site visit is unnecessary where there
is extensive evidence including photographs, videotapes, animations, surveys,
geological studies, topographic data, reports and diagrams that document the
Property and the alleged damage to it.  The
jury can easily understand the “dynamics and layout of the property” by viewing
this evidence.  
The
Court must take into account the availability of this evidence when considering
the cost and time it would take to transport all the jurors, attorneys, parties
and court personnel to the site and back. 
Defendant Caltrans also points out Plaintiff would have Caltrans remove
the visqueen and sandbag for the jury view, which Caltrans would then have to
put back on.  Caltrans represents it
would take a two to three man crew about a half a day to remove and presumably
the same amount of time to put back on.  Plaintiff
has not offered to reimburse Caltrans for any of these costs. 
CONCLUSION
            For the foregoing reasons, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s
motion for jury view of the property. 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED: October 15, 2024                                                   ___________________________
Edward
B. Moreton, Jr.
Judge
of the Superior Court