 Case Number:  22AHCV00192    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



PAULINE YIP, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
EASTERN
   HORIZON, LLC,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  22AHCV00192
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE  
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

September
   20, 2023




 


 


 



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION  
On April 4, 2022, plaintiff Pauline Yip
(“Yip”) filed this action (the “Lead Case”) against Eastern Horizon LLC (“Eastern
Horizon”) for breach of contract relating to a single-family residence located
at 37 Twiggs in Irvine, California (the “Subject Property”). Yip alleges that
Eastern Horizon has refused to sell the Subject Property to her at an
agreed-upon price.  On August 9, 2022,
Eastern Horizon filed a cross-complaint relating to the Subject Property against
Yip and Home Surface, Inc. dba Spectrum Realty (“Spectrum”) for breach of a
lease agreement and listing agreement, breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing, breach of fiduciary duty, and declaratory relief.  
          On August 9, 2023,
this action was deemed related to the action captioned Pauline Yip v.
Eastern Horizon, LLC, et al. (Case No. 23STCV18152) (the “Related Case”).  This Related Case is brought against Eastern
Horizon, Chong Ding aka Virginia Ding (“Ding”), and Joy Wang as the trustee of
the 2004 Anchen Gift Trust Dated December 23, 2004.  Yip asserts claims for fraud, negligent
misrepresentation, quiet title, cancellation of instrument, declaratory relief,
and equitable indemnity relating to the same Subject Property underlying the
Lead Case. 
          On August 23, 2023, Yip filed this
motion to consolidate the Lead Case and the Related Case for all purposes,
including trial.  
          Eastern Horizon filed an opposition
brief on September 7, 2023. 
          Yip filed a reply brief on September
18, 2023. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
          Cases may be
consolidated in the court’s discretion when they involve “a common question of
law or fact.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1048, subd. (a); Todd-Stenberg v. Dalkon
Shield Claimants Trust (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 976, 978-979.) When actions
involving a common question of law or fact are pending before the court, it may
order a joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue in the
actions; the Court may order all the actions consolidated and make such orders
concerning the proceedings as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 1048, subd. (a).)  Consolidation
serves two purposes: (1) to promote efficiency by avoiding unnecessary
duplication of proceedings, and (2) to avoid inconsistent resolution of the
same legal or factual issue.  (See Mueller
v. J.C. Penney Co. (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 713, 722; Garden Grove
Community Church v. Pittsburgh-Des Moines Steel Co. (1983) 140 Cal.App.3d
251, 262.)
III.       
DISCUSSION
Yip argues that both the Lead Case and
Related Case arise from a dispute over the title to the Subject Property and
will involve common questions of law and fact surrounding the same transaction.
Yip contends that the same witnesses and evidence will be introduced in both
cases and that consolidation will avoid the duplication of resources, such as
the use of a court interpreter, and avoid inconsistent testimony and rulings. 
Eastern Horizon opposes consolidation
as “premature” because the defendants in the Related Case have not been served
and have not yet appeared.  Eastern
Horizon cites to Chamberlain v Wakefield (1949) 95 Cal.App.2d 280,
290-291, in which the appellate court held that a trial court did not abuse its
discretion by denying a motion to consolidate because the defendants in the
second action had not yet been served.  This
argument is unpersuasive because on September 11, 2023, Yip filed a proof of
service of summons in the Related Case showing that Ding was served by
substituted service on September 8, 2023.  Yip argues in her reply brief that the Lead
Case and Related Case involve defendants that are controlled by Ding and
represented by the same counsel, Safarian Choi & Bolstad, LLP.  (Reply, p. 3.)  
The cases may not be at issue yet, but
Yip has shown (and Eastern Horizon does not dispute) that both the Lead Case
and the Related Case involve similar issues and parties.  Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Yip’s motion to
consolidate.    
IV.        
CONCLUSION
The
motion to consolidate is GRANTED.  Case
No. 22AHCV00192 is the lead case and all papers are to be filed in this action.
 All dates in the Related Case are
vacated. 
Dated
this 20th
day of September, 2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.