  Case Number:  19STCV39598    Hearing Date:   September 20, 2023    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MARTINA A. SILAS, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
ACE
   HARDWARE CORPORATION, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  19STCV39598
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL INSPECTION OF SUBJECT PRODUCT OR, IN THE
   ALTERNATIVE, MOTION TO COMPEL DEMAND FOR PRODUCTION 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.

September
   20, 2023




 


 


 



 
          On June 23,
2023, defendants/cross-complainants Ace Hardware Corporation and The Grommet (collectively,
“Defendants”) filed this motion for an order compelling plaintiff Martina Silas
(“Plaintiff”) to produce the active noise-cancelling ear plugs (the “Subject
Product”) that are the subject of this litigation.  On April 22, 2022, Defendants demanded to
inspect the Subject Product as part of its Request for Production of Documents
(the “First Demand”).  (Diaz Decl., Ex.
A.) Plaintiff served a response on May 27, 2022, objecting to the First Demand
as vague and not in compliance with the statute governing the inspection of
tangible things.  (Diaz Decl., Ex. B.) Plaintiff
also stated: 
To
the extent Plaintiff makes the product available, there are chain of custody
issues that must be worked out; agreements regarding how the original Product
would be shipped, to whom it would be shipped, whose hands it would pass
through, where it will be during what times, what precautions will be taken
with it, and when and if it will be returned [plaintiff demands it be returned
a reasonable time prior to trial;. Plaintiff still needs the Product for her
own testing purposes, and it 
testing must be handled appropriately.
          On
December 27, 2023, Defendants served a demand to inspect the Subject Product on
January 30, 2023 (the “December Demand”). 
(Diaz Decl., Ex. C.)  Plaintiff
refused to allow the inspection on the grounds that Defendants failed to file a
motion to compel further response to the First Demand within the 45-day period
to do so.  (See Diaz Decl., Ex. D, Meet
and Confer Correspondence.)  
          Subsequently,
on March 1, 2023, Defendants noticed Plaintiff’s deposition and included a
demand to produce the Subject Product (“Deposition Demand”).  (Diaz Decl., Ex. E.)  Plaintiff served objections to the deposition notice
on March 30, 2023.  (Diaz Decl., Ex. F.)  
          The
parties attended an IDC on June 6, 2023, and this motion was filed on June 23,
2023.  
A.  
Motion to
Compel Compliance
In
meet and confer correspondence, Defendants argued that Plaintiff’s previous
objections to their First Demand were valid and that had they moved to compel
production, the motion would have been denied, therefore, the December Demand
for inspection is not a renewed demand, but a wholly distinct one which
addresses Plaintiff’s previous objections and not subject to the 45-day
deadline.  (Id.) In the
alternative, Defendants argue that there is no deadline because Plaintiff
previously indicated that she would comply with the First Demand inspection if
several conditions were met. 
Code
Civ. Proc. § 2031.030 requires the demanding party to specify a reasonable time
and place for the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, and “[s]pecify any
inspection, copying, testing, sampling, or related activity that is being
demanded, as well as the manner in which that activity will be performed, and
whether that activity will permanently alter or destroy the item involved.”  Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.220 provides that a
statement of compliance shall state “that the production, inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, and related activity demanded, will be allowed either in
whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category
that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no
objection is being made will be included in the production.”  Section 2031.240 requires a responding party
to object by stating “with particularity any . . . , tangible item . . . falling
within any category of item in the demand to which an objection is being made”
and “[s]et forth clearly the extent of, and the specific ground, for the
objection.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.240.)  
Plaintiff
objected to Defendants’ first demand for the Subject Product because the demand
did “not contain any of the required information regarding what type of
“testing” will be done, by whom, where, when, and for how long defendants [sic]
are asking to have the original Product out of Plaintiff’s possession and
control.”  (Diaz Decl, Ex. B, p. 3.)  Plaintiff suggests she is willing to produce
the Subject Product available if Defendants addressed certain issues regarding the
chain of custody and the form of testing, but her response is not a model
statement of compliance as defined by statute. 
(Id.)  Therefore, to the
extent that Defendants wish for the Court to issue an order “compliant with the
parameters and conditions set forth in [Plaintiff’s] response” to the First
Demand, the Court is unable to do so because the statement of compliance is
incomplete.  
Defendants
claim that they addressed Plaintiff’s concerns about chain of custody and
testing parameters when they served their December Demand and Deposition Demand,
but the Court disagrees.  The First
Demand and the December Demand are vague and do not specify what kind of
“non-destructive” testing is to occur.  The
Deposition Demand is more specific, but still deficient in detail because it
does not specify the kind of inspection or testing that would be performed and
how long it would take.  These types of
issues would typically be handled when the parties met and conferred, but
Plaintiff has improperly argued that Defendants are jurisdictionally barred
from seeking a “further response” Therefore, Defendants’ motion for an order
compelling Plaintiff to produce the Subject Product in accordance with either
the December Demand or the Deposition Demand is also denied. 
However,
Plaintiff’s assertion that Defendants are jurisdictionally barred from any further
attempts to inspect the Subject Product is not well-taken.  Defendant’s prior demands were too vague and
if they had filed a motion to compel a further response to either of these
demands on the grounds that Plaintiff’s objections were meritless, the motion
would have been denied.  This does not
preclude Defendants from drafting a demand for production which is more
specific in scope.  Plaintiff relies on Professional
Career Colleges, Magna Institute, Inc. v. Superior Court (1989) 207
Cal.App.3d 490, 494, which is inapposite because it addressed a different
discovery device; specifically, a second special interrogatory that both
parties assumed “was for all intents and purposes the same as the first.”  Here, a Code-compliant demand would, by
definition, not be “for all intents and purposes the same as the [earlier
demands].” 
Accordingly,
although the Court denies Defendants’ motion, it does so without adopting
Plaintiff’s interpretation of any jurisdictional deadline by which Defendants
may compel the production of the Subject Product for inspection and
testing.  Additionally, if Defendants serve
another inspection demand which specifically identifies the time, place, and
manner of inspection or testing, the Court finds good cause to grant
Defendants’ leave to specify an earlier date of production, as long as it is at
least 5 days after service of the demand.  
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.030, subd. (c)(2).)  
Defendants’
motion is DENIED. 
Both
parties’ request for sanctions are DENIED. 
Dated
this 20th
 day of September, 2023
 




 


 




 


       William A.
  Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear
at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and
argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
 