 Case Number:  23STCV31730    Hearing Date:   August 5, 2024    Dept:  55 Proceeding: Defendants' Demurrer to ComplaintBACKGROUND
This case arises out of an employment relationship.
Plaintiff Aveon Goosby (“Plaintiff”) was employed with Defendants Panda
Restaurant Group, Inc., and Panda Express, Inc. (“Defendants”), between
November 2021 and June 2022. Plaintiff claims that he was wrongfully terminated
after informing a human resources representative that he and other employees
under the age of 18 were routinely required to work hours not allowed under
Labor Code Section 1391. Plaintiff alleges Defendants required Plaintiff and
other minors to work more than four hours on schooldays and after 10:00 p.m. on
days preceding a schoolday.
Defendants demur to
each cause of action alleged in Plaintiff’s Complaint. Plaintiff opposes the
demurrer to the first and second causes of action but not to the third cause of
action.
Meet and
Confer
Defendants’ meet and
confer efforts were sufficient as Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a), and section 435.5, subdivision (a), require meeting and
conferring “in person or by telephone.” On March 1, 2024, Defense counsel and
Plaintiff’s counsel discussed the grounds for demurrer by telephone.
(Declaration of Vivian Shen, ¶¶ 4,5.)
Legal
Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the
legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer
can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading
under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury
Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court
may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or
documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of
ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2
Cal.4th 962, 967), but the Court does not “assume the truth of contentions,
deductions, or conclusions of fact or law” (Moore
v. Regents of University of California (1990) 51 Cal.3d 120, 125).
Code of Civ. Proc. §430.10(f)
provides for a demurrer where a pleading is uncertain. Demurrers for
uncertainty are disfavored and are only sustained where a pleading is so
incomprehensible a defendant cannot reasonably respond. (A.J. Fistes v. GDL
Best Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695; Khoury v. Maly’s
of California (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  “
 
ANALYSIS
First Cause
of Action: Whistleblower Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code § 1102.5
Defendants contend that
the first cause of action for whistleblower retaliation in violation of Labor
Code §1102.5(b) does not contain sufficient facts to state a claim. This claim requires
a showing that Plaintiff engaged in a protected activity, the employer
subjected Plaintiff to adverse employment action, and there is a causal link
between the two. (Patten v. Grant Joint Union High School Dist. (2005)
134 Cal.App.4th 1378, 1384.)
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
required him and other minors to work hours not allowed under Labor Code
section 1391. (Compl., ¶  12.) He further
alleges that: (1) he complained to his manager, Bee Yang (“Yang”) of the hours
worked, (2) that the area coach, Argie Santoyo acknowledged that the hours
worked should not be required, and (3) that he informed a human resources
representative that visited the store in or around April of 2022, that he and
other employees under the age of 18 were required to work more than four hours
on schooldays and after 10:00 p.m. on days preceding schooldays. (Compl., ¶
17.) Plaintiff alleges that he continued to complain to Yang about the hours he
and other minors worked and was wrongfully terminated in retaliation of these
statements. (Id.). These factual allegations adequately describe Plaintiff’s
belief that Defendants required him and other minors to work hours not permitted
by Labor Code section 1391, that he complained about it to his managers, the conduct
continued, and he was terminated shortly thereafter. This is sufficient to
state a claim. Defendants’ contention that minors can work longer hours if they
have work permits is a factual issue not appropriate for a demurrer. Nor is Defendants’
contention that Plaintiff’s allegations do not establish a causal connection
between his complaints and termination.
Defendants also argue that the claim is uncertain though they fail to
specify where the uncertainty appears by reference to page line and numbers in
the Complaint. In any event, the allegations adequately apprise Defendants of
the factual basis for his claim. 
Based on the foregoing,
Plaintiff’s demurrer to the first cause of action is overruled.
Second
Cause of Action: Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy
Defendants contend this claim fails because it is derivative
of the first cause of action. As discussed above, the first cause of action does
adequately state a claim and so the second cause of action also stands.
 
Third Cause
of Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
Plaintiff concedes that
the third cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress is
barred by the exclusive remedies of the Workers’ Compensation Act. The Corut
therefore sustains this cause of action without leave to amend. 
CONCLUSION
The demurrer is overruled as to the first and second causes
of action. The demurrer to the third cause of action is sustained without leave
to amend. Twenty days to answer. 