

 
            This is an
action for breach of contract arising from real estate commissions. In the original
Complaint, Plaintiff
Anderson Real Estate Group (Plaintiff) alleged that Defendant KJ Ticehurst (Ticehurst)
owes Plaintiff $67,729.75 in commission arising from her Team Member Agreement
– Buyer Specialist (Agreement) with Plaintiff. Plaintiff further alleged that
Defendants Coralyn Wahlberg, Claudia Pardon, and Think Re Management, Inc.
(collectively, Defendants Think) engaged in fraudulent actions to prevent
Plaintiffs’ collection of these real
estate commissions. 
 
The Second Amended Complaint pleaded
causes of action for (1.) breach of contract, (2.) fraud (concealment), (3.)
tortious interference with contract, (4.) misappropriation of trade secrets, and
(5.) tortious interference with prospective economic advantage. 
 
            Defendants
Think demurred to the second, third, and fifth causes of action in the Second
Amended Complaint. The demurrer was sustained as to the second and fifth causes
of action and overruled as to the third cause of action.  
 
            The Third
Amended Complaint contains causes of action for (1.) breach of contract, (2.)
fraud (concealment), (3.) tortious interference with contract, (4.)
misappropriation of trade secrets, (5.) tortious interference with prospective
economic advantage, and (6.) unfair business practices.
 
            Defendants
Think now demur to the third, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action in the
Third Amended Complaint. Plaintiff opposes the demurrer. 
 
The demurrer is overruled in part
and sustained in part.  
 
Legal Standard for
Demurrers
 
A demurrer is an objection to a pleading, the grounds for
which are apparent from either the face of the complaint or a matter of which
the court may take judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a);
see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The purpose of
a demurrer is to challenge the sufficiency of a pleading by raising questions
of law. (Postley v. Harvey (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 280,
286.) “In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining
its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to
substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) The
court “ ‘ “treat[s] the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly
pleaded, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law . . . .”
’ ”  (Berkley v. Dowds (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 518, 525.) In
applying these standards, the court liberally construes the complaint to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated. (Picton v.
Anderson Union High School Dist. (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 726, 733.)
 
Analysis
 
Third Cause of Action for Tortious Interference with
Contract:
 
            Defendants
Think demur to the third cause of action on the grounds that Plaintiff has
failed to state a claim and because the claim is preempted by the Uniform Trade
Secrets Act (USTA) (Civ. Code, § 3426, et seq.).
 
“The
elements which a plaintiff must plead to state the cause of action for
intentional interference with contractual relations are (1) a valid contract
between plaintiff and a third party; (2) defendant's knowledge of this
contract; (3) defendant's intentional acts designed to induce a breach or
disruption of the contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of
the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting damage.” (Pacific Gas &
Electric Co. v. Bear Stearns & Co. (1990) 50 Cal.3d 1118, 1126.)
 
The Court
previously overruled Defendants Think’s demurrer to this cause of action as
alleged in the Second Amended Complaint. 
 
Now, on this
demurrer, Defendants Think argues that Plaintiff has failed to allege “independently
wrongful” conduct to support this claim – which was the basis that the Court previously
sustained the demurrer to the fifth cause of action for Tortious Interference
with Prospective Economic Advantage. 
 
However, Defendants
Think’s argument is not supported by the law. As explained in Korea Supply
Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, which is cited by
Defendants Think:
 
“In the
present case, even if KSC could have alleged a contractual relationship with
MacDonald Dettwiler, its claim was properly brought as one for interference
with prospective economic advantage. As we explain below, however, a plaintiff
that chooses to bring a claim for interference with prospective economic
advantage has a more rigorous pleading burden since it must show that the
defendant's conduct was independently wrongful.” (Korea Supply Co. v.
Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1158.) 
 
            Thus,
contrary to Defendants Think’s argument on demurrer, a claim for tortious
interference with a contractual relationship does not (generally) require
showing “independent wrongful” conduct. (Ixchel Pharma, LLC v. Biogen, Inc.
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 1130, 1141; Popescu v. Apple Inc. (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th
39, 63; Della Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (1995) 11
Cal.4th 376, 393.) 
 
            Therefore, for the reasons stated in the Court’s previous
ruling to this cause of action, the demurrer is overruled. 


Fourth Cause of Action for
Misappropriation of Trade Secrets
 
            Defendants Think
also demur to the fourth cause of action for Misappropriation of Trade Secrets on
multiple grounds.
 
The demurrer to the fourth cause of
action argues that the claim is time barred under the three-year statute of
limitations set forth in Civil Code section 3426.6. On July 14, 2024, the Court
sustained Defendants Think’s demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action for
Misappropriation of Trade Secrets in the Complaint on the grounds it failed
adequately to allege the nature of the misappropriated trade secrets. Thereafter,
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint and Defendants Think filed another
demurrer, While the demurrer to the First Amended Complaint was pending,
Plaintiff filed a motion for leave to file a Second Amended Complaint, which the
Court granted. In this Second Amended Complaint, Plaintiff did not allege the
Fourth Cause of Action for Misappropriation of Trade Secrets against Defendants
Think. On these grounds, Defendants Think argues that Plaintiff voluntarily
dismissed them from the Misappropriation of Trade Secrets cause of action
through its Second Amended Complaint. (See Fireman's
Fund Ins. Co. v. Sparks Construction, Inc. (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1135, 1142
[“It has long been the rule that an amended complaint that omits defendants
named in the original complaint operates as a dismissal as to them.”].) Then, when Plaintiff filed a Third Amended
Complaint that alleged the Fourth Cause of Action for Misappropriation of Trade
Secrets against Defendants Think, the claim was time barred. 
 
The Third Amended Complaint was
filed on March 15, 2024, but the allegations in the pleading show that Plaintiff
was aware of Defendant Ticehurst’s alleged use of Plaintiff’s trade secret no
later than July 17, 2020 – more than three years before. (TAC ¶ 35, Ex. 8.) Thus,
on this basis, Defendants Think’s demurrer is well taken. 
 
However, in opposition, Plaintiff argues
that the fourth cause of action for Misappropriation of Trade Secrets “relates
back” to the filing of the original complaint, which was filed on December 30,
2022 (within the three-year statute of limitations period). 
 
Defendants Think point to no
authority in which a California state court held that the voluntary dismissal
of a cause of action precluded the application of the relation-back doctrine.
 
In
determining whether the amended complaint alleges facts that are sufficiently
similar to those alleged in the original complaint, the critical inquiry is
whether the defendant had adequate notice of the claim based on the original
pleading. “The policy behind statutes of limitations is to put defendants on
notice of the need to defend against a claim in time to prepare a fair defense
on the merits. This policy is satisfied when recovery under an amended
complaint is sought on the same basic set of facts as the original pleading.
[Citation.]” (Garrison v. Board of Directors (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 1670,
1678; accord Lamont v. Wolfe (1983) 142 Cal.App.3d 375, 379; see Benfield
v. Mocatta Metals Corp. (2d Cir.1994) 26 F.3d 19, 23 [finding that for
relation-back doctrine to apply, “there must be a sufficient commonality” of
alleged acts of wrongdoing to preclude a claim of “unfair surprise”].)
Additionally, in applying the relation-back analysis, courts should consider
the “strong policy in this state that cases should be decided on their merits.”
(Idding v. North Bay Construction Co. (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1111, 1114; Smeltzley
v. Nicholson Mfg. Co. (1977) 18 Cal.3d 932, 939.)
 
In reply,
Defendants Think, citing Espinosa v. Superior Court (1988) 202 Cal.App.3d 409, suggests
that the TAC alleges different accidents. According to Defendants, the
“accidents” are allegations of trade secret misappropriation and “utilizing
knowledge of TICEHURST’s commissions as an unlawful competitive advantage.” These,
Defendants argue, are different instrumentalities and different injuries which
preclude the application of the relation back doctrine. 
 
The Court disagrees. The
Complaint seeks recovery for the same injuries as alleged in the Third Amended
Complaint based on the same nucleus of allegations. (Compare Compl., ¶¶
5-24, 45-55 with TAC ¶¶ 13-44, 72-87.)  There is greater detail in the allegations in
the Third Amended Complaint. Nonetheless, “[t]he criterion of relation back is
whether the original complaint gave the defendant enough notice of the nature
and scope of the plaintiff's claim that he shouldn't have been surprised by the
amplification of the allegations of the original complaint in the amended one.”
(Pointe San Diego Residential Community, L.P. v. Procopio, Cory, Hargreaves
& Savitch, LLP (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 265, 279 [citing Santamarina
v. Sears, Roebuck & Co. (7th Cir. 2006) 466 F.3d 570, 573].) 
 
            Lastly, the
demurrer argues that the trade secret claim fails to allege a protected trade
secret and the misappropriation claims are completely undermined by Exhibit 8,
which was attached by Plaintiff to the Third Amended Complaint.
 
            “A violation
of the UTSA occurs when an individual misappropriates a former employer's
protected trade secret client list, for example, by using the list to solicit
clients or to otherwise attain an unfair competitive advantage.” (Reeves v.
Hanlon (2004) 33 Cal.4th 1140, 1155.) 
 
            Defendants
Think argue that Exhibit
8 shows that Defendant Ticehurst had prior interactions with these clients. Citing
Moss, Adams & Co. v. Shilling (1986) 179 Cal.App.3d 124, Defendants
Think suggests that the allegations in the TAC all indicate that Defendant Ticehurst
had prior personal relationships with various clients, such that the involvement
of these clients in the eleven at issue transactions cannot form the basis of
the misappropriation of trade secret claims.
 
            Defendants
Think’s argument is not well taken. In Moss, Adams, two
accountants who started their own business used their former firm’s customer
information to contact the clients they had served. (Id. at pp.
126–127.) The court held that the customer information was not a trade secret
“because the clients became known through [the former employees'] personal
contact and provision of accounting services.” (Id. at p. 129.)
 
However, two
post-UTSA decisions have rejected this reasoning. 
 
In American
Credit, the court held that “the fact that an employee personally renders
service to a customer of an employer is not determinative of the trade secret
issue.... In fact, it is against those very employees who personally service
customers that employers are most in need of protection.” (American Credit
Indemnity Co. v. Sacks (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 622, 636.) 
 
In Morlife,
the court held, “Moss, Adams did not appropriately recognize that
information developed by an employee concerning the employer's customers
represents an investment of time and money on the part of the employer.”
(Morlife, Inc. v. Perry (1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 1514, 1526.) “In the case
of a former employee who attempts to use personal customer contacts for
personal benefit upon going into competition with the former employer, ‘[i]t is
this personal acquaintance and additional influence of the friendship developed
during [this] employment ... which makes solicitation of former customers by
appellant so unfair to his former employer. [Citations.]’ “ (Ibid. [emphasis
in original])
 
            Based on
the foregoing legal authority, Defendants Think’s argument fails as a matter of
law. For this reason and given the greater detail provided as to the nature of
the trade secrets alleged in the Third Amended Complaint generally, the Court
finds that trade secret allegations are sufficient to state a claim. (TAC ¶¶ 35-36,
40, 72-86.) 
 
            The demurer
to the fourth cause of action is overruled. 
 
Fifth Cause of Action for Tortious
Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage:
 
            Defendants
Think also demur to the fifth cause of action on grounds that Plaintiff has
failed to allege sufficient facts to state a claim.
 
“The tort of
intentional or negligent interference with prospective economic advantage
imposes liability for improper methods of disrupting or diverting the business
relationship of another which fall outside the boundaries of fair competition.
[Citation.] It is premised upon the principle, ‘ “[e]veryone has the right to
establish and conduct a lawful business and is entitled to the protection of
organized society, through its courts, whenever that right is unlawfully
invaded.” ’ ” (Settimo Associates v. Environ Systems, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 842, 845.) The elements of the tort include “(1) an economic
relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the probability
of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's knowledge of
the relationship; (3) intentional acts on the part of the defendant designed to
disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5)
economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the acts of the
defendant.” (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th
1134, 1153, 1164–1165.)
 
            To
meet the third element, a plaintiff must demonstrate intentional acts by the
defendant, that are wrongful apart from the interference itself, designed to
disrupt the relationship; this element requires a showing that the defendant
“engaged in conduct that was wrongful by some legal
measure other than the fact of interference itself” such as “conduct that
is recognized as anticompetitive under established state and federal positive
law.” (Della Penna v. Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A., Inc. (1995) 11 Cal.4th
376, 393; see also S Products, Inc. v. Matsushita Electric Corp. of America
(2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 168.) An act is not made independently wrongful merely
because of improper motives. (Korea Supply Co., supra, 29 Cal.4th at p.
1158.)
 
            Here,
the TAC again fails
to allege independently tortious conduct to support the interference element.
 
            As the
Court noted in its previous ruling on the demurrer, the allegations that
Defendants THINK “enticed” Defendant Ticehurst to use them as broker for the
eleven transactions at issue by offering “an exceptionally low commission on
these transactions” does not satisfy the independently wrongful element of this
tort where Plaintiff has not demonstrated that offering Ticehurst a more
competitive commission structure was wrongful by some legal measure other than the
fact of interference itself. (TAC ¶ 67.) 
 
            Further,
this cause of action also relies on the misappropriation of trade secret
allegations that “Defendants
TICEHURST,  WAHLBERG, and PARDON utilized
Plaintiffs trade secrets and employed unlawful and unfair business practices to
facilitate the eleven transactions shortly after each of them had  left AREG and obtained the clients and leads
through connection with AREG.” (TAC ¶ 68.)
 
             The UTSA’s preemption provision
lists certain remedies that the statute does not preempt, including contract
remedies, criminal penalties, and civil remedies that are not based on the
misappropriation of a trade secret. (Civ. Code § 3426.7.) Using that language,
California courts have interpreted the statute to preempt civil remedies that
are based on trade secret misappropriation. (K.C. Multimedia, Inc. v. Bank
of America Technology & Operations, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal. App. 4th 939,
954.) The determination of whether UTSA preempts a civil claim therefore rests
on whether the claim is based on trade secret misappropriation. 
 
As discussed
above, the intentional interference claim relies in part on the misappropriation
of trade secret claim as the basis for the “independently wrongful conduct.”
Thus, the claim is preempted to that extent. 


            Accordingly,
the demurrer to this cause of action is sustained.
 
Sixth Cause of Action for Unfair Business Practices
 
            The UCL
prohibits “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act.” (Bus. & Prof.
§ 17200.) A
business practice need only satisfy one of the three criteria—unlawful, unfair,
or fraudulent—to be considered unfair competition. (McKell v. Wash. Mut.,
Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1470-1471.) 
 
First, to
state a claim under the “unfair” prong, the allegation must show conduct that
“offends an established public policy or…is immoral, unethical, oppressive,
unscrupulous or substantially injurious to consumers.” (People v. Vasa
Blanca Convalescent Homes, Inc. (1984) 159 Cal.App.3d 509, 530.) California
authority, however, has “require[d] that the public policy which is a predicate
to the action…be ‘tethered’ to specific constitutional, statutory, or
regulatory provisions.” (Gregory v. Albertson’s, Inc. (2002) 104
Cal.App.4th 845, 854.) 
 
Second, the
“fraud” contemplated by section 17200's third prong bears little resemblance to
common law fraud or deception; rather, the test is whether the public is likely
to be deceived. (Mass. Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Super. Ct. (2002) 97
Cal.App.4th 1282, 1290.) “This means that a section 17200 violation, unlike
common law fraud, can be shown even if no one was actually deceived, relied
upon the fraudulent practice, or sustained any damage.” (South Bay Chevrolet
v. General Motors Acceptance Corp. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 861, 888.)
 
Finally,
“[a]n ‘unlawful’ business practice or act within the meaning of the UCL ‘is an
act or practice, committed pursuant to business activity, that is at the same
time forbidden by law. [Citation.]’ [Citation.] Further, “[b]y
proscribing ‘any unlawful’ business practice, ‘section 17200 “borrows”
violations of other laws and treats them as unlawful practices’ that the unfair
competition law makes independently actionable. [Citation.]” (Cel-Tech
Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20
Cal.4th 163, 180.)


            Moreover,
the court notes that remedies available to private plaintiffs under the UCL are
limited to injunctive relief and restitution. (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed
Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1144 [“We have stated that under the
UCL, ‘[p]revailing plaintiffs are generally limited to injunctive relief and
restitution.’ ”].) In order to establish an entitlement to restitution under
the UCL, a plaintiff must show: (1) that she had at one time “an ownership
interest” in the money or property she “lost” and (2) that money or property
must have been “acquired” by the defendant. (Kwikset Corp. v. Superior Court
(2011) 246 P.3d 877, 895.)  
 
            For
the reason discussed in the Court’s ruling on the fifth cause of action, the
misappropriation of trade secrets claim cannot form the basis of this UCL
claim. However, Plaintiff has also alleged a tortious interference with
contract claim against Defendants Think that does not rely solely on the
misappropriation of trade secrets allegations; thus, this claim may form the
basis of the UCL claim.
 
            The
demurrer to this cause of action is overruled. 
 
Conclusion
 
The demurrer
is sustained as to the fifth cause of action and overruled as to the third, fourth,
and sixth cause of action. Plaintiff shall not have leave to amend. Accordingly,
the fifth cause of action for tortious interference with prospective economic
damage is dismissed.