

 
            This is a malicious prosecution
action. Plaintiff Young Ja Cho (Plaintiff or Plaintiff Cho) sued Defendant
Hyoung Wook Ko (Defendant or Defendant Ko) for maliciously and frivolously
suing Plaintiff in an underlying civil litigation. The Complaint alleges causes
of action for (1.) malicious prosecution, and (2.) intentional infliction of
emotional distress. 
 
            On February 6, 2024, Defendant Ko filed
a Special Motion to Strike the Complaint pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 425.16 (anti-SLAPP motion). Plaintiff opposed the anti-SLAPP motion.
 
            Defendant’s request for judicial notice
of Exhibits 1-3 is granted. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) 
 
The
special motion to strike pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 is
granted.
 
Legal
Standard
 
“A cause of action against a person
arising from any act of that person in furtherance of the person’s right of petition
or free speech under the United States Constitution or the California
Constitution in connection with a public issue shall be subject to a special
motion to strike, unless the court determines that the plaintiff has
established that there is a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the
claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(1).) The purpose of the statute
is to identify and dispose of lawsuits brought to chill the valid exercise of a
litigant’s constitutional right of petition or free speech. (Code Civ. Proc., §
425.16, subd. (a); Sylmar Air
Conditioning v. Pueblo Contracting Services, Inc. (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th
1049, 1055-1056.)
 
Courts employ a two-step process to
evaluate special motions to strike strategic lawsuits against public
participation (SLAPP). (Equilon
Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 61.)  First, the defendant must show that the
challenged lawsuit arises from protected activity, such as an act in
furtherance of the right of petition or free speech. (Ibid.) “The moving defendant bears the burden of identifying all
allegations of protected activity, and the claims supported by them.” (Baral
v. Schmitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 396.) In the second step, it “
‘is then up to the plaintiff to rebut the presumption by showing a reasonable
probability of success on the merits.’ ” (Equilon,
supra, 29 Cal.4th at p.
61.) In determining whether the plaintiff has carried this burden, the
trial court considers “the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits
stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(2); see Soukup
v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 291 (Soukup).)
 
“Analysis of an anti-SLAPP motion is
not confined to evaluating whether an entire cause of action, as pleaded by the
plaintiff, arises from protected activity or has merit. Instead, courts should
analyze each claim for relief—each act or set of acts supplying a basis for
relief, of which there may be several in a single pleaded cause of action—to
determine whether the acts are protected and, if so, whether the claim they
give rise to has the requisite degree of merit to survive the motion.” (Bonni
v. St. Joseph Health System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1010.) 
 
Discussion
 
I.              
Arising
from Protected Activity
 
As outlined above, in the first step
of the analysis, Defendant Ko, the party moving to strike the Complaint, must
demonstrate that Plaintiff’s claims arise from one of four categories of protected
activity. An “ ‘act in furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free
speech under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a
public issue’ includes: (1) any written or oral statement or writing made
before a legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made
in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative,
executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by
law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the
public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4)
any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of
petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public
issue or an issue of public interest.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e).)
 
“As our Supreme Court has
recognized, ‘the “arising from” requirement is not always easily met.’
[Citation.] ‘[T]he mere fact that an action was filed after protected activity
took place does not mean the action arose from that activity for the purposes of
the anti-SLAPP statute. [Citation.] Moreover, that a cause of action arguably
may have been “triggered” by protected activity does not entail that it is one
arising from such.’ [Citation.] ‘A claim arises from protected activity when
that activity underlies or forms the basis for the claim. [Citations.]  Critically, “the defendant’s act underlying
the plaintiff’s cause of action must itself have been an act in furtherance of
the right of petition or free speech.” [Citations.]’ [Citation.] ‘[I]n ruling
on an anti-SLAPP motion, courts should consider the elements of the challenged
claim and what actions by the defendant supply those elements and consequently
form the basis for liability.’ [Citation.] Put another way, courts should first
identify ‘the allegedly wrongful and injury-producing conduct that provides the
foundation for the claims,’ and then determine whether that conduct itself
constitutes protected activity. [Citations.]” (Callanan v. Grizzly Designs,
LLC (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 517, 526 (Callanan) [citing Park, supra,
2 Cal.5th at pp. 1062-1063].) 
 
            Defendant
first argues that Plaintiff’s claims arise from protected activity under Code of
Civil Procedure section 425.16 because Plaintiff’s claims are premised on Defendant’s
petitioning activity of filing and prosecuting a lawsuit against Plaintiff. (Compl.,
¶¶ 16-24.)
 
            By definition, a malicious
prosecution suit alleges that the defendant committed a tort by filing a
lawsuit. (Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v. Bear Stearns & Co.
(1990) 50 Cal.3d 1118, 1130–1131.) Accordingly, it is well-established that malicious
prosecution causes of action fall within the purview of the anti-SLAPP statute.
(See, e.g., White v. Lieberman (2002) 103 Cal.App.4th 210, 220–221; Mattel,
Inc. v. Luce, Forward, Hamilton & Scripps (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 1179,
1188; Chavez v. Mendoza (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 1083, 1087–1088.)


            Further, the intentional
infliction of emotional distress claim also arises from Defendant’s action in
filing and maintaining his lawsuit against Plaintiff. (Compl., ¶¶ 33-37.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that her claims did not
satisfy the requirements of the first prong because the litigation does not involve
an issue of public concern. 
 
Plaintiff misunderstands the statutory requirements of
Section 425.16, subdivision (e)(1) and (e)(2). As explained in Sipple v. Foundation For
Nat. Progress (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 226, a defendant making a motion to strike under
section 425.16, subdivision (e)(1) and (2) need not separately demonstrate
that the statement concerned an issue of public significance.... [I]n
crafting the statute, the Legislature equated a ‘public issue’ with the
authorized official proceeding to which it connects.” (Sipple, supra, 71
Cal.App.4th at pp. 236–237 [emphasis added] [citing Briggs v. Eden Council
for Hope & Opportunity (1999) 19 Cal.4th 1106, 1118].)
 
Accordingly, Defendant has met his
burden of showing that Plaintiff’s claims arise from protected activity. 
 
II.           
Demonstrating Minimal Merit 
 
On the second component of the analysis, to defeat the anti-SLAPP
motion, Plaintiff must demonstrate that the complaint is both “ ‘legally
sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to
sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is
credited.’ ” (Soukup, supra,
39 Cal.4th at p. 291.) In this second step, courts employ a
“summary-judgment-like” procedure, “accepting as true the evidence favorable to
the plaintiff and evaluating the defendant’s evidence only to determine whether
the defendant has defeated the plaintiff’s evidence as a matter of law.” (Gerbosi v. Gaims, Weil, West & Epstein,
LLP (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 435, 444.) The Court does not assess
credibility, and the plaintiff is not required to meet the preponderance of the
evidence standard. The Court accepts as true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff,
who need only establish that his or her claim has “minimal merit” to avoid
being stricken as a SLAPP. (Soukup, supra,
39 Cal.4th at p. 291.) 
 
“ ‘To establish a cause of action
for the malicious prosecution of a civil proceeding, a plaintiff must plead and
prove that the prior action (1) was commenced by or at the direction of the
defendant and was pursued to a legal termination in his, plaintiff's, favor
...; (2) was brought without probable cause ...; and (3) was initiated with
malice....’” (Crowley v. Katleman (1994) 8 Cal.4th 666, 676 [citations
omitted].) “The actionable harm is in forcing the individual to expend
financial and emotional resources to defend against a baseless claim.” (Pacific
Gas & Electric Co. v. Bear Stearns Co. (1990) 50 Cal.3d 1118, 1131.)
 
The tort of malicious prosecution
also includes the act of “continuing to prosecute a lawsuit discovered to lack
probable cause.” (Zamos v. Stroud (2004) 32 Cal.4th 958, 973.)
“Continuing an action one discovers to be baseless harms the defendant and
burdens the court system just as much as initiating an action known to be
baseless from the outset.” (Id. at p. 969.) Thus, an attorney “may be
held liable for continuing to prosecute a lawsuit discovered to lack probable
cause.” (Id. at p. 960.) “Only those actions that any reasonable
attorney would agree are totally and completely without merit may form the
basis for a malicious prosecution suit.” (Id. at p. 970.) “The same
standard” applies “to the continuation as to the initiation of a suit.” (Ibid.)
 
             Thus, to
establish the second prong, Plaintiff is required to demonstrate her malicious
prosecution claim is “ ‘ “both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient
prima facie showing of facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence
[she submitted] is credited.” ‘ “ (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29
Cal.4th 82, 88-89; accord Zamos v. Stroud, supra, 32 Cal.4th at 965; Wilson
v. Parker, Covert & Chidester (2002) 28 Cal.4th 811, 821.) 
 
            Here, in support of
this second prong, Plaintiff submits evidence that Defendant Ko initiated a
lawsuit (LASC No. 20STCV17221) against Plaintiff. (Cho Decl., ¶ 4.) She states
that, in this underlying litigation, Defendant Cho brought claims of fraud,
conspiracy and intentional infliction of emotional distress against Plaintiff
Cho, alleging that she assisted in fabricating for someone else “‘Marital
Statements,’ which had forged signature of KO.” (Cho Decl., ¶ 5.) After trial,
the court found “on the complaint” “in favor of defendants Myoung Jin Kang, Young Ja Cho [Plaintiff
here], Joo Hee Park, Woo Bum Heo, and Soon Hyung Lee, and against plaintiff
Hyoung Wook Ko [Defendant here], on the first cause of action for fraud, the
second cause of action for civil conspiracy, and the third cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress.”’ (Def.’s RJN Ex. 3 [Statement of
Decision].) 
 
Plaintiff Cho asserts that she “absolutely never had known Hyoung
Wook Ko (KO), nor had [she] recognized other defendants.” (Cho Decl., ¶ 6.)

 
            This evidence is
insufficient to demonstrate minimal merit to Plaintiff’s malicious prosecution
claim. That is, even if this evidence is taken as true, it does not show that Defendant
Ko brought the underlying action without probable cause and with malice. None
of this evidence shows what Defendant subjectively believed to be true in bringing
this action.[1]
 
            Plaintiff
Cho also fails to meet her burden of showing minimal merit with respect to the
intentional infliction of emotional distress claim. While the reply argues that
Plaintiff has not met her burden of showing outrageous conduct, the Court
instead notes that – as in the underlying litigation – the litigation privilege
applies to this claim. (S.A. v. Maiden (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 27, 43
[finding a IIED claim was barred by the litigation privilege where the Complaint
also contained a malicious prosecution claim]; Civ. Code, 47, subd. (b).) Thus,
as a matter of law, this claim fails. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff has failed to
make a bare minimum prima facie showing for her claims and, therefore, has not
met her burden on the second prong. 
 
Conclusion
 
The special motion to
strike pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16 is granted.


