  Case Number:  21NWCV00133    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  C SAADIA SQUARE, LLC v.
ALL-WAYS PACIFIC, LLC
CASE
NO.:  21NWCV00133
HEARING:  09/21/23
 
#6
 
SM
Defendants’ Motion to Lift the Discovery Stay is DENIED. 
 
Opposing
Party to give Notice. 
 
Defendants
RIALTO MERRILL HOLDINGS, INC.; ALL-WAYS PACIFIC, LLC; ALL-WAYS FAR EAST, LLC;
and ALL-WAYS FORWARDING INTERNATIONAL, INC.’s Joinder to the Motion to Lift
Discovery Stay is GRANTED. 
 
SM
Defendants’ request to specially set its Motion for Determination of Privilege
and Motion to Compel Testimony for hearing on September 22, 2023 is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
SAADIA SQUARE, LLC (“Saadia”) filed this action against numerous Square Mile
and All-Ways entities (collectively “Defendants”) for: (1) Breach of Contract;
(2) Breach of Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (3) Intentional Interference;
(4) Specific Performance and Injunctive Relief; and (5) Declaratory Relief.
Saadia alleges that Defendants interfered with its Right of First Offer
(“ROFO”) for a property located in Rialto, California when the SM Defendants
sold the property to All-Ways under an option agreement.  
 
All-Ways
filed its Cross-Cross Complaint against Saadia on April 16, 2021 alleging
Tortuous Interference with Contract and seeking Declaratory Relief.  All-Ways contends that Saadia falsely
asserted a ROFO for the property in order to disrupt SM Defendants’ performance
under the option agreement with All-Ways.
 
Saadia
filed an anti-SLAPP Motion against the All-Ways’ Cross-Complaint claiming that the
conduct within the Cross-Complaint is protected by the litigation privilege. Consequently,
discovery for this entire action is stayed pursuant to CCP §425.16(g). 
 
SM
Defendants move for an order lifting the stay on discovery on the causes of
action asserted in Plaintiff Saadia’s Second Amended Complaint. SM argues that
Saadia’s Second Amended Complaint is not challenged by the pending Special
Motion to Strike.  
 
In
Opposition, Saadia argues: (1) the Motion is procedurally improper; (2)
Defendants improperly rely on a citation to a Superior Court opinion in support
of their Motion; and (3) the Court should exercise its discretion to deny the
Motion. 
 
First,
the Court does not find that the Motion is a procedurally improper motion for
reconsideration. This Court’s June 28, 2023 Order denying All Ways’ (not SM’s)
Motion for Relief from Discovery Stay expressly stated that “All-Ways is free
to renew its request.” 
 
Second,
the Court declines to sanction Saadia for including in its Motion citations
from a superior court ruling. 
 
As
to the merits, it is well-established that the anti-SLAPP Motion is intended to
be an expedited procedure that may terminate a lawsuit (in this instance, a
Cross-Complaint) before the collateral costs of litigation affect a
defendant/cross-defendant’s ability to participate in public matters. Lifting a
discovery stay of CCP §425.16(g) absent good cause would deprive a cross-defendant
of the benefit of the statute. A cross-complainant may make a timely and proper
showing in response to a Special Motion to Strike, that a cross-defendant or
witness possesses evidence needed by a cross-complainant to establish a prima
facie case—a cross-complainant must be given the reasonable opportunity to
obtain evidence through discovery before a Special Motion to Strike is
adjudicated. (See Lafayette Morehouse, Inc. v. Chronicle Publishing, Co.
(1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 855, 867-868.). Here, SM Defendants are not seeking to
lift the discovery stay to defend against a Special Motion to Strike.  SM Defendants are seeking to conduct
discovery in connection with Saadia’s Second Amended Complaint which, as SM Defendants
point out, will go forward regardless of the outcome of Saadia’s Special Motion
to Strike.  However, as Saadia points
out, its Second Amended Complaint and All-Ways’ Cross-Complaint involve
overlapping issues, most notably Saadia’s state of mind when he asserted the
ROFO.  Thus, at this juncture, the court
cannot allow discovery to go forward in connection with the Second Amended
Complaint without prejudice to Saadia.  
 
 
Accordingly,
SM Defendants have not demonstrated good cause to lift the discovery stay.  The motion is DENIED.  