 Case Number:  23NWCV00846    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  C DOE v. MAHMOUD
CASE NO.:  23NWCV00846 
HEARING:  09/21/23
 
#5
 
     I.       
Defendant ABC UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT’s Demurrer
to Plaintiff’s Complaint is SUSTAINED
with 30 days leave to amend. 
 
    II.       
Defendant ABC UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT’s Motion
to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint is MOOT.
 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
This personal injury action was filed by Plaintiff JOHN DOE,
a minor by and through his Guardian at litem, J.M.; J.M., an individual; and
T.M. an individual (collectively “Plaintiffs”) against Defendants ABC UNIFIED
SCHOOL DISTRICT; BOARD OF EDUCATION FOR ABC UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT; ZAKARIYA MAHMOUND,
an individual; J.D., a minor; J.P., a minor; and DOES 1-20 (collectively
“Defendants”) on March 17, 2023. 
 
Plaintiffs allege that “[o]n March 11, 2022, John Doe was
sitting in his 4th period class at Cerritos High School (‘CHS’) when 3 fellow
District students (not in this class’s enrollment)—Defendants JD, JM AND ZM –
entered the classroom without permission, rushed over to his desk, and all
three started punching John Doe repeatedly, in the head, face, and neck. John
Doe got up to attempt to defend himself and ward off the attackers. One of the
students also shoved John Doe onto a student desk. At least one of the
attackers was on suspension from ABCUSD as a result of a different fight on the
day before, and was allowed entry to the school by a classmate (believed to be
one of the other attackers) through an inactive/non-alarmed and unattended
emergency door at CHS that was not properly secured. Each student is believed
to have a history of violence and/or serious behavioral problems.” (Complaint
¶16.) “The classroom teacher, school security and other adult personnel did not
prevent or intervene in the attack.” (Complaint ¶17.) “John Doe suffered a
concussion, multiple contusions to his head, ear, and eye, and injury in the
lower back of his neck, injury in the arm/shoulder, pain in lower and middle
back, cuts/scrapes on the inside cheek and swollen/cut lip. His clothes and
prescription glasses were also damaged. As a result of the attack, John Doe was
too fearful for his safety to return to school and had to complete his courses
outside the regular curriculum and classes. He suffered and continues to suffer
emotional distress and trauma from the incident.” (Complaint ¶18.)  
 
Plaintiffs assert the following causes of action: 
 
1.   
Negligence Per Se; 
2.   
Negligence; 
3.   
Negligent Hiring, Training, and Supervision; 
4.   
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress; 
5.   
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; 
6.   
Battery; 
7.   
Parental Liability for Willful Misconduct by
Minor Pursuant to Educ. Code §48904; 
8.   
Parental Liability for Willful Misconduct by
Minor Pursuant to Civil Code §1714.1
 
Defendant ABC UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT (hereinafter “ABC”)
specially demurs to the first and second causes of action, and generally demurs
to the first, second, third, and fourth causes of action. 
 
ABC argues that Plaintiffs’ first and second claims are fatally
uncertain. This argument lacks merit because “[a] special demurrer for
uncertainty is not intended to reach the failure to incorporate sufficient
facts in the pleading, but is directed at the uncertainty existing in the
allegations actually made.” (Butler v. Sequeira (1950) 100 Cal.App.2d
143, 145-146.) Moreover, demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and will only
be sustained where the pleading is so bad that the defendant cannot reasonably
respond, i.e. he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or her. (Khoury
v. Maly’s of Calif. Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrer for
uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects
uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery
procedures.” (Ibid.) Here, it is clear from ABC’s other arguments that it
understands what the first and second causes of action at least attempt to
allege, and there is no true uncertainty. The demurrer is not sustained on the
basis of uncertainty. 
 
ABC also argues that it is immune from liability under Gov. Code §815. 
 
California Govt. Code §815 provides that “[a] public entity is not
liable for an injury, whether such injury arises out an act or omission of the
public entity or a public employee or any other person” except as provided by
statute. (Gov. Code §815(a).) “[D]irect tort liability of public entities must
be based on a specific statute declaring them to be liable or at lease creating
some specific duty of care, and not on the general tort provisions of Civil
Code section 1714. Otherwise, the general rule of immunity for public entities
would be largely eroded by the routine application of general tort principles.”
(Eastburn v. Regional Fire Protection Authority (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175,
1183.) Because the duty of a governmental agency can only be created by statute
or enactment, the statute or enactment claimed to establish the duty must at
the very least be identified. (Searcy v. Hemet Unified School Dist.
(1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 792, 802.) 
 
Here, ABC is a public entity, and thus, the heightened pleading requirements
for public entities apply. The Complaint does not identify any statutory grounds
for the negligence causes of action. No statutes addressing the mandatory
duties of the school district are identified. Plaintiffs must allege the
statutory basis for each cause of action in order to establish liability
against a public entity such as Defendant. 
 
Accordingly, the Demurrer is SUSTAINED with 30 days leave to amend. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
The Motion to Strike is rendered MOOT by the Court’s ruling
on the Demurrer above. 
 
 