 Case Number:  22NWCV01125    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  C GARCIA v.
NISSAN NORTH AMERICA, INC. 
CASE NO.:  22NWCV01125
HEARING:   09/21/23
#8
 
Defendant Nissan
North America, Inc.’s Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Proceedings is DENIED.
Opposing Party to give notice. 
No Reply filed as of September 18, 2023. 
Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED. (Cal. Ev. Code §452.)

Background
On October 22, 2019, Plaintiff purchased a 2019
Nissan Sentra. Plaintiff contends that the vehicle was defective and attempts
to repair the vehicle failed to cure the defects. On October 27, 2022, Plaintiff
filed a Complaint against Defendant alleging violations of Song-Beverly Act. 
Defendant NISSAN NORTH AMERICA, INC.
(“Defendant” or “Nissan”) now seeks to compel arbitration under the Retail
Installment Sales Contract (“RISC”) and its accompanying arbitration agreement.
Arbitration Agreement
Parties may be compelled to arbitrate a dispute
upon the court finding that: (1) there was a valid agreement to arbitrate
between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers the controversy or
controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿(Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co.
(2004)¿118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) A party moving to compel arbitration has the
burden of establishing the existence of a valid agreement to arbitrate and the
party opposing the petition has the burden of proving, by a preponderance of
the evidence, any fact necessary to its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc.
v. Superior Court¿(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 356-357.) 
Here, Defendant met its burden of proving a
valid arbitration agreement. Defendant attached a copy of the RISC. (Sharp
Decl., Ex. B.) The RISC contains an arbitration provision (the Arbitration
Agreement), which states: 
Either you or we may choose to have any dispute
between us decided by arbitration and not in court or by jury trial. . . . Any
claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including
the interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the
arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our employees,
agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit
application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any
resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with
third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be
resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action.” (Sharp
Decl., Ex. B.) 
 
Further, Plaintiff does not dispute that there
is a valid arbitration agreement. Thus, Defendant has met its burden of proving
that there is a valid arbitration agreement by attaching the claimed
Arbitration Agreement in the RISC to its motion. 
 
Equitable Estoppel
A nonsignatory manufacturer can compel
arbitration under equitable estoppel “when the causes of action against the
nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded in and intertwined’ with the underlying
contract obligations.” (Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (Felisilda) (2020)
53 Cal.App.5th 486, 495.) The causes of actions are intimately founded in and
intertwined even if they do not exclusively rely on the contract terms. “ ‘The
fundamental point’ is that a party is ‘not entitled to make use of [a contract
containing an arbitration clause] as long as it worked to [his or] her
advantage, then attempt to avoid its application in defining the forum in which
[his or] her dispute . . . should be resolved.’ “ (Id. at 496.)
The court in Felisilda, supra, 53
Cal.App.5th 486, 496-497, held that the manufacturer could compel arbitration
because the condition of the vehicle was within the subject matter of the
claims made arbitrable under the sale contract, the sale contract was the
source of the manufacturer’s warranties under which plaintiffs were suing, and
plaintiffs had expressly agreed to arbitrate claims arising out of the
condition of the vehicle, even against third party nonsignatories. The court in
Ford Motor Warranty Cases (Ford) (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324,
disagreed with Felisilda that arbitration could be compelled under an
identical arbitration provision. This Court can now choose to either continue
to follow Felisilda or instead adopt Ford’s reasoning. (Sarti
v. Salt Creek Ltd. (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1187, 1193 [“All trial courts are
bound by all published decisions of the Court of Appeal . . . Unlike at least
some federal intermediate appellate courts, though, there is no horizontal
stare decisis in the California Court of Appeal.”].)
The Ford court disagreed with Felisilda
on the grounds that the fact “[t]hat the Felisilda plaintiffs and the Dealers
agreed in their sale contract to arbitrate disputes between them about the
condition of the vehicle does not equitably estop the plaintiffs from asserting
[the manufacturer] has no right to demand arbitration. Equitable estoppel would
apply if the plaintiffs had sued [the manufacturer] based on the terms of the
sale contract yet denied [the manufacturer] could enforce the arbitration
clause in that contract.” (Ford, supra, 89 Cal.App.5th 1324,
1334.) The Ford court held that the plaintiffs’ claims did not arise in
the sale contracts and instead on the statutory obligations under the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, breach of implied warranty of
merchantability, and fraudulent inducement. “Not one of the plaintiffs sued on
any express contractual language in the sale contract.” (Ford, supra,
89 Cal.App.5th 1324, 1335.) Specifically, the contract contained
provisions that disclaimed any warranty by the Dealers, “while acknowledging no
effect on ‘any warranties covering the vehicle that the vehicle manufacturer
may provide.’ ” (Ibid.) Further, the California Supreme Court
distinguished between warranties from the seller arising out of contract and
warranties from the manufacturer arising “independently of a contract of sale
between the parties.” (Greenman v. Yuba Power Products, Inc. (1963) 59
Cal.2d 57, 60.) Thus, plaintiffs’ claims were not “intimately founded in and
intertwined” with the sale contracts because the sale contracts do not intend
to cover the manufacturer’s warranties. (Ford, supra, 89
Cal.App.5th 1324.) Therefore, equitable estoppel does not apply to compel
plaintiffs to arbitrate their claims because plaintiffs were not making use of
the terms of the sale contracts. (Ibid.)
Thus, Defendant may only compel arbitration if Plaintiff’s
claims arise from and are intimately founded in and intertwined with the sales
contract instead of under Song-Beverly. 
Defendant may not compel arbitration because Plaintiff’s
claims arise from Defendant’s statutory obligation and are not based on any
express contractual language. Equitable estoppel is applicable where one party
relies on a contract, which includes an arbitration provision, in asserting its
claims against a third party but attempts to avoid its application to
determining the forum in pursuing its claims. (Felisilda, supra,
53 Cal.App.5th 486, 496.) Here, like in Ford, Plaintiff’s claims “are
based on [Defendant’s] statutory obligations to reimburse consumers or replace
their vehicles when unable to repair in accordance with its warranty,” not
based “on any express contractual language in the sale contracts.” (Id.
at 620.) Plaintiff’s claims do not arise directly out of the RISC, even if
Defendant’s warranties accompanied the sale of the subject vehicle. “The sale
contracts include no warranty, nor any assurance regarding the quality of the
vehicle sold, nor any promise of repairs or other remedies in the event
problems arise. To the contrary, the sale contracts disclaim any warranty on
the part of the dealers, while acknowledging no effect on ‘any warranties
covering the vehicle that the vehicle manufacturer may provide.’ In short, the
substantive terms of the sale contracts relate to sale and financing and
nothing more.” (Ibid.) Similarly, here the RISC includes no warranty,
any assurance regarding the quality of the vehicle, no promise to make repairs,
and disclaims any manufacturer warranty. Thus, like Ford, Plaintiff’s
claims arise from Defendant’s statutory obligation and not from the sales
contract. Therefore, Defendant may not compel arbitration because Plaintiff’s
claims are not intimately found in or intertwined with the RISC.
Nonsignatory to Sales Contract
Defendant argues that it may enforce the
Arbitration Agreement because it contemplates enforcement by and against
nonsignatory third parties.
“A third party beneficiary is someone who may
enforce a contract because the contract is made expressly for his benefit.” (Jensen
v. U-Haul Co. of California (2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 295, 301; see also Civ.
Code, § 1559 [“[a] contract, made expressly for the benefit of a third person,
may be enforced by him ....”].) A person “only incidentally or remotely
benefited” from a contract is not a third party beneficiary. (Lucas v. Hamm
(1961) 56 Cal.2d 583, 590.) Thus, “the ‘mere fact that a contract results in
benefits to a third party does not render that party a “third party
beneficiary.” ’ ” (Jensen, supra, 18 Cal.App.5th 295, 302.) Nor does
knowledge that the third party may benefit from the contract suffice. (Goonewardene
v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 817, 830.) Rather, the parties to the contract
must have intended the third party to benefit. (Hess v. Ford Motor Co.
(2002) 27 Cal.4th 516, 524.)
To show the contracting parties intended to benefit it, a third party
must show that, under the express terms of the contract at issue and any other
relevant circumstances under which the contract was made, (1) “the third party
would in fact benefit from the contract”; (2) “a motivating purpose of the
contracting parties was to provide a benefit to the third party”; and (3)
permitting the third party to enforce the contract “is consistent with the
objectives of the contract and the reasonable expectations of the contracting
parties.” (Goonewardene, supra,
6 Cal.5th 817, 830.)
Defendant is not a third-party beneficiary as
contemplated by the RISC because there is no motivating purpose between
Plaintiff and the Dealership to provide benefit for Defendant. The Ford
court held that the same language, “[a]ny claim or dispute, . . . which arises
out of or relates to your . . . purchase or condition of this vehicle, this
contract or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such
relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract)” did not intend
to include the manufacturer. “Purchasers . . . can elect to buy insurance,
theft protection, extended warranties and the like from third parties, and they
can finance their transactions with those third parties under the sale
contracts. The “third party” language in the arbitration clause means that if a
purchaser asserts a claim against the dealer (or its employees, agents,
successors or assigns) that relates to one of these third party transactions,
the dealer can elect to arbitrate that claim. It says nothing of binding the
purchaser to arbitrate with the universe of unnamed third parties.” (Ford,
supra, 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, 1335.) Similarly, here, the contract evidences
no intent to include Defendant and statutory manufacturer warranties claims,
rather, there is only evidence that it intends to include any purchases from
third parties which were financed under the contract, such as optional service
contract, vehicle insurance, and state fees. Thus, the RISC does not reveal a
motivating purpose to include Defendant as a third-party beneficiary.
Therefore, Defendant cannot enforce the Arbitration Agreement as a third-party
beneficiary.
Accordingly, the motion to compel arbitration and stay proceedings is DENIED.