 Case Number:  23TRCV01664    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    January 23, 2024
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   23TRCV01664
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Adam
Bouzoubaa Abderrahman; Serine Limo v. General Motors LLC, et al.
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiffs, Adam Bouzoubaa Abderrahman & Serine Limo
Inc.
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant, General Motors, LLC 
 
TRIAL DATE:                           Not Set.
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                                  (1) Motion to Compel Deposition of
Defendant's PMQ
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Plaintiffs’ Motion to
Compel Deposition is MOOTED in part, GRANTED in part, and DENIED
in part as indicated more specifically below. 
¿¿ 
¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On
February 5, 2021, Plaintiffs, Adam Bouzoubaa Abderrahman and Serine Limo Inc.
(collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against Defendant, General
Motors, LLC, and DOES 1 through 10. The Complaint alleges causes of action for:
(1) Violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(d); (2) Violation of Civil Code §
1793.2(b); (3) Violation of Civil Code § 1793.2(a)(3); (4) Breach of Express –
Civil Code § 1791.2(a); § 1794; and (5) Breach of The Implied Warranty of
Merchantability – Civil Code § 1791.1, § 1794.
 
On
August 4, 2023, Plaintiffs note that the e-served the Notice of Deposition of
the PMQ for General Motors and Demand to Produce Documents. The deposition
seeks testimony and documents relating to: (1) Defendant's internal
investigation and analysis of the Defects, which will – per Plaintiff –
establish that Defendant previously knew of the Defects but nevertheless
refused to repurchase the Vehicle, and (2) Defendant’s warranty and vehicle
repurchase policies, procedures, and practices.
 
On
August 23, 2023, GM served its objections to Plaintiff’s notice of deposition
of the PMQ, refusing to produce a witness on the noticed deposition date, but
agreeing to produce a witness at a mutually convenient time and date. Plaintiff
notes that on September 12, 2023, Plaintiffs’ counsel sent an email to
Defendant’s counsel to set a mutually convenient time and place for Defendant’s
deposition. However, Plaintiffs contend they did not receive a response.
Further, on September 29, 2023, Plaintiffs’ counsel sent a follow-up email to
set a mutually convenient time and place for the deposition, but received no
response as of the filing of this motion.
 
As
such, Plaintiff has brought this Motion to Compel Deposition of GM’s PMQ as
well as demand to produce documents. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
            On
October 20, 2023 Plaintiffs filed this motion to compel deposition and produce
documents. On January 9, 2024, Defendant, General Motors, LLC, filed an
opposition. On January 16, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a reply brief. 
¿ ¿¿ 
¿II. MEET AND CONFER 
 
            Code
of Civil Procedure § 2025.450(b)(2) requires that a motion to compel a part
deponent to appear or produce documents “shall
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or,
when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically
stored information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a
declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire
about the nonappearance.”  (C.C.P. §2025.450(b)(2).) The attempt to
resolve informally may be made either by conferring “in person, by telephone,
or by letter with an opposing party or attorney.”  (C.C.P. §2023.010(i),
[failure to make such attempt constitutes “misuse of discovery process”].)
 
            Here,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed to meet and confer in good faith
because they made no attempt to address GM’s objections or narrow the scope of
discovery sought and continue to demand information that goes beyond the
parties’ claims and defenses in this matter. However, this Court disagrees and
notes that Plaintiffs’ counsel’s declaration demonstrated a reasonable and good
faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion
in compliance with Code of Civil Procedure §§
2025.450 and 2016.040. Plaintiffs’ counsel illustrates two unsuccessful attempts
to set a mutually agreeable date with counsel for GM. Counsel for Defendant did
not once indicate, in response to the meet and confer letters, that it would be
providing a mutually agreeable date until Plaintiffs were to address their
objections. As such, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have attempted to meet and
confer in good faith. 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.450, section (a) provides:  
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a
person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230,
without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear
for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (a).)  
 
The motion must “be accompanied
by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent
fails to attend the deposition…by a declaration stating that the petitioner has
contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (2).) A court shall impose monetary sanctions if the motion to
compel is granted unless the one subject to sanctions acted with substantial
justification or other circumstances would make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. (Code. Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)  
 
B.    Discussion 
¿ 
 
Plaintiffs
argue that the categories are directly relevant to Plaintiff’s claim, and that this
motion does not seek the production of documents but rather only the production
of a PMQ. However, in GM’s opposition filing, GM asserts that numerous
categories of Plaintiff’s sought-after information are not relevant and that documents
need not be produced. The Court accepts at face value the Reply’s concession
that this motion does not seek documents so the Court will not be ordering
production of any documents.  But if
there is a later motion to compel documents at the PMQ depositions the Court is
ordering, the Court will take the parties’ positions on today’s motion into
account.  Thus, the Court moves through
each of the identified PMQ categories and analyzes them in turn below. 
 
As
for PMQ Categories 1-4, 7, and 10, GM asserts that it has already agreed to
produce a witness on these categories. As such, the relevancy of these
categories is undisputed. However, GM is ordered to participate with Plaintiffs
in deciding a mutually agreeable date, time and place for this deposition to be
held. If the parties cannot agree on a date, time and place for the PMQ deposition
on these categories, the Court orders the deposition to be taken on February
16, 2024, commencing at 10:00 a.m. with the witness to be permitted to appear remotely.
 
PMQ
Categories Nos. 6, 8, 9, 11, 12, 14, and 15 seek information concerning
GM’s internal analysis of the “defects” alleged in the Complaint. GM argues
that these categories are irrelevant as they seek information and documents concerning
not only Plaintiffs’ repairs and complaints, but other consumers’ complaints
and vehicles. GM argues that these categories are irrelevant because Plaintiffs
have asserted breach of warranty claims, not product liability claims, and thus
documents about other vehicles would not be relevant to Plaintiffs’ asserted
claims. But Plaintiffs assert this motion does not seek any documents, only the
witness.  Here, this Court GRANTS
the requests in part as it finds the requested information – at least as to the
specific symptoms raised by Plaintiffs in the vehicle’s repair history more
than one time and as to the components repaired or replaced as per dealer
repair records and GM’s warranty claims -- are relevant and likely to lead to
the discovery of admissible evidence. 
The categories are discoverable because they might show, for example,
that Defendant was aware of the existence of malfunctions or failures in other customers’
vehicles, knew that existing repair procedures or replacement parts were not
remedying the symptom or malfunction, yet failed to repurchase the vehicle after
plaintiffs gave GM sufficient repair opportunities with respect tot eh subject
vehicle. However, the requested information needs be narrowed to the time frame
of April 27, 2018 (the purchase date of the vehicle) to the date this suit was
filed, and the Court finds that the burden of producing a witness as to other
customers’ repair complaints and GM’s analysis of such repair issues or defects
that were raised and resolved in a single visit by the Plaintiffs here outweighs
the discoverable value of learning about GM’s internal investigation or root
cause analysis of other customers’ complaints, given the importance of the issues
in this litigation and what would be “reasonably” calculated to lead to admissible
evidence in this case.  
 
PMQ
Category No. 13 seeks testimony concerning GM’s third-party dispute
resolution program. GM argues that this information is irrelevant as Plaintiffs
are not participating in such program and GM has no information, based on
Plaintiffs’ pleading, that Plaintiffs have alleged participation in such a
program prior to filing suit. The Court agrees. While the existence of a
certified lemon arbitration program can be relevant in a “presumption” case,
the Court has no indication that Plaintiff is seeking to rely on any of the 3
lemon presumption parameters.  This
motion is DENIED as to PMQ Category No. 13. 
 
PMQ
Categories Nos. 5 and 16-19 seek information regarding GM’s policies and
procedures for evaluating and/or investigating consumer requests for repurchase
and replacement of their vehicles. GM again argues that these categories are
irrelevant as to whether GM was able to conform Plaintiffs’ Escalade to its
warranty within a reasonable number of attempts. Further, GM notes it has
produced responsive, Plaintiffs-specific information relevant to the pending
claims and defenses. The Court disagrees with GM’s assertion that it need not
produce a PMQ regarding GM’s own policies and procedures for determining when a
California vehicle should be reacquired under the Song-Beverly Act.  GM’s failure to comply with its own policies,
as well as GM’s compliance with its own policies, may well be admissible as
bearing on a willfulness civil penalty.   So long as these categories are narrowed to those
applicable to vehicles sold or leased in California on or after the date of
plaintiff’s purchase, the Court finds these categories to be inherently
relevant to Plaintiffs’ accusation that GM wrongfully refused to repurchase the
subject vehicle. Based on this, the Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motion as narrowed
for the relevant time period and geographical location of application.  
¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
¿¿ 