  Case Number:  21TRCV00085    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                    January 23, 2024¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   21TRCV00085
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Aries Global
Logistics, Inc. v. Valley of the Sun Cosmetics, LLC, et al 
¿ ¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff,
Aries Global Logistics, Inc.  
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Cross-Defendants
Clean Beauty Concepts, LLC and Mad Engine, LLC 
 
TRIAL DATE:                       Not Set.
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Leave of Court to
File Third Amended Complaint
¿
Tentative Rulings:                     (1) GRANTED.  Despite the
Opposition’s claim of prejudicial delay, procedural shortcomings and the
likelihood of demurring to the TAC, the case has not been set for trial, a
5-month delay from the July deposition to the December motion is not
unreasonable, and leave to amend is liberally granted in California
¿¿ 
¿¿ 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On
February 5, 2021, Plaintiff, Aries Global Logistics, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed a
Complaint against Defendant, Valley of the Sun Cosmetics, LLC, and DOES 1
through 50. Plaintiff subsequently DOE’d in Defendants, Ajmal Shehzad and Sofia
Shehzad. On September 20, 2022, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint. On
May 9, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) alleging causes
of action for: (1) Breach of Written Contract; (2) Declaratory Relief; (3)
Injunctive Relief; (4) Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing;
(5) Quantum Meruit; (6) Account Stated; and (7) Fraud. 
 
Plaintiff now files a Motion for
Leave to file Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”). 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On December 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed this Motion Leave of Court to File Third Amended Complaint. On January
9, 2024, Cross-Defendants, Clean Beauty Concepts, LLC and Mad Engine, LLC filed
an opposition. On January 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply brief. 
 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.   
Legal
Standard 
 
Leave to amend is permitted under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (a) and section 576. The policy favoring amendment and
resolving all matters in the same dispute is “so strong that it is a rare case
in which denial of leave to amend can be justified. . ..” “Although courts are
bound to apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the
complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial
[citations], this policy should be applied only ‘where no prejudice is shown to
the adverse party . . .. [citation].  A different result is indicated
‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is
shown. [Citation].” (Magpali v. Farmers Group (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471,
487.)  
 
A motion for leave to amend a pleading must also comply
with the procedural requirements of California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324,
which requires a supporting declaration to set forth explicitly what
allegations are to be added and where, and explicitly stating what new evidence
was discovered warranting the amendment and why the amendment was not made
earlier. The motion must also include (1) a copy of the proposed and numbered
amendment, (2) specifications by reference to pages and lines the allegations that
would be deleted and added, and (3) a declaration specifying the effect,
necessity and propriety of the amendments, date of discovery and reasons for
delay. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (a), (b).)  
 
B.   
Discussion
 
Here,
Plaintiff seeks to add the following amendments to its proposed Third Amended
Complaint: 
 
1.    
Adding alter ego allegations against VOTS, CBC, and Mad
Engine; 
2.    
Adding a cause of action for Fraudulent Conveyance
against Defendants VOTS, Ajmal Shehzad, and Sofia Shehzad; and 
3.    
Adding a cause of action for Intentional Interference
with Contractual Relations against Cross-Complainant/Cross-Defendant CBC and
Cross-Defendants Mad Engine, Daish Gajiani, and Faizan Bakali.
 
Plaintiff asserts that it has acted
diligently and expeditiously in seeking this amendment, without inexcusable
delay. This is because Plaintiff contends that the evidence giving rise to this
motion was intentionally withheld from Plaintiff by Defendant VOTS until
November 2023. Specifically, the Court notes that Plaintiff has included the
fact that on October 16, 2023, just three days after Mr. Martinez substituted
in s counsel for VOTS, he asserted apologies for the unnecessary delays by the
former counsel, and asserted that VOTS had not been transparent in its
discovery responses. Plaintiff further argues that Cross-Defendant, Clean
Beauty Concepts, LLC (“CBC”) would likely be opposing this motion and argue
Plaintiff could have sought the information from them, but Plaintiff argues
that they withheld the same documents previously withheld by Defendant VOTS.
These withheld documents allegedly – according to Plaintiff – made it apparent
that Cross-Defendants, CBC and Mad Engine, were not simply third parties, as
Plaintiff has assumed and pleaded in its previous complaints. Instead, once
Plaintiff received the withheld discovery, it asserts that the evidence
indicated that CBC and Mad Engine were actually controlling VOTS’s actions in
this manner. 
 
In their opposition, Cross-Defendants, CBC
and Mad Engine concede that VOTS’s discovery violations are inexcusable, but
argues that Plaintiff omits any mention of the “facts” it claims to have
gleaned from these late-produced documents, which Cross-Defendants argue were
all testified to by Shehzad at a July 11, 2023 deposition. Plaintiff argues in
its reply brief that Shehzad actually failed to produce the previously withheld
documents that Plaintiff asserts give rise to the filing of this motion. 
 
Cross-Defendants, CBC and Mad Engine also
argue that they will suffer extreme prejudice because of the amendments as this
case has been going on for nearly three years, and during the three years,
Cross-Defendants were merely named in this case solely on indemnity,
contribution, and apportionment cross-claims. As such, Cross-Defendants note
they had no need to conduct discovery on, or otherwise concern themselves with
Plaintiff’s underlying claims. This Court disagrees that Cross-Defendants will
suffer “extreme prejudice.” They have not had to spend exorbitant amounts of
time and money on discovery that the opposing parties assert will likely need
to be redone based on the new allegations. Further, as pointed out by
Plaintiff, Cross-Defendants have just elected to file a cross-complaint almost
contemporaneously with the filing of this motion. Arguably such a filing would
open Cross-Defendants up to the same alleged prejudice they claim they will
suffer by the filing of Plaintiff’s TAC. 
 
Here, the Court’s tentative ruling is to
GRANT Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a TAC.  The Court will address the procedural
shortcomings on demurrer and the opposition’s merits arguments on dispositive
motion.
 

¿¿¿¿ 
 