 Case Number:  23TRCV00017    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 January 23, 2024
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV00017
¿
CASE NAME:                        John
Doe v. Mason Swan Lewis, et al.  
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Mason Swan Lewis  
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,
John Doe
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        None
Set. 
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Quash
                                                 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) The Court is inclined to deny
the MTQ but has outlined areas for oral argument for each side to address that
may or may not alter the Court’s thinking
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Factual¿ 
 
On
January 4, 2023, Plaintiff, John Doe, by and through his Guardian Ad Litem,
John T.R. Doe filed a Complaint against Defendant, Mason Swan Lewis, and DOES 1
through 20. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Invasion of
Privacy; (2) Constructive Invasion of Privacy; (3) Intrusion into Private
Affairs; (4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (5) Negligence. 
 
The
Complaint is based on the set of facts outlined in several previous tentative
rulings in this same matter of an incident that allegedly occurred on February
6, 2022 that resulted in a misdemeanor criminal charge being filed against
Defendant and has now spawned multiple civil litigation suits in both the state
and federal court system.  The criminal
case has been likely resolved by a mental health diversion ruling; the Court says
“likely” as final resolution appears to depend on Defendant’s satisfactory
completion of the diversion order’s requirements.  
 
On
May 31, 2023, this Court granted in part and denied in part Defendant’s March
23, 2023 MTQ involving the subpoena for production of business records to the
MBPD requesting the following: "The full investigative report related to
crimes perpetrated by Mason Swan Lewis ... including, but not limited to the
complete incident report (Report No. 22-0000362), any and all supplemental
reports, narratives, statements, transcripts, interview notes, color
photographs, audio or video recordings, electronic data or media files,
etc."  The Court’s prior ruling
occurred before Defendant applied for or was granted judicial diversion in his
then-pending criminal case, and per the May 31, 2023 Minute Order Defendant had
no objection at that time to production of the police report itself but rather
opposed the broader scope of the SDT that included other evidence seized in the
criminal investigation including the contents of hard drives of several
computers, an iPad, his cell phone, and other media.  On June 2, 2023, after oral argument on the prior
motion to quash, the parties submitted a stipulation which the Court approved
and ordered that pruned the ambit of the SDT to the Manhattan Beach Police
Department, limiting the scope to incident and police reports and supplemental reports
or addenda plus any video or photograph of plaintiff or of third parties in or around
bathroom stalls.   On June 12, 2023, the Court approved a stipulated
protective order treat restricted dissemination and use of defined Confidential
Information.  The Court had contemplated a
protective order when it made its ruling on the March 23, 2023 motion to
quash.  On September 8, 2023, Defendant’s
CMC statement indicated the pending criminal case against him arising from the
same incident involving the minor plaintiff was expected to conclude as early
as the next month, “via diversion.”  That
CMC statement was the first time the Court could locate that the possibility of
judicial diversion was mentioned in this civil case.  Judge Gilbertson presided over Defendant’s
criminal case, entering a criminal protective order (CPO) on September 1, 2023 (Exhibit
D of the MTQ moving papers at digital page 52) and granting diversion on
October 12, 2023.  The CPO specifically references
the then pending motion for mental health diversion and it orders the District
Attorney’s office, not any parties to this then-pending civil case, not to
disclose or disseminate the diversion motion or its attached exhibits.  
 
Defendant’s
statutory rights under the mental health diversion statutes have “been in
effect since October 12, 2023” per the motion for protective order Defendant here
filed on November 1, 2023 at p. 10:1-2.  
 
Meanwhile
Defendants’ parents filed a Section 1983 federal civil rights lawsuit in May of
2023 against the City of Manhattan Beach, Case No. 2:2023-cv-03319-WLH-RAO, challenging
the search and seizure of evidence gathered in the course of the criminal investigation
of their son.  The case was assigned to Magistrate
Judge Rozella Oliver for discovery issues. 
Pursuant to the evidence Defendant submitted in support of this MTQ, Magistrate
Judge Oliver issued a lengthy protective order on November 13, 2023, Exhibit E
to the Declaration of Mary Lewis (digital pages 54-68 of the MTQ papers).  The federal protective order was stipulated
to by Defendant’s parents and counsel for the City who is also counsel for the
individual police officers in the Section 1983 civil rights suit.  None of the parties to this civil case brought
by the minor plaintiff are parties to the federal protective order, although
the federal protective order recognizes Defendant’s right of privacy under the
protective umbrella of the mental health diversion statutes in the California Penal
Code and Judge Gilbertson’s protective order in the criminal case is expressly
discussed in the federal protective order. 

 
On
November 1, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for protective order to limit the scope
of discovery “to exclude any records resulting from the investigation or prosecution
and ultimate diversion of the criminal charge pending against Defendant.”  (Motion for Prot. Order, at 1:28-2:2.)   This Court
on January 2, 2024 denied that motion, which Defendant in his Reply brief on the
instant Motion to Quash recognized as being predicated on three factors: (1) the
MBPD police report / incident report involving the minor plaintiff had been
previously stipulated to being produced, (2) the police report had already been
produced to Plaintiff’s counsel pursuant to the parties’ stipulation for a
narrowed scope as per the Court’s May 31, 2023 Minute
Order in this case, and (3) the MBPD produced its incident report / police
report prior to the granting of diversion. 
(Defendant’s 1/16/24 MTQ Reply at 4:7-9.)  Until the motion for protective order and this
MTQ, it was not readily apparent to the Court that the MBPD did not produce any
videos of plaintiff or of third parties in or around bathroom stalls.  According to Plaintiffs’ counsel in his
opposition, the police report for the February 6, 2022 incident references over
500 videos contained on Defendant’s external hard drive that apparently were gathered
pursuant to a criminal subpoena issued in the MBPD’s investigation of the
misdemeanor charge.  Plaintiffs thus issued
the two subject SDTs to the MBPD, seeking among other things those videos.  Plaintiffs’ November 10, 2023 SDTs also
sought security camera footage at the Manhattan Beach County Club purportedly showing
Defendant leaving the Club at or about the time of the alleged incident
involving the minor plaintiff.  
 
Currently
before the Court is a new motion to quash filed on December 4, 2023.  The instant MTQ asserts that on November 10,
2023, Plaintiff issued the two new deposition subpoenas for production of
business records to the MBPD. The First subpoena seeks the following records: "evidence
extracted from 'Item 6' of DR #22-0000362 (a black hard drive with a silver
'G', which was attached to the Apple Computer CPU), including the 547 videos
that were extracted from the hard drive." The second subpoena seeks “security
camera footage from the Manhattan Country Club on February 6, 2022, collected
in relation to DR #22-0000362, including videos identified in the police report
as: 
 
•
lst clip: 2: 13 minutes long of the lobby area of the county club. The video is
date/time stamped 02/06/2022/03:38:04 
•
2nd clip: 2:13 minutes long of the hallway area of the country club. The video
is date/time stamped 02/06/2022/03:38:04 
•
3rd clip: 2:13 minutes long of the hallway area of the county club. The video
is date/time stamped 02/06/2022/03:38:01." 
 
Defendant
moves to quash both subpoenas based on similar arguments made in his previous
Motion for Protective Order – namely, Defendant being granted Mental Health
Diversion in his criminal case.  But
rather than relying mostly on the diversion policies underlying Penal Code
section 951.92, 1001.9 and 1001.36, the instant MTQ rests on the entry of
protective orders in both the misdemeanor criminal case and the Defendants’
parents’ federal civil rights suit involving the records gathered in the course
of the criminal investigation.  This MTQ
cites and quotes from the same diversion statute, Penal Code section 851.92
(b)(3) and (b)(5) as quoted at page 7 of the Motion for Protective Order.  
 
B. Procedural 
 
On December 4,
2023, Defendant filed this Motion to Quash two Deposition Subpoenas for
Production of Business Records issued to Manhattan Beach Police Department. On January
9, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On January 16, 2023, Defendant filed a
reply brief.  
 
¿II. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal Standard
 
Code of Civil
Procedure § 1987.1 grants the trial court authority to quash a subpoena when
necessary. Code of Civil Procedure § 1987.1 provides: “If a subpoena requires
the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, or other
things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of
a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in
subdivision (b), or upon the court’s own motion after giving counsel notice and
an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely,
modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as
the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court
may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from
unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the
right of privacy of the person.”
 
B.    
Discussion
 
Preliminarily,
in the interest of time, the Court does not wish to discuss again the
implications of Defendant’s Mental Health Diversion in the criminal case as it
pertains to this civil action – is it did so in great length for Defendant’s
previously filed and denied Motion for Protective Order. However, this time,
Defendant also includes a federal district court protective order on the MBPD
records signed by United States Magistrate Judge Rozella A. Oliver on November
13, 2023. This protective order was for all files, records, and other materials
pertaining to DR #22-0000362, i.e., the police report that Defendant previously
stipulated to being produced in this case months before the mental health
diversion motion was field or granted.  Based
on this, Defendant argues that if this Court were to force the MBPD to comply
with the subpoenas, the MBPD would be in direct violation of a federal court
order. 
 
The
Court disagrees with Defendant’s argument here. Defendant’s chronology of
events in slightly off.  The federal protective
order (signed November 13, 2023) was NOT in effect before the service of
Plaintiff’s subpoenas (served November 10, 2023) – an incorrect statement of
fact in the MTQ papers.  Further, the
MBPD would not be in direct violation of the federal court order, but rather it
lays out the procedures of how to deal with the protected material that is
subpoenaed or ordered produced in other litigations. Per the federal stipulated
order, the designating party (likely Defendant or his parents) is to seek a
protective order. But there is no evidence before the Court that any party
designated the 547 videos as confidential material, so it is not at all clear
that the federal protective order applies to the November 10, 2023 subpoenas.   The
party moving to quash a SDT has the burden of proving the grounds for its
motion.   
 
Further,
Defendant’s moving arguments are inconsistent. 
As noted in Plaintiffs’ Opposition papers, one cannot persuasively
contend that evidence does not exist while at the same time contending that this
non-existent material has been designated as covered by the federal protective
order.  Of course, if the evidence sought
does not exist, such an argument is not grounds to deny the Motion to Quash. Assuming
that defense counsel was merely mistaken in contending that no videos of
Plaintiff or third parties in or around restroom stalls exists – a mistake
suggested by the Opposition’s reference to the content of the police report –
there still is no proof that even Defendant’s parents designated such videos as
confidential information governed by the federal protective order.  
 
Further,
Defendant also brings up a potential Fourth Amendment violation by the MBPD, noting
that the first subpoena implied evidence was extracted from a black hard drive
with the letter “G” in silver, however it is unclear if this evidence exists,
and would potentially require the MBPD to examine the physical hard drive to
re-extract materials. Defendant argues this would violate his Fourth Amendment
rights as the MBPD’s search warrant has expired and they would need to obtain
another. As to this hard drive, Defendant also argues this hard drive was taken
as an overbreadth of the MBPD’s search, and is actually not owned by Defendant,
but might be owned by Defendant’s mother. 
 
            Further still, Defendant has not
addressed the fact that his counsel stipulated, agreed, and had no objection to
the production of videos of Plaintiff or of third parties in or around restroom
stalls.  That stipulation was ordered and
approved by this Court long before either the misdemeanor court CPO or federal
protective order were sought or approved by other bench officers in other cases.  
 
            For oral argument, the Court would
like to hear from Plaintiffs’ counsel as to why the MBPD’s failure to comply
with the SDT as to videos was not brought to this Court’s attention before
Judge Gilbertson issued her CPO or her diversion order.  The Court is concerned that the chronology of
events has now changed from what was before the Court in its earlier MTQ ruling
contained in the May 31, 2023 Minute Order. 
The Court would also like to hear from defense counsel as to how the
federal district court protective order covers the videos at issue if no party
designated the videos as confidential information and if Defendant followed the
procedure of the federal order when he brought the motion for protective order this
Court heard and denied already.  Further,
the Court needs to hear from defense counsel as to the evidence that the subject
videos are part of Exhibits A-G of the Defendant’s Motion for Mental Health
Diversion, which are the documents specifically covered by Judge Gilbertson’s September
1, 2023 CPO, and what evidence is before this Court that the subject videos were
used by Judge Gilbertson in consideration for diversion?   Defendant’s declaration at paragraph 4
(digital page 12 of the November 1, 2023 motion for protective order) states that
the District Attorney read parts of the police report aloud during the
proceedings, but were those parts the ones that reference the videos?  Has a transcript of the October 12, 2023
proceedings been prepared that this Court could review in camera?   If the
videos are not specifically referenced in the CPO nor in the diversion order,
what would be the legal basis for the Court to quash the November 10, 2023
SDTs? 
            It may well be that Judge Gilbertson
did consider the voluminous videos gathered by the MBPD from Defendant’s
external hard drive as evidence of Defendant’s mental health condition.  It may well be that the legislative policy
behind the diversion statutes might trump a civil litigant’s discovery of evidence
that could be used to support a claim for compensatory or punitive damages.  But with now four or more separate court
proceedings arising out of the same February 6, 2022 incident and its
aftermath, this one Court needs a properly developed record before ruling on the
pending motion. 
 
Note: The
Court will act quickly to stop ad hominem attacks on opposing counsel during
oral argument; not only are such attacks as seen in the parties’ papers unhelpful
but also they violate the civility rules the Court will be enforcing.  
 