 Case Number:  21STCV14423    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  29 Tentative   The motion to continue trial is  GRANTED.   Background    On April 16, 2021, Plaintiff  Louis Bellamy filed a complaint against Defendant City of Long Beach.  The complaint alleges that Defendants City of  Long Beach and Does 1 to 50 negligently, carelessly and recklessly maintained  and operated the public walkway/path as to cause Plaintiff to suffer from  physical injuries as alleged herein.  Under  the premises liability cause of action, Plaintiff also alleges a willful  failure to warn.    On December 15, 2021,  Plaintiff filed an amendment to the complaint to name James W. Stewart, II (“Defendant”)  as Doe 1.    On June 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended  Complaint against City of Long Beach, Defendant, and Does 1 to 50, alleging causes of action for (1) negligence; (2) and premises  liability. The FAC alleges that on or about November 10, 2020, Plaintiff was  walking on a public walkway/path when she tripped and fell because of a  damaged, unmaintained, uneven, and unsafe walking surface, causing her to fall  and sustain severe bodily injuries.     Legal Standard   California Rules of Court, rule  3.1332, subdivision (c) states that  although disfavored, the trial date may  be continued for “good cause,” which includes (without limitation): (1)  unavailability of trial counsel or witnesses due to “death, illness, or other  excusable circumstances”; (2) the addition of a new party depriving the new  party (or other parties) from conducting discovery and preparing for trial; (3)  “excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material  evidence despite diligent efforts”; or (4) “[a] significant, unanticipated  change in the status of the case” preventing it from being ready for trial. (Id.,  Rule 3.1332(c).)      Other relevant considerations may include: “(1) The  proximity of the trial date; [¶] (2) Whether there was any previous  continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party; [¶] (3) The  length of the continuance requested; [¶] (4) The availability of alternative  means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a  continuance; [¶] (5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a  result of the continuance; [¶] (6) If the case is entitled to a preferential trial  setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need for a continuance  outweighs the need to avoid delay; [¶] (7) The court's calendar and the impact  of granting a continuance on other pending trials; [¶] (8) Whether trial  counsel is engaged in another trial; [¶] (9) Whether all parties have  stipulated to a continuance; [¶] (10) Whether the interests of justice are best  served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions  on the continuance; and [¶] (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the  fair determination of the motion or application.” (Id., Rule  3.1332(d).)    CCP section 2024.050  allows a court to grant leave to complete discovery proceedings.  In doing  so, a court shall consider matters relevant to the leave requested, including,  but not limited to: (1) the necessity of the discovery, (2) the diligence in  seeking the discovery or discovery motion, (3) the likelihood of interference  with the trial calendar or prejudice to a party, and (4) the length of time  that has elapsed between previous trial dates.  (Code Civ. Proc. §  2024.050.)    Discussion Defendant moves to continue  trial from June 2024 so that Defendant can complete and evaluate discovery,  complete depositions, complete expert discovery, and explore the possibility of  filing motions as to the liability issues. Defendant argues that good  Cause exists for the granting this Motion to continue trial, as the trial date  in this case is set for December 4, 2023 and the Final Status Conference is set  for November 13, 2023 but the parties are still in the process of completing  discovery (written discovery and subpoenas for records), depositions (of  Plaintiff Bellamy, Defendant Stewart and Defendant City of Long Beach) and  expert discovery. Defendant asserts that due to no fault of Defendant, discovery,  depositions and expert discovery will not be completed prior to the discovery  cut-off date and Defendant is being prevented from exploring the possibility of  filing motions as to the liability issues. The record shows that the Complaint  was filed by Plaintiff on April 16, 2021 and City of Long Beach filed its answer  on June 1, 2021. An amendment to the Complaint naming Defendant was filed on  December 15, 2021. Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint on June 2, 2023.  Defendant first appeared in  this action on May 3, 2023.  The Court has reviewed the  evidence in the record and it does appear that Defendant has diligently pursued  discovery since appearing, including serving written discovery to Plaintiff,  noticing Plaintiff’s deposition, and serving third-party subpoenas.  Despite this diligence, Defendant argues that  discovery is not yet complete and he would be prejudiced if he were not  provided an adequate opportunity to complete discovery prior to trial.  The Court also notes that several discovery  motions are on calendar for the next thirty days.  No party has filed an  opposition to this motion.  Accordingly,  it appears that no party contends that it would be unfairly prejudiced by the  requested continuance of the trial date. After considering all of the  evidence and argument, the Court finds that there is good cause for the  requested trial continuance.   Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED. Conclusion   The Court GRANTS  the motion to continue trial.   Trial is continued  to mid June 2024.  Final Status  Conference and all deadlines are reset based on the new trial  date.  Final Status Conference is continued to 05/29/2024 at 10:00 AM in Department 29 at Spring 
Street Courthouse. Non-Jury Trial is continued to 06/12/2024 at 08:30 AM in Department 29 at 
Spring Street Courthouse.  Moving party to give notice.  