 Case Number:  22STCV00277    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  29 Tentative
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to
compel.
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request
for sanctions.
 
Background
 
On January 4,
2022, Plaintiff Lester Jimenez (“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint in this action
against Defendants 25 Art, L.P., Frederick Leeds, David Oved (“Defendants”),
and Does 1 through 50, asserting causes of action for negligence and premises
liability. Plaintiff alleges that he was seriously injured when he fell down a flight
of stairs on a fire escape attached to a building on South Hobart Boulevard in
Los Angeles, California, that is owned, operated, managed, or controlled by defendants.
The Complaint alleges that the injury occurred on April 22, 2021, but there is
some indication in the record that the injury allegedly occurred earlier, in
April 2020.
 
On March 25,
2022, Defendants filed an Answer to the Complaint. On the same day, Defendants
filed a Cross-Complaint for indemnity, apportionment, and declaratory relief against
Roes 1 through 25.
 
On April 5,
2023, Plaintiff amended the Complaint to named Fred Leeds Properties, an
unknown entity, as Doe 1, and Fred Leeds Investment Properties, LP as Doe 2.
 
On May 3, 2023,
Fred Leeds Investment Properties, LP, filed an Answer to the Complaint, on its
own behalf and as an entity erroneously named as Fred Leeds Properties.
 
On July 18,
2023, Plaintiff named Olga Avalos as Doe 3. Defendant Avalos filed an Answer on
August 30.
 
On August 14,
2023, Defendants amended their Cross-Complaint to name Sharol Batres as Roe 1. On
September 1, Defendants filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint.
 
As it relates to
the pending motion, Plaintiff took the deposition of Defendant Frederick Leeds
(“Defendant”) on April 10, 2023. (Davidson Decl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff contended
that Defendant did not provide responsive answers to some of the questions
asked and that Defendant’s counsel made unmeritorious objections and gave
improper instructions not to answer; as a result, Plaintiff unilaterally suspended
the deposition to seek relief from the Court. (Id., ¶¶ 6-7.) In
lieu of motion practice, the parties stipulated that Defendant would sit for a second
deposition. (Ibid.) 
 
On July 24,
2023, Defendant attended the second session of his deposition. (Id., ¶ 8.)
Plaintiff unilaterally suspended the deposition again after (Plaintiff
contends) Defendant again did not provide responsive answers to some of the
questions asked and Defendant’s counsel again made unmeritorious objections and
gave improper instructions not to answer. (Id., ¶¶ 6, 8.)
 
Plaintiff filed
the instant motion on October 6, 2023, seeking an order compelling Defendant Frederick
Leeds (“Defendant”) to appear for a subsequent deposition, provide responsive
answers to questions previously posed, and answer new questions under the
supervision of a discovery referee. Plaintiff also seeks sanctions.
 
Defendant filed
an opposition and his own request for sanctions on October 17. Plaintiff filed a
reply (untimely) on October 25.
 
Legal
Standard
 
“If a deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any
document, electronically stored information,¿or tangible thing under the
deponent's control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition
subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order
compelling that answer or production.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (a).)
The motion must be made “no later than 60 days after the completion of the
record of the deposition” and must be “accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration.”  (Id., subd. (b).) 
 
“If the court determines that the answer or production sought is
subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be given or the production
be made on the resumption of the deposition.” (Id., subd. (i).)   
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production, unless
it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”  (Id., subd. (j).) 
 
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Act, 2023.030(a) provides that “[t]he
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct. . . .¿If a monetary sanction is authorized by any
provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the¿sanction unjust.”¿¿Failing
to respond¿or to submit to an authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the
discovery process, as is making, without substantial justification, an
unmeritorious objection to discovery.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds.
(d), (e).) 
 
“Once any party has taken the deposition of any natural person, including
that of a party to the action, neither the party who gave, nor any other party
who has been served with a deposition notice pursuant to Section 2025.240 may
take a subsequent deposition of that deponent.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.610,
subd. (a).) Nonetheless, “for good cause shown, the court may grant leave to
take a subsequent deposition.” (Id., subd. (b).) A party makes a showing
of good cause for discovery where such party shows the relevance of the
information sought but also that the discovery is material to the issues in the
case. (Associated Brewers Distributing Co. v. Superior Court of Los Angeles
County (1967) 65 Cal.2d 583, 587.)
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff seeks an order (1) compelling Defendant to appear for a
subsequent deposition and provide responsive answers to questions asked; (2)
compelling Defendant to appear for a subsequent deposition and provide
responsive answers to new questions; and (3) appointing a discovery
referee to oversee the additional deposition.
 
Defendant raises a number of threshold procedural issues, which the Court
will now address.
 
First, Defendant argues that the motion is untimely because it was not filed
within 60 days of the completion of the deposition record. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (b).)
 
As to the second
session of Defendant’s deposition, the motion is plainly timely. The deposition
was taken on July 24, and the court reporter completed the transcript and
transmitted it to counsel on August 15, 2023. The deponent then had 30 days to “change
the form or the substance of the answer to a question,” to “approve the transcript
of the deposition by signing it,” or to “refuse to approve the transcript by
not signing it.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.520, subd. (b).) Accordingly, the
record of the deposition was not complete until September 14, 2023, and this motion
was filed on October 6, less than 30 days later. (The Court is aware that there
is some uncertainty as to whether the 60-day period in the statute commences when
the court reporter transmits the transcript or only after the 30-day period for
changes expires. [2 Weil & Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil
Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023), ¶ 8:801.] The Court concludes
that the later date is the correct one. Prior to the expiration of the 30-day
period, the deponent may still make changes, and so the deposition record is
not, in the Court’s view, meaningfully “complete.”) 
 
Defendant argues,
however, that any attempt by Plaintiff to compel further answers to the first
session of the deposition is time barred. As to the first session, the work of the
court reporter was complete and the transcript was transmitted to counsel on April
24, 2023. Any changes were due by May 24, 2023, and 60 days later was July 23,
2023 (which was a Sunday, and so any deadline would be extended to the next
court day, or July 24). Plaintiff did not file until October. Accordingly, Defendant
argues, the motion is untimely in that regard.
 
But there is more
to the analysis. After the first session of the deposition, the parties met and
conferred, and Defendant agreed to appear for a second session. At that time, there
was no live or ripe dispute between the parties, and it would have been absolutely
nonsensical for Plaintiff to file a motion: the parties had a dispute,
discussed it, and agreed to resolve it through a second session of the deposition.
For purposes of 60-day time limit of section 2025.480, subdivision (b), the
deposition was not complete, and so the record of the deposition was also not
complete. The deposition record was not complete until after the completion of
the record of the second session – which, as noted above, was not until
September 14.
 
Accordingly, the
Court rejects the argument of Defendant that any aspect of Plaintiff’s motion
is untimely.
 
Second, Defendant
argues that Plaintiff did not comply with the meet and confer declaration
requirement contained in section 2025.480, subdivision (b). It is true, as
Defendant argues, that Plaintiff’s efforts after the conclusion of the second session
of the deposition were minimal, but, again, that is only part of the analysis.
The parties did meet and confer after the first session of the deposition, and Defendant
agreed to return for a second session of the deposition. That second session
did not go particularly well, and there was a robust back-and-forth between
counsel on the record regarding the merit (or lack thereof) in Defendant’s numerous
objections and refusals to answer. Perhaps an additional effort at, or after,
the deposition would have been advisable, but considering the record as a
whole, the Court does not find that Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts
regarding Defendant’s failure to answer the questions at both the first and
second session of the deposition were inadequate under section 2025.480,
subdivision (b). By the ending of the second session of the deposition, counsel
had engaged in a sufficient discussion of the issues to satisfy the statute,
and it was clear that court intervention was necessary.
 
Third, Defendant
argues that Plaintiff acted improperly in suspending the deposition to seek the
assistance of the Court in obtaining Defendant’s answers to the questions
asked. That is incorrect. Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.460, subdivision
(e), expressly provides that “[i]f a deponent fails to answer any question or
to produce any document …, the party seeking that answer or production may
adjourn the deposition.” Although the right to suspend (or adjourn) a
deposition should certainly be used sparingly, Plaintiff did not act improperly
in suspending the deposition and then filing a timely motion to compel.  
 
Turning now to
the merits, the Court will address each disputed question and response, using
the numbering set forth in the parties’ separate statements.
 
Questions Nos. 1-4.
 
Near the outset
of the deposition, Plaintiff asked Defendant about how many commercial
properties he owns and the percentage breakdown between apartment buildings and
other commercial properties. Defendants’ counsel instructed the witness not to
answer on the grounds of financial privacy.
 
Where, as here, a party claims that a discovery
request improperly invades a protected right to privacy, the California Supreme
Court has established “a framework for evaluating potential invasions of
privacy” in Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552, Hill
v. Nat'l Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal. 4th 1, and other cases. First,
a party asserting a privacy right must establish “a legally protected privacy
interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.” (Williams,
supra, 3 Cal.5th at p. 552, citing Hill, supra, 7 Cal.4th at pp. 35-37.)
In response, the party seeking the information may raise “whatever legitimate
and important countervailing interests disclosure serves,” and “the party
seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same
interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy.” (Ibid.,
citing Hill, supra, 7 Cal.4th at pp. 37-40.)  The court must then “balance these competing
considerations.” (Ibid.) The party seeking the information need not,
however, establish a “compelling interest” unless the disclosure would be “an
obvious invasion of an interest fundamental to personal autonomy.” (Id.
at p. 556.)
California’s Constitutional right to privacy
protects against the unwarranted, compelled disclosure of various private or
sensitive information regarding one’s personal life.¿ (Britt v. Superior
Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 855-856.)¿¿This generally includes financial
matters.
Under the Williams and Hill framework,
a party who has refused to answer a deposition question must first to establish
a legally protected privacy interest, a reasonable expectation of privacy, and
a serious intrusion into private matters. Here, although financial information
is generally private, Defendant has not done so. Property ownership is
generally a matter of public record, and the questions asked – regarding the number
of commercial properties Defendant owns and the breakdown between apartment
buildings and other commercial properties – do not involve a particularly
sensitive matter or threaten a serious intrusion into Defendant’s privacy. The
question was asked to establish a relevant foundational fact relating to Defendant’s
knowledge, experience, and general practices with regard to apartment building
ownership. Plaintiff did not ask questions that might raise more serious
privacy concerns, such as income from apartment building ownership or the value
of the buildings Defendant owns. 
Accordingly, Defendant’s objections are OVERRULED. Plaintiff’s
motion to compel as to these questions is GRANTED.  
Questions Nos. 5-7.
Plaintiff asked Defendant a basic foundational
question about whether he understood that this matter is a personal injury
case. Defendant stated that he was “not familiar with personal injury” but he
was “familiar with fraud.” Defendant then made a reference to a California
state bar complaint form. When asked what he meant by fraud and the state bar
complaint form, Defendant provided evasive answers and then asked to take a
break. Upon return from the break, Plaintiff asked Defendant to elaborate, and
Defendant said that he would “in good time,” and again provided evasive
responses to the follow up questions.
Defendant must provide straightforward answers to
questions that are asked in deposition. Out of nowhere, Defendant brought up
fraud and state bar complaints; Plaintiff asked appropriate follow up, and
Defendant refused to answer. Defendant may well be frustrated by being the
subject of a lawsuit (as his counsel argues), but regardless of his level of
frustration, and whether it is justified, Defendant must still sit for his
deposition and answer questions. 
Accordingly, Defendant’s objections are OVERRULED. Plaintiff’s
motion to compel as to these questions is GRANTED.  
Question No. 8.
Defendant refused to answer questions about his
knowledge of applicable insurance coverage. Regardless of what information has
been provided in discovery, that is a fair question, and Defendant had no right
to refuse to answer.
Accordingly, Defendant’s objections are OVERRULED. Plaintiff’s
motion to compel as to this question is GRANTED.  
Questions Nos. 9-10.
Defendant refused to answer questions that he
regarded as “stupid” regarding the allegations of the Plaintiff. That is no
basis to refuse to answer fair questions.
Accordingly, Defendant’s objections are OVERRULED. Plaintiff’s
motion to compel as to these questions is GRANTED.  
Questions Nos. 11-12
When Plaintiff asked Defendant in the second session
of the deposition whether he had read the complaint, Defendant objected on work
product grounds. Defendant has not established any foundational facts for the
application of the work production doctrine, but the Defendant did answer this
same question in the first session of the deposition.
Accordingly, Defendant’s opposition to the motion on
the ground that Defendant has already answered these questions is well-founded.
Plaintiff’s motion to compel as to these questions is DENIED.
Questions Nos. 13-14
When Plaintiff asked Defendant whether he had
reviewed any documents in preparation for the second session of the deposition
whether he had read the complaint, Defendant objected on work product grounds.
Defendant has not established any foundational facts for the application of the
work production doctrine.    
Accordingly, Defendant’s objections are OVERRULED. Plaintiff’s
motion to compel as to these questions is GRANTED.  
Questions Nos. 15-16
When Plaintiff asked Defendant whether he had taken
photographs or reviewed surveillance videos, Defendant objected on work product
grounds. Defendant has not established any foundational facts for the application
of the work production doctrine.    
Accordingly, Defendant’s objections are OVERRULED. Plaintiff’s
motion to compel as to these questions is GRANTED.  
Questions Nos. 17-21
Plaintiff asked Defendant several questions about
the tenants’ use of the fire escape of the building at issue and the safety of
that use. Defendant failed to answer, providing evasive and non-responsive
answers.
Accordingly, Defendant’s objections are OVERRULED. Plaintiff’s
motion to compel as to these questions is GRANTED.  
Questions Nos. 22-24 
Plaintiff asked Defendant about discussions with the
on-site property manager and also whether Defendant had read her deposition
testimony. Defendant objected on work product grounds. Defendant has not established
any foundational facts for the application of the work production doctrine.    
Accordingly, Defendant’s objections are OVERRULED. Plaintiff’s
motion to compel as to these questions is GRANTED.
Questions Nos. 25-26
Plaintiff asked Defendant about the on-site property
manager’s duties and her discharge (or non-discharge) of her duties. Defendant
must answer these questions as to his own personal knowledge and experience. To
the extent that Defendant objected on work product grounds. Defendant has not
established any foundational facts for the application of the work production
doctrine.    
Accordingly, Defendant’s objections are OVERRULED. Plaintiff’s
motion to compel as to these questions is GRANTED.
Questions Nos. 27-28
Defendant testified that after reading police
reports and hospital reports, “you can fiture out what happened to [Plaintiff].”
When Plaintiff followed up and asked “what happened,” Defendant objected on work
product grounds. Defendant has not established any foundational facts for the
application of the work production doctrine. 
  
Accordingly, Defendant’s objections are OVERRULED. Plaintiff’s
motion to compel as to these questions is GRANTED.
Based on the above, Defendant must appear for
another session of his deposition and answer the questions set forth above as
to which the motion to compel has been granted.
In addition, Plaintiff may ask reasonable follow up
on each of these areas. As to these follow up questions, Defendant’s counsel is
cautioned not to assert improper objections, not to make speaking objections,
and not to instruct the witness not to answer without a proper legal foundation
for doing so.
Plaintiff has not shown a sufficient basis for the
appointment of a discovey referee at this time.
Finally, turning to sanctions, the Court concludes
that the imposition of sanctions against Defendant and his counsel, as
specifically requested in the notice of motion, is appropriate, that the
conduct of Defendant and his counsel was not substantially justified, and that
the imposition of sanctions would not be unjust. The Court sets sanctions in
the requested amount of $2,400, calculated based on eight hours of attorney
time preparing the motion, the reply, and attending the hearing, multiplied by
counsel’s reasonable billing rate of $300 per hour. (See Davidson Decl., ¶ 11.)
 
Conclusion
 
The Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel.
 
The Court
ORDERS Defendant to attend a further session of his deposition and answer
additional questions. As to the questions numbered 1-10 and 13-28 in the
Separate Statements, Defendant must provide complete and straightforward
answers. Plaintiff may ask, in addition, reasonable follow up in each of these
subject areas, and Defendant must answer those questions, subject to any well-founded
objections and/or instructions. The next session of the deposition must occur
within 21 days of notice of the order, with the date, time, and place to be
arranged by counsel.
 
The Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for sanctions.
 
The Court
ORDERS Defendant, counsel Christopher Ruiz, and the firm Wilson, Elser,
Moskowitz, Edelman & Dicker LLP, jointly and severally, to pay monetary sanctions
under the Civil Discovery Act to Plaintiff in the amount of $2,400 within 21
days of notice of the order.
 
All other
requests for relief are DENIED.
 
Moving party
is ordered to give notice. 
 
 