 Case Number:  22STCV11471    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
VALERY VACA, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case
  No.:
 


 
22STCV11471




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, a governmental entity; and DOES 1
  through 100, inclusive,
 


 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: April 2, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to Bifurcate
Moving Party: Defendant Superior Court of
California, County of Los Angeles, erroneously sued as Los Angeles Superior
Court (“Defendant”) 
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Valery Vaca (“Plaintiff
Vaca”) and Steffany Noriega (“Plaintiff Noriega”) 
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT’S
MOTION FOR SEPARATE TRIALS FOR EACH PLAINTIFF IS GRANTED.
 
            DEFENDANT TO NOTICE. 
 
If the
parties wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party)
before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving, opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            
This case arises from the employment
of Plaintiffs Valery Vaca and Stefanny Noriega with Defendant Superior Court of California,
County of Los Angeles. Plaintiffs Vaca and Noriega are employees of the Los
Angeles Superior Court, serving in the same position (Court Service Assistant
II). Noriega is the mother of Vaca. Plaintiffs collectively allege causes of
action for: (1) disability discrimination in violation of FEHA; (2) failure to
accommodate in violation of FEHA; (3) failure to engage in the interactive
process in violation of FEHA; (4) gender discrimination in violation of FEHA;
(5) age discrimination in violation of FEHA; (6) race discrimination in
violation of FEHA; (7) harassment on the basis of disability, gender, and rack
in violation of FEHA; (8) harassment on the basis of age in violation of FEHA;
(9) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and retaliation in violation
of FEHA.
 
ANALYSIS
 

 “When
parties have been joined under Section 378 or 379, the court may make such
orders as may appear just to prevent any party from being embarrassed, delayed,
or put to undue expense, and may order separate trials or make such other order
as the interests of justice may require.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 379.5.) 
 
Pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure,
Section 1048(b) “[t]he court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid
prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy,
may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action
asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of
causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by
the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United States.”
 
Defendant seeks
separate trials for each Plaintiff. According to Defendant, the claims of each
Plaintiff are based on events taking place at different times under different
circumstances. Vaca
claims she was discriminated against based on her race and gender. Noriega’s
claims are based primarily on her age, alleging she was passed over for
promotion in favor of younger employees. Defendant contends a joint trial will
result in confusion and creates the risk that the jury will impose liability with
respect to one Plaintiff based on the claims of the other.
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that a
substantial amount of the evidence is relevant to both Plaintiffs, and separate
trials would waste judicial resources. Plaintiff points out that both cases
involve the same supervisor. Plaintiff points to Pilliod v. Monsanto Co. (2021)
67 Cal.App.5th 591 to argue that jury instructions can address any possible
confusion.
 
In reply, Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’
reliance on Pilloid is misplaced because the plaintiffs in Pilloid
used the same Roundup herbicide on their property and suffered the same injury.
(Pilliod v. Monsanto Co. (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 591, 600.)  Unlike Pilliod,
evidence of the alleged harassment and discrimination here will be different
for each Plaintiff. They never worked together or in the same department, nor
were they subjected to the same alleged adverse employment action. 
 
Defendant’s
reliance on David v. Medtronic, Inc.
(2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 734, 740, is instructive. In David, the Court of Appeal concluded that the trial court did
not err in severing the trials because the plaintiffs shared only one factor in
common: having an implant of the same medical device. (David v.
Medtronic, Inc. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 734, 741.) The principal similarity between the Plaintiffs’ cases
here is that they had the same supervisor, Jorge Mancillas. But they reported
to him at different times, in different departments.  
 
Defendant’s
reliance on Rubio v. Monsanto Co., (C.D.Cal.
2016) 181 F. Supp. 3d 746, also is instructive.  In Rubio, "both Plaintiffs
will need to establish that the Roundup chemical caused their cancer.
While this may involve some overlap of experts, proving causation will be a far
different task for each. Plaintiffs applied the pesticide under vastly
different circumstances, including frequency and duration of exposure.
Plaintiffs lived in different parts of the country when using the chemical and
therefore were exposed to different, other potential contributors to their
health problems. The exposures were also separated by nearly twenty years,
encompassing changes to Roundup's formulation, as well as other environmental
factors. These differences outweigh any efficiencies in trying the claims
together.” (Rubio v. Monsanto Co. (C.D.Cal. 2016) 181 F. Supp. 3d
746, 758.) As noted, Vaca alleges discrimination
based on her race and gender; Noriega’s claims are based primarily upon her age.

 
“Neither Plaintiff[s’] rights will be prejudiced
by severance, as each is free to proceed with his or her individual claims.” See Visendi v.
Bank of Am., N.A., 733 F.3d 863, 870-71 (9th Cir. 2015) (severance would
not prejudice plaintiffs because they remained free to pursue their claims
individually). 
 
Defendant’s
motion for separate trials is GRANTED.


 