  Case Number:  22TRCV00505    Hearing Date:   May 3, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                                  Friday,
May 3, 2024 
Department M                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 6
 


PROCEEDINGS
 
Dina Chang v. Rodney Yamane, et al.      
22TRCV00505
1.      Rodney Yamane, et al.’s Motion for Summary Judgment,
or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication  

2.      Rodney Yamane, et al.’s Motion to Bifurcate Trial


TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Rodney
Yamane, et al.’s Motion for Summary Judgment is denied. The alternative motion
for summary adjudication is denied, in part, and granted, in part.
 
            Rodeny
Yamane, et al.’s Motion to Bifurcate Trial is moot.
 
Background

 
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on June 22, 2022. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff and Defendants entered into an agreement
whereby Plaintiff would maintain, repair, and upgrade the subject real property
located at 7801 Westlawn Avenue, Los Angeles, CA 90045. The agreement was that
when Rodney Yamane passed away the title would be transferred into Plaintiff’s
name. Defendants breached the agreement. Plaintiff alleges the following causes
of action: 1. Breach of Gift Agreement; 2. Promissory Estoppel; 3. Declaratory
Relief; 4. Unjust Enrichment/Constructive Trust; 5. Injunctive Relief; 6.
Equitable Lien.  
 
Requests
for Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiff’s request for judicial
notice is granted pursuant to Evidence Code Section 452(h). 
 
            Objections
 
            Plaintiff’s objection number 1 is overruled.
 
            Defendants’ objections 1 to 64 are
overruled.  
 
Motion
for Summary Judgment and/or Adjudication

The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.)
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden
is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.)  A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”  Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the
court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except
evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Avivi,
159 Cal.App.4th at 467; CCP § 437c(c).)
 
Defendants move for summary judgment on the grounds
that there is no triable issue of material fact as to Plaintiff’s causes of
action. Alternatively, Defendants move for summary adjudication of the
following issues: Issue 1 – the first cause of action for breach of a
gift/will; Issue 2 – the second cause of action for promissory estoppel; Issue
3 – the second cause of action for promissory estoppel; Issue 4 – the fourth
cause of action for constructive trust and sixth cause of action for equitable
lien; Issue 5 – the third cause of action for declaratory relief and fifth
cause of action for injunctive relief. (Defendant’s Notice of Motion, pages 2-3.)
 
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is denied.
Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication of Issues 1, 4, and 5 are denied.
Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication of Issue 2 is granted and the
motion for summary adjudication of Issue 3 is moot.
 
First Cause of Action for Breach of Gift Agreement
 
Civ. Code § 1624(a)(3) states, in relevant part: “The
following contracts are invalid, unless they, or some note or memorandum
thereof, are in writing and subscribed by the party to be charged or by the
party's agent: (3) An agreement for. . .. the sale of real property, or of an
interest therein; such an agreement, if made by an agent of the party sought to
be charged, is invalid, unless the authority of the agent is in writing,
subscribed by the party sought to be charged.”
 
“However, it now is established that where a parol
gift of real property is made in praesenti pursuant to which possession
thereof is given to and taken by the donee who, in reliance thereon, places
valuable and permanent improvements upon the realty, makes substantial
expenditures in connection therewith, or otherwise so acts in relation thereto
as to make it unjust to deprive him of the property by reason of an
imperfection in the mode of transfer, equity will not permit reliance upon the
statute of fraud to defeat the intended gift. Fundamentally, the rule as stated
is based upon the equitable principle of estoppel. Its application requires
proof not only of the transfer of possession of the subject property to the
donee, but also of his receipt in reliance thereon of a detriment of a
sufficient degree to make it unjust not to effect the attempted transfer of
title to him. Where the monetary  detriment
suffered by the donee does not exceed the benefit to him of the use of the land
without charge or rental, and no other circumstances of hardship are shown, the
basis for an estoppel does not exist.” Andreotti v. Andreotti (1964) 224
Cal.App.2d 533, 538 (internal citations omitted; emphasis in original).
 
“Equitable estoppel may preclude the use of a statute
of frauds defense. In the leading case on the subject, Justice Traynor wrote:
“The doctrine of estoppel to assert the statute of frauds has been consistently
applied by the courts of this state to prevent fraud that would result from
refusal to enforce oral contracts in certain circumstances. Such fraud may
inhere in the unconscionable injury that would result from denying enforcement
of the contract after one party has been induced by the other seriously to
change his position in reliance on the contract....” Whether the doctrine of
equitable estoppel should be applied in a given case is generally a question of
fact.” Byrne v. Laura (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 1054, 1068 (internal
citations omitted).
 
Defendants have met their initial burden to show that
Plaintiff’s cause of action has no merit by showing that one or more elements
of the cause of action cannot be established. 
However, Plaintiff has met her burden, pursuant to CCP § 437c(p)(2), to
provide specific facts to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the cause of action.  (Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement of Facts and Supporting Evidence, 5, 7-10, 17, 19, 20, 28,
46, and 62-139.)
 
Plaintiff has failed to submit competent evidence of a
writing memorializing the alleged agreement to transfer real property.  Plaintiff refers to the relevant trust
instruments. (Plaintiff’s Response to Separate Statement, 6.)  However, through discovery it has been
revealed that the trust is a revocable trust subject to amendment.  Plaintiff acknowledges that any claim based on
the language of the trust instrument is binding only if the trust is
irrevocable. Thus, the Court must analyze the motion based on the equitable
estoppel principles noted above.
 
Here, Plaintiff has provided evidence that she made
valuable and permanent improvements upon the property and made substantial
expenditures in connection with the alleged agreement.  (Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Facts and
Supporting Evidence, 5, 7-10, 17, 19, 20, 28, 46, and 62-139.)  According to Plaintiff, the amount expended
was $182,098.44.  (Decl., Dina Chang, ¶¶ 26-27.)
 Defendant argues that the subject market
rental value over the period that Plaintiff occupied the property is $174,250.  Defendant contends that Plaintiff expended $170.015.28,
and, therefore, the amount expended is less than the benefit that Plaintiff has
received. Thus, Defendant argues that equitable estoppel principles are not
available to provide an exception to the statute of frauds. 
 
It is not clear how the latter amount was derived
since Plaintiff’s own declaration places the amount greater than the market
rental value. Plaintiff’s evidence places the amount greater than the alleged
rental value. Thus, a triable issue of material fact exists as to whether the
statute of frauds provides a complete defense to Defendants. In addition, as
noted by the authorities above, “other circumstance of hardship,” may also be
considered when evaluating equitable estoppel principles. Here, Plaintiff provided
such evidence of other circumstances of hardship from the decision to travel
across the country based on the agreement, the decision to forego looking for
other properties, and her current inability to purchase and/or rent a similar
residence for the same price. (Decl., Dina Chang, ¶¶ 5-33.)
 
As noted above, generally, the issue of equitable
estoppel is a question of fact.  Here,
Plaintiff has submitted competent evidence to demonstrate a triable issue of
material fact as to whether principles of equitable estoppel should be invoked
to create an exception to the statute of frauds.  
 
Therefore, the motion for summary adjudication of the
first cause of action is denied.
 
Second Cause of Action for Promissory Estoppel
 
“[T]he doctrine of promissory estoppel is used to
provide a substitute for the consideration which ordinarily is required to
create an enforceable promise.... The purpose of this doctrine is to make a
promise binding, under certain circumstances, without consideration in the
usual sense of something bargained for and given in exchange....” Aceves v.
U.S. Bank, N.A. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 218, 230–231 (internal citations and
quotations omitted). “The elements of a promissory estoppel claim are ‘(1) a
promise clear and unambiguous in its terms; (2) reliance by the party to whom
the promise is made; (3) [the] reliance must be both reasonable and
foreseeable; and (4) the party asserting the estoppel must be injured by his
reliance.” Flintco Pacific, Inc. v. TEC Management Consultants, Inc.
(2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 727, 734. 
 
“The purpose of this doctrine is to make a promise
binding, under certain circumstances, without consideration in the usual sense
of something bargained for and given in exchange. If the promisee's performance
was requested at the time the promisor made his promise and that performance
was bargained for, the doctrine is inapplicable.” Youngman v. Nevada Irr.
Dist. (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 249. “The doctrine of promissory estoppel is inapplicable
where the promisee's performance was requested by the promisor at the time the
promise was made.”  Healy v. Brewster
(1963) 59 Cal.2d 455, 463.
 
The motion for summary adjudication of the second
cause of action is granted. There is no triable issue of material fact that
consideration was provided by Plaintiff for the alleged promise.  In fact, Plaintiff submitted evidence
demonstrating such consideration in support of the opposition to the motion for
summary adjudication of the first cause of action.  Plaintiff admits that the bargained for
exchange included her obligation to relocate to Los Angeles, occupy and
maintain the property, and pay all maintenance and other related expenses. To
show the existence of a triable issue of material fact with respect to the
first cause of action, Plaintiff submitted evidence to support her expenditures
for relocation and payment of maintenance and expenses as noted above in the
ruling to the motion for summary adjudication of the first cause of action.
 
The motion for summary adjudication of the second
cause of action is granted. 
 
Third Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1060 states, in relevant part:
“Any person interested under a written instrument,
excluding a will or a trust, or under a contract, or who desires a declaration
of his or her rights or duties with respect to another, or in respect to, in,
over or upon property, [. . .]may, in cases of actual controversy relating to
the legal rights and duties of the respective parties, bring an original action
or cross-complaint in the superior court for a declaration of his or her rights
and duties in the premises, including a determination of any question of
construction or validity arising under the instrument or contract. He or she
may ask for a declaration of rights or duties, either alone or with other
relief; and the court may make a binding declaration of these rights or duties,
whether or not further relief is or could be claimed at the time. The
declaration may be either affirmative or negative in form and effect, and the
declaration shall have the force of a final judgment. The declaration may be
had before there has been any breach of the obligation in respect to which said
declaration is sought.”
 
“To qualify for declaratory relief, [Plaintiff] would
have to demonstrate its action presented two essential elements: “(1) a proper
subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving
justiciable questions relating to [Plaintiff’s] rights or obligations.... But
even assuming that [Plaintiff’s] action satisfies the first requirement, it
must still present an ‘actual controversy.’ The ‘actual controversy’ language
in Code of Civil Procedure section 1060 encompasses a probable future controversy
relating to the legal rights and duties of the parties. It does not embrace
controversies that are conjectural, anticipated to occur in the future, or an
attempt to obtain an advisory opinion from the court. Thus, while a party may
seek declaratory judgment before an actual invasion of rights has occurred, it
must still demonstrate that the controversy is justiciable. And to be
justiciable, the controversy must be ripe.” Wilson & Wilson v. City
Council of Redwood City (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 1559, 1582 (internal
citations and quotations omitted; emphasis in original). 
 
Fourth Cause of Action for Unjust
Enrichment/Constructive Trust
 
Unjust Enrichment is not a cause of action.  See, Hill v. Roll Int'l Corp. (2011)
195 Cal.App.4th 1295, 1307.  The Court
may, however, recognize a cause of action based on quasi-contract to obtain the
remedy of restitution.  See McKell v.
Washington Mutual, Inc. (2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 1457, 1490.  "The elements of an unjust enrichment
claim are the receipt of a benefit and [the] unjust retention of the benefit at
the expense of another."  Peterson
v. Cellco Partnership (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1583, 1593-94. 
 
“Another remedy tied to the concept of unjust
enrichment is “constructive trust.” A constructive trust is an involuntary
equitable trust created by operation of law as a remedy to compel the transfer
of property from the person wrongfully holding it to the rightful owner.
[Citations.] The essence of the theory of constructive trust is to prevent
unjust enrichment and to prevent a person from taking advantage of his or her
own wrongdoing. The issue of whether to impose a constructive trust is an
equitable issue for the court.” Meister v. Mensinger (2014) 230
Cal.App.4th 381, 399 (internal citations and quotations omitted). 
 
Fifth Cause of Action for Injunctive Relief
 
“Injunctive relief is a remedy, not a cause of
action.” Guessous v. Chrome Hearts, LLC (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 1177,
1187.
 
Sixth Cause of Action for Equitable Lien  
 
“An equitable lien is a right to subject property not
in the possession of the lienor to the payment of a debt as a charge against
that property. [Citation.] It may arise from a contract which reveals an intent
to charge particular property with a debt or ‘out of general considerations of
right and justice as applied to the relations of the parties and the
circumstances of their dealings.’ [Citation.] ‘The basis of equitable liens is
variously placed on the doctrines of estoppel, or unjust enrichment, or on the
principle that a person having obtained an estate of another ought not in
conscience to keep it as between them; and frequently it is based on the
equitable maxim that equity will deem as done that which ought to be done, or
that he who seeks the aid of equity must himself do equity.’ [Citation.]” Farmers
Ins. Exchange v. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 453.
 
As to the third through sixth “causes of action,” it
is clear in the context of the allegations and evidence submitted in this
action, these are not traditional “causes of action” but instead resemble remedies
that can be maintained in connection with the first cause of action.  Had the moving party requested and had there
been sufficient time prior to the trial date to treat this portion of the
motion as a motion for judgment on the pleadings, the Court would have
considered ruling in that manner.  However,
in light of the failure to request such treatment and the short time before the
trial date, the Court simply rules on the motion as noticed – a motion for
summary adjudication.  Because the motion
for summary adjudication of the first cause of action was denied, the motion
for summary adjudication of the third through sixth causes of action, which are
essentially remedies in connection with the first cause of action, is also denied.
 
Thus, for the foregoing reasons, the motion for
summary adjudication of the third through sixth causes of action is denied.
 
Motion to Bifurcate Trial
 
Pursuant to CCP § 1048(b) and CCP § 598, the Court may
order separate trials on the issues of liability and damages. In actions
involving both legal and equitable causes of action, the Court should try the
equitable actions first, without a jury. 
Trying the equitable actions first may dispose of some or all of the
legal issues.  
 
“It is well established that, in a case involving both
legal and equitable issues, the trial court may proceed to try the equitable
issues first, without a jury [. . .], and that if the court's determination of
those issues is also dispositive of the legal issues, nothing further remains
to be tried by a jury.”  Raedeke v.
Gibraltar Sav. & Loan Assn. (1974) 10 Cal.3d 665, 671.
 
“It is well established that, in a case involving both
legal and equitable issues, the trial court may proceed to try the equitable
issues first, without a jury..., and that if the court's determination of those
issues is also dispositive of the legal issues, nothing further remains to be
tried by a jury.  Indeed, reviewing
courts have emphasized that the better practice for trial courts is to decide
equitable issues first for the explicit reason that a jury trial on any legal
issues may be avoided.  Generally, in
mixed actions, the equitable issues should be tried first by the court, either
with or without an advisory jury.  Trial
courts are encouraged to apply this ‘equity first’ rule because it promotes
judicial economy by potentially obviating the need for a jury trial.”  Orange County Water District v. Alcoa
Global Fasteners, Inc. (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 252, 355.
 
Defendants “move the Court pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure §§ 598 and 1048(b) for an order bifurcating the trial of Plaintiff
Dina Chang’s equitable claims and issues alleged in her Complaint, including:
(1) enforcement (i.e., specific performance) of a parol gift of real property
as alleged in Count I; (2) promissory estoppel alleged in Count II; (3)
declaratory relief alleged in Count III; (4) constructive trust alleged in
Count IV; (5) injunctive relief alleged in Count V; and (6) equitable lien alleged
in Count VI.” (Notice of Motion, page 2, lines 6-11.)
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition conceding that the
action only involves equitable issues that should be tried by the Court and has
withdrawn her request for a jury trial. Thus, the motion is moot, and the
matter will now proceed solely as a bench trial.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.