 Case Number:  23CHLC23201    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           YT Solutions
India Pvt. v. Sanli Pastore & Hill, Inc., 
CASE NO.:                23CHLC23201
MOTION:                  Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings
HEARING DATE:   3/27/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
A
defendant’s motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made after the time to
demur has expired and an answer has been filed. (CCP § 438(f).) A motion by a
defendant may be made on the grounds that (1) the court “lacks jurisdiction of
the subject of one or more of the causes of action alleged” or (2) the
complaint or cross-complaint “does not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action against that defendant.” (CCP § 438(c).)
 
A motion
for judgment on the pleadings has the same function as a general demurrer but
is made after the time for demurrer has expired. Except as provided by statute,
the rules governing demurrers apply. (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp.
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999.) “A motion for judgment on the pleadings is
akin to a general demurrer; it tests the sufficiency of the complaint to state
a cause of action. The court must assume the truth of all factual allegations
in the complaint, along with matters subject to judicial notice.” (Wise v.
Pacific Gas and Elec. Co. (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 725, 738, citations
omitted.) Further, like a general demurrer, a motion for judgment on the
pleadings “does not lie as to a portion of a cause of action, and if any part
of a cause of action is properly pleaded, the [motion] will be overruled.” (Fire
Ins. Exchange v. Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.) 
 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant submits a California Secretary of State Business Search,
conducted on January 8, 2024, showing no results for “YT Solutions PVT” as
registered to do business in California. (Ex. A.) First, the court notes that
plaintiff is not called “YT Solutions PVT.” Thus, this evidence is of limited
value. Second, this fact is irrelevant to show that Plaintiff must register
with the Secretary of State. It also does not show Plaintiff has transacted
“intrastate business.” Accordingly, judicial notice is DENIED. The Court notes
that the motion would still be denied even if judicial notice was granted.
 
Analysis
 
Defendant Sanli Pastore & Hill
Inc. moves for judgment on the pleadings on the grounds that Plaintiff YT
Solutions India PVT is an Indian corporation, not registered to do business in
California. Defendant argues that under Corporations Code §§
2203(c) and 17456(a), YT Solutions is prohibited from maintaining any
litigation in Superior Court until it registers and pays the requisite fees.
 
Corporations Code section 2105(a)
prohibits any foreign corporation from transacting “intrastate business without
having first obtained from the Secretary of State a certificate of
qualification.” Corporations Code section 2203(c) prohibits any foreign
corporation “which transacts intrastate business without complying with Section
2105” from maintaining any action or proceeding “upon any intrastate business…
until it has complied with the provisions” of section 2105, paid certain
penalties to the Secretary of State, and filed with the clerk of the court
pending receipts showing the payment of the fees, penalties and all outstanding
taxes that should have been paid for the period during which it transacted
intrastate business.  Corporations Code
section 17456(a) provides that a “foreign limited liability company transacting
intrastate business in this state shall not maintain any action, suit, or
proceeding in any court of this state until it has registered in this state.”
 
All of the cited sections require
that a foreign company at least “transact intrastate business” before it is required
to register with the Secretary of State. “Transact intrastate
business” means “entering into repeated and successive transactions of
its business in this state, other than interstate or foreign commerce.” (Corp.
Code § 191(a).) 
 
The record here does not demonstrate
that Plaintiff transacted any intrastate business. Plaintiff does not allege
that this claim arises from intrastate business. Instead, the complaint alleges
that Plaintiff is a corporation engaged in “international commerce.” (Compl., ¶
3.) Plaintiff insists that YT Solutions conducted intrastate business because
it “hired a representative and paid commissions to induce SP&H to enter
into the Contract.” (Mot. 7.) This bald assertion is extrinsic to the pleadings
and cannot be considered on a motion for judgment on the pleadings. Thus, there
is no basis in the record for Defendant’s motion.
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.