 Case Number:  BS170239    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
Hearing Date: 6/27/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: BS170239 DANIEL GEOULLA VS
CALIFORNIA AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY
Moving Party: Claimant Daniel Geoulla
Responding Party: Respondent  
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION IS CONTINUED TO JULY 11, 2024. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The California UM/UIM Motorist Law is set forth in
Insurance Code §11580.2. Insurance Code §11580.2(i) provides: 
 
(1) No cause of action shall accrue to the insured under any policy or
endorsement provision issued pursuant to this section unless one of the
following actions have been taken within two years from the date of the
accident: 
 
(A) Suit for bodily injury has been filed against the uninsured
motorist, in a court of competent jurisdiction. 
(B) Agreement as to the amount due under the policy has been concluded. 
(C) The insured has formally instituted arbitration proceedings by
notifying the insurer in writing sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested. Notice shall be sent to the insurer or to the agent for process
designated by the insurer filed with the department. 
 
(2) Any arbitration instituted pursuant to this section shall be
concluded either: 
 
(A) Within five years from the institution of the arbitration
proceeding. 
(B) If the insured has a workers' compensation claim arising from the
same accident, within three years of the date the claim is concluded, or within
the five-year period set forth in subparagraph (A), whichever occurs later. 
 
(3) The doctrines of estoppel, waiver, impossibility, impracticality,
and futility apply to excuse a party's noncompliance with the statutory
timeframe, as determined by the court. 
 
(4) Parties to the insurance contract may stipulate in writing to
extending the time to conclude arbitration. 
 
(Cal. Ins. Code § 11580.2.) 
 
Discussion
On July 20, 2017,
Claimant Daniel Geoulla filed the present UIM case against Respondent. In April
2021, the case was dismissed for failure to prosecute and subsequently appealed
and reinstated in 2024. The five-year statutory deadline is currently set for
September 4, 2024. Claimant now moves the Court to compel arbitration on August
1, 2024, a date when Darrel Forgey, the arbitrator agreed upon by the parties,
is available. Respondent filed an opposition stating that it agrees to
arbitration but requests a 60-day extension to the five-year deadline, given
that it has a motion to compel to be heard on July 11, 2024, for Claimant’s
second IME with Dr. Weinstein on August 26, 2024.  The Court will decide this motion at the time
that it hears Respondent’s motion to compel a second IME.  In the meantime, the parties are ordered to
meet and confer further on the issue of a second IME and on the issue of a date
for arbitration.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 