 Case Number:  23STCV07378    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  26 Background
 
This is a lemon law action arising out of the purchase of a 2022
Volkswagen Tiguan sold and manufactured by Defendant Volkswagen Group of
America  (“Defendant”).  Plaintiff
Liliana Carrillo filed the present motion to compel further on September 5,
2024, seeking further responses to Requests for Production No. 16–21. Defendant
filed an opposition on  Defendant filed
an opposition on April 24, 2024.  Plaintiff filed a reply on April 29,
2024. 
Plaintiff’s Requests for Production No. 16–21 seek documents
related to Defendant’s internal analyses, communications, decisions to issue
recalls or technical service bulletins, customer complaints, and failure rates
for vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the subject vehicle in this
action, related to a defined “body system defect.” Defendant has responded only
with objections. 
Legal
Standard  
“A party may demand that any other party produce . . . a
document that is in the possession, custody, or control of the party on whom
the demand is made.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.010(b).) The demanding party may
move for an order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding
party deems that (1) a statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete,
(2) a representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive, or (3) an objection in the response is without merit or too general.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(a).) “The motion shall set forth specific facts
showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand,” and “[t]he
motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b).) 
A motion to compel a further response to an inspection
demand must set forth specific facts showing “good cause” justifying the
discovery sought by the inspection demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1); Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95
Cal.App.4th 92, 98.) Unless there is a legitimate privilege issue or claim of
attorney work product, that burden is met simply by a fact-specific showing of
relevance. (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v.
Superior Court (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 443, 444.) Once the moving party demonstrates
good cause for the discovery, the burden is on the responding party to justify
any objection or failure to fully respond to the inspection demand.  (Coy v
Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220.)  
Discussion 
The discovery requests at issue seek the following
information:
16.  All
documents “relating to any internal analysis or investigation” regarding a
“body system defect,” earlier defined as a defect manifesting by the appearance
of various symptoms in the vehicle;
17.  All
documents relating to “any communications” had regarding the body system
defect;
18.  All
documents relating to “any decision to issue any notices, letters, campaigns,
warranty extensions, technical service bulletins and recalls concerning” the
body system defect;
19.  All
documents concerning “customer complaints, claims, reported failures, and
warranty claims” related to the body system defect;
20.  All
documents “concerning failure rates” of vehicles as a result of the body system
defect;
21.  All
documents relating to “any fixes” for the body system defect.
(Separate
Statement.) Each of the requests limits its scope to vehicles of the same year,
make, and model, as the subject vehicle in this case. 
            Defendant responded to each request
at issue with objections based on overbreadth, vagueness, undue burden,
privacy, attorney-client privilege, attorney work product, and trade secret
protections. (Separate Statement.)
            Good cause supports the requests,
because information related the same defect in other vehicles of the same year,
make, and model is relevant to support a prayer for civil penalties under the
Song Beverly Act. . (Civ. Code § 1794, subd. (c).) Thus discovery into that
manufacturer’s knowledge of other vehicles with similar defects may be
permissible.
Case authority supports this proposition. The court in Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009)
174 Cal.App.4th 967, 993–994, held that Bentley’s failure to turn over customer
complaints regarding defects on other Bentleys to support the plaintiff’s claim
under the Song-Beverly Act was an abuse of discovery so flagrant that the trial
court abused its discretion by not
imposing terminating sanctions. Other cases have embraced an evidentiary rule
similar to that only implicit in Doppes.
In Donlen v. Ford Motor Company
(2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, the trial court allowed an expert to testify that a
particular transmission was defective 
because he had heard from “others” that the same transmission in “other
vehicle[s]” was “problematic.” The Court of Appeal held that the “other
vehicle” testimony was properly “limited to the transmission model Ford
installed in plaintiff’s truck and other vehicles.”  (Id.
at p. 154.)  The court held that “[s]uch
evidence certainly was probative and not unduly prejudicial.”  (Ibid.)
And in another case, Santana v. FCA US, LLC (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th
334, 347, the court held that a manufacturer’s internal emails concerning a
mechanical defect in a lemon law case were relevant to show that the
manufacturer “intentionally chose not to honor the express warranty,” and thus
merited civil penalties.
Defendant argues in opposition that the omnibus language of
the requests — seeking “all documents” that are “related to” a given subject —
renders the discovery overbroad and burdensome. (Opposition at p. 3.) But the
authority cited for this proposition does not support such a per se rule; it
rather states that such terms may render a request overbroad, but when “the
omnibus phrase modifies a sufficiently specific type of information, document,
or event, rather than large or general categories of information or documents,
the request will not be deemed overly broad on its face.” (Cardenas v. Dorel
Juvenile Group, Inc. (D. Kan. 2005) 230 F.R.D. 611, 623.) Here, the
requests are limited to identified symptoms as manifested in vehicles of the
same year, make, and model. Nor has Defendant offered any evidence that the
process of recovering responsive information would be difficult or burdensome. “[T]he
party opposing discovery has an obligation to supply the basis for this [undue
burden] determination,” and to provide evidence “showing the quantum of work
required.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 549.) No
such showing has been made here.
CONCLUSIONS
AND ORDER 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel further is GRANTED. Plaintiff
to provide notice.