 Case Number:  22STCV28564    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  26 Procedural
Background
On September 1, 2022, Plaintiff Christina Development Corporation
(“CDC”) filed the instant tortious interference action against Defendant Steven
Raymond Short (“Short”). The complaint asserts five causes of action for (1)
Tortious Interference with Contractual Relations, (2) Defamation, (3) Civil
Harassment, (4) Conversion, and (5) Breach of Contract. 
On January 18, 2023, Short filed the case, Steve Short v. Christina
Development Corporation; Christina Properties Limited, et al. Los Angeles
Superior Court, Case No. 23VECV00203 for Labor Code violations against CDC,
Christina Properties Limited, G&A Partners, LTD, David Allen Whitehead,
Lawrence Norman Taylor, Adam Jacob Rosenkranz, Vincent Chan, Connor Stephen
Wilks, JW Associates, LLC, Empire View Homes, LLC, and Crescent Hill Lofts,
LLC. 
On March 10, 2023, CDC filed a notice of related cases with the case
entitled Steve Short v. Christina Development Corporation; Christina Properties
Limited, et al. Los Angeles Superior Court, Case No. 23VECV00203. On March 29,
2023, the Court found the two cases related and set an Order to Show Cause as
to why the cases should not be consolidated. (Minute Order 3/29/23.) On April
20, 2023, the Court consolidated the two actions for all purposes. (Minute
Order 4/20/23.)
On June 13, 2023, Plaintiff Short filed a second amended complaint
(“SAC”) against Defendants CDC, Christina Properties Limited, G&A Partners,
LTD, David Allen Whitehead, Lawrence Norman Taylor, Adam Jacob Rosenkranz,
Vincent Chan, Connor Stephen Wilks, JW Associates, LLC, Empire View Homes, LLC,
Crescent Hill Lofts, LLC, and Chateau Park Homes, LLC. The SAC asserts nineteen
causes of action for (1) Failure to Pay Sick Time Per LAMC §§ 187, 188 and
Labor Code § 558.1, (2) Breach of Contract, (3) Civil Harassment – Civil Code §
527.6 and Labor Code § 1290(j)(1), (4) Not Paying Expenses – Labor Cde § 2802
and Labor Code § 558.1, (5) Retaliation, (6) Hostile Work Environment, (7)
Using Megan’s Law Website to Terminate in Violation of Penal Code §
290.4(d)(1)(E), (8) Not Paying Overtime in Violation of Labor Code §§ 510,
558.1, (9) Forcing Plaintiff to be a Part of its Loan Fraud in Violation of
Civil Code § 1710, (10) Conversion, (11) Disclosing that Plaintiff is Listed on
Megan’s Law Website in Violation of Violation of Penal Code § 290.4(d)(1), (12)
Unfair Competition Law – Business and Professions Code § 17200, et seq., (13)
Not Paying Minimum Wage in Violation of Labor Code §§ 1197, 558.1, (14) Failure
to Pay Sick Time under the WHMC § 5.130.030 and Labor Code § 558.1, (15) False
Promise to Induce Plaintiff into Employment per Labor Code §§ 970, 558.1, (16)
Wrongful Termination, (17) OSHA Safety Violations, (18) Whistleblower
Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code § 1102.5, and (19) Invasion of Privacy. 
On June 26, 2023, Defendants CDC, Christina Properties Limited, David
Allen Whitehead, Lawrence Norman Taylor, Adam Jacob Rosenkranz, Vincent Chan,
Connor Stephen Wilks, JW Associates, LLC, Empire View Homes, LLC, and Crescent
Hill Lofts, LLC filed a demurrer to Short’s SAC. The Court sustained the
demurrer in part as to Short’s first, second, third, fifth, sixth, eighth,
ninth, fourteenth, fifteenth, seventeenth, and eighteenth causes of action with
leave to amend, file, and serve a Third Amended Complaint. 
On September 11, 2023, the instant consolidated action was deemed
related to the case entitled Christina Development Corporation v. Creditlink
Corporation, et al., Los Angeles Superior Court, Case No. 23STCV18491. (Minute
Order 9/11/23.)
On December 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to compel
arbitration. 
On January 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative third amended
Complaint (“TAC”) for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Civil Harassment – Civil Code
§ 527.6 and Labor Code § 1290(j)(1), (3) Not Paying Expenses – Labor Cde § 2802
and Labor Code § 558.1, (4) Retaliation, (5) Hostile Work Environment, (6)
Using Megan’s Law Website to Terminate in Violation of Penal Code §
290.4(d)(1)(E), (7) Not Paying Overtime in Violation of Labor Code §§ 510,
558.1, (8) Forcing Plaintiff to be a Part of its Loan Fraud in Violation of
Civil Code § 1710, (9) Conversion, (10) Disclosing that Plaintiff is Listed on
Megan’s Law Website in Violation of Violation of Penal Code § 290.4(d)(1), (11)
Unfair Competition Law – Business and Professions Code § 17200, et seq., (12)
Not Paying Minimum Wage in Violation of Labor Code §§ 1197, 558.1, (13)
Wrongful Termination, and (14) Invasion of Privacy. 
Defendants file in opposition. Plaintiff files in reply. 
Legal
Standard
California law incorporates many of the basic policy objectives
contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of
arbitrability.  (See Engalla v. Permanente
Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72.) Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281, a “written agreement to submit to arbitration an existing
controversy or a controversy thereafter arising is valid, enforceable and
irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist for the revocation of any
contract.” 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party
thereto refuses to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists, unless it determines
that:
(a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the petitioner;
or
(b) Grounds exist for the revocation of the agreement.
(c) A party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending
court action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same
transaction or series of related transactions and there is a possibility of
conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. . . .”  (CCP §1281.2.)
The right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel
arbitration is simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that
contract.  (Marcus & Millichap Real Estate Inv. Brokerage Co. v. Hock Inv. Co.
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 83, 88.)  When
presented with a petition to compel arbitration, the trial court's first task
is to determine whether the parties have in fact agreed to arbitrate the
dispute.  (Id.)  
“Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394] explained: ‘[W]hen a petition to
compel arbitration is filed and accompanied by prima facie evidence of a
written agreement to arbitrate the controversy, the court itself must determine
whether the agreement exists and, if any defense to its enforcement is raised,
whether it is enforceable.  Because the
existence of the agreement is a statutory prerequisite to granting the
petition, the petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence by a
preponderance of the evidence.  If the
party opposing the petition raises a defense to enforcement—either fraud in the
execution voiding the agreement, or a statutory defense of waiver or revocation
(see §1281.2(a), (b))—that party bears the burden of producing evidence of, and
proving by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to the defense.’
(Rosenthal, supra, at 413.)  According to Rosenthal, facts relevant to enforcement of the arbitration
agreement must be determined ‘in the manner . . . provided by law for the . . .
hearing of motions.’ (Rosenthal,
supra, at 413, quoting §1290.2.)  This ‘ordinarily
mean[s] the facts are to be proven by affidavit or declaration and documentary
evidence, with oral testimony taken only in the court’s discretion.’ (Rosenthal, supra, at 413–414; . .
.).”  (Hotels Nevada v. L.A. Pacific Center, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th
754, 761-62.)
Discussion
Existence
of an Agreement to Arbitrate
Under both the Federal Arbitration Act and California law, arbitration
agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that
exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. 
(Winter v. Window Fashions
Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)  In ruling on a motion to compel arbitration,
the court must first determine whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate
the dispute, and general principles of California contract law help guide the
court in making this determination.  (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center
(2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.)  “With
respect to the moving party’s burden to provide evidence of the existence of an agreement to arbitrate,
it is generally sufficient for that party to present a copy of the contract to
the court.”  (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152,
1160.)
Plaintiff prays for the court to issue an order
compelling the Defendants Christina Development Corporation and G&A
Partners, Ltd to submit to binding arbitration. Plaintiff provides a copy of
the party's agreement to arbitrate and states that Plaintiff requested
arbitration in January 2022 or February 2022 during a phone conversation with
Defendant Christina Development’s Chief Fraud Officer Vincent Chan( Mot. p. 2.)
Plaintiff contends he was unaware that he had any recourse over Defendants’
refusal to abide by the arbitration agreement until recently and that
practically nothing has been done on this case other than discovery. (Id.) The
arbitration agreement provides in relevant part:

 
[Employee] …and Worksite employer CHRISTINA
DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (“Company”) and G&A Partners and/or its
affiliates (“PEO” or “G&A Partners”) agree to utilize binding arbitration
as the sole an exclusive means to resolve all disputes that may arise between
employee and the Company and/or Employee and PEO, including but not limited to
disputes regarding termination of employment and compensation. Employee
specifically waives and relinquishes his/her right to bring a claim against the
company and/or PEO, in a court of law, and this waiver shall be equally binding
on any person who represents or seeks to represent Employee in a lawsuit
against the company or PEO in a court of law. Similarly, the Company and PEO
specifically waives and relinquish their rights to bring a claim against
employee in a court of law, and this waiver shall be equally binding on any
person who represents or seeks to represent the company or PEO in a lawsuit
against the Employee in a court of law.
(Mot.
Exh 1.)
            The Arbitration Agreement appears to
bear the signatures of Christina Development Corporation, G&A Partners, Ltd.,
and the Plaintiff. (Id.)  
            “[Plaintiff] may meet their initial
burden to show an agreement to arbitrate by attaching a copy of the arbitration
agreement purportedly bearing the opposing party’s signature.” (Espejo v.
Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047,
1060; see also Bannister v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64
Cal.App.5th 541 [“The party seeking arbitration can meet its initial burden by
attaching to the petition a copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to
bear the respondent's signature.”].)  Accordingly,
Plaintiff has met his initial burden by attaching arbitration agreements
purportedly bearing the parties’ signatures.
            In opposition, Defendants contend
that Plaintiff has unequivocally waived his right to arbitrate by substantially
engaging in the litigation process. 
Plaintiff’s
Implied Waiver by Litigation 
“In determining waiver, a court can
consider ‘(1) whether the party's actions are inconsistent with the right to
arbitrate; (2) whether “the litigation machinery has been substantially
invoked” and the parties “were well into preparation of a lawsuit” before the
party notified the opposing party of an intent to arbitrate; (3) whether a
party either requested arbitration enforcement close to the trial date or
delayed for a long period before seeking a stay; (4) whether a defendant
seeking arbitration filed a counterclaim without asking for a stay of the
proceedings; (5) “whether important intervening steps [e.g., taking advantage
of judicial discovery procedures not available in arbitration] had taken
place”; and (6) whether the delay “affected, misled, or prejudiced” the
opposing party.’ ” 
(St.
Agnes Medical Center v. PacifiCare of California (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187,
1195-1196.) Defendants assert that Plaintiff has unequivocally waived his right
to arbitrate by unreasonably delaying his request for arbitration, taking
inconsistent actions regarding his right to arbitrate, and propounding more
than 200 discovery requests. Defendants additionally contend that ordering
arbitration for two out of fourteen Defendants creates the danger of
conflicting rulings on common issues of law and fact because most Defendants
are not signatories to the Arbitration Agreement and thus would be unable to
participate in the arbitration. The Court agrees, considering that the
consolidated cases and the causes of actions alleged against the Defendants
arise from the same series of related transactions. 
It's clear that Plaintiff’s conduct is inconsistent with his right to
arbitrate. First, the Arbitration Agreement specifies that Plaintiff and the
company waive the right to bring his claim to court for adjudication. While the
mere filing of a lawsuit is insufficient to find that Plaintiff has waived his
right, Plaintiff continued with the litigation despite admitting to having
requested arbitration around January or February 2022, which shows his actions
were inconsistent with his right to arbitrate. Although Plaintiff states that
he did not know of any recourse over Defendants’ refusal to abide by the
arbitration agreement, Plaintiff filed this action on September 01, 2022, and
waited over two years to file a motion to compel arbitration, thereby
indicating his substantial invocation of the litigation machinery. Plaintiff has
taken important intervening steps by propounding several discovery requests, many
of which are motions pending before the Court. Furthermore, Plaintiff’s delay
has affected and misled the Defendants because when he initially filed his motion
to compel arbitration, Plaintiff instead withdrew the motion and later filed
another motion to compel arbitration. The Court additionally agrees with the
Defendants' contention that arbitration, in this case, would substantially
prejudice the Defendants, who have already committed substantial time and
resources towards litigating the lawsuit and related matters. This conduct,
therefore, was inconsistent with the right to arbitrate, substantially invoked
the machinery of litigation, and after important intervening steps in the form
of discovery.  
Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has waived the right to
arbitration.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Plaintiff Steve Short’s motion to compel arbitration is DENIED.  
Moving Party is to give notice and file proof of service of such.