  Case Number:  20STCV49018    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  C GAMEZ, ET AL. v. COUNTY
OF LOS ANGELES, ET AL. 
CASE NO.: 20STCV49018
HEARING:  01/09/25 
 
#9 
 
I.               
Defendants County of Los Angeles, Leticia
Garcia, Francine Jimenez, and Gabriela Alcala’s Motion for Summary Judgment of Plaintiffs’
First Amended Complaint is deemed to be a Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings.
The Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED with 30 days leave to
amend. 
 
II.             
Cross-Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is
DENIED. Cross-Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication is DENIED.

 
Opposing Party(s) to give notice. 
 
Background
 
This wrongful death action was filed by Plaintiffs MARIA
GAMEZ; K.G., a minor through her Guardian ad Litem, Maria Gamez; and A.G., a
minor through his Guardian ad Litem Maria Gamez (collectively “Plaintiffs”)
against Defendants COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES (“County”); LETICIA GARCIA; GABRIA
ALCALA; FRANCINE JIMINEZ; GERALDO GAMEZ; TOMAS GAMEZ; MARIA GUADAULUPE GAMEZ
and Does 1 to 100 on December 22, 2020. 
On August 26,
2021, Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). The FAC
alleges the following relevant facts: The County took
custody of James Gamez (“J.G.”) and his two siblings, K.G. and A.G., from their
mother and placed them with his paternal aunt and uncle. (FAC, ¶ 35.) During
the 2019 to 2020 school year, J.G. experienced increasingly severe asthma, and
the school called J.G.’s home. (FAC, ¶ 37.) But the school was unaware that J.G.
had been placed in foster care; thus, it notified Decedent’s mother. (FAC, ¶
37.) The school advised J.G.’s mother to notify the foster parents that they
needed to take him to a doctor. (FAC, ¶ 37.) J.G.’s mother contacted both the
County of Los Angeles and the foster parents. (FAC, ¶ 37.) The County advised
the mother to contact the foster parents. (FAC, ¶ 38.) The foster parents
disregarded the information. (FAC, ¶ 38.)
“[J.G.] was a nine year old
male with a past medical history of chronic asthma, but very much active and
alive. As a result of abuse and neglect by his foster parents, TOMAS and
GUADALUPE, including failing to obtain proper medical treatment, and the COUNTY
and DCFS failing to heed the warnings of not only his mother, MARIA, but also
the warnings of his school’s administration, his condition worsened because of
their medical neglect and other abuse.” (FAC ¶29.) “JAMES came home from a
family party at his father, GERALDO’s, house around 11:30 p.m. on or about
November 16, 2019. His father, GERALDO, and the foster parents, TOMAS and
GUADALUPE disregarded [J.G.’s]
asthma condition and smoked around him. [J.G.] indicated he was not feeling well, and
eventually stated to his minor sister, K.G., that he did not feel well. His
biological father, GERALDO, and his foster parents, TOMAS and GUADALUPE,
ignored his urgent medical situation. [J.G.] told his sister KG that he was not feeling
good and starting shaking and coughing. Their biological father, GERALDO, and
the foster parents, TOMAS and GUADALUPE still ignoring the worsening medical
situation, KG was forced to assist [J.G.] with his inhaler medication. However, KG noted
that [J.G.] worsened and had
seizure-like activity with his eyes rolling back, he turned pale and he
syncopized and went unconscious. Their biological father, GERALDO, and the
foster parents, TOMAS and GUADALUPE, still ignoring the pleas for help, KG was
forced to call 911 herself. At some point, [J.G.] stopped breathing, and KG attempted CPR. When
the fire department arrived on the scene they found [J.G.] supine on the ground
in the bedroom. He was pulseless in PEA when the EMS arrived. The fire
department expedited the patient to the gurney and started CPR along with BVM.
(FAC ¶30.) J.G. presented to Whittier Hospital in the
early morning on or about November 17, 2019, in a state of cardiorespiratory
arrest. (FAC, ¶ 31.) He then transferred to the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit
of Children’s Hospital of Orange County for further care. (FAC, ¶ 31.) J.G.
died on December 20, 2019. (FAC, ¶ 33.)
The
FAC asserts the following causes of action: 
(1)
Wrongful Death (CCP §377.60.); 
(2)
Negligence (Mandatory Duty); 
(3)
Negligent Supervision; 
(4)
Negligent Hiring and Retention; 
(5)
Violation of Civil Rights (CCP §52.1; and 
(6)
Survival Action (CCP §377.34.) 
Plaintiffs
allege causes of action against the County for violation of mandatory statutory
duties and negligence, arising out of the County's placement, monitoring, and
supervision of J.G. in his foster home. Specifically, the FAC alleges that
various statutes and regulations create mandatory duties on the part of the
County, which the County and social workers breached in their placement, monitoring,
and supervision of J.G. Plaintiffs’ claim of negligence against the County
alleges both direct liability and vicarious liability for the actions of its
social workers and unnamed employees under the doctrine of respondeat superior.
(FAC, ¶ 22.)
On October 29, 2021, Geraldo Gamez, individually and as
personal representative of decedent, filed a cross-complaint against the same
parties and decedent’s mother for the following: 
 
(1) Violation
of Civil Rights (42 U.S.C. 1983)
(2) Monell
Liability
(3) Wrongful
Death
(4) Breach
of Mandatory Duties
(5) Breach
of Duties under Special Relationship; 
(6) Survival
Action; and 
(7) Malicious
Prosecution (against Maria Gamez only).  
 
Cross-Complainant Gamez alleges that J.G. was allergic to
dogs and cats. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 14.)
In 2019, Cross-Defendant Maria Gamez physically attacked Cross-Complainant
Geraldo Gamez out of jealousy. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 15.) Cross-Complainant called 911, and the police arrested
both. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 15.) The
Department of Children and Family Services placed the children with James
Gamez, the cross-complainant’s brother, and his wife, Guadalupe Gamez.
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 15.) They
became their foster parents. (Cross-Compl., ¶15.) Cross-Complainant was given supervised visitation of the
children and no custody or control. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 15.) 
 
Tomas and Guadalupe Gomez had a cat and dog in their home,
and both Cross-Complainant, Cross-Defendant, and other relatives of J.G.
repeatedly advised social worker Leticia Garcia that J.G. was allergic to dogs
and cats. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 17.)
Social worker Leticia Garcia ignored these warnings and dismissed them saying,
“it is good for children to have a cat and dog.” (Cross-Compl., ¶ 17.) Further, the foster parents
lacked first aid and CPR training; hence, they could not handle J.G.’s
emergency needs. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 18.)

 
On November 16, 2019, J.G. started to feel sick after 10:00
or 10:30 p.m. at his foster parents’ house. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 19.) His foster parents attended to
him and asked K.G. to call 911 for them. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 19.) The fire department arrived and took J.G. to Whittier
Hospital. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 19.)
He later transferred to Children’s Hospital of Orange County PICU for further
care. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 19.)
J.G. was diagnosed with cardiopulmonary arrest from severe asthma exacerbation
and treated for asthma continuously. (Cross-Comp., ¶ 19.) He had diffuse brain injury, consistent with catastrophic
brain injury secondary to lack of oxygen. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 19.) On December 20, 2019, J.G.
died. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 19.) 
 
J.G.’s asthma was exacerbated by his continued exposure to the
cat and dog at his foster parents’ home, which Garcia deemed as not relevant to
J.G.’s asthma condition. (Cross-Compl., ¶
20.) J.G.’s condition worsened around October to November 2019 such that
school authorities at Joseph A. Gascon Elementary School became worried over
his deteriorating condition. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 20.) The County did nothing. Garcia dismissed reports of
concern from Cross-Complainant, Cross-Defendant, and other relatives of Cross-Complainant.
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 20.)
 
Cross-Defendants refused to consider placing J.G. with other
qualified relatives according to Welfare and Institutions Code section 361.3.
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 21.) Cross-Complainant
alleges that the social workers were acting within the course and scope of
their duties as employees or agents of the county.
I.               
The County Defendants’ Motion for
Summary Judgment/Adjudication against Plaintiffs’ FAC
Defendants
County of Los Angeles (“County”), Leticia Garcia, Francine Jimenez, and
Gabriela Alcala (collectively “County Defendants”) move for summary judgment,
or in the alternative, summary adjudication, against the FAC. 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
Defendant’s Requests
 
Defendant requests judicial notice of the following: (1)
order authorizing the removal of minors K.G., A.G., and J.G. issued by Los
Angeles Superior Court Judge Rudolph Diaz on August 5, 2019; (2) minute order
dated August 12, 2019, Case No. 19CCJP05067A; (3) minute order dated August 30,
2019, Case No. 19CCJP05067A; (4) Chapters 31-300 through 31-400 of the
California Department of Social Services Child Welfare Services Manual; (5)
California Department of Social Services Resource Family Approval Written
Directives; (6) Order After Judicial Review dated November 22, 2021; (7) Order
After Judicial Review dated May 9, 2022. Defendant cites Evidence Code sections
451 and 452, subdivision (d)(1).
 
The court
takes judicial notice of the existence of the documents identified in the
first, second, third, sixth, and seventh requests. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd.
(d)(1).) However, factual findings in prior judicial orders, opinions, or decisions are not a
proper subject of judicial notice. (Kilroy v. State of Calif.
(2004) 119 Cal. App. 4th 140, 148.) But the finding itself may be a proper
subject of judicial notice if it has a res judicata or collateral estoppel
effect in a subsequent action. (Ibid.) Thus, the Court grants the findings in the
documents identified in the first, second, third, sixth, and seventh requests
if they have a collateral estoppel effect. 

 
The Court grants judicial
notice of the fourth and fifth requests according to Evidence Code section 452,
subdivision (b) and Mounger v. Gates (1987) 193 Cal.App.3d 1248,1257. 
 
Plaintiffs’ Requests
 
Plaintiffs request judicial notice of the following: (1) Los
Angeles County Department of Children and Family Services’ report, “It Has Not
Adequately Ensured the Health and Safety of All Children in Its Care,” Report
2018-126; (2) Declaration of Gerardo Gamez filed on January 3, 2022 with his
opposition to attorney’s fees; and (3) evidence that
Defendant/Cross-Complainant, Gerardo Gamez, submitted in support of his
Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment and Adjudication. Plaintiffs cite
Evidence Code sections 451 and 452, subdivision (d)(1). 
 
A court may take judicial notice of the contents of its own records. (Dwan
v. Dixon (1963) 216 Cal.App.2d 260, 265.) Thus, it grants the second and
third request. 
 
Plaintiffs do not cite law in support of the first request for judicial
notice. Thus, the Court denies the first request.  
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
Defendants submitted evidentiary objections as part of their
opposition. 
 
In granting or denying a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication, the court needs rule only on those objections to evidence
that it deems material to its disposition of the motion. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (q).)
 
After reviewing Defendants’ evidentiary objections, the
Court finds that they are not material to the disposition of the motion and
will not rule on them. 
 
Legal Standard
 
“[A] motion for summary judgment
shall be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a
judgment as a matter of law.” (Code of Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  The moving party bears the initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing no triable material fact
issues.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) 
If the moving party meets this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing
party to make a converse prima facie showing that a triable issue of
material fact exists. (Ibid.)  
 
A defendant’s motion for summary
judgment ‘necessarily includes a test of the sufficiency of the complaint.  Motions for summary judgment in such
situations have otherwise been allowed as being in legal effect motions for
judgment on the pleadings. Thus, if the reviewing court finds the complaint
fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action as a matter of
law, it need not reach the question whether plaintiff's opposition to the
summary judgment motion raises a triable issue of fact. (Hansra v. Superior
Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 630, 638.)
 
Negligence 
 
Defendants argue
collateral estoppel. They also argue they are immune from liability for
removing the Gamez children. Defendants further argue that they were not
negligent in the placement of the children for the following reasons: the
foster parents satisfied the guidelines for placement; the social workers can
place a dependent child in an approved resource family home; and the foster
parents were on notice of decedent’s medical condition and treatment.
Defendants also argue that they satisfied their mandatory duties. In addition,
Defendants argue that they did not cause J.G.’s injuries. 
 
Collateral Estoppel
 
Defendants argue
collateral estoppel bars the issue of improper removal of the Gamez children
because the dependency, or juvenile, court adjudicated the same issues on August
5, 2019. 
 
It is the remedies
available to the plaintiff in a forum of limited jurisdiction that determine
whether collateral estoppel bars a subsequent claim in a different forum. (See,
e.g. Cunningham v. United States
(Fed. Cir. 2014) 748 F.3d 1172, 1180.) Juvenile court protects abused or neglected children and
those at substantial risk and provides permanent, stable homes if those children
cannot be returned home within a prescribed period. (Sara M. v. Super. Ct.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 998, 1008.) Its role is not to award damages. 
 
Here, Plaintiffs
seek monetary damages. 
 
Thus, collateral
estoppel does not bar the issue of improper removal of the Gamez children.  
 
          Public Entity
and Public Employee Liability 
 
A public entity is not liable for an injury, except as otherwise
provided by statute. (Gov. Code, § 815, subd. (a).) Civil Code section
1714, which imposes a general duty of care on all persons, is an insufficient
statutory basis for imposing direct liability on public agencies. (Eastburn
v Regional Fire Protection Auth. (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175,
1180.) No negligence cause of action may be asserted directly against a
public entity, but under Government Code section 815.2, subdivision (a), vicarious
liability may be imposed on public entities for the “tortious acts and
omissions of their employees.” (See Comment to Gov. Code, § 815.2.) A
public employee is liable for any injury caused by act or omission “to the same
extent as a private person,” except as provided by statute. (Gov. Code, § 820,
subd. (a).) Public employees have an array of immunities, including the
immunity for discretionary acts (Gov. Code, § 820.2). 
 
Separately, Government Code section 815.6 contains a three-pronged
test for determining whether liability may be imposed on a public entity: (1)
an enactment must impose a mandatory, not discretionary, duty; (2) the
enactment must intend to protect against the kind of risk of injury suffered by
the party asserting section 815.6 as a basis for liability; and (3) breach of
the mandatory duty must be a proximate cause of the injury suffered. If the public entity establishes that
it exercised reasonable diligence to discharge the duty, it is not liable.
(Gov. Code, § 815.6.) Whether an enactment is
intended to impose a mandatory duty is a question of law for the court. (County of L. A. v. Super. Ct. (2002) 102
Cal.App.4th 627, 639.)
 
Plaintiffs allege
that Defendants failed to investigate or otherwise respond to the reported
instances of child abuse and/or neglect; Defendants failed to properly conduct
an assessment and develop a case plan; Defendants failed to conduct a basic
evaluation of risks to determine whether an emergency existed; and Defendants
failed to control the conduct of the father and the foster parents. (FAC, ¶¶ 56, 64, 65, 66.) Further, Plaintiffs allege
the following statutes and regulations create mandatory duties: Welfare and
Institutions Code section 328; Welfare and Institutions Code section 16501,
subdivision (d); Welfare and Institutions Code section 16501, subdivision (f);
Welfare and Institutions Code section 16501.1, subdivision (d); Welfare and
Institutions Code section 16504, subdivision (a); DSS Regulations 31-101,
31-105, 31-110, 31-115, 31-120, 31-125, 31-128, 31-201, 31-205, 31-206. (FAC, ¶¶ 56, 64, 65, 66.) Plaintiffs also allege that
as mandated reporters under Penal Code sections 11165.7(a)(15) and (18),
Defendants did not report suspected child abuse. 
 
The Court will first
address whether the statutes and regulations impose mandatory duties as opposed
to discretionary duties. In doing so, the Court finds instructive County of
L.A. v. Super. Ct., supra, 102 Cal.App.4th 627 and Becerra v. County of
Santa Cruz (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 1450. 
 
Welfare and
Institutions Code section 328, subdivision (a)(2) states, “The social worker
shall interview any child four years of age or older who is the subject of an
investigation to ascertain the child’s view of the home environment.” This
refers to the investigation to determine whether child welfare services should be offered
to the family and whether proceedings in the juvenile court should commence. (Welf.
& Inst. Code, § 328, subd. (a).) Thus, it does not apply to the purported
wrongdoings alleged here: the actual placement and monitoring and supervision
of the placement. 
 
Welfare and
Institutions Code section 16501, subdivision (f) states, “County welfare
departments shall respond to any report of imminent danger of a child
immediately.” Subdivision (d) states, “This chapter shall not be construed to
affect duties that are delegated to probation officers pursuant to Sections 601
and 654.” What constitutes “imminent” danger lies at the discretion of the
social worker. Thus, subdivision (f) imposes no mandatory duty. Separately,
subdivision (d) imposes no duty. 
 
Welfare and
Institutions Code section 16501.1, subdivision (d) discusses the requirements
of a case plan. This by itself does not impose a mandatory duty on the social
workers. 
 
Welfare and
Institutions Code section 16504, subdivision (a) states, “Any child reported to
the county child welfare services department
to be endangered by abuse, neglect, or exploitation shall be eligible for
initial intake and evaluation of risk services. Each county child welfare services department
shall maintain and operate a 24-hour response system. An immediate in-person
response shall be made by a county child welfare services department social worker in emergency
situations in accordance with regulations of the department. The person making
any initial response to a request for child welfare services shall consider
providing appropriate social services to maintain the child safely in his or her
own home. However, an in-person response is not required when the county child welfare services department,
based upon an evaluation of risk, determines that an in-person response is not
appropriate. An evaluation of risk includes collateral contacts, a review of
previous referrals, and other relevant information.” The first part of this
subdivision describes legislative goals, not mandatory duties. The latter part
is about the initial response, so it does not apply to the situation presented
in this case: the placement and monitoring and supervision of the placement.
Thus, the statute imposes no mandatory duties. 
 
DSS Regulation
31-101 states that the social worker responding to a referral shall be skilled
in emergency response. (FAC, ¶
59.) This is not a mandatory duty; rather, it is a legislative goal. 
 
DSS Regulation
31-105 states that a social worker shall immediately initiate and complete the
Emergency Response Protocol process to determine whether an in-person
investigation is required. (FAC, ¶
60.) Furthermore, the social worker shall record all available and appropriate
information on the Emergency Response Protocol form or an approved substitute.
(FAC, ¶ 60.) This describes the process for the
discretionary act of removing a child from a home. It does not impose a
mandatory duty. 
 
DSS Regulation
31-110 is about in-person investigations, which is part of the discretionary
act of removing a child from a home. It does not impose a mandatory duty. 
 
DSS Regulation
31-115 is about in-person immediate investigations, which is part of the
discretionary act of removing a child from a home. It does not impose a
mandatory duty. 
 
DSS Regulation
31-120 provides for in-person investigations within 10 calendar days, which is
part of the discretionary act of removing a child from a home. It does not
impose a mandatory duty. 
 
DSS Regulation
31-125 is about investigation requirements, which is part of the discretionary
act of removing a child from a home. It does not impose a mandatory duty. 
 
DSS Regulation
31-128 is about law enforcement assistance, which is part of the discretionary
act of removing a child from a home. It does not impose a mandatory duty. 
 
DSS Regulation
31-201 is about assessment and case planning, which is part of the process of
determining what a child needs for his or her welfare once the State of
California decides to intervene. It does not impose a mandatory duty. 
 
DSS Regulation
31-205 is about assessment documentation, which is part of the process of the
discretionary act of intervening for the child’s welfare. It does not impose a
mandatory duty. 
 
DSS Regulation
31-206 is about case plan documentation, which is part of the process of the
discretionary act of intervening for the child’s welfare. It does not impose a
mandatory duty. 
 
Under the Child Abuse and Neglect
Reporting Act, a mandated reporter shall make a report to an agency, specified
in Section 11165.9, whenever the mandated reporter, in the mandated reporter's
professional capacity or within the scope of the mandated reporter's
employment, has knowledge of or observes a child whom the mandated reporter
knows, or reasonably suspects has been the victim of child abuse or neglect. (Pen.
Code, § 11166.) But this is a discretionary act because the mandated reporter
must determine whether the child is a victim of child abuse or neglect. 
 
Thus, none of the statutes and
regulations Plaintiffs allege impose a mandatory duty.  To the extent that they are both mandatory
and discretionary in nature, Plaintiffs’ allegations are directed at how
Defendants exercised their discretion. 
This is insufficient to state a cause of action for negligence. (County
of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 627
(county and social worker are immune from liability for the discretionary acts
of the social worker in placing and supervising minor); Becerra v. County of
Santa Cruz (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 1450 (same).)  
 
Because the negligence theory was not
adequately pleaded, Defendants have no burden to show that Plaintiff’s
negligence claim cannot be established. 
The Court deems the motion for summary judgment to be a motion for
judgment on the pleadings. (Hansra v. Super. Ct. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th
630, 638-639.) Defendants therefore have no obligation to adduce evidence to
negate the negligence theory.  
 
Because this issue is dispositive, the
Court will not adjudicate Defendants’ causation arguments. 
 
Thus, the motion for judgment on the
pleadings is granted as to the negligence cause of action. 
 
Wrongful Death
 
“The elements of a cause of action for
wrongful death are a tort, such as negligence, and resulting death.” (Lopez
v. City of L.A. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 675, 685.) Plaintiffs
plead negligence as part of wrongful death. (FAC, ¶ 47.) 
 
As discussed above, because the
negligence theory was not adequately pleaded, the motion for judgment on the
pleadings is granted as to the wrongful death cause of action. 
 
Negligent
Supervision
 
Defendants do not separately or independently argue
negligent supervision. But considering the allegations, the Court finds that
opposing parties had adequate notice of the issues. (Folberg v. Clara G.R.
Kinney Co. (1980) 104 Cal.App.3d 136, 139-140.) 
 
Plaintiffs plead that Defendants negligently failed to
supervise their employees to prevent the type of violations of policy and
statutory laws and regulations that led to the injuries sustained by the minors
and the death of J.G. (FAC, ¶ 74.) As discussed above, none of the statutes and
regulations pleaded impose a mandatory duty. 
 
Thus, the motion for judgment on the pleadings is granted as
to the negligent supervision cause of action. 
 
Negligent Hiring
and Retention 
 
Defendants also do not separately or independently argue
negligent hiring and retention. But considering the allegations, the Court
finds that opposing parties had adequate notice of the issues. (Folberg v.
Clara G.R. Kinney Co., supra, 104 Cal.App.3d 136 at pgs. 139-140.) 
 
Plaintiffs plead that the County and DCFS knew of the
pattern to violate mandatory reporting laws. (FAC, ¶ 83.) As discussed above,
none of the statutes and regulations pleaded impose a mandatory duty.
 
Thus, the motion for judgment on the pleadings is granted as
to the negligent hiring and retention cause of action. 
 
Bane Act 
 
Defendants argue
that the Bane Act does not apply because its purpose is to stop hate crimes. 
 
The Bane Act authorizes suit against anyone who by threats,
intimidation, or coercion interferes with the exercise or enjoyment of rights
secured by the state or federal Constitutions or laws without regard to whether
the victim is a member of a protected class. (Civ. Code § 52.1.) To obtain
relief under Section 52.1, liability only requires interference or attempted
interference with the plaintiff’s legal rights by the requisite threats,
intimidation, or coercion. (Venegas v. County of Los Angeles (2004)
32 Cal.4th 820, 841-843.)
 
 
Plaintiffs’ complaint does not sufficiently
allege threats, intimidation, or coercion. 

 
Thus, the motion for judgment on the
pleadings is granted as to the Violation of Bane Act. 
 
Survival Action 
 
Defendants also do not separately or independently argue the
survival action. But considering the allegations, the Court finds that opposing
parties had adequate notice of the issues. (Folberg v. Clara G.R. Kinney Co.,
supra, 104 Cal.App.3d 136 at pgs. 139-140.) 
 
Plaintiffs plead, “As a proximate result of the conduct of
Defendants as alleged, decedent, JAMES, suffered intense physical and emotional
pain, anguish, distress, despair, and suffering all during the time of reports
of abuse and neglect were made to Defendants and up until the time of his
death.” As discussed above, the Court finds that liability is not sufficiently
alleged.  
 
Thus, the motion for judgment on the pleadings is granted as
to the survival action. 
 
Leave to Amend
 
Given that the Court addressed the allegations only, the
Court treats this summary judgment motion as a motion for judgment on the
pleadings. (Hansra v. Super. Ct. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 630, 647.) Thus,
the Court must decide if there is a reasonable possibility that the defects may
be cured by amendment. (Leek v. Cooper (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 399, 416.)

 
This matter was initially heard
on July 24, 2024, and this Court ruled as follows: “Judgment is stayed until
October 2, 2024. Plaintiff will be allowed to make further argument at that
time regarding leave to amend.” (M.O. 07/24/24.) On October 9, 2024, the Court
continued the hearing on this Motion once more. (M.O., 10/09/24.) 
At
this time, the Court determines that the interests of justice warrant leave to
amend. In Opposition, Plaintiffs’ Counsel cites numerous personal setbacks that
occurred in January and February 2024 which hindered Counsel’s ability to
conduct discovery, and properly respond to this Motion. Counsel also indicates
that discovery is ongoing. (See Myer Decl., ¶¶17-21.) In light of these
statements, it does not appear to the Court that Plaintiffs’ pleading is
settled. Given the liberality associated with granting leave to amend and the
policy of adjudicating cases on the merits, leave to amend is granted. 
Consequently,
Defendants’ Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED with 30 days leave
to amend. 
II.             
The County Cross-Defendants’ Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication against Cross-Complainant Gerardo Gamez’s
Cross-Complaint 
Cross-Defendants County of Los Angeles, Leticia Garcia,
Francine Jimenez, and Gabriela Alcala (collectively “County Defendants”) move
for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication, against Geraldo
Gamez’s cross-complaint. 
 
Given the amount of time that has elapsed since the filing
of this motion, the Court denies Cross-Complainant’s Gerardo Gamez’s request
for a continuance of the instant motion. 
 
Requests for Judicial Notice
 
Cross-Defendants’ Requests
 
Cross-Defendants requests judicial notice of the following:
(1) order authorizing the removal of minors K.G., A.G., and J.G. issued by Los
Angeles Superior Court Judge Rudolph Diaz on August 5, 2019; (2) minute order
dated August 12, 2019, Case No. 19CCJP05067A; (3) minute order dated August 30,
2019, Case No. 19CCJP05067A; (4) Chapters 31-300 through 31-400 of the
California Department of Social Services Child Welfare Services Manual; (5) California
Department of Social Services Resource Family Approval Written Directives; (6)
Order After Judicial Review dated November 22, 2021; (7) Order After Judicial
Review dated May 9, 2022. Defendant cites Evidence Code sections 451 and 452,
subdivision (d)(1).
 
The court takes judicial notice of the
existence of the documents identified in the first, second, third, sixth, and
seventh requests. (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) However, factual findings
in prior judicial orders, opinions, or decisions are not a proper subject of judicial
notice. (Kilroy v. State of Calif. (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 140,
148.) But the finding itself may be a proper subject of judicial notice if it
has a res judicata or collateral estoppel effect in a subsequent action. (Ibid.) Thus, the Court grants the findings in the documents identified
in the first, second, third, sixth, and seventh requests if they have a
collateral estoppel effect.  
 
The Court grants judicial notice of the fourth
and fifth requests according to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (b) and Mounger
v. Gates (1987) 193 Cal.App.3d 1248,1257. 
 
Separate Statement
 
The supporting papers shall include a separate statement
setting forth plainly and concisely all material facts that the moving party
contends are undisputed. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) Each of the
material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the supporting
evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) The failure to comply with
this requirement of a separate statement may in the court's discretion
constitute sufficient grounds for denying the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (b)(1).) 
 
 “Material facts” are facts that relate to the cause of
action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or affirmative defense that is the
subject of the motion and that could make a difference in the disposition of
the motion. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350 (a)(2).)  
 
Further, citation to the evidence in support of each
material fact must include reference to the exhibit, title, page, and line
numbers. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350 (d)(3).)  
 
The Court notes that Cross-Complainant does not reference
page or line numbers when citing some of the evidence. For example, for
disputed material fact number 19, Cross-Complainant states, “RFA initiated the
home assessment, however it was incomplete because they failed to property
assess the foster parents’ ability and desire to need the child’s specific
needs.” But Cross-Complainant does not tie this statement to any piece of evidence.
Instead, Cross-Complainant lists twelve pieces of evidence under the caption,
“Supporting Evidence.” 
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
Cross-Defendants submitted evidentiary objections as part
of their opposition. 
 
In granting or denying a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication, the court needs rule only on those objections to evidence
that it deems material to its disposition of the motion. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (q).) As discussed above, “material
facts” are facts that relate to the cause of action, claim for damages, issue
of duty, or affirmative defense that is the subject of the motion and that
could make a difference in the disposition of the motion. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1350 (a)(2).)  
 
After reviewing Cross-Defendants’ evidentiary objections,
the Court finds that they are not material to the disposition of the motion.
Hence, the Court will not rule on them. 
 
Legal Standard
 
The function of a motion for summary judgment or
adjudication is to allow the court to determine whether an opposing party can
show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and if not, to allow an order
of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843 (Atlantic Richfield).)
Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c) requires the trial judge
to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and “all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence” and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (Adler v.
Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) 
 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the moving
party must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an
essential element or to establish a defense. (Code Civ. Proc, § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).) A cause of action cannot be established if the undisputed facts
presented by defendant prove the contrary of plaintiff's allegations¿as a
matter of law. (Brantley v. Pisaro (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1597.) To
show a complete defense, the defendant must present admissible evidence of¿each
essential element¿of the defense upon which it bears the burden of proof at
trial.¿(Anderson v. Metalclad Insulation Corp.¿(1999) 72
Cal.App.4th 284, 289.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of
the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence
in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39
Cal.4th 384, 389.) Once the moving party has met that burden, the burden shifts
to the opposing party to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to that cause of action or a defense. (Sangster v. Paetkau
(1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 162.) To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Id. at pg. 166.) 
 
Discussion
 
Collateral Estoppel
 
Cross-Defendants argue that collateral estoppel bars the issue
of improper removal of the Gamez children because the dependency, or juvenile,
court adjudicated the same issues on August 5, 2019. 
 
It is the remedies
available to the plaintiff in a forum of limited jurisdiction that determine
whether collateral estoppel bars a subsequent claim in a different forum. (See,
e.g. Cunningham v. United States
(Fed. Cir. 2014) 748 F.3d 1172, 1180.) Juvenile court protects abused or neglected children and
those at substantial risk and provides permanent, stable homes if those
children cannot be returned home within a prescribed period. (Sara M. v.
Super. Ct. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 998, 1008.) Its role is not to award damages. 
 
Here, Cross-Complainant
seeks monetary damages. 
 
Thus, collateral
estoppel does not bar the issue of improper removal of the Gamez children. 
 
First and
Second Causes of Action: Violation of Civil Rights under 42 U.S.C. § 1983 and
Monell Liability
 
Cross-Defendants argue causation and
assert that it applies to Government Code section 815.2, not any other cause of
action. Yet Cross-Defendants move for summary judgment as to the entire cross-complaint.
Even though Cross-Defendants are unclear as to whether they are also moving for
summary judgment and adjudication as to the alleged violations of 42 U.S.C. §
1983, the Court will adjudicate Cross-Defendants’ causation arguments as it
applies to the two alleged violations of 42 U.S.C. § 1983. Cross-Defendants argue
that state law immunity applies, but state law immunity does not apply to 42 U.S.C.
§ 1983 actions brought in either state or federal court.¿(Martinez v. Calif.¿(1980)
444 U.S. 277, 284 n8.)
 
General tort principles of proximate cause apply to 42 U.S.C.
§ 1983 actions. (Martinez v. Calif., supra,
444 U.S. 277 at pg. 285.) 
 
As
framed by the pleadings, Cross-Defendants breached their duties to Cross-Complainants
and decedent by wrongfully removing decedent from the custody of his parents
and by placing and maintaining him in placements depriving him of essential
minimally adequate living conditions suitable for J.G.’s chronic asthma and
allergy to cats and dogs and/or violations of civil and personal rights.
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 42.) Further, Cross-Defendants refused to place decedent in
the care of other relatives who had no cats and dogs and were willing to take
in decedent. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 43.) As a direct and proximate result of
Cross-Defendants’ acts, decedent suffered injuries, including loss of his own
life and other damages. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 51.) As to the second 42 U.S.C. § 1983
cause of action, the gist of the allegations is the same. 
 
Cross-Defendants
argue that the actual and proximate cause of J.G.’s injuries was an asthma
attack that was not timely or properly treated, first by his father and later by
foster parents. Cross-Defendants do not attribute J.G.’s injuries to any
conduct by the county.   
 
The pleadings serve as the “outer measure of
materiality” in a summary judgment motion, and the motion may not be granted or
denied on issues not raised by the pleadings. (Laabs v. City of Victorville¿(2008)
163 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1258.) Here, Cross-Defendants do not directly address
Cross-Complainant’s causation allegations but assert their own theory about why
J.G. died. On this ground, the Court denies summary judgment and summary
adjudication. 
 
Further,
causation is ordinarily a question of fact which cannot be resolved by summary
judgment. (Kaney v. Custance (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 201, 212.) The issue
of causation may be decided as a question of law only if, under undisputed
facts, there is no room for a reasonable difference of opinion. (Ibid.) 
 
As
discussed above, there is a difference of opinion about why J.G. died. Thus, causation
is not an issue that can be resolved by summary judgment. 
 
Therefore,
summary judgment and summary adjudication as to the first and second causes of
action are DENIED.  
 
Fifth Cause of Action: Negligence 
 
The Court addresses the fifth cause of action of breach of duties
under special relationship, which is a type of negligence. 
 
A public entity is not liable for an injury, except as otherwise
provided by statute. (Gov. Code, § 815, subd. (a).) Civil Code section
1714, which imposes a general duty of care on all persons, is an insufficient
statutory basis for imposing direct liability on public agencies. (Eastburn
v Regional Fire Protection Auth. (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1180.) 
 
No negligence cause of action may be asserted directly against a
public entity, but under Government Code section 815.2, subdivision (a), vicarious
liability may be imposed on public entities for the “tortious acts and
omissions of their employees.” (See Comment to Gov. Code, § 815.2.) A
public employee is liable for any injury caused by act or omission “to the same
extent as a private person,” except as provided by statute. (Gov. Code, § 820,
subd. (a).) But public employees have an array of immunities, including the
immunity for discretionary acts. (Gov. Code, § 820.2). 
 
Cross-Complainants
allege that Cross-Defendants breached their duty of care to J.G. by failing and
neglecting to fulfill or perform their duties to control, care for, and protect
the health, safety, and well-being of J.G. while he was in foster care. (Cross-Compl.,
¶ 85.) As a result, J.G. lived with a cat and
dog despite his allergic reactions to them and his chronic asthma, which led to
the escalation of his asthma attack and his death. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 86.) His chronic asthma could have and would
have been discovered if Cross-Defendants had exercised due care, including
examining medical records, communicating with his family, adhering to the
county’s procedures and policies, conducting in-person interviews, and engaging
in other methods of supervising, caring, and overseeing dependent minors.
(Cross-Compl., ¶ 86.) 
 
Under in Becerra
v. County of Santa Cruz (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 1450, 1462, the determination
to place a child in a particular foster home is a discretionary act, immune
from liability according to Government Code section 820.2. Similarly, the
determination to intervene and discontinue a child’s placement is a
discretionary act, immune from liability. (Id. at pg. 1466.) However,
immunity does not extend to injuries inflicted by the execution of a County
policies or customs.. (See Alicia T. V. County of Los Angeles (1990) 222
Cal.App.3d 869, 881-882.) Here, the Cross-Complainant sufficiently alleges
throughout the Cross-Complaint that DCFS failed to conduct adequate safety and
risk assessments of foster parents, consistent with their prevalent custom and
practices. (See, e.g., Cross-Compl. ¶17.) 
 
Moreover, Plaintiff
presents evidence of the following: 
 
·       Leticia Garcia did not do anything to become
acquainted with what steps were necessary to treat J.G.’s asthma. (Nguyen
Decl., ¶7, Ex. 5, Leticia Garcia Deposition, p. 183:10-13.)
·       Leticia Garcia did not take any steps to make
sure that the foster parents were aware of what was needed to treat J.G.’s
asthma. (Id., p. 184:3-6.)
·       Leticia Garcia did not know that pets
triggered J.G.’s asthma. (Id., p. 184:7-12.)
·       Gabriela Alcala did not know J.G. had a
nebulizer and she did not have any conversations with anyone about a nebulizer.
(Nguyen Decl., ¶9, Ex. 7., Gabriela
Alcala Deposition, p. 112:10-13.) 
·       Gabriela Alcala did not check with the foster
parents to see if they would be willing to administer medication. (Id.,
p. 113:15-18.)
·       Gabriele Alcala did not train the foster
parents on how to use the nebulizer. (Id., p. 113:19-22.)
·       Gabriela Alcala did not know what triggered
J.G.’s asthma. (Id., p. 145:17-19.)
 
The Court determines
that this evidence is sufficient to raise a triable issue of material fact as
to the fifth cause of action for Breach of Duties under Special
Relationship.  
 
Accordingly, summary
adjudication as to the fifth cause of action is DENIED.  
 
Fourth Cause of Action: Breach of Mandatory Duties
 
Government Code section 815.6 contains a three-pronged test for
determining whether liability may be imposed on a public entity: (1) an
enactment must impose a mandatory, not discretionary, duty; (2) the enactment
must intend to protect against the kind of risk of injury suffered by the party
asserting section 815.6 as a basis for liability; and (3) breach of the
mandatory duty must be a proximate cause of the injury suffered. If the public entity establishes that
it exercised reasonable diligence to discharge the duty, it is not liable. (Gov.
Code, § 815.6.) Whether an enactment is
intended to impose a mandatory duty is a question of law for the court. (County of L. A. v. Super. Ct. (2002) 102
Cal.App.4th 627, 639.)
 
Cross-Complainant
alleges that the following statutes and regulations create mandatory duties: Welfare
and Institutions Code section 328; Welfare and Institutions Code section 16501,
subdivision (d); Welfare and Institutions Code section 16501, subdivision (f); Welfare
and Institutions Code section 16504, subdivision (a); DSS Regulations 31-101,
31-105, 31-110, 31-115, 31-120, 31-125, 31-135, 31-137, 31-201, 31-205, 31-210,
31-215, 31-225, 31-230, 31-310, 31-320, 31-330, 31-401, 31-405, 31-420, 31-445,
and 31-501. (Cross-Compl., ¶¶
71-72.) Cross-Complainants also allege that as mandated reporters under Penal
Code sections 11166, et seq., Cross-Defendants did not report suspected child
abuse. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 72.)
 
The Court will
address whether the statutes and regulations impose mandatory duties as opposed
to discretionary duties. In doing so, the Court finds instructive County of
L.A. v. Super. Ct., supra, 102 Cal.App.4th 627 and Becerra v. County of
Santa Cruz (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 1450. 
 
As it applies to the
instant action, Welfare and Institutions Code section 328 concerns whether
child welfare services should be offered to the family. Thus, it does not apply to the purported
wrongdoings alleged here: the actual placement and monitoring and supervision
of the placement. 
 
Welfare and Institutions
Code section 16501, subdivision (f) states, “County welfare departments shall
respond to any report of imminent danger of a child immediately.” Subdivision
(d) states, “This chapter shall not be construed to affect duties that are
delegated to probation officers pursuant to Sections 601 and 654.” What
constitutes “imminent” danger lies at the discretion of the social worker.
Thus, subdivision (f) imposes no mandatory duty. Separately, subdivision (d)
imposes no duty. 
 
Welfare and
Institutions Code section 16504, subdivision (a) states, “Any child reported to
the county child welfare services department
to be endangered by abuse, neglect, or exploitation shall be eligible for
initial intake and evaluation of risk services. Each county child welfare services department
shall maintain and operate a 24-hour response system. An immediate in-person
response shall be made by a county child welfare services department social worker in emergency
situations in accordance with regulations of the department. The person making any
initial response to a request for child welfare services shall consider
providing appropriate social services to maintain the child safely in his or
her own home. However, an in-person response is not required when the
county child welfare services department,
based upon an evaluation of risk, determines that an in-person response is not
appropriate. An evaluation of risk includes collateral contacts, a review of
previous referrals, and other relevant information.” The first part of this
subdivision describes legislative goals, not mandatory duties. The latter part is
about the initial response, so it does not apply to the situation presented in
this case: the placement and monitoring and supervision of the placement. Thus,
the statute imposes no mandatory duties. 
 
DSS Regulation
31-101 states that the social worker responding to a referral shall be skilled
in emergency response. (FAC, ¶ 59.)
This is not a mandatory duty; rather, it is a legislative goal. 
 
DSS Regulation
31-105 states that a social worker shall immediately initiate and complete the
Emergency Response Protocol process to determine whether an in-person
investigation is required. (FAC, ¶
60.) Furthermore, the social worker shall record all available and appropriate
information on the Emergency Response Protocol form or an approved substitute.
(FAC, ¶ 60.) This describes the process for the
discretionary act of removing a child from a home. It does not impose a
mandatory duty. 
 
DSS Regulation
31-110 is about in-person investigations, which is part of the discretionary
act of removing a child from a home. It does not impose a mandatory duty. 
 
DSS Regulation
31-115 is about in-person immediate investigations, which is part of the
discretionary act of removing a child from a home. It does not impose a
mandatory duty. 
 
DSS Regulation
31-120 requires in-person investigations within 10 calendar days, which is part
of the discretionary act of removing a child from a home. It does not impose a
mandatory duty. 
 
DSS Regulation
31-125 is about investigation requirements, which is part of the discretionary
act of removing a child from a home. It does not impose a mandatory duty. 
 
DSS Regulation
31-128 is about law enforcement assistance, which is part of the discretionary
act of removing a child from a home. It does not impose a mandatory duty. 
 
DSS Regulation
31-135 is about ensuring there is authority to remove a child from the home,
which is part of the discretionary act of removing a child from a home. It does
not impose a mandatory duty. But a part of DSS Regulation 31-135 is about
requiring documenting in the case record pre-placement preventive efforts, and
Cross-Complainants assert that Cross-Defendants violated it. This is a
mandatory, not discretionary duty, because it amounts only to obedience of
orders. (See Scott v. County of L.A. (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 125,
141-142.) 
 
DSS Regulation
31-137 sets forth guidelines for transitional care prior to placement. This
does not impose a mandatory duty.  
 
DSS Regulation
31-201 is about assessment and case planning, which is part of the process of
determining what a child needs for his or her welfare once the State of
California decides to intervene. It does not impose a mandatory duty. 
 
DSS Regulation
31-205 is about assessment documentation, which is part of the process of the
discretionary act of intervening for the child’s welfare. It does not impose a
mandatory duty. 
 
DSS Regulation 31-210 and 31-215 are about case plan time frames, and
Cross-Complainants allege Cross-Defendants violated the regulations by not
completing a case plan within 30 days of removal. This, too, is a mandatory
duty. 
 
DSS Regulation 31-225 and 31-230 are about case plan documentations.
While there are some parts of the two regulations that are discretionary, there
are also mandatory components. DSS Regulation 31-225.2 states, “The case plan
update shall be considered complete only if all of the elements specified in
Section 31-225 have been documented and the social worker’s supervisor has
signed and dated the case plan update.” DSS Regulation 31-230.1.11 states, “At
a minimum, the social worker shall complete a case plan update in conjunction
with each status review hearing,” and at least once every six months.
Cross-Complainant alleges that Cross-Defendants failed to update case plan
documentation. 
 
DSS Regulation 31-310 sets forth social worker responsibilities. Cross-Complainant
alleges that Cross-Defendants failed to monitor J.G.’s health and medical
condition and provide services appropriate to those needs; and failed to assist
his parents and foster parents to understand agency procedures and orders of
the court. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 72.) These are discretionary acts. 
 
DSS Regulation 31-320 and 31-330 sets forth social worker requirements
for contact with the child and out-of-home care provider, respectively.
Cross-Complainant alleges that Cross-Defendants failed to adequately conduct
face-to-face contacts with J.G. and the caregiver. (Cross-Compl., ¶ 72.) While
the regulations contain mandatory duties, Cross-Complainant’s allegations are
about discretionary duties. 
 
DSS Regulation 31-401 and 31-445 are about requirements for placement,
including with extended family members. Cross-Complainant alleges that
Cross-Defendants violated those regulations by placing J.G. in inadequately
trained foster home incapable of meeting his needs and not fulfilling social
worker responsibilities for placement. Although the regulations set forth
mandatory duties, Cross-Complainants allegations are about discretionary
duties. 
 
DSS Regulation 31-405 sets forth guidelines for social worker
responsibilities for placement. They do not impose mandatory duties. Further,
Cross-Complainant merely alleges that Cross-Defendants failed to fulfill the
social worker responsibilities for placement and does not allege breach of any
mandatory duty. 
 
DSS Regulation 31-420 sets forth foster care placement guidelines. These
are discretionary and do not impose a mandatory duty. Further,
Cross-Complainant does not allege any mandatory duty was breached. 
 
DSS Regulation 31-501 sets forth child abuse and neglect reporting
requirements. These are discretionary, not mandatory, duties because there
needs to be a determination of what is child abuse and neglect. 
 
Under the Child Abuse and Neglect
Reporting Act, a mandated reporter shall make a report to an agency, specified
in Section 11165.9, whenever the mandated reporter, in the mandated reporter's
professional capacity or within the scope of the mandated reporter's
employment, has knowledge of or observes a child whom the mandated reporter knows,
or reasonably suspects has been the victim of child abuse or neglect. (Pen. Code,
§ 11166.) But this is a discretionary act because the mandated reporter must
determine whether the child is a victim of child abuse or neglect. 
 
Next, the Court will consider
Cross-Defendants’ arguments. 
 
Cross-Defendants argue that they
satisfied their mandatory duties. But Cross-Defendants do not argue that they
satisfied their mandatory duties under DSS Regulations 31-135, 31-210, 31-215,
31-225, and 31-230.  Thus, the Court
determines that the fourth cause of action in the Cross-Complaint is adequately
pleaded, and Cross-Defendants have not met their burden to show that there are no
triable issues of material fact as to breach of mandatory duties.
 
The motion for summary adjudication as
to the fourth cause of action for Breach of Mandatory Duties is DENIED.  
 
Third Cause of Action: Wrongful Death
 
The elements of a cause of action for
wrongful death are a tort and resulting death.” (Lopez v. City of L.A.
(2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 675, 685.) Cross-Complainants plead negligence to
support the wrongful death claim. 
 
Given the Court’s analysis above,
summary adjudication as to the third cause of action for wrongful death is
DENIED.  
 
Sixth Cause of
Action: Survival Action 
 
Cross-Defendants also do not separately or independently
argue the survival action. But considering the allegations, the Court finds
that opposing parties had adequate notice of the issues. (Folberg v. Clara
G.R. Kinney Co., supra, 104 Cal.App.3d 136 at pgs. 139-140.) 
 
Because the Court denied summary adjudication as to the
first, fourth and fifth causes of action, summary adjudication as to the
survival action is DENIED.  