  Case Number:  24TRCV01282    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Wednesday, September 25, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   24TRCV01282
CASE NAME:                        Hadiza Jimada v. UHS of Delaware, Inc., et al. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants UHS of Delaware,
Inc. and Del Amo Hospital, Inc.
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Hadiza Jimada
TRIAL DATE:                        Not set. 
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion to Compel Arbitration
OPPOSITION:                        07 August 2024
REPLY:                                  14
August 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendants’ motion to compel Plaintiff’s
individual PAGA claims to arbitration is granted. The action is stayed as to
the representative PAGA claims pending arbitration.  The Court sets an OSC Re: Status of
Arbitration for September 25, 2025, at 8:30 a.m.  Defendants to give notice.

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On April 15, 2024,
Hadiza Jimada (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint under the Private Attorneys
General Act (“PAGA”) against UHS Delaware, Inc.; Del Amo Hospital, Inc.; Del
Amo Behavioral Health System; Del Amo Behavioral Health System of California;
and Does 1 to 100. 
Defendants UHS of
Delaware, Inc. and Del Amo Hospital, Inc. (collectively “Defendants”) move to
compel Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims to arbitration. Plaintiff opposes the
Motion. The matter is now before the court. 
motion to
compel arbitration
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
“California law reflects a strong
public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive
method for resolving disputes.¿ To further that policy, Code of Civil
Procedure, section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration
agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.¿ Those statutory
exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to arbitration; (2) grounds
exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3) pending litigation with a
third party creates the possibility of conflicting rulings on common factual or
legal¿ issues.”¿ (CCP, § 1281.2; Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate
Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967.)¿ Similarly, public policy under
federal law favors arbitration and the fundamental principle that arbitration
is a matter of contract and that courts must place arbitration agreements on an
equal footing with other contracts and enforce them according to their terms.¿
(AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
In deciding a motion or petition
to compel arbitration, trial courts must first decide whether an enforceable
arbitration agreement exists between the parties and then determine whether the
claims are covered within the scope of the agreement.¿(Omar v. Ralphs
Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)¿ The opposing party has the
burden to establish any defense to enforcement.¿ (Gatton v. T-Mobile USA,
Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 571, 579 [“The petitioner ... bears the burden
of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement and the opposing
party, plaintiffs here, bears the burden of proving any fact necessary to its
defense.”].)¿ 
 
II.        Evidentiary Objections
 
Plaintiff objects to the
Declaration of Curt Shander on the basis that the declaration lacks foundation
and personal knowledge. The court overrules Objections Nos. 1 to 13 on the
basis that Shander as the Assistant Director of Recruitment Operations for
Defendants has personal knowledge about Defendants’ security procedures and the
steps an employee must undertake to affix their electronic signature to a
document. (CCP, § 1633.9.)
 
As to Plaintiff’s Objections Nos.
1 to 5 to the Declaration of Kim Minix, Minix was the Director of Human
Resources for Defendants and has personal knowledge about the onboarding
documents Plaintiff was required to sign as an employee of Defendants.  Therefore, the objections are also overruled. 
 
III.      Request for Judicial Notice
 
Defendants
request judicial notice of the following: 
 
1)     Complaint
filed on April 15, 2024, by Plaintiff Hadiza Jimada in the Los Angeles Superior
Court, Case No. 24TRCV01282.
 
Defendants’
request for judicial notice is granted. 
 
IV.       Discussion
 
Defendants
move to compel Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claims to arbitration and stay the
representative PAGA action pending arbitration completion. 
 
 
 
 
A.        Existence of an Agreement to Arbitrate 
 
“The
petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement by the preponderance of the evidence, and a party opposing the
petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the evidence any
fact necessary to its defense. In these summary proceedings, the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s
discretion, to reach a final determination. No jury trial is available for a
petition to compel arbitration.” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 972 [Citations Omitted].)¿ 
Defendants
assert that as part of the onboarding process, Plaintiff reviewed and executed
an arbitration agreement entitled Alternative Resolution for Conflicts
(“ARC”) Agreement (the “ARC”). (Minix Decl., ¶ 5; Shaner Decl., ¶¶ 9, 10,
Ex. A, B.) The ARC states in pertinent part:
 
            1. How This Agreement Applies 
 
This Agreement is governed by
the Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. § 1 et seq. and evidences a transaction
involving commerce. Except as it otherwise provides, this Agreement applies to
any past, present or future dispute arising out of or related to Employee's
application for employment, employment and/or termination of employment with
DEL AMO HOSPITAL INC or one of its affiliates, subsidiaries or parent companies
("Company") and survives after the employment relationship
terminates. . . .
 
Except as it otherwise
provides, this Agreement is intended to apply to the resolution of disputes
that otherwise would be resolved in a court of law or before a forum other than
arbitration. This Agreement requires all such disputes to be resolved only by
an arbitrator through final and binding arbitration and not by way of court or
jury trial. Such disputes include without limitation disputes arising out of or
relating to interpretation or application of this Agreement.
 
Except as it otherwise
provides, this Agreement also applies, without limitation, to disputes
regarding the employment relationship, compensation, breaks and rest periods .
. and state statutes, if any, addressing the same or similar subject matters,
and all other state statutory and common law claims.
 
(Shaner
Decl., Ex. B, § 1.) 
 
The ARC also contains a
PAGA-specific provision which states: 
 
(c) There will be no right or authority for any dispute to be
brought, heard or arbitrated as a private attorney general representative
action ("Private Attorney General Waiver"). The Private Attorney
General Waiver does not apply to any claim an Employee brings in arbitration as
a private attorney general solely on the Employee’s own behalf and not on
behalf of or regarding others. The Private Attorney General Waiver shall be
severable from this Agreement in any case in which (1) the dispute is filed as
a private attorney general action and (2) a civil court of competent
jurisdiction finds the Private Attorney General Waiver is unenforceable. In
such instances, the private attorney general action must be litigated in a
civil court of competent jurisdiction.
 
(Shaner Decl., Ex. B, § 6(c).) 
 
Defendants outline the
electronic signature process, unique password requirement, and authentication
of Plaintiff’s electronic signature to show that Plaintiff agreed to the terms
of the ARC on March 18, 2021, at 2:08 pm. (Shaner Decl., ¶¶ 7-11, Ex. A; Minix
Decl., ¶ 6.) 
 
Furthermore, Defendants present
evidence that the ARC contained an opt-out provision that gave the employee 30
days to submit a form to opt-out of arbitration, including the website where
the form can be accessed. (Shaner Decl., Ex. B, § 9.) 
 
            B.        Challenge to Authenticity of ARC
 
Plaintiff challenges
the authenticity of the ARC because Curt Shander and Kim Minix do not have
personal knowledge of the facts and circumstances pertaining to Plaintiff’s
signing of the ARC. However, the authenticity
of an arbitration agreement is not an initial consideration of the court until it
is challenged by the opposing party. 
 
“For
purposes of a petition to compel arbitration, it is not necessary to follow the
normal procedures of document authentication. ‘[T]he court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists....’ (§ 1281.2) The
statute does not require the petitioner to introduce the agreement into
evidence. A plain reading of the statute indicates that as a preliminary matter
the court is only required to make a finding of the agreement's existence, not
an evidentiary determination of its validity.”
 
(Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88
Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.) 
 
“If the moving party meets its initial prima facie burden and
the opposing party disputes the agreement, then in the second step, the
opposing party bears the burden of producing evidence to challenge the
authenticity of the agreement.” (Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th
158, 165.) 
 
Plaintiff
offers no evidence to show that she did not sign the ARC. Plaintiff asserts she
was told that they had to sign all onboarding documents, but that fact alone
does not make the ARC invalid. (See Armendariz v. Foundation Health
Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 110 [mandatory arbitration
as a condition of employment is permissible so long as the arbitration does not
require the employee to bear any type of expense the employee would not be
required to bear if the employee were to bring the action in court].) 
 
Furthermore,
while Plaintiff states that she was “provided only with only a limited amount
of time to look through had fille the onboarding documents,” Plaintiff does not
state that she was prevented from reading the documents or obtaining a copy of
the signed documents. Plaintiff also does not state that she was denied the
opportunity to request more time to review the documents, consult with an attorney,
or that she had questions about the documents that the Defendants’ agents
refused to answer. Plaintiff’s failure to thoroughly read the documents she
clicked through does not exempt her from being bound by the ARC. “[A] person
with capacity of reading and understanding an instrument signs it, he may not,
in the absence of fraud, imposition or excusable neglect, avoid its terms on
the ground he failed to read it before signing it.” (Bauer v. Jackson
(1971) 15 Cal.App.3d 358, 370.) Plaintiff had the capacity to enter a contract
and any failure to read or learn the terms of the ARC due to her own actions is
insufficient to excuse Plaintiff from being bound by its terms. 
 
Second,
Plaintiff asserts that Defendants failed to show that the electronic signature
Plaintiff’s signature or the act of Plaintiff. The court disagrees. The
Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act provides that
electronic signatures are valid. (15 U.S.C. § 7000(a).) Similarly, the Uniform
Electronic Transactions Act provides that an electronic signature has the same
legal effect as a handwritten signature and the legal effect of an electronic
signature may not be denied simply because of its electronic form. (CCP., §§
1633.1, 1633.7.) Defendants have showed the electronic signature was the
act of Plaintiff by providing evidence of the security precautions needed to
sign the ARC—here the unique user password, personal email, and audit trail
that are attributable only to the Plaintiff. (See Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto
Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 843; Espejo v. Southern
California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1062; see
also CCP, § 1633.9.) 
 
Based on
the above, Plaintiff fails to show her electronic signature on the ARC is
invalid. 
 
            C.        The ARC is Not Unconscionable 
 
Plaintiff
asserts the ARC is unconscionable. “The burden of proving unconscionability
rests upon the party asserting it.” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th
111, 126.) A showing of unconscionability requires procedural and substantive
unconscionability. Procedural unconscionability asks whether there is
oppression from unequal bargaining power or surprise from buried terms.¿¿(Armendariz,
supra,  24 Cal.4th at p.
114.) Substantive unconscionability asks whether there are overly harsh,
one-sided terms.¿(Ibid.) Both are required to be proven to find
unconscionability.¿However, there is a sliding scale; if an agreement is
particularly substantively unconscionable, the petitioner need not show a large
amount of procedural unconscionability, and vice versa. (Ibid.) 
                        
                        i.          Procedural Unconscionability 
 
Plaintiff
argues that the ARC is procedurally unconscionable because Plaintiff was not
aware of the ARC’s existence as the documents were part of the onboarding
process. As stated above, Plaintiff presents no evidence that Defendants hid or
misrepresented the ARC or prevented Plaintiff from reading the ARC. Moreover,
Defendants are “under no obligation to highlight the arbitration clause of its
contract” or “specifically call the clause to [Plaintiff’s] attention.” (Sanchez
v. Valencia Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 914 [Noting that any
such law would be preempted by the FAA].) Furthermore, Section 9 of the ARC
provided Plaintiff with instructions on how to opt-out of the ARC. The fact
that Plaintiff did not read the ARC does not mean that the ARC is procedurally
unconscionable. 
Plaintiff
further asserts that the failure to attach arbitration rules to the ARC makes
the ARC procedurally unconscionable, but courts have repeatedly held that this
is insufficient to show an arbitration agreement is procedurally
unconscionable. (See Peng v. First Republic Bank (2013) 219 Cal. App.
4th 1462, 1472 [“[W]e find the failure to attach the [arbitration] rules,
standing alone, is insufficient grounds to support a finding of procedural
unconscionability.”]; Bigler v. Harker School (2013) 213 Cal. App. 4th
727, 737 [failure to attach incorporated arbitration rules “is of minor
significance” to procedural unconscionability]; Lane v. Francis Capital
Mgmt. LLC (2014) 224 Cal. App. 4th 676, 691 (2014) [holding the employer’s
“failure to attach a copy of the AAA rules did not render the agreement
procedurally unconscionable”].) 
 
Therefore,
there is little to no showing of procedural unconscionability. 
 
                        ii.         Substantive Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff asserts the ARC is substantively unconscionable because
it transcends the Parties’ employment relationship as it extends to “all other
state statutory and common law claims.” (Shaner Decl., Ex. B, § 1.)
However, the ARC states that it applies to “all other
state statutory and common law claims” that arose out of or are related to the
“Employee's application for employment, employment and/or
termination of employment.” (Id.) 
 
Plaintiff
offers no evidence and cites no case law supporting the interpretation that the
ARC extends beyond the employment relationship. While Defendants acknowledge
that the ARC applies to claims that an employee is likely to bring against an
employer, such as wage and hour claims, Plaintiff fails to show that the ARC
does not require arbitration for claims only an employer will likely bring
against an employee. Thus, Plaintiff fails to show that there is a lack of
mutuality or substantive unconscionability. 
 
Based
on the above, the court finds that Plaintiff fails to show that the ARC is
unconscionable. 
 
            D.        Plaintiff Fails to Show that the ARC Contains a Wholesale
PAGA Waiver
 
Plaintiff
asserts the ARC contains a wholesale waiver of the right to bring a PAGA
action. However, the language of the PAGA provision does not support this
proposition as the ARC expressly excludes arbitration of representative PAGA
actions: 
 
There will be no right or authority for any dispute to be
brought, heard or arbitrated as a private attorney general representative
action ("Private Attorney General Waiver"). 
 
(Shaner Decl., Ex. B, § 6(c).) Furthermore, the ARC
does require arbitration of individual PAGA claims: 
 
The Private Attorney General Waiver does not apply to any
claim an Employee brings in arbitration as a private attorney general solely on
the Employee’s own behalf and not on behalf of or regarding others. 
 
(Id.) 
 
California law holds that PAGA claims are severable from
their individual and 
representative components. In Balderas v. Fresh Start
Harvesting, Inc. (2024) 101 Cal. App. 5th 533, the Court of Appeal for the
Second District found that even if an employee does not bring an individual
PAGA action, the employee retains standing to bring a representative PAGA
action. “[W]e hold that an employee who does not bring an individual claim
against her employer may nevertheless bring a PAGA action for herself and other
employees of the company.” (Ibid.) Therefore, there is no merit to
Plaintiff’s assertion that the severability clause in the PAGA provision of the
ARC is invalid and would not sever an invalid provision of the PAGA provision. 
 
The express terms of the ARC and case law support the finding
that the ARC only applies to representative PAGA claims and is not a wholesale
invalid PAGA waiver. Therefore, the ARC is valid and the Plaintiff’s individual
PAGA claims can be compelled to arbitration. 
 
            F.        Plaintiff Fails to Show that A Stay is
Not Necessary
 
Plaintiff asserts that even if her individual PAGA claims are
compelled to arbitration, she should be able to proceed in court without a
stay. The question of whether Plaintiff is an aggrieved employee who has
suffered Lab. Code violations (§ 2699(c)) and has standing to pursue a PAGA
claim is a question that will be answered in arbitration due to the terms of
the ARC. If the arbitrator determines that Plaintiff is not an aggrieved
employee, then Plaintiff has no standing to pursue a representative PAGA
action. (Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc.
(2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1123-1124.) Therefore, a stay of the representative
PAGA action is necessary. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants’ motion to compel Plaintiff’s
individual PAGA claims to arbitration is granted. The 
action is stayed as to the representative
PAGA claims pending arbitration. The Court sets an 
OSC Re: Status of Arbitration for
September 25, 2025, at 8:30 a.m.  Defendants to give notice.
 