 Case Number:  23PSCV02869    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
Defendant
Hyundai Motor America’s (“Defendant”) MOTION TO COMPEL BINDING ARBITRATION is DENIED
for lack of mutual assent.     
 
Background
 
This is a
lemon law case. 
 
On September
18, 2023, Plaintiff SARA PINEDA filed suit against Defendant for (1) Violation
of the Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty.
 
On November
6, 2023, Defendant filed the instant motion.
 
On February
29, 2024, Plaintiff filed her opposition.
 
On March 6,
2024, Defendant filed its Reply. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
Defendant
brings forth the motion pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section
1281 et seq. (Motion p. 1.) 
 
A petition to
compel arbitration must allege both (1) a “written agreement to arbitrate” the
controversy, and (2) that a party to that agreement “refuses to arbitrate” the
controversy. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) Once this is done, the burden shifts
to the opposing party to demonstrate the falsity of the purported agreement. (Condee
v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218–219.) In ruling
on a motion to compel arbitration, the court must first determine whether the
parties actually agreed to arbitrate the dispute, and general principles of
California contract law help guide the court in making this determination.
(Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534,
541.) A petition to compel arbitration is a suit in equity to compel specific
performance of a contract. (Frog Creek Partners, LLC. v. Vance Brown, Inc.
(2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 515, 532.) 
 
Discussion
 
The issue
presented is whether an arbitration provision found in the Owner’s Handbook
& Warranty Information (“Handbook”) located in the glovebox of
the vehicle should be enforced.[1]
 
 
As clearly established by Defendant’s citations, the
rules governing contract law guide motions to compel arbitration. (See e.g., Motion p. 3, quoting AT&T
Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339, emphasis added
[“fundamental principle that arbitration is a matter of contract.”]; see
Motion p. 5:23-26, quoting (9 U.S.C. § 2) [The FAA applies to an arbitration
agreement that is “in a contract.”]; Motion 6:5-6 [“The parties
contractually agreed that the FAA would govern this agreement…”]; Motion p.
7:6-7, quoting Turtle Ridge Media Group, Inc. v. Pacific Bell Directory
(2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 828, 832, emphasis added [“States are obligated ‘to
treat arbitration agreements the same as other types of contracts….’”];
Motion p. 7:16-18, quoting Comedy Club, Inc. v. Improv W. Assocs., 553
F.3d 1277, 1284 (9th Cir. 2009) (internal quotation marks omitted) [“[W]here
the contract contains an arbitration clause, there is a presumption of
arbitrability.”]; Motion p. 9:22-25, quoting Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020)
53 Cal.App.5th 486, 496, emphasis added [“‘The fundamental point is that “a
party is not entitled to make use of [a contract containing an arbitration
clause] as long as it worked to [his or] her advantage, then attempt to
avoid its application in defining the forum in which [his or] her dispute ...
should be resolved.’”]; Motion p. 10:15-18, citing Metalclad Corp. v.
Ventana Environmental Organizational Partnership (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th
1705, 1714, emphasis added [“Plaintiff’s Claims are necessarily inherently
inseparable from the “underlying contract obligations”].) 
 
Turning to contract principles, in a
bilateral contract, the promisor and promisee exchange promises, whereby the
promises represent binding legal obligations. (Larwin-Southern California,
Inc. v. JGB Investment Co. (1979) 101 Cal.App.3d 626, 637.) This
requirement of binding legal obligations is generally referred to as the
doctrine of mutuality of obligation. As articulated by the California Supreme
Court in Mattei v. Hopper (1958) 51 Cal.2d 119, “the contract to bind either party, both must have assumed some legal
obligations . . . Or, if one of the promises leaves a party free to perform or
to withdraw from the agreement at his own unrestricted pleasure, the promise is
deemed illusory, and it provides no consideration.” (Id. at p.
122.) “If there is no evidence establishing a
manifestation of assent to the ‘same thing’ by both parties, then there is no
mutual consent to contract and no contract formation.” (Opp. p. 2, quoting Bowers
v. Raymond J. Lucia Companies, Inc. (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 724, 733.)
Effectively, to assent to the terms of the agreement, a party must be aware of
the contractual provisions she is assenting to. (See Opp. p. 2, Windsor
Mills, Inc. v. Collins & Aikman Corp. (1972) 25 Cal.App.3d 987, 993
[“Hence, an offeree, regardless of apparent manifestation of his consent, is not bound by inconspicuous
contractual provisions of which he was unaware, contained in a document whose
contractual nature is not obvious.”], emphasis added.) 
 
Here, the
Handbook is not a contract because, (i) it sets forth no exchange of promises;
(ii) does not identify the parties; (iii) does not bear signatures; and (iv)
does not set forth the good/vehicle at issue, amongst other requirements. To the extent there is mutual
assent, that is likely found within the sales contract entered
into on December 28, 2021, wherein Plaintiff bought a 2020 Hyundai Elantra for
a total price of approximately $36,495.68 from Patriot Hyundai of El Monte, which
Defendant has not provided as an exhibit. 
 
In addition
to relying upon contract principles to argue that the arbitration provision
found in the Handbook doesn’t apply, Plaintiff relies upon Norcia v. Samsung
Telecommunications Am. LLC, 845 F.3d 1279 (9th Cir. 2017). 
 
In Norcia,
the plaintiff purchased a Samsung phone that came with a receipt which
provided the order location, the plaintiff’s
mobile number, the product identification number, and the contract end date. (Id.
at p. 1282.) The receipt also stated that the plaintiff is agreeing to the
Customer Agreement, but the “Customer Agreement did not reference Samsung or
any other party. Norcia signed the Customer Agreement, and Verizon Wireless
emailed him a copy.”  (Ibid.)
After signing the Customer Agreement and after the employee helped the employee
transfer his contacts, the plaintiff took the box and contents home to unpack
the remainder. The box contained a brochure, one section dedicated the express
warranty that contained an arbitration provision. (Ibid.) After filing a
class complaint alleging misrepresentation about storage capacity, etc.,
Samsung moved to compel arbitration. (Id. at pp. 1282-1283.) In
affirming the trial court’s ruling to deny the motion, the Ninth Circuit
reasoned “There is no dispute that [plaintiff] did not expressly assent to any
agreement in the brochure. Nor did [plaintiff] sign the
brochure or otherwise act in a manner that would show ‘his intent to use his
silence, or failure to opt out, as a means of accepting the arbitration
agreement.” (Id. at pp. 1285-1286.) 
 
Similarly, here, the sales
contract can be analogized to the receipt and the brochure within the box to
the Handbook within the car. Neither employee—where the Samsung employee or the
Hyundai salesperson—informed the purchaser (whether Norcia or Pineda) that the
warranty is found within a separate writing. Accordingly, Defendant has
not met its burden to establish that Plaintiff intended to assent to the
Handbook terms.[2]

 
Thus, echoing the court in Norcia, Plaintiff was not informed
about the Handbook upon signing the sales contract, Plaintiff did not receive
the Handbook upon signing the sales contract, Plaintiff did not sign the
Handbook, nor did Plaintiff otherwise act in a manner that would show her
“intent to use [her] silence, or failure to opt out, as a means of accepting
arbitration.” (Ibid.) 
 
To the extent that Defendant argues that Norcia is inapposite
because there the plaintiff there did not bring a warranty claim, the
argument’s applicability is unclear. While the Norcia court did note
that the “Norcia's complaint involves a non-warranty dispute. Thus, our
analysis is governed by contract law—not warranty law,” (Id. at p.
1284), it is unclear as to how the two—contract law and warranty
law—impart different rules. After all, as set out in CACI jury instruction 3201
and Civil Code
Section 1793.2(d)(2), actions brought under the SBA for alleged
breaches of an express warranties require a
defendant's giving an express (written) warranty covering the vehicle and a
defect (or defects) in the vehicle. In turn, express warranties are
contractual nature. (See American Suzuki Motor Corp. v. Superior
Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1291, 1295.) And as a lease is a contract, then
that means that Plaintiffs’ cause of action breach of express warranties
directly derives from the contract, which consequently requires contract
interpretation to determine its applicability, validity, and scope. 
 
To the extent that Defendant avers Plaintiff is
estopped because her claims fundamentally rest on the warranty (Civil Code
section 1589), the court disagrees that the exception applies. (Plaintiff’s opposition does not
address estoppel.) As Plaintiff relies upon Norcia, the court turns to a
section of the opinion that addresses estoppel: 
 
An offeree's silence may also be treated as consent to
a contract when the party retains the benefit offered. See Golden Eagle, 20
Cal.App.4th at 1386, 25 Cal.Rptr.2d 242; see also Cal. Civ. Code § 1589 (“A voluntary
acceptance of the benefit of a transaction is equivalent to a consent to all
the obligations arising from it, so far as the facts are known, or ought to
be known, to the person accepting.”). In Golden Eagle, a couple received a renewal
certificate from their insurance company, and retained the benefit of the
renewed insurance policy without paying the premium. 20 Cal.App.4th
at 1386, 25 Cal.Rptr.2d 242. The court held that in light of the existing
relationship between the couple and the insurance company, the couple's
retention of the renewal certification was “sufficient evidence of acceptance
of the renewal policy” under California law. (Id. at p. 1285, emphasis added.)

 
In Golden Eagle,
supra, the undisputed facts more specifically were that the insured
“received a written notification from the [insurance company], informing
them they were being ‘provid[ed] continuous insurance coverage.’ A bill for
a deposit toward the premium for the renewal policy was enclosed. [The
insured] understood from these documents the policy had been renewed
and he was being billed for the new period of coverage. …. We also note [the insurance
company’s] offer did not come from “out of the blue.” There was an
existing relationship between [the insurance company] and the [the
insured]. The [insured] knew the mobile home park was insured by [the
insurance company].” (Golden Eagle, 20 Cal.App.4th at p. 1386, emphasis
added and underline added.) Accordingly,
based on (1) the written notification, (2) an understanding
of the written document(s), and (3) the parties’ existing relationship, the
appellate court determined that the totality of the facts was sufficient evidence of acceptance of the renewal
policy. (Id. at p. 1387.) 
 
Here, however, the arbitration agreement
came “out of the blue.” There is no indication that Plaintiff knew of or
understand that she would be bound to an arbitration agreement. To treat her
silence, without the requisite showings above, would require this court to
rewrite the principles that have long governed contracts jurisprudence,
which this court will not and cannot do. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion DENIED.  
 
 


