 Case Number:  23PSCV00764    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)  
Defendant’s DEMURRER TO FAC is SUSTAINED without leave to
amend because Plaintiff has failed to plead particular facts as to (i)
ratification/authorization by a corporate director, officer, or managing agent
and (ii) understaffing. 
 
(2)  
Defendant’s MTS is GRANTED without leave to amend. 
 
Background
 
This is
an alleged elder abuse case/dependent adult case. Plaintiff DANIEL E. HENDRIX, by and through
Vanessa Toloza, his Guardian Ad Litem alleges the following against Defendants
EMANATE HEALTH QUEEN OF THE VALLEY HOSPITAL (the “Hospital”); EMANATE HEALTH
MEDICAL CENTER: On January 4, 2022, Plaintiff, who is morbidly obese and
incontinent of bowel and bladder and required a minimum of two persons to turn
him (FAC ¶15),  presented to the Hospital
for admission to fix his preexisting ventriculoperitoneal shunt. There were
complications with the procedure, requiring Plaintiff’s one month stay at the
Hospital. By the time of Plaintiff’s discharge, he developed a full thickness
Stage III or IV sacrococcygeal pressure ulcer.
 
On March 14, 2023,
Plaintiff filed suit for:
 
1.    
Negligence/Professional
Medical Negligence
2.    
Elder
Abuse/Willful Misconduct.
 
On November 3, 2023,
Defendant filed its demurrer to the original complaint, which the court
sustained with leave to amend on 12/13/23. (Plaintiff did not file an
opposition to the demurrer.) 
On January 11, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a FAC.
 
On February 6, 2024,
Defendant filed the instant demurrer and MTS.
 
On February 29, 2024,
Plaintiff filed an opposition to both. 
 
On March 5, 2024,
Defendant filed a consolidated reply. 
 
Discussion
 
The issues presented are
whether Plaintiff has alleged sufficient facts to demonstrate authorization or
ratification by the facility for the claimed elder abuse and/or, in the
alternative, whether the understaffing allegations are sufficient to
demonstrate authorization/ratification.[1]

 
1. Whether a Managing Agent Authorized
or Ratified the Conduct[2]
 
Previously, the court
noted that Plaintiff’s reliance on Robert Curry, Administrator, and Kathy Van
Allen, Director of Nursing, was insufficient assert ratification/authorization
because there was no indication that they were managing agents.[3]

 
The court finds the
allegations again insufficient. 
 
In its FAC, Plaintiff
cites White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 576-577 wherein the
California Supreme Court provided a definition of what constitutes a “managing
agent.” (FAC p. 21.)[4]
 
The Legislature intended that
principal liability for punitive damages not depend on employees' managerial
level, but on the extent to which they exercise substantial discretionary
authority over decisions that ultimately determine corporate
policy. Thus, supervisors who have broad discretionary powers and exercise
substantial discretionary authority in the corporation could be managing
agents. Conversely, supervisors who have no discretionary authority
over decisions that ultimately determine corporate policy would not be
considered managing agents even though they may have the ability to hire or
fire other employees. In order to demonstrate that an employee is a true
managing agent under section 3294,
subdivision (b), a plaintiff seeking punitive damages would have to show that
the employee exercised substantial discretionary authority over significant
aspects of a corporation's business. (emphasis added and underline added.) 
 
In turn, corporate policy is defined as “the general
principles which guide a corporation, or rules intended to be followed
consistently over time in corporate operations.” (Cruz v. HomeBase (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167-168.) 
 
Here, however, aside from their job titles, there are no allegations
about Curry and Van Allen’s job duties. Even assuming that they directed the care and
treatment to Plaintiff, even assuming they were personally involved in or
authorized and ratified all decisions relating to Plaintiff’s care and
treatment, including the misconduct identified in the FAC (i.e., not turning
Plaintiff over every 2 hours), even assuming said decisions had significant
consequences, and even assuming that they had day-to-day management duties
at the Hospital, ultimately, there are no allegations that their
responsibilities determined corporate-wide policies and procedures.
 
Thus, absent particular
facts of the above,[5] neither the facility's
administrator nor its Director of Nursing are managing agents per se. 
 
2.
Whether Understaffing at the Hospital Suffices as Direct or Circumstantial
Evidence of Authorization or Ratification?
 
The issue is “whether one or more
officers, directors or managing agents was aware that the facility was
understaffed at the time that the plaintiff was a patient, whether such
officer, director or managing agent was responsible for the understaffing either
by having caused it or having failed to take steps to correct it, and whether
such understaffing rose to a level of recklessness, oppression, fraud or malice
required by Welfare & Institutions Code to establish a claim for elder
abuse.” (Demurrer p. 6:12-18.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff makes the following new
allegations to show understaffing:
 
On one or more dates pre-dating the Plaintiff’s admission on January 4,
2022, as a result of investigations of Complaints, State deficiencies regarding
Quality of Care/Treatment, Facility Staffing, were identified by the California
Department of Public Health (CDPH). That is, Plaintiff is informed and believes
and thereon alleges that the Defendants failed to comply with the
nurse-to-patient ratio in various hospital units (including the particular
unit(s) the Plaintiff was in) which had the potential to put patients at risks
for their health and safety needs. There were days when the facility was short
staffed, and short of staff for licensed nurses. With regard to the staffing
levels of the particular unit(s) the Plaintiff was in, and how understaffed the
facility was during Plaintiff’s admission, such information is available
from Defendants’ staffing sheets which indicate that the nurse-to-patient
ratios were not complied with and show that Defendants failed to comply with
the nurse-to-patient ratio. For example, the Defendants failed to provide
nursing staff to meet Nurse-to-Patient ratios at 1:2 or fewer at all times in
the intensive care units. Defendants have superior knowledge of
facts relating to complaints filed against them. (See FAC pp. 23-24, emphasis
added.)[6]

 
In sum, Plaintiff alleges that according to staffing sheets, Defendant
failed to provide an adequate number of staff. To the extent that Defendant despite
the sufficiency of this allegation, Defendant argues that “the understaffing
must have been severe.” (Demurrer p. 7:14-16.)[7]

 
What occurs over a period of
time is a critical factor in elder abuse cases. After all, according to CACI 3103, an
element of elder abuse is that the defendant has
a substantial caretaking or custodial relationship with the plaintiff, which is
more than a casual or limited interactions. (See Winn v. Pioneer
Medical Group (2016) 63 Cal.4th 148, 158.) 
 
Applied here, to allege damages arising from understaffing, then
the Plaintiff must allege the duration of which there was understaffing.
But Plaintiff does not provide these facts. Plaintiff, though alleging that the
understaffing happened in the ICU, does not state how long he was in the
ICU. Instead, Plaintiff alleges that on January 4, 2022, he was admitted
to the Hospital to fix his preexisting ventriculoperitoneal shunt; he underwent
an operation; he aspirated during the upper endoscopy, requiring a stay in the
ICU; and he was hospitalized for a month. (See FAC p. 4.) Whether Plaintiff
stayed at the ICU for the entirety of his stay is unclear. 
 
Additionally, as noted by Defendant, Plaintiff does not allege the
required ratio in the ICU. (Demurrer p. 7:16-18 [“For example, if the required
nurse-to-patient ratio was required to be 1:2 in the intensive care unit, as
alleged at paragraph 103, then the issue is what the ratio was. If it was 1:3,
that would be a minimal deviation that would not constitute authorization or
ratification of elder abuse.”].) The specific regulatory violations must be
pled in the complaint. (See Fenimore v. Regents of the University of
California (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 1339, 1348.) 
 
Therefore, absent specific facts, Plaintiff has not shown that
Defendant deliberately understaffed the hospital to serve as a basis for
inference of authorization or ratification.[8]
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, absent allegations of ratification and/or authorization by an
officer, director, or managing agent and absent allegations of severe
understaffing that could lead to the inference of
ratification/authorization by said individuals, the demurrer is SUSTAINED. 
 
As for leave to
amend, it is denied for two reasons. 
 
First, Plaintiff failed to
file an opposition to the first demurrer despite Defense Counsel attempting to
meet and confer multiple times. (See 11/03/23 Demurrer p. 9 of 11 of PDF.) ‘
 
To the extent that
Plaintiff has filed an opposition this time, it merely reiterates allegations
and cites to pages of legal authorities without an analysis. 
 
Thus, to have
Defendant file a third demurrer raising identical arguments would be unfair
and futile. 
 
Second, leave to amend is
granted wherein a Plaintiff shows that he can cure the defects with an amended
complaint. Plaintiff before did not have the facts and now, as to both the
ratification and understaffing issues, he admits to needing discovery to
proceed. As noted by Defendants regarding discovery of the required facts,
“Maybe he will and maybe
he won't, but at this stage of the case he does not have such facts, and it is
not enough to allege generally that there was such authorization or
ratification and that he will learn of the facts at a later date …if the
plaintiff does learn of a factual basis for his claim, then he can move to
amend under Code of Civil Procedure section 4 73 to add a cause of action for
elder abuse.” (Demurrer p. 9:5-9.) Therefore, at this juncture, leave to amend
is denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer
is sustained WITHOUT leave to amend, meaning the motion to strike punitive
damages (based off the elder abuse COA) is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
 
 


