  Case Number:  21STCV08603    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
DEFENDANT MARVIN URBINA, M.D.’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY
JUDGMENT is DENIED because Dr. Johnson’s declaration fails to comply
with the evidentiary requirements set forth in Kelley v. Trunk. 
 
Background
 
This is a
medical malpractice case. Plaintiff Bill Roybal (“Plaintiff”) alleges the
following against Defendants NICK COPELI, M.D., OWER CASTRO, M.D., ADAM COEN,
M.D., PATRICK TRUONG, M.D., DAVID S. LIN, M.D., SERGIO ANTONIO HERNANDEZ, M.D.,
BRENDA HAYAKAWA, M.D., MARVIN URBINA, M.D., EMANATE HEALTH / QUEEN OF THE
VALLEY HOSPITAL:[1]
Plaintiff presented to the emergency room at Emanate on four separate occasions
complaining about abdominal / epigastric pain, pressure, and discomfort. It was
not until the fifth visit on May 6, 2020 where Plaintiff was diagnosed with
acute cholecystitis and gallstone, gangrenous gallbladder with perforation,
abscess, sepsis, and related sequelae necessitating a prolonged hospital
course. Plaintiff primarily alleges that Defendants failed to adequately
examine and diagnose Plaintiff.
 
On March 4,
2021, Plaintiff filed suit. 
 
On May 20,
2022, Plaintiff named Dr. Edwin Edillion as Doe 1. 
 
On March 22,
2023, the court granted Emanate’s MSJ.[2]

 
On March 21,
2023, Defendants Sergio Antonio Hernandez, M.D., Nick Copeli, M.D., and Brenda
Hayakawa, M.D.’S filed their Motion For Summary Judgment (“MSJ” or “MSA”).
 
On May 31,
2023, Plaintiff filed a Notice Of Non- Opposition To Summary Judgment Motion Of
Defendant Nick Copeli, M.D “[b]ased upon discovery and evidence to date, the
moving papers and discussions with counsel for NICK COPELI, M.D., Plaintiff
will not file substantive or procedural opposition to the pending Motion for
Summary Judgment of Nick Copeli, M.D.”[3]

 
On June 9,
2023, the court issued the following minute order stating, in relevant part:
“The Cause is argued by Defense Counsel; Plaintiff's Counsel submits on the
tentative ruling. The Court adopts the Tentative Ruling and the Tentative
Ruling is filed with the Court this date. Defendants' Sergio Antonio Hernandez,
M.D., Nick Copeli, M.D., and Brenda Hayakawa, M.D.’S Notice of Motion and
Motion For Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication is
Granted in Part (As To Dr. Copeli) and Denied in Part (as to Drs. Hayakawa and
Hernandez).” 
 
On November
9, 2023, Dr. Urbina filed the instant MSJ. 
 
On February
27, 2024, Plaintiff filed his opposition to Dr. Urbina’s MSJ.
 
On March 8,
2024, Dr. Urbina (“Defendant”) filed his Reply.
 
Legal
Standard
 
The law of summary judgment provides courts “a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
843 (Aguilar).)  In reviewing a motion for summary judgment,
courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the
pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s
claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence
of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289,
294.) “The motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers
submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)  
 
A moving
defendant bears the initial burden of production to show that one or more
elements of the cause of action cannot be established or that there is a
complete defense to the cause of action, at which point the burden shifts to
the plaintiff to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “The motion shall be supported by affidavits,
declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters
of which judicial notice shall or may be taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (b)(1).)
 
The opposing
party may not rely on the mere allegations or denials of the pleadings, but
instead must set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue exists
as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Aguilar, supra,
at p. 849.) Specifically, “[t]he
opposition, where appropriate, shall consist of affidavits, declarations,
admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which
judicial notice shall or may be taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (2).) 
 
Evidentiary
Objections[4]
 
The only
evidentiary filing received was filed by Dr. Urbina on 3/8/24. Defendant
objects to the entirety of Dr. Kalan’s declaration used in support of
Plaintiff’s opposition to Defendant’s motion. 
 
The court
need not rule on the objection because, for reasons to be discussed below, the
court does not reach Plaintiff’s evidence. 
 
Discussion
 
Dr. Urbina
moves for summary judgment as to the medical negligence COA asserted against
him. The court turns to the motion, opposition, separate statement (SS), and
Plaintiff’s responses to the SS for the presentation of undisputed facts.[5]
 
-       
On
April 28, 2020,
plaintiff presented to the InterCommunity Hospital Emergency Department via
ambulance where he was treated by Nick Copeli, M.D. where he complained of
abdominal pain. He was discharged with a diagnosis of gastritis and advised to
follow up with his primary care physician in 2-3 days or return to the
emergency department for worsening symptoms. (Opp. p. 2:10-12)
 
-       
On
April 29, 2020,
Plaintiff had a telehealth visit with his primary care provider, Dr. Urbina
wherein he still complained of persistent abdominal pain. (Opp. p. 2.) 
 
-       
On
April 30, 2020 (after
4 days of reported epigastric abdominal pain), Plaintiff returned to the
Emergency Department at Inter-Community Hospital. Notes indicate that he was
“screaming in pain” with pain to be 10/10 in severity. (Opp. p. 2.) There,
though Dr. Hernandez was concerned of severe gastritis or an ulcer, he was
treated by Dr. Hernandez who did not order any abdominal imaging. He was
released that day. “Later in the day on April 30, 2020, after being
discharged from Inter-Community Hospital, the patient presented to his PCP, Dr.
Urbina, with complaints of persistent right-sided abdominal pain. Dr.
Urbina’s physical examination was notable for moderate tenderness in the upper
right quadrant and right middle quadrant, questionable rebound tenderness, and
some abdominal distension. Dr. Urbina ordered an outpatient CT scan of the
abdomen and pelvis and gave Mr. Roybal an intramuscular injection of Toradol,
60 mg. He prescribed gabapentin, metoclopramide, and Norco, and advised the
patient to go back to the emergency department if his pain worsened.” (Opp. pp.
3-4.) 
 
-       
On
May 4, 2020, Plaintiff
returned to Dr. Urbina’s office still complaining of severe persistent
right-sided abdominal pain; he had a rash on his right side; fever of 100.4;
and 2-3 areas of blistering on his abdominal wall (he had undergone a CT scan earlier
that day). Dr. Urbina called 911 to transport Plaintiff to the hospital. At
the hospital, Plaintiff was treated by Dr. Hayakawa, who believed Plaintiff had
shingles. (Opp. p. 3.) Plaintiff was discharged that day. That same day, Dr.
Urbina’s office received results from Mr. Roybal’s CT of the abdomen and
pelvis. The results showed a 1cm/partial thickness gallbladder wall ulceration.
No one from Dr. Urbina’s office reported these results to Mr. Roybal. 
 
-       
On May 6, 2020, patient again called Dr. Urbina complaining of pain; Dr. Urbina advised Plaintiff to go
the hospital. There, Plaintiff underwent surgery for acute cholecystitis,
gallbladder perforation, and intra-abdominal abscess.
 
-       
On
May 8, 2020,
Plaintiff returned to surgery to remove the packing material that had been left
in his abdomen to control bleeding. Mr. Roybal remained septic and
postoperatively had peritonitis. (Opp. p. 5.) 
 
Based on the foregoing, there are two issues
presented in the motion: 
 
1.     Whether Dr. Urbina breached the
standard of care
2.     Whether, if Dr. Urbina breached his
standard of care, the purported negligence proximately caused Plaintiff’s
alleged injuries. (See Motion p. 3:10-14.)  
 
The elements of medical malpractice
are: “(1) the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and
diligence as other members of his profession commonly possess and exercise; (2)
a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent
conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from
the professional’s negligence.” (Simmons v. West Covina Medical Clinic
(1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 696, 701-02.) 
 
“Both the
standard of care and defendants’ breach must normally be established by expert
testimony in a medical malpractice case.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente
Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.) 
 
a.     Defendant’s Evidentiary Burden
 
Dr. Urbina
relies upon the declaration of Dr. Richard A. Johnson. 
 
However, though not argued by Plaintiff, Johnson’s
declaration fails to meet evidentiary requirements. 
 
The seminal
case of Kelley v. Trunk (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 519 is squarely on point
and provides the legal framework necessary to resolve the sufficiency of
Defendant’s evidence. In Kelley, a plaintiff presented to a hospital for
a deep laceration. The laceration was stitched and plaintiff was given
medicine. The plaintiff continued to be in pain but rather than inquire about
the symptoms or request that plaintiff be re-examined, Dr. Trunk referred him
to a different physician. About one week later, the plaintiff required surgery.
One of the physicians, Dr. Trunk, moved for summary judgment after the
plaintiff sued him alleging that Plaintiff had lost use of his arm and other
damage as a pain of negligent medical. In support of the motion, Dr. Trunk
submitted the declaration of another physician, Dr. Herndon. Dr. Herndon’s
declaration was a page-and-a-half long, reciting his credentials (which were
substantial), and listed the medical records Dr. Herndon had reviewed. The
appellate court found that the trial court improperly granted summary judgment
because primarily because (1) Dr. Herndon’s declaration did not disclose the
matter relied on in forming the opinion express and (2) his opinion was
unsupported by reasons or explanations. Specifically, the court reasoned that: 
 
What was the nature of the disease or condition that
required Kelley's surgery? Was it brought on by the laceration? What symptoms
of this condition reasonably might have been observable at the time Kelley
complained to Dr. Trunk of continuing intense pain unmediated by medication?
Should a reasonable doctor at this point in time have recognized the
possibility of severe complications? If so, why? If not, why not? Would
complications of the kind Kelley eventually suffered have become evident any
earlier than three or four days after the laceration? Would earlier
intervention have mitigated Kelley's injury? Herndon's declaration addressed
none of these issues. Without illuminating explanation, it was insufficient
to carry Dr. Trunks's burden in moving for summary judgment. (Id. at 524-525) (emphasis
added.) 
 
Similarly,
here, Dr. Johnson’s opinion provides merely provides a conclusion.  
 
It is my opinion that to a reasonable medical probability, no negligent
act or omission by Dr. Urbina caused or contributed to any injuries or damages
to Mr. Roybal. Per the subsequent hospital records, on May 6, the patient
underwent an open cholecystectomy. If the patient had been diagnosed with
perforated gallbladder a day earlier, he would still have undergone the
surgery or cholecystectomy. In following, no act or omission by Dr. Urbina
would have caused changed the patient’s need to have undergone a cholecystectomy.
(Johnson Decl., ¿ 11, emphasis added.) 
 
There is no
mention of: 
 
-       
how
a physician in similar or like circumstances would have interpreted the
symptoms  
-       
whether
another physician in similar or like circumstances would have ordered a
pelvic/abdominal CT scan on April 29, 2020
-       
what
a physician in similar or like circumstances would have suspected was the
diagnosis based upon the persistent right-sided abdominal pain; rash on his
right side and fever of 100.4 as exhibited on May 4, 2020.[6]

 
In short, there is no explanation as to why
Plaintiff would have still had to undergo a cholecystectomy (i.e., whether less
invasive surgery possible if have learned of the diagnosis earlier). Accordingly, Dr. Johnson’s
declaration, similar to that in Kelley, is a “laconic expert declaration . . . which provide[s] only an ultimate
opinion, unsupported by reasoned explanation.” (Id. at 525.) 
 
Thus, as
causation is already ordinarily a question of fact, making its determination on
a summary judgment improper unless under
undisputed facts there is no room for a reasonable difference of opinion on
casual nexus, here, the court finds it would be a grave abuse of its discretion
to determine the issue without sufficient evidence. 
 
Therefore, as Dr. Johnson’s declaration is insufficient to carry
Defendant’s evidentiary burden, there are triable issues of material
fact as to standard of care and causation. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion is DENIED. 


