


[1] As with before,
although Defendant maintains that the care rendered to Plaintiff was not
reckless, they focus on the requirement that Plaintiff plead sufficient facts
as to authorization or ratification. (Demurrer p. 5:18-22.) 
 


[2] Plaintiff argues
that the "authorization/ ratification" requirement does not apply if
the defendant is not a corporation. (Opp. p. 13.) But the FAC alleges that
Emanate Health Medical Center is a corporation. To ameliorate any
confusion, Defendant submits Emanate Health Medical Center is a corporation.
(Reply p. 4, see Ex. A.)
 


[3] Plaintiff now provides more names of
individuals of purportedly ratified or authorized the conduct of its staff,
that is merely a list of 14 names without any facts tying any of these
individuals to any conduct amounting to authorization or ratification.
(Demurrer p. 6:4-10.) Plaintiff again merely conclusively states that
these individuals (most of which are not even labeled as officers, directors or
managing agents) had actual knowledge of the improper supervision of the
Plaintiff.
 


[4] Neither the demurrer
nor reply address this case. 


[5] Pleading authorization or ratification with
particularity is required for allegations of elder abuse. (See Covenant
Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790.) 
 


[6] While Defendants
argue Plaintiff cite to happenings prior to Plaintiff’s admission, that
may be true, but the allegations also address happenings at the time of Plaintiff’s
admission. (Demurrer p. 7:4-7.) That said, what Defendants did before, shortly
before, or immediately preceding Plaintiff’s admission can constitute as
circumstantial evidence. (See Hartman v. Shell Oil Co., (1977) 68
Cal.App.3d 240 [circumstantial evidence of ratification sufficient].) 
 


[7] Defendants also rely upon Worsham
v. O’Connor Hospital (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 331, but Worshom is
inapposite for an important reason: Defendants are not disputing
recklessness. 
 


[8] In fact, as observed
by Defendants in demurrer, Plaintiff admits at paragraph 104 that he does not
have facts with which to plead an elder abuse cause of action, stating that
such facts will be obtained during discovery. (Demurrer p. 8, quoting FAC 104 [“Discovery
will show further how understaffed the facility was, the staffing levels of the
particular unit(s) the Plaintiff was in, the dates when the facility was
understaffed and when staff failed to perform wound care while the Decedent was
a patient at the hospital as a result of understaffing, among others. These
facts are presumptively within Defendants’ knowledge or are ascertainable by
invoking discovery procedures.”].)

