 Case Number:  21NWCV00430    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  C ATV, INC. v. INTEGRITY INSURANCE SERVICES, INC.
CASE NO.:  21NWCV00430
HEARING:   3/6/24 @ 10:30 AM
#7
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff ATV Inc.’s motion for leave to
amend to substitute plaintiff HYE, LLC is GRANTED. 
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Background
This
is an insurance broker malpractice action. On December 28, 2018, a fire broke out
at 1395 E. Washington Street in Colton, California. The insurer, Allied World
National Assurance Company, denied coverage based on an exclusion for vacant
properties. Plaintiff ATV, Inc., also known as American Tire Depot, alleges
that its broker, Integrity Insurance Services, Inc. dba Hawley Insurance
Services did not procure adequate commercial property insurance on its behalf.
Plaintiff
sues Integrity Insurance Services, Inc. for the following: 
1.   
Professional
Negligence;
2.   
Negligent
Misrepresentation;
3.   
Breach
of Contract; and 
4.   
Declaratory
Relief. 
 
Legal
Standard
Amendments naming a new party plaintiff
are permitted if there is no change in the claim being asserted. (Branick v. Downey Sav. & Loan Ass'n (2006) 39 Cal.4th 235, 243.) Similar principles
govern whether an amendment relates back for purposes of the statute of
limitations to the date on which the original complaint was filed. (Id.,
at 244.) The relation-back doctrine requires that the amended complaint (1) rests
on the same general set of facts, (2) involve the same injury, and (3) refer to
the same instrumentality. (Ibid.)
The Court has discretion to deny leave to amend when the party seeking
the amendment has been dilatory and the delay has prejudiced the
opposing party. (See Hirsa
v. Super. Ct. (Vickers) (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d
486, 490.)
Requests
for Judicial Notice
Defendant
requests judicial notice of the following: (1) Statement of Information for
HYE, LLC filed with California Secretary of State on September 13, 2021; (2)
Statement of Information for ATV, Inc. filed with the California Secretary of
State on October 28, 2020; and (3) Statement of Information for ATD Holdings,
Inc. filed with California Secretary of State on December 14, 2022.
Materials
prepared by private parties that are on file with governmental agencies, such
as the Secretary of State, are not official records of which judicial notice
may be taken.  (People v. Thacker
(1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 594, 598-99.) Thus, the Court denies
Defendant’s requests for judicial notice. 

 
Leave to Amend to
Substitute Plaintiff 
 
Plaintiff moves to substitute HYE, LLC as the named plaintiff. Plaintiff
asserts that HYE, LLC is also a named insured, its relationship with the
current plaintiff was known to Hawley, it has standing, and the claims alleged would
be the same. Plaintiff also argues that no prejudice would result. 
 
Defendant argues that HYE, LLC’s claims are barred by the statute
of limitations because they do not “relate back” to the original
complaint.  According to Defendant, HYE,
LLC’s claims entail a distinct injury and would impose greater liability upon Defendant
than Plaintiff’s claims.  Defendant
argues HYE, LLC would assert claims “by the owner of the Subject Property, which
heretofore have not been asserted.” (Opp., p. 11:12-14.) However, this argument
is undermined by Defendant’s assertion elsewhere that original plaintiff’s
itemized damages consist of the “replacement cost of the structure; lost
business property; and prejudgment interest.” (Defendant’s Memorandum of Points
and Authorities in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment, p. 5:22-25, italics
added.)
 
The Court finds that there appears to be no distinct injury if
HYE, LLC becomes the plaintiff. Both are named insured on the insurance policy.
(Decl. Tchaghlassian, ¶ 4, Ex. 1.)  As the
owner of the real property, HYE, LLC has appeared only to suffer the loss of
the structure of the real property. As the business that planned to operate at
the subject property, original plaintiff also appears to suffer the loss of the
structure of the real property. The real property would likely be used for the
plaintiff’s business activities, including housing Plaintiff’s business. Substituting
HYE, LLC as the plaintiff would not add injuries to the lawsuit.  
 
Defendant also argues that prejudice will result because there
would be insufficient time to challenge HYE, LLC’s belated claim by summary
judgment. Defendant further argues that if a continuance were granted, it would
need to conduct additional discovery as to the new plaintiff, file motions, and
prepare for trial. However, there are no new claims asserted. Plaintiff only
seeks to substitute HYE, LLC as the plaintiff.  In addition, Defendant argues that Plaintiff unreasonably
delayed this substitution. Because the Court found that no prejudice will
result, it will not adjudicate this issue. 
 
Thus, Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to substitute plaintiff HYE, LLC is GRANTED. 