 Case Number:  22STCV29276    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  C KHACHIKYAN v. PLATINUM
TRANSPORTATION GROUP, INC. 
CASE
NO.:  22STCV29276
HEARING:  02/29/24
 
#ADD-ON
 
Intervenor PHILADELPHIA INDEMNITY INSURANCE’s
Ex Parte Application for an Order Appointing a Discovery Referee is DENIED without prejudice.  

 
Moving
Party to give Notice. 
 
 
Plaintiff-in-Intervention
PHILADELPHIA INDEMNITY INSURANCE COMPANY and Defendant MIGUEL ANGEL PACHECO
(collectively “Moving Party”) move for the appointment of a discovery referee
to preside over oral depositions based upon the manner in which Plaintiff’s
counsel has conducted herself during several depositions.  Moving Party also requests that a discovery
referee be appointed to “determine any and all disputes relevant to the
proceedings and scheduling of depositions.” (Motion 2:7-8.) Moving Party
indicates that at there are “approximately 25 more fact depositions and then 10
expert depositions” affected. (Motion 11:16.) 
 
In
Opposition, Plaintiffs maintain that the reason depositions have not been
completed to date is due to the Moving Party’s own dilatory tactics. In their
Supplemental Opposition, Plaintiffs argue that the Motion should be denied
because Plaintiff Ani Khachikyan is unable to pay for a discovery referee. 
 
The
benefits of appointing a discovery referee are apparent to the Court.  There are a number of depositions remaining;
and the parties have relied upon having motions/requests heard by way of ex
parte applications due to the preferential trial designation and the Court’s
congested calendar.  A discovery referee
can more quickly and efficiently resolve the parties’ outstanding discovery
conflicts, which would enable this case to proceed to trial as soon as
possible.  Moreover, due to the highly
contentious nature of the pending litigation, and accusations of incivility
during depositions, a discovery referee can address any improper conduct as it occurs
during a deposition.  
 
Notwithstanding
these apparent benefits, the court’s authority to appoint a discovery referee
is limited where a party establishes an inability to pay a pro rata share of
the costs.  A court shall not appoint a
referee at a cost to the parties unless no party has established an
inability to pay or, where one or more parties are unable to pay, another party
has agreed voluntarily to pay the additional pro rata share(s). (CCP §
639((d)(6)(A).) Here, Plaintiff Ani Kachikyan declares she is unable to pay her
pro rata share due to injuries allegedly sustained during the automobile
collision at issue in this case.  Her
husband, Kirakos Kesablyan, declares his income is barely enough to pay for
daily necessities at this time. 
Therefore, unless another party voluntarily agrees to pay for
Plaintiffs’ pro rata share of costs, the Court is without authority to appoint
a discovery referee.  
 
Accordingly,
Intervenor PHILADELPHIA INDEMNITY INSURANCE’s Ex Parte Application for an Order
Appointing a Discovery Referee is DENIED
without prejudice.  
 