 Case Number:  22NWCV01538    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  C FRIAS v. MARTINEZ
CASE NO.:  22NWCV01538
HEARING:   3/6/2024 @ 9:30 AM
 
#2
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s counsel Daniel Azizi’s
motion to be relieved as counsel for Benjamin Frias is GRANTED. The order shall take
effect when the proof of service of the signed order on the client has been
filed with the court.
 
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel Daniel Azizi moves to be relieved as counsel for Benjamin
Frias. 
 
Good cause exists to grant the motion based on
any of the grounds under Rules of Professional Conduct Rule 3-700(C). Rule
3-700(c) provides that an attorney may withdraw based on any of the following:
(1) The client (a) insists upon presenting a claim or defense that is not
warranted under existing law and cannot be supported by good faith argument for
an extension, modification, or reversal of existing law, or (b) seeks to pursue
an illegal course of conduct, or (c) insists that the member pursue a course of
conduct that is illegal or that is prohibited under these rules or the State
Bar Act, or (d) by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the
member to carry out the employment effectively, or (e) insists, in a matter not
pending before a tribunal, that the member engage in conduct that is contrary
to the judgment and advice of the member but not prohibited under these rules
or the State Bar Act, or (f) breaches an agreement or obligation to the member
as to expenses or fees. (2) The continued employment is likely to result in a
violation of these rules or of the State Bar Act; or (3) the inability to work
with co-counsel indicates that the best interests of the client likely will be
served by withdrawal; or (4) The member's mental or physical condition renders
it difficult for the member to carry out the employment effectively; or (5) The
client knowingly and freely assents to termination of the employment; or (6)
The member believes in good faith, in a proceeding pending before a tribunal,
that the tribunal will find the existence of other good cause for withdrawal.
 
The attorney declaration demonstrates good
cause for withdrawal based on a breakdown in the attorney-client relationship. Counsel’s
declaration indicates that the client was served by mail at his last known
address.
 
Accordingly, the motion is GRANTED on
condition that the proposed order is updated with new dates. The order shall take effect when the proof of
service of the signed order on the client has been filed with the court.
 
 
 