 Case Number:  22STCV27541    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Issue, Evidentiary, and Monetary Sanctions filed by
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District
 
Tentative
The motion is granted in part and denied in
part.
Background
This case
arises out of an incident that occurred on August 16, 2021, in which Plaintiff
Roy A. Hemsley (“Plaintiff”), a 13-year-old autistic middle school student, was
allegedly left unattended and allowed to run or wander five miles from his
school campus before being discovered later that day.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 20-30.)  
On August
24, 2022, Plaintiff filed the Complaint in this action, asserting causes of
action for negligent hiring, retention, and supervision; negligence; negligent
infliction of emotional distress; and intentional infliction of emotional
distress against Defendants Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”),
County of Los Angeles (“County”), Inclusive Education and Community
Partnership, Inc. (“IECP”), Lara Ruby, Wendy De La O, Alvin Walker, Daryl
Davis, and Does 1 through 100.  On
October 21, 2022, the Court, at the request of Plaintiff, dismissed all claims
against County without prejudice.
On February
8, 2023, the Court sustained in part (with leave to amend in part) and
overruled in part a demurrer and granted (with leave to amend in part) a motion
to strike.
On March 8,
2023, Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint (the “FAC”), asserting causes
of action for negligent hiring, retention, and supervision; negligence; and
intentional infliction of emotional distress against the same defendants
(except for County).
On May 15,
2023, the Court sustained (with leave to amend) a demurrer to the negligent
hiring, retention, and supervision and the intentional infliction of emotional
distress causes of action and granted (with leave to amend in part) a motion to
strike.  Plaintiff did not amend further.
On July 24,
2023, Defendants LAUSD, Walker, and Davis filed their Answer to the FAC.  On the same day, LAUSD filed a
Cross-Complaint against IECP and Roes 1 through 50.
On July 26,
2023, Defendants IECP and De La O filed their Answer to the FAC.  On the same day, IECP also filed a
Cross-Complaint against LAUSD and Moes 1 through 50, and an Answer to LAUSD’s
Cross-Complaint.
On August
4, 2023, LAUSD filed an Answer to IECP’s Cross-Complaint.
There have been a number of discovery issues that have
come before the Court.  As is
particularly relevant here, in April 2023, LAUSD served Plaintiff with
discovery, including Special Interrogatories and Requests for Production.  Plaintiff served responses that were not code
complaint, and LAUSD moved to compel further responses.  The Court heard the motions, took the matter
under submission, and issued a ruling granting the motions on January 2,
2024.  The Court ordered Plaintiff to
provide responses to four interrogatories and to comply with 19 requests for
production of documents within 10 days of notice.  The Clerk gave notice by mail on January 2.
Fourteen
days later, on January 16, 2024, LAUSD filed a motion to dismiss the FAC as a
terminating sanction against Plaintiff. 
LAUSD also sought monetary sanctions. 
On February 20, 2024, the Court denied the motion to strike but granted
the request for further monetary sanctions. 
On March 19, 2023, LAUSD filed this motion for issue,
evidence, and monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel.
No opposition has been filed.
Trial is scheduled for June 6, 2024.
Legal Standard
When a party fails to obey a court
order compelling further responses to interrogatories or requests for
production, “the court may make those orders that are just, including the
imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction under Chapter 7 ….  In lieu of,
or in addition to, that sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction
under Chapter 7 ….”  (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.300, subd. (e), 2031.310, subd. (i).)
In Chapter 7 of the Civil Discovery Action, section 2023.030,
subdivisions (a)-(d), authorizes monetary sanctions, issue sanctions, evidence
sanctions, and terminating sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is
a “misuse of the discovery process.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030.)  In
section 2023.010, a “misuse of the discovery
process” is defined to include (among other things) failing to respond or to
submit to an authorized method of discovery; making, without substantial
justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery; making an evasive response
to a discovery request; disobeying a court order to provide discovery; and
making or opposing, unsuccessfully, a motion to compel without substantial
justification. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subds. (d)-(h).) 
The Civil Discovery Act provides for an escalating and
“incremental approach to discovery sanctions, starting with monetary sanctions
and ending with the ultimate sanction of termination.” (Lopez v. Watchtower
Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th
566, 604.) Discovery sanctions should be appropriate to and commensurate
with the misconduct, and they “should not exceed that which is required to
protect the interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.” (Doppes
v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992.) “If a lesser
sanction fails to curb misuse, a greater sanction is warranted: continuing
misuses of the discovery process warrant incrementally harsher sanctions until
the sanction is reached that will curb the abuse.” (Ibid.; see also,
e.g., Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th
262, 279-280.) 
The
primary purpose of discovery sanctions is to obtain compliance with the Civil
Discovery Act and the Court’s orders. It is not to punish. (Newland v.
Super. Ct. (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 608, 613; Ghanooni v. Super
Shuttle of Los Angeles (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 256, 262.) A discovery
sanction should not create a “windfall” for a party or place a party in a
better position than it would have been if the opposing party had simply
complied with its obligations under the Court’s orders and the Civil Discovery
Act. (Rutledge v. Hewlett-Packard Co. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1164,
1194; see also 2 Weil & Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure
Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023), ¶¶ 8:2214-2220.)
Discussion
On
January 2, 2024, the Court granted LAUSD’s motion to compel Plaintiff to
provide further responses to Special Interrogatories 28-31 and Requests for
Production 1-5, 7-12, 18, and 24-30. 
Plaintiff has not complied with this order.  (Mullane Decl., ¶ 5.)
 
Defendants
brought a motion for terminating sanctions; it was denied, but monetary
sanctions were granted. (Id., ¶ 4.) Defendants have yet to receive
further responses per the Court’s order. (Id., ¶ 5.)
 
This is
a serious misuse of the discovery process by Plaintiff.  Plaintiff has refused to comply with his
obligations under the Civil Discovery Act and has violated a court order
requiring him to provide discovery responses. 
An order imposing monetary sanctions on Plaintiff and his counsel has
not been sufficient to bring Plaintiff into compliance.  Serious sanctions are appropriate for this
serious misconduct.
 
As the
Court of Appeal has directed, the Court takes an incremental and escalating
approach to sanctions.  The Court is
seeking to obtain compliance with the requirements of the Civil Discovery Act
and this Court’s order, not to punish Plaintiff or to provide a windfall to
LAUSD.
 
Special
Interrogatories Nos. 28-31 seek information about the factual bases for the
allegations in paragraphs 65 and 67 of the FAC. 
In paragraph 65, Plaintiff alleges that “this incident was not a rare
event, as there were many other incidents of illegal and unlawful activity.”  In paragraph 67, Plaintiff that “this is a
high crime area.”
 
Requests
for Production Nos. 1-3 seek documents relating to the first, second, and third
causes of action in the FAC.  Requests
for Production Nos. 4-5 seek documents relating to Plaintiff’s contention that
LAUSD recklessly or negligently caused Plaintiff’s injury.  Requests for Production Nos. 7-10 seek
documents relating to Plaintiff’s contentions that LAUSD negligently supervised
Plaintiff, negligently hired employees, negligently supervised employees, and negligently
retained employees.  Requests for
Production Nos. 11-12 seek documents relating to Plaintiff’s contentions that
the conduct of LAUSD employees was outrageous or intentional.  Request No. 18 seeks documents relating to
the damages that Plaintiff is claiming.  Request
No. 24 seeks documents relating to insurance policies.  Request No. 25 seeks documents relating to
persons who may have knowledge of the incident. 
Requests Nos. 26-28 seek documents depicting the scene; diaries or notes
prepared by Plaintiff regarding the incident or Plaintiff’s health condition
following the incident.  Requests Nos.
29-20 seek documents identified in responses to Form Interrogatories (Set One)
or Special Interrogatories (Set One).
 
After
careful consideration of the discovery requests at issue, the evidence and
argument presented by moving party, and the Court’s file in this matter, the Court
DENIES the request of LAUSD for an issue sanction establishing that LAUSD and
its employees did not breach any duty owed to Plaintiff.  The Court finds that LAUSD has not made a
sufficient showing, at this point and on this record, for such an issue
sanction.
 
The Court
GRANTS in part the request of LAUSD for an evidence sanction against Plaintiff.
 
As an
evidence sanction, the Court ORDERS that Plaintiff may not, either at or before
trial (except in connection with any further motions relating to discovery), present
or seek the admission of any documentary evidence relating to his causes of
action against LAUSD and its employees, or any claim for damages against LAUSD
and its employees, except documentary evidence that has been produced by
Plaintiff or otherwise exchanged in discovery in this action prior to the date
of this order, April 18, 2024.
 
In
addition, and as a further evidence sanction, the Court ORDERS that Plaintiff
may not not, either at or before trial (except in connection with any further motions
relating to discovery), present or seek the admission of any evidence of any
kind relating to his allegation in paragraph 65 of the FAC that “this incident
was not a rare event, as there were many other incidents of illegal and
unlawful activity,” or his allegation in paragraph 67 of the FAC that “this is
a high crime area.”
 
The
Court also GRANTS in part the request of LAUSD for further monetary sanctions.  LAUSD has shown further and ongoing misuse of
the discovery process by Plaintiff; Plaintiff’s conduct is not substantially
justified, and it would not be unjust to impose a further monetary sanction on
Plaintiff for this further discovery abuse. 
The Court sets sanctions in the amount of $540, calculated based on
three hours of attorney time multiplied by counsel’s reasonable hourly rate of
$180.00 per hour.  (See Mullane Decl., ¶ 6.)
Conclusion
The Court DENIES LAUSD’s motion for issue
sanctions.
The Court GRANTS LAUSD’s motion for evidence
sanctions, as set forth above.
The Court GRANTS LAUSD’s request for a
further monetary sanction.
The Court ORDERS Plaintiff and counsel of
record DRE Law, APC, jointly and severally, to pay further monetary sanctions
under the Civil Discovery Act to LAUSD in the amount of $540 within 30 days of
notice.
Defendant LAUSD to give notice.