 Case Number:  23STCV06520    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion
for Summary Judgment, filed by Defendant Ava Arts District, L.P. and Covi
Concrete Construction, Inc.
TENTATIVE
The
motion is granted.
Background
On March 24, 2023, Plaintiff Raul Gutierrez Rosas (“Plaintiff”)
filed the complaint in this action against Defendants Ava Arts District, L.P.
(“Defendant”); Covi Concrete Construction, Inc. (“Covi”); and Does 1 through 50,
asserting causes of action for negligence and premises liability arising out of
fall at a construction site on February 2, 2022, at or near 1540 East
Industrial Street in Los Angeles.
Defendant and Covi filed answers on May 18, 2023.
On February
1, 2024, Defendant filed this motion for summary judgment or, in the
alternative, for summary adjudication. Plaintiff filed his opposition on April
4, and Defendant filed its reply on April 12.
Legal
Standard
“The purpose of the law of summary judgment
is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in
order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact
necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision
(c), “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary
judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits
or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact
within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento
(1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each cause of action as framed by the
complaint, a defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to show “that one or
more elements of the cause of action ... cannot be established, or that there
is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851; Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the
defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that
a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action
or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851.)
A plaintiff or cross-complainant moving for
summary judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of
proof by presenting facts to show “that there is no defense to a cause of
action if that party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling
the party to judgment on the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(1).) Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the
burden shift to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a “triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” (Ibid.)
The party opposing a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication may not simply “rely upon the allegations or
denials of its pleadings” but must instead “set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subds. (p)(1) & (p)(2). To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.
(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
Request
for Judicial Notice
The
Court GRANTS Defendant’s request for Judicial Notice of Plaintiff’s complaint in
this action. 
Discussion
Plaintiff asserts causes of action against Defendant
for negligence and premises liability. The basic elements of a cause of action
for negligence and for premises liability are the same: (1) the existence of a
legal duty; (2) breach of that
duty; (3) causation; and (4) resulting damages. (Brown v. USA Taekwondo
(2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 213; Kesner
v. Superior Court (2016) 1
Cal.5th 1132, 1158; Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) 
Defendant
contends that, under the so-called Privette doctrine, it neither owed
nor breached any duty to Plaintiff, and that no exception to Privette
applies here. In addition, and alternatively, Defendant argues that the
undisputed facts show that it did not breach any duty to Plaintiff and that
nothing that Defendant did (or failed to do) was a proximate cause of
Plaintiff’s injuries.
Duty
and Breach Under the Privette Doctrine and its Exceptions 
Defendant’s primary argument is that under the rule
of Privette v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 689, and its progeny,
Defendant owed no duty to Plaintiff and breached no duty to Plaintiff, and that
therefore Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant are barred as a matter of law.
In Privette and subsequent cases, courts have repeatedly affirmed the
rule that when a person or entity hires an independent contractor to provide
work or services, and one of the contractor’s employees is injured on the job,
the hirer is generally not liable to the employee. (Id., at p. 702; see
also, e.g., Gonzalez v. Mathis (2021) 12 Cal.5th 29, 41 [“we have
repeatedly reaffirmed the basic rule that a hirer is typically not liable for
injuries sustained by an independent contractor or its workers while on the
job”]; Camargo v. Tjaarda Dairy (2001) 25 Cal.4th 1235, 1244-1245.)
Initially, the California Supreme Court based this
rule primarily on the existence of the worker’s compensation remedial scheme.
As the cases explained: (1) workers compensation coverage generally provides
the exclusive remedy for injuries sustained at work; and (2) the hirer (the
owner of the work premises or the person or entity that hires a contractor to
provide services through the contractor’s employees) “should be subject to no
greater liability” than the contractor. (Privette, supra, 5 Cal.4th at
p. 699.) 
[T]he rule of workers’ compensation exclusivity, which shields an
independent contractor who pays workers’ compensation insurance premiums from
further liability to its employees for on-the-job injuries, should equally
protect the property owner who, in hiring the contractor, is indirectly paying
for the cost of such coverage, which the contractor presumably has calculated
into the contract price. Therefore, … the property owner should not have to pay
for injuries caused by the contractor’s negligent performance of the work when
workers’ compensation statutes already cover those injuries.
(Ibid.) 
In the decades since the Privette decision,
courts have “recast [the] primary rationale for the Privette doctrine in
terms of delegation rather than workers’ compensation.” (Sandoval v.
Qualcomm (2021) 12 Cal.5th 256, 270.) “There is a strong presumption under
California law that a hirer of an independent contractor delegates to the
contractor all responsibility for workplace safety.” (Gonzalez, supra, 12
Cal.5th at p. 37.) “This means that a hirer is typically not liable for
injuries sustained by an independent contractor or its workers while on the
job.” (Id., at pp. 37-38.) 
“When a person or organization hires an independent contractor, the hirer
presumptively delegates to the contractor the responsibility to do the work
safely. … This presumption is grounded in two major principles: first, that
independent contractors by definition ordinarily control the manner of their
own work; and second, that hirers typically hire independent contractors
precisely for their greater ability to perform the contracted work safely and
successfully.”
(Sandoval, supra, at p. 269.) The hirer, in
contrast, “is typically less knowledgeable and more poorly positioned to
prevent injury to the contract workers than the contractor is.” (Id. at
p. 270.) Accordingly, “A person or entity hiring an independent contractor (a
‘hirer’) ordinarily delegates to that independent contractor all responsibility
for the safety of the contractor’s workers.” (Id. at p. 264; see also,
e.g., Seabright Ins. Co. v. U.S. Airways, Inc. (2011) 52 Cal.4th 590,
597 [“Our decisions recognize a presumptive delegation of responsibility for
workplace safety from the hirer to the independent contractor, and a
concomitant delegation of duty.”]; Tverberg v. Fillner Construction, Inc. (2012)
202 Cal.App.4th 1439, 1445 [“When a hirer delegates contracted work to an
independent contractor, it also impliedly delegates its duty to provide a safe
workplace to that contractor. In these circumstances, the hirer has no duty and
the contractor may not recover from the hirer for his or her injuries.”].)
The California Supreme Court has recognized two
primary exceptions to the Privette doctrine. First, the hirer may be
liable where it “retains control over the contractor’s work and actually
exercises that control in a way that affirmatively contributes to the worker’s
injury.” (Sandoval, supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 264; see also, e.g., Gonzalez,
supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 38.) This is sometimes referred to as the “Hooker
exception,” named after the California Supreme Court case in which the
exception was recognized, Hooker v. Department of Transportation (2002)
27 Cal.4th 198, 202. The Hooker exception applies only when the evidence
shows “not only that the hirer retained control over the contracted work, but
also that the hirer actually exercised that retained control in a manner than
affirmatively contributed to the contract worker’s injury.” (Sandoval,
supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 274.) Merely retaining the right to become involved
is not sufficient; rather, there must be evidence that through (for example)
“direction” or “participation,” the hirer actually “involve[d] itself in the
contracted work” to such an extent that the contractor was “not entirely free
to do the work in the contractor’s own manner.” (Sandoval, supra, 12
Cal.5th at p. 276; see also, e.g., Gonzalez, supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 42;
Tverberg, supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1446-1448.) 
If the immediate cause of the worker’s injury is the
conduct of the contractor, a plaintiff must show that “the hirer in some
respect induced – not just failed to prevent – the contractor’s injury-causing
conduct.” (Sandoval, supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 277.) Alternatively, a
plaintiff may demonstrate affirmative conduct by the hirer through evidence
that “the hirer’s exercise of retained control contribute[d] to the injury
independently of the contractor’s contribution (if any) to the injury.” (Ibid.)  
Second, the hirer may also be liable where it
“withholds critical information regarding a concealed hazard.” (Id., at
p. 264.) This is sometimes referred to as the “Kinsman exception,” named
after the California Supreme Court case in which the exception was recognized, Kinsman
v. Unocal Corp. (2005) 37 Cal.4th 659. Although the hirer ordinarily “turns
over control of the worksite to the contractor so that the contract can perform
the contracted work,” the hirer may still be liable under the Kinsman exception
for injuries resulting from a “hazard that the hirer either knows or reasonably
should know exists, and that the contractor does not know exists and could not
reasonably discover without the hirer’s disclosure.” (Sandoval, supra, 12
Cal.5th at pp. 271-272; see also, e.g., Gonzalez, supra, 12 Cal.5th at
pp. 38, 42-43; Kinsman, supra, 37 Cal.4th at p. 664.) 
The Kinsman exception is a limited in scope.
As the California Supreme Court explained in Kinsman:
[W]hen there is a known safety hazard on a hirer’s premises that can be
addressed through reasonably safety precautions on the part of the independent
contract, a corollary of Privette and its progeny is that the hirer
generally delegates the responsibility to take such precautions to the
contractor, and is not liable to the contractor’s employee if the contractor
fails to do so. We see no persuasive reason why this principle should not apply
when the safety hazard is caused by a preexisting condition on the property,
rather than by the method in which the work is conducted.
(37 Cal.4th at pp. 673-674.) The landowner or hirer
may be liable only when the hazard “is concealed from the contractor.” (Id.
at p. 674.) For the exception to apply, there must be a showing that (1) the
landowner or hirer “knows or reasonably should know of a concealed, preexisting
hazardous condition on its premises”; (2) the contractor “does not know and
could not reasonably ascertain the condition”; and (3) the landowner or hirer
does not warn the contractor. (Id. at p. 675.)
The Second District Court of Appeal recently
addressed the scope of the Kinsman exception in Acosta v. MAS Realty,
LLC (2023) 96 Cal.App.5th 635, a detailed and thorough opinion authored by
Justice Edmon. The basic delegation principle of the Privette doctrine,
as summarized in Acosta, is as follows: “Because the hirer presumptively
delegates to the independent contractor the authority to determine the manner
in which the work is to be performed, the contractor also assumes the
responsibility to ensure that the worksite is safe, and the work is performed
safely.” (Id., at p. 650.)
The
Application of the Privette Doctrine
Plaintiff
alleges that he was injured in an on-the-job accident that occurred at a construction
site. (Complaint, ¶ 11, 13; Defendant’s Statement of Undisputed Material Facts
[“DSUMF”], Nos. 8-9.) Plaintiff alleges that he “fell from the third story,
approximately thirty (30) feet below when he stepped through a hole on the
floor covered by an unsecured piece of plywood that had been left and created
by DEFENDANTS.” (Complaint, ¶ 13; DSUMF, No. 9.)
Defendant
owned and was the general contractor of the construction project. (DSUMF, No.
1.) Defendant is not itself a contractor that specializes in wood framing.
(DSUMF, No. 2.) Defendant hired an independent contractor, Davis Development
Company, Inc. (“Davis”) to perform wood framing on the site. (DSUMF, No. 3.) At
the time of the accident, Plaintiff was working as an employee of Davis.
(DSUMF, Nos. 7-8.)
These
undisputed facts establish that Plaintiff’s claims against Defendant fall
within the scope of the Privette doctrine. Plaintiff concedes as much but
argues that this case falls within either the retained control (Hooker)
exception and/or the concealed hazard (Kinsman) exception to Privette.
(Opp. at p. 8.) The Court now turns to these exceptions. 
Retained
Control
For the Hooker
exception to apply, the hirer or general contractor must (1) retain control
over the subcontractor’s work; (2) actually exercise that control; and (3) do
so in a manner that affirmatively contributes to the employee’s injury. (Sandoval,
supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 274.) The issue is not whether the hirer had a
contractual or other abstract or general right of control or whether the hirer
maintained a general level of supervision over safety on the site. Nor is it
sufficient to show that the hirer allowed an unsafe condition to persist on the
worksite. Rather, this exception only applies when the hirer becomes actively
involved in the work or interferes with the subcontractor’s ability to do the
work as the subcontractor sees fit. (Id., at p. 276; see also, e.g., Gonzalez,
supra, 12 Cal.5th at p. 42; Tverberg, supra, 202 Cal.App.4th at pp.
1446-1448.)
Here,
Plaintiff points out that Defendant’s employee Jonathan Torres was the project
safety engineer; he was at the job site almost daily, he conducted safety
orientations, and his role was to promote safety culture. (Plaintiff’s
Statement of Additional Material Facts [“PSAMF”], Nos. 1-3.) Torres testified
that it was “more than likely” that he walked through the area in which
Plaintiff fell within “a couple of days or so” prior to the accident. (PSAMF,
No. 15; Miles Decl., Exh. 3 [Torres Depo.], at 73:6-19.)
Prior to
the accident, Defendant Covi had been conducting some concrete work in the area
in which Plaintiff fell. Covi’s work in that area ended on approximately
January 18, about two weeks before the accident. (PSAMF, No. 20.) Covi left a
hole in Level 3, in Section C; viewing the evidence in the light most favorable
to the non-moving party, there were no guardrails around the hole, but the hole
was protected by shoring and decking. (PSAMF, Nos. 12, 20-22.) The purpose of
the hole was for a ventilation shaft for the restaurant kitchen. (Miles Decl.,
Exh. 2 [Garcia Depo.], at 28:19-24.)
Covi
removed the shoring and decking on February 1, the day before the accident.
(PSAMF, No. 23.) At that point, with the shoring and decking removed, there was
no fall protection at the hole. (PSAMF. Nos. 23-24.)
Ramon
Garcia was the foreman for Covi at the project. (PSAMF, No. 19.) Mr. Garcia
explained that the purpose of the shoring and decking is to provide “a platform
to pour wet concrete, which means to build the floor for that level.” (Miles
Decl., Exh. 2 [Garcia Depo.], at 26:23-27:8.) Mr. Garcia testified that the
shoring and decking was removed because he “had the okay from the GC that they
have the test results of the compression, it’s okay to start removing the
shoring.” (Id., at 26:16-22.)
Covi
removed the decking and shoring from below, on the second floor. (Id.,
at 28:3-8.) By that time, February 1, Davis was working on Level 3, in Section
3, doing the framing work. (Id., at 28:10-18.) No other subcontractor
was working in that area. (Torres Depo., at 74:5-12.)
On a
construction site, there are sometimes conflicts between the subcontractors in
the different trades. Covi complained that other subcontractors were leaving
trash and debris in the shaft areas. (PSAMF, No. 17.) Defendant’s project
safety engineer Torres was aware of this. (PSAMF, No. 16.) Debris in the shafts
was an issue for Covi as it removed shoring from below. (PSAMF, No. 18.)
The
Court has carefully reviewed all of the evidence and argument presented by both
sides. None of this evidence creates a triable issue of fact with regard to
retained control. There is simply no evidence from which a trier of fact could
draw a reasonable inference that Defendant directed Covi or Davis regarding how
to perform their work or otherwise interfered with their ability to do their
job in the manner that each subcontractor thought was appropriate. Rather,
Defendant did what general contractors often do on complicated job sites:
Defendant provided general safety orientations, encouraged safety culture,
coordinated the scheduling and work of the various subcontractors (including
through periodic meetings), and provided approvals when requested by subcontractors.
Defendant did not tell Covi (or Davis) how to do their work; rather, at most,
Defendant granted the request of Covi “to start removing the shoring.” (Garcia
Depo., at 26:16-22.)
On this
record, as a matter of law the retained control exception to the Privette
doctrine does not apply.
Concealed
Hazard
Under the Privette
doctrine, there is a strong presumption that the general contractor delegates
to the subcontractor “the responsibility to ensure that the worksite is safe.”
(Acosta, supra, 96 Cal.App.5th at p. 650.) To overcome that presumption,
and to hold the general contractor responsible under the concealed hazard
exception, there must be a showing, as noted above, (1) that the general
contractor knew, or reasonably should have known, of a concealed, preexisting
hazardous condition on the premises; (2) that the subcontractor did not know about,
and could not have reasonably ascertained, the hazard; and (3) that the general
contractor did not warn the subcontractor. (Kinsman, supra, 37 Cal.4th
at p. 675.) 
Here, when Covi
removed the shoring and the decking, there was a hazard: a hole that (viewing
the evidence in the light most favorable to the non-moving party) did not have
any guardrails. But under the case law, there is a strong presumption that it
was the responsibility of Davis – the subcontractor who was working in this
area and who employed Plaintiff – to provide a safe working environment for
Plaintiff and the other employees. That includes the affirmative duty to
inspect the worksite, identify potential safety hazards (including holes for
shafts), and address such hazards. (See Gonzalez, supra, 12 Cal.5th at
p. 55; Acosta, supra, 96 Cal.App.5th at pp. 661-662.) “When a person or
organization hires an independent contractor, the hirer presumptively delegates
to the contractor the responsibility to do the work safely.” (Sandoval,
supra, at p. 269.) 
There is no
evidence in the summary judgment record that would support a reasonable
inference that Defendant had actual or constructive knowledge of a concealed
hazard that David did not know about and could not reasonably ascertain. At
most, Defendant’s project safety engineer Torres had
walked through the area a “couple of days” before the accident. (PSAMF, No.
15.) But if the hazard was or should have been apparent to Torres during a walk
through, then it was or should have been more apparent to Davis, which had the primary
responsibility for ensuring the safety of this area of the worksite and had the
affirmative duty to inspect the area for safety issues. Similarly, the issue of
debris in the shafts was discussed at least twice at the weekly meetings that
were held with a representative of each subcontractor (including Davis) present.
(DSUMF, No. 18; Torres Decl., ¶ 14 & Exh. 1.) If, as Plaintiff contends, the
debris complaints were sufficient to put Torres (and therefore Defendant) on
notice of a hazardous condition, then Davis was equally on notice. There is
simply nothing in the record that would support an inference that Defendant
knew or should have known about a safety issue that was concealed or otherwise not
known to Davis and that Davis could not have reasonably ascertained in discharging
its duty to inspect its area of the worksite for safety issues.
Accordingly,
the Court concludes that there are no triable issues of material fact with
regard to the Privette doctrine. On the undisputed facts, and drawing
all inferences in favor of the nonmoving party, neither the retained control
exception nor the concealed hazard exception applies. As a matter of law,
Defendant owed no duty to Plaintiff and breached no duty to him. Defendant is therefore
entitled to judgment on the causes of action asserted against Defendant in the
Complaint.
The
Court need not reach, and does not reach, Defendant’s other arguments.  
Conclusion
The
Court GRANTS the motion for summary judgment of Defendant Ava Arts District, L.P.
Moving
Party is to give notice.