 Case Number:  22STCV18686    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for Plaintiff Terrell
Lee, filed by Plaintiff’s Counsel Shaun J. Bauman, Nareh S. Terzian, Jeffrey R.
Billings, and Mitchell P. Beck.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On June
8, 2022, Plaintiffs Brandon Dalton and Terrell Lee filed a complaint against Defendants
Ricardo Reta, Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department, County of Los Angeles, and
Does 1 through 100, alleging claims for personal injuries arising out of an
alleged vehicle accident on July 5, 2020.
 
On November
29, 2023, the Court granted the motion for counsel to be relieved as to
Plaintiff Terrell Lee. The order was effective upon proof of service of the
signed order on Lee; proof of service was not filed with the Court until March 4,
2024. Further, the Law Offices of Larry H. Parker were omitted from this
motion. (See Terzian Decl., ¶ 14.)
 
On March 19,
2024, Shaun J. Bauman, Nareh S. Terzian, Jeffrey R.
Billings, and Mitchell P. Beck (collectively “Counsel”) filed a motion
to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Terrell Lee. No opposition has been
filed. 
Legal
Standard
The court may order that an attorney be changed or
substituted at any time before or after judgment or final determination upon
request by either client or attorney and after notice from one to the other.
(Code of Civ. Proc., § 284(b).) An attorney is permitted to withdraw where
conflicts between the attorney and client make it unreasonable to continue the
representation. (See Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct 3-700(C)(1).) “The
determination whether to grant or deny a motion to withdraw as counsel lies
within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v.
Superior Court (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.)   
 
An application to be relieved as counsel must be made on
Judicial Counsel Form MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion) (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362(a)), MC-052 (Declaration) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.136(c)), and MC-053 (Proposed Order) (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e)).   
 
Further, the requisite forms must be served on the client
and all other parties who have appeared in the case. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362(d).) The court may delay effective date of the order relieving
counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the client has
been filed with the court. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(e).) 
 
Discussion
Counsel has
filed the Notice, Declaration, and Order to be Relieved as Counsel. On the
Declaration, Counsel states there has been a breakdown in communication of the
attorney-client relationship. Counsel has confirmed Plaintiff Lee’s last known address
by sending documents to by mail with return receipt requested; Counsel sends
this motion to three different addresses for Plaintiff Lee. 
The Order
includes all future hearing dates, and the motion and supporting papers have
been served on all parties in this matter.
The Court finds
Counsel has established good cause to be relieved due to the breakdown of the
attorney-client relationship.  All
substantive and procedural requirements are satisfied.
Accordingly, the
motion is GRANTED.
Conclusion
The motion to be
relieved as counsel is GRANTED. 
The order is
effective upon filing with the Court of a proof of service showing service of
the signed order (not just the minute order) on Plaintiff Lee.
Moving counsel
to give notice.