 Case Number:  21STCV40955    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  29 Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint filed by Plaintiff Hillary
Thorogood.
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On November 5, 2021, Plaintiff
Hillary Thorogood (“Plaintiff”) filed her complaint against PV Holding Corp., Yujie
Wang, and Does 1 to 50 for negligence/negligence per se cause of action arising
from an automobile accident occurring November 28, 2019.
 
On March 19, 2024, the Court granted
Defendant PV Holding Corp.’s motion for summary judgment.
 
On March 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
motion for leave to file the First Amended Complaint. No opposition has been
filed.
 
Legal
Standard
 
CCP §
472(a) provides “[a] party may amend its pleading once without leave of the
court at any time before the answer, demurrer, or motion to strike is filed, or
after a demurrer or motion to strike is filed but before the demurrer or motion
to strike is heard if the amended pleading is filed and served no later than
the date for filing an opposition to the demurrer or motion to strike.”
 
CCP §
473(a)(1) provides, in relevant part: 
“The court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be
proper, allow a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking
out the name of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party,
or a mistake in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time
for answer or demurrer.  The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”  
 
“This
discretion should be exercised liberally in favor of amendments, for judicial
policy favors resolution of all disputed matters in the same lawsuit.”  (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1047.) 
Ordinarily, the court will not consider the validity of the proposed
amended pleading in ruling on a motion for leave since grounds for a demurrer
or motion to strike are premature.  The
court, however, does have discretion to deny leave to amend where a proposed
amendment fails to state a valid cause of action as a matter of law and the
defect cannot be cured by further amendment. 
(See California Casualty General Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985)
173 Cal.App.3d 274, 281, overruled on other grounds by Kransco v. American
Empire Surplus Lines Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.) 
 
Under
CRC Rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading shall (1) include a copy of
the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to
differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments; (2) state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located;
and (3) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous
pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
additional allegations are located.  
 
Under
CRC Rule 3.1324(b), a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must
specify (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and
proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and (4) the reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.  
 
Even if
a good amendment is proposed in proper form, a long, unwarranted and unexcused
delay in presenting it may be a good reason for denial.  In most cases, the factors for timeliness
are: (1) lack of diligence in discovering the facts or in offering the
amendment after knowledge of them; and (2) the effect of the delay on the
adverse party.  If the party seeking the
amendment has been dilatory, and the delay has prejudiced the opposing party,
the judge has discretion to deny leave to amend.  (Hirsa v. Superior Court (1981) 118
Cal.App.3d 486, 490.)  Prejudice exists
where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of
critical evidence, or added costs of preparation such as an increased burden of
discovery.  (Magpali v. Farmers Group,
Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488.) 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff
requests leave to amend their complaint to add the cause of action of
declaratory relief against Plaintiff’s UIM Insurance Carrer for the Plaintiff
to move to arbitration with the carrier. (Basharaheel Decl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff
contends there is a genuine issue between Plaintiff and her UIM Insurance Carrier.
(Id., ¶ 5.) 
 
Plaintiff
attaches a redline version of the First Amended Complaint adding Defendant the
Traveler’s Companies, Inc. and Mobilitas Insurance Company of Arizona as well
as the declaratory cause of action. (Exh. A; see also Exh. B, non-redline First
Amended Complaint.) 
 
The
Court finds Plaintiff has established good cause for leave to amend. The motion
satisfies all substantive and procedural requirements.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to amend is GRANTED. 
 
Conclusion
 
The Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion for leave to amend.
 
The Court
GRANTS LEAVE to Plaintiff to file the amended complaint attached to the motion within
10 days of the hearing.
 
Moving
Party is to give notice.