  Case Number:  24STCV05498    Hearing Date:   January 24, 2025    Dept:  17 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



NAIDELIN
  ALVARADO, et al.
                           
         vs.
 
LUPE
  ANDRADE POWELL, et al. 
                                         


 Case No.: 
  24STCV05498
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  January 24, 2024



 
 
Defendants’
motion to compel deposition is GRANTED, with both non-appearing Plaintiffs to
produce a list of 3 available deposition dates within 10 days of entry of this
order. Non-appearing Plaintiffs are sanctioned, jointly and severally with
counsel, $2,966.50 in sanctions for costs and fees incurred by their
non-appearances payable within 20 days.
 
            On
3/5/2024, Plaintiffs Naidelin Alvarado, Marivel Benitez, and Luis Enrique
Alvarado (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed suit against Lupe Andrade Powell,
Lupe Andrade Powell, and Andrade 1, Separate Prop Trust (collectively,
Defendants), alleging: (1) breach of implied warranty; (2) breach of statutory
warranty of habitability; (3) breach of covenant of quiet enjoyment; (4)
negligence; (5) violation of Civil Code section 1942.4; (6) private nuisance;
(7) violation of anti-harassment ordinance; and (8) unfair competition.  
 
            On
11/6/2024, Defendants moved to compel the depositions of Marivel Benitez and
Luis Enrique Alvarado.
 
Discussion 
 
            It
is undisputed that Defendants are entitled to depose Plaintiffs Marivel Benitez
and Luis Enrique Alvarado (collectively, non-appearing Plaintiffs). Rather, the
dispute is over the facts leading up to 10/3/2024, when non-appearing
Plaintiffs failed to appear for deposition. 
 
            Under
Defendants’ version of events, Plaintiff Naidelin Alvardo, the third Plaintiff
in this action, appeared for and completed her deposition. At the time, non-appearing
Plaintiffs were observed arriving at defense counsel’s office and were observed
conferring with their counsel, Roy Diaz. However, at 2 pm that day, Plaintiffs’
counsel Roy Diaz advised defense counsel that he would not be producing his
clients for deposition. According to Defendants, he gave no explanation or
rationale for failing to produce his clients who were in the office.
 
            In
opposition, non-appearing Plaintiffs contend that the parties discussed in
great detail the good-cause requiring a temporary stay on proceeding with the
depositions of Marivel Alvarado and Luis Alvarado. (Diaz Decl, ¶¶ 3-4, Opp., 2:
11-12.) 
 
            However,
the Court finds it unnecessary to engage in a battle of the facts. It is clear
that non-appearing Plaintiffs did not appear for deposition, and that costs and
fees were incurred by the non-appearance.[1]
Non-appearing Plaintiffs have not persuasively shown that they could not have
sought a stay in the deposition at an earlier time, and thus good cause for the
non-appearance as it occurred has not been established. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion to compel deposition is granted, with both
non-appearing Plaintiffs to produce a list of 3 available deposition dates
within 10 days of entry of this order. Both non-appearing Plaintiffs are
sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel, $1,950 for attorneys fees, $60
for the cost of filing the subject motion, $556.50 in court reporter fees and
$400.00 in interpreter fees for a total
of $2,966.50. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2025
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this tentative
as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 


