 Case Number:  23STCV23470    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


December
  5, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV23470




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTIES


Plaintiff
  R&B Medical Group, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant
  Health Access for All Inc.



 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff R&B
Medical Group, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendant Health Access for All, Inc. (“Defendant”)
for breach of contract.  Plaintiff
alleges it provided laboratory testing and related services for Defendant, and Defendant
has failed to pay $42,000 for services rendered.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 7-10.)  
Plaintiff moves
for summary judgment on the complaint, or, in the alternative, summary
adjudication of the causes of action therein. However, Plaintiff has not
“repeated, verbatim, in the separate statement of undisputed material facts”
each issue on which Plaintiff seeks summary adjudication nor identified “each
supporting material fact claimed to be without dispute with respect to” each
issue.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(b),
(d).)  Accordingly, the Court denies the
motion for summary adjudication as procedurally improper.  “There is little flexibility in the
procedural imperatives of [Code of Civil Procedure section 437c], and the
issues raised by a motion for summary judgment (or summary adjudication) are
pure questions of law.  As a result,
section 437c is unforgiving; a failure to comply with any one of its myriad
requirements is likely to be fatal to the offending party.”  (Brantley v. Pisaro (1996) 42
Cal.App.4th 1591, 1607.)  
The Court
considers the motion as a motion for summary judgment only.  Defendant opposes the motion.
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden
of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material
fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to
find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his
own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
When the plaintiff
seeks summary judgment, the plaintiff bears the burden to produce admissible
evidence on each element of every cause of action at issue.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)  
EVIDENCE
            Defendant’s
objections to Exhibit K to the declaration of Michael K. Murray and Exhibit R
to the declaration of Sheila Busheri are sustained.  Defendant’s other evidentiary objections are
overruled.
DISCUSSION
First Cause of Action: Breach of
Contract
            To
prevail on the claim for breach of contract, Plaintiff must show Plaintiff and
Defendant entered into a contract; Plaintiff performed pursuant to the terms of
that contract; Defendant breached the contract; and Plaintiff sustained damages
because of Defendant’s breach.  (Wall
Street Network, Ltd. v. N. Y. Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171,
1178.)  
            In
support of its motion. Plaintiff has submitted the declaration of Sheila
Busheri (“Busheri”), its chief executive officer, who authenticates the Laboratory
Services Agreement  into which the
parties entered.  (Declaration of Sheila
Busheri, ¶ 5.)  The document reveals Plaintiff
and Defendant agreed, if Defendant informed Plaintiff a third party was
responsible for payment for laboratory services, Defendant would provide
Plaintiff “with all necessary billing information,” and Plaintiff would “bill
the patient or other responsible party . . . for Services performed . . .
.”  (Busheri Decl., Exhibit A, sections 6.B
& C, .)  The parties also agreed, if
Plaintiff could not obtain payment from responsible parties because Defendant had
failed to provide the necessary information, Defendant would pay Plaintiff for
the laboratory services.  (Id., Exhibit
A, section 6.F. )  
In her
declaration, Busheri avers Defendant failed to pay $41,900 on outstanding
invoices.  (Busheri Decl., ¶ 12.)  However, Busheri’s testimony fails to show Defendant
breached the agreement.  Busheri only
states, “The hundreds of requisitions associated with each of the outstanding
tests and amounts owed have either no 3rd party billing information, indicates ‘pending
eligibility’ or similar language or is lacking the information required by the
terms of the Agreement to allow [Plaintiff] to bill a third party.”  (Ibid.)   Busheri’s
testimony does not demonstrate Defendant failed to provide Plaintiff with
information sufficient to permit Plaintiff to bill the responsible parties for
each outstanding test, such that Defendant is responsible for the outstanding
amounts.  Therefore, Plaintiff has failed
to meet its burden of showing Plaintiff will prevail on its cause of action for
breach of contract.  
Given the Court’s
disposition Plaintiff has not satisfied its burden on summary judgment regarding
the breach of contract claim, the Court need not address the common counts.  Nonetheless, because Plaintiff offers the same
contentions regarding its entitlement to summary judgment regarding the common counts
as it does for the breach of contract claim, Plaintiff fails to show it is
entitled to prevail on those counts.   
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment, or,
in the alternative, summary adjudication is denied.
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of the
Court’s order and to file proof of service of same.