 Case Number:  24STCV02667    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


December 5, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24STCV02667




MOTIONS


Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant General Motors, Inc.




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiffs Chase Love and Steve Love



 
MOTION
Plaintiffs Chase
Love and Steve Love (“Plaintiffs”) allege Plaintiffs leased a defective vehicle
from Defendant General Motors, Inc. (“Defendant”).  Defendant demurs to the first and second causes
of action in Plaintiffs’ first amended complaint.  Defendant also moves to strike portions of
the first amended complaint.  Plaintiffs oppose
the motions.  
ANALYSIS
“It is black
letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the
allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal construction means that
the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
Any party, within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to
strike the whole pleading or any part thereof. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322,
subd. (b).)  On a motion to strike, the
court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.)
First Cause of Action:  Fraud by Concealment  
Plaintiffs must
allege fraud with particularity.  “This
means: (1) general pleading of the legal conclusion of fraud is insufficient;
and (2) every element of the cause of action for fraud must be alleged in full,
factually and specifically, and the policy of liberal construction of pleading
will not usually be invoked to sustain a pleading that is defective in any
material respect.”  (Wilhelm v. Pray, Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186
Cal.App.3d 1324, 1331.)  There are four
circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable
fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the
plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not
known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively conceals a material
fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes partial
representations but also suppresses some material facts.”  (LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52
Cal.App.4th 326, 336, internal quotations and citations omitted.)  
In the instant
case, Plaintiffs allege Defendant “knowingly concealed, suppressed and/or
omitted material facts including the presence of the defective high voltage
battery pack in the Vehicle which was present at the time of Plaintiff[s’]
lease of the Vehicle.”  (First Amended Complaint,
¶ 32.)  In the amended complaint Plaintiffs
have added allegations to the effect “[s]pecifically, GM intentionally
concealed the findings of its internal investigations regarding the high
propensity of the battery in Chevrolet Bolt vehicles to catch fire.  GM had actual knowledge of the high chance of
the Chevrolet Bolt batteries to catch fire through customer complaints,
internal investigations, and internal testing, but did not [sic] nothing
to stop the production and sale of  the
Chevrolet Bolt vehicles.  Moreover, GM
intentionally concealed the battery’s high propensity to catch fire from all of
its Chevrolet Bolt publications available to the public including, but not
limited to, the advertisements, owner’s manuals, warranty manuals, and other
vehicle brochures in order to sell more vehicles.”  (Ibid.)  Plaintiffs continue to allege Defendant “knew
(at the time of lease and thereafter) that the Vehicle contained the battery
defect, concealed the defect, and never intended to replace the battery defect
during the relevant warranty periods. To date, GM has not provided Plaintiff[s]
with a repair or remedy that will eliminate the battery defect.”  (Id., ¶ 34.)  
The Court concludes
these allegations suffice for pleading 
purposes.  Therefore, the Court overrules
the demurrer to the first cause of action.
Second Cause of Action:
Violation Business and Professions Code Section 17200
Plaintiffs must
allege a claim under Business and Professions Code section 17200 “with
reasonable particularity . . . .” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 619.)  In this
regard, Plaintiffs continue to allege, as they did in the initial complaint,  Defendant’s “conduct is unfair because it
violated California’s public policy, including that legislatively declared in
the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, which requires a manufacturer to ensure
that goods it places on the market are fit for their ordinary and intended
purposes.  The defect impedes safe and
reliable driving of the Vehicle” (First Amended Complaint, ¶ 42); “GM’s fraudulent
acts include knowingly and intentionally concealing from Plaintiff[s] the existence
of the defect and falsely marketing and misrepresenting the Vehicle as being
functional and not possessing a defect that impedes safe and reliable driving”
(id., at ¶ 45); and “GM’s misrepresentations and omissions alleged
herein caused Plaintiff[s] to lease the Vehicle” (id., at ¶ 46).  
As such, Plaintiffs’
allegations remain insufficiently specific, and they must allege with greater
specificity the actions by Defendant they contend violated Business and
Professions Code section 17200.  
Punitive Damages Claim
Defendant moves to
strike the prayer for punitive damages.  Plaintiffs
may recover civil penalties, not punitive damages, for violations of the
Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.  (See
Civ. Code, § 1794, subd. (c) [if buyer of consumer goods establishes a failure
to comply with any warranty was willful, judgment may include a civil penalty
not to exceed two times the amount of actual damages].)  As for Plaintiffs’ claim for punitive damages
tied to the first cause of action, Plaintiffs fail to allege specific facts showing Plaintiff acted with oppression,
fraud, or malice, as required by Civil Code section 3294, when they simply
state in conclusory fashion Defendant’s conduct was “oppressive, fraudulent,
and/or malicious,” and its employees’ acts “were authorized or ratified by an
officer, director, and/or managing agent of GM.”  (First Amended Complaint, ¶ 39.)  Therefore, Defendants must amend their claim for punitive damages.  
As noted above, the Court has already
provided Plaintiffs with an opportunity to state claims for fraud, violation of
Business and Professions Code section 17200, and punitive damages.  Although Plaintiffs allegations concerning their
second cause of action and for punitive damages are still lacking, the Court
will provide Plaintiffs with one last opportunity to amend to sufficiently allege
those claims.  
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ first cause of action is overruled. The demurrer as to
the second cause of action is sustained with leave to further amend.  Plaintiffs are also afforded an opportunity to
amend the pleading concerning their request for punitive damages.  Plaintiffs are to file a further amended
complaint in keeping with the Court’s order within 20 days. 
Defendant is
ordered to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 
 