Here is the summary of the tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23STCV06998
Plaintiff's Name: Jose Villanueva and Reyna Luviano
Defendant's Name: Glendale Dodge, LLC dba Glendale Dodge Chrysler Jeep and FCA US LLC
People-Names: Jose Villanueva, Reyna Luviano
Company-Names: Glendale Dodge, LLC, FCA US LLC
Places: California
Dates: June 29, 2017, March 6, 2024
Events: Warranty contract, repairs, delivery of Subject Vehicle
Money: Civil penalty up to twice the amount of actual damages
Intentions: To comply with the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
Facts: 2017 Dodge Challenger vehicle had defects and nonconformities, Plaintiffs delivered the vehicle to authorized repair facility, FCA failed to replace the vehicle or make restitution
Disputes: FCA's willful failure to comply with the Song-Beverly Act
Acts: FCA's objections to special interrogatories and requests for production
Agreements: Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310
Case Citations: Coy v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221; Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255
Statutes: Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
Roles: Judge, Plaintiffs, Defendants
Significant Statements:
* FCA must provide further responses to special interrogatories 45-48 within 30 days
* The special interrogatories are probative of whether FCA had reason to know that its 2017 Dodge Challenger vehicles were experiencing an abnormally high number of warranty repairs
* FCA failed to carry the burden of showing that the special interrogatories are not relevant to the case
* The requests for production numbers 45 and 46 are relevant to the issue whether FCA willfully violated the Song-Beverly Act
* FCA failed to carry the burden of justifying its objections to the requests for production
* Sanctions against FCA are unwarranted
```

And here is the English text summarizing the judge's tentative ruling:

The judge has granted the plaintiffs' motions to compel further responses to special interrogatories 45-48 and requests for production numbers 45 and 46. The special interrogatories seek information about the anticipated and actual number of repairs for the 2017 Dodge Challenger vehicles, which is relevant to the issue of whether FCA had reason to know that its vehicles were experiencing an abnormally high number of warranty repairs. The judge disagrees with FCA's objections to the special interrogatories, finding that they are not vague, ambiguous, or overbroad. The requests for production numbers 45 and 46 seek documents evidencing complaints by owners of 2017 Dodge Challenger vehicles and warranty repairs to the components of those vehicles. The judge finds that these requests are relevant to the issue of whether FCA willfully violated the Song-Beverly Act and that FCA failed to carry the burden of justifying its objections to the requests. The judge has ordered FCA to provide further responses to the special interrogatories and requests for production within 30 days. The judge has also denied the plaintiffs' request for sanctions against FCA, finding that FCA's position was substantially justified.