 Case Number:  23STCV24094    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  57  
Plaintiff Louis Hook brought a
wrongful termination action against Defendants Azul Vision Management Services,
L.P., Azul Vision, Inc. (“AVI”) and California Eye Management Services, L.P. (“CEMS”)
(collectively, “Defendants”). Hook alleges, inter alia, that Defendants
terminated him in retaliation for his efforts resisting and complaining about
their unlawful discrimination based on his race and age.  Hook is a black man and was at all relevant
times well over 40 years of age. 
 
Pending
before the Court is the motion AVI and CEMS for an order compelling Hook to
appear for his forthcoming deposition that is scheduled for March 20, 2024.  AVI and CEMS also request in the motion monetary
sanctions in the amount of $17,525 against Hook and his counsel, Andrew Levine
and Aaron Fairchild.  In opposing the
motion, Hook argues that sanctions should be imposed against AVI and CEMS.   The Court is denying the motion of AVI and
CEMS.  It is also denying Hook’s request
for the imposition of sanctions against AVI and CEMS.
 
The
relevant background is as follows.   On
December 11, 2023, AVI and CEMS served a “Notice of Deposition of Plaintiff
Louis Hook,” noticing the deposition for January 10, 2024. (Mackie Decl., ¶ 2,
Ex. A.)  At Hook’s request, AVI and CEMS
rescheduled the deposition to February 8, 2024, for which they served an
“Amended Notice of Deposition of Plaintiff Louis Hook and Request for
Production of Documents” on January 3, 2024. (Id., ¶ 3, Ex. B; Levine Decl., ¶ 11.)
 Subsequently, the parties became
embroiled in a dispute over the existence and purported service of the third
defendant in this action, Azul Vision Management Services, L.P.  On February 7, 2024, in response to counsel
for Hook’s email that he intended to move for a protective order seeking a stay
of Hook’s deposition the following morning, AVI and CEMS canceled the
deposition and served a “Second Amended Notice of Deposition of Plaintiff Louis
Hook and Request for Production of Documents.” (Levine Decl., ¶¶ 20-22, Ex. 5;
Mackie Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. D.)  The second
amended notice rescheduled the deposition to March 20, 2024. (Ibid.)
 
The Civil Discovery Act’s provisions
regarding compelling a party’s attendance at a deposition state as follows: “If,
after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action . . . without
having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for
examination, . . . , or to produce for inspection any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the
party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s
attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)   Where the deponent fails to appear
or produce documents, the motion need only be accompanied by “a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.” (Id., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).) 
 
In
the Court’s view, those provisions are inapplicable here.   Hook did not fail to appear at the February
8, 2024 deposition.  Rather, AVI and CEMS
cancelled that deposition. The deposition has been rescheduled  for March 20, 2024.  Because March 20, 2024 is still two weeks
away, Hook has yet to fail to appear for the deposition scheduled for that day,
and no certificate of nonappearance  for
that deposition has been issued.  Because
there has yet to be a failure of Hook to appear at a deposition, the Court is
denying the motion of AVI and CEMS to compel him to appear at the March 20,
2024 deposition.  The denial of  the motion is without prejudice.
 
The
Court is denying Hook’s request for the imposition of sanctions against AVI and
CEMS for filing the motion.  While the
Court has concluded that the motion of AVI and CEMS is premature, the Court
understands why AVI and CEMS filed the motion. 
Put simply, Hook’s actions that led AVI and CEMS to cancel the February
8, 2024 deposition do raise concerns.
 
The
Court is troubled by the rancor in the parties’ briefs in connection with the
motion.  The Court directs the parties to
tone it down.