  Case Number:  23STCV06998    Hearing Date:   March 6, 2024    Dept:  57  
Plaintiffs Jose Villanueva and Reyna
Luviano brought an action under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act
(“Song-Beverly Act”) against Defendants Glendale Dodge, LLC dba Glendale Dodge
Chrysler Jeep (“Glendale Dodge”) and FCA US LLC (“FCA”).   Plaintiffs
allege that (1) on June 29, 2017, they entered into a warranty contract with
FCA regarding a 2017 Dodge Challenger (“Subject Vehicle”) manufactured by FCA and
sold by Glendale Dodge; (2) within the express warranty period, the Subject
Vehicle had defects and nonconformities to the warranty, including electrical,
interior, exterior and engine problems; and (3) Plaintiffs delivered the
Subject Vehicle to an authorized FCA repair facility for repair, which was unable
to conform the Subject Vehicle to the warranty after a reasonable number of
attempts.  Plaintiffs further allege that
FCA failed to replace the Subject Vehicle or make restitution under the
Song-Beverly Act.  Plaintiffs seek, inter
alia, a civil penalty of up to twice the amount of actual damages for FCA’s
willful failure to comply with its obligations under the Song-Beverly Act. 
Pending  before the Court are two discovery motions
that Plaintiffs filed.  One motion seeks
an order  compelling FCA to provide further
responses to Plaintiffs’ first set of Special Interrogatories, numbers
45-48.  The other motion seeks an order
compelling FCA to provide further responses to requests for production numbers
45 and 46. Plaintiffs also seek monetary sanctions against FCA in both
motions.   Having considered the parties’
arguments, the Court is granting the motions to the extent they seek an order
compelling further responses but denying the motions to the extent they seek
sanctions.  FCA must provide further the
further responses that Plaintiffs are seeking within 30 days of this order.
 SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES
 The
special interrogatories that are the subject of the Plaintiffs’ motion, numbers
45-48, seek the following information:
             45.        
At
the time of release for the 2017 Dodge CHALLENGER vehicles, state your
anticipated range for repairs per thousand vehicles sold (R/1000).
46.        
State
the repairs per thousand vehicles sold (R/1000) for 2017 Dodge CHALLENGER
vehicles.
47.        
Identify
in order the five symptoms with the highest repairs per thousand (R/1000) for
2017 Dodge CHALLENGER vehicles, and the corresponding repairs per thousand.
48.        
Identify
in order the five components with the highest repairs per thousand (R/1000) for
2017 Dodge CHALLENGER vehicles, and the corresponding repairs per thousand. 
  To
each of these interrogatories, FCA responded with following objections: "FCA US objects
because this interrogatory seeks information that is not relevant to the
subject matter of this litigation and is therefore not reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. . . . FCA US further objects that
this interrogatory is vague, ambiguous, and overbroad; as a result, it is
harassing, oppressive, and burdensome."         The burden is on FCA as the
responding party to establish facts necessary to justify its objections. (Coy
v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220-221; Fairmont Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)  In the Court’s view, FCA has failed to carry
that burden.
Relevance         
FCA argues that interrogatories
45-48 “bear no relevance to . . . whether Plaintiffs’ vehicle suffered a
non-conformity and, if so, whether FCA . . . failed to conform the vehicle to
warranty within a reasonable number of repair attempts. And, if the failure to
conform the vehicle to warranty substantially impaired the vehicle’s use, value
or safety. Nothing else is in issue.” (Opposition, p. 3.)  
 The Court disagrees.   In the Court’s view, special  interrogatories 45-48 are probative of whether
FCA had reason to know that its 2017 Dodge Challenger vehicles were
experiencing an abnormally high number of warranty repairs regarding the same
problems that Plaintiff experienced with the Subject Vehicle.  As Plaintiffs correctly observe,  not only would this information be relevant to
demonstrating that a defect likely existed in the Subject Vehicle, but it would
also show that FCA failed to provide remedy to Plaintiffs even though it knew
that vehicles of the same make model, and year were suffering from widespread
warranty problems and thus evinces a willful violation of the Song-Beverly Act
for which a civil penalty is warranted.
 Overbreadth and AmbiguityThe Court finds that the special
interrogatories are appropriately tailored and not overbroad.  Nor are the special interrogatories ambiguous
-- they are clear and capable of being responded to.
Undue Burden
 FCA also objected on the ground that
interrogatories 45-48 are “oppressive” and “burdensome.”  The showing required for an objection based on
an asserted burden to be sustained is “detailed evidence showing precisely how
much work is required to answer”; it is not enough that the questions will
require a lot of work to answer. (Weil & Brown, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil
Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group 2023) ¶¶ 8:1095-8:1097.)  FCA failed to carry that burden.  Its contention that “[t]here are hundreds of
agents that process Song Beverly claims for the State of California and each
one operates on a case-by-case basis” is conclusory and insufficient.
 REQUESTS FOR PRODUCTION
Plaintiffs move for an order
compelling FCA’s further responses to their first set of Requests for
Production (“RFP”) on the ground that FCA has not provided responses to RFP
numbers 45 and 46 compliant with Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310. Number
45 seeks documents evidencing complaints by owners of 2017 Dodge Challenger
vehicles that are similar to any of Plaintiffs’ complaints for which they
presented their Subject Vehicle to FCA or its authorized repair facilities
during the warranty period. Number 46 seeks documents evidencing warranty
repairs to any of the components of 2017 Dodge Challenger vehicles that FCA’s authorized
repair facilities performed.
Plaintiffs bear the burden of showing
good cause for the production of the documents in question.  The Court concludes that Plaintiffs have
carried that burden.. Specifically, the documents sought in RFP numbers 45 and
46 are relevant to the issue whether FCA willfully violated the Song-Beverly
Act in the face of knowledge of similar complaints and warranty repairs.  The burden thus shifts to FCA to justify its
objections to the RFPs.  The Court
concludes that FCA failed to carry that burden. Contrary to FCA’s assertion,
the RFPs are not vague, ambiguous, or overly broad.  
The information to be produced in
response to RFPs 45 and 46 shall be limited to California owners’ complaints
and warranty repairs performed in California. 
 SANCTIONS
 While the Court disagreed with FCA’s
position in connection with the discovery requests that were the subject of
Plaintiffs’ motions, the Court has determined that FCA’s position was
substantially justified. For that
reason, sanctions against FCA are unwarranted.