 Case Number:  23STCV14431    Hearing Date:   February 22, 2024    Dept:  26  
 
 
Superior
Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
Department 26
 



THE COUNCIL OF KOREAN CHURCHES IN
  SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
  
 
YONG JUN KIM; YONG BONG CHOI;
  PAUL JUNG, et al.
                        Defendant.


 
  Case No.: 
  23STCV14431
 
  Hearing Date:  February 22, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER TO THE COMPLAINT
 



 
Procedural
Background
            On June 21, 2023, Plaintiff the
Council of Korean Churches in Southern California (“Plaintiff” or “KCSC”) filed
the instant action against Defendants Yong Jun Kim (“YJK”), Yong Bong Choe
(erroneously sued as Yong Bong Choi) (“Choe”), and Paul Jung (“Jung”)
(collectively “Defendants”).  The
complaint asserts three causes of action for (1) Permanent Injunction, (2) Declaratory
Relief [CCP § 1060], and (3) Ultra Vires [Corp. Code § 9141(a)].
            On August 14, 2023, Defendants filed
a demurrer.  No opposition or reply has
been filed.
 
Allegations
of the Operative Complaint
            The complaint alleges that:
            Plaintiff KCSC is a religious
organization incorporated in California. 
(Complaint ¶¶ 1-2, Exh. A [Articles of Incorporation].)  
            “Defendants conducted general
assembly on November 28, 2022, by advertising on November 14, 2022, through the
newspaper (in violation of Bylaw Article 12- Section 4) and made hires to the
directors and officers and changed bylaws, in violation of KCSC Bylaws. To
become the Session's Directors, candidate must go through mutual decision by
Chancellor President and Vice President as required by Article 19 - Sections 7
and 8. Also, to create the operation directors, candidate must go through
mutual decision by Chancellor President and Vice President as required by
Article 32. Defendants had a duty to notify and receive approval from both
Chancellor President and Vice President according to the bylaws. Defendants
breached their duty by circumventing the Session's decision making and hiring
protocol as outlined in Bylaws. Defendants inappropriately and exclusively
hired and made decisions for directors in violation of Bylaws.”  (Id. ¶ 4.)  “Defendants also filed the statement of
information with new officers and directors of KCSC to the California Secretary
of State.”  (Id. ¶ 5.)
            “Defendants also conducted
inauguration of KCSC’s new president and vice-president, even with general
assembly, in violation of KCSC.”  (Id.
¶ 6.)  “Defendants alleged that their new
KCSC is the correct KCSC, instead of current KCSC.”  (Id. ¶ 7.)  
            “The plaintiff is asking that the
Court render a judgment of permanent injunction (as well as a temporary
restraining order and preliminary injunction) whereby such defendants and
whoever was wrongfully appointed and employed by said defendant not interfere
with the operations of the KCSC, that the wrongfully appointed
members/directors stop representing the KCSC and stop using the KCSC name, and
for Defendants to cease from hiring, appointing, and calling any staff members
without the proper notification and approval from the KCSC council according to
the Bylaws.”  (Id. ¶ 8.)
            “Defendant YONG JUN KIM, YONG BONG
CHOI, PAUL JUNG, who were wrongfully appointed as directors or officers, who
violated the bylaws, without authorization by the KCSC refuse to halt their
unauthorized activities and refuse to leave their illusory positions from KCSC.
The Defendants altogether have been causing the KCSC to suffer irreparable harm
committing wrongful and unlawful acts, such as establishing, appointing and
hiring of staff personnel, directors, officers without proper authorization of
the Chancellor VP and Session in violation of the Bylaws, and misrepresenting
their identities as KCSC directors as pointed out in emergency KCSC meeting
(Exhibit B) for advantage in the internal conflict they caused in the KCSC.”  (Id. ¶ 9.)
 
Legal Standard 
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985)
39 Cal 3d 311, 318.) No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). (Ion Equipment Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110
Cal.App.3d 868, 881.)
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App.
4th 740, 747.)  When considering
demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor
v. City of Los Angeles Dep’t of Water & Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th
1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 968,
994.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings
alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (SKF Farms v. Superior Ct. (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.) 
 
Meet and Confer
Requirement 
Code
of Civil Procedure § 430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “[b]efore filing a
demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer¿in
person or by telephone¿with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached
that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” The parties
are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive
pleading is due and if they are unable to meet the demurring party shall be
granted an automatic 30-day extension.  (CCP § 430.41(a)(2).)  The
demurring party must also file and serve a declaration detailing the meet and
confer efforts.  (Id.¿at
(a)(3).)¿ If an amended pleading is filed, the parties must meet and confer
again before a demurrer may be filed to the amended pleading.  (Id.¿at (a).)
Here, there is no
indication that Defendants even attempted to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s
counsel before filing the instant demurrer, as required.  Failure
to meet and confer is not a ground for denial, (CCP § 430.41(a)(4)).  On this occasion, the Court will address the
merits of the demurrer notwithstanding Defendants’ failure to meet and confer.  However, any future failure to meet and a
confer will result in the respective motion being taken off calendar.  
 
Discussion
            Defendants assert
that the entire action is barred by res judicata and that the complaint fails
to state a claim against each defendant and is uncertain.
 
Defendants Fail to Show That the Complaint is Barred by Res
Judicata
“‘Res judicata’ describes the preclusive
effect of a final judgment on the merits. Res judicata, or claim preclusion,
prevents relitigation of the same cause of action in a second suit between the
same parties or parties in privity with them. Collateral estoppel, or issue
preclusion, ‘precludes relitigation of issues argued and decided in prior
proceedings.’” (Mycogen Corp. v. Monsanto Co. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 888,
896.) Res Judicata has been used to refer to both claim and issue preclusion. (Ibid.,
Fn. 7.) The doctrine has two aspects: it applies to both a previously litigated
cause of action, referred to as claim preclusion, and to an issue necessarily
decided in a prior action, referred to as issue preclusion. (Vandenberg v.
Superior Court (1999) 21 Cal.4th 815, 828; Teitelbaum Furs, Inc. v.
Dominion Ins. Co. (1962) 58 Cal.2d 601, 604.)
This distinction
is essential to understanding the analysis below, as courts have oft-noted the
“seemingly ineradicable confusion over the distinctions between ‘res judicata’
(claim preclusion) and ‘collateral estoppel’ (issue preclusion).” (Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 509, 541, Fn. 21.)  
Issue preclusion
applies only to issues that were actually litigated in the earlier matter;
whereas claim preclusion extends to all legal theories, proofs, and demands for
relief that might have been presented in the first matter, provided both suits
assert the same cause of action.  (Ibid. citing Landeros v. Pankey
(1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1167, 1171; Gottlieb
v. Kest (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 110, 148; Mycogen Corp. v. Monsanto Corp. (2002) 28 Cal.4th 888, 897; Burdette v. Carrier Corp. (2008) 158
Cal.App.4th 1668, 1687.) “Res judicata [claim preclusion] bars the relitigation
not only of claims that were conclusively determined in the first action, but
also matter that was within the scope of the action, related to the subject
matter, and relevant to the issues so that it could have been raised” and
includes ‘matters which were raised or could have been raised, on matters
litigated or litigable.’” (Burdette v.
Carrier Corp. (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1668, 1674-1675; accord Mark v. Spencer (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 219, 229 [bars claims that
parties had a fair opportunity to litigate].) 
Claim preclusion applies as a bar to splitting a cause of action for
partial, later litigation, or relitigation of the same cause of action based upon
on another legal theory or associated with different relief, that could have
been sought in the prior action. (Noble
v. Draper (2008) 160 Cal.App.4th 1, 10; Hamilton v. Asbestos Corp., Ltd. 
(2000) 22 Cal.4th 1127, 1146.) 
Its purpose is “to preserve the integrity of the judicial system, promote
judicial economy, and protect litigants from harassment by vexatious
litigation.” (Vandenberg v. Superior
Court (1999) 21 Cal.4th 815, 829.)
“‘The
prerequisite elements for applying the doctrine to either an entire cause of
action or one or more issues are the same: (1) A claim or issue raised in the
present action is identical to a claim or issue litigated in a prior
proceeding; (2) the prior proceeding resulted in a final judgment on the
merits; and (3) the party against whom the doctrine is being asserted was a
party or in privity with a party to the prior proceeding.’ [Citation.]” (Boeken
v. Philip Morris USA, Inc. (2010) 48 Cal.4th 788, 797.)
Here, Defendants
claim that this case is related to a prior case – The Council of Korean
Churches Corporation v. Yong Jun Kim, et al., LASC Case No. 21STCV44039 –
and that this prior related case serves as res judicata to the instant
action.  However, Defendants have not
properly raised this issue.  
First, if
Defendants contend that the instant action is related to a prior action, they
are required to file a notice of related cases in both actions so that the
Court can determine whether the actions are related.  (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.300(b), [“Whenever
a party in a civil action knows or learns that the action or proceeding is
related to another action or proceeding pending, dismissed, or disposed of by
judgment in any state or federal court in California, the party must serve and
file a Notice of Related Case.”].) 
Merely claiming the actions are related in a motion is insufficient.
Second,
Defendants have not requested judicial notice of any documents but have rather
attached what appears to be the final judgment in The Council of Korean
Churches Corporation v. Yong Jun Kim, et al., LASC Case No. 21STCV44039 and
the tentative interlocutory judgment referred to in the final judgment.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and
not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  (SKF
Farms v. Superior Ct. (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  Attaching evidence to a demurrer is a request
to consider extrinsic matters outside the pleadings.  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, the
Court cannot consider extrinsic matters that are not properly judicially
noticed.
The Court shall
take judicial notice of documents such as Court records if a party properly
requests it.  (Evid. Code, §§ 452(d),
453.)  As set forth in the rules of
Court, “[a]ny request for judicial notice must be made in a separate document
listing the specific items for which notice is requested and must comply with
rule 3.1306(c).”  (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1113(l).)  Merely attaching the
documents as an exhibit to the demurrer fails to comply with these
requirements.  The fact that Defendants are in pro per does not excuse the lack of
properly requesting judicial notice or properly requesting that the Court
relate the actions.  “[P]ro
per litigants are not entitled to special exemptions from the
California Rules of Court or Code of Civil Procedure.”  (Gamet v. Blanchard (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284.)  Rather, in pro
per litigants are “entitled to treatment equal to that of a represented
party.”  (Ibid.)  
Finally, even
overlooking these procedural errors and taking judicial notice of the Final
Judgment and Tentative Interlocutory Judgment in The Council of Korean
Churches Corporation v. Yong Jun Kim, et al., LASC Case No. 21STCV44039, (See
Evid. Code, § 452(d)), the Court cannot conclude – at this juncture – that
the instant action is necessarily barred due to res judicata by the prior
action.  While there does appear to be
some overlap of the same parties – i.e., Plaintiff KCSC and Defendant YJK – the
claims in the instant action and prior action are not identical.  As noted in the attached Tentative
Interlocutory Judgment, the conduct at issue in the prior action involved
hirings in November of 2021 -- not in November of 2022 -- as alleged in the
instant action. Thus, claim preclusion does not appear to apply.  
As to issue
preclusion, Defendants have neither provided nor requested judicial notice of
the underlying pleadings such that the Court can determine whether the claims
raised in the instant action involve the same identical issues that were
litigated and resolved in the prior action. 
Accordingly, though res judicata may potentially bar the instant action,
Defendants have not shown – for purposes of a demurrer – that the instant
action is completely barred by res judicata.
 
First Cause of Action: Permanent Injunction
            Defendants assert
that the first cause of action fails to allege a claim against Defendants.  The Court agrees as there is no cause of
action for a permanent injunction.
            “Injunctive relief is a remedy, not a cause of
action.”  (City of South Pasadena v.
Department of Transportation (1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1280, 1293.)  Thus, “‘[a] permanent injunction is merely a
remedy for a proven cause of action. It may not be issued if the underlying
cause of action is not established.’ [Citation.]”  (Ibid.)  “To qualify for a permanent injunction, the
plaintiff must prove (1) the elements of a cause of action involving the
wrongful act sought to be enjoined and (2) the grounds for equitable relief,
such as, inadequacy of the remedy at law. [Citation.]”  (Ibid.)
            Here, Plaintiff KCSC fails to identify any cause of
action that would warrant injunctive relief as requested.  Rather, KCSC merely asserts a purported cause
of action for “Permanent Injunction.”  As
there is no cause of action for permanent injunction, the first cause of action
fails against Defendants.  Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to the first cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
Third Cause of Action:
Ultra Vires [Corp. Code § 9141(a)]
Defendants assert that the
first cause of action fails to allege a claim against Defendants.  The Court agrees.
Corporations
Code “Section 9141, subdivision (a) generally provides that an action cannot be
brought to limit ‘the activities, purposes, or powers of the corporation or
upon the powers of the members, officers, or directors, or the manner of
exercise of such powers, contained in or implied by the articles’ unless the
plaintiff is one of several designated persons[.]”  (Classis of Central California v. Miraloma
Community Church (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 750, 768.)  Section 9141 subdivision (a) gives standing
to bring claims against officers/directors of a nonprofit religious corporation
if “(1) by the authorized number of members (Section 5036), by any person
authorized by the articles or bylaws to bring an action, or by the state to
enjoin the doing or continuation of unauthorized activities by the corporation
or its officers, or both, in cases where third parties have not acquired rights
thereby, or (2) by the authorized number of members (Section 5036), by any
person authorized by the articles or bylaws to bring an action, by any member
suing in a representative suit, or by the
corporation, against the officers or directors of the corporation for violation
of their authority.”  (Corp. Code, § 9141(a), [Bold and Italics
Added].)  
At most,
Corporation Code section 9141(a), merely provides Plaintiff KCSC – as the
corporation – with standing to sue Defendants for a violation of their
authority.  However, Corporation Code
section 9141(a) does not itself provide a cause of action.  “A violation of a state statute does not
necessarily give rise to a private cause of action. [Citation.] Instead,
whether a party has a right to sue depends on whether the Legislature has
‘manifested an intent to create such a private cause of action’ under the
statute. [Citations.]”  (Vasquez v.
Solo 1 Kustoms, Inc. (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th 84, 90.)  
Here, Corporation
Code section 9141(a) does not itself set forth or provide a basis for relief or
to bring a claim.  Thus, Corporation Code
section 9141(a) cannot serve as a basis for a cause of action.  Therefore, Defendants’ demurrer to the third
cause of action is SUSTAINED.
 
The Entire Complaint is Uncertain and Fails to Sufficiently
Allege Causes of Action against Defendants
            Defendants assert
that the entire complaint is uncertain. 
The Court agrees.
            A special demurrer for uncertainty, Code of
Civil Procedure §430.10(f), is disfavored and will only be sustained where the
pleading is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot
reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or
claims are directed against him/her.  (Khoury
v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Further, a pleading is subject to a demurrer
for uncertainty, when it is unintelligible by “attempt[ing] to state numerous
causes of action in a very loose and rambling manner without any attempt at
separately stating them.”  (Craig v.
City of Los Angeles (1941) 44 Cal.App.2d 71, 73.)  However, even if the pleading is somewhat
vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury, supra, 14 Cal.App.4th at p.616.)
            Here,
the complaint makes various allegations against unspecified defendants without
any identification as to who Plaintiff is referring to.  For example, the complaint alleges that “Defendants
conducted general assembly on November 28, 2022, by advertising on November 14,
2022, through the newspaper (in violation of Bylaw Article 12- Section 4) and
made hires to the directors and officers and changed bylaws, in violation of
KCSC Bylaws.”  (Complaint ¶ 4.)  However, the term “Defendants” is not defined
in the complaint.  Nor is it clear that
the term “Defendants” in the complaint is intended to reference the named
Defendants in the instant action as the complaint specifically names the named
Defendants.  (See e.g., Complaint ¶ 9, [“Defendant
YONG JUN KIM, YONG BONG CHOI, PAUL JUNG, who were wrongfully appointed as
directors or officers, who violated the bylaws, without authorization by the
KCSC refuse to halt their unauthorized activities and refuse to leave their
illusory positions from KCSC.”].)  It is
unclear what Plaintiff is alleging.  Did
the named Defendants wrongfully appoint themselves somehow?  Or did some unnamed parties appoint Defendants?  
            Further,
the complaint is confusing in its choice of terminology.  For example, the complaint alleges that the
unspecified defendants acted in violation of Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶ 6, [“Defendants also conducted
inauguration of KCSC's new president and vice-president, even with general
assembly, in violation of KCSC.”].)  Plaintiff
is an entity, thus actions cannot be “in violation of KCSC.”  
            Finally,
the complaint is unclear as to who is bringing the instant action.  The complaint is purportedly on behalf of
KCSC, but the complaint appears to concede that Defendants are the legally
designated officers and directors of KCSC. 
(Complaint ¶ 5, [“Defendants also filed the statement of information
with new officers and directors of KCSC to the California Secretary of State.”].)  In fact, Plaintiff claims that there is a
dispute over who runs KCSC yet fails to identify who is purporting to be the
current KCSC.  (Complaint ¶ 7, [“Defendants
alleged that their new KCSC is the correct KCSC, instead of current KCSC.”].)  While KCSC can bring a lawsuit, “a
corporation, as an artificial entity created by law, can only act in its
affairs through its natural person agents and representatives.”  (CLD Construction, Inc. v. City of San
Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.) 
Given the clear dispute and that Defendants appear to be the designated
natural agents of KCSC, a clear allegation as to who is purporting to bring the
action on behalf of KCSC is required.
            Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to the entire complaint for uncertainty is SUSTAINED.
 
Leave to Amend
Leave to amend
must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful
amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is
on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully.
(Goodman v. Kennedy, supra, 18 Cal.3d at p.348; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC
(2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.)  
Here, it is unclear whether Plaintiff can successfully amend the
complaint.  However, as this is the first
time that a complaint has been sustained against Plaintiff’s complaint, the
Court finds it is proper to allow Plaintiff an opportunity to cure the defects
discussed in this order. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
349; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108
Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037.)   
 
CONCLUSIONS AND
ORDER
Based on the foregoing, Defendants Yong
Jun Kim, Yong Bong Choe (erroneously sued as Yong Bong Choi), and Paul Jung’s
demurrer to the complaint is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
Plaintiff is to file and serve an amended
complaint within thirty (30) days of notice of this order. 
The case management conference is
continued to May 8, 2024 at 8:30 am.
Moving Party is to give notice and file
proof of service of such.
 
DATED:
February ___, 2024                                                 ___________________________
                                                                                          Elaine
Lu
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court