 Case Number:  22STCV32554    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  29 Johnson v. Osborne
Case No. 22STCV32554
Motion for Leave for Second Physical Examination of Plaintiff
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On October 4, 2022, Michael Johnson filed the complaint in
this action against Shelby Osborne, Randolph Osborne (collectively, “Defendants”),
and Does 1 through 50, asserting a cause of action for negligence arising out
of an alleged motor vehicle accident on November 28, 2020.
On December 13, 2023, Defendants filed an answer.
On April 24, 2024, Defendants conducted a physical
(neurosurgical) examination of Plaintiff performed by Dr. Luke Macyszyn.
(Radusic Decl., ¶ 7 & Exh. E.)
On October 17, 2024, Defendants filed this motion for leave to
conduct a second physical (neurological) examination of Plaintiff.  Plaintiff filed an opposition on November 6,
and Defendants filed a reply on November 14.
Legal Standard
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by means of a
physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the action, (2) an agent of
any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or under the legal control of
a party, in any action in which the mental or physical condition (including the
blood group) of that party or other person is in controversy in the action.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a).)
In a personal injury action, the defendant may
demand one physical examination of plaintiff as of right, without advance leave
of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2032.220.)  
If a defendant seeks a further physical examination
of plaintiff, or a mental examination, the defendant must first file a motion
and “obtain leave of court.” (Id., § 2032.310, subd. (a).) Such a motion
must “specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the
examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if any, of the person
or persons who will perform the examination.” (Id., subd. (b).) The
court may grant such a motion “only for good cause shown.” (Id., §
2032.320, subd. (a).) A showing of good cause generally requires “that the
party produce specific facts justifying discovery and that the inquiry be
relevant to the subject matter of the action or reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Vinson v. Super. Ct. (1987)
43 Cal.3d 833, 840.)  
The
moving party¿must support the motion with a meet and confer declaration. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310, subd. (b).) A meet and confer declaration
must state facts “showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”¿ (Id., §
2016.040.)¿¿¿¿ 
“An order granting a physical or mental examination
shall specify the person or persons who may perform the examination, as well as
the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and procedures, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd.
(d).) “The court is to describe¿in detail¿who will conduct the
examination, where and when it will be conducted, the conditions, scope and
nature of the examination, and the diagnostic tests and procedures to be
employed.  The way to describe these ‘diagnostic tests and procedures’—fully¿and¿in
detail—is to list them by name.” (Carpenter v. Super. Ct.¿(2006)
141 Cal.App.4th 249, 260.)¿¿ 
The examination will be limited to whatever
condition is “in controversy” in the action.¿ (Id., § 2032.020, subd.
(a).)  
Discussion
Defendants move for leave to conduct a neurological
examination of Plaintiff, to be performed by Dr. Edwin C. Amos. 
Defendants satisfy the procedural requirements set forth in
the Code.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310;
Carpenter, supra, 141
Cal.App.4th at p. 260.) The examination
is to occur on December 10, 2024 at 2:00 p.m. at 2021 Santa Monica Blvd., Suite
525E, Santa Monica, California 90404. It is a neurological examination, and Dr.
Amos will test mental status, cranial nerves, motor skills, gait and balance,
and reflexes. Dr. Amos will also take a history. The specific tests and
procedures are the following: speaking with the patient; visuospatial tasks;
simple calculations; writing; having the patient perform various maneuvers;
inspecting each patient’s muscle group; having the patient ambulate and perform
turns; Romberg test; having the patient perform the tandem gait; assessing
ability of the patient to stand on either leg; and tapping over the patient’s
tendons.  
Defendants have also shown good cause. As
Plaintiff confirmed in written discovery, Plaintiff has experienced
complex neurological injuries, including the following: loss of consciousness;
intermittent tinnitus with weakness and numbness of the extremities leading to
trouble and difficulty sleeping; and migraines and headaches. (Radusic Decl., ¶
3 & Exh. A.) Plaintiff complained of headaches with nausea, difficulty
concentrating and focusing, short term memory problems, and recalling names. (Id.,
¶ 5 & Exh. C.) Plaintiff was diagnosed with post concussive syndrome with
post traumatic headaches, including short term memory loss and difficulty
focusing and concentrating. (Ibid.) Dr. Amos will examine Plaintiff to assess
the existence, nature, and causation of the damages Plaintiff claims. (Amos Decl.,
¶ 3.)  
Notwithstanding Plaintiff’s
argument to the contrary, the Court does not find these tests to be duplicative
of the examination previously conducted by Dr. Macyszyn.  Dr. Amos will test
mental status, cranial nerves, motor skills, gait and balance, and reflexes. Dr. Macyszyn
tested Plaintiff’s movements and the range of motion of Plaintiff’s cervical
and lumbar spine. (Yazdanpanah, Decl., ¶ 3 & Exh. 2.) Dr. Macyszyn also
tested Plaintiff’s ability to walk on toes and heels, squat, bend over to touch
the toes, rotate the back and head to the left and right; Plaintiff’s motor
strength, sensation, and deep tendon reflexes in upper and lower extremities; and
Plaintiff’s upper and lower extremity symptoms and function in the cervical and
lumbar spine. (Ibid.) There may be some overlap, but there are also meaningful
differences, and the two examinations, conducted by doctors with different
specialties assessing different injuries, are not unduly duplicative, repetitive,
or burdensome.  Good cause has been
shown.
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion for leave to conduct a
second physical examination of Plaintiff. 

The Court ORDERS Plaintiff to appear for examination and be
examined by Dr. Edwin C. Amos, a neurologist, on December
10, 2024 at 2:00 p.m. at 2021 Santa Monica Blvd., Suite 525E, Santa Monica,
California 90404. Dr. Amos may test mental status, cranial nerves, motor
skills, gait and balance, and reflexes. Dr. Amos may also take a history. The
specific tests and procedures permitted are the following: speaking with the
patient; visuospatial tasks; simple calculations; writing; having the patient
perform various maneuvers; inspecting each patient’s muscle group; having the
patient ambulate and perform turns; Romberg test; having the patient perform
the tandem gait; assessing ability of the patient to stand on either leg; and
tapping over the patient’s tendons.
Moving party to give notice.