  Case Number:  21STCV27827    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  29 Castanho
v. Al-Marri
21STCV27827
Defendant’s Motion to Quash Trial Subpoena
Tentative
The
motion is granted.
Background
On October
12, 2021, Olivia Castanho (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Mahamed Ahmad
M.A. Al-Marri, Avis Budget Group, Inc., Avis Budget Car Rental, LLC, Budget
Rent A Car System, Inc., Payless Car Rental, Inc., Budget Truck Rental LLC,
Zipcar, Inc., and Does 1 through 50, asserting causes of action for motor
vehicle negligence and general negligence arising out of an automobile accident
occurring on October 28, 2019.
On July
14, 2023, Mahamed Ahmad M.A. Al-Marri (“Defendant”) filed an answer.
All
other named defendants were dismissed in August 2023.
On
October 28, 2024, Defendant filed this motion to quash the trial subpoena issued
by Plaintiff seeking to compel defense expert, Amandeep Bhalla, to produce
certain financial records at trial. Plaintiff filed an opposition on November
8, and Defendant filed a reply on November 15.
Legal
Standard
Code of Civil Procedure section 1985 provides for the issuance
of a subpoena compelling a witness to appear for a legal proceeding and, if
requested, to bring documents to the proceeding.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1985, subd. (a).)  A subpoena is the only procedure for
compelling a third-party witness to attend trial and produce documents; a
subpoena may also be used for a party, as an alternative to a Notice to Appear or
Notice to Produce under Code of Civil Procedure 1987.
Subdivision (b) of section 1985 provides:
“A copy of an affidavit shall be served with a subpoena duces
tecum issues before trial, showing good cause for the production of the matters
and things described in the subpoena, specifying the exact matters or things
desired to be produced, setting forth in full detail the materiality thereof to
the issues involved in the case, and stating that the witness has the desired
matters or things in his or her possession or under his or her control.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1985, subd. (b).)
Code
of Civil Procedure § 1987.1, subdivision (a), states:  
“If
a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books,
documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court,
or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the
court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b),
or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity
to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or
directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall
declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other
order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or
oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy
of the person.”  
In
ruling on a motion to quash brought under section 1987.1:
“The
court may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses
incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s
fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without
substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the
subpoena was oppressive.”
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 1987.2, subd. (a).)
Discussion
On
or about October 7, 2024, Plaintiff issued a trial subpoena to Dr. Amandeep
Bhalla, an expert witness designated by Defendant. (Fitzgerald Decl., ¶ 6 &
Exh. C.)  The subpoena directed Dr.
Bhalla to appear at trial and produce the following documents:
“Financial
records including complete tax filings (state and federal), profit and loss
statements, and supporting documents such as checks and receipts detailing
payments received by Dr. Amandeep Bhalla for professional services relating to
income generated from medical-legal services only for the years 2021 through
2024.”
(Ibid.)
Defendant
now moves to quash the trial subpoena.
Beginning
with the tax returns, these documents are privileged.  (Schnabel v. Super. Ct. (1993) 5
Cal.4th 704, 721; Sav-On Drugs v. Super. Ct. (1975) 15 Cal.3d 1, 6; Webb
v. Standard Oil Co. (1957) 49 Cal.2d 509, 513-514; see also 2 Weil &
Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (2024), ¶ 8:112.)  Although the privilege is not absolute, Plaintiff
has not shown that a public policy greater than that of the confidentiality of
tax returns is implicated in these circumstances or that there has been a
waiver by Dr. Bhalla.
As
to the other documents requested in the subpoena, Plaintiff has not “specif[ied] the exact matters or things
desired to be produced” or “set[]forth in full detail the materiality thereof
to the issues involved in the case,” as required by Code of Civil Procedure
section 1985.  In the context of pre-trial
discovery under the Civil Discovery Act, a request to produce a category of
documents is generally proper, but a trial subpoena requires a significantly
higher degree of particularity.  That
test is not satisfied here.
Accordingly, the motion to
quash is granted.  
The Court need not reach,
and does not reach, the other grounds set forth in the motion to quash.
The request for sanctions
is denied.  The Court does not find that
Plaintiff has acted in bad faith or without substantial justification or that
one or more requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.
Conclusion
The
Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to quash.
The
Court QUASHES the trial subpoena bearing a date of issuance of October 7, 2024,
directed to Dr. Amandeep Bhalla.
Moving
party is ordered to give notice.