 Case Number:  23TRCV00732    Hearing Date:   March 22, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling 
¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 March 22, 2024 
¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV00732
¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Andreea Popa; Robert
Popa v. Ian Anthony White, et al.
¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Ian Anthony White  
¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiffs,
Andreea Popa and Robert Popa
¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set 
¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Quash
Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records to Manhattan Beach
Police Department
                                                (2) Request for
Monetary Sanctions
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) Defendant’s Motion to
Quash Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records is DENIED.
                                                (2) Request for
Monetary Sanctions are DENIED. 
 
  
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿ 
¿ 
A. Factual¿ 
 
On May 13, 2023, Plaintiffs, Andreea Popa and Robert
Popa (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a Complaint against Defendant, Ian
Anthony White, and DOES 1 through 20. The Complaint alleges causes of action
for personal injuries, property damage, and punitive damages.  
 
The lawsuit arises out of a motor vehicle accident
that occurred on March 1, 2022 at the intersection of Sepulveda Boulevard and
Manhattan Beach Boulevard in Manhattan Beach, California. Plaintiff contends
that Defendant was found to have been under the influence of alcohol or an
unknown substance at the time of the accident and was subsequently arrested and
charged with felony violations of California Vehicle Code §§ 23153(a) and (b).
Plaintiff also notes that the case was prosecuted by the Los Angeles District
Attorney, which resolted in Defendant pleading nolo contendere to a misdemeanor
violation of California Vehicle Code Section 23152(b). 
 
Previously, this Court GRANTED Defendant, Ian
Anthony White’s Motion to Quash on December 13, 2023. Defendant notes that on
January 16, 2024, Plaintiffs’ Amended Deposition Subpoena Production of
Business Records were served on the Manhattan Beach Police Department seeking
documents which Defendant argues: (1) constitute an invasion of
DEFENDANT’S privacy rights; and (2) irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to
lead to the discovery of relevant admissible evidence. Defendant contends that
based on Plaintiffs’ counsel’s representations to this Court at the prior
hearing, Plaintiffs were permitted to re-issue an amended subpoena seeking only
the police report and toxicology report from the date of the subject accident.
However, despite this, Defendant still contends that Plaintiffs’ amended
subpoena still seeks documents beyond those expressly permitted by the Court in
ruling on Defendant’s prior motion to quash. 
 
As
such, Defendant has brought forth this Motion to Quash Plaintiffs’ Amended
Deposition Subpoena Production of Business Records served on the Manhattan
Beach PD on January 16, 2024.
 
B. Procedural  
 
            On February 9, 2024, Defendant filed
this Motion to Quash Amended Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business
Records. On March 8, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition. On March 15, 2024,
Defendant filed a reply brief. 
 
II. ANALYSIS ¿ 
¿ 
A.   
Legal Standard 
 
Code of
Civil Procedure § 1987.1 states, “When a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of [documents], the court, upon motion reasonably
made by the party, the witness or any consumer described in Section 1985.3…may
make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing
compliance with it upon such terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders.” “The court may make any other order as may be
appropriate to protect the parties, the witness, or the consumer from
unreasonable or oppressive demands including unreasonable violations of a
witness’s or consumer’s right of privacy.” (Ibid.)  
 
Civil
Code section 3294, subdivision (a) authorizes punitive damages in non-contract
cases “where the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.”
“Malice [is defined as] conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights and safety of
others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “Oppression” means “despicable
conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious
disregard of that person's rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) The “act
of operating a vehicle while intoxicated may constitute an act of ‘malice’
under section 3294 if performed under circumstances which disclose a conscious
disregard of the probable dangerous consequences.” (Taylor v. Superior Court
(1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 892.) Two cases, Taylor v. Superior Court (1979)
24 Cal.3d 890 and Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82,
illustrate the specificity and gravity required to support a claim of punitive
damages against an allegedly intoxicated driver.
 
 
 
B.    
Discussion 
 
Here, the
amended subpoena request seeks the following: 
 
1.     
THE POLICE REPORT (“Police Report” as used herein
shall mean – “Law enforcement writes a report that describes what information
they have about whether someone committed a crime. “it will include what they
saw or heard, what evidence they’ve collected, and what any witnesses said. “If
they have it, it will include pictures, videos, transcripts of recorded
statements, and lab reports. “it usually says what charges, for what crimes,
they recommend the district attorney should file.”) (FN.1) ARISING OUT OF (“ARISING
OUT OF” as used herein shall mean originating from, growing out of, or flowing
as used herein shall mean originating form, growing out of, or flowing from.)
the Manhattan Beach Police Department’s arrest of MR. WHITE as or about 8:00
p.m. or shortly thereafter on March 1, 2022, only. 
2.     
The TOXICOLOGY REPORT (“TOXICOLOGY REPORT” as
used herein shall mean documentation of the results of various tests that
determine the type and approximate amount of legal and illegal drugs a person
has taken by measuring how much is in their blood, urine, or other bodily
fluid.) (FN2) ARISING OUT OF Manhattan Beach Police Department’s arrest of MR.
WHITE at or about 8:00 p.m. or shortly thereafter on March 1, 2022, only. 
 
Defendant
seeks to quash the subpoena because: (1) he argues it is not relevant to the
subject matter of this litigation; (2) the subpoena seeks private information
in violation of the patent-physician privilege; (3) the defendant has a
constitutional right of privacy in his medical records; and (4) Plaintiffs’
subpoena is overbroad and fails to identify the requested documents with
particularity. 
 
Defendant
argues that the subpoena should be quashed because it is not relevant to the
subject matter of this litigation. The Court disagrees.  Defendant argues that Plaintiffs’ amended
subpoena to MBPD for Defendants medical records regarding his blood alcohol
test results and arrest records are neither relevant to the subject accident
nor are they reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. The Court disagrees.  
 
Plaintiffs’
counsel maintains that the records are necessary to determine whether Defendant
was intoxicated at the time of the subject accident. In response, Defendant asserts
that in response to Form Interrogatories, Set One, Defendant unequivocally
admitted to: (1) consuming alcohol immediately before driving and earlier in
the day of the subject accident, and (2) pleading nolo contendere to Vehicle
Code 23152(b) (Driving with a blood alcohol content of 0.08% of more) in
relation to the subject accident. But an admission that Defendant had some
amount of alcohol before driving, and that he entered a no contest plea, do not
equate to an admission of intoxication or even an admission of negligence.    A no
contest plea, contrary to a guilty plea, cannot be offered as proof of much of anything
at a civil trial.  Plaintiff is entitled
to discovery of facts from which the trier of fact could find culpable conduct,
and the answers to interrogatories by themselves are insufficient for Plaintiff
to carry his burden of proof on this point. 
Thus, the SDT for the relevant records in reasonably calculated to lead
to discovery of admissible evidence tending in reason to prove culpable
conduct.  
 
Defendant
also argues that Plaintiffs’ counsel’s argument that he is entitled to know
about Defendants blood alcohol test results and arrest records as they pertain
to punitive damages, as this Court noted in its previous Tentative Ruling in
December.  (See Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 893, 897.)  
 
Both
sides argue about what they recall being discussed in the unrecorded oral argument
three months ago.  It is highly unlikely,
in the Court’s own normal custom and practice, that the Court would have
specifically ruled as to whether an attached witness statement or an attached photograph
or an attached transcript of a recorded statement would or would not be within
the ambit of a reasonable scope of a new SDT to the police department.  But the Court so opines now.  It is reasonable and the specially defined
term in the amended SDT before the Court is not objectionably over broad.  If the police took a Mirandized, recorded
interview of the defendant, such a statement is reasonably discoverable.  If a witness gave the arresting officer a statement
that she/he did or did not see evidence bearing on careful or careless driving,
such a statement would be reasonably discoverable.  
 
In
its previous minute order, the Court noted that the scope of the prior subpoena
must be narrowed. It has been.  The police
report and toxicology were indicated be fair game in a narrowed SDT.  allowed.  The definition of “arising out of” in the amended
SDT speaks only to the incident in this case which occurred on March 1, 2022.
This Court finds that Plaintiffs have sufficiently followed this Court’s
guidance and provided a more narrow subpoena. As such, this Court DENIES the
motion to quash. Consequently, the portion of the motion requesting monetary
sanctions is also DENIED. Plaintiffs, in their opposition, argue this Court
should instead, award them monetary sanctions. The Court does not believe
monetary sanctions should be awarded to either party during this time. 
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
For the foregoing reasons, Defendant’s
Motion to Quash is DENIED.   The
cross-requests for Monetary Sanctions are both DENIED at this time.
¿¿ 
Plaintiffs are ordered to
give notice.
 
 
 