  Case Number:  21STCV11027    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  39 Luis Venegas, et
al. v. Browning-Ferris Industries of California, Inc., et al.
Case No.
21STCV11027
 
Order #1 of 3
Motion for Leave
to Amend
 
            Plaintiffs
filed this employment discrimination and sexual harassment case against
Browning-Ferris Industries of California, Inc. (“BFI”) and the supervisor at
issue, Peter Pouwels.  The Court granted
summary adjudication of every cause of action against BFI except as follows: 
 
            1.         The first cause of action (sexual
harassment) by all Plaintiffs
 
            2.         The third cause of action (negligent
hiring/retention/supervision) by all Plaintiffs to the extent the claim is
predicated upon allegations of sexual harassment
 
            3.         The fifth cause of action (failure to
prevent harassment/discrimination) by all Plaintiffs to the extent the claim is
predicated upon sexual harassment
 
            4.         The sixth cause of action (retaliation
under FEHA) by Luis Venegas to the extent the claim is predicated upon sexual
harassment
 
            5.         The seventh and eight causes of action
(retaliation under the Labor Code) by Luis Venegas to the extent the claim is
predicated upon alleged safety violations 
 
            6.         The ninth cause of action (wrongful
termination in violation of public policy) by Jake Perry.  
 
            7.         The ninth cause of action (wrongful
termination in violation of public policy) by Joshua Garcia to the extent the
claim is predicated upon sexual harassment and/or racial harassment by Fred
Jones.  
 
(See Court’s Minute Order, dated July 10, 2023.)  The Court denied summary adjudication of the
first and second causes of action against Peter Pouwels.  (Ibid.) 
The Court also denied summary adjudication of the claim for punitive
damages against Pouwels.  (Ibid.)    
 
            This action
was filed on March 22, 2021.  The Court
ruled on Defendants’ motions for summary adjudication over two years later, on
July 10, 2023.  Fact discovery has
closed; expert designations/disclosures have been completed; and the expert
discovery deadline is November 17, 2023. 
(See Court’s Minute Order, dated July 26, 2023.)  The Court previously denied a motion to
reopen discovery.  (See Court’s Minute
Order, dated September 25, 2023.)  Now,
Plaintiffs’ counsel seeks leave to file a first amended complaint to add
factual allegations and causes of action. 

 
            The Court
grants the motion in part and denies the motion in part.  Specifically, the Court rules as follows:
 
            Paragraph
#43 – Granted.  Plaintiffs merely seek to
add a factual allegation in support of an existing cause of action,
specifically, the ninth cause of action (wrongful termination in violation of
public policy) by Joshua Garcia to the extent the claim is predicated upon
sexual harassment and/or racial harassment by Fred Jones.  While the Court questions whether this is
necessary given the notice pleading standard, there is no prejudice to this
amendment, so the motion is granted in this respect.   
 
            Paragraph
#45 through Paragraph #53 – Granted in Part; Denied in Part.  Plaintiffs seek to add factual allegations
that they were constructively terminated. 
The Court grants the motion to the extent Plaintiffs seek to add
allegations that they were constructively terminated as a result of the alleged
sexual harassment, as those allegations do not unduly expand the scope of the
existing complaint, given the first cause of action.  The Court previously suggested it would
permit such an amendment to clarify this theory of damages.  (See Declaration of Christopher DeClue, Exh.
#4, pp. 17-18.)  Therefore, the motion is
granted in this respect.  However, the
Court denies the amendment with respect to other factual allegations of
constructive termination, e.g., safety violations.  The Court resolved those issues in ruling on
Defendants’ motions for summary adjudication, and the new allegations seek to
expand the scope of the case, unduly prejudicing Defendants.  Plaintiffs had ample opportunity to develop
and add these theories before discovery closed and failed to develop sufficient
evidence.  Therefore, the motion is
denied in this respect.    
 
            Fifth Cause
of Action – Denied.  Plaintiffs seek to
add “race and/or national origin” as a predicate to the fifth cause of
action.  The Court resolved the issue in
ruling on Defendants’ motions for summary adjudication, and the new allegations
seek to expand the scope of the case, unduly prejudicing Defendants.  Plaintiffs had ample opportunity to develop
and add these theories before discovery closed and failed to do so without good
cause.  Therefore, the motion is denied
in this respect.   
 
            Ninth Cause
of Action – Granted in Part; Denied in Part. 
Plaintiffs seek to add causes of action for wrongful termination in
violation of public policy by seven additional plaintiffs based upon a
constructive termination theory.  The
motion is granted only to the extent Plaintiffs seek to raise constructive wrongful
termination claims based upon allegations of sexual harassment.  These claims do not unduly expand the scope
of the existing case, which has been predicated upon allegations of sexual
harassment from the outset.  Because
there is no undue prejudice to Defendants, the motion is granted in this
respect.  However, the motion is denied
to the extent Plaintiffs seek to raise constructive termination claims based
upon other factual allegations, like “unsafe . . . working conditions” and
“unfair working conditions.”  The Court
resolved the issues in ruling on Defendants’ motions for summary adjudication,
and the new allegations seek to expand the scope of the case, unduly
prejudicing Defendants.  Plaintiffs had
ample opportunity to develop and add these theories before discovery closed and
failed to develop sufficient evidence. 
Therefore, the motion is denied in this respect.   
  
            Tenth Cause
of Action – Denied.  Plaintiffs seek to
add a cause of action for racial harassment by three plaintiffs.  The Court resolved the issue in ruling on
Defendants’ motions for summary adjudication, and the new allegations seek to
expand the scope of the case, unduly prejudicing Defendants.  Plaintiffs had ample opportunity to develop
and add these theories before discovery closed and failed to do so without good
cause.  Therefore, the motion is denied
in this respect.   
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to amend
is granted in part and denied in part.
 
            2.         The Court authorizes Plaintiffs to file
a first amended complaint that clarifies the allegations in support of the
first cause of action (sexual harassment) and adds constructive wrongful
termination claims based solely upon allegations of sexual harassment.  The Court also authorizes Plaintiff Joshua
Garcia to add one factual allegation in support of his wrongful termination
claim.    
 
            3.         The Court denies Plaintiffs’ motion for
leave to amend in all other respects.
 
            4.         Plaintiffs’ counsel shall revise the
proposed first amendment complaint consistently with this order and shall file
it within ten (10) days.  Defendants’
answer shall be due based upon statutory deadlines.  
 
            5.         Plaintiffs’ counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 

 
 
Order #2 of 3
Motion to
Bifurcate
 
Plaintiffs filed this employment
discrimination and sexual harassment case against Browning-Ferris Industries of
California, Inc. (“BFI”) and the supervisor at issue, Peter Pouwels.  Defendants move to bifurcate this case to
order separate trials for each plaintiff. 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 598, “The court may, when the
convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of
handling the litigation would be promoted thereby . . . make an order . . .
that the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any
other issue or any part thereof in the case[.]”  (Code Civ. Proc.,  § 598.) 
Judicial economy would not be served by having separate trials
concerning sexual harassment by the same supervisor.  Defendants argue that there is misjoinder by
all ten plaintiffs filing a single action. 
That is not the case when the plaintiffs all allege that they were
sexually harassed by the same supervisor, Peter Pouwels.  Defendants also argue that a joint trial would
involve irrelevant and prejudicial “me, too” evidence.  This is not the case when the “me, too”
evidence involves the same supervisor. 
Finally, Defendants’ counsel argues that a joint trial would involve at
least 50 witnesses and over 200 hours of testimony, rendering the trial
unmanageable.  If that is the case, the
Court will transfer this case to a long cause courtroom at the appropriate
time.  Ten separate trials would take
even longer, given the time it would take to select juries and the repetitious
testimony.   
 
The Court has considered
Defendants’ remaining arguments and finds none to be persuasive.  Therefore, Defendants’ motion to bifurcate
the trial is denied.  Plaintiff’s counsel
shall provide notice and file proof of such with the Court.  
 
 
Order #3 of 3
Case Management
Order
 
            Following
the case management conference, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         Expert discovery shall close on
November 17, 2023.  
 
            2.         The Court designates this case as a
long cause case, given the number of Plaintiffs and claims, which will require
more than 100 hours of testimony at trial. 
The Court orders the parties to prepare long cause trial binders upon
the close of expert discovery.    
 
            3.         The Court issues an Order to Show Cause
why this case should not be stayed, pending preparation of long cause trial
binders and assignment to a long cause courtroom.  The Court shall hold a hearing on this OSC on
November 17, 2023, at 1:30 p.m. at the following location:
 
Stanley Mosk Courthouse 
111 North Hill Street
Department #39 (Goorvitch, J.)
Los Angeles, California 90012
 
The parties may appear remotely or in-person.  The parties may file responses at least five
(5) days in advance of the hearing and/or may address the issues at the
hearing.  The Court provides notice:
Absent good cause, the Court intends to stay this case on November 17, 2023, until
the long cause trial judge lifts the stay.
 
            4.         Plaintiffs’ counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court.          