 Case Number:  21STCV28966    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2023    Dept:  39 Scott Erickson, et
al. v. Bartlett Loft
Case No.
21STCV28966
Motion to Strike
Motion for Leave
to File Cross-Complaint
Demurrer to
Cross-Complaint
 
            Plaintiffs
are spouses and own a residential unit governed by Defendant, a
homeowners’  association.  (Second Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 3-4.)  Plaintiff Ryan Erickson resides at the unit,
but Plaintiff Scott Erickson does not. 
(Id., ¶ 3.)  Plaintiffs allege
that Defendant “has targeted the Plaintiffs and engaged in selective
enforcement of the Governing Documents to Plaintiffs’ financial and emotional
detriment most notable since the beginning of 2019.”  (Id., ¶ 24.) 
Plaintiffs allege that the building manager, Peter Ong, failed to
address at least 26 written incident reports, including “harassing, disturbing,
threatening, intimidating, slandering, and racially discriminating behavior” by
another tenant, Christopher Tripp (“Tripp”). 
(Id., ¶ 25.)  Plaintiffs allege
that Tripp made a series of racist and obscene comments to Plaintiff Ryan
Erickson.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiffs also allege that Ong failed to
address Tripp’s illegal activities, including suspected drug use and/or drug
trafficking.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiffs allege that Ong failed to address
Plaintiffs’ reasonable repair requests that led to overcharges and verbal
harassment by Defendant’s repairman, Mr. Stivers, in addition to failing to
repair holes from cameras Tripp installed, which subjected Plaintiff Ryan
Erickson to exposure to toxic fumes. 
(Ibid.)  Plaintiffs allege that
they were denied use and enjoyment of the unit. 
(Id., ¶ 27.)  
 
            Tripp
is deceased, and Plaintiffs filed this action against the homeowners’
association, Bartlett Loft (“Bartlett”). 
Bartlett filed a cross-complaint against the owner of the unit occupied
by Tripp, Amit Tidhar (“Tidhar”) on March 27, 2023.  Now, Tidhar moves to strike the
cross-complaint for failure to seek leave to file it, and Bartlett moves for
leave to amend to file the cross-complaint. 
The
Court grants Bartlett’s motion for leave to amend; orders that the
cross-complaint of March 27, 2023, shall not be stricken; and denies Tidhar’s
motion to strike, per Code of Civil Procedure section 426.50.  There is no undue prejudice, as the trial
date is not until July 9, 2024, which affords ample time to complete
discovery.  To the extent Tidhar raises issues
with the merits of the cross-claims, the Court will address those issues in
ruling on the demurrer.   
 
Bartlett’s cross-complaint asserts
five causes of action: (1) Breach of governing documents, (2) Negligence, (3)
Equitable indemnity, (4) Equitable contribution, and (5) Declaratory
relief.  Tidhar demurs to each cause of
action.  “It is black letter law that a
demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.”
 (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In
ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the allegations of
the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) 
“This rule of liberal construction means that the reviewing court draws
inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v.
Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)  The Court overrules the demurrer for the
following reasons:
 
1.         Statute
of Limitations – Tidhar argues that the claims are time-barred.  Plaintiffs allege that Tripp’s conduct
occurred “as early as February 2019” and that they were denied “use and
enjoyment of the unit” from January 2019 to June 2021.  The cross-claims were filed on March 27,
2023, which was within two years of this date. 
Therefore, the demurrer is overruled on this basis.  This issue must be resolved on a motion for
summary adjudication or a motion in limine. 
 
 
2.         Breach
of Governing Documents – Barlett is entitled to plead a breach of contract
claim in general terms.  (Ochs v. PacifiCare of Cal. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th
782, 795.)  In this case, Bartlett
alleges that Tripp violated various provisions of the governing documents, which
are detailed in the cross-complaint (as well as the operative complaint).  (See Cross-Complaint, ¶ 15.)  Bartlett alleges that Tidhar’s “failure to
restrain Mr. Tripp from engaging in that conduct . . . constitutes a nuisance,
in violation of the Governing Documents.”  (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 24.)  Among other things, Bartlett alleges that
Tidhar violated section 3 of the governing documents, which prohibits owners
from “do[ing] or permit[ting] anything to be done which would interfere with
the rights, comfort and convenience of the other Owners/Residents & Tenants
as protected by Article III.” 
(Cross-Complaint, ¶ 8.)  Bartlett
alleges: “On several occasions, Plaintiffs complained to [Bartlett] about Mr.
Tripp’s actions and conduct.  [Bartlett]
promptly forwarded those complaints to [Tidhar’s] attention.”  (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 16.)  These allegations are sufficient to state a
cause of action for breach of contract. 
Contrary to Tidhar’s argument, this cause of action is not predicated
upon a vicarious liability theory. 
Rather, Bartlett is proceeding against Tidhar for his violation of the
governing documents by permitting Tripp to pose a nuisance.  Therefore, the demurrer to the first cause of
action is overruled.   
 
3.         Negligence – The Court sustains the
demurrer because Bartlett does not allege that Tidhar owes a duty to Bartlett
(as opposed to Plaintiffs).  Bartlett
relies on a line of cases—including Chee v. Amanda Goldt Property Management
(2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 1360—which states that a landlord may be held liable when
a known danger causes injury to a plaintiff. 
This case law stands for the proposition that Tidhar may owe a duty to
the injured parties, i.e., Plaintiffs. 
However, counsel for Bartlett alleges no basis to find any duty from
Tidhar to Bartlett as a result of Plaintiffs’ injury.  Similarly, Barlett alleges no injury or
damages to Bartlett as a result of Tidhar’s alleged failure to act.  At heart, this cause of action is nothing
more than an equitable indemnity claim because Bartlett is seeking to recover
for its damages stemming from Plaintiffs’ claims against Bartlett as a result
of the known dangers posed by Tripp. 
Therefore, the Court sustains the demurrer to the second cause of action
without leave to amend.  
 
4.         Equitable Indemnity and Equitable
Contribution – To state a claim
for indemnity against Tidhar, Bartlett must allege that it may be held liable
for harm to Plaintiffs that is attributable, in whole or in part, to Tidhar’s
actions or omissions.  (Platt v.
Coldwell Banker Residential Real Estate Services (1990) 217 Cal. App. 3d
1439, 1445, fn. 7.)  Defendant alleges
Tidhar caused Bartlett’s alleged harm by failing to address Tripp’s
misconduct.  (Cross-Complaint, ¶¶ 38-39.)  These allegations state a claim for equitable
indemnity against Tidhar.  For the same reason, Defendant’s fourth cause
of action for contribution suffices. 
(See General Elec. Co. v. State of Cal. ex rel. Dept. Pub. Wks. (1973)
32 Cal.App.3d 918, 825.)  Therefore, the
demurrer to the third and fourth causes of action is overruled.
 
5.         Declaratory Relief – Barlett’s
claim for declaratory relief is not appropriate because Bartlett has causes of
action for breach of contract, equitable indemnity, and equitable contribution.  A declaratory relief action is
inappropriate when a plaintiff has an adequate remedy on other causes of action
at trial.  (See
Hood v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 319, 324; California Ins.
Guarantee Assn. v. Superior Court (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1617, 1624.)  
 
            The declaratory relief statute
should not be used for the purpose of anticipating and determining an issue
which can be determined in the main action. 
The object of the statute is to afford a new form of relief where needed
and not to furnish a litigant with a second cause of action for the
determination of identical issues.
 
(General of America Ins. Co.
v. Lilly (1968) 258 Cal.App.2d 465, 470.) 
The Court has discretion to decline to issue a declaratory judgment
under these circumstances.  (See AICCO,
Inc. v. Insurance Company of North America (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 579,
590.)  Therefore, the demurrer to the
fifth cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 

            Based upon the foregoing, the Court
orders as follows:
 
            1.         The
Court grants Bartlett’s motion for leave to file a cross-complaint and orders
that the cross-complaint, dated March 27, 2023, shall not be stricken.
 
            2.         The
Court denies Tidhar’s motion to strike.
 
            3.         The
Court sustains Tidhar’s demurrer with respect to the second and fifth causes of
action without leave to amend.
 
            4.         The
Court overrules Tidhar’s demurrer with respect to the first, third, and fourth
causes of action.
 
            5.         Tidhar
shall file an answer within thirty (30) days.
 
            6.         Counsel
for Tidhar shall provide notice and file proof of such with the Court.      
 
 
             
            
 