 Case Number:  23STCV12356    Hearing Date:   May 13, 2024    Dept:  49 Melani Cargle M.D., M.B.A. v. The County of Los Angeles, et al.DEFENDANT THE REGENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA’S DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT MOVING PARTY: Defendant The Regents of the University of California (“Regents”)RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Melani CargleSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: Plaintiff Melani Cargle obtained her medical degree from UCLA. Plaintiff alleges she is “African American, female, and queer,” and suffers from ADHD. While attending medical school, Plaintiff alleges a supervising physician, Dr. Louis Kwong, M.D., carried a concealed firearm in the hospital and frequently made racist, sexist, and homophobic remarks. Plaintiff complained to medical school leadership, but the issues were never resolved. Plaintiff alleges that in November or December of 2019, she published a detailed complaint of Dr. Kwong in the Orthopedic-Match Document, which resulted in an investigation of Dr. Kwong. Plaintiff alleges she was later passed for a residency at UCLA based on her complaints. In March 2020, Plaintiff started her residency at USC/Keck. As part of her residency, Plaintiff was required to obtain employment with the County. Plaintiff alleges she faced abuse and racism at the hands of supervising physicians, and that the program failed to offer her accommodations for her ADHD. On May 19, 2022, the County provided Plaintiff with a Notice of Intent to Discharge. The County cited alleged “discourteous, unprofessional, and unethical conduct towards co-workers and patients” and “failure to perform duties as required” as reasons for Plaintiff’s intended discharge.After her discharge, Plaintiff made posts on Twitter about the program and started a GoFundMe. In or about June of 2022, Plaintiff alleges the County sent out a county-wide email, also posted on twitter, personally attacking Plaintiff by name.Plaintiff now brings causes of action for (1) discrimination on the basis of race, sex, or sexual orientation, (2) harassment on the basis of race, sex, or sexual orientation, (3) discrimination on the basis of disability, (4) retaliation, (5) Violation of Health and Safety Code section 1278.5, (6) wrongful termination, (7) failure to reasonably accommodate, (8) failure to engage in the interactive process, (9) aiding and abetting, and (10) defamation.Defendant Regents now demurrers to the ninth cause of action in the FAC for aiding and abetting. Plaintiff opposed.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendant’s Demurrer to the Ninth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED. Generally speaking, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) Because it appears here that no reasonable possibility of successful amendment exists, no leave to amend is given.Defendant’s Demurrer to punitive damages is OVERRULED.Defendant Regents are ordered to file an Answer to the FAC within 21 days.Defendant is ordered to give notice, unless waived.DISCUSSION:DemurrerI. Meet and ConferThe declaration of attorney Adrienne T. Subido reflects that Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond to defense counsel’s meet and confer attempts, which demonstrates the lack of any substantive meet and confer. This court exercises its discretion to consider the motion absent a sufficient meet and confer. The parties are admonished to comply with all meet and confer obligations in good faith going forward.II. Legal StandardA demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.)  When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.  (Taylor v. City of Los Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.)  In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial notice.  (CCP § 430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153 Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed.  (Id.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.  (Hahn, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)III. AnalysisA. Demurrer to Ninth Cause of ActionDefendant Regents demurrers to Plaintiff’s Ninth Cause of Action for aiding and abetting. Defendant argues the claim fails because it is a public entity that is immune from common law torts like aiding and abetting.“Except as otherwise provided by statute,” a public entity “is not liable for an injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or a public employee or any other person.” (Govt. Code § 815(a).) “As that language indicates, the intent of the Tort Claims Act is to confine potential governmental liability, not expand it.” (Eastburn v. Reg'l Fire Prot. Auth. (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1175, 1179.) “If the Legislature has not created a statutory basis for it, there is no government tort liability.” (State ex rel. Dep't of California Highway Patrol v. Superior Ct. (2015) 60 Cal. 4th 1002, 1009.)Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Regents “aided and abetted Defendants County; LACDHS; LAC + USC; USC; USC KSOM; and DOES in their various tortious activities,” which includes “discrimination and harassment on the basis of race, sex, and/or sexualOrientation,” among other things. (FAC ¶ 176.) In opposition, Plaintiff argues that because her aiding and abetting claim is “derived from” the statutory claims asserted against the other Defendants, Defendant is not immune from the claim. Plaintiff notes that a claim for aiding and abetting is not a “standalone” claim, as it is generally dependent on the existence of an underlying tort. (See Nasrawi v. Buck Consultants LLC (2014) 231 Cal. App. 4th 328, 344 [“there can be no aiding and abetting liability absent the commission of an underlying tort”].)While the point is a fair one, Plaintiff has provided no authority clearly recognizing liability against the government for aiding and abetting. Just as a claim against the government must be established by statute, this court also suspects that a claim for aiding and abetting must also be provided by statute. There is no clear indication here that the legislature has done so for any of the claims here. (See, e.g., Vernon v. State of California (2004) 116 Cal. App. 4th 114, 13 [holding that “liability cannot be imposed upon the State under the aiding and abetting provisions of the FEHA”].) Accordingly, Defendant’s Demurrer to the Ninth Cause of Action is SUSTAINED. Generally speaking, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) Because it appears here that no possibility of successful amendment exists, no leave to amend is given.B. Demurrer to Punitive DamagesDefendant also demurrers to Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages. It is well settled that the appropriate vehicle to attack a request for punitive damages is a motion to strike, not a demurrer. A general demurrer challenges only the sufficiency of the cause of action pleaded and must be overruled if any valid cause of action is pleaded; a demand for improper relief does not vitiate an otherwise valid cause of action. (Venice Town Council, Inc. v. City of Los Angeles (1996) 47 Cal. App. 4th 1547, 1561-1562; see also Grieves v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157 Cal. App. 3d 159, 163 [“Since a demurrer does not lie to a part of a cause of action[,] …punitive damage allegations [are] not subject to real parties' demurrers”].)Accordingly, on that procedural basis alone, Defendant’s Demurrer to punitive damages is OVERRULED.  Of course, The Regents are certainly free to attack the punitive damages request against it by means of a motion for summary adjudication, if warranted under the applicable law and facts. See, C.C.P. § 437c (f)(1).IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   May 13, 2024 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior Court Any party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.