 Case Number:  24NNCP00134    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:     11 Date:               6/14/2024Case No: 24 NNCP00134Case Name: Apollo Mathers, LLC v. Certain Statutory Interested Parties, etc.PETITION FOR APPROVAL FOR TRANSFER OF STRUCTURED SETTLEMENT PAYMENT RIGHTS Moving Party:                Petitioner Apollo Mathers, LLC    Responding Party:    No OppositionRELIEF REQUESTED:  Approve transfer of structured settlement payment rights by and between Dawn Edwards, as payee, and Apollo Mathers, LLC, as transferee. ANALYSIS:ProceduralCopies of Documents Under Insurance Code § 10139.5:“ (f)  (1) A petition under this article for approval of a transfer of structured settlement payment rights shall be made by the transferee and brought in the county in which the payee resides at the time the transfer agreement is signed by the payee, or, if the payee is not domiciled in California, in the county in which the payee resides or in the county where the structured settlement obligor or annuity issuer is domiciled. (2) Not less than 20 days prior to the scheduled hearing on any petition for approval of a transfer of structured settlement payment rights under this article, the transferee shall file with the court and serve on all interested parties a notice of the proposed transfer and the petition for its authorization, and shall include the following with that notice:    (A) A copy of the transferee's current petition and any other prior petition, whether approved or withdrawn, that was filed with the court in accordance with paragraph (6) of subdivision (c).    (B) A copy of the proposed transfer agreement and disclosure form required by paragraph (3) of subdivision (a).    (C) A listing of each of the payee's dependents, together with each dependent's age.    (D) A copy of the disclosure required in subdivision (b) of Section 10136.   (E) A copy of the annuity contract, if available.    (F) A copy of any qualified assignment agreement, if available.    (G) A copy of the underlying structured settlement agreement, if available.    (H) If a copy of a document described in subparagraph (E), (F), or (G) is unavailable or cannot be located, then the transferee is not required to attach a copy of that document to the petition or notice of the proposed transfer if the transferee satisfies the court that reasonable efforts to locate and secure a copy of the document have been made, including making inquiry with the payee. If the documents are available, but contain a confidentiality or nondisclosure provision, then the transferee shall summarize in the petition the payments due and owing to the payee, and, if requested by the court, shall provide copies of the documents to the court at a scheduled hearing.” Here, the petition fails to include a copy of the annuity contract or the underlying settlement agreement.   The First Amended Petition includes a Declaration in Lieu of Settlement Agreement of Dawn B. Edwards, in which Edwards states that the assigned payments are due to her as a result of a wrongful death claim, as in 1997 her mother and sister lost their lives in a car accident, and a lawsuit was filed on her behalf in Cook County, Illinois. Edwards indicates that she has diligently searched for the underlying settlement agreement, contacted the annuity issuer and structured settlement obligor, and searched her own records, but does not have a copy of the Settlement Agreement.  [Sanchez Decl., Ex. A., Decl. in Lieu, paras. 2, 3].  The Declaration of petitioner Apollo’s company service representative, Lucia Sanchez, also states that she has contacted the payee, the annuity issuer, and requested court records, and that after diligent effort does not believe there are other reasonable means of obtaining the missing documents.  [Sanchez Decl., para. 1(b)].   The court finds that reasonable efforts have been made to locate and secure copies of the missing documents.   In addition, the petition fails to include copies of the records of two previous transfer attempts.       Under Insurance Code § 10139.5“(c) Every petition for approval of a transfer of structured settlement payment rights, except as inquiry with the payee, all of the following:  “(6) Information regarding previous transfers or attempted transfers, as described in paragraph (11), (12), or (13) of subdivision (b). The transferee or payee may choose to provide this information by providing copies of pleadings, transaction documents, or orders involving any previous attempted or completed transfer or by providing the court a summary of available information regarding any previous transfer or attempted transfer, such as the date of the transfer or attempted transfer, the payments transferred or attempted to be transferred by the payee in the earlier transaction, the amount of money received by the payee in connection with the previous transaction, and generally the payee's reasons for pursuing or completing a previous transaction. The transferee's inability to provide the information required by this paragraph shall not preclude the court from approving the proposed transfer, if the court determines that the information is not available to the transferee after the transferee has made a reasonable effort to secure the information, including making an inquiry with the payee.”The Sanchez Declaration provides a summary of the previous transactions, without documentation.  [Sanchez Decl., para. 7].  The Sanchez declaration describes the prior transfers, from 2005, which were both approved.  However, there is no indication what sums were obtained by Edwards in connection with the previous transfer, or for what the funds were used previously.  The Edwards Declaration submitted with the First Amended Petition indicates that she previously assigned a portion of her structured settlement payments, with the last transfer completed in 2008, when the Sanchez declaration indicates that both previous transfers were made in 2005.  [Edwards Decl., para. 6].  No further details are provided by Edwards.  [Id.]  The court finds that the summaries in the declarations satisfy the statutory requirements.    Substantive The petition seeks approval of a transfer of certain structured settlement payment rights held by transferor Dawn Edwards pursuant to a structured settlement entered into on behalf of Edwards, intended as compensation for a wrongful death claim, arising from an incident in 1997, when Edwards’ mother and sister were killed in a car accident.  [Edwards Decl., para. 3].    Edwards is now 51 years old, married, and has one dependent, Devon Edwards (50 years old).  [Edwards Decl., para. 4].  She is currently on disability and receives $998.00 per month from SSDI, and her husband is a film post-production executive earning $6,250 per month. [Edwards Decl., para. 4].  Edwards does not rely on the structured settlement payments she is proposing to assign for her day-to-day living expenses.   [Edwards Decl., para. 4].  Edwards has no court ordered child support or maintenance obligations. [Edwards Decl., para. 5].  Edwards has previously assigned a portion of her structured settlement payments rights, with the last transfer being in 2008.  [Edwards Decl., para. 6].  The current proposed transaction is with Apollo Mathers, LLC.  Edwards is transferring 215 monthly life-contingent payments of $915.00 beginning February 15, 2032, through and including December 15, 2049.  The total dollar amount of payments being sold is $196,725.00, with a discounted present value of $85,420.67.   The net amount to be paid to Edwards is $18,860.43, with no deduction for expenses. The effective equivalent interest rate being paid on the transaction is 17.2% per year.     Edwards states that the funds will be used to pay off credit card debt and medical bills.  [Edwards Decl., para. 7].  Edwards explains that she and her husband fell behind on their bills when the husband was unable to work due to Covid-19 and the writer’s strike, so that they had to take on debt to cover their monthly living expenses.  [Edwards Decl., para. 7].  She indicates that with their current sources of income, they are able to cover their monthly expenses, but are not able to cover both current expenses and also pay off the prior debt.  [Id.].  Edwards indicates that she feels it is in her best interest to enter into this transaction so that she can have the financial means to provide for the foregoing, and also indicates that since the payments she is assigning are due more than seven years from now, she does not rely on the payments for her current wellbeing, and feels that the funds from the transaction can be better used today rather than to provide support several years from now. [Edwards Decl., paras. 7, 8].   Under Insurance Code section 10137(a):“A transfer of structured settlement payment rights is void unless a court reviews and approves the transfer and finds the following conditions are met: (a) The transfer of the structured settlement payment rights is fair and reasonable and in the best interest of the payee, taking into account the welfare and support of his or her dependents. (b) The transfer complies with the requirements of this article, will not contravene other applicable law, and the court has reviewed and approved the transfer as provided in Section 10139.5.”Insurance Code section 10139.5 provides the factors to be considered by the court in determining whether to approve the transfer of a structured settlement.  The highlighted factors are those which are of some concern in connection with this petition. (a) A direct or indirect transfer of structured settlement payment rights is not effective and a structured settlement obligor or annuity issuer is not required to make any payment directly or indirectly to any transferee of structured settlement payment rights unless the transfer has been approved in advance in a final court order based on express written findings by the court that: (1) The transfer is in the best interest of the payee, taking into account the welfare and support of the payee's dependents. (2) The payee has been advised in writing by the transferee to seek independent professional advice regarding the transfer and has either received that advice or knowingly waived, in writing, the opportunity to receive the advice. (3) The transferee has complied with the notification requirements pursuant to paragraph (2) of subdivision (f), the transferee has provided the payee with a disclosure form that complies with Section 10136, and the transfer agreement complies with Sections 10136 and 10138. (4) The transfer does not contravene any applicable statute or the order of any court or other government authority. (5) The payee understands the terms of the transfer agreement, including the terms set forth in the disclosure statement required by Section 10136. (6) The payee understands and does not wish to exercise the payee's right to cancel the transfer agreement.(b) When determining whether the proposed transfer should be approved, including whether the transfer is fair, reasonable, and in the payee's best interest, taking into account the welfare and support of the payee's dependents, the court shall consider the totality of the circumstances, including, but not limited to, all of the following: (1) The reasonable preference and desire of the payee to complete the proposed transaction, taking into account the payee's age, mental capacity, legal knowledge, and apparent maturity level. (2) The stated purpose of the transfer. (3) The payee's financial and economic situation. (4) The terms of the transaction, including whether the payee is transferring monthly or lump sum payments or all or a portion of his or her future payments. (5) Whether, when the settlement was completed, the future periodic payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer were intended to pay for the future medical care and treatment of the payee relating to injuries sustained by the payee in the incident that was the subject of the settlement and whether the payee still needs those future payments to pay for that future care and treatment. (6) Whether, when the settlement was completed, the future periodic payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer were intended to provide for the necessary living expenses of the payee and whether the payee still needs the future structured settlement payments to pay for future necessary living expenses. (7) Whether the payee is, at the time of the proposed transfer, likely to require future medical care and treatment for the injuries that the payee sustained in connection with the incident that was the subject of the settlement and whether the payee lacks other resources, including insurance, sufficient to cover those future medical expenses. (8) Whether the payee has other means of income or support, aside from the structured settlement payments that are the subject of the proposed transfer, sufficient to meet the payee's future financial obligations for maintenance and support of the payee's dependents, specifically including, but not limited to, the payee's child support obligations, if any. The payee shall disclose to the transferee and the court his or her court-ordered child support or maintenance obligations for the court's consideration. (9) Whether the financial terms of the transaction, including the discount rate applied to determine the amount to be paid to the payee, the expenses and costs of the transaction for both the payee and the transferee, the size of the transaction, the available financial alternatives to the payee to achieve the payee's stated objectives, are fair and reasonable. (10) Whether the payee completed previous transactions involving the payee's structured settlement payments and the timing and size of the previous transactions and whether the payee was satisfied with any previous transaction. (11) Whether the transferee attempted previous transactions involving the payee's structured settlement payments that were denied, or that were dismissed or withdrawn prior to a decision on the merits, within the past five years. (12) Whether, to the best of the transferee's knowledge after making inquiry with the payee, the payee has attempted structured settlement payment transfer transactions with another person or entity, other than the transferee, that were denied, or which were dismissed or withdrawn prior to a decision on the merits, within the past five years. (13) Whether the payee, or his or her family or dependents, are in or are facing a hardship situation. (14) Whether the payee received independent legal or financial advice regarding the transaction. The court may deny or defer ruling on the petition for approval of a transfer of structured settlement payment rights if the court believes that the payee does not fully understand the proposed transaction and that independent legal or financial advice regarding the transaction should be obtained by the payee. (15) Any other factors or facts that the payee, the transferee, or any other interested party calls to the attention of the reviewing court or that the court determines should be considered in reviewing the transfer.” The highlighted factors are of concern here.  The payee’s only dependent is evidently her husband, who is earning a living in film post-production.   It appears that the intent of the funds to compensate for the wrongful death of Edward’s mother is no longer of such pressing concern.  However, there is no copy of the annuity contract submitted or any benefits letter, and it appears that the payments being sold extend far enough into the future that Edwards may not realistically have any further opportunity to obtain funds from this annuity.  It is not clear if Edwards is aware of this consideration, and this issue will be discussed at the hearing. This deal, is, as usual, not a particularly favorable transaction for the transferor, but it appears that payee’s living conditions may be stable, and the funds will be used to pay off expensive credit card debt rather than further burden the household budget.     There is no annuity contract submitted, so it is not clear if the contract includes a nonassignment clause, as was typical at the time the structured settlement was entered.    The First Amended Petition itself appears to concede that the contract includes a nonassignment clause:“Petitioner is informed and believes and upon that basis alleges that the underlying structured settlement that established the annuity at issue in the present case contained language that restricted and/or prohibited the right and/or power to assign the Assigned Payments in question.”[First Amended Petition, para. 7].The issue of whether non-assignment clauses bar a structured settlement transfer such as the one at issue here, has been addressed by case law, and the court of appeal has concluded that where notice has been provided to the interested parties, and no objection is made, the court is authorized to consider the petition regardless of the existence of a non-assignment clause:“The superior court, however, did conclude that public policy bars the waiver of the contractual antiassignment clauses with respect to factoring transactions. We disagree. We conclude that California Uniform Commercial Code section 9408 evidences a public policy against antiassignment provisions in general and that the SSTA, Insurance Code section 10136 et seq., evidences a public policy in favor of court-approved factoring transactions.  Thus, public policy favors the legal conclusion that antiassignment provisions do not bar court-approved transfers of structured settlement payments.Therefore, we conclude that, where no interested parties object to the transfer of structured settlement payment rights, the antiassignment provisions in the annuity contract, settlement agreement or other related contracts do not bar the factoring transaction at issue in this appeal.321 Henderson Receivables Origination LLC v. Sioteco (2009) 173 Cal. App.4th 1059, 1075-1076.  The problem here is that without the annuity contract, or any document including a service address for the annuity holder, the court cannot confirm that the service address of the moving papers is an appropriate address for service on and notice to the interested party annuity holder, evidently Fidelity & Guaranty Life Assignment, LLC. [First Amended Petition, para. 3].  The court will inquire at the hearing concerning why the service address was used, whether the parties can confirm that the interested parties, specifically the annuity company, have received appropriate notice of the petition hearing to object, and whether petitioner expects any objection to the transaction.  RULING:First Amended Petition for Approval for Transfer of Structured Settlement Payment Rights:The Court has the following questions for the petitioner and transferor:What efforts made to obtain annuity agreement, settlement agreement, copies of documents reflecting previous transfers? How much did the payee receive in exchange for the previous two transfers?  How were the funds used? Is Dawn Edwards’ only dependent her husband? Is this realistically the last opportunity for Dawn Edwards to transfer funds from her annuity, and is payee aware of this?  How was the service address for the annuity holder and all interested parties determined?Is petitioner aware of any potential objection to the petition? First Amended Petition for Approval for Transfer of Structured Settlement Payment Rights is GRANTED.  DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 