 Case Number:  23VECV01205    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  W LISA DOTSON,
et al. vs DALIA TAN, et al.
 
demurrer with motion to strike complaint
 
Date of Hearing:        January 11, 2024                               Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        23VECV01205
 
Moving Party:            Defendants
Anahit Aghazarian and Apgear Properties, Inc. 
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs
Lisa Dotson and Kyle Dotson 
Meet and Confer:      Yes
(Bowen Decl.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a habitability case. Plaintiffs
allege Defendants failed to adequately fix or remediate habitability issues or
remediated them late. On March 17, 2023 filed a complaint against Defendants
for 1. Breach of Contract/Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment/Warranty of Habitability
2. Tortious Breach of The Implied Warranty of Habitability 3. Negligence 4.
Private Nuisance 5. Violation of California Civil Code Section 1942.4 6.
Violation of California Civil Code Section 1950.5 7. Violation of Unfair
Business Practices 8. Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress 9. Constructive
Eviction 10. Tenant Harassment
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants
Anahit Aghazarian and Apgear Properties, Inc.’s Demurrer to the Complaint is
OVERRULED. Defendants Defendants Anahit Aghazarian and Apgear Properties,
Inc.’s Motion to Strike is DENIED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants Anahit Aghazarian and Apgear
Properties, Inc.  demur to the eighth
cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress on the grounds
the claim fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. Defendants
also seek to strike portions of Plaintiffs’ complaint for punitive/exemplary
damages. 
 
The elements of an intentional
infliction of emotional distress cause of action are: (1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) intention to cause or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress; (3) severe
emotional suffering; and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress. (See Moncada v. West Coast Quartz Corp. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th
768, 780; Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.) To satisfy
the element of extreme and outrageous conduct, defendant’s conduct “‘must be so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
society.’” (Moncada, supra, 221 Cal.App.4th at 780 (quoting Trerice
v. Blue Cross of California (1989) 209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883).)  
 
The California Supreme Court has held
that a defendant’s actions could be characterized as "outrageous" for
purposes of tort liability for intentional infliction of emotional distress, if
he “(1) abuses a relation or position which gives him power to damage the
plaintiff's interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is susceptible to injuries
through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or unreasonably with the
recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness through mental
distress.” (Agarwal v. Johnson (1979) 25 Cal.3d 932, 946 [overruled on
other grounds].)
 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs’ facts lack
the necessary specificity and instead, Plaintiffs rely on legal conclusions
which fail to meet the requisite pleading standard. Specifically, Defendants
contend the alleged wrongful conduct of Apegar does not rise to conduct so
extreme and outrageous so as to exceed the bounds of decency and is not regarded
as atrocious and utterly intolerable in a civilized community. Allegedly
failing to timely remediate habitability issues in 2020 during a global
pandemic is not extreme and outrageous conduct.
 
The court disagrees. Plaintiffs alleged Defendants failed to
maintain their Property in a habitable condition (and what those inhabitable
conditions included), that Plaintiffs complained to Defendants about the
unlawful and substandard conditions, and Defendants refused to repair the
Subject Property as requested despite knowing that Plaintiffs were suffering
and knowing that the Property was uninhabitable and untenantable. Several cases
have found intentional or willful failures to remediate the substandard
conditions causing Plaintiffs emotional distress sufficient to support a claim
for IIED.  Moreover, the complaint
alleges Plaintiffs suffered “illness, physical injury, extreme mental and
emotional distress, discomfort, annoyance, anxiety, loss in the value of their
leasehold, property damage, medical expenses, out of pocket costs[.]” (Compl.
¶47.) (See, e.g., Girard v. Ball (1981) 125 Cal.App.3d 772, 787-88
[emotional distress must be of “such substantial quality or enduring quality
that no reasonable [person] in civilized society should be expected to endure
it”].)
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer is
OVERRULED. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
Defendants also move to strike portions
of the Complaint relating to claims for punitive and exemplary damages on the
grounds the cited portions constitute irrelevant, false, or improper matter, conclusions
of law, items of non-recoverable damages, and/or are not supported by the
facts.
 
California Civil Code section 3294
authorizes the recovery of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .” (Civ. Code §
3294(a).)  
 
“‘Malice’ means conduct which is
intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Id. § 3294(c)(1).)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Civ. Code §
3294(c)(2).) “Fraud” means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to defendant with the intention on the
part of defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or
otherwise causing injury. (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(3).) 
 
Punitive damages thus require more than
the mere commission of a tort. (See Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24
Cal.3d 890, 894-95.) And, specific facts must be pleaded in support of punitive
damages. (See Hillard v. A.H. Robins Co. (1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374,
391-92.)  
 
Defendants argue Plaintiffs have failed
to state colorable facts upon which to base their claim for punitive damages. Specifically,
the complaint fails to contain any factual allegations that demonstrate (i)
“despicable conduct” on the part of Apegar; or, (ii) aggravating circumstances,
amounting to malice; or, (iii) circumstances and/or actions, conceived in
spirit of mischief or with criminal indifference towards obligations owed to
others. (Ebaugh v. Rabkin (1972) 22 Cal.App.3d 891, 894.) Defendants
contend Plaintiffs merely allege boilerplate legal conclusions that Apegar’s conduct
was malicious and oppressive, which is not sufficient to support a prayer for
punitive damages. 
 
As previously noted, although Plaintiff’s
complaint is sparse, this factual scenario is sufficient to support a claim for
punitive damages at the pleading stage. (Spinks v. Equity Residential
Briarwood Apartments (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1055.) In summary, the
complaint alleges that Plaintiffs informed Defendants of the bedbug infestation
as well as the other habitability issues, Defendants failed to correct it, and
permitted it with the knowledge of the consequences thereof. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion to
Strike is DENIED. 
 
 