 Case Number:  23VECV00760    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  W LILACH
BASSON, ET AL. V. KRYSTAL BURNS, ET AL.
 
DEFENDANTS KRYSTAL BURNS AND GLORY PROJECT LLC’S DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE PLAINTIFF’S COMPLAINT 
 
Date of Hearing:        January
11, 2024                                           Trial Date:       None set.
Department:              W                                                                    Case
No.:        23VECV00760
 
Moving Party:            Defendants
Krystal Burns and Glory Project LLC
Responding Party:     Plaintiffs
Lilach Basson, Yacov Serazi, and Noam Sherazi 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 17, 2023,
Plaintiffs Lilach Basson, Yacov Serazi, and Noam Sherazi, a minor by his
Guardian Ad Litem Lilach Basson, filed a complaint against Defendants Krystal
Burns, Norma Burns, and Glory Project LLC for assault, battery, intentional
infliction of emotional distress, negligent infliction of emotional distress,
and interference with tenancy. Plaintiff Yacov leases property from Defendant
Glory Project, LLC. Plaintiff Lilach Basson alleges when she was visiting her
husband’s office with Noam, their son, Basson was physically and verbally
attacked by Defendants Norma and Krystal Burns. Defendant Krystal Burns manages
the property. 
 
Default was entered against
Defendant Norma Burns on April 13, 2023. On April 24, 2023, default was entered
against Defendants Krystal Burns and Glory Project LLC. The court set aside the
default entered against Defendants Krystal Burns and Glory Project LLC on June
22, 2023. On December 11, 2023, the court set aside the default against Norma
Burns. 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING:
 
Defendants’ Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED.
Defendants’ Motion to Strike is 
DENIED.
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs request this court take judicial
notice of the Declaration of Yacov Serazi filed May 29, 2023. 
 
Defendants object to the request for judicial notice on the grounds
the declaration and attached documents seek judicial notice of disputed
material facts outside the four corners of Plaintiffs’ Complaint. The request
is also improper because Plaintiffs failed to provide any legal authority or
arguments to identify the ground(s) upon which they seek judicial notice of documents.

 
These objections are overruled.  The court takes judicial notice of the
existence of the documents only. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendants Krystal Burns and Glory Project LLC demur to the
complaint of Plaintiffs Lilach Basson, Yacov Serazi, and Noam Sherazi on the
grounds the sixth cause of action for interference with tenancy fails to state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.[1]
 
Defendants argue Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action fails to
allege any information regarding the underlying lease or its terms involving
the former property owner and Joshua & Associates or whether the former
property owner approved the sublease. Defendants further contend the complaint
does not include the material terms of the alleged lease or sublease. Neither
contract is attached to the complaint. Defendants contend the failure to attach
the written lease contract and the written sublease contract violates the
statue of frauds and Civil Code section 1624.
 
Under the applicable statute of frauds, leases longer than
one year or for the sale of real property are invalid unless it is memorialized
by a writing signed by the party to be charged. 
(Civ. Code § 1624(a)(3).) Because Plaintiff Serazi seeks to enforce
rights as a multi-year tenant of the subject Tarzana real property, Defendants
contend Plaintiff has failed to satisfy the statute of frauds. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue this is not a case where the
enforceability of Yacov Sherazi’s sublease is an issue. Moreover, the statute
of frauds is not available to third persons who are not parties to the agreement
and even so, the complaint pleaded the existence of a sublease with the legal
effect and provided a copy of the sublease attached to Yacov Serazi’s
declaration in the default prove-up package. 
 
The court finds based on the allegations, Plaintiff has
stated facts sufficient to support a claim for constructive eviction.  Plaintiff has alleged the existence of a
sublease agreement with which defendants allegedly interfered.  Plaintiff was not required to attach the
written agreement because plaintiff set forth the material terms.  (Complaint, paras. 14-16.)   The court need not address the question of
whether the statute of frauds applies in this case, as it is plaintiffs’
position that a written agreement does exist. 

 
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to the sixth cause of
action is OVERRULED. 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendants move to strike portions of Plaintiffs’ complaint
regarding punitive damages on the grounds the specified portions of Plaintiffs’
Complaint constitute irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in the complaint.

 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (CCP § 436(a).) The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., §
436(b).) The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has
irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in
conformity with laws. (CCP § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear
on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (CCP § 437.) 
 
California Civil Code section 3294 authorizes the recovery
of punitive damages in non-contract cases where “the defendant has been guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice . . . .” (Civ. Code § 3294(a).)  
 
“‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the defendant
to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by
the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” (Id. § 3294(c)(1).) “Oppression” means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights. (Civ. Code § 3294(c)(2).) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to defendant
with the intention on the part of defendant of thereby depriving a person of
property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (Civ. Code §
3294(c)(3).) 
 
Defendants first argue Plaintiff Serazi’s claim for
statutory damages under Civil Code section 789.3 is improper because the
alleged sub lease concerns commercial office space. Civil Code section 789.3
provides “A landlord shall not with intent to terminate the occupancy under any
lease or other tenancy or estate at will, however created, of property used by
a tenant as his residence willfully cause, directly or indirectly, the
interruption or termination of any utility service furnished the tenant, including,
but not limited to, water, heat, light, electricity, gas, telephone, elevator,
or refrigeration, whether or not the utility service is under the control of
the landlord.” 
 
Plaintiffs agree to strike any reference to Civil Code
section 789.3. 
 
Next, Defendants argue the allegations in Plaintiffs’
Complaint show a mutual altercation at a commercial property. Under these
particular facts, oppression, fraud or malice is not demonstrated to support a
claim for punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294 against Defendants.
Moreover, allegations against a corporate employer for punitive damages require
detailed factual pleadings which are absent from Plaintiffs’ complaint. 
 
The court finds Plaintiffs have alleged sufficient
allegations to support a claim for punitive damages against the individual
defendants, and against the LLC. Plaintiffs allege Defendant Krystal put her
hands around Plaintiff Lila’s neck, in front of Lila’s son (Noam), and at one
point, Defendant Norma grabbed Plaintiff Noam around the throat. Plaintiffs
allege Defendants did this with the intent to cause Plaintiffs pain. Accordingly,
the court finds complaint alleges that Defendant Krystal Burns committed the
acts with malice and in conscious disregard of their safety. 
 
Because Krystal Burns is alleged to be a manager and member
of the LLC, she would be deemed to exercise substantial discretionary authority
in that role over the LLC’s business either as a member-owner, or as a manager
(Swart Enterprises, Inc. v. Franchise Tax Bd. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th
670, 679), making the corporation potentially liable for punitive damages under
Section 3294.  (Powerhouse Motorsports
Group, Inc. v. Yamaha Motor Corp., U.S.A. (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th
867.)  These allegations are sufficient
to allow the request for punitive damages to stand.  
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ motion to strike is DENIED. 


