  Case Number:  23VECV00449    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  W SANTOS
POCASANGRE v. GROSS-RESEDA COMPANY, LLC
 
defendant/cross-complainant gross-reseda company,
llc’s motion for protective order
 
Date
of Hearing:        January 11, 2024                   Trial Date:       October
7, 2024 
Department:              W                                            Case No.:        23VECV00449
 
Moving Party:            Defendant/Cross-Complainant Gross-Reseda Company LLC
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Santos Pocasangre  
Meet and Confer:      Yes. (Saracyan Decl. ¶7.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a premises liability action. Plaintiff
Santos Pocasangre alleges Defendant Gross-Reseda Company LLC negligently,
carelessly, recklessly and unlawfully controlled, operated, owned and/or
maintained the subject property and failed to take reasonable steps to
maintain, prevent, warn or to correct a dangerous condition on the subject
property. As a result, Plaintiff alleges she slipped and fell causing injury to
Plaintiff. On February 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed her complaint for negligence
and premises liability. 
 
On April 20, 2023, Defendant Gross-Reseda Company
LLC filed a cross-complaint against Roes 1-100 for 1. Implied Contractual
Indemnity; 2. Total Indemnity; 3. Equitable Indemnity; 4. Express Contractual
Indemnity; 5. Breach of Written Contract; 6. Negligence 7. Contribution 8.
Declaratory Relief (Duty to Defend) 9. Declaratory Relief (Duty to Indemnify).
 
[Tentative]
Ruling
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant Gross-Reseda Company,
LLC’s Motino for Protective Order is DENIED. 
 
discusion
 
Plaintiff Santos Pocasangre moves for a protective
order striking and/or restricting Plaintiff’s use of discovery, specifically,
that Plaintiff's Special Interrogatories, Set Five; Requests for Admission, Set
Four; and Form Interrogatories, Set Four, propounded to Defendant need not be
answered at all. Defendant makes the motion on the grounds Plaintiff's second
set of discovery requests propounded to Gross are duplicative, cumulative,
financially burdensome, harassing, expensive, and not likely to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence. 
 
A court may make any order that justice requires to
protect a party from “unwanted annoyance, embarrassment or oppression or undue
burden and expense.”  (CCP §2030.090(b).)  The burden of proof
is on the party seeking the protective order to show “good cause” for the order
he or she seeks.  (Fairmont Insurance Co. v. Superior Court (2000)
22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)  A motion for a protective order “shall be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (CCP
§2030.090.)  “A meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall
state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”  (CCP
§2016.040.)   
 
Defendant argues the additional discovery requests are
unduly burdensome and harassing as it is voluminous, replete with requests that
are duplicative, seek information that necessarily implicates consultant/expert
work product and opinion. Defendant contends Plaintiff seems to be dissatisfied
with the responses that have been previously provided in written and oral
discovery, and attempts to take a second bite at the apple with these
additional requests. For example, the definition of "supervision" and
"control" and the specific contract language, maintenance, inspection
and issues that arise at the subject property were already answered by the PMK
for Gross during her deposition on September 6, 2023; however, 
 
In opposition[1],
Plaintiff argues this action is complex and moreover, expediency is a factor
warranting additional requests as not only they entail less financial burden on
the parties, but they are the most practical approach to conduct an inquiry, investigation,
or search of files or records to supply the information sought. Plaintiff also
argues the discovery is not unreasonable cumulative or duplicative and Defendant
itself has propounded over 120 interrogatories itself.
 
The court agrees finds Defendant has not adequately
shown that Plaintiff’s discovery requests are sufficiently unduly burdensome or
harassing. The discovery includes follow up requests to Defendant’s prior
responses. For example, Special Interrogatory No. 77 sought Defendant to define
the term ‘supervision’ as used in the Addendum to Lease and Special
Interrogatory 89 seeks Defendant to identify the dictionary Defendant is
relying on to define the term ‘supervision’ after Defendant responded “the
definition of ‘supervision’ is most likely the same as it is defined in the dictionary.”
The other additional discovery seeks further information such as specific
inspection policies, tenant responsibilities, and the duty to inspect for
hazardous conditions. Moreover, if the discovery involves expert work product
and/or opinion, Defendant can object on those grounds.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion for Protective Order
is DENIED. 


