  Case Number:  20STCV45494    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIAFOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT WC INSURANCE AGENCY, LLC, et al.,                        Plaintiffs,            vs. JAMES S. BEKHOR INSURANCE SERVICES, INC., et al.,                         Defendants.)))))))))))      CASE NO.: 20STCV45494 [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION Dept. 488:30 a.m.May 6, 2024 On November 25, 2020, Plaintiffs WC Insurance agency LLC, Omni Safe Insurance Agency LLC, and Joshua Sawicki filed this action against Defendants James S. Bekhor Insurance Services Inc. d/b/a Active Insurance and JSB Holdings LLCOn December 12, 2024, Plaintiff Joshua Sawicki filed a motion for summary adjudication.At the March 15, 2024 hearing, the Court ordered the parties to file an amended separate statement and supplemental briefing, and it continued the hearing.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDAll of the Amended Separate Statement’s material facts are undisputed.Effective January 1, 2018, Plaintiff and two of his business entities, WC Insurance Agency LLC d/b/a BMP Insurance and Omni Safe Insurance Agency LLC entered into a Joint Venture Agreement (“JV Agreement”) with Defendants, as well as with James S. Bekhor, the principal of JSB Insurance, for the purpose of jointly acquiring insurance agencies in the business of both personal and commercial insurance lines.  (Undisputed Material Facts “UMF” 1-2.)Plaintiff’s efforts led to the acquisition of four agencies: Mark Benton Insurance Agency Inc. (“Benton Insurance”), New Empire Insurance, Enterprise Insurance Group (“Enterprise Insurance”), and Active Insurance Agency (collectively, the “Acquired Agencies”).  (UMF 18.)  At no time have Defendants or James S. Bekhor paid any Net Profits to Plaintiff, as required by the JV Agreement.  (UMF 21; see UMF 13-15, 17.)On June 18, 2019, counsel for Defendants sent a written notice of termination of the joint venture to Plaintiff and proposed that the parties engage in mediation.  (UMF 68.)  Plaintiff did not agree to Defendants’ terms, and Defendants did not cooperate to conduct a valuation and mediation as required by the JV Agreement.  (UMF 70-71.)DISCUSSIONA plaintiff moving for summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of proof by proving each element of a cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)  Then the burden shifts to the defendant to show that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)  To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce “substantial responsive evidence.”  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 162-163.)A.        Plaintiff Has Shown Entitlement to Specific Performance.The second cause of action is for specific performance of the JV Agreement.  Plaintiff seeks an order requiring Defendants to satisfy their contractual obligations to (1) account for and pay to Sawicki his share of all Net Profits received by Defendants and their Affiliates to date in connection with the operation of all four Acquired Agencies as required by Section 11.01 of the JV Agreement; (2) permit an audit of Defendants’ books and records relating to all four Acquired Agencies as required by Section 11.01 of the JV Agreement; (3) cooperate in the valuation of the parties’ respective interests in the joint venture as of the date of termination of the JV Agreement as required by Section 10.01(c)(ii) of the JV Agreement; and (4) pay to Sawicki the value of his share of the joint venture as of the date of termination of the JV Agreement, as required by Section 10.01(c)(ii) of the JV Agreement.  (Motion at pp. 12-13.)“Specific performance of a contract may be decreed whenever: (1) its terms are sufficiently definite; (2) consideration is adequate; (3) there is substantial similarity of the requested performance to the contractual terms; (4) there is mutuality of remedies; and (5) plaintiff’s legal remedy is inadequate.”  (Blackburn v. Charnley (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 758, 766.)The terms of the contract are definite—and undisputed—in Sections 4.04.1, 4.04.2, 10.01(c)(ii), 10.01(d), and 11.01 of the JV Agreement.  (UMF 8-9, 13-17, 84-85, 89-93.)  The undefined terms of “his share of all Net Profits” and “the value of his share of the joint venture” do not render the terms insufficiently definite.  “‘[F]air market value,’ ‘reasonable value,’ or ‘current market value,’ are sufficiently certain price terms to support specific performance.”  (Goodwest Rubber Corp. v. Munoz (1985) 170 Cal.App.3d 919, 921.)  Additionally, Section 10.01(c)(ii) of the JV Agreement provides that the parties “shall commission an independent valuation of the current value of Bekhor’s and Sawicki’s interest in this Agreement.”The consideration is adequate.  “The proper time for testing the adequacy of consideration is as of the formation of the contract.”  (Henderson v. Fisher (1965) 236 Cal.App.2d 468, 474.)  When entering into the JV Agreement, Plaintiff and Defendants had obligations to participate in the operations and growth of the joint venture, and each would share in the Net Profits and be entitled to a respective share in the value of the joint venture upon its termination.  (See UMF 6-9.)The requested performance completely mirrors the contractual terms.  (See UMF 8-9, 13-17, 84-85, 89-93.)There is mutuality of remedies.  Each party was obligated to perform their obligations under the JV Agreement.  (See, e.g., Converse v. Fong (1984) 159 Cal.App.3d 86, 90 [mutuality of remedies when “there existed a valid agreement, signed by both parties, which obligated them to perform when specific contingencies were satisfied”].)Plaintiff’s legal remedy is inadequate because monetary damages cannot be ascertained without the requested accounting, audit, and valuation.  Defendants did not cooperate with efforts by Plaintiff’s attorneys to conduct a valuation and mediation as required by the JV Agreement, and they never accounted to Plaintiff, paid him Net Profits, or paid him for his share of the joint venture or the Acquired Agencies.  (UMF 71, 147, 150.)  Any valuation would require disclosure of Defendants’ books and records regarding the financial performance of the Acquired Agencies.  (UMF 74, 149.)Accordingly, Plaintiff has met his initial burden of proving all required elements in order to obtain specific performance.B.        Plaintiff Has Proven Defendants’ Contractual Duties.Plaintiff seeks summary adjudication of Defendants’ contractual duties to him under the JV Agreement.  Specifically, Plaintiff seeks an order that Defendants owe him a contractual duty to (1) account for and pay to Plaintiff his share of all Net Profits received by Defendants and their Affiliates to date in connection with the operation of the four Acquired Agencies as required by Section 11.01 of the JV Agreement; (2) permit an audit of Defendants’ books and records relating to all four Acquired Agencies as required by Section 11.01 of the JV Agreement; (3) cooperate in the valuation of the parties’ respective interests in the joint venture and Acquired Agencies as of the date of termination of the JV Agreement as required by Section 10.01(c)(ii) of the JV Agreement; (4) pay to Plaintiff the value of his share of the joint venture and Acquired Agencies as of the date of termination of the JV Agreement as required by Section 10.01(c)(ii) of the JV Agreement; and (5) do everything that the JV Agreement presupposes that the parties will do to accomplish its purpose and not to prevent or hinder performance by Plaintiff.“[I]f, under the facts and circumstances of a given case, a court finds it appropriate to determine the existence or nonexistence of a duty in the nature of a contractual obligation, it may properly do so by a ruling on that issue presented by a motion for summary adjudication.”  (Linden Partners v. Wilshire Linden Associates (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 508, 519; see Code civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f).)Under Section 11.01 of the JV Agreement, Defendants have a duty to pay Plaintiff his share (70%) of the Net Profits of the Acquired Agencies.  (UMF 83, 85, 91, 95, 96, 142.)Also under Section 11.01, Defendants have a duty to permit an audit of Defendants’ books and records.  (UMF 93.)Under Section 10.01(c)(ii), Defendants have a duty to cooperate in the valuation of the parties’ respective interests in the joint venture and Acquired Agencies as of the date of termination of the JV Agreement.  (UMF 91, 142.)Also under Section 10.01(c)(ii), Defendants have a duty to pay to Plaintiff the value of his share of the joint venture and Acquired Agencies as of the date of termination of the JV Agreement.  (UMF 91, 142.)Defendants also have a duty to do everything that the JV Agreement presupposes that the parties will do to accomplish its purpose and not to prevent or hinder performance by Plaintiff.  “Each party to a contract has a duty to do everything that the contract presupposes that he will do to accomplish its purpose [citations] and a duty not to prevent or hinder performance by the other party.  [Citations.]”  (Bewick v. Mecham (1945) 26 Cal.2d 92, 99.)Accordingly, Plaintiff has met his initial burden of proving the duties owed by Defendants.C.        Defendants Have Not Identified Any Disputed Material Facts.Because Plaintiff has met his initial burden, the burden now shifts to Defendants to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)  Defendants’ opposition contains almost no argument.The Introduction states, “The subject joint venture agreement is rife with contradictions and ambiguities.  The purchases did not occur in a manner to bring them within the joint venture agreement.  Triable issues of material fact abound, precluding summary adjudication.”  (Opposition at p. 2.)  There is no citation to any evidence of contractual contradictions and ambiguities, nor any citation to evidence of the manner of purchases.The Statement of Facts concludes with, “The relevant facts are disputed and must be viewed in context and developed at trial.  They are not susceptible to summary adjudication.”  (Opposition at p. 3 [erroneously numbered as p. 2].)  There is no citation to any evidence or disputed facts.The Argument section is primarily a recitation of legal standards for summary adjudication.  (Opposition at pp. 3-4 [erroneously numbered as p. 2-3].)  After setting forth that legal authority, the Opposition concludes with, “Here, application of these rules, in light of the inherently factual disputes presented, compel denial of Plaintiff’s Motion.”  (Opposition at p. 5 [erroneously numbered as p. 4].)Plaintiff met his burden by relying solely on admittedly undisputed facts.  In response, Defendants have not shown the existence of any triable issue of material fact.Accordingly, summary adjudication is granted.CONCLUSIONThe motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED.Moving party to give notice.Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit.  If all parties in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference) is also on calendar.          Dated this 6th day of May 2024    Hon. Thomas D. LongJudge of the Superior Court  