 Case Number:  21STCV20318    Hearing Date:   May 30, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff Erin Hughes’ Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Complaint is GRANTED in part. Plaintiff may add the proposed amendments regarding the purported cause of the fire being the release of sky lanterns. In all other respects, Plaintiff’s motion is DENIED.Plaintiff Erin Hughes to give notice. REASONINGPlaintiff Erin Hughes (“Plaintiff”) moves the Court for leave to file a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) to add allegations regarding the cause of the fire, allegations supporting the negligence cause of action against TripAdvisor LLC, FlipKey LLC, and Holiday Lettings Limited based on the cause of the fire, to add trespass and conversion causes of action, and to remove Jairo Amaru Rodriques-Quispe as a defendant.The court may grant leave to amend the pleadings at any stage of the action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a).) A party may discover the need to amend after all pleadings are completed (the case is “at issue”) and new information requires a change in the nature of the claims or defenses previously pleaded. (See Dye v. Caterpillar, Inc. (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1380.)“The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified. Leave to amend should be denied only where the facts are not in dispute, and the nature of the plaintiff’s claim is clear, but under substantive law, no liability exists and no amendment would change the result.” (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428, internal quotation marks and citations omitted.) Courts apply a policy of great liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint “at any stage of the proceedings, up to and including trial,” absent prejudice to the adverse party. (Atkinson v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.) Prejudice exists where the amendment would require delaying the trial, resulting in loss of critical evidence, added costs of preparation, or an increased burden of discovery. (See Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 471, 486-488 [trial court’s denial of leave to amend was proper where those factors were present].) If the delay in seeking the amendment has not misled or prejudiced the other side, the liberal policy of allowing amendments prevails. (See Higgins v. Del Faro (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 558, 564-565 [describing same].)A motion for leave to amend must: (1) Include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments;(2) State what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the deleted allegations are located; and(3) State what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional allegations are located.(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).) Further, a separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify the following:(1) The effect of the amendment;(2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper;(3) When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and(4) The reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(b).)This case has been pending for nearly three years, and during this time, the parties have litigated several motions and engaged in discovery. Plaintiff now seeks to add a significant amount of amendments to her pleading. While the standard to allow a party to amend his or her action is liberal, it is axiomatic that the moving party must meet the procedural requirements set forth above. In this motion, Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration supporting the motion falls short of demonstrating that amendment is proper. First, while counsel states that certain facts were learned during depositions which would support Plaintiff’s proposed negligence claims, counsel fails to state when Plaintiff learned of the facts supporting the proposed trespass and conversion claims, and reference to these claims shows that Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration makes no reference to the facts alleged in those claims. It follows that Plaintiff has failed to meet the procedural requirements set forth in rule 3.1324 of the California Rules of Court as to the proposed third and fourth causes of action. Notably, Defendants Holly Seeler and Tess Fisher also provide evidence that Plaintiff reported trespass and vandalism of her property in February 2021 (Seeler and Fisher Opp’n, Dingilian Decl. ¶ 5, Ex. D, Ex. 5), and Plaintiff learned the underlying facts of the trespass claim based on a photograph in August 2022 (Seeler and Fisher Opp’n, Dingilian Decl. ¶ 6, Ex. E). Thus, the Court lacks a basis to conclude that Plaintiff diligently moved to add these claims, and Plaintiff’s delay in bringing this motion prejudices Defendants, who would be required to start litigating two new claims from scratch nearly three years after starting litigation.As to Plaintiff’s proposed claims for negligence, the Court finds Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause to allow the proposed amendments as to the purported cause of the fire. Insofar as any defendant argues they cannot be held responsible based on the evidence to date, this is not a proper basis to deny the amendment, as future evidence may support liability. Second, Plaintiff demonstrates that she learned these facts for the first time in April 2024. (Mot., Gruzman Decl. ¶¶ 8-9.) However, as to the claims for punitive damages, a negligence claim generally will not support a claim for punitive damages, as negligence is an unintentional tort, and a negligent party has no desire to cause the harm that results from its conduct, differing from a party who has engaged in willful misconduct and intended to cause harm. (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166-167.) Allegations of negligence where injuries might occur but are not probable do not support a claim of punitive damages. (McDonell v. American Trust Co. (1955) 130 Cal.App.2d 296, 300; see also Woolstrum v. Mailloux (1983) 141 Cal.App.3d Supp. 1, 12 [evidence of negligence insufficient to show that defendant knew or must have known of the danger].) The allegations here are the Defendants released sky lanterns into the sky from the balcony. This conduct is the sort which may cause injury, but the trier of fact could not conclude that injuries are probable where sky lanterns are released. Mere violation of a statute does not demonstrate that punitive damages are proper, or that injury was likely.Accordingly, Plaintiff Erin Hughes’ Motion for Leave to File a First Amended Complaint is GRANTED in part. Plaintiff may add the proposed amendments regarding the purported cause of the fire being the release of sky lanterns. In all other respects, Plaintiff’s motion is DENIED.