 Case Number:  22STCV37039    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE 
Hearing Date: 11/15/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV37039 MARICELA MUNOZ,
et al. vs RODNEY DEWAYNE MARSHALL
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: GRANTED
 
Legal Standard 
 
California Rules of Court, rule
3.350, subdivision (a) states in relevant part: 
¿¿ 
(1) A notice of motion to consolidate must: 
(A) List all named parties in each case, the names of
those who have appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys of record; 
(B) Contain the captions of all the cases sought to be
consolidated, with the lowest-numbered case shown first; and 
(C) Be filed in each case sought
to be consolidated. 
¿¿ 
(2) The motion to consolidate: 
(A) Is deemed a single motion for the purpose of
determining the appropriate filing fee, but memorandums, declarations, and
other supporting papers must be filed only in the lowest-numbered case;¿¿ 
(B) Must be served on all attorneys of record and all
non-represented parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated; and 
(C) Must have a proof of service filed as part of the
motion.¿ 
¿¿ 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.350,
subd. (a)). Also, the consolidation statute, Code of Civil Procedure section
1048, states in relevant part: 
 
(a)¿ When actions involving a common question of law or
fact are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any
or all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions
consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may
tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay. 
¿¿ 
(b)¿ The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid
prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy,
may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action
asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of
causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by
the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United States. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd.
(a).)¿¿¿ 
 
The granting or denial of the
motion to consolidate rests in the sound discretion of the trial court and will
not be reversed except upon a clear showing of abuse of discretion. (See Fellner
v. Steinbaum (1955) 132 Cal.App.2d 509, 511.) 
 
Los Angeles County Court Rules, Rule 3.3(g) states, “Cases may not
be consolidated unless they are in the same department. A motion to consolidate
two or more cases may be noticed and heard after the cases, initially filed in
different departments, have been related into a single department, or if the
cases were already assigned to that department.”¿ 
 
Discussion
 
The two cases to be consolidated are:
 
·        
Lead Case: Maricela Munoz, et al. v. Rodney
Dewayne Marshall, et al., Case No. 22STCV37039
·        
Secondary Case: Roslyn Anderson, et al. v.
Alejandro Chavez, et al., Case No. 23STCV08476
 
Both cases are in Department 27 and were ordered to be related on June
11, 2024.
 
The moving party has complied with California Rules of Court, Rule
3.350 by:
 
·        
Listing all named parties in each case, the names
of those who have appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys of
record;
·        
Including the captions of all cases to be
consolidated, with the lowest-numbered case shown first;
·        
Filing the motion in each case sought to be
consolidated;
·        
Serving the motion on all attorneys of record and
all self-represented parties in each case to be consolidated.
 
The Court finds that the actions involve common questions of law or
fact pending before the Court. Both cases arise from the same two-vehicle
collision, with parties in both cases being drivers or passengers of the
involved vehicles. Both cases require identical factual and legal inquiries,
particularly regarding liability and comparative negligence. There is shared
admissible evidence, including witness testimony, and similar jury instructions
applicable to both cases. Consolidation would therefore conserve court
resources, prevent duplicate depositions, and avoid the risk of inconsistent
verdicts. Furthermore, no opposition was filed. Thus, the motion is granted.
 