  Case Number:  20STCV37782    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 

MOTIONS TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES AND REQUESTS FOR SANCTIONS
Hearing Date: 11/14/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 20STCV37782 BUIL SAMGYE
TANG, INC. vs IN AE PARK
Moving Party: Defendant In Ae Park
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: GRANTED
 
On October 1, 2020,
Plaintiff filed the present case. On November 14, 2023, Defendant In Ae Park
propounded Form Interrogatories, Set No. One, and Requests for Production of
Documents, Set No. One, on Plaintiff Buil Samgye Tang, Inc. Responses to these
discovery requests were due on December 19, 2023. However, responses have yet
to be produced.
Plaintiff did not file
an opposition or any document indicating that responses were provided prior to
the hearing. Consequently, the motion is granted, and Plaintiff is ordered to
provide complete and verified responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories,
Set One, and Requests for Production of Documents, Set One, without objections,
within 20 days of today.
Defendant requests
$1,540 in sanctions for each motion. Sanctions are mandatory as the Court did
not find Plaintiff to have acted with substantial justification. However, due
to the straightforwardness of the issue and the lack of opposition, the Court reduces
the sanctions to $1,500 for both motions. Plaintiff and its attorney are
jointly and severally liable for sanctions in the amount of $1,500, payable to
Defendant within 20 days of today.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 