 Case Number:  23STCV15401    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27¿ 
¿ 
MOTION TO CONSOLIDATE¿ 
Hearing Date: 11/15/24¿¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV15401 YAFA HAKIM, AN
INDIVIDUAL vs BEVERLY HILLS REHABILITATION CENTRE et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff Yafa Hakim
Responding Party: Unopposed 
Notice: Sufficient
 
Ruling: GRANTED 
 
Legal Standard¿ 
¿ 
California Rules of Court, rule
3.350, subdivision (a) states in relevant part:¿ 
¿¿¿ 
(1) A notice of motion to consolidate must:¿ 
(A) List all named parties in each case, the names of
those who have appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys of record;¿ 
(B) Contain the captions of all the cases sought to be
consolidated, with the lowest-numbered case shown first; and¿ 
(C) Be filed in each case sought
to be consolidated.¿ 
¿¿¿ 
(2) The motion to consolidate:¿ 
(A) Is deemed a single motion for the purpose of
determining the appropriate filing fee, but memorandums, declarations, and
other supporting papers must be filed only in the lowest-numbered case;¿¿¿ 
(B) Must be served on all attorneys of record and all
non-represented parties in all of the cases sought to be consolidated; and¿ 
(C) Must have a proof of service filed as part of the
motion.¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.350,
subd. (a)). Also, the consolidation statute, Code of Civil Procedure section
1048, states in relevant part:¿ 
¿ 
(a)¿ When actions involving a common question of law or
fact are pending before the court, it may order a joint hearing or trial of any
or all the matters in issue in the actions; it may order all the actions
consolidated and it may make such orders concerning proceedings therein as may
tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.¿ 
¿¿¿ 
(b)¿ The court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid
prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy,
may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action
asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of
causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by
the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United States.¿ 
¿ 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1048, subd.
(a).)¿¿¿¿ 
¿ 
The granting or denial of the
motion to consolidate rests in the sound discretion of the trial court and will
not be reversed except upon a clear showing of abuse of discretion. (See Fellner
v. Steinbaum (1955) 132 Cal.App.2d 509, 511.)¿ 
¿ 
Los Angeles County Court Rules,
Rule 3.3(g) states, “Cases may not be consolidated unless they are in the same
department. A motion to consolidate two or more cases may be noticed and heard
after the cases, initially filed in different departments, have been related
into a single department, or if the cases were already assigned to that
department.”¿¿ 
 
Discussion 
 
The two cases to
be consolidated are:

Lead Case: Yafa Hakim v. Beverly Hills
     Rehabilitation Center, LLC, et al., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 23STCV15401
Secondary Case: Said Hakim v. Beverly Hills
     Rehabilitation Center, LLC, et al., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No.
     24STCV04025

Both cases are
assigned to Department 27 and were deemed related on February 22, 2024.
The moving party has
complied with California Rules of Court, Rule 3.350, by:

Listing all named parties in each case, the names
     of those who have appeared, and the names of their respective attorneys of
     record;
Including the captions of all cases to be
     consolidated, with the lowest-numbered case shown first;
Filing the motion in each case sought to be
     consolidated;
Serving the motion on all attorneys of record and
     all self-represented parties in each case to be consolidated.

The Court finds that the actions involve common
questions of law and fact pending before the Court. Both cases arise from the
same trip-and-fall incident. Plaintiff Yafa Hakim sustained personal injuries
from the incident and filed Yafa Hakim v. Beverly Hills Rehabilitation
Center, LLC, et al., Case No. 23STCV15401. Plaintiff Said Hakim, Yafa
Hakim’s husband, is making a claim for loss of consortium due to Yafa’s
injuries from the same incident, filed as Said Hakim v. Beverly Hills
Rehabilitation Center, LLC, et al., Case No. 24STCV04025. 
Both actions involve the same defendant, Beverly Hills
Rehabilitation Center, LLC, and other associated parties. Both cases involve overlapping factual and legal issues, including premises
liability and the injuries and damages resulting from the incident. The claims
share common witnesses, evidence, and questions of liability, and both cases
will likely require similar or identical expert testimony, such as medical
experts addressing Plaintiff Yafa Hakim’s injuries and their impact on
Plaintiff Said Hakim’s loss of consortium claim.
Consolidation would
promote judicial economy by avoiding duplicative discovery, trials, and
inconsistent rulings. No opposition is filed. Accordingly, the motion is
granted.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to
the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT”
followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties submit by email to this
tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or
in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the Court has issued a
tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion
without leave.
 