 Case Number:  23STCV03080    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO DEEM RFA ADMITTED
Hearing Date: 11/15/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV03080 ROBERTO MENDOZA
vs JOHN DOE, et al.
Moving Party: Defendant Kalifornia
Transport, Inc.
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: GRANTED 
 
Background
On
February 10, 2023, Plaintiff Roberto Mendoza initiated this case alleging
personal injury from an incident involving a tractor-trailer. On August 8,
2024, Defendant Kalifornia Transport, Inc. served its first set of Requests for
Admission (RFAs) on Plaintiff. Plaintiff failed to respond to these requests by
the statutory due date of September 12, 2024. On September 16, 2024,
Defendant’s counsel sent a letter inquiring about the status of Plaintiff’s
discovery responses but received no reply. Defendant now moves the court to
deem the contents of its RFA, Set One, admitted.
 
Legal
Standard
“Any
party may obtain discovery . . . by a written request that any other party to
the action admit the genuineness of specified documents, or the truth of
specified matters of fact, opinion relating to fact, or application of law to
fact. A request for admission may relate to a matter that is in controversy
between the parties.”  CCP § 2033.010.  “Within 30 days after service of requests for
admission, the party to whom the requests are directed shall serve the original
of the response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the response on
all other parties who have appeared ....”  CCP §
2033.250(a).   
 
If
a party to whom request for admissions are served fails to provide a timely
response, the party to whom the request was directed waives any objections,
including based on privilege or the work product doctrine. CCP § 2033.280(a).
The requesting party can move for an order that the genuineness of any
documents and the truth of any matters specified in the request be deemed
admitted, as well as for monetary sanctions. CCP § 2033.280(b). The court shall
issue this order unless the party to whom the request was made serves a
response in substantial compliance prior to the hearing on the motion. CCP §
2033.280(c). Unlike a motion to compel further discovery responses, a motion to
deem RFA admitted does not have any meet and confer requirements.   
 
Analysis
It
is undisputed that Plaintiff failed to serve any response, including
objections, within the statutory deadline of CCP § 2033.250(a). Plaintiff did
not file an opposition nor did Plaintiff serve any responses prior to the
hearing indicating to the court that responses were served. Consequently, the
contents of Defendant’s RFA, Set One, are deemed admitted.
 
Sanctions
are mandatory against the party, the attorney, or both whose failure to serve a
timely discovery response forced Defendant to file the present motion. CCP §
2033.280(c). Defendant seeks sanctions in the amount of $1,268.91, which the
Court finds reasonable. Plaintiff and his attorney of record are jointly and
severally liable for sanctions in the amount of $1,268.91 payable to Defendant
within 20 days of this order.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 