 Case Number:  22STCV25665    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
Hearing Date: 11/15/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV25665 ROBERTO LOMELI,
et al. vs HARBOR INDUSTRIAL SERVICES et al.
Moving Party: Plaintiff
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
 
Ruling: DENIED 
 
On August 9, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the present case, with trial currently set for February 19,
2025. The parties now jointly move to continue the trial to October 2025,
citing Plaintiff’s recent surgeries and pending authorization for additional
lumbar surgery. The motion argues that Plaintiff’s recovery timeline delays
necessary expert analysis related to prognosis, loss of earning capacity, and
future treatment. However, ongoing injuries and surgeries are typical in
personal injury cases and do not independently justify a continuance. A prior
continuance was granted on December 27, 2023, to allow Plaintiff additional
time for medical treatment; Plaintiff again requests a continuance on the same
basis. The current request only highlights the continuing nature of personal
injury claims, which alone is insufficient grounds for further delay.
Plaintiff also argues
that current counsel, who substituted into the case on November 7, 2023,
requires more time to prepare. However, substitution of counsel does not
relieve new counsel of the obligation to adhere to dates set by prior counsel,
and, in any event, nearly a year has been provided for counsel to familiarize
themselves with the case. The Court is not persuaded to continue the trial on
this basis.
Plaintiff also allege a
conflict of interest between Defendant City of Long Beach and Defendant
Laranjo, necessitating separate counsel for Long Beach. The Court finds there
is ample time for Defendants to resolve this issue before the February 19,
2025, trial date.
Given that the case was
filed on August 9, 2022, and trial is set for February 19, 2025, the parties
have had ample pre-trial time to complete all necessary discovery and
preparations. Under California Rules of Court, Rule 3.714, civil cases should
conclude within two years; the current trial date already extends beyond this
guideline. Accordingly, the Court finds no reason to continue the trial date
further. Thus, the motion is DENIED.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 
 