 Case Number:  23STCV02641    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO VACATE
Hearing Date: 11/15/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV02641 STATE FARM
MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE COMPANY vs JACK VISTA
Moving Party: Defendant Jack Vista 
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient
 
Ruling: DENIED
 
Legal Standard
California Code of
Civil Procedure Section 473.5 provides for setting aside a default "when
service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to
defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered against
him or her in the action." (Section 473.5, subd. (a).) 
A party who has not
received such notice "may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside
the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action." (Ibid.) 
The notice of motion
shall be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no event exceeding
the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment against him or
her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written notice that the
default or default judgment has been entered. (Ibid.) 
(b) A notice of motion
to set aside a default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action
shall designate as the time for making the motion a date prescribed by
subdivision (b) of Section 1005, and it shall be accompanied by an affidavit
showing under oath that the party's lack of actual notice in time to defend the
action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable
neglect. The party shall serve and file with the notice a copy of the answer,
motion, or other pleading proposed to be filed in the action. 
(c) Upon a finding by
the court that the motion was made within the period permitted by subdivision
(a) and that his or her lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was
not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect, it may
set aside the default or default judgment on whatever terms as may be just and
allow the party to defend the action. 
Discussion
On February 7, 2023,
Plaintiff filed this action against Defendant Jack Vista. On March 3, 2024,
this Court entered a default judgment against Defendant. Defendant now moves to
set aside the default judgment on the basis that Defendant had no actual notice
of the action.
This motion is
defective on several grounds. First, the motion lacks an affidavit or
declaration from Defendant Jack Vista demonstrating his “lack of actual notice
in time to defend the action was not due to avoidance of service or inexcusable
neglect,” as required by Section 473.5, subd. (b). The only declaration
submitted is from Defendant’s attorney.
Furthermore, Defendant
has not attached a copy of his answer as required by Section 473.5, subd. (b). 
Moreover, and likely
most significantly, notice of entry of judgment was served on March 7, 2024,
but the motion to set aside the judgment was not filed until September 19,
2024—more than six months after service of the entry of judgment. This motion
is thus untimely.
For these reasons, the
motion to set aside the default judgment is Denied.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 