 Case Number:  23STCV13167    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTIONS TO COMPEL INITIAL RESPONSES
Hearing Date: 11/15/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 23STCV13167 EDWIN ZEPEDA vs
CITY OF LOS ANGELES, et al. 
Moving Party: Defendant City of Los Angeles 
Responding Party: Unopposed
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: GRANTED. 
 
On March 27, 2024,
Defendant City of Los Angeles propounded Form Interrogatories, Set One,
Requests for Production, Set One, and Special Interrogatories, Set One, on
Plaintiff. After not receiving discovery responses, Defendant reached out to
Plaintiff numerous times to meet and confer, but received no replies. To date,
no responses to the meet-and-confer efforts or the discovery requests have been
provided. Defendant now moves the Court to compel discovery responses.
It is undisputed that
Plaintiff did not serve the discovery responses by the statutory deadline.
Plaintiff also did not file an opposition or any other document indicating to
the Court that responses were served prior to the hearing. Accordingly, the Court
grants the present motions. Plaintiff is ordered to serve complete and verified
responses to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and Requests for Production, Set One, without
objections, within 20 days of today.
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 