 Case Number:  23TRCV01935    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 August 6, 2024¿¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV01935
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Richard
Colburn v. BMX Racing Group Inc.   
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Respondent, BMX Racing Group, Inc.  
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Richard Colburn 
¿¿¿ 
DISPOSED OF DATE:          December
15, 2023
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion to Set Aside
Default
 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) CONTINUED to allow
Plaintiff a sur-reply to address the new matters first raised in the moving
party’s reply brief.  Parties should be
prepared to discuss timing for the sur-reply to be filed and for a continued
hearing
 
¿¿ 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A.    Factual¿¿ 
 
On
June 15, 2023, Plaintiff, Richard Colburn (“Plaintiff”) filed a product
liability complaint against Defendant, BMX Racing Group, Inc., a California
corporation, dba BRG, and DOES 1 through 100. The complaint alleges causes of
action for: (1) Design Defect; (2)Manufacturing Defect; (3) Failure to Warn –
Inadequate Warning – Inadequate Instruction; (4) Negligent Design; (5)
Negligent Manufacture; (6) Failure to Warn – Inadequate Warning – Inadequate
Instruction; (7) Breach of Warranty; and (8) Malfunction Theory – Res Ipsa
Loquitur. The complaint is based on the allegations that Defendants designed,
engineered, manufactured, sold, distributed, marketed, packaged, labeled,
constructed, tested, inspected, warrantied, and/or performed other work in
connection with defective Crank Arms with the specific purpose that they be
used by riders on their bicycles. (Complaint, ¶ 14.) Specifically, the
plaintiff alleges that the crank arm was lauded as a safe product, of
merchantable quality, and fit for its intended and reasonably foreseeable uses,
but that Defendants failed to disclose that their crank arms were unsafe, and
posed a substantial risk that they would break, resulting in injury to the
rider of the bicycle. (Complaint, ¶¶ 14, 16.) 
 
On
September 1, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Request for Default on Defendant, BMX
Racing Group, Inc. (“BMX”). On December 15, 2023, this request was granted and
Default Judgment was entered.   Now, BMX
has filed a motion to set aside the default judgment. 
 
B.    
Procedural 
 
On June 17, 2024, Defendant
BMX filed this Motion to Set Aside Default and Default Judgment.
On July 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. On July 30, 2024,
Defendant BMX filed a reply brief.  
 
II. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A.   
 Legal Standard
¿ 
The Motion is brought under Code of Civil
Procedure section 473.5.
 
Courts may set aside a
default or default judgment due to lack of actual notice. Code of Civil
Procedure section 473.5 states: 
“(a) When service of a
summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to defend
the action and a default or default judgment has been entered against him or
her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to set aside
the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action. The notice
of motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in no event
exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment
against him or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written
notice that the default or default judgment has been entered. 
(b) A notice of motion to set
aside a default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action shall designate
as the time for making the motion a date prescribed by subdivision (b) of
Section 1005, and it shall be accompanied by an affidavit showing under oath
that the party’s lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was not
caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect. The party
shall serve and file with the notice a copy of the answer, motion, or other
pleading proposed to be filed in the action. 
(c) Upon a finding by the
court that the motion was made within the period permitted by subdivision (a)
and that his or her lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was not
caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect, it may set
aside the default or default judgment on whatever terms as may be just and
allow the party to defend the action.” 
Further, pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure §473(b), both discretionary and mandatory relief is available
to parties from a judgment, dismissal, or other proceeding.  Discretionary
relief is available under the statute as “the court may, upon any terms as may
be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from judgment,
dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or
her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.  (Code of Civ.
Proc. §¿473(b).)  Alternatively, mandatory relief is available when
“accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.”  (Ibid.)  Under this statute, an application for
discretionary or mandatory relief must be made no more than six months after
entry of the judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding from which relief
is sought.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473(b); English v. IKON Business
Solutions (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.) 
 
“‘[W]hen relief under section
473¿is¿available, there is a strong¿public¿policy¿in¿favor¿of granting relief
and allowing the requesting party his or her day in court…[Citation.]” (Rappleyea
v. Campbell¿(1994) 8 Cal. 4th 975, 981-82.) 
 
B.    
Discussion 
 
Here,
Defendant BMX is moving to set aside the default judgment on the grounds that it
argues it was not given personal notice through its agent of service for
process, but that instead, Plaintiff insufficiently attempted substituted
service. 
 
As
noted by Plaintiff in his opposition, Defendant BMX does not state which
portion of the statute it is relying on in bringing this motion. Although this could
be grounds to deny the motion, as noted by Plaintiff, in the interest of
judicial efficiency, this Court nonetheless rules on this matter. Defendant BMX
clarifies in its reply brief that it is moving for relief under Code of Civil
Procedure section 473 subdivision (b). If this is true, however, this raises an
issue as to whether this motion is timely.  While a Section 473.5 motion may be brought
within two years, an application for
discretionary or mandatory relief must be made no more than six months after
entry of the judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding from which relief
is sought.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473(b); English v. IKON Business
Solutions (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 130, 143.) Here,
the clerk’s default was entered on September 1, 2023. If Defendant BMX sought
relief from that entry, it would have had to bring this motion by March 1,
2024. Further, Default Judgment was entered in this case on December 15, 2023.
Thus, this motion would have been required to be brough on or before June 15,
2024. Nonetheless, the motion was not brought until June 17, 2024, and is thus,
untimely. However, as noted by BMX, June 15, 2024 was a Saturday, and
therefore, a filing on the next Court date, June 17, 2024, would render the
motion timely. (See California Rules of Court, Rule 1.10(a).) 
 
Because
this motion is timely, this Court must now analyze whether Defendant BMX’s
failure to respond was truly due to mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b). But the arguments
made as to 473(b) relief are not made until the reply papers, not the moving
papers.  Because new arguments are not to
be made on reply, as the opposing party would not be able to respond, this
Court will allow a brief continuance to allow Plaintiff to respond to the arguments
made in the reply papers. 
 
             The parties should be prepared to discuss the timing
for Plaintiff to file its sur-reply and for a continued hearing date.
 