  Case Number:  21STCV18145    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 August 6, 2023
¿¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                   21STCV18145
¿¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        David Zeil v. DOES 1-100
¿¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff, David Zeil 
¿¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Defendant,
Southwest Airlines Co. 
 
TRIAL DATE:                        September 22, 2025 
¿¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Motion for Order
Compelling Defendant to Serve Further Responses to Form Interrogatory No. 15.1
                                                (2) Request for
Monetary Sanctions  
                                                (3) Motion for
Summary Judgment 
                                                
Tentative Rulings:                  (1) As to Responses to FROG
No. 15.1, MOOTED by recent 4th supplemental responses served while this
motion was pending
                                                (2) Request for
Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED in the lowered amount of $2,068. 
                                                (3) DISCUSS.  The Hearing on MSJ will be CONTINUED, unless
Southwest can convince the Court that there is no set of facts covered by pending
responses to Plaintiff’s discovery that would require a trial as to the negligence
cause of action, or unless Plaintiff can convince the Court that Southwest has
failed to carry its initial burden on summary judgment because the witness statements
supplied as the moving party’s evidence is hearsay not within any exception.  The Court GRANTS summary adjudication on the
product liability cause of action as against Southwest
 
 
 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
On May 14, 2021, Plaintiff,
David Zeil (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants DOES 1 through
100. Plaintiff eventually learned of the identity of more Defendants including
Southwest Airlines Co, and Ms. Manu. The Complaint alleges causes of action
for: (1) Products Liability; and (2) General Negligence. 
 
i.                
Facts relating to the Motion to Compel Further Responses 
 
On August 1, 2022, Plaintiff
notes that it served Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, Admission
Requests and Inspection Demands on Defendant. On August 31, 2022, Plaintiff
notes that Defendant served responses to the discovery, but that they contained
multiple improper objections, failed to provide substantive responses to most
of the discovery and in general were not good faith responses. 
 
On September 14, 2022,
Plaintiff notes it sent a detailed meet and confer letter to defense counsel
regarding the discovery responses, setting forth why further responses were
required including Form Interrogatory No. 15.1. On September 21, 2022,
Plaintiff notes defense counsel wrote back stating Defendant would not provide
further responses. 
 
On April 14, 2023, Plaintiff notes
that he and Defendant attended a hearing of Plaintiff’s motion to compel. The
Plaintiff contends that this Court granted Plaintiff’s motion, compelling
further responses to Form Interrogatory No. 15.1. A status conference was
subsequently set for June 6, 2023. 
 
On May 10, 2023, Plaintiff
notes that Defendant Southwest produced further responses to Plaintiff under
the court order. On May 25, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel again sent Defendant a
meet and confer letter. On June 15, 2023, Plaintiff notes that Defense counsel
responded stating Defendant intended to stand on its response and would not
provide further responses to Form Interrogatory No. 15.1 or the other
discovery. After a phone call on June 26, 2023, Plaintiff contends that on June
27, 2023, Defendant provided further responses to Form Interrogatory No. 15.1.
However, Plaintiff contends that these Reponses provided no new information and
on June 30, 2023, his counsel wrote another detailed meet and confer letter. On
July 6, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel notes that he spoke with Mr. Kaskiw about
Form Interrogatory No. 15.1. Plaintiff suggests that Defense counsel suggested
that Plaintiff take depositions, and subsequently agreed to provide follow-up
responses that complied with the requirements of the interrogatory as to each
of Defendant’s defenses and affirmative defenses. 
 
When no progress was made,
Plaintiff contends that he filed a motion for terminating sanctions which was
heard on December 12, 2023. However, on December 11, 2023, one day prior to
that hearing, Plaintiff notes that Southwest provided supplemental responses to
Form Interrogatory No. 15.1, as well as other discovery. Thus, this Court mooted
the then-pending motion as further responses were submitted. 
 
On January 3, 2024, Plaintiff
notes that Defendant wrote a meet and confer letter, which Plaintiff responded
to on January 11, 2024. Subsequently, on April 26, 2024, Defendant provided
further responses to Form Interrogatory No. 15.1. On April 20, 2024, Plaintiff
notes its counsel wrote another meet and confer letter concerning those
responses. Since then, Plaintiff notes that he has not received any further
responses and Defendant has maintained its responses to Form Interrogatory No.
15.1 are sufficient. But then Southwest served fourth supplemental responses on  July 3, 2024. 
 
 
As such, the discovery motion
as to Form Interrogatory 15.1 is mooted, but the sanctions issue is not. 
 
ii.              
Facts relation to the Motion for Summary Judgment 
 
Defendant Southwest moves for
summary judgment on the grounds it argues: (1) there is no triable issue of
facts as to Plaintiff’s claims because the Federal Aviation Act of 1958
preempts state standards of care regarding aviation safety, and thus Plaintiff
cannot show Southwest violated a Federal Aviation Regulation; (2) There is no
triable issue of fact as to Plaintiff’s first cause of action for products
liability because Southwest did not manufacture, assemble, design, or sell the
subject product; and (3) There is no triable issue of material fact as to
Plaintiff’s second cause of action for general negligence asserted against
Southwest as Southwest did not have actual or constructive notice of the
alleged dangerous condition. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
On May 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed its
Motions to Compel Further Responses to Form Interrogatory No. 15.1. On July 3,
2024, Southwest filed an opposition brief. On July 15, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
reply brief. 
 
On May 8, 2024, Southwest filed a Motion
for Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication. On July 24, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an opposition brief. On July 24, 2024, Southwest filed a reply brief. 
 
II. ANALYSIS¿¿ 
 
A.    Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Form Interrogatory No. 15.1
 
 
The motion is MOOTED by the service of fourth
supplemental responses on  July 3, 2024,
while this motion to compel was pending.

 
                                     
i.         
Sanctions 
 
Although the substantive motion was MOOTED by the filing of
Southwest’s fourth supplemental responses, this does not per se moot the
request for monetary sanctions. Plaintiff is requesting monetary sanctions be
imposed against Defendants and/or their counsel in the amount of $4,468.40.
This total amount is based on Plaintiff’s counsel’s indication that he spent
two (2) hours on meet and confer efforts; two (2) hours preparing the separate
statement; two (2) hours drafting the motion, and will spend at least two (2)
hours reviewing any oppositions, preparing a reply brief, and participating in
the hearing. Additionally, counsel notes his hourly rate is $550 and that he
spent $68.40 in filing fees. The Court finds this total amount to be excessive,
especially because this is not the first time this interrogatory has been at
issue in this case and much of the background and history that Plaintiff has presented
both on the discovery motion and in the MSJ’s separate statement is duplicative.
As such, this Court awards monetary sanctions in the lowered amount of $2,068
to be paid by Defendant Southwest and/or its counsel on or before August 20,
2024.  
 
B.   
Southwest’s Motion for Summary Judgment or Summary Adjudication 
 
                                     
i.         
Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h)
 
Prior to ruling on the merits of the motion,
the Court is inclined to CONTINUE the motion for numerous reasons. 
 
The Court first addresses Plaintiff’s
opposition argument that this motion should be continued pursuant to Code of
Civil procedure section 437c, subdivision (h), which states: “[i]f it
appears from the affidavits submitted in opposition to a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, or
both, that facts essential to justify
opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the
court shall deny the motion, order a continuance to permit affidavits to be
obtained or discovery to be had, or make any other order as may be just. The
application to continue the motion to obtain necessary discovery may also be
made by ex parte motion at any time on or before the date the opposition
response to the motion is due.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (h).) “Generally, power to determine when a continuance should be
granted is within the discretion of the court, and there is no right to a
continuance as a matter of law.” (American Continental Ins. Co. v. C & Z
Timber Co. (1987) 195 Cal.App.3d 1271, 1280) 
 
Specifically, Plaintiff’s opposition
asserts that it believes facts essential to justify his opposition to the
motion exist, but cannot be presented at this time. Plaintiff’s counsel, Neil
S. Steiner, prepared a declaration (“Steiner Decl.”), indicating that Plaintiff
has been unable to obtain evidence essential to opposing Defendant’s Motion for
Summary Judgment and thus, asks this Court to deny or continue this motion.
(Steiner Decl., ¶ 88.) Plaintiff notes that it as been unable to obtain
information on Defendant’s defenses and affirmative defenses, including its
defense of preemption. (Steiner Decl., ¶ 85.) Plaintiff contends that since
October 3, 2022, he has filed no less than twelve (12) discovery motions
against Defendant, including two terminating sanctions motions, to attempt to
obtain this necessary information. (Steiner Decl., ¶ 85.) 
 
Plaintiff’s counsel beleives that
relevant information exists, but cannot yet be presented to this Court is
demonstrated by the reports of the flight crew as attached to the Steiner
Declaration as Exhibits “G” and “H”. (Steiner Decl., ¶ 86.) However, Plaintiff argues
that these statements are hearsay and not falling within any recognized
exception including the exception for business records.   (Steiner Decl., ¶ 86.) Moreover, Plaintiff
further notes that Defendant refuses to agree to dates for their depositions or
for the PMQ, and will not produce the statements of Ms. Bird. (Steiner Decl., ¶
86.) Plaintiff indicates that he currently has four additional discovery
motions pending. (Steiner Decl., ¶ 73.) Further, this Court notes that after
the filing of this motion, Defendant Southwest produced further responses to
Form Interrogatory No. 15.1, another subject of today’s hearing. Based on these
combined issues, the Court finds good cause to continue the motion. 
 
As frustrated as Plaintiff’s counsel may
be with the claimed stonewalling and continual delays in providing discovery by
Southwest, the Court will be patient to hear both sides’ assertions.  Many a defendant has sought to delay
responding to discovery because of a righteous belief that it has an insuperable
legal defense to the lawsuit.  But California
law allows a plaintiff a right to discovery and to delay the hearing of a
dispositive motion upon a representation of counsel that facts exist that might
show a triable issue of fact sufficient to require a trial.  The Court is not inclined to schedule a continued
hearing on Southwest’s MSJ until the previously-sought depositions of key flight
crew members and PMK have been taken.  It
is not unique to cases subject to federal regulations that the defendant honestly
and reasonably believes the case is subject to a complete defense under those regulations.  But where the evidence submitted to prove that
complete defense consists of witness statements or declarations from the defendant’s
employees, trial judges usually delay the hearing under Section 437c(h) where the
party opposing the MSJ has made timely efforts to seek to depose those witnesses
but has been spurned by the defense.  It
is also not unique to pre-emption defenses that an MSJ hearing must be
continued multiple times to enable the opposing party to overcome claimed stonewalling
of discovery.  The Court recently granted
a Privette Doctrine MSJ, after the hearing was continued multiple times
to enable completion of reasonably requested discovery propounded before the
motion was filed.  
 
This Court further notes that further
evidence was submitted on reply with defense counsel’s reply declaration. Moreover,
the parties each take issue with the declarations and/or requests for judicial
notice of one another for various reasons. Even where the Court can take judicial
notice of various items presented, taking judicial notice does not require the Court
to accept the truth of matters asserted in witness statements that were not
subject to cross-examination.  
 
The Court believes that as to the product
liability cause of action, there is no triable issue of material fact that would
require a trial against Southwest, as distinct from the vape pen manufacturer
or battery supplier for the vape pen.  Thus,
the Court’s tentative would grant MSA on the product liability cause of action
against Southwest.  But as to the
negligence cause of action, Plaintiff asserts that Southwest has restricted discovery
bearing on the existence of a complete federal preemption defense here, and
that Southwest refuses to make available for deposition the very witnesses on
whose witness statements Southwest seeks to predicate its prima facie showing
on summary judgment.  That is problematic
to the Court.  Plaintiff asserts that
triable issues of fact bear on whether Southwest complied with its federally regulated
duty of care.  Much of Plaintiff’s argument
appears to be more directed against TSA for its screening of passengers,
whether they are non-revenue passengers or others, for the presence of lithium
or lithium-ion batteries in carry-on baggage. 
The standard of care may have changed since the flight in question in
May of 2019, over five years ago.  Further,
Plaintiff cannot create a triable issue of fact by asserting different facts in
his deposition versus in his declaration opposing summary judgment.  These are things the Court is outlining in
advance of oral argument to be discussed at the hearing.
 
The
Court will entertain argument from Southwest that there is no set of facts
covered by still-pending responses to Plaintiff’s discovery that would require
a trial as to the negligence cause of action. 
The Court will also entertain oral argument from Plaintiff that
Southwest has failed to carry its initial burden on summary judgment because the
witness statements supplied as the moving party’s evidence is hearsay not
within any exception.  If neither of those
arguments is convincing to the Court, Plaintiff should be prepared with a short
list of depositions by deponent name and/or request for production by RFP
number, and/or interrogatories by set and rog number, that Plaintiff still
requires a better or further or amended verified response in order to oppose this
motion further.  If there already is a
pending discovery motion on calendar for that information, Plaintiff should be prepared
to advise the Court the date of the hearing of those motions.  If Southwest intends never to offer the flight
captain or flight attendants for deposition, counsel should be prepared to articulate
why not.  Then the Court will have sufficient
information to decide how far out to re-schedule the hearing on this dispositive
motion.  
 
 
 
 
 
 