 Case Number:  22STCV32700    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling¿ 
¿¿ 
HEARING DATE:                 August 6, 2024¿ 
¿¿ 
CASE NUMBER:                  22STCV32700
¿¿ 
CASE NAME:                        Kenneth
Alexander v. Slater Waterproofing, Inc., et al. 
¿¿ 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, Walker Consultants, Inc. dba
Walker Restoration Consultants (DOE 1)  
¿¿ 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Kenneth Alexander
¿¿ 
TRIAL DATE:                        None
set.  
¿¿ 
MOTION:¿                              (1) Defendant Walker’s Demurrer 
¿ 
Tentative Rulings:                  (1)  SUSTAINED WITHOUT leave to amend as to the first cause of
action, and WITH leave to amend as to the premise liability claim
 
 
 
 
¿¿ 
I. BACKGROUND¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A. Factual¿¿ 
¿ 
On
October 5, 2022, Plaintiff, Kenneth Alexander (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Defendants, Slater Waterproofing, Inc., City of Redondo Beach, County
of Los Angeles, Sika Corporation, and DOES 1 through 50. The complaint alleges
causes of action for: (1) General Negligence; (2) Premises Liability; and (3)
Products Liability.
 
Defendant,
Walker Consultants, Inc. dba Walker Restoration Consultants (DOE 1) (“Walker”) now
files a demurrer to Plaintiff’s original complaint. 
 
B. Procedural¿¿ 
¿ 
On July 2, 2024, Walker filed
its demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint. On July 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
opposition brief. On July 5, 2024, Walker filed a reply brief.  
 
II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
            Along with their moving papers, Walker has filed a
Request for Judicial Notice seeking this Court judicially notice the following:

 
1.      The
Organization of Record Form pertaining to Walker on file with the Board for
Professional Engineers, Land Surveyors, and Geologists, California Department
of Consumer Affairs, attached as “Exhibit A” to the Declaration of Sultan R.
Alshawa, Esq. 
 
The Court GRANTS this request and
takes judicial notice of the above documents. 
 
Further,
along with Plaintiff’s opposition brief, Plaintiff requested this Court take
judicial notice of the following: 
 
1.      Exhibit
1—pertinent portions of the Deposition Transcript of PMQ Lauren Sablan taken on
January 24, 2024. 
2.      Exhibit
2— conformed copy of the Declaration and Certificate of Plaintiff’s Attorney Of
Record, Kevin S. Conlogue, Esq., Pursuant To Code Of Civil Procedure Section
411.35(d) filed and served on April 3, 2024.
 
The Court also GRANTs Plaintiff’s
request and takes judicial notice of the above. 
 
III. ANALYSIS¿ 
¿ 
A. Legal Standard 
¿ 
A demurrer can be used only to challenge
defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters
outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan
(1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that
might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A.
v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City
Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab
Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A pleading is uncertain if it is
ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer
for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders
the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,
even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can
be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of
California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿ 
 
B. Discussion 
 
             Walker demurs to Plaintiff’s complaint on the
grounds that: (1) Plaintiff’s first cause of action for professional negligence
is barred by Code of Civil Procedure sections 335.1 and 411.35 because
Plaintiff failed to file a certificate of merit within two (2) years and sixty
(60) days of the incident that forms the basis of this suit; (2) Plaintiff’s
second cause of action fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of
action and is uncertain, ambiguous, and unintelligible; and (3) Plaintiff’s
third cause of action fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action and is uncertain, ambiguous, and unintelligible. 
 
General
Negligence - Code of Civil Procedure section 411.35
 
            Here, Plaintiff first argues that
Plaintiff’s first cause of action for professional negligence fails and cannot
be cured based on Plaintiff’s failure to comply with Code of Civil Procedure
section 411.35. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 411.35(a), “[i]n
every action…arising out of the professional negligence of a person holding a
valid architect’s certificate…or of a person holding a valid registration as a
professional engineer…or of a person holding a valid land surveyor’s license on
or before the date of service of the complaint or cross-complaint on any
defense or cross-defendant, the attorney for the plaintiff or cross-complainant
shall file and serve the certificate specified by subdivision (b).” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 411.35, subd. (a).) 
 
            Defendant Walker asserts that
Plaintiff did not file a certificate of merit in conformance with Code of Civil
Procedure section 411.35 (b)(1), 411.35(d) or the excuse certificate by
Plaintiff’s counsel in conformance with section 411.35(b)(2), with Plaintiff’s
original pleadings on October 5, 2022. Defendant Walker further asserts that
Plaintiff failed to file the required certificate of merit within 60 days after
the filing of the original complaint. 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff argues that
section 411.35 is inapplicable because pursuant to subdivision (d), “[w]here
the attorney intends to rely solely on the doctrine of ‘res ipsa loquitur,’ as
defined in section 646 of the Evidence Code, or exclusively on a failure to
inform of the consequences of a procedure, or both, [Section 411.35] is
inapplicable. The attorney shall certify upon filing of the complaint that the
attorney is solely relying on the doctrines of ‘res ipsa loquitur” or failure
to inform of the consequences of a procedure or both, and for that reason is
not filing a certificate required by [Section 411.35].” (Code Civ. Proc., §
411.35, subd. (d).) Plaintiff contends that he was ignorant to the capacity of
DOE 1, and was thus, unable to file any such certificate under section 411.35. Plaintiff
notes that by filing a certificate pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
411.35, subdivision (d), after DOE 1’s counsel contacted Plaintiff’s counsel
indicating that Walker was a group of engineers, Section 411.35, subdivision
(d), made any other certificate requirements under Section 411.35 irrelevant. 
 
            This Court notes that on February
29, 2024, Plaintiff filed the DOE amendment substituting Defendant, Walker in
as DOE 1. Plaintiff confirms that a certificate under 411.35, subdivision (d)
was filed within sixty (60) days of naming DOE 1 to the lawsuit. In
distinguishing Curtis Eng’g Corp. v. Superior Court (2017) 16
Cal.App.5th 542, as relied upon by Defendant Walker, which did not include a
DOE Defendant, Plaintiff instead cites to McVeigh v. Doe 1 (2006) 138
Cal.App.4th 898. In McVeigh, a plaintiff filed a complaint within the
applicable statute of limitations but failed to file a certificate of merit.
However, within sixty (60) days of filing the original complaint, that same
Plaintiff filed a certificate. 
 
            Here, this Court finds that this
case is not analogous to that of McVeigh. In McVeigh, again, the
certificate was filed within sixty (60) days of the original complaint. Here,
Plaintiff did not file a certificate within sixty (60) days from when the
original complaint was filed, but within sixty (60) days of when Defendant
Walker was amended in as DOE 1. Further, this Court notes that the DOE
Defendants did not include any indication, nor did the original complaint, that
it was relying on the doctrine of res ipsa loquitur or failure to inform of the
consequences of a procedure or both. However, as noted in Plaintiff’s counsel’s
attached declaration of certification filed on April 3, 2024, and subsequently
judicially noticed as Exhibit 2, Kevin S. Conlogue indicates in paragraph 2 of
his declaration that Plaintiff will solely rely on the doctrine of “res ipsa
loquitur.”
 
            In its reply brief, Defendant Walker
contends that Plaintiff’s allegations, despite claiming to be solely based on
res ipsa loquitur, are based on general negligence allegations. The face of the
original complaint does indicate that that it is based on general negligence as
it alleges duty, breach, causation, and damages versus a presumption of
negligence based on injury and no competing negligence on the part of
Plaintiff. 
 
            Here, this Court notes that neither
party presents precedent directly on point, nor does it exist. As such, the
Court analyzes this issue based on the plain language of the statute. There,
the sixty (60) day allowance of time is as to the filing of the complaint, not
a DOE amendment, nor amended complaint. Further, a demurrer tests the
sufficiency of a pleading on its face. Although the declaration was judicially
noticed, it does not change the pleadings on the face of the complaint itself,
which does not state a cognizable claim for res ipsa loquitur, nor certify that
this is the sole doctrine relied upon against DOE 1. Further, the Court is puzzled
as to how Plaintiff could legitimately allege a res ipsa loquitur theory when a
solo bicyclist is alleged to have fallen from his bicycle while riding on a
curve, not a fact pattern where as a matter of law the plaintiff would be free
of negligence.  Thus, unless the parties
change this Court’s mind in oral argument, the Court’s tentative ruling will be
to SUSTAIN the demurrer to the first cause of action without leave to amend. 
 
 
Premises
Liability 
 
The
elements to assert a claim for premises liability are the same as those
required for a negligence cause of action. The elements of negligence are: (1) a duty to exercise
ordinary care; (2) breach of that duty; (3) causation; and (4) damages. (Ladd
v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.) Specifically,
Defendants argue that Plaintiff has not alleged a cognizable duty owed as
Defendant Walker did not own, possess, or control the premises. While those
who own, possess, or control property are not insurers of the safety of their
patrons, they generally have a duty to exercise reasonable and ordinary care in
keeping the premises reasonably safe and in managing the property¿to¿avoid
exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm.  (Ortega v. Kmart
Corp.¿(2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200, 1205; Annocki¿v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC¿(2014)
232¿Cal.App.4th 32, 37.)  The existence and scope of duty are legal
questions for the court.  (Annocki, 232¿Cal.App.4th.¿at¿36.) 
“A store owner exercises ordinary care by making reasonable inspections of the
portions of the premises open to customers, and the care required is
commensurate with the risks involved.”¿ (Ibid.)  If a dangerous
condition exists, the property owner is “under a duty to exercise ordinary care
either to make the condition¿reasonably safe for their¿[customers’]¿use or to
give a warning adequate to enable them to avoid the harm.”  (Bridgman
v. Safeway Stores, Inc.¿(1960) 53 Cal.2d 443, 446.)  The party
asserting the cause of action has the burden to prove that the owner had actual
or constructive notice of the dangerous condition in sufficient time to correct
it.  (Ortega, 26 Cal.4th at 1203, 1206.) 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff alleges
that the original complaint clearly alleges that: “Defendants owned, managed,
maintained, controlled, used, operated, supervised, inspected, and/or repaired
the property involved in this incident, adjacent property, improvements, and/or
fixtures thereon, and/or component parts thereof, in a negligent, careless,
reckless, unlawful, defective, and/or dangerous manner which were used in a
foreseeable manner involving unreasonable damages and/or risk not reasonably
apparent, without adequate warning, which caused injuries and damages to
Plaintiffs, and each of them, as alleged herein,” and thus, ownership has been
sufficiently alleged. This Court disagrees. 
 
            First, this allegation comes after
the general negligence action and is attached as attachment: GN-1. However,
this attachment’s first sentence reads: “Defendants: Slater Waterproofing,
Inc., Sika Corporation…” and then proceeds to that allegation. As such, at
minimum, this complaint is uncertain as this allegation appears to be
referencing only two named defendants and not DOE 1. However, even if it was
not uncertain, this Court notes that merely including such a conclusory
allegation is not enough to overcome the pleading requirement for premises
liability. Based on each of the named and unnamed defendants, an allegation
referencing each named and unnamed party as “defendants” and asserting they are
the owners, etc., of the subject premises are far to conclusory for this court
to overrule on demurrer. As such, the demurrer to the second cause of action is
SUSTAINED, but the Court will grant leave to amend if Plaintiff represents that
it can truthfully amend the allegations to more specifically allege Walker’s
role as the owner or operator of property where the claimed injury occurred. 
 
Products
Liability 
 
            Lastly, Defendant Walker demurs to the third cause of
action for products liability. As with a products liability action asserted
under a strict liability theory, under a negligence theory the plaintiff must
prove a defect caused the injury. (Chavez v. Glock, Inc. (2012) 207
Cal.App.4th 1283.) However, “[u]nder a negligence theory, a plaintiff must also
prove ‘an additional element, namely, that the defect in the product was due to
negligence of the defendant.’” (Merril v. Navegar, Inc. (2001) 26
Cal.4th 465, 479.)  Because Plaintiff’s
negligence cause of action is barred as discussed above, the Court views this
cause of action on the facts presented as a square peg not fitting into a round
hole.  A products liability claim is
generally unavailable when the alleged injury-causing activity of the defendant
is the rendition of a service rather than the sale or distribution of a
product.  California follows the Restatement
of Torts in precluding products liability claims for services.  (See, e.g., Murphy v. E/R. Squibb &
Sons. Inc. (1985) 40 Cal.3d 672, 677.) 
The careless rendition of a service by service professionals like
engineers may be the subject of a negligence theory, but generally not a product
liability or implied warranty theory.  (Allied
Properties v. John A. Blume & Associates (1972) 25 Cal.App.3d 848, 855-56.)  Here, the negligence theory against Walker is
forecloaed by the absence of a timely certificate or merit and the lack of a
proposed amendment purporting to state a res ipsa theory.  
 
 
 
III. CONCLUSION¿¿ 
 
For the foregoing reasons, the
Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED in part without leave to amend and SUSTAINED
in part with leave to amend. Plaintiff is allowed to present argument as to
whether this Court should allow twenty (20) days leave to amend.  
¿¿¿ 
Defendant Walker is ordered
to give notice.¿¿¿¿ 
 
  