 Case Number:  20STCV34421    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
SHAILA
  MANTRI, et al.;
 
                             Plaintiffs,
 
                              vs.
 
THOSE
  CERTAIN UNDERWRITERS AT
LLOYD’S,
  LONDON SUBSCRIBING TO
POLICY
  NUMBER HGB0140086, et al.;
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case No.:  20STCV34421
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  09/09/20
Trial
  Date:  03/03/25
 
 
 
 



 
Hearing Date:             September
18, 2024
Moving Parties:           Defendants,
Those Certain Underwriters at Lloyd’s, London, Subscribing to Policy Number
HGB0140086 (“Lloyd’s”) and Washington & Finnegan Inc. 
Responding Parties:    Plaintiffs,
Shaila Mantri, and Subhash Mantri
 
Motion
to Compel Compliance with Business Record Subpoena
 
The court
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. 
The court GRANTS
the Motion. However, the Court limits the request from November 2020 to January
2021. 
            
Background
            Plaintiffs
Shaila Mantri and Subhash Mantri filed this action on September 9, 2020 against
defendants Those Certain Underwriters At Lloyd’s, London Subscribing To Policy
Number HGB0140086 (or “Lloyd’s”); Joan Allyn Schultz dba Joan Schultz Insurance
Agency (erroneously sued as two separate entities); and Washington &
Finnegan, Inc., alleging causes of action for (1) Breach of Contract; (2)
Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (3) Negligence;
(4) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (5) Professional Negligence;
and (6) Fraud.
            The
Complaint alleges the following: Plaintiffs’ home was burglarized on November
30, 2019. (Compl., ¶ 1.) Plaintiffs submitted a claim to their insurance
carrier, Lloyd’s. (Id. at ¶ 1.) Instead of investigating, adjusting, and
paying the claim in a timely and reasonable manner, Lloyd’s unreasonably and in
bad faith disputed the veracity and extent of the claim, ignored reliable
documents that support the claim, and has thus far paid Plaintiffs nothing. (Id.
at ¶ 1.) Further, Plaintiffs learned that their insurance broker for their
insurance policy, Joan Schultz Insurance Agency, negligently and fraudulently
obtained woefully inadequate insurance coverage for Plaintiffs’ personal
property. (Id. at ¶ 2.) Schultz negligently and fraudulently represented
to Plaintiffs that they could only obtain personal property coverage with a
limit of $300,000. (Id. at ¶ 2.)
            On
March 22, 2024, Defendants filed the instant motion. On September 5, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed their opposition. On September 11, 2024, Defendants filed their reply. 
            On
September 10, 2024, Third-Party Witness Monica Weil filed a response/objection
to Defendants motion. 
Legal Standard
            A party seeking discovery from a
person who is not a party to the action may obtain discovery by oral
deposition, written deposition, or deposition subpoena for production of
business records.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010.)¿ A deposition subpoena may command:
(1) only the attendance and testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production
of business records for copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the
deponent, as well as the production of business records, other documents,
electronically stored information, and tangible things.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2020.020.)¿ 
            Code of Civil Procedure Section
2025.480 (b) provides that a motion to compel answers and production of
documents at deposition “…shall be made no later than 60 days after the
completion of the record of the deposition, and shall be accompanied by a meet
and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” Code of Civil Procedure Section
2016.040 states that “[a] meet and confer declaration in support of a motion
shall state facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal
resolution of each issue presented by the motion.”
            If a nonparty fails to obey a
deposition subpoena requiring the production of books and documents, the
subpoenaing party may seek a court order compelling the nonparty to comply with
the subpoena. Cal. Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1; Person v. Farmers Inc. Group of
Cos., 52 Cal. App. 4th 813, 818 (1997). 
 
Discussion
Timeliness 
As a preliminary manner, the deposition subpoena was served on January
26, 2024, and ordered the production of business records by February 26, 2024.
(Picker Decl. ¶ 6). However, no records were produced on February 26, 2024. (Id.
at ¶ 8). Thus, this motion has been properly made within 60 days after the
completion of the record. 
Merit
Defendants moved for an order to compel Dr. Monica Weil, Psy.D. to comply
with a deposition subpoena and for the production of business records
pertaining to professional psychological treatment rendered to Plaintiff Shaila
Mantri (“Plaintiff”). The subpoena demanded three categories of documents to be
produced: (1) Your file maintained or pertaining to any professional services
provided to Shaila Mantri, including but not limited to correspondence, emails,
notes, memoranda, and test results; (2) any and all documents that evidence to
any professional services provided to Shaila Mantri, including but not limited
to correspondence, emails, notes, memoranda, and test results; and (3) any and
all billing records or invoices concerning or evidencing professional services
rendered to Shaila Mantri. Defendants argue that the records requested from Dr.
Monica Weil are directly relevant because Plaintiff Shaila Mantri has placed
her physical and mental state in controversy by alleging extraordinary mental
and/or emotional distress. (Not. of Mot. at p. 7.)
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue that the requested information is
protected from disclosure by Plaintiff’s constitutional right of privacy. (Opp.
at p. 4.) Moreover, Plaintiff has not waived all private information protected
by the psychotherapist-patient because Defendants cannot obtain all
confidential and privileged information Plaintiff shared with Dr. Weil during
her psychological treatment. (Opp. at p.8.) Plaintiff requests if the Court is
inclined to grant Defendants’ Motion in its entirety, that the Court first
review the documents in camera and weigh the need for the disclosure with the
privacy rights afforded to Plaintiff. Thereafter, Plaintiff requests that if
any documents are to be produced, they are done so under a protective order.
Alternatively, Plaintiff would like the opportunity to obtain the records from
Dr. Weil and then produce the records with a privilege log of any documents
being withheld. (Opp. at p.9.)
In reply, Defendants argue that Plaintiffs did not serve a timely
objection to Defendants’ subpoena, nor did they file a motion to quash.
Moreover, Shaila Mantri's right to privacy with respect to her medical records
was waived when she identified Dr. Weil as a witness with respect to the
damages sought in this lawsuit. (Reply at p. 2.)
Dr. Monica Weil, PsyD. submits that she is not opposed to any Court Order
requiring her to provide Plaintiff, Shalia Mantri's mental health records. (Third
Party Witness Response/Objection at p. 5.)
Here, the court notes that there is no dispute that Plaintiff Shaila
Mantri placed her mental condition at-issue and identified Dr. Weil as a
witness who treated her for that condition. (Opp. at p. 5.) Plaintiff Shaila
Mantri seeks damages for psychological harm allegedly caused by Defendants’
conduct. Plaintiff Mantri’s discovery responses identified Dr. Weil as a health
care provider who treated her for the psychological injuries at issue. The
accident occurred in November 2020, but Plaintiff visited Dr. Weil from May
2020 to January 2021 for psychological treatment. Thus, the information sought
includes approximately six (6) months prior to the incident which would include
irrelevant information. Thus, it is appropriate to limit the information sought
from November 2020 to January 2021.  
Thus, the Court grants the Motion to Compel Compliance with Deposition
Subpoena. 
 
 
 
It is so
ordered.
 
Dated:
September 18, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court