  Case Number:  19STCV31606    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
BRIAN RUCKER, et al.
 
                             Plaintiff,
 
                              vs.
MISSION CRITICAL RESTORATION SERVICES, et
  al. 
                              Defendants.


Case No.:  19STCV31606
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  09/05/19
FAC
  Filed: 10/26/20
Trial
  Date:  11/04/24



 
Hearing
date:  September 18, 2024
Moving Part(ies):  Francis Malofiy, Esq. 
Responding
Party: Mission Critical Restoration Services, Inc.  
Pro
Hac Vice  
The Court
considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply. 
            The
motion is DENIED.
 
Background
            Plaintiffs
Brian Rucker and Valentina Malofiy filed this action on September 5, 2019.
Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (FAC) on October 26, 2020 against
ServPro Industries, Inc., Mission Critical Restoration Services, Inc. dba
ServPro of Torrance, Farmers Group, Inc., Farmers Insurance Exchange, and
Mid-Century Insurance Company, alleging causes of action for (1) Negligence;
(2) Breach of Fiduciary/Contract; (3) Declaratory Judgment/Breach of Contract;
(4) First Party Insurance Bad Faith – Tortious Breach of Implied Covenant of
Good Faith and Fair Dealings; and (5) Negligent Infliction of Emotional
Distress. Plaintiffs allege that Defendants negligently failed to correctly
mitigate smoke damage to Plaintiffs’ home, which led to the release of massive
amounts of asbestos that rendered the home unlivable. Plaintiffs also have bad
faith insurance claim.
            On August 23, 2024, Francis Malofiy,
Esq. filed the pro hac vice application. 
            On
September 5, 2024, Defendant filed its opposition. 
            
Legal
Standard
Pro hac vice admission in California is governed by California Rules of Court, Rule
9.40.  To be admitted pro hac vice, one must be “a member in good
standing of and eligible to practice before the bar of any United States court
or the highest court in any state, territory, or insular possession of the
United States.”  California Rules of Court, Rule 9.40(a).  However,
in no case shall an attorney appear pro hac vice if the attorney is a
resident of California, regularly employed in California, or “regularly engaged
in substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State of
California.”  Ibid.   
 
An attorney
seeking pro hac vice admission must file a verified application in both
court and the State Bar of California establishing:
 
(1) [t]he
applicant's residence and office address; (2)[t]he courts to
which the applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates of admission;
(3)[t]hat the
applicant is a member in good standing in those courts; (4)[t]hat the
applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (5)[t]he title of
court and cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as
counsel¿pro hac vice¿in this state in the preceding two years, the date
of each application, and whether or not it was granted; and (6)[t]he name,
address, and telephone number of the active member of the State Bar of
California who is attorney of record.  (California Rules of Court, Rule
9.40(d). )
 
Lastly, repeated
applications for pro hac vice appearance may result in denial. 
California Rules of Court, Rule 9.40(b).  
 
Discussion
            Merits
            Here,
Counsel Malofiy (“Counsel”) has not complied with California Rules of Court,
Rule 9.40. Counsel Malofiy states that he is not a resident of California. (Malofiy
Decl. ¶¶ 3,8.) Counsel is admitted to practice in the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania. (Malofiy Decl. ¶  4.) Counsel
is a member in good standing in Pennsylvania. (Malofiy Decl. ¶ 4.) However, Counsel
was suspended for three months and one day in 2016 in the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania regarding events in 2011 and has not been readmitted. (Id.
at ¶ 7.) Counsel has not asked to appear pro hac vice in the State of California.
(Id. at ¶ 9.) Counsel also provided the name, address, and telephone
number of Andrew T. Ryan who is Plaintiffs’ counsel of record. (Id. at ¶
10.)
            In
opposition, Defendant Mission Critical Restoration Services, Inc. dba Servpro
of Torrance (“Servpro”) argues that the pro hac vice application should be
denied because Attorney Malofiy was suspended not just for the improper conduct
with respect to the unrepresented defendant but also for his unprofessional
behavior during depositions. (Opp. at p. 2.) Defendant further argues that
before filing this application, Attorney Malofiy appeared at the inspection of
the subject house on Plaintiffs behalf and he “was belligerent, obstreperous
and attempted to and in fact imposed conditions on the inspection to the point
of threatening to deny access to the property despite the fact that no such
conditions had been imposed by this court, and had never even been mentioned or
brought up until Servpro, its counsel and two of its experts had arrived at the
property.” (Opp. at p. 3; McNamara ¶ 4.) 
            In
reply, Counsel submits Alfred J. Fluehr Esq.’s declaration who is working with
Mr. Malofiy and has been admitted pro hac vice in this case. He states, “I
asked Mr. Malofiy to open the asbestos-contaminated house for inspection and
provide protective gear on May 9, 2024.  .  .
[and] nothing about the task [he] gave Mr. Malofiy had anything to do with
practicing law.” (Fluehr Decl. ¶¶ 2-6.)
            The
Court notes that Mr. Malofiy’s involvement in the inspection did not constitute
the practicing of law because he did not provide legal advice, draft legal
documents, engage in legal negotiations, or provide representations and was
following Mr. Fluehr’s orders in opening the house and requiring protective
gear. However, Rule 9.40 requires that “[t]hat the
applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court,” but here, Mr. Malofiy
was suspended for three months and one day in 2016 in the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania regarding events in 2011 and has not been readmitted. (Malofiy
Decl. ¶ 7.)
            Therefore,
the Court DENIES the Pro Hac Vice application. 
            
 
            It
is so ordered.
 
Dated: September 18, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court
 