 Case Number:  24STCV18090    Hearing Date:   January 22, 2025    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


January 22, 2025




CASE NUMBER


24STCV18090




MOTIONS


Demurrer to First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendants Johann Baettig and Maria Baettig




OPPOSING PARTIES


None



 
MOTION
Plaintiffs Sante
Losio and Doriana Losio (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) assert habitability
violations against Defendants Johann Baettig and Maria Baettig (“Defendants”).  Defendants demur to the tenth cause of action
in Plaintiffs’ first amended complaint.  Plaintiffs
have not opposed the demurrer.
ANALYSIS
“It is black
letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the
allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal construction means that
the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
Plaintiffs’ tenth
cause of action is for housing discrimination under the Fair Employment and
Housing Act.  Pursuant to Government Code
section 12955, subdivision (a), it is unlawful “[f]or the owner of any housing
accommodation to discriminate against or harass any person because of the race,
color, religion, sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, sexual orientation,
marital status, national origin, ancestry, familial status, source of income,
disability, or genetic information of that person.” Plaintiffs fail to allege
facts that demonstrate Defendants discriminated against Plaintiffs based on any
protected characteristics.  (See First
Amended Complaint, ¶ 70 [Plaintiffs solely state Defendants did not “take all
reasonable steps to prevent discrimination from occurring”].)  Even though, in the tenth cause of action, Plaintiffs
refer to earlier allegations in the operative complaint, in detailing the issues
they faced at the premises in their allegations, nowhere have Plaintiffs attributed
any conduct on Defendant’s part relating to Defendants discriminating against them
on the basis of any protected category under Government Code section 12955,
subdivision (a).  
The Court,
therefore, sustains the demurrer to the tenth cause of action with leave to
amend.  Plaintiffs are to file an amended
complaint within 10 days.
Defendants are
ordered to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 
 