 Case Number:  24STCV20007    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  52 Greenland LA Metropolis Development v.
Northland Thea, LLC, et al
24STCV20007
Tentative
Order
Defendants/cross-complainants
Northland THEA LLC, Northland THEA Portfolio LLC, Northland THEA Portfolio II
LLC, Northland THEA Portfolio III LLC, and Northland THEA IV LLC apply ex parte
for a temporary restraining order prohibiting other parties from interfering
with or denying Northland’s access to portions of the MET-2 building located at
877 Francisco Street, Los Angeles, CA 90017.
Defendants
do not show sufficient grounds for a temporary restraining order granted on an
ex parte basis.  A court may only grant a temporary restraining order when
“[i]t appears from facts shown by affidavit or by the
verified complaint that great or irreparable injury will result to the
applicant before the matter can be heard on notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
527, subd. (c)(1).)  Defendants fail to satisfy this requirement.  
Defendants
assert they need this temporary restraining order to repair their building’s
seismic joints and address water intrusion.  The gravamen of the alleged
harm is potential property damage and financial loss due to lost income. 
There is insufficient evidence that any potential damage could not be
repaired.  Defendants have an adequate remedy at law for any alleged
financial loss they incur from now until the hearing on a motion for
preliminary injunction.  Defendants do not meet their burden of showing
great or irreparable injury will result before the matter can be heard on a
noticed motion.
Moreover,
cross-defendant and cross-complainant Metropolis Master Association makes
substantial arguments on the merits in its opposition to this application.  The issues are complex.  A regularly scheduled motion will give
interested parties a full and fair opportunity to gather evidence and brief the
issues.  It will also give the court more
time to consider and analyze the legal and fact issues presented.
Defendants
have not shown an emergency that justifies issuing a TRO before a hearing on a
motion for preliminary injunction.  Their application asserts the dispute
over repairing the seismic joints has persisted “[f]or at least the past 24
months.”  (Memo, p. 4.)  Defendants do not explain why the dispute is
suddenly an emergency.  
The
application is denied.  Defendants
may file a noticed motion for a preliminary injunction.