 Case Number:  22STCV30058    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiffs’ Motion for
Reconsideration of Order Sustaining Demurrer
Plaintiffs
Sima Ashrafi and Mohammad Ali Nateghi move for reconsideration of the court’s
order sustaining defendant Sandra
Mariana Vidal’s demurrer to plaintiffs’ cause of action for trespass.  A party may move for reconsideration “based
on new or different facts, circumstances, or law.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1008, subd. (a).)  A court may also reconsider an order on its
own motion when “there has been a change of law.”  (Id., subd. (c); accord In re Marriage of Barthold (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1301, 1308-1309.)  
On July 3, 2023, the court sustained defendant’s
demurrer to plaintiffs’ third cause of action for trespass without leave to
amend.  (Solberg Decl., Ex. 1.)  The court ruled plaintiffs could not state a
cause of action for trespass because plaintiffs only held an easement to use
the property and had no right to exclusive possession.  The court’s order relied primarily on the law
regarding exclusive easements as stated in Romero v. Shih (2022) 78
Cal.App.5th 326—which the California Supreme Court reversed in February
2024.  (Romero v. Shih (2024) 15
Cal.5th 680 (Romero).)  The
California Supreme Court’s opinion in Romero constitutes a change in law
that warrants revisiting this court’s order on defendant’s demurrer.  The court finds, however, that this new law
does not merit changing the ruling on the demurrer.
As discussed at length in the court’s statement of
decision after the bench trial, the court found that, under Romero, plaintiffs
“have an exclusive easement over” the disputed portion of defendant’s real property.  The court further found, “The easement does
not include subsurface rights.  The
easement does not take away the right of defendant and her
successors-in-interests to calculate the minimum setback from the property line
and the maximum floor area ratio of defendant’s house under applicable zoning
laws.”
Plaintiffs’ right to this easement, however, does
not mean plaintiffs may bring an action for trespass.  “Trespass is an invasion of the plaintiff’s
interest in the exclusive possession of land.” 
(McBride v. Smith (2018) 18 Cal.App.5th 1160, 1173.)  “Thus, in order to state a cause of action
for trespass a plaintiff must allege an unauthorized and tangible entry on the
land of another, which interfered with the plaintiff’s exclusive possessory
rights.”  (Id. at p. 1174.)  A plaintiff in a trespass action need not own
the property.  “ ‘The cause of action for
trespass affords protection for a possessory, not necessarily an ownership
interest.’ ”  (Spinks v. Equity
Residential Briarwood Apartments (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1004, 1042.)  
Despite plaintiffs’ easement over the property, they
do not allege sufficient facts to show they have a possessory interest in the
property.  “The exclusivity of an
easement is not so much a binary attribute — either an easement is exclusive or
it is not — as a matter of degree. [Citation.] 
Exclusivity in this context ‘includes two aspects: who may be excluded
and the uses or area from which they may be excluded.’  [Citation.] 
At one end of the spectrum, easement holders may be limited to narrow,
specific uses of the property, and may have ‘no right to exclude anyone from
making any use that does not unreasonably interfere’ with those narrow uses.  [Citation.] 
At the other end of the spectrum, easement holders may possess ‘the
right to exclude everyone, including the servient owner, from making any use of
the land within the easement boundaries.’ 
[Citation].”  (Romero, supra,
15 Cal.5th at pp. 694-695.)
“Though an easement may be broadly exclusive, it is
nonetheless necessarily limited in scope.  An easement is ‘considered a nonpossessory
interest in land because it generally authorizes limited uses of the
burdened property for a particular purpose,’ leaving the property owner ‘the
right to make all uses of the land that do not unreasonably interfere with
exercise of the rights granted by the [easement].’ ”  (Romero, supra,15 Cal.5th at p. 695,
italics added.)  “Broadly exclusive
easements ‘may involve uses that make any actual use of the premises by the
transferor unlikely, but they are still considered nonpossessory interests
if the transferor is not excluded from the entire parcel and retains the right
to make uses that would not interfere with the easement.’ ”  (Ibid., italics added.)
In Romero’s parlance, plaintiffs have a “broadly
exclusive” easement over the disputed portion of the property.  But their easement is not so exclusive as to
constitute an exclusive possessory right in the property.  Plaintiffs’ second amended complaint thus
does not allege sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action for trespass.  
            Plaintiffs Sima Ashrafi and Mohammad
Ali Nateghi’s motion for reconsideration is denied.  