 Case Number:  23STCV25510    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
EMPLOYERS PREFERRED INSURANCE COMPANY,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
ANGEL CARE HOME HEALTH
  INC., 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV25510
  Hearing Date:  April 3, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion for assignment of
  payment rights 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On October 18, 2023, Plaintiff Employers
Preferred Insurance Company filed this action for breach of contract against
Defendant Angel Care Home Health Inc. On February 7, 2024, default judgment was
entered against Defendant in the amount of $177,327.75. 
            On March 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant motion for assignment of payment rights. Defendant has not filed an
opposition. 
LEGAL STANDARD
“[U]pon application of the judgment
creditor on noticed motion, the court may order the judgment debtor to assign
to the judgment creditor . . . all or part of a right to payment due or to
become due . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.510(a).) “A right to payment may be
assigned pursuant to this article only to the extent necessary to satisfy the
money judgment.” (Id., subd. (d).) “When an application is made pursuant
to Section 708.510 or thereafter, the judgment creditor may apply to the court
for an order restraining the judgment debtor from assigning or otherwise
disposing of the right to payment that is sought to be assigned.” (Id.,
§ 708.520(a).)
DISCUSSION
            There is no dispute that judgment
was entered against Defendant or that Defendant has failed to satisfy the
judgment. (Aires Decl. ¶ 3.) There is also no dispute that Defendant operates a
home health agency licensed by the California Department of Public Health. (Id.,
Ex. B.) Plaintiff seeks an assignment of payment rights from the following
sources: 
            
“Medicare,
Medicaid, Medi-Cal, Aetna Medicare, Alignment Health Plan, Anthem Blue Cross,
Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Co., Anthem Blue Cross Partnership
Plan, Aspire Health, Astiva Health, Blue Shield of California, Brand New Day,
CCA Health California, CCHP (Chinese Community Health Plan), Central Health
Medicare Plan, Clever Care Health Plan, Humana, Imperial Health Plan of
California Inc., Kaiser Permanente, Molina Healthcare of California, Providence
Medicare Advantage Plans, SCAN Health Plan, Sharp Health Plan,
UnitedHealthcare, Wellcare, Wellcare by Health Net, Western Health Advantage,
or any other private or public payor exist in favor of Defendant/Judgment
Debtor Angel Care Home Health Inc.” 
 
(Aires Decl. ¶ 5.) 
The Code authorizes an assignment of payment
rights that are currently due or “to become due,” even if the payment right is
conditioned on future developments. (Code Civ. Proc., § 708.510(a).) Defendant
does not contest that Plaintiff is entitled to an assignment from these payment
sources. 
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion for assignment of
payment rights is GRANTED. 