 Case Number:  22STCV26562    Hearing Date:   April 3, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
DOMINIQUE LOUISSAINT,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCV26562
  Hearing Date:  April 3, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motions to compel further
  responses 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On August 16, 2022, Plaintiff
Dominique Louissaint filed this employment discrimination action against
Defendant County of Los Angeles. Plaintiff, an African-American nurse in the
Department of Health Services, alleges that she has been routinely denied
promotion on the basis of her race. Plaintiff additionally alleges that she has
been subjected to retaliation for reporting unlawful hiring practices. 
            On January 22, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant three motions to compel further responses to form interrogatories,
special interrogatories, and requests for production. Defendant filed its
oppositions on March 20, 2024. Plaintiff filed her replies on March 26, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
Upon receiving responses to its discovery
requests, the propounding party may move for an order compelling further
responses if the responses are incomplete or evasive, or objections are without
merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(a), 2031.310(a),
2033.290(a).) 
MEET AND CONFER
A motion to compel further must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to
resolve the matter informally. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300(b)(1),
2031.310(b), 2033.290(b).) 
Defendant served its discovery responses
on October 17, 2023. (Simms Decl. ¶ 7.) Plaintiff sent a meet and confer letter
on November 22, 2023 with an extension of time to respond. (Simms Decl. ¶ 9.)
Defendant agreed to serve supplemental responses, with a corresponding
extension of time for Plaintiff to file motions to compel. (Id., ¶ 10.)
Plaintiff granted two more extensions in December 2023 and January 2024, with
the last deadline being January 16, 2024. (Id., ¶¶ 11-13.) Defendant
supplemented some responses but not the ones at issue in this motion. (Id.,
¶ 14.) On January 18, 2024, Plaintiff proposed an informal discovery conference
(IDC), but Defendant refused. (Id., ¶ 15.) 
Defendant argues that Plaintiff failed to
meet and confer because she only sent one letter back in November 2023 and
filed this motion without any further correspondence. However, Plaintiff’s
November 2023 letter sufficiently sets forth Plaintiff’s contentions with
regards to the discovery requests at issue. The parties also maintained contact
afterwards and agreed on multiple further extensions for Defendant to respond.
Plaintiff then proposed an IDC to resolve outstanding issues. Given these
circumstances, Plaintiff was not required to reiterate her position in a second
letter. The Court finds that Plaintiff has satisfied the meet and confer
requirement.   
DISCUSSION
I.
Form Interrogatories
An answer to an interrogatory must be as
complete and straightforward as possible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.220(a).) A
party “is entitled to demand answers to its interrogatories, as a matter of
right . . . [and] the burden of justifying any objection and failure to
respond remains at all times with the party resisting an interrogatory.” (Williams
v. Sup. Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 541.) Form Interrogatories are drafted
and approved by the Judicial Council and seek basic information fundamental to
routine discovery. (See Puerto, supra, 158 Cal.App.4th at p. 1250.) 
Other than its objection based on
vagueness, Defendant does not attempt to justify any of the objections it
asserted in response to the subject FROGs. Instead, Defendant argues that the
motion is frivolous and moot because Plaintiff failed to meet and confer, and Defendant
has served supplemental responses. As discussed above, Plaintiff properly met
and conferred prior to filing this motion. The motion is not frivolous just
because Defendant served supplemental responses; Defendant only served those
responses after Plaintiff filed this motion, demonstrating that the motion was
indeed necessary to obtain proper responses. The supplemental responses are not
at issue in this motion and have no bearing on the Court’s ruling.
            As to vagueness, Defendant argues
that the requests failed to define the term “incident.” However, the FROGs
clearly define “incident” as “the circumstances and events surrounding the
alleged accident, injury, or other occurrence or breach of contract giving rise
to this action or proceeding.” (Simms Decl., Ex. A.) This is a standard definition
included in the FROGs drafted by the Judicial Council and is not vague or
ambiguous. Defendant is readily capable of reading the complaint and
determining the occurrences and injuries giving rise to this action.
II.
Special Interrogatories
            As discussed above, Defendant’s
arguments regarding meet and confer and supplemental responses are without
merit. Defendant stands on its objections based on privacy, relevance, and
vagueness. 
            a. Privacy
            “The party asserting a privacy right
must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion
that is serious.” (Williams v. Sup. Ct. (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552.) The
party seeking discovery need not demonstrate a compelling need for the
information unless there is “an obvious invasion of an interest fundamental to
personal autonomy.” (Id. at p. 556.)
SROG No. 11 asked Defendant to identify
all employees working under the same supervisor as Plaintiff who were also
reprimanded at the same time as Plaintiff. Defendant fails to demonstrate a
reasonable expectation of privacy in mere identifying information, nor does
Defendant show that discovery of this information constitutes a serious
intrusion. “The disclosure of the names and addresses of potential
witnesses is a routine and essential part of pretrial discovery.” (Puerto
v. Superior Court (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1249-50.) 
b. Relevance
“[A]ny party may obtain discovery
regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in
that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.) “‘Relevant’ evidence is evidence ‘having any tendency
in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of consequence to the
determination of the action.’” (D.Z. v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist.
(2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 210, 229.) 
Given this broad standard of relevance,
and the routine nature of witness information, the identifying information
sought by the SROGs is relevant. 
c. Vagueness
Where “the nature of the information
sought is apparent, the proper solution is to provide an appropriate response,”
even if “the question is somewhat ambiguous.” (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978)
84 Cal.App.3d 771, 783.) 
Defendant argues that the SROGs are
ambiguous because they do not clearly define the term “reprimand.” This is not
a credible objection. Given Defendant’s position as an employer, and the nature
of the allegations, Defendant clearly understands what is meant by “reprimand.”

III.
Requests for Production
The party seeking production of documents
bears the initial burden of showing good cause through a fact-specific showing
of relevance. (Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.)
Once this showing is made, the burden shifts to the responding party to justify
any objections. (Ibid.)  
Plaintiff’s separate statement
sufficiently sets forth good cause for the requests at issue. As discussed
above, Defendant’s arguments regarding meet and confer and supplemental
responses are without merit. Defendant only stands on its privilege objection
as it pertains to RFP No. 19. However, Defendant voluntarily produced documents
responsive to RFP No. 19 once a protective order was in place, thus Defendant’s
privilege concerns appear to have been assuaged. Otherwise, there is no real
dispute that good cause exists for the subject RFPs, or that Defendant’s
initial responses were inadequate. 
IV.
Sanctions
            Defendant’s failure to properly
respond is not supported by substantial justification. As such, sanctions are
warranted. Plaintiff’s counsel’s hourly rate is $395, which is reasonable. (See
Simms Decl. ¶ 2.) Given the simplicity of the motions, the Court finds that 4
hours total is reasonable. Therefore, sanctions are awarded in the amount of
$1,580.
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motions to compel
further responses are GRANTED. The Court sanctions Defendant and its counsel in
the total amount of $1,580, to be paid within 30 days. 
   