 Case Number:  BC611486    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



GABRILE RUEDA, also known as GABRIEL SALVADOR (an individual),
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
EMMANUEL D. PACQUIAO (an individual); FREDERICK ROACH, (an
  individual); KEITH M. DAVIDSON (an individual); CBS CORPORATION (a Delaware
  corporation); SHOWTIME NETWORKS, Inc. (a Delaware corporation); and DOES 1-25,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          BC611486
 Hearing Date:   October
  11, 2024
 Trial Date: November 18, 2024         
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Emmanuel
  D. Pacquiao’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the
  Alternative, Summary Adjudication [RES ID # 6665]



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda (Rueda)
sues Defendants Emmanuel Pacquiao (Pacquiao), Frederick (Freddie) Roach, Keith
M. Davidson, Paramount Global (f/k/a ViacomCBS, f/k/a CBS Corporation),
Showtime Networks, Inc. (Showtime), and Does 1-25 pursuant to a February 2,
2024, Third Amended Complaint (TAC). The TAC alleges claims of: (1) Breach of
Oral Contract against the Showtime Defendants and Freddie Roach; (2) Omitted
[Breach of Implied Contract; Dismissed by the Court]; (3) Common Counts for
Labor, Work, and Services against the Showtime Defendants and Freddie Roach;
(4) Quantum Meruit against the Showtime Defendants and Freddie Roach; (5) Fraud
in the Inducement against Freddie Roach; (6) Fraudulent Misrepresentation
against Freddie Roach; (7) Omitted [Unjust Enrichment; Dismissed by the Court];
(8) Omitted [Attempted Extortion; Dismissed by the Court]; and (9) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress against the Showtime Defendants, Freddie
Roach, Defendant Pacquiao, and Defendant Davidson. 
The claims arise from allegations
that Rueda, pursuant to an unpaid finder’s fee, introduced Leslie Moonves, the
then-president of CBS Corporation and Showtime Networks, to Defendant Roach,
who was the trainer and confidant of boxer Pacquiao. Moonves allegedly used the
introduction to broker a bout between Pacquiao and boxer Floyd Mayweather
Jr.—dubbed the “Fight of the Century”—that earned Pacquiao, Mayweather, and
Showtime Networks more than $430 million. According to Rueda, he is entitled to
2% of the gross proceeds from the fight received by Roach, Pacquiao, and
Paramount and Showtime.
B. Motion Before the Court
On July 25, 2024, Defendant Emmanuel
Pacquiao filed the instant motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative,
summary adjudication, “of the two severable claims within the Ninth Cause[] of
Action asserted by [Rueda] against Pacquiao in the Third Amended Complaint.”
(Notice of Motion at p. 2.)
On September 30, 2024, Rueda filed
an opposition to the motion. 
On October 3, 2024, Pacquiao filed
a reply. 
 
II. Motion
A. Requests for Judicial Notice
Pursuant to Evidence Code section
452, subdivision (d), the Court may take judicial notice of “[r]ecords of (1)
any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of
any state of the United States”. The court however may not take judicial notice
of the truth of the contents of the documents. (Herrera v. Deutsche Bank
National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.) Documents are only
judicially noticeable to show their existence and what orders were made such
that the truth of the facts and findings within the documents are not
judicially noticeable. (Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich,
Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 885.)  
Per Pacquiao’s request, the Court
takes judicial notice of the following: 
(1)  
The February 24, 2015 Complaint in this action (Ex. 1) 
(2)  
This Court’s July 13, 2023 Minute Order (Ex. 2)
(3)  
This Court’s April 25, 2024 Minute Order (Ex. 3)
(4)  
This Court May 24, 2024 Minute Order (Ex. 4)
(Mot., RJN, Exs. 1-4.)
Per Rueda’s request, the Court
takes judicial notice of the following: 
(1)  
This Court’s March 5, 2019 (Ex. A)
(2)  
The Declaration of Keith Davidson in Support of Special
Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s Complaint Pursuant to C.C.P. § 425.6 (Ex. C)
(3)  
This Court’s August 4, 2016 Minute Order (Ex. D)
The Court declines to take judicial
notice of Exhibit B because it is not relevant to the Court’s decision on this
motion. 
 (Opp., RJN, Exs. A-D.) 
B. Evidentiary Objections
In granting or denying a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only on those
objections to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of the motion.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).) 
Rueda Evidentiary Objections to Motion:
Not ruled on as not material to disposition of the motion. 
Pacquiao Evidentiary Objections to
Opposition:  
Objection No. 1: SUSTAINED 
Remaining Objections: Not ruled on
as not material to disposition of the motion. 
C. Legal Standard
A motion for summary judgment shall
be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as
to any material fact for trial or that the moving party is entitled to a
judgment as a matter of law. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) 
The moving party bears the initial
burden of production to make a prima facie showing that no triable issue of
material fact exists. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25
Cal.4th 826, 850.) To meet this burden, a defendant must show not only “that
the plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the
plaintiff cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.”¿(Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out
the absence of evidence.¿(Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884,
891.)¿The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot
reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿(Ibid.)¿The
supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿(Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.) 
“Once the defendant … has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff … to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) The
plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to
show that a triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set
forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists
as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿“If the plaintiff cannot do so,
summary judgment should be granted.”¿(Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical
Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)  
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.¿[Citation.]¿Only when the
inferences are indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of
law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by
trial.”¿(Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832,
839.)¿Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.¿[Citation.]¿Nor may
the trial court grant summary judgment based on the court’s evaluation of
credibility. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that party”].) 
D. Analysis
The sole remaining claim in the Third
Amended Complaint which is asserted against Pacquiao is the ninth claim for intentional
infliction of emotional distress. “A cause of action for intentional infliction
of emotional distress [IIED] exists when there is ‘(1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.’ A
defendant’s conduct is ‘outrageous’ when it is so ‘extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ And the defendant’s
conduct must be ‘intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization
that injury will result.’” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035,
1050-1051].) 
Pacquiao argues that the IIED claim fails because Pacquiao
did not, directly or indirectly [the two “severable claims”], engage in outrageous
conduct that caused Rueda severe emotional distress.
1.     Direct Liability for
IIED
Here, it is undisputed that Pacquiao
and Rueda have never met, spoken, or directly communicated. (UMF 1-2.) The
parties also do not dispute that Pacquiao did not personally threaten, harass, assault
or personally participate in the conduct that caused Rueda’s emotional
distress. (UMF 3-8.; Opp. to UMF 3-8) 
Thus, Pacquiao
has met his initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing that no
triable issue of material fact exists as to his direct liability for IIED. Rueda
does not argue otherwise. (Opp., p. 19:17-19.)
2.     Vicarious Liability for
IIED
a.      Agency 
Agency is either actual or ostensible.  (Civ. Code
§2298.)  An agency is actual when the agent is employed by the
principal.  (Civ. Code §2299.)  An ostensible agency is established when a principal intentionally, or
by want of care, causes a third person to believe another is an agent.  (Civ.
Code §§ 2300, 2317.) 
 A person is
liable for the torts committed by his agent when the acts are committed within
the scope of the agency or where the principal directed, authorized, or
otherwise ratified the acts of its agents. (Montague v. AMN Healthcare, Inc.
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1515, 1520; Desai v. Farmers Insurance Exchange
(1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1118.) 
The essential elements of ostensible agency liability are (1)
representations by the principal, (2) justifiable reliance thereon by a third
party and (3) change of position or injury resulting from such reliance. 
(Hartong v. Partake Inc. (1968) 266 Cal.App.2d 942, 960.) Before
recovery can be had against the principal for the acts of an ostensible agent, the
person dealing with an agent must do so with belief in the agent’s authority
and this belief must be a reasonable one.  (Ibid.)  Such
belief must be generated by some act or neglect by the principal sought to be
charged and the¿person relying on the agent's apparent authority must not be
guilty of neglect (Ibid.)¿ Ostensible agency
cannot be established by the representations or conduct of the purported agent;
the statements or acts of the principal must be such as to cause the third
party to believe the agency exists. (Ibid.)  
Here, Pacquiao argues first
that there is no actual agency relationship because there is no evidence that
he authorized or directed anyone to engage in harassing or threatening behavior
against Rueda. (UMF 15, 57.) He states that he did not hire Davidson to
represent him with respect to Rueda or authorize Davidson to do anything on his
behalf. (UMF 23-24, 26.) Pacquiao further asserts that while he has worked with
Davidson and Khan in the past, his business relationship with them ended in
January 2007. (UMF 20-14.) 
Second,
Pacquiao argues that there is no ostensible agency relationship because Pacquiao
and Rueda have never met or communicated (UMF 1-2.). Accordingly, Pacquiao
argues that he could not have caused Rueda to believe that Davidson, or any
other party, were employed by Pacquiao. He argues that “[o]stensible authority
of an agent cannot be established based solely by the agent’s conduct.” (Reply
pp. 7-8, quoting Lindsay-Field v. Friendly (1995) 36 Cal.App.4th 1728,
1734.) But rather, “[l]iability of the principal for the acts of an ostensible
agent rests on the doctrine of estoppel, the essential elements of which are
representations made by the principal, justifiable reliance by a third party,
and a change of position from such reliance resulting in injury.” (Reply p. 8,
quoting Preis v. American Indemnity Co. (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 752, 761.)

Thus,
Pacquiao has met his initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing
that no triable issue of material fact exists as to his vicarious liability for
IIED under an agency theory. 
In
opposition, Rueda argues that Roach, Davidson, and Khan were all actual agents
of Pacquiao. He asserts that Roach was Pacquiao’s boxing trainer and manager (AMF
7, 16-20), and that Davidson and Khan had previously acted as Pacquiao’s co-managers
and lawyers (AMF 30.) Further, Rueda argues that Pacquiao can be held liable
under an ostensible agency relationship theory because Rueda reasonably believed
that Roach and Davidson had authority to act as agents on Pacquiao’s behalf because
Roach had previously purported to act on Pacquiao’s behalf and Davidson had
told Rueda he was a close friend of Pacquiao and Roach. (Opp. p. 16; UMF 13-14;
AMF 47.) Lastly, Rueda argues that even if Pacquiao did not authorize the harassing
and threatening conduct, Pacquiao can still be held liable if he ratified the
conduct. (Opp. p. 18.) Rueda argues that one can conclude that Pacquiao
ratified Davidson’s actions because the “tortious acts occurred immediately
after defendants authorized Khan and Davidson to act on their behalf.” (Opp. p.
19.) 
However,
Rueda’s arguments are unavailing. First, Rueda has not cited any evidence that Pacquiao
actually employed, directed or authorized anyone to threaten or harass him. The
fact that Pacquiao had hired Davidson and Khan in years past, does not
establish an actual agency relationship as to the current allegations. Second,
while it may not have been entirely unreasonable for Rueda to assume that Roach
or Davidson were acting on Pacquiao’s behalf based on their communications to
him, Rueda's belief alone is insufficient to establish ostensible authority. “Ostensible agency cannot be
established by the representations or conduct of the purported agent; the
statements or acts of the principal must be such as to cause the third party to
believe the agency exists.” (Hartong, supra, 266 Cal.App.2d at 960.)
Rueda does not allege any statements of or acts by Pacquiao that led to his
belief that Roach or Davidson were Pacquiao’s agents. Finally, while a
principal can be held liable for an agent’s tortious conduct if the principal
ratifies the conduct, as discussed above, Rueda has not set forth specific
facts that establish that Roach or Davidson were his agents. 
Thus, Rueda has not met his burden to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to establishing a cause of action
against Pacquiao for IIED based on an agency relationship. 

b.     Conspiracy 
“[T]he
basis of a civil conspiracy is the formation of a group of two or more persons
who have agreed to a common plan or design to commit a tortious act. The
conspiring defendants must also have actual knowledge that a tort is planned
and concur in the tortious scheme with knowledge of its unlawful purpose.” (Kidron
v. Movie Acquisition Corp. (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1571, 1582) (cleaned up). “Knowledge
of the planned tort must be combined with intent to aid in its commission.” (Ibid.)

However,
such knowledge and intent “may be inferred from the nature of the acts done,
the relation of the parties, the interests of the alleged conspirators, and
other circumstances.” (Wyatt v. Union Mortgage Co. (1979) 24 Cal.3d 773,
785). 
Here,
Pacquiao argues that Rueda’s conspiracy allegation is based on speculation, without
supporting evidence, that Pacquiao knew about, agreed to, or aided in a scheme
to terrorize Rueda. Pacquiao asserts that there is no evidence connecting him
to Rueda’s meetings with Davidson in June 2015 and that he did not know that
Rueda was even asserting a claim for a finder’s fee against him until 2016. (UMF
45; Pacquiao Decl. ¶ 21.) 
Thus,
Pacquiao has met his initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing
that no triable issue of material fact exists as to his vicarious liability for
IIED under a conspiracy theory. 
In
opposition, Rueda argues that proof of a conspiracy can be inferred from
circumstantial evidence. Rueda asserts that Pacquiao’s motive to dissuade Rueda
from pursuing a finder’s fee and the temporal proximity between Davidson’s
threats and the third-party tortious conduct is enough circumstantial evidence
to support an inference of conspiracy. 
While
it is true that proof of a conspiracy may reasonably be inferred from indirect
and circumstantial evidence, Rueda has not shown sufficient circumstances to do
so here. Pacquiao has an obvious motive to avoid paying Rueda a finder’s fee. Nonetheless,
construing the papers in the light most favorable to the non-moving party, as
the Court must, Pacquiao’s “role in the chain of causation” is far too
attenuated to reasonably infer, as a matter of law, that he was involved in a
conspiracy to harass and threaten Rueda. Rueda recites the chain of causation
as follows: “After Rueda met with Moonves to discuss his finder’s fee, Moonves
determined that Roach and Pacquiao needed to be involved, and roped in Nick
Khan (Roach’s agent and lawyer and Pacquiao’s former manager and lawyer) and
Davidson (Pacquiao’s prior comanager and lawyer) to act on everybody’s behalf.
(Rueda’s UMF 29-32.) Davidson thereafter contacted Rueda, purporting to be a
close friend of Pacquaio and Roach, and Pacquiao’s former business manager.
(Rueda’s UMF 47.) Moreover, after Davidson threatened Rueda, Rueda was harassed
by men he believed to be members of the Wild Card Gym (which Roach owned and
where Pacquiao trained) and was attacked by a man who was sitting with Roach,
Richie Palmer, and Liam Vaughan (Pacquiao’s sparring partner). (Rueda’s UMF 69,
73.) Indeed, all the tortious conduct that occurred after Davidson’s threats to
Rueda can be traced back to defendants collectively, and certainly back to
Pacquiao.” (Opp. p. 22.) 
Pacquiao’s involvement in the above
chain of events is notably lacking. While it is undisputable that Pacquiao
knows many of the offending parties, Rueda does not offer even circumstantial facts
that Pacquiao knew of the specific conduct or aided in its commission. Rueda compares
the circumstances here to the facts of Balistreri v. Turner (1964) 227
Cal.App.2d 236. In Balistreri, the plaintiff alleged that defendants
Turner and Burnside, and a third-party, Mercer, conspired to assault and injure
him. (Ibid.) The Court of Appeal found that there was sufficient
evidence of a relationship between the defendants and Mercer to support an inference
that the assault was in furtherance of a conspiracy. (Id. at 242.) There,
defendant Turner hired Mercer three months prior to the assault, Mercer admitted
that defendant Burnside assaulted the plaintiff at the his suggestion,
defendant Burnside visited defendant Turner’s office immediately after the
assault, and two days after the assault, defendant Burnside was admitted to a
school of which defendant Turner was president. (Ibid.) Thus, even there
was no evidence of an actual agreement to conspire, the circumstantial evidence
leading up to and directly following the assault, was sufficient to support an
inference of a conspiracy. (Ibid.) 
The circumstances in the present
case are readily distinguishable, in that there is no evidence that Pacquiao had
any communication or interaction with the other Defendants, alleged
co-conspirators, or Rueda’s assailants in the time preceding or following the
alleged tortious conduct. The mere fact that Pacquaio knows Davidson and worked
with him in years past, without more, does not support an inference that Pacquaio
conspired to assault or harass Rueda. 
Thus,
Rueda has not met his burden to show that a triable issue of one or more
material facts exists as to establishing a cause of action against Pacquiao for
IIED based on conspiracy.
Accordingly, there is a no genuine
issue of material fact regarding Pacquiao’s liability for intentional
infliction of emotional distress. 
III. Conclusion
Defendant Emmanuel D. Pacquiao’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
Defendant Emmanuel D. Pacquiao’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is
denied as MOOT.  