  Case Number:  22STCV13246    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  55  
NATURE OF PROCEEDINGS:  Defendant ABC Unified School District’s
Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings 
Defendant ABC Unified School District’s Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED with prejudice as to the Third Cause of
Action for Retaliation in Violation of Gov’t Code §1102.5.
Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
Plaintiffs Maria Cota, Judi Dixon, Linda Harbin, and
Theresa Montenegro are or were employed as Cafeteria Manager IIs with Defendant
ABC Unified School District (“ABC School District”).  In this case, Plaintiffs allege that ABC School
District paid them less than other male employees in similar jobs, and Plaintiff
Montenegro alleges that ABC School District discriminated against her based on
her disability (torn meniscus in her left knee) and refused to reasonably
accommodate her disability.  
Plaintiffs’ FAC alleges claims against ABC School
District, including the third cause of action for retaliation in violation of Labor
Code Section 1102.5. On 1/10/24, the Court granted ABC School District’s motion
for judgment on the pleadings to the first cause of action in the FAC for
violation of Labor Code Section 1197.5. 
ABC School District has now filed another motion for
judgment on the pleadings as to the third cause of action. Plaintiffs oppose
the motion.  
MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS 
“Judgment on the pleadings is akin to a demurrer and
is properly granted only if the complaint does not state facts sufficient to
state a cause of action against that defendant. The grounds for the motion must
appear on the face of the complaint, and in any matters subject to judicial
notice. The court accepts as true all material factual allegations, giving them
a liberal construction, but it does not consider conclusions of fact or law,
opinions, speculation, or allegations contrary to law or judicially noticed
facts. Appellate courts review the record de novo to determine whether the
complaint states a cause of action as a matter of law.” (Shea Homes Limited
Partnership v. County of Alameda (2003) 110 Cal.App.4th 1246, 1254.)
ANALYSIS
ABC School District moves for judgment on the
pleadings of Plaintiffs’ third cause of action for retaliation in violation of
Labor Code §1102.5 (“Section 1102.5”), arguing that Plaintiffs did not file a
claim with ABC School District as required under the Tort Claims Act, nor are
they relieved from the claims requirement due to the nature of their
claim.  
Plaintiffs’ third cause of action seeks damages for violation
of Section 1102.5(b), which provides “an employer…shall not retaliate against
an employee for disclosing information, or because the employer believes the
employee disclosed or may disclose information, to a government or law
enforcement agency … if the employee has reasonable cause to believe that the
information discloses a violation of state or federal statute, or a violation
of or noncompliance with a local, state, or federal rule or regulation,
regardless of whether disclosing the information is part of the employee’s job
duties.”   
Subject to certain exceptions set forth in Government
Code Section 905 (“Section 905”), a plaintiff suing a public entity must first
present a timely written claim for damages to the entity. (Gov’t Code § 945.4; Johnson
v. San Diego Unified Sch. Dist. (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 692, 696.) Section
905(c) provides an exception to the claims presentation requirement for “[c]laims
by public employees for fees, salaries, wages, mileage, or other expenses and
allowances.”  (Government Code §905(c).)  
Plaintiffs fail to establish that the Tort Claims Act
does not apply to Section 1102.5 claims for retaliation.  The purpose of the Tort Claims Act is to give
the public entity an opportunity to investigate and evaluate its potential
liability. (Fall River Joint Unified School Dist. v. Superior Court
(1988) 206 Cal.App.3d 431, 435.) 
Plaintiffs’ Section 1102.5 claim falls within the scope of the Tort
Claims Act, as it was pleaded against a public entity and sought money or
damages.  (Le Mere v. Los Angeles
Unified School Dist. (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 237, 247-248 (affirming
order sustaining demurrer without leave to amend to Labor Code §1102.5 claim
against LAUSD based on failure to comply with Tort Claims Act); Loehr v.
Ventura County Community College Dist. (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 1071, 1079 (although
the Tort Claims Act does not define the term “money or damages,” the term “is
comprehensive in scope and includes tort claims arising out of negligence,
nuisance, breach of statutory duties, and intentional wrongs”).)
Plaintiffs fail to allege compliance with the Tort
Claims Act in connection with their Section 1102.5(b) claim.  Plaintiffs do not allege anywhere in their FAC
that they submitted a timely claim pursuant to Government Code §§905 and 945.4 notifying
ABC School District of Plaintiffs’ Section 1102.5 retaliation claim.  Failure to allege facts demonstrating or
excusing compliance with the requirement subjects a complaint to general
demurrer for failure to state a cause of action.  (State of California v. Superior Court
(2004) 32 Cal.4th 1234, 1240–1241, fn 8. (collecting cases holding that
plaintiff suing public entity must plead facts establishing compliance or
excuse from compliance with Government Tort Claims Act).)
Plaintiffs also fail to establish that their
retaliation claim falls under any exceptions in Section 905(c). “The limited
exceptions set forth in section 905 have, for the most part, been narrowly
construed.”  (Loehr v. Ventura County
Community College Dist. (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 1071, 1080.)  “[C]ommentators have construed the section
905 exceptions as essentially non-tortious claims for which some other adequate
claims procedure has already been devised, or for which the procedural
protection of the Tort Claims Act is believed to be unnecessary.”  (Gatto v. County of Sonoma (2002) 98
Cal.App.4th 744, 763 (finding Government Tort Claims Act and claim
filing requirement thereunder applied to Unruh Act claims thereby extending
limitations period.)  “Exceptions to the
filing requirement not specifically enumerated in the Government Claims Act
have occasionally been allowed, but only where the claim is based on a statute
or statutory scheme that includes a functionally equivalent claim process.”  (Id. at 765 (citing Snipes v. City
of Bakerfield (1983) 145 Cal.App.3d 861, 867.)  
Thus, in Snipes v. City of Bakersfield, the
Court of Appeals found the Government Tort Claims Act did not apply to FEHA
claims, because the Legislature implemented an extensive pre-litigation claims
process unique to FEHA claims and that process would achieve the same purpose
as the Government Tort Claims Act.  (Snipes,
supra, 145 Cal.App.3d at 867-869.) 
“The purposes of the general claims presentation requirement are to give
the governmental entity an opportunity to settle claims before suit is brought,
to permit early investigation of the facts, to facilitate fiscal planning for
potential liabilities, and to avoid similar liabilities in the future.  The provisions of the FEHA for filing of a
complaint with the department, administrative investigation, and service of the
complaint on the employer serve a similar function.”  (Snipes, supra, 145 Cal.App.3d
at 869.) 
Plaintiffs fail to cite any authority holding that Section
905(c) applies to retaliation claims under Section 1102.5.  The exceptions in Section 905(c) “relates
only to claims which are not based on contractual or tortious theories of
recovery.”  (California School
Employees Assn. v. Azusa Unified School Dist. (1984) 152 Cal.App.3d 580,
586.)  “[I]n a retaliation case, it is
the employer's adverse employment action that constitutes the substance of the
tort....” (Miklosy v. Regents of University of California (2008) 44
Cal.4th 876, 901, fn. 8.) 
A claim under Section 1102.5 includes civil penalties
and seeks damages because of the retaliation. 
Moreover, the requirements of the Tort Claims Act were applied in Le
Mere without objection based on Section 905(c). Finally, Plaintiff
Montenegro alleges that she was not allowed to return to work in retaliation
for her protected activities. 
Montenegro’s damages because of ABC School District’s retaliation would
therefore be for wages she was not allowed to earn, i.e. damages, as opposed to
recovery of earned but unpaid wages.   
Moreover, unlike in a FEHA claim, there is no administrative
process that Plaintiffs must satisfy prior to filing that would fulfill the purposes
of the general claims presentation requirement under the Tort Claims Act. As
discussed in Gatto and Snipes, the exceptions under Section 905(c)
have been reserved for “essentially non-tortious claims for which some other
adequate claims procedure has already been devised, or for which the procedural
protection of the Tort Claims Act is believed to be unnecessary,” and “only
where the claim is based on a statute or statutory scheme that includes a
functionally equivalent claim process.” (Gatto, supra, 98
Cal.App.4th at 763, 765.) 
Plaintiffs fail to demonstrate that a Section 1102.5 claim is subject a
“functionally equivalent claim process” to the Tort Claims Act.  
Even if Section 905(c) applied to the third cause of
action, Government Code §935 provides that claims exempted under Section 905(c)
are still subject to any claims presentation requirement adopted by the local
government entity. Here, ABC School District has adopted Board Policy 3320(a)
and Administrative Regulation 3320(a)-(b). 
(Defendant’s RJN, Ex. 3.)  The
statutory claims requirement scheme under the Government Tort Claims Act (Gov.
C. §905, et seq.) was fully incorporated into Administrative Regulation
3320(a)-(b) and claimants were required to present any claim for money or
damages to the Governing Board no later than either six months or one year
after accrual of the cause of action, depending on the nature of the
claim.  (Defendant’s RJN, Ex. 3.)  
As such, Plaintiffs were required to file a claim with
ABC School District for violation of Section 1102.5 prior to filing this
lawsuit. (Cal. School Employees Ass’n, supra, 152 Cal.App.3d at
586-587 (trial court finding that CSEA was not required to present claim
erroneous where District had enacted a board policy that mandated presentation).)  Again, Plaintiffs fail to allege that they
did so.  The general allegation of
compliance with all claims requirements fails to provide any facts establishing
compliance with the Tort Claims Act and attaches a copy of a DFEH right to sue
letter.  (FAC, ¶9.)
Plaintiffs also argue they substantially complied with
the claims presentation requirement based on the multiple complaints, studies
and other steps taken in response to their claims of unequal pay.  However, Plaintiffs do not allege any facts
that would support a finding of substantial compliance with the Tort Claims Act
as to the Section 1102.5 retaliation claim, which is separate and distinct from
their claims of unequal pay, nor do they establish that they can reasonably
cure this defect if leave to amend were granted.  Plaintiffs therefore fail to satisfy their
burden as the party seeking leave to amend. 
(Hendy v. Losse (1991) 54 Cal.3d 723, 742.)    
Finally, Plaintiffs fail to establish that they can
satisfy the claims presentation requirement with a document that can be deemed
a “claim as presented.”  “A document will
be deemed a ‘claim as presented’ ‘if it discloses the existence of a “claim”
which, if not satisfactorily resolved, will result in a lawsuit against the
entity.” (Alliance Financial v. City and County of San Francisco (1998)
64 Cal.App.4th 635, 643-644.)  Plaintiffs
again rely on the alleged series of documents, complaints and procedures they
undertook in connection with their allegations of gender-based pay
discrimination and demands for equal pay. 
Plaintiffs do not identify any documents that they could rely on to
establish a “claim as presented” for purposes of their retaliation claim under Section
1102.5.  
ABC School District therefore establishes that the
Tort Claims Act’s claims presentation requirement applies to Plaintiffs’ Section
1102.5 claim and that Plaintiffs have not pled compliance with the Tort Claims
Act as to that claim.  Plaintiffs fail to
establish that they are excused from compliance or that they can allege facts
establishing compliance or substantial compliance.  For these reasons, Defendant’s Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings of the Third Cause of Action for retaliation in
violation of Labor Code §1102.5 is GRANTED without leave to amend.
Conclusion
Defendant’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings to
the Third Cause of Action for Retaliation in Violation of Labor Code §1102.5 is
GRANTED without leave to amend.  