  Case Number:  23STCV01373    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT (LEED)
On January 20, 2023,
Plaintiffs Roberto E. Sotomayor and Patricia Bilgin filed this action alleging
Sotomayor developed mesothelioma as a result of exposure to asbestos-containing
products from Defendant Leed Plastics Corporation.  On October 27, 2023, Defendant filed a motion
for summary judgment.  
A defendant seeking
summary judgment must “conclusively negate[] a necessary element of the
plaintiff’s case, or . . . demonstrate[] that under no hypothesis is there a
material issue of fact that requires the process of trial.”  (Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 334.)  To show that a
plaintiff cannot establish an element of a cause of action, a defendant must
make the initial showing “that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot
reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.)  “The defendant may, but need not, present
evidence that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of
action.  The defendant may also present
evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence – as through admissions by the plaintiff following extensive
discovery to the effect that he has discovered nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855.)  A plaintiff’s deposition testimony that the
plaintiff has no knowledge of any exposure to the defendant’s products may be
sufficient to shift the burden to the plaintiff to demonstrate the existence of
triable issues of fact. (McGonnell v. Kaiser Gypsum Co., Inc. (2002) 98
Cal.App.4th 1098, 1103-1104.)  The
plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he did not recall ever working with a
product manufactured by the defendant may not be sufficient to shift the burden
if the plaintiff is able to prove his case by another means.  (Weber v. John Crane, Inc. (2006) 143
Cal.App.4th 1433, 1439.)  “ ‘If
plaintiffs respond to comprehensive interrogatories seeking all known facts
with boilerplate answers that restate their allegations, or simply provide
laundry lists of people and/or documents, the burden of production will almost
certainly be shifted to them once defendants move for summary judgment and
properly present plaintiff’s factually devoid discovery responses.’”  (Id. at p. 1440.)
Defendant contends
Plaintiffs have no evidence Sotomayor was exposed to asbestos from Defendant’s
products, citing Sotomayor’s deposition testimony.  (Motion at p. 12.)  Sotomayor did not recall hearing of “Leed
Plastics Corporation” before his deposition.  (Ex. 17 at p. 776.)  He bought most of the material for his
plastics machining business but did not know about any specific services,
contracts, writings, or invoices with respect to Defendant.  (Id. at pp. 778-779.)  He did not readily have documents relating to contracting
with Defendant.  (Id. at p. 779.)  He had no knowledge of asking Defendant to
fabricate a custom plastic product.  (Id.
at 782.)  Neither he, his brother, nor
his company, S&K Precision, were clients of Defendant.  (Id. at p. 783.)  He recalled seeing Defendant’s “different
kinds of plastics” products between the 1960s and 2014 with the Defendant’s
name glued to the plastic.  (Id.
at pp. 784-785.)  He thought he did work
on some kind of plastic with Leed.  (Id.
at p. 779.)
In response to an interrogatory
asking for all facts supporting exposure to asbestos from Defendant’s products,
Plaintiffs respond vaguely and without any specific evidence that Sotomayor was
exposed to asbestos from Defendant’s machining plastic parts, including plastic
molding compounds, phenolic molding compounds, and/or phenolic resin materials
such as Micarta.  (Ex. 13 at pp. 1-3.)  Plaintiffs identified Sotomayor and
Defendant’s manager, officers, directors, corporate designees and/or agents” as
individuals with knowledge of facts and information supporting Plaintiffs’ claims.
 (Id. at pp. 4-5.)  In response to requests for production of documents
supporting exposure to asbestos from Defendant’s products, Plaintiffs generally
identified Sotomayor’s interrogatory responses, deposition testimony, and employment
and medical records.  (Defendant’s Index,
Ex. 15 at pp. 1-2.)
While these responses
could support the conclusion that Defendant worked with plastic from Defendant,
they do not contain evidence that Defendant’s plastic supplied to Sotomayor contained
asbestos.  Defendant submitted evidence
that it did not make plastic parts containing asbestos.  (Kendrick Decl., ¶ 4.)  Defendant has shown that Plaintiffs do not
have evidence that Sotomayor used asbestos-containing products from Defendant,
and thus shifted the burden. 
In their December 29,
2023 opposition, Plaintiffs contended without evidence that Defendant supplied
Micarta brand asbestos-containing plastic to Sotomayor.  (Opposition at p. 5.)  Plaintiffs asked for the hearing to be
continued so they could take the deposition of Defendant, apparently to show
that Defendant sold asbestos-containing plastic to Plaintiff’s employer.  With their opposition, Plaintiffs filed a
notice for the deposition of Defendant dated December 29, 2023.  (Steward Decl., Ex. 2 at p. 27.)  At the January 12, 2024 hearing, the court
continued the hearing to February 6, 2024 to allow the deposition to go forward.  Thereafter, the parties filed supplemental
briefs.  
On January 24, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed a supplemental brief stating that the defense witness did not do an
adequate search of documents, Plaintiffs will file a motion to compel the
production of further documents and a further deposition of Defendant, Plaintiffs
will be subpoenaing a third party, and therefore the hearing on this motion
must be continued yet again.  That
argument has no merit for several reasons.
First, the preference trial
is in seven days.  Plaintiffs do not
explain how they plan to conduct all of this discovery, file yet an additional opposition,
and have this motion heard in the next seven days.  And the fact discovery cutoff was on December
22, 2024.  Therefore all of this
additional planned discovery cannot take place without Plaintiffs first moving
to reopen discovery, which Plaintiffs have not done.  
Second, Plaintiffs did
not show good cause for not taking Defendant’s deposition until January 19,
2024, almost three months after being served with Defendant’s motion on October
27, 2023.  Upon being served with the
motion, Plaintiffs knew that the issue of asbestos in Micarta was key.  Yet, Plaintiffs waited two months, until the
day their opposition was due on December 29, 2003, to serve a deposition notice
on Defendant.  Plaintiffs provided no
valid excuse for not serving a notice of deposition immediately after receiving
the motion on October 27, 2023.  Rather
Plaintiffs’ delay shows a lack of diligence in pursuing the discovery that
Plaintiffs claim is critical to oppose the motion.  Plaintiffs chose to litigate this case as a
preference case.  That means that
Plaintiffs have the obligation to pursue discovery expeditiously and
diligently.  Plaintiffs’ lack of
diligence is not grounds to continue a preference trial date.  
Third, Plaintiffs’
argument that Defendant failed to conduct an adequate search is not
well-founded.  Defendant’s representative
testified that Defendant ceased to exist in 2002 and was sold to
PlastiFab.  (Supp. Stewart Decl., Ex. 1
at p. 16.)  PlastiFab acquired all of Defendant’s
documents and equipment.  (Id. at
pp. 17, 26-27.)  The witness has no idea
if any of the pre-2002 documents from Defendant still exist at PlastiFab.  (Id. at p. 26.)  He looked in his house for documents from
Defendant and found some documents about the termination of the company and a
document about asbestos and cancer.  (Id.
at pp. 42-47.)
Plaintiffs contend that
Defendant should have called up PlastiFab and required that third party to
conduct a search of its documents. 
(Supp. Opposition at p. 5.)  Plaintiffs
cite no law that a party responding to a request for documents must search for documents
in the possession, custody, or control of a third party.  Indeed, the law is to the contrary.  Code of Civil Procedure requires a party to
search for and produce documents “that are in the possession, custody, or
control” of the responding party.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.220.)  Plaintiffs did
not show that Defendant controls currently PlastiFab, even though Defendant
ceased to exist twenty-two years ago. 
Plaintiffs did not show that the witness or Defendant has any control
over PlastiFab, or any relationship at all with PlastiFab apart from knowing
one employee at PlastiFab.  Defendant and
the witness had no obligation to try to go through PlastiFab’s files.
In sum, Plaintiffs
request to continue the hearing on the motion again and/or to continue the
trial date is denied.
Plaintiffs’ supplemental
filings did not include any evidence that Defendant supplied
asbestos-containing plastic to Roberto Sotomayor or his employer.  The defense witness testified that Defendant
was an approved distributor of Micarta, and Defendant purchased Micarta from
Westinghouse.  (Supp. Steward Decl., Ex.
1 at pp. 21, 23, 36.)  Other than that,
Plaintiffs’ supplemental papers provided no additional information about
Micarta or asbestos-containing materials from Defendant.  Therefore, Plaintiffs did not show the
existence of a material disputed issue.
The motion for summary
judgment is GRANTED.  Defendant is to
file a proposed judgment within five days.
The moving party is to
give notice. 