 Case Number:  24STCV01638    Hearing Date:   March 28, 2024    Dept:  34 SUBJECT:        Special
Motion to Strike Complaint
 
Moving Party: Defendant Faith Ballin
Resp. Party:    Plaintiffs Melissa Bacelar, Wagmor Pets, and
Wylder’s Holistic Pet Center, Inc.
 
 
SUBJECT:        Motion for
Undertaking
 
Moving Party: Defendant Faith Ballin
Resp. Party:    None
 
 
Defendant Faith Ballin’s Anti-SLAPP Motion is
GRANTED. Defendant Faith Ballin is dismissed with prejudice from the Verified
Complaint. 
 
Plaintiffs’ Request for Sanctions is DENIED. 
 
The Motion for Undertaking is DENIED. 
 
 
PRELIMINARY COMMENT:
 
        Defendant Faith Ballin filed this anti-SLAPP motion, asking that the entire
complaint be stricken.  (See Motion, p. 2:6.)  As indicated below, Defendant Ballin prevails
on her anti-SLAPP motion, and hence must be stricken as a defendant.  However, there are other Defendants in this
lawsuit, and they have not joined in this anti-SLAPP motion.  Therefore, the Court will not strike the
entire complaint as to all Defendants.    
 
 
BACKGROUND:
 
On January
22, 2024, Plaintiffs Melissa Bacelar, Wagmor Pets, and Wylder’s Holistic Pet
Center, Inc. filed their Verified Complaint against Defendants Kim Sill,
Shelter Hope Pet Shop, Inc., Matt Friedman, and Faith Ballin on a single cause
of action for defamation. 
 
On February
27, 2024, Plaintiffs amended their Complaint to substitute Doe 1 with Shelter
Hope Enterprises, Inc.
 
On February
28, 2024, Defendant Faith Ballin (“Defendant”) filed her Special Motion to
Strike Complaint (“Anti-SLAPP Motion”). In support of her Anti-SLAPP Motion,
Defendant concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Kyla Dayton; (2) Declaration
of Faith Ballin; and (3) Proposed Order. 
 
On February
28, 2024, Defendant filed Motion for Undertaking. In support of her Motion for
Undertaking, Defendant concurrently filed: (1) Declaration of Faith Ballin; and
(2) Proposed Order. 
 
On March 15,
2024, Plaintiffs filed their Opposition to Special Motion to Strike Complaint
(“Opposition”). The Opposition includes a Request for Sanctions. 
 
On March 18,
2024, Plaintiffs filed Declaration of Christine Lagrua. 
 
On March 21,
2024, Defendant filed Reply in Support of Special Motion to Strike (“Reply”).
Defendant concurrently filed: (1) Evidentiary Objections; and (2) Order on
Evidentiary Objections. 
 
On March 21,
2024, Defendant filed her Notice of Non-Opposition regarding the Motion for Undertaking.
 
Plaintiffs
have not filed an opposition or other response to the Motion for Undertaking. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.         
Anti-SLAPP Motion
 
A.      Evidentiary
Objections
 
Defendant filed evidentiary objections to
Plaintiffs’ evidence. The following are the Court’s rulings on these
objections. 
 




Objection


 


 




1


SUSTAINED


 




2


SUSTAINED


 




 
 
B.      Legal
Standard
 
“A cause of action against a person arising from any act of that
person in furtherance of the person’s right of petition or free speech under
the United States Constitution or the California Constitution in connection
with a public issue shall be subject to a special motion to strike, unless the
court determines that the plaintiff has established that there is a probability
that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16,
subd. (b)(1).)
 
“In making its determination, the court shall consider the
pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which
the liability or defense is based.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (b)(2).)
 
“A SLAPP suit—a strategic lawsuit against public
participation—seeks to chill or punish a party's exercise of constitutional
rights to free speech and to petition the government for redress of grievances.
The Legislature enacted Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16—known as the
anti-SLAPP statute—to provide a procedural remedy to dispose of lawsuits that
are brought to chill the valid exercise of constitutional rights.” (Rusheen
v. Cohen (2006) 37 Cal.4th 1048, 1055–56, citations omitted.)
 
“In light of the
foregoing, we may summarize a court's task
in ruling on an anti-SLAPP motion to strike as follows. Section 425.16,
subdivision (b)(1) requires the court to engage in a two-step process. First,
the court decides whether the defendant has made a threshold showing that the
challenged cause of action is one arising from protected activity. The moving
defendant's burden is to demonstrate that the act or acts of which the
plaintiff complains were taken ‘in furtherance of the [defendant]'s right of
petition or free speech under the United States or California Constitution in
connection with a public issue,’ as defined in the statute. (§ 425.16, subd.
(b)(1).) If the court finds such a showing has been made, it then determines
whether the plaintiff has demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim.
Under section 425.16, subdivision (b)(2), the trial court in making these
determinations considers ‘the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits
stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based.’” (Equilon
Enters. v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67.)
 
“Only a cause of action that satisfies both prongs of the
anti-SLAPP statute—i.e., that arises from protected speech or petitioning and lacks even minimal merit—is a SLAPP, subject to
being stricken under the statute.” (Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29
Cal.4th 82, 88­–89, emphases in original.)
 
C.      Discussion
 
1.      The
Parties’ Arguments
 
Defendant moves the Court to strike and
dismiss Plaintiffs’ Verified Complaint in its entirety. (Anti-SLAPP Motion, p.
16:13–14.)
 
        Defendant argues: (1) that
the alleged statements satisfy prong one as they were made in a place open to
the public in connection with an issue of public interest; (2) that the Court
should find that Plaintiffs cannot meet their burden of proving a probability
of prevailing; and (3) that Plaintiffs cannot meet their prong two evidentiary
burden because Defendant is not responsible for the misconduct alleged.
(Anti-SLAPP Motion, pp. 8:4–6, 10:17–20, 15:17–19.)
 
        Plaintiffs disagree,
arguing: (1) that the Anti-SLAPP Motion does not address the actual allegations
of the Verified Complaint; (2) that the allegations of the Verified Complaint
are true; and (3) that the Anti-SLAPP Motion does not succeed on both steps of
the analysis. (Opposition, pp. 4:4–5, 6:1, 6:15.)
 
        In her Reply, Defendant
argues: (1) that on prong one, the online statements and statements that were
caused to be made online are protected activities; (2) that on prong one, the
private conversation is protected activity subject to the statute’s catch-all
provision; and (3) that on prong two, Plaintiffs do not demonstrate a probability
that Defendant is liable for defamation. (Reply, pp. 3:5–7, 5:17–18, 7:12–13.)
 
2.      The
First Prong
 
a.  
    Legal Standard
 
“The defendant's first-step burden is to identify the
activity each challenged claim rests on and demonstrate that that activity is
protected by the anti-SLAPP statute. A claim may be struck only if the speech
or petitioning activity itself is the wrong complained of, and not just evidence of
liability or a step leading to some different act for which liability is
asserted. To determine whether a claim arises from protected activity, courts
must consider the elements of the challenged claim and what actions by the
defendant supply those elements and consequently form the basis for liability. Courts then must evaluate
whether the defendant has shown any of these actions fall within one or more of
the four categories of acts protected by the anti-SLAPP statute.” (Wilson v.
Cable News Network, Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 871, 884 [cleaned up], emphasis
in original.)
 
“As used in this
section, ‘act in furtherance of a person’s right of petition or free speech
under the United States or California Constitution in connection with a public
issue’ includes: (1) any written or oral statement or writing made before a
legislative, executive, or judicial proceeding, or any other official
proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written or oral statement or writing made
in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a legislative,
executive, or judicial body, or any other official proceeding authorized by
law, (3) any written or oral statement or writing made in a place open to the
public or a public forum in connection with an issue of public interest, or (4)
any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of
petition or the constitutional right of free speech in connection with a public
issue or an issue of public interest.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd. (e).)
 
“An act is in
furtherance of the right of free speech if the act helps to advance that right
or assists in the exercise of that right.” (Tamkin v. CBS Broad., Inc. (2011)
193 Cal.App.4th 133, 143, citation omitted.)
 
There is “a
two-step inquiry for deciding whether the activity from which a lawsuit arises
falls within section 425.16(e)(4)'s protection: first, we ask what
public issue or issues the challenged activity implicates, and second, we ask
whether the challenged activity contributes to public discussion of any such
issue. If the answer to the second question is yes, then the protections of the
anti-SLAPP statute are triggered, and the plaintiff in the underlying lawsuit
must establish ‘a probability’ of prevailing before the action may proceed.” (Geiser
v. Kuhns (2022) 13 Cal.5th 1238, 1243, citing FilmOn.com Inc. v.
DoubleVerify Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 133, 149–150; Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16,
subd. (b).)
 
“At this stage,
the question is only whether a defendant has made out a prima facie case that
activity underlying a plaintiff's claims is statutorily protected, not whether
it has shown its acts are ultimately lawful. . . . Consistent with this
understanding, at the first step of the anti-SLAPP analysis, we routinely have
examined the conduct of defendants without relying on whatever improper motive
the plaintiff alleged.” (Wilson, supra, 7 Cal.5th at p. 888,
citations omitted.)
 
b.       Discussion
 
The following is
the alleged conduct by Defendant at issue:
 
·       engaging in a campaign to defame
Plaintiffs by employing websites located at:
 
o  
thetruthaboutwagmorpets.com;
o  
shelterhopepetshop.org;
o  
@thetruthaboutwagmorpets.com
(on Instagram);
o  
@shelterhopepetshop (on
Instagram);
 
·       contacting a 13-year-old Instagram
influencer;
 
·       telling lies about Plaintiffs to the
13-year-old, including:
 
o  
that Plaintiffs were
stalking him in a white Mercedes;
o  
that Plaintiffs were
sending him abusive emails;
o  
that Plaintiffs were
making death threats against the child;
o  
that Defendants had
researched the matter and traced all the IP addresses to Plaintiffs;
 
·       coaching the 13-year-old to make
posts on Instagram and other places, in part by repeating these same lies; and
 
·       having the 13-year-old make posts on
Instagram and other places that accused Plaintiffs of stalking him, making
death threats, and engaging in other illegal activities.
 
(Verified Complaint, ¶¶ 10–12.)
 
“Analysis of an anti-SLAPP motion is not confined to evaluating
whether an entire cause of action, as pleaded by the plaintiff, arises from
protected activity or has merit. Instead, courts should analyze each claim for
relief — each act or set of acts supplying a basis for relief, of which there
may be several in a single pleaded cause of action —  determine whether the acts are protected and,
if so, whether the claim they give rise to has the requisite degree of merit to
survive the motion.” (Bonni v. St. Joseph Health Sys. (2021) 11 Cal.5th
995, 1010, citation omitted.)
 
On the first step, “the moving
defendant must identify the acts alleged in the complaint that it asserts are
protected and what claims for relief are predicated on them. In turn, a court
should examine whether those acts are protected and supply the basis for any
claims. It does not matter that other unprotected acts
may also have been alleged within what has been labeled a single cause of
action; these are disregarded at this stage. So long as a court determines that
relief is sought based on allegations arising from activity protected by the
statute, the second step is reached with respect to these claims.” (Bonni, supra, at p. 1010,
quotation and internal quotation marks omitted.)
 
“If a cause of
action contains multiple claims and a moving party fails to identify how the
speech or conduct underlying some of those claims is protected activity, it
will not carry its first-step burden as to those claims. The nonmovant is not
faced with the burden of having to
make the moving party's case for it.” (Bonni, supra, at p. 1011.)
 
“We are also mindful that, although not every defamation case is
subject to the anti-SLAPP statute, defamation claims necessarily involve speech
and are therefore more commonly found to be SLAPPs.” (Laker v. Bd. of
Trustees of Cal. State Univ. (2019) 32 Cal.App.5th 745, 768, citation
omitted.)
 
Here, all of the alleged activity — creating websites and web
accounts, speaking with other people, and encouraging other people to speak and
make posts on the Internet — are all core activities protected by the right of
free speech.
 
Furthermore, all of the alleged activity appear to have been
undertaken in connection with a public issue:
 
·      
the
alleged activity involving the use of websites included public discussion of
pet stores, policies of pet stores as it relates to dog breeders, policies of
pet stores as it relates to vaccination of those pets, and so on;
 
·      
the
alleged activity involving the contact and coaching of an Instagram influencer
(regardless of their age) for the purpose of getting that influencer to make
posts that touch on these same issues (even if the contact and coaching also
discussed non-public issues, such as stalking and death threats);
 
·      
the
alleged activity of having that influence post about these same issues (even if
those posts also discussed non-public issues, such as stalking and death
threats). 
 
Therefore, Defendant has met her burden on the first prong by
showing that the alleged activity involves free speech and that such speech
contributed to public discussion of various pet-related issues of public
importance. 
 
3.      The
Second Prong
 
The Court considers each cause of action when
analyzing whether Plaintiffs have met their burden to demonstrate a probability
of prevailing. (Bonni v. St. Joseph Health Sys. (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995,
1010.)
 
a.  
    Legal Standard for Defamation
“Defamation is effected by either of
the following: (a) Libel. (b) Slander.” (Civ. Code, § 44.)
“Libel is a false and unprivileged publication by writing,
printing, picture, effigy, or other fixed representation to the eye, which
exposes any person to hatred, contempt, ridicule, or obloquy, or which causes
him to be shunned or avoided, or which has a tendency to injure him in his
occupation.” (Civ. Code, § 45.)
“A libel which is defamatory of the plaintiff without the
necessity of explanatory matter, such as an inducement, innuendo or other
extrinsic fact, is said to be a libel on its face. Defamatory language not
libelous on its face is not actionable unless the plaintiff alleges and proves
that he has suffered special damage as a proximate result thereof. Special
damage is defined in Section 48a of this code.” (Civ. Code, § 45a.)
 
“Slander is a false and unprivileged
publication, orally uttered, and also communications by radio or any mechanical
or other means which:
“1. Charges any person with crime, or with
having been indicted, convicted, or punished for crime;
 
“2. Imputes in him the present existence of
an infectious, contagious, or loathsome disease;
 
“3. Tends directly to injure him in respect
to his office, profession, trade or business, either by imputing to him general
disqualification in those respects which the office or other occupation
peculiarly requires, or by imputing something with reference to his office,
profession, trade, or business that has a natural tendency to lessen its
profits;
 
“4. Imputes to him impotence or a want of
chastity; or
 
“5. Which, by natural consequence, causes
actual damage.”
(Civ. Code, § 46.)
“‘The sine
qua non of recovery for defamation . . . is the existence of falsehood.’
Because the statement must contain a provable falsehood, courts distinguish
between statements of fact and statements of opinion¿for purposes of defamation
liability.¿Although statements of fact may be actionable as libel, statements
of opinion are constitutionally protected.” (McGarry v. Univ. of San Diego (2007)
154 Cla.App.4th 97, 112, quoting Letter Carriers v. Austin (1974) 418
U.S. 264, 283.)
 
“[T]he question is not strictly whether the published statement is fact or
opinion. Rather, the dispositive question is whether a reasonable fact finder
could conclude the published statement declares or implies a provably false
assertion of fact.” (Franklin v. Dynamic Details, Inc. (2004) 116
Cal.App.4th 375, 385, citations omitted.)
 
“Whether a statement declares or
implies a provable false assertion of fact is a question of law for the court
to decide, unless the statement is susceptible of both an innocent and a
libelous meaning, in which case the jury must decide how the statement was
understood.” (Franklin, supra, at p. 385, citations omitted.)
 
“To determine whether a statement is
actionable fact or nonactionable opinion, we apply a totality of the
circumstances test pursuant to which we consider both the language of the
statement itself and the context in which it is made.” (Summit Bank v.
Rogers (2012) 206 Cal.App.4th 669, 696, citation omitted.)
 
“In
an action for defamation per se, the meaning is so clear from the face of the
statement that the damages can be presumed. However, that presumption does not mean [a plaintiff] does
not anticipate injury; nor does it mean there is no injury.” (Tilkey v.
Allstate Ins. Co. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 521, 542, citation omitted.)
 
“Defamation
requires both falsity and injury to reputation; the defamation per se analysis
focuses on the latter, and even if context is necessary to show falsity it
might not be needed for reputational harm. But a harmful meaning must still be
clear to constitute defamation per se.” (Balla v. Hall (2021) 59
Cal.App.5th 652, 690, citations omitted.)
 
b.  
    Discussion
 
The Parties have submitted very little
evidence to the Court regarding the claims at issue. 
 
i.           
Defendant’s Evidence
 
Defendant submits screenshots of the various
websites and Instagram accounts at issue. (Decl. Dayton, Exhs. 1–4.) Whether or
not this material is authenticated, most of the relevant portions are
inadmissible hearsay. 
 
The first website, thetruthaboutwagmorpets.com,
clearly and repeatedly discusses Plaintiffs’ business and business practices,
has various documents (including what appear to be a negative review, filings
from other cases, screenshots from text messages), makes allegations about
Plaintiffs and their business practices. The associated Instagram account also
has posts that are directly about Plaintiffs and their business. (Decl. Dayton,
Exhs. 1, 3.)
 
The second website, shelterhopepetshop.com,
does not appear to have any discussion of Plaintiffs. The associated Instagram
account also does not appear to have any discussion of Plaintiffs. (Decl.
Dayton, Exhs. 2, 4.)
 
Defendant also submits a Google News search
of the phrase “Wagmor pets,” which brings up various links. (Decl. Dayton, Exh.
5.)
 
Finally, among other things, Defendant
declares: (1) that she does not own or control the websites or the Instagram
accounts; (2) that she did not contact a 13-year-old Instagram influencer about
Plaintiffs; (3) that she did not speak with a minor about Plaintiffs; (4) that
she did not encourage a minor to make posts about Plaintiffs; and (5) that
Defendant is concerned about Plaintiffs’ alleged mistreatment of animals.
(Decl. Ballin, ¶¶ 4–5, 7.)
 
ii.         
Plaintiffs’ Evidence
 
Plaintiffs submits: (1) screenshots of what
appears to be either a comments thread or a direct message; (2) a post from the
Instagram account for @thetruthaboutwagmorpets; and (3) a newsletter post from
the “Shelter Hope Pet Shop Weekly Newsletter.” None of this material is
authenticated and most of the relevant portions are inadmissible hearsay. (See Opposition,
Exhs. 1–3.)
 
Plaintiffs also submit: (1) Declaration of
Christine Lagrua; and (2) Declaration of Melissa Bacelar. 
 
Much of the Declaration of Christine Lagrua consists
of inadmissible hearsay. (See Opposition, Decl. Lagrua, ¶¶ 3–8.) Furthermore,
the Declaration of Christine Lagrua lacks credibility because it claims phone
calls (with no phone records) and images (with no copies of those images). (Id.
at ¶¶ 5, 8.)  Lastly, although the
Court is not basing its decision on this matter, it is not clear that the Lagrua
Declaration is actually signed; the copy attached to the Opposition is
unsigned, and the separate copy filed with Court apparently as only a typed
signature. 
 
The Declaration of Melissa Bacelar has only one
substantive paragraph.  Bacelar declares
that she “never made any threats against the Minor, nor have I stalked him or
followed him. I do not believe anyone associated with Wagmor Pets or Wyler’s
Holistic Pet Center, Inc. did either of those things. I cannot imagine why they
would do so.” (Decl. Bacelar, ¶ 2.) 
 
iii.        
Plaintiffs Fail on the Second Prong
 
The question on the second prong is whether
Plaintiffs have demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim. (Equilon
Enters., supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 67.) 
 
Plaintiffs have not made that showing here. 
 
Plaintiffs have not provided any admissible
evidence that would indicate Defendant owns or controls the websites and
associated Instagram accounts at issue. Rather, Defendant declares the
opposite, and the Court finds her testimony to be credible. 
 
Plaintiffs have not provided any admissible
evidence that would indicate Defendant had any contact with a 13-year-old
Instagram influencer. Rather, Defendant declares the opposite, and the Court
finds her testimony to be credible. 
 
 Plaintiffs have not provided any admissible
evidence that would indicate Defendant coached anyone to make posts about
Plaintiffs or that Defendant made anyone make posts about Plaintiffs. Rather,
Defendant declares the opposite, and the Court finds her testimony to be
credible. 
 
Plaintiffs have provided
evidence that they did not stalk a minor, make death threats, and so on. But that
is insufficient for a cause of action of defamation when there is no evidence
before the Court that Defendant made such claims or was involved in any way
with the making of such claims. 
 
The Court GRANTS the
Anti-SLAPP Motion. 
 
4.      Sanctions
 
Plaintiffs argue that the Anti-SLAPP Motion
is frivolous and request sanctions. (Opposition, pp. 2:18–20, 7:13–18.)
 
Because the Anti-SLAPP Motion has been
granted, there is no basis to award Plaintiffs monetary sanctions.
 
The Court DENIES Plaintiffs’ Request for
Sanctions. 
 
D.      Conclusion
 
Defendant Faith Ballin’s Anti-SLAPP Motion is
GRANTED. Defendant Faith Ballin is dismissed with prejudice from the Verified
Complaint. 
 
Plaintiffs’ Request for Sanctions is DENIED. 
 
 
II.      
Motion for
Undertaking
 
A.      Legal
Standard
 
“When the plaintiff
in an action or special proceeding resides out of the state, or is a foreign
corporation, the defendant may at any time apply to the court by noticed motion
for an order requiring the plaintiff to file an undertaking to secure an award of
costs and attorney’s fees which may be awarded in the action or special
proceeding. For the purposes of this section, ‘attorney’s fees’ means
reasonable attorney’s fees a party may be authorized to recover by a statute
apart from this section or by contract.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030, subd. (a).)
 
“The motion shall be
made on the grounds that the plaintiff resides out of the state or is a foreign
corporation and that there is a reasonable possibility that the moving
defendant will obtain judgment in the action or special proceeding. The motion
shall be accompanied by an affidavit in support of the grounds for the motion
and by a memorandum of points and authorities. The affidavit shall set forth
the nature and amount of the costs and attorney’s fees the defendant has
incurred and expects to incur by the conclusion of the action or special
proceeding.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1030, subd. (b).)
 
“If the court, after
hearing, determines that the grounds for the motion have been established, the
court shall order that the plaintiff file the undertaking in an amount
specified in the court’s order as security for costs and attorney’s fees.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1030, subd. (c).)
 
“Even if the
defendant establishes the grounds for an undertaking, the trial court may waive
the requirement if the plaintiff establishes indigency.” (Alshafie v.
Lallande (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 421, 429, citing Code Civ. Proc., § 995.240
and Baltayan v. Estate of Getemyan (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 1427, 1433.)
“In the first instance the party seeking relief from the requirement of posting
a bond or undertaking has the burden of proof to show entitlement to such
relief.” (Id. at p. 432, quoting Williams v. Freedomcard, Inc. (2004)
123 Cal.App.4th 609, 614, internal quotation marks and additional citation
omitted.)
 
B.      Discussion
 
Defendant moves the Court to require
Plaintiff Wylder’s Holistic Pet Center, Inc. to post a bond in the amount of
$50,000.00. (Motion for Undertaking, p. 15:14–18.) Defendant argues that this
undertaking is necessary because (1) there is a reasonable possibility
Defendant will be entitled to costs and fees by prevailing in her anti-SLAPP
Motion and (2) Plaintiff Wylder’s Holistic Pet Center, Inc. is a Delaware
corporation. (Id. at pp. 14:24–15:5.)
 
Plaintiffs do not oppose or otherwise respond
to the Motion for Undertaking. 
 
The Court does not find that an undertaking
is appropriate or necessary here. The phrase “resides out of the state or is a
foreign corporation” indicates that “foreign” means out of the country.
Moreover, given that Plaintiff Wylder’s Holistic Pet Center, Inc. appears to
operate out of Los Angeles, it would be odd to find that reside out of the
state. In any case, Defendant Ballin has already prevailed on her anti-SLAPP
motion and may immediately move for costs and fees, obviating the immediate
need for a bond. 
 
C.      Conclusion
 
The Motion for Undertaking is DENIED. 
 
 
 