 Case Number:  23CMCV01424    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  A 
23CMCV01424 Christian Garza, et al. v. Tesla, Inc., et al.
Tuesday,
 February 6,  2024, at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING
MOTION
 BY DEFENDANT, CAMERON DAYNE, TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLAINT
 
I.       
BACKGROUND
       The complaint
alleges Plaintiffs were injured when Defendant, Cameron Dayne (“Dayne”), while
in the course and scope of employment with Fifth Third Bank, National
Association, crashed into Plaintiffs’ vehicle. Another driver, Oswaldo Lopez
(“Lopez”) was allegedly driving his vehicle while intoxicated. Plaintiff,
Christian Garza, sustained injury requiring double, amputation above the
knee.  
       Plaintiffs
also assert product liability claims against Defendant, Tesla Inc., for
defective design and manufacture of the Tesla Model 3, which allegedly malfunctioned.

II.      ARGUMENTS
       Defendant Dayne moves to
strike the claim for punitive damages on grounds Plaintiffs have not alleged facts
showing that Dayne acted with malice, fraud, or oppression to warrant recovery
of such damages. 
       In opposition, Plaintiffs admit
that it was Lopez who allegedly operated his vehicle while under the influence
of alcohol in violation of the Vehicle Code which may constitute an act of
malice. Plaintiffs do not object to striking the prayer for punitive damages
against Dayne only, but it should not be stricken as alleged against other
Defendants who have not joined in this motion. Plaintiffs request leave to
amend if the Court intends to strike the complaint without limitation. 
       In reply, Dayne argues that
the Court should grant the motion as to Defendant Dayne.
III.    LEGAL
STANDARDS
       The court may, upon motion
or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out
any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2)
strike out all or any part of the pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the Court. Code Civ. Proc., § 436 subd (a)-(b). Grounds for the motion to strike are
limited to matters that appear on the face of the pleading or on any matter
which the court shall or may take judicial notice. Code Civ. Proc., § 437.
IV.   
DISCUSSION
       Defense counsel complied
with the statutory obligation to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel prior
to filing the motion to strike. (Matthew Jones Declaration; Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5.) Plaintiffs may recover exemplary damages if
Plaintiffs establish “by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has
been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” (Civ. Code, § 3294 subd. (a).) The predicate acts to support a claim for
punitive damages must be intended to cause injury or must constitute
“malicious” or “oppressive” conduct as defined by statute. Absent an intent to
injure the plaintiff, the conduct must be “despicable” which is defined as
“base, vile, or contemptible.” (College Hospital Inc. at 725.) 
       The
Judicial Council form complaint does not include an exemplary damages
attachment asserting facts to support the claim for punitive damages against any
Defendant. Plaintiffs allege a cause of action for negligence only against
Dayne. Negligence, gross negligence, or reckless conduct is insufficient to
support a claim for punitive damages. (Dawes
v. Superior Court (1980) 111
Cal.App.3d 82, 87.) 
       Plaintiffs
allege that Defendant, Oswaldo Lopez, operated the vehicle in an unsafe manner
while under the influence of alcohol. Driving while intoxicated can constitute
“malice” if done under circumstances from which the jury can infer that the
driver acted with a conscious disregard of the probable dangerous consequences.
(Taylor
v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d
890, 896-897 [“One who willfully
consumes alcoholic beverages to the point of intoxication, knowing that he
thereafter must operate a motor vehicle, thereby combining sharply impaired
physical and mental faculties with a vehicle capable of great force and speed,
reasonably may be held to exhibit a conscious disregard of the safety of
others. The effect may be lethal whether or not the driver had a prior history
of drunk driving incidents.”].)
       Plaintiffs
do not allege any facts against Dayne concerning driving under the influence of
alcohol. 
V.     
COCONCLUSION
       Based
on the foregoing, the motion to strike is GRANTED. The prayer for punitive
damages alleged against Dayne only is stricken without leave to amend as
Plaintiffs do not oppose the motion as it applies to Defendant Dayne. 
 