 Case Number:  22STCV19601    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
AREXY RIOS,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
CALIFORNIA EYE SPECIALISTS MEDICAL
  GROUP, INC., et al., 
                        
                       Defendants. 


 
  Case No.:  22STCV19601
  Hearing Date:  October 30, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motions to compel further
  responses to requests for production 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On June 15, 2022, Plaintiff filed
this employment discrimination action against Defendants California Eye Specialists
Medical Group, Inc.; California Eye Care, Managed Eye Care Specialist, A Medical
Group, Inc.; and California Eye Management Services, LP. Plaintiff alleges
discrimination based on her pregnancy and various wage violations.  
            On September 19, 2023, Plaintiff
filed the instant three motions to compel further responses from each of the
Defendants as to Requests for Production Set One. Defendants filed their
oppositions on October 17, 2023. Plaintiff filed replies on October 20, 2023.
LEGAL STANDARD
“On receipt of a response to a demand for
inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the demanding party may move for an
order compelling further response to the demand if the demanding party deems
that any of the following apply: (1) A statement of compliance with the demand
is incomplete. (2) A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive. (3) An objection in the response is without merit or
too general.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(a).) 
MEET AND CONFER
            A motion to compel further must be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration demonstrating an attempt to
resolve the matter informally. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(b).) The Court
finds that Plaintiff has satisfied the meet and confer requirement. (See
Roshanian Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
The Discovery Requests at Issue 
a. RFP No. 3
            RFP No. 3 requests all non-privileged
communications between Defendants and any person (other than defense counsel)
concerning the claims alleged in the complaint. Defendants objected that the
request is vague, overly burdensome, and lacks foundation. In opposition,
Defendants argue that the request is vague because it is unclear what claims
are alleged in the complaint. Defendants further argue that “communications”
may be construed broadly and lead to undue burden. 
            Defendants’ objections are without
merit. Defendants have access to Plaintiff’s complaint and are fully aware of
what claims are alleged. Therefore, the request is not vague. The request is
not overbroad or unduly burdensome because it is limited to non-privileged
communications concerning the claims at issue. A further response is required.   
b. RFP Nos. 12-13
            RFP Nos. 12 and 13 request all text
and email messages sent and received to third parties concerning Plaintiff. Defendants
objected that the request is vague and burdensome, unlimited as to time, and
assumes facts not in evidence. Defendants argue that there is no evidence
Defendants communicated with third parties about Plaintiff.  
            The request is sufficiently clear to
warrant a response. The request is properly limited to texts or emails about
Plaintiff. Plaintiff is not required to separately prove the existence of
responsive documents before Defendants are required to respond. To the extent
Defendants are unaware of or do not have access to any responsive texts or
emails, Defendants must provide a code-compliant statement of inability to
comply. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320.) A further response is required.
c. RFP No. 23 
            RFP No. 23 requests all documents
reflecting any complaints, grievances, or reports by Defendants’ employees
regarding harassment during the relevant time period. Defendants objected that
the request is vague, overbroad, and burdensome, requires Defendants to make a
legal conclusion, and is irrelevant to the extent it seeks information from the
Defendants that did not employ Plaintiff. In opposition, Defendants argue that
the request is overbroad because it would require a wholesale interrogation of
every employee. Defendants further argue that they are not aware of any
harassment in the workplace and therefore cannot comply with the demand. 
            The response is sufficiently clear
to warrant a response. The phrase “complaints, grievances, or reports,” and the
term “harassment,” are not vague as Defendants contend in their objections. Defendants
do not explain how the request forces them to make a legal conclusion. The
request does not require an interrogation of every employee, because it seeks existing
documents regarding harassment complaints. Defendants are not being asked to
generate new reports by asking every employee about harassment. To the extent
Defendants cannot comply with the request, the response must be code-compliant.
(See Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.320.) A further response is required. 
II.
Sanctions
            Defendants’ opposition provides no
substantial justification for their boilerplate objections and non-compliant
responses. Even if Defendants serve supplemental responses prior the hearing on
this motion, it is clear that Defendants were unwilling to serve proper
responses until faced with a motion. Notably, Defendants requested multiple extensions,
promising to provide supplemental responses, only to now stand on their original
objections. (See Roshanian Decl. ¶¶ 7-14.) If Defendants believed that their objections
were proper in the first place, there was no need to ask for extensions to provide
supplemental responses. This appears to be a delay tactic.   
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motions to compel
further responses are GRANTED. Defendants are to serve further responses to RFP
Nos. 3, 12, 13, and 23 within 15 days. The Court sanctions Defendants in the
total amount of $2060, to be paid within 30 days. 
 