  Case Number:  BC329482    Hearing Date:   August 16, 2024    Dept:  14 SJOBRING V. FIRST AMERICAN TITLE INSURANCE COMPANYFIRST AMERICAN TITLE INSURANCE COMPANY v. PATRICK AND GLORIA KIRKCase No.: BC329482 r/t BC370141 and BC382826Hearing Date: 8/14/24Department 14DEFENDANTS’ MOTION IN LIMINE NO. 9 TO EXCLUDE REFERENCE TO PRIOR DISCOVERY ORDERSTENTATIVE RULINGGrant Defendants’ MIL#9DISCUSSIONI. BackgroundIn their motion in limine #9, Defendants move for an order in limine excluding the introduction into evidence, or any reference, to selected discovery orders from the 2007-2010 time period.A. Relevance and probative value vs. prejudice[The Court incorporates by reference its discussion of the standards governing relevance and probative value vs. prejudice in its analysis of Defendants’ MIL #1.]Between 2007-2010, the prior discovery referee issued a series of discovery orders. Defendants argue that fifteen (15) of these discovery orders were referenced in the Plaintiffs’ opposition to Defendants’ motion for summary judgment. Defendants argue that these discovery orders are not relevant to any issue in the case; reference to such orders would be improper without complying with the governing Discovery Act procedures for the issuance of discovery sanctions and admonitions, (3) the Discovery Orders contain impermissible hearsay, and (4) even if the Discovery Orders were probative of any issue at trial, which they are not, references to the cherry-picked universe of orders would be unfairly prejudicial.According to Plaintiffs, though, these orders are relevant for two reasons:(1) They evidence First American’s consciousness of guilt; and(2) They irrefutably rebut First American’s insincere and unsupported claim that the Ratepayers engaged in discovery abuse and delayed the case.--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------1SJOBRING v. FIRST AMERICAN TITLE INSURANCE COMPANYFIRST AMERICAN TITLE INSURANCE COMPANY, ET AL. V. PATRICK AND GLORIA KIRK, ET AL.No.: BC329482 r/t BC370141 and BC382826Hearing Date: 8/16/24Department 14I.PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION IN LIMINE NO. 1 FOR A RULING THAT DOCUMENTS AUTHORED BY FIRST AMERICAN AND PRODUCED BY FIRST AMERICAN IN DISCOVERY ARE AUTHENTIC AND NON-HEARSAYTENTATIVE RULINGDefer order on MIL #1; require the parties to meet and confer as to those documents for which a stipulation can be reached regarding authenticity and hearsay; to the extent disputes exist over the authenticity of documents and whether said documents constitute hearsay, require Plaintiffs to make a proffer at the appropriate timeI. BackgroundIn anticipation of trial in this matter, Plaintiffs and Defendants have filed a series of motions in limine. In the instant motion in limine, Plaintiffs move for an order in limine finding that: (1) documents produced by Defendants First American Title Insurance Company and First American Title Company (collectively, “First American”) in discovery in this matter are authentic, and (2) such documents, to the extent they were authored by First American and are offered against First American at trial, are “authorized admissions” and thus excepted from the normal rule that hearsay evidence is inadmissible.A. Request for Judicial NoticeIn connection with MILs 1-8, Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice is granted as to each exhibit pursuant to Evidence Code §452(d). Each of these exhibits is a record of a court of the State of California, and is subject to judicial notice under this section. The Court does not judicially notice the truth of the matters set forth within exhibits 4-8, and judicial notice of these exhibits is limited to the fact that they comprise part of the trial record in Kirk v. First American.B. Motion in Limine #11. General standards governing authenticationWritings must be authenticated before they are received into evidence or before secondary evidence of their contents may be received. Evidence Code §1401; Continental Baking Co. v. Katz (1968) 68 Cal.2d 512, 525-526; Osborne v. Todd Farm Service )2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 43, 53; People v. Goldsmith (2014) 59 Cal.4th 258, 266; Jacobson v. Gourley (2000)283 Cal.App.4th 1331, 1334; California Practice Guide, Civil Trials & Evidence, ¶8:315 (The Rutter Group 2023). “Authentication” means either: the introduction of evidence sufficient to sustain a finding that the writing is what the proponent claims it is; or “the establishment of such facts by any other means provided by law” (e.g., stipulation or admissions). California Practice Guide, Civil Trials & Evidence, ¶8:317 (The Rutter Group 2023); People v. Goldsmith (2014) 59 Cal.4th 258, 266-267; Jacobson v. Gourley, supra, 83 Cal.App.4th at 1334; People v. Smith (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 986, 1001.Certain types of writing may be authenticated by judicial notice. Evidence Code §§451 and 452. Certain documents are presumed authentic (e.g., notarized deeds or certified copies of public records). California Practice Guide, Civil Trials & Evidence, ¶8:325 (The Rutter Group 2023). The party offering the writing has the burden of offering sufficient evidence of its authenticity to sustain a finding of fact to that effect. Evidence Code §403(a)(3). The judge alone determines whether there is sufficient evidence to sustain a finding of authenticity. Evidence Code §§403, 1400; Fakhoury v. Magner (1972) 25 Cal.App.3d 58, 65. As long as the proponent’s evidence would support a finding of authenticity, the writing is admissible. The fact conflicting inferences can be drawn regarding authenticity goes to its weight as evidence, not its admissibility. California Practice Guide, Civil Trials & Evidence, ¶8:331 (The Rutter Group 2023); McAllister v. George (1977) 73 Cal.App.3d 258, 261-263.A writing may be authenticated by evidence that the party against whom it is being offered has “acted upon” the writing as authentic. Evidence Code §1414(b); People v. Lynn (1984) 159 Cal.App.3d 715, 735; Jazayeri v. Mao (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 301, 326; California Practice Guide, Civil Trials & Evidence, ¶8:356 (The Rutter Group 2023).The court has discretionary power to admit a writing into evidence even before its authenticity is established...”subject to” proof of authenticity “being supplied later in the course of the trial.” Evidence Code §403(b). If such proof fails, the opposing party must move to strike the writing from evidence; and may ask that the jury be admonished to disregard it. California Practice Guide, Civil Trials & Evidence, ¶8:334 (The Rutter Group 2023).Authentication of internet sources presents a special problem. “Because ‘(a)nyone can put anything on the Internet’ and ‘hackers can adulterate the content on any web-site from any location at any time,’ evidence procured from the Internet must be properly authenticated.” California Practice Guide, Civil Trials & Evidence, The Rutter Group, §8:359 (citing People v. Beckley (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 509, 515-516; Wady v. Provident Life & Acc. Ins. Co. of America (CD CA 2002) 216 F.Supp.2d 1060, 1064-1065). Various factors may provide a basis for authenticating Internet-based material as evidence, including: 1) distinctive characteristics (unique characteristics of Internet material may be sufficient to establish authenticity – see ACTONet, Ltd. v. Allou Health & Beauty Care (8th Cir. 2000) 219 F.3d 836, 848 and Florida Conference Ass’n. of Seventh Day Adventists v. Kyriakides (CD CA 2001) 151 F.Supp.2d 1223, 1225, fn.3); 2) the context in which the party obtained documents (courts may also consider the context in which a party obtained Internet-based material to determine its authenticity – see Florida Conference Ass’n .v Seventh Day Adventists, supra, 151 F.Supp.2d at 1225, fn.3); 3) the content (the content of the Internet-based material may be a factor in establishing its authenticity – Florida Conference Ass’n., supra, at 1225, fn.3); and 4) the preparer’s testimony (testimony3from the person who created the Internet-based document attesting to how the material was prepared and its accuracy may also establish authenticity – see United States v. Tank (9th Cir. 2000) 200 F.3d 627, 630-631). California Practice Guide, Civil Trials & Evidence, ¶¶8:359.1-8:359.5 (The Rutter Group 2023).2. Standard governing relevanceUnder Evidence Code §350, “[n]o evidence is admissible except relevant evidence.” “Relevant evidence” is evidence that has “a tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact or consequence to the determination of the action.”3. AdmissionsAdmissions made, adopted or authorized by, or imputable to, a party to the action are admissible under several exceptions to the hearsay rule. California Practice Guide, Civil Trials and Evidence, ¶8:1136 (The Rutter Group 2023) (citing Evidence Code §§1220-1227). “Evidence of a statement is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule when offered against the declarant in an action to which he is a party….” Evidence Code §1220.However:[S]tatements assertedly made by a corporation are not usually analyzed as party admissions under Evidence Code section 1220, but rather as authorized admissions under Evidence Code section 1222.Under Evidence Code section 1222, “Evidence of a statement offered against a party is not made inadmissible by the hearsay rule if: [¶] (a) The statement was made by a person authorized by the party to make a statement or statements for him concerning the subject matter of the statement ....” (Evid. Code, § 1222, subd. (a).) Bowser v. Ford Motor Co. (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 587, 611.In their MIL#1, Plaintiffs seek a blanket order in limine, permitting them to introduce at trial documents created by First American in discovery, with a finding that such documents are authentic and admissible (if Plaintiffs make a proffer that such documents are relevant). Additionally, Plaintiffs seek an order finding that the First American-produced documents are authorized admissions, and not inadmissible hearsay.According to Plaintiffs, they seek to obviate the need to authenticate each document produced by First American in discovery, arguing that such documents are authentic as authorized admissions (and not inadmissible hearsay).However, the instant motion is extremely broad. The Court cannot make a blanket order at this time with respect to whether all documents Plaintiffs seek to introduce constitute hearsay (and/or hearsay within hearsay) or are otherwise authentic, especially given the fact that Defendants have expressed their intent to dispute the admissibility of specific documents.4With that said, Defendants have agreed that there are many documents that have been produced and that are indisputably authentic and non-hearsay. [Defendants’ Opposition 2:5-6.] The parties are ordered to engage in further meet-and-confer efforts in an attempt to reach a stipulation as to the authenticity and non-hearsay status of such documents.To the extent documents remain for which the parties cannot reach a stipulation on authenticity and non-hearsay, the Court defers a ruling on said documents, and will require a proffer at the appropriate time Plaintiffs seek to introduce the document.II.PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION IN LIMINE NO. 2 TO PRECLUDE DEFENDANTS FROM DISPUTING STATEMENTS MADE BY DEFENDANTS THROUGH INDIVIDUALS DESIGNATED AS PERSONS MOST QUALIFIEDTentative RulingDeny Plaintiffs’ MIL #2DISCUSSIONI. BackgroundIn the instant motion in limine, Plaintiffs move for an order in limine precluding First American from disputing, contradicting, or contesting factual statements or admissions made by First American through individuals it designated and produced as persons most qualified to testify in response to depositions noticed by class representative Sjobring under CCP§ 2025.230A. CCP §2025.230Under CCP §2025.230, “[i]f the deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In that event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any information known or reasonably available to the deponent.”In their MIL#2, Plaintiffs seek an order in limine, precluding Defendant from contradicting the deposition statements and admissions by its PMQs. As laid out in the motion, Plaintiffs reference numerous instances where various of Defendants’ PMQs (designated separately for various topics) understood that their testimony would be binding on Defendants. According to Plaintiffs, such testimony constitutes judicial admissions and binds Defendants.A party’s deposition answers are admissible as party admissions or for impeachment purposes but are not conclusive of the matter and may be contradicted by other evidence. See California Practice Guide, Civil Trials and Evidence, ¶8:1245 (The Rutter Group 2023) (citing CCP §2025.620; Mayhood v. LaRosa (1962) 58 Cal.2d 498, 500-501).5As discussed by the Court of Appeal in Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc.:For summary judgment purposes, deposition answers are simply evidence. Subject to the self-impeachment limitations of D'Amico, they are considered and weighed in conjunction with other evidence. They do not constitute incontrovertible judicial admissions as do, for example, concessions in a pleading [citations], or answers to requests for admissions, which are specially designed to pare down disputed issues in a lawsuit. [Citation.] Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1522 (emphasis added).As Defendants point out (and as this Court previously acknowledged in its prior rulings), the Plaintiffs’ theory of recovery in this case has changed from its inception. Thus, context is everything. Many of the PMQ depositions were taken years ago, before the evolution of Plaintiffs’ theory of recovery. It is precisely for that reason that the policy enunciated in Scalf above is so important.Plaintiffs, of course, will be free to attempt to highlight contradictions in the PMQ testimony at trial and Defendants’ subsequent explanations/clarifications of said testimony. The trier of fact will ultimately be given the opportunity to weigh such evidence. However, the Court will not enter a blanket order that all such PMQ deposition testimony is binding on the Defendants as a judicial admission.In doing so, the Court will also not permit references to a “PMQ” witness by Plaintiffs at trial; only references to lay witnesses and expert witnesses.In LAOSD Asbestos Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 939, the Court of Appeal stated:The Evidence Code recognizes only two types of witnesses: lay witnesses and expert witnesses. “Subject to Section 801, the testimony of a witness concerning a particular matter is inadmissible unless he has personal knowledge of the matter. Against the objection of a party, such personal knowledge must be shown before the witness may testify concerning the matter.” (Evid. Code, § 702, subd. (a).) Evidence Code section 801 governs the testimony of an expert witness, who may provide an opinion based on hearsay which need not always be based on personal knowledge.There is no special category of “corporate representative” witness….[¶] The Evidence Code also does not recognize a special category of “person previously designated as most knowledgeable” witness. “Person most qualified” is a term from the Code of Civil Procedure pertaining to depositions of entities which are not natural persons. LAOSD Asbestos Cases, 87 Cal.App.5th at 947-948.For these reasons, Plaintiffs’ MIL #2 is denied.6III.PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION IN LIMINE NO. 3 TO EXCLUDE REFERENCES TO ANY AND ALL MARKET CONDUCT EXAMSTENTATIVE RULINGDefer an order Plaintiffs’ MIL #3 subject to Defendant laying the foundation that the Market Conduct Exam satisfies the strictures of Evidence Code §1280’s governmental records exception to the hearsay ruleDISCUSSIONI. BackgroundIn their motion in limine #3, Plaintiffs move for an order in limine precluding First American from submitting into evidence, discussing, or questioning any witness about Market Conduct Examinations by the California Department of Insurance.A. Relevance and probative value vs. prejudiceUnder Evidence Code §350, “[n]o evidence is admissible except relevant evidence.” “Relevant evidence” is evidence that has “a tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact or consequence to the determination of the action.”Evidence Code §352 provides:The court in its discretion may exclude evidence if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the probability that its admission will (a) necessitate undue consumption of time or (b) create substantial danger of undue prejudice, of confusing the issues, or of misleading the jury.The “prejudice” §352 is designed to avoid is directed at evidence that “uniquely tends to evoke an emotional bias against (a party) as an individual and which has very little effect on the issues.” California Practice Guide, Civil Trials and Evidence, ¶8:3208 (The Rutter Group 2023) (citing People v. Karis (1988) 46 Cal.3d 612, 638; Ajaxo, Inc. v. E*TRADE Group, Inc. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 21, 45; Green v. County of Riverside (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1363, 1369-1370). Further, “‘[p]rejudice’ in the context of Ev. C. §352 means the evidence ‘is of such nature as to inflame the emotions of the jury, motivating them to use the information…to reward or punish one side because of the jurors’ emotional reaction.’” California Practice Guide, Civil Trials and Evidence, ¶8:32010 (The Rutter Group 2023) (citing People v. Doolin (2009) 45 Cal.4th 390, 439; Vorse v. Sarasy (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 998, 1008; Winfred D. v. Michelin North America, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1011, 1014; People v. Cowan (2010) 50 Cal.4th 401, 477; People v. Scott (2011) 52 Cal.4th 452, 491).B. Hearsay“Hearsay evidence” is evidence of a statement that was made other than by a witness while testifying at the hearing and that is offered to prove the truth of the matter stated.7Evidence Code §1200(a). Except as provided by law, hearsay evidence is inadmissible. Evidence Code §1200(b).In their MIL#3, Plaintiffs seek an order in limine, precluding Defendant from submitting into evidence, discussing, or questioning any witness about Market Conduct Examinations by the California Department of Insurance (“CDI”). As explained in the motion, the CDI regulates insurers in California, including Defendant First American. The CDI issued a document entitled “Report of Market Conduct Examination of the Rating and Underwriting Practices of the First American Title Insurance Company” (the “Market Conduct Exam”). [Exh. 1 to Freedman Declaration in Support of MIL #3.]Among other things, the Market Conduct Exam discusses First American’s method of doing business, advertising materials, authorized classes of business, authorized counties for affiliated underwritten title companies, and a premium and loss experience study. The Market Conduct Exam reviewed First American’s Title business, including a review of “343 in-force title policies and escrow files.” [Market Conduct Exam at 10.] The examiner, as provided in the report, identified 103 rating errors and 10 non-rating errors, and alleged violations of 13 provisions of California law. [Id.] A summary table of the policy review results appears at page 11 of the Market Conduct Exam. [Market Conduct Exam at 11.]According to Plaintiffs, Defendant First American will seek to introduce the Market Conduct Exam to show that “CDI’s failure to cite First American for overcharges means no such overcharges occurred.” [Motion at 3:25-26.] Plaintiffs argue that the Market Conduct Exam constitutes hearsay, and that any probative value of the Market Conduct Exam is outweighed by undue prejudice.Subject to specified foundational requirements, evidence of a public employee’s writing made in the performance of official duties as a record of an act, condition or event is admissible in any civil or criminal proceeding to prove the act, condition or event. California Practice Guide, Civil Trials and Evidence, ¶8:1682 (The Rutter Group 2023) (citing Evidence Code §1280).Admissibility of the writing under §1280 turns on the following foundational requirements:•The writing must have been made by a public employee within the scope of the public employee's official duties (Ev.C. § 1280(a));•The record must have been made at or near the time of the act, condition or event recorded (Ev.C. § 1280(b)); and•The sources of information and method and time of the record preparation must have been “such as to indicate its trustworthiness” California Practice Guide, Civil Trials and Evidence, ¶8:1682 (The Rutter Group 2023) (citing Ev.C. § 1280(c)) (emphasis added by Rutter Guide)).Here, the Court will require a proffer from Defendant that the report, prepared by CDI’s Senior Insurance Rate Analyst Jerome Tu, performed the exam within the scope of his official8duties, and that the other requirements under §1280 are satisfied. If that proffer is made, then the Market Conduct Exam will qualify under §1280’s governmental record exception to the hearsay rule.The document is plainly relevant, as it tends to support Defendant’s argument that it charged lawful rates, and committed no misrepresentation with regard to the rates. Additionally, the probative value of the Market Conduct Exam is not outweighed by any undue prejudice, within the meaning of Evidence Code §352 above.Of course, Plaintiffs will be free to highlight the statement in the Market Conduct Exam that the “[f]ailure to identify, comment on, or criticize non-compliant activities does not constitute acceptance of such activities.” Additionally, Plaintiffs may attempt to attack the Market Conduct Exam on other grounds. The trier of fact will consider such evidence (to the extent it is admissible at trial), including the testimony of Douglas Barker and James Dufficy. The objections lodged by Plaintiffs to the Market Conduct Exam go to the weight the jury will place on this evidence, rather than to its admissibility.For these reasons, the Court will defer an order Plaintiffs’ MIL #3 subject to Defendant laying the foundation that the Market Conduct Exam satisfies the strictures of Evidence Code §1280’s governmental records exception to the hearsay rule.IV.PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION IN LIMINE NO. 4 TO EXCLUDE DOCUMENTS PRODUCED BY THE CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF INSURANCETENTATIVE RULINGDefer an order Plaintiffs’ MIL #4 subject to Defendant making a proffer that specific DOI documents are nonhearsay (or fall under an exception to the hearsay rule), relevant, and that the probative value of such document(s) outweighs any undue prejudiceDISCUSSIONI. BackgroundIn their motion in limine #4, Plaintiffs move for an order in limine precluding Defendant First American from submitting into evidence, discussing, or questioning any witness about any documents produced by the California Department of Insurance in this litigation.II. MotionA. Legal standards and Discussion[The Court incorporates by reference the standards for relevance, probative value vs. prejudice, and hearsay, discussed in its analysis of Plaintiffs’ MIL #3.]9In their MIL#4, Plaintiffs seek an order in limine, precluding Defendant from submitting into evidence, discussing, or questioning any witness about any documents produced by the California Department of Insurance.The motion, as crafted, is extremely broad. The Court cannot issue an order in limine in a vacuum. To the extent Defendant First American seeks to introduce specific documents prepared by the CDI for use at trial, First American will be required to make a proffer, demonstrating that a given CDI document is relevant, that the probative value of the document is not outweighed by any undue prejudice, and that the document itself is either not hearsay or falls within one or more exceptions to the hearsay rule. As the Court does not know which CDI document(s) it plans to rely on and introduce at trial, the Court defers any ruling on the motion, subject to Defendant making this proffer at trial.V.PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION IN LIMINE NO. 5 TO EXCLUDE EVIDENCE OR ARGUMENT THAT THE CDI APPROVES OR PASSES JUDGMENT ON RATES CHARGED BY TITLE COMPANIES AND TITLE INSURERSTENTATIVE RULINGDefer an order Plaintiffs’ MIL #5 subject to Defendant making a proffer at trial with respect to the alleged approval by the CDI of its rates in question.DISCUSSIONI. BackgroundIn their motion in limine #5, Plaintiffs move for an order in limine precluding Defendants from seeking to suggest to the jury in any way, whether through offering evidence, questioning witnesses, or argument, that the Department of Insurance (“CDI”) approves the rates filed by title insurance companies, or that the CDI approved the rates at issue in this case.II. MotionIn their MIL#5, Plaintiffs seek an order in limine, precluding Defendants from seeking to suggest to the jury in any way, whether through offering evidence, questioning witnesses, or argument, that the Department of Insurance (“CDI”) approves the rates filed by title insurance companies, or that the CDI approved the rates at issue in this case.According to Plaintiffs, there are no challenges in this case to the Schedule of Fees itself or the rates reflected therein. However, Plaintiffs argue, Defendants want to argue that the CDI “approved” the fees or rates in question. [Motion at 4:7-9.] Plaintiffs argue that it is now “beyond dispute” that CDI does not “approve” title insurance rates. Sjobring v. First Am. Title Ins. Co. (Aug. 24, 2022, No. B293732), 2022 Cal.App.Unpub. LEXIS 5252 at *14 (citing Villanueva v. Fidelity National Title Co. (2021) 11 Cal.5th 104, 113). Plaintiffs reference the deposition of CDI’s PMQ Douglas Barker, where he testified that CDI applied a “file and use” system to title insurance (allowing title companies to file rates and then use them without approval of the CDI).10[Motion at 4:12-14.] He also declared that CDI “did not and does not ‘approve’ filings by title insurers.” [Plaintiffs’ RJN, Exh. 7, Barker Decl., ¶6.]Plaintiffs argue that while First American could characterize its filings as having been “accepted” by the CDI, to imply that the CDI “approved” the rate filings at issue would be false as a matter of law and fact. [Motion at 8:10-12.]The remaining claims in this litigation are for fraudulent and negligent misrepresentation. As Defendant First American argues, First American’s state of mind will be relevant in assessing potential affirmative defenses at trial. Therefore, evidence relied on by First American in effectuating its rate filings (including correspondence with the CDI and terminology used by CDI) may be relevant to these defenses.As examples, Defendant First American highlights the CDI Rate Analyst Worksheet, File No. 97-910 (created by CDI in Response to Defendants’ January 10, 1997 Rate Filing for the First Generation “Eagle” Policy); the CDI Rate Analyst Worksheet, File No. 98-7825 (created by CDI in Response to Defendants’ June 12, 1998 Rate Filing for the Second Generation “Eagle” Policy); and the June 24, 1998 Letter from CDI (Mr. D. Lawrence Buggage) to Defendants (Ms. Caroline O’Kelley). It would be inappropriate to issue a blanket order barring Defendant First American from arguing the CDI “approves” insurance rate filings. Such a determination would be for the trier of fact at trial. The trier of fact, of course, will be tasked with determining whether, in fact, CDI “approved” the rates (pursuant to the Insurance Code provisions governing rate filings, including §§12401.1 and 12401.7) or whether, as Plaintiffs argue, the rates were merely “accepted” (but not necessarily “approved” by CDI).The motion (as with Plaintiffs’ MIL #4) is overly broad. The effect of the CDI’s actions with respect to the filed rates is a hotly disputed issue, and the Court cannot issue an order in limine as to non-specific evidence. The Court therefore generally defers any order in limine with respect to this motion, subject to Defendant First American making a proffer at trial with respect to the alleged approval by the CDI of its rates in question.VI.PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION IN LIMINE NO. 6 TO EXCLUDE REFERENCE TO RATES CHARGED BY OTHER TITLE INSURANCE COMPANIESTENTATIVE RULINGDefer an order Plaintiffs’ MIL #6, subject to a limiting instruction, that evidence of “out of market” rates may only be considered: 1) in assessing the calculation of Plaintiffs’ damages in this case (if any); and 2) as a measure of the fair market value of the insurance Plaintiffs purchased.DISCUSSIONI. Background11In their motion in limine #6, Plaintiffs move for an order in limine precluding Defendants from introducing any evidence regarding rates charged by title insurance companies other than First American or from discussing or questioning any witnesses about other companies rates.A. Legal standards[The Court incorporates by reference the standards for relevance and probative value vs. prejudice, discussed in its analysis of Plaintiffs’ MIL #3.]In their MIL#6, Plaintiffs seek an order in limine, precluding Defendants from seeking to introduce any evidence of rates charged by other insurance companies. Under Plaintiffs’ theory, these rates charged by other insurers is irrelevant to whether Defendant First American’s own charged rates were higher than its filed rates.Generally, the motion is well-taken. There is a significant danger that the jury may be confused, and Plaintiffs unduly prejudiced, by allowing evidence of the rates charged by other competing insurers into evidence.Defendant First American, though, argues that such evidence is relevant to damages (measured in this case by the difference between the purchase price and market value of property purchased – see Gulke v. Brock (1963) 222 Cal.App.2d 459, 460). Here, according to Defendant First American, the “value” in question refers to its “fair market value” (CACI No. 1923), defined as “the highest price that a willing buyer would have paid on the date of the transaction to a willing seller….” See CACI 1923; Restatement (Second) of Torts §549, comment, Clause 1(a).With that said, the Court may consider allowing such evidence, subject to a limiting instruction, that evidence of “out of market” rates may only be considered: 1) in assessing the calculation of Plaintiffs’ damages in this case (if any); and 2) as a measure of the fair market value of the insurance Plaintiffs purchased. The danger the Court foresees is permitting evidence of the rates charged by a litany of title insurers, and the jury being confused by these outside rates as a measure of what Defendant First American actually may owe in damages. This is, after all, not a case about outside insurers’ filed rates and the rates they charged – it is a case about First American’s filed rates and the rates they charged for title insurance.The Court therefore defers an order on Plaintiffs’ MIL #6, subject to an appropriate limiting instruction.VII.PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION IN LIMINE NO. 7 TO EXCLUDE EVIDENCE OR ARGUMENT THAT THE PURCHASERS OF EAGLE OWNERS POLICIES WERE UNDERCHARGEDTENTATIVE RULINGDeny Plaintiffs’ MIL #7DISCUSSION12I. BackgroundIn their motion in limine #7, Plaintiffs move for an order in limine precluding Defendants from suggesting through evidence or argument that if the Ratepayers’ position is correct, the purchasers of Eagle Owners policies were undercharged.A. Legal standards[The Court incorporates by reference the standards for relevance and probative value vs. prejudice, discussed in its analysis of Plaintiffs’ MIL #3.]In their MIL#7, Plaintiffs seek an order in limine, precluding Defendants from suggesting through evidence or argument that if the Ratepayers’ position is correct, the purchasers of Eagle Owners policies were undercharged. Plaintiffs have alleged in this case that because Defendant’s Eagle Owners Policy was an extended coverage policy during the class period, the lawful price for a lenders policy issued concurrently with an Eagle Owners policy was $125, and First American charged class members more than this amount. [Motion at 3:3-6.] Conversely, according to Plaintiffs, First American contends that because its Eagle Owners policy was a standard coverage policy for “pricing purposes” during the class period, it charged class members the lawful price for a lenders policy issued concurrently with an Eagle Owners policy, even if the price exceeded $125. [Motion at 3:6-9.] According to Plaintiffs, whether those who paid for Eagle Owners policies were undercharged by First American has no bearing on the nature of that policy; nor is it relevant to what the lawful price would have been for a lenders policy issued concurrently with an Eagle Owners policy. [Motion at 3:13-16.]Plaintiffs anticipate that First American will attempt to insinuate and argue that if First American overcharged class members for concurrently-issued lenders policies, then it necessarily undercharged for Eagle Owners policies in the same transactions. [Motion at 3:21-24.] Such evidence, Plaintiffs argue, has no probative value, “especially to the critical determination of the nature of Eagle Owners policies, and would create a substantial danger of confusing the issues and misleading the jury.” [Motion at 3:24-26.] This, Plaintiffs argue, is because owners policies and lenders policies are separate insurance policies, protecting different people or entities; there is no requirement they be purchased from the same company, or even in the same transaction.At bottom, Plaintiffs argue that any undercharges in class transactions were of First American’s own making and were a risk that First American assumed when issuing the subject policies. [Motion at 4:14-16.] Plaintiffs point to the Court’s ruling and order granting the Kirk Cross-Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, finding that underpaying was of First American’s own making and that policy considerations “dictate that First American assumed the risk of any error when it issued the policy to the Kirk Cross-Defendants.” [Court’s Ruling and Order granting Kirk Cross-Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment at 18.] The Court ruled that “the Kirk Cross-Defendants were not, and could not have been, unjustly enriched and that First American is not entitled to restitution from the Kirk Cross-Defendants.” [Id. at 25.] This rationale, according to Plaintiffs, applies in full force to the First American policies at issue here.13As such, Plaintiffs seek to preclude First American from suggesting that those who paid for Eagle Owners policies during the class period were undercharged.Thus, Plaintiffs argue that if, during the class period, an Eagle Owners policy provided extended coverage, then First American was required to charge class members $125 for a concurrently issued lenders policy, regardless of how much it charged for an Eagle Owners policy. [Motion at 5:11-13.] It would not matter if the price for the Eagle Owners policy were $100, $1,000, or $10,000 – if an Eagle Owners policy was an extended coverage policy, then charging anything more than $125 for a concurrently issued lenders policy would be an unlawful rate, Plaintiffs argue. [Motion at 5:13-17.]Here, however, Defendant First American has an active cross-complaint and affirmative defenses, centered on an offset for any damages to which Plaintiffs may be entitled. Defendant First American’s theory is that if “the Eagle Owners Policy falls within the defined term ‘Extended Coverage’ for pricing purposes, evidence of the premium actually paid for Eagle Owners Policies – and the premium that should have been paid – [it] is necessary for the jury to determine what, if any, damages Sjobring and class members suffered when they purchased a concurrent loan policy.” [Opposition at 5:1-4.] Thus, as Defendants’ theory goes, if the class is awarded damages, a portion of those same class members underpaid First American for the Eagle Owner’s policies. [Opposition at 5:7-9.] The jury will ultimately be entrusted with making these damages determinations, and the offset is a component of that. While the jury may be free to disregard it, such evidence is relevant, and it would be improper to summarily prevent First American from making the “offset” argument based on the amounts charged and paid for the Eagle Owners Policy. The probative value of this evidence otherwise would not result in undue prejudice to Plaintiffs.The instant motion essentially seeks to summarily adjudicate one of First American’s affirmative defenses. This is procedurally improper. Per LASC Local Rule 3.57(b), “A motion in limine may not be used for the purpose of seeking summary judgment or the summary adjudication of an issue or issues.”Further, while the Court recognizes its ruling and order on the Kirk Cross-Defendants’ motion for summary judgment on the cross-complaint, the Court explicitly stated in that order that it was making no determination on the main issue in the instant Sjobring case – whether the policies are properly characterized as standard versus extended coverage. Nor was the Court deciding whether First American’s conduct was wrongful, or whether Plaintiff Sjobring (or the class) were entitled to damages or any amount of offset due.For these reasons, the Court denies motion in limine #7.14VIII.PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION IN LIMINE NO. 8 TO EXCLUDE REFERENCE TO PRIOR ORDERS, JUDICIAL STATEMENTS, OR DISMISSED CLAIMSTENTATIVE RULINGDefer order on Plaintiffs’ MIL #8 as overly broad, subject to renewal of objection to specific evidence First American may seek to introduce at trialDISCUSSIONI. BackgroundIn their motion in limine #8, Plaintiffs move for an order in limine precluding Defendants from referring to or discussing prior statements by judges in this or other cases about the merits of the claims, the attorneys, or the witnesses in this lawsuit, as well as any reference to claims that have been dismissed in this lawsuit.A.Legal standards[The Court incorporates by reference the standards for relevance, probative value vs. prejudice, and hearsay, discussed in its analysis of Plaintiffs’ MIL #3.]B. DiscussionIn their MIL#8, Plaintiffs seek an order in limine, precluding Defendants from referring to or discussing prior statements by judges in this or other cases about the merits of the claims, the attorneys, or the witnesses in this lawsuit, as well as any reference to claims that have been dismissed in this lawsuit.Conceptually, the Court agrees that statements by the Court in this case (or by prior judges in this case) about the merits of the claims, attorneys, witnesses, or dismissed claims in the lawsuit are generally not relevant, may constitute undue prejudice, and may constitute hearsay. However, MIL #8 is very broad, and the Court cannot anticipate what (if any) specific evidence First American may introduce that invokes such statements, but which may otherwise be admissible under Evidence Code §§350 and 352 and may not constitute hearsay (or satisfy one or more exceptions to the rule).In light of this, it is appropriate for the Court to defer an order on Plaintiffs’ MIL #8, subject to renewal by Plaintiffs objecting to specific evidence Defendants may introduce which encompasses the category of “prior statements by judges in this or other cases about the merits of the claims, the attorneys, or the witnesses in this lawsuit, as well as any reference to claims that have been dismissed in this lawsuit.”At the outset, the discovery orders are not “evidence” in this case. Nor is the discovery conduct of Defendant (or, for that matter, Plaintiffs). These orders are not relevant to any issue in2the case, and admission of the order(s) would result in undue prejudice. The Court disagrees with Plaintiffs that such orders are admissible to “support the inference that First American knew the discovery at issue would prove its liability and therefore stonewalled and attempted to suppress the evidence.” [Opposition at 5:14-16.] Admission of any such orders as evidence would be inappropriate, and the motion is granted.Plaintiffs, in their MIL #8, move for an order in limine precluding Defendants from referring to or discussing prior statements by judges in this or other cases about the merits of the claims, the attorneys, or the witnesses in this lawsuit, as well as any reference to claims that have been dismissed in this lawsuit. The Court, as discussed in its analysis of that motion, has deferred any such order, pending a showing that specific evidence falling within this category is relevant, non-hearsay, and whose admission would not be unduly prejudicial. However, the Plaintiffs’ MIL #8 is broader than what Defendants seek to preclude here - the actual discovery referee’s discovery orders, which, the Court finds, are not admissible.