 Case Number:  BC562840    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ANTONIO ROSALES,
  through his guardian ad litem Soledad Weaver,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CAMILO GARCIA, et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  BC562840
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
PETITION FOR WITHDRAWAL OF FUNDS FROM
  BLOCKED ACCOUNT
 
Date: October 24, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Petitioner
Soledad Weaver, as guardian ad litem for Antonio Rosales (“Petitioner”)
 
The
Court has considered the moving papers. 
No opposition papers were filed. 
 
BACKGROUND
             On October 17, 2024, Petitioner filed this
Petition to Withdraw Funds from Blocked Account (“Petition”), seeking to
withdraw the remaining balance on the blocked account (“Account”) of Plaintiff Antonio
Rosales (“Plaintiff”), and to close out the Account.  Petitioner represents herself as the guardian
ad litem for Plaintiff, an adult who had a physical and mental disability, whom
Petitioner states is now deceased.
 
DISCUSSION
            CRC Rule 7.954 states that “[a]
petition for the withdrawal of funds deposited for a minor or a person with a
disability must be verified and must include the identity of the depository, a
showing of the amounts previously withdrawn, a statement of the balance on
deposit at the time of the filing of the petition, and a justification for the
withdrawal.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
7.954(a).)
 
            Petitioner’s Form MC-357 indicates
that the depository is J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, the current balance in the Account
is $11,176.01, and indicates previous withdrawals made on the Account.  The Form also indicates Plaintiff’s date of
death as “July 16, 2024.”  Petitioner
submits, as justification for the requested withdrawal, that Plaintiff is
“deceased and based on Mr. ROSALES (sic), Power of Attorney, final funds
should be dispensed in accord with it.”  
 
The
Court finds that the request is improper as Petitioner has not submitted the
purported Power of Attorney nor a certified copy of the death certificate of
Plaintiff.  Moreover, heirs of deceased
incompetent are real parties in interest and have a right to intervene in the
administration of the Account.  (In re
Clanton's Est. & Guardianship (1915) 171 Cal. 381, 153.)  Thus, to support the Petition, Petitioner was
also required to submit a declaration regarding whether there is or ever was a
probate proceeding regarding Plaintiff’s estate and, if so, the result of such
proceeding.  If there was no probate
proceeding, Petitioner is to submit a declaration regarding Plaintiff’s heirs.
 
RULING
Accordingly,
the Petition is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court website
at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the
motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 24th day of October 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



