  Case Number:  21STCV06362    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



PATRICK KRUG, an
  individual, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE
CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY, a
government entity, and DOES 1 through
  25,
inclusive,
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  21STCV06362
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO SEVER PLAINTIFF’S RETALIATION
  CAUSES OF ACTION FROM PLAINTIFF’S FAILURE TO PREVENT, INVESTIGATE AND REMEDY CAUSE
  OF ACTION
 
Date: October 24, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE CALIFORNIA STATE UNIVERSITY (“Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
PATRICK KRUG (“Plaintiff”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This action arises out of an employment
relationship.  The operative second
amended complaint alleges: (1) discrimination; (2) harassment; (3) retaliation;
(4) failure to prevent, investigate and remedy harassment and discrimination;
(5) whistleblower retaliation; and (6) reprisal/retaliation.  On October 24, 2023, the Court granted
Defendant’s motion for summary judgment with respect to the first, second, and
sixth causes of action.  Thus, the
remaining causes of action are for retaliation (under the California Fair
Employment and Housing Act and under the Labor Code) and for failure to prevent,
investigate and remedy retaliation under FEHA.
 
            On September 24, 2024, Defendant
filed the instant Motion to Sever Plaintiff’s Retaliation Causes of Action From
Plaintiff’s Failure to Prevent, Investigate and Remedy Cause of Action (the
“Motion”).  Plaintiff filed an opposition
on October 8, 2024 and Defendant filed a reply on October 14, 2024.
 
DISCUSSION
“The
court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate
trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial
of any cause of action, including a cause of action asserted in a
cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action
or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by the Constitution
or a statute of this state or of the United States.”  (CCP §¿1048(b).)  The trial court has broad discretion in
determining the motion.  (Grappo v.
Coventry Financial Corp.¿(1991) 235 Cal.App.3d 496, 504.)  
 
“The
court may, when the convenience of witnesses, the ends of justice, or the
economy and efficiency of handling the litigation would be promoted thereby, on
motion of a party, after notice and hearing, make an order, no later than the
close of pretrial conference in cases in which such pretrial conference is to
be held, or, in other cases, no later than 30 days before the trial date, that
the trial of any issue or any part thereof shall precede the trial of any other
issue or any part thereof in the case, except for special defenses which may be
tried first pursuant to Sections 597 and 597.5.” (CCP §¿598.)  
 
In
its Motion, Defendant argues that since retaliation is a necessary element of
Plaintiff’s cause of action for failure to prevent/investigate retaliation,
there would be no need to continue trial on the latter claim if he is unable to
establish retaliation first, and as such, severance of Plaintiff’s retaliation
claims from his claim for failure to prevent/investigate would be efficient and
economical.  Defendant also asserts that
not only will severing the claims save substantial time and resources, but it
will also avoid a significant risk of confusing the jury and prejudicing Defendant,
as allowing Plaintiff to present evidence in support of his claim for failure
to prevent/investigate retaliation before the jury even determines that there
was retaliation at all poses a strong risk that the jury will confuse evidence
of how Defendant handled the investigation and appeal of Plaintiff’s complaint
as evidence of actual retaliation against Krug. 
 
In
opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s actions in responding to
Plaintiff’s complaint are inextricably intertwined with his claim for
retaliation, and that establishing Plaintiff’s prima facie case of retaliation,
including that Defendant subjected Plaintiff to an adverse employment action
and that Plaintiff’s protected activity was a substantial motivating reason for
Defendant’s adverse action, requires questioning witnesses about what they said
in the investigation of Plaintiff’s complaints. 
Plaintiff also asserts that Plaintiff would be prejudiced if the claims
were severed, anticipating that Defendant would object to evidence of the
totality of the workplace circumstances, including Defendant’s handling of
Plaintiff’s complaint, and could result in Plaintiff not being able to present
all evidence of his retaliation claims. 
Plaintiff further claims that several witnesses would have to testify
multiple times if the claims are severed into two trials.
Here, there are two remaining claims based on the
same statute (FEHA), involving the same witnesses, and the same parties.  Thus, the circumstances of this case suggest
that severing the issues as Defendant requests would not promote convenience
and would actually be uneconomical.  Multiple
court appearances are expensive and time-consuming.  It is, therefore, not any more convenient than
a single trial, and it is certainly more costly and time-consuming. This will
not save anyone, including the Court, any time or resources.  This weighs in favor of denying severance.
 
The Court is also not persuaded that a jury would be
confused by issues.  Any purported
confusion of the issues or facts can be addressed with appropriate jury
instructions.  The court will not presume that the jury will be incapable
of following the instructions given.  (Rufo v. Simpson (2001) 86
Cal.App.4th 573, 598 (“juries are presumed to follow a trial court's limiting
instruction.”); People v. Sanchez¿(2001) 26 Cal.4th 834, 852 (“Jurors
are presumed able to¿understand and correlate instructions and are further
presumed to have followed the court's instructions.”)
 
In sum, the Court finds that severance will not
promote convenience to the parties or judicial economy.  Therefore, severance is not warranted.
            
RULING
            Accordingly, the Motion is DENIED.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 24th day of October, 2024 