 Case Number:  21STCV24343    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2023    Dept:  20
Tentative Ruling
Judge Kevin C. Brazile

Department 20

Hearing Date:                         Tuesday, October 10,
2023
Case Name:                             Family Christian
Cathedral, et al. v. Goal Properties Investments, et al.
Case No.:                                21STCV24343
Motion:                                  Motions to be
Relieved as Counsel (2x)
Moving Party:                         Counsel Felicia Mobley
of Mobley Law Office
Responding Party:                  Unopposed
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    The Motions
are GRANTED.
 
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
If counsel do not
submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by
LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

 

 
Felicia Mobley of Mobley Law Office seeks
to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiffs Dr. Jynona Norwood and Family
Christian Cathedral, a California non-profit religious corporation.
George Flaviu Pop and Black Exclusive
Security, Inc.
The Motions are granted because they meet
all requirements of Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1362.
The Court notes that counsel mistakenly marked Dr. Jynona Norwood as a
corporation rather than individual. However, this is not grounds to deny the
motion since Family Christian Cathedral is a corporation, which counsel
correctly marked. Counsel also failed to identify all upcoming hearings and
list the address of the Court in all items. Counsel only identified the final status
conference set for April 3, 2025, but failed to identify the hearing on motion
to compel further discovery responses set for May 6, 2024. However, given the
continuances of these motions, the Court excuses the failure to identify that
hearing. Further, there is no showing of prejudice since there is no opposition
filed and the hearing on the motion to compel further as well as the trial date
is quite far out.
Finally, the Court notes that Plaintiff
Family Christian Cathedral is a corporate entity. A corporation, unlike a
natural person, cannot represent itself before courts of record in proper
personia, nor can it represent itself through a corporate officer, director, or
other employee who is not an attorney. (CLD Const., Inc. v. City of San
Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1145.) Accordingly, an OSC Re:
Representation will be set for fourteen days from hearing. At that time, Family
Christian Cathedral must be prepared to appear with substitute counsel, and
substitute counsel must be prepared to update the court as to counsel’s
readiness to proceed to trial.  
The motion is GRANTED.
Moving party to give notice.
Attorney is relieved as counsel of record
for client effective upon the filing of the proof of
service
for the Court order (form MC-053) upon the clients.
            If counsel do not submit on the
tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than
in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
