 Case Number:  22PSCV01829    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Sophia
Soli v. Polaris Industries, Inc., et al. 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Deposition of Seidner Enterprises, LLC 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel deposition of
Seidner Enterprises, LLC. The person most qualified for Seidner Enterprises,
LLC must appear for deposition within 30 days of the Court’s order, and produce
all documents requested in connection therewith. 
The Court further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary
sanctions in the reduced amount of $1,060.00. Seidner and its counsel must pay
said monetary sanctions to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of the Court’s
order. 
              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is a products liability action. On November 15, 2022, plaintiff
Sophia Soli (Plaintiff) filed this action against defendants Polaris
Industries, Inc., Seidner Enterprises, LLC (Seidner), and Does 1 to 50,
alleging causes of action for strict products liability and negligence. 
On March 7, 2023, Seidner filed a cross-complaint against Roes 1
to 25 for declaratory relief, equitable indemnity, contribution, and implied
indemnity. 
On February 16, 2024, Plaintiff moved to compel the deposition of
Seidner Enterprises, LLC. On March 14, 2024, Seidner opposed the motion. On March
18, 2024, Plaintiff replied. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to
the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or
a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230,
without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear
for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (a).) 
If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the
court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the
deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (g)(1).) 
DISCUSSION 
Meet and Confer 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (b)(2), does
not require a meet-and-confer declaration where there was a nonappearance, but
it does require a declaration indicating that the deposing party inquired about
the nonappearance. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).) Counsel for
Plaintiff indicates having called and spoken with counsel for Seidner regarding
the nonappearance at issue. (Cloyd Decl., ¶ 5, subd. (c).) The Court finds this
sufficient. 
Summary of Arguments 
Plaintiff indicates having served a notice of deposition on
Seidner on December 26, 2023, for a deposition on February 6, 2023. Plaintiff’s
counsel contends he contacted counsel for Seidner on January 25, 2024, to
confirm Seidner’s deposition attendance. Seidner’s counsel indicated it did not
work and that he would provide Plaintiff’s counsel with new dates. Plaintiff’s
counsel contends he followed up again shortly before the deposition about the
new dates, but to no avail. Seidner did not appear for the deposition.
Plaintiff’s counsel contends he contacted counsel for Seidner to inquire about
the nonappearance, who promised to provide Seidner’s availability by the end of
the week, but to no avail. Plaintiff’s counsel warned that he would seek a
motion to compel with sanctions, to which counsel for Seidner responded that
Plaintiff’s deposition notice was absurd. 
In opposition, Seidner contends Plaintiff’s deposition notice is
overly broad and does not relate to the scope of this case. Seidner contends
the scope of questions and documents sought are better suited for Defendant
Polaris, who manufactured the product in question, rather than Seidner. Seidner
then contends Plaintiff did not adequately meet and confer before filing this
motion, while acknowledging that Seidner could have formally objected to the
deposition notice but did not do so. Seidner further contends the sanctions are
not warranted because Plaintiff’s motion failed to provide proper notice and is
defective, and Seidner has legitimate objections and concerns that need to be addressed
through additional meeting and conferring. 
Analysis 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s motion to be well taken. Plaintiff served
the deposition notice on December 26, 2023, which is well in advance of the
February 6, 2024 deposition date. (Cloyd Decl., Ex. 3; Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.270, subd. (a).) Counsel for Plaintiff contacted counsel for Seidner
regarding the deposition date and counsel for Seidner promised to provide available
dates for the deposition. (Cloyd Decl., ¶ 5; Ex. 4.) Seidner did not serve any
objections to the notice of deposition. (Cloyd Decl., ¶ 6; Opp., 7:7-8.)
Seidner did not appear for the deposition either. (Cloyd Decl., ¶5, subd. (c).)
Counsel for Plaintiff contacted counsel for Seidner by phone to inquire about
the nonappearance. (Id.) Counsel for Plaintiff otherwise attempted to
resolve the nonappearance issue without bringing this motion, but Seidner
refused. (Id., ¶ 5, subds. (d)-(e).) The Court further finds Seidner’s
arguments regarding the scope of the deposition notice and requests for
production of documents to be unavailing, given Seidner’s admitted failure to
serve any objections. (Cloyd Decl., ¶ 6; Opp., 7:7-8; Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.410,
subd. (a).) Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel
Seidner’s deposition attendance. To the extent the designated witness has no knowledge
or information regarding the categories described in the notice, such witness
can testify to such under oath. 
With respect to monetary sanctions and the adequacy of the notice,
the Court finds Plaintiff gave Seider and its counsel, Mr. Gutierrez, adequate
notice. The notice identifies both Seidner and its counsel in requesting
monetary sanctions. (Notice, 1:26-2:1; Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.040.) To the
extent Mr. Gutierrez takes issue with Plaintiff having gotten his last name
wrong, what is clear to the Court is that Mr. Gutierrez understood that the
request for monetary sanctions was directed to both him and Seidner. (Opp., 8:8-10.) 
The Court further finds unpersuasive Seidner’s arguments that
Plaintiff did not engage in adequate meet and confer efforts. The law only
required Plaintiff to inquire about the nonappearance. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450, subd. (b)(2).) Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to confirm Seidner’s
appearance in advance and Mr. Gutierrez indicated he would provide new dates
but never did. (Cloyd Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 4.) Plaintiff’s counsel attempted to
resolve this dispute by talking with Mr. Gutierrez on the phone regarding the
nonappearance and even contacted him again a week later to apprise him of
Plaintiff’s intent to move to compel Seidner’s deposition attendance and seek
monetary sanctions. (Id.) It was only after Plaintiff’s counsel raised
the issue of filing a motion to compel did Seidner’s counsel raised any issues
with the deposition notice or the documents requested therein. The Court finds
Plaintiff’s efforts were more than sufficient here. 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary
sanctions, albeit in the reduced amount of $1,060.00, comprised of 1.5 hours
preparing the motion and reply, 0.5 hours for appearing at the hearing on the
motion, for a total of 2.0 hours, multiplied by the hourly rate of $500.00,
plus $60.00 for the motion filing fee. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel deposition of
Seidner Enterprises, LLC. The person(s) most qualified for Seidner Enterprises,
LLC must appear for deposition within 30 days of the Court’s order, and produce
all responsive documents requested in connection therewith that are in its
possession, custody or control. 
The Court further GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for monetary
sanctions in the reduced amount of $1,060.00. Seidner and its counsel must pay
said monetary sanctions to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of the Court’s
order. 
              Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.