


[1] More specifically,
Ronald Podojil (Podojil) and Mamoun Yaghch are the insured homeowners. The
complaint alleges that the subject mirror was purchased at HomeGoods by the
insureds’ interior designer, Bell. (Complaint ¶8.) 


[2] Oppositions are due
at least 9 court days before a hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)
Here, 9 court days before the 12/5 hearing (taking into account the holidays of
11/23 and 11/24), would require an opposition by 11/20. However, Plaintiff did
not submit its opposition until 11/22. That said, adhering to the principle of
adjudicating motions on their merits, the court exercises its discretion to overlook the untimely
opposition. While Defendant maintains that the court, pursuant to CRC
Rule 3.3100d must note in its minute order that an untimely opposition is being
considered, that is not so. (Reply p. 3.) Rather, if the court refuses to consider a late filed paper, the minute
order must so indicate. The court is not refusing to consider the late
opposition. 


[3] This exception is of
focus in the motion. 
 


[4] In opposition,
Plaintiff asserts that Defendant waived a cost of proof motion by not filing to
compel further discovery responses. (Opp. p. 5.) However, Plaintiff does so
conclusively (i.e., by merely citing to two cases without providing an analysis
let alone a pinpoint citation). Thus, the argument is deemed waived. (But
see Reply pp. 4-5 for Defendant’s response to the argument.) 
 


[5] And Plaintiff presumably could not
rely upon the homeowners as they too did not have information that tied the
mirror to HomeGoods. 
 


[6]
See also Defendant’s
Evidence in support of MSJ, Ex. H [Kangas Declaration], ¶8 [“I have performed
several searches of HomeGoods inventories, and I have also examined photographs
of the subject mirror. Searches for products based on two coded numbers, and
based on a description of a "Myron Mirror," yielded no results.
HomeGoods has never bought mirrors from the Butler Specialty Company, which
Plaintiffs allege played some role in the manufacture or distribution of the
mirror. Based on the foregoing, we are unable to confirm or deny that HomeGoods
did or did not sell the mirror which State Farm alleges was involved in a fire.
Overall, however, the lack of any confirmed connection or relation between the
mirror and HomeGoods makes it more probable than not that HomeGoods did not
sell the subject mirror.”].) This declaration was signed on 7/29/2022,
suggesting it also took Defendant a couple of years to gather sufficient
information. 
 

