 Case Number:  23PSCV01643    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
 
(1)  
Defendant
POSITIVE BEHAVIORAL STEPS’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint
(FAC) is SUSTAINED with leave to amend; notably for uncertainty
(i.e., improperly lumping the corporate Defendants). 
 
(2)  
Defendant
POSITIVE BEHAVIORAL STEPS CORPORATION’s Motion to Strike Portion of the FAC is MOOT
in part and GRANTED in part with leave to amend (i.e., as to prejudgment
interest).  
 
Background
 
This is a personal
injury case. Plaintiff JORGE LOYOLA, an individual, by and through his guardian
ad litem, SOLEDAD LOPEZ alleges the following against Defendants POSITIVE
BEHAVIOR STEPS CORPORATION(“PBS”); SAN GABRIEL POMONA REGIONAL CENTER (“Pomona
Regional”); MICHAEL PENGSON PEDROSA (“Pedrosa”): Plaintiff, who is
developmentally disabled, non-verbal, and autistic (FAC ¶3), is a client of
Defendants PBS and Pomona Regional. 
(¶34.) Pedrosa was assigned to Plaintiff. (¶18.) One day, Pedrosa took
Plaintiff on a walk. After returning home three hours later, Plaintiff was
diagnosed with a broken right arm. (¶24.) The basis of the complaint is that
Defendants “either negligently and/or intentionally, abused and/or neglected
the Plaintiff, and such negligence, abuse, and/or neglect, was the actual,
proximate, and substantial cause of Plaintiff’s harm.” (¶25.) 
 
On June 1, 2023,
Plaintiff filed suit. 
 
On July 10, 2023,
the clerk filed a notice of voiding Pedrosa’s answer.
 
On August 17, 2023,
Pomona Regional filed its answer. 
 
On October 3, 2023,
Plaintiff filed its FAC asserting the following 6 causes of action (COAs): 1.     Negligence 2.     Negligent hire, supervision, and retention 3.     Negligence per se in violation of mandatory
duties under CANRA the child abuse and neglect reporting act (penal code §§ 11164, et seq.) 4.     Assault 5.     Battery 6.     Harassment in violation of Unruh civil rights
act (civil code § 51)  
On November 2, 2023,
Pomona Regional filed its answer. 
 
On November 7, 2023,
PBS filed the instant demurrer x MTS.
 
On November 20,
2023, Plaintiff filed his opposition to both.
 
On November 27,
2023, PBS filed its Reply. 
 
Legal Standard
A demurrer, in pertinent part, may be asserted when the pleading does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action or that it is uncertain.
(Code of Civ. Proc., §430.10 subds. (e), (f).) A demurrer tests the sufficiency
of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer must appear on the face of the
pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (Code of Civ. Proc. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) Lastly, CCP
section 430.41 requires the parties to meet and confer before the filing of a
demurrer.
Discussion
 
PBS demurs to all
COAs asserted against it (all but the 4th and 5th COAs
for assault and battery, respectively). 
 
While PBS advances
numerous arguments, the court will focus on Plaintiff’s failure to
differentiate between the alleged conduct of PBS versus Pomona Regional. The
FAC defines PBS as a “business conducts research, establishes and implements
program development for the community and staff, networking, employs and/or
makes assignment of workers and/or employees, credentialing, and
vendorization.” (¶5.) The FAC defines Pomona Regional as entity that provides
“services for diagnosis and evaluation, assistance in finding and using
community resources and funds, service coordination with staff and the
community, individual program planning for minors and disabled, information
gathering and referrals, prevention services of abuse and neglect, advocacy for
the community and disabled, and purchase of services for their clients and/or
community.” (¶6.) Similarly, equivocally, Plaintiff alleges that Pedrosa is an
employee of “[PBS] and/or [Pomona Regional].” (¶7.) It is unclear as to
how the two entities are related, who was in a supervisory position over
Pedrosa, what duty did each entity have, how did each entity alleged breach its
duties. Even as to the battery COA, which is alleged against Pedrosa, the
factual allegations still reference all Defendants and that all Defendants
proximately caused Plaintiff’s harm. 
 
Consequently, as is
unclear as to which Defendant did what (which is inherent in determining
whether Plaintiff has pled sufficient facts to support each COA), the pleading
fails to adhere to California’s “Fair Notice” test. (Demurrer p. 8, quoting
Doheny Park Terrace Homeowners Assn. Inc. v. Truck Ins. Exchange (2005) 132
Cal. App. 4th 1076, 1099 [A plaintiff must "set forth the essential facts
of his case with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficient to
acquaint a defendant with the nature, source and extent of his cause of
action."]; see also Demurrer p. 8 quoting Doe v. City of Los Angeles
(2007) 42 Cal. 4th 531, 549-550, [A complaint must provide Defendant with
“notice of the issues sufficient to enable preparation of a defense."].)
Without pleading the essential facts, the FAC is largely boilerplate as a
recitation of the elements of the various COAs. 
 
As on a demurrer the
court is bound to the four corners of the complaint and not arguments raised in
papers, it is imperative that the complaint and each COA adhere to CCP section
425.10’s pleading requirements. 
 
Plaintiff’s
Opposition fails to address the issues raised in the Demurrer, specifically the
lack of fair notice mentioned above. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, the demurrer is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
Motion to Strike
 
As for the MTS, it largely
challenges the legal adequacy/sufficiency of the claims as argued in the
demurrer. 
 
As for attorney fees,
since the court has granted leave to amend on the demurrer (including on the
Unruh Act), the motion to strike attorney fees is MOOT, as well. 
 
As for prejudgment
interest, PBS cites to California Civil Code § 3287 which provides that a
plaintiff entitled to pre-judgment interest only where damages are certain or
capable of being made certain by calculation and the right to recover vested
upon a particular day. (MTS p. 18.) As noted by the court in Greater
Westchester Homeowners' Assn. v. City of Los Angeles (1979) 26 Cal 3d 86,
102-103 (cited by PBS in its motion), Civil Code section 3287 relates to
liquidated and contractual claims, claims of which are inapplicable here. 
 
In opposition,
Plaintiff provides no analysis or explanation as to how damages can be
established, which would then allow for recovery of prejudgment interest.
Instead, Plaintiff cites to Levy-Zenther Co. v. Southern Pac. Transp.
Co. (1977) 74 Cal.App.3d 762 and U.S. Fidelity v. Lee Investments LLC (2011)
565 U.S. 1035, but both are inapplicable as the latter involved an insurer's claim
for restitution and the former involved a tort action for property
damages. The Reply does not
address either case. 
 
Therefore, the court
GRANTS the MTS as to prejudgment interest WITH leave to amend. 
 
 
 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the demurrer is sustained in its entirety with leave to amend. The
MTS is largely MOOT and only GRANTED with leave to amend as to prejudgment
interest. 