  Case Number:  20PSCV00249    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
MOTION BY DEFENDANT, HOMEGOODS, INC.,
FOR COSTS OF PROOF 
SANCTIONS UNDER CODE OF CIVIL
PROCEDURE SECTION 2033.420 IN THE 
AMOUNT OF $105,054.15 AGAINST
PLAINTIFFS STATE FARM GENERAL 
INSURANCE COMPANY AND STATE FARM
MUTUAL AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE 
COMPANY, JOINTLY AND SEVERALLY is DENIED.
 
Background
 
This is a
subrogation case. Plaintiff State Farm General Insurance Company and State Farm
Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (“State Farm” or “Plaintiffs”) allege the
following: a heavy mirror in one of Plaintiffs’ insured home fell, hitting a
gas pipe that then caused an explosion. The explosion also affected the
neighbor’s vehicle, another of Plaintiffs’ insureds. Plaintiffs believe that
the explosion, fire and damage originated from the subject mirror and its parts
which were manufactured, designed, distributed, inspected, supplied, sold,
installed and/or purchased by Defendants, THE UTTERMOST CO. dba THE UTTERMOST
CO. – WCDC (“Uttermost”); THE TJX COMPANIES, INC. dba HOMEGOODS (“HomeGoods” or
“Defendant”), SHERYL BELL (“Bell”); and DOES 1-30, inclusive.[1]
 
On April 1,
2020, State Farm filed suit against Defendants for: 
 
1. Negligence 
2. Strict Products Liability 
3. Breach of Implied Warranties 
 
On August 4,
2022, HomeGoods filed a summary judgment motion (MSJ). 
 
On August 11, 2023, the court GRANTED
HomeGood’s MSJ.
 
On October 27, 2023, HomeGoods filed
the instant motion. That same day, HomeGoods filed a 
Memorandum of Costs. 
 
On November 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed its opposition to
the instant motion. That same day, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Strike TAX COSTS
OF DEFENDANT HOMEGOODS, INC.[2]
 
On November 28, 2023, HomeGoods filed its reply in
support of its motion. 
 
On November 30, 2023, the parties filed a ‘Stipulation
Between Plaintiffs State Farm General Insurance Company And State Farm Mutual
Automobile Insurance Company, And Defendant Homegoods, Inc., Re Entry Of
Judgment And Filing Of Memorandum Of Costs And Motion To Tax.’

Legal Standard
 
HomeGoods brings forth the motion pursuant to CCP section
2033.420.
 
In turn, the statute provides the following:
 
(a)            
If
a party fails to admit the genuineness of any document or the truth of any
matter when requested to do so under this chapter, and if the party requesting
that admission thereafter proves the genuineness of that document or the truth
of that matter, the party requesting the admission may move the court for an
order requiring the party to whom the request was directed to pay the
reasonable expenses incurred in making that proof, including reasonable
attorney's fees.
 
(b) The court shall
make this order unless it finds any of the following:
 
(1) An objection to the request
was sustained or a response to it was waived under Section 2033.290.
(2) The admission sought was of
no substantial importance.
(3) The party failing to make the
admission had reasonable ground to believe that that party would prevail on the
matter.[3]
(4) There was other good reason
for the failure to admit.
 
A party
moving under Section 2033.420 must make a showing that they “spent the amounts
claimed to prove the issues [the opposing party] should have admitted.” (Motion
p. 11, citing Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.420, subd. (a).)[4]

 
Discussion
 
HomeGoods
(hereinafter, “Defendant”) seeks cost of proof sanctions against Plaintiff
attorney fees of $105,054.15, because Defendant incurred the fees to prevail on
its MSJ and to prove the matters that Plaintiff (unreasonably) denied it its
responses to various Requests for Admission (RFAs). (Motion p. 5:3-7.) There
are RFAs at issue including Nos. 3, 8, 11, 14, 16-18, and 21 which ask, inter
alia, whether Plaintiff had evidence showing that Defendant manufactured the
product at issue or whether identifying markings or numbers on the product
linked the mirror to Defendant.
 
As to most RFAs, Plaintiff’s response was the following:
 
Without waiving the foregoing objections
State Farm is informed the mirror was placed in the stream of commerce by one
of the defendants and at this time State Farm is unable to admit or deny this
Request and this basis denies this Request on the grounds discovery has just
commenced and plaintiffs’ have not served discovery on the defendants in this
case and defendants have critical information and evidence which State Farm is
informed and believes will show the evidence to support the contention set
forth in the Request. (See Separate Statement filed concurrently with Motion.) 
 
Defendant
cites to Association for L.A. Deputy Sheriffs v. Macias (2021) 63
Cal.App.5th 1007 (Macias) to support its proposition that Plaintiff’s
response authorizes cost of proof.  
 
The court facts the facts distinguishable. 
 
In Macias,
a union representing employees of the county
sheriff’s department brought action against union's former president
(Macias) and its vice president, alleging causes of action for breach. (Id. at
p. 1011.) Macias allegedly withdrew $100,000 from a political action committee
account of the union to retain a law firm. (Ibid.) The union sought cost
of proof based on defendants’ failure to admit the truth of basic matters, most
of which related to the $100,000 withdrawal, the $100,000 bank withdrawal slip,
and the cashier's check. (Id. at p. 1018.) To the RFAs, defendants
responded that they were unable to admit or deny the requests as they lacked
sufficient information. (Id. at p. 1025.) The appellate disagreed with
the trial court's view that costs of proof were unauthorized noting while in
some cases that may be so, the responses but it is not so here. (Id. at
p. 1028.) The appellate court reasoned that the failure to admit that Plaintiff
did not “own” the $100,000 is matter that should have “obviously” been
admitted. (Id. at p. 1029.) “At the very least, defendants had a duty to
investigate and, had they done so, they would have known the bylaws were
genuine and [Macias] did not own the $100,000.” (Ibid.) 
 
Here, however, the issue of
whether the subject mirror was purchased from Defendant is not so
straightforward. 
 
Prior to filing the action (filed on 4/1/2020), Bell communicated twice
with Plaintiff’s office saying that she purchased the mirror from HomeGoods.[5] Based thereon, in mid-August 2020,
Plaintiff neither admitted nor denied the requests because of insufficient
information. (Motion p. 8:4-5) Nearly one year
later in January 2021, Bell, during her deposition, stated otherwise: she
may have purchased it from Defendant. 
 
The
fact that this court on an MSJ (filed about two years after the case’s
inception) ruled that Nancy’s Letofsky’s declaration was inadmissible due to
double hearsay does not render the RFA responses compatible with section 2033.420. As observed by the court in Universal
Home Improvement, Inc. v. Robertson (2020) 51 Cal.App.5th 116, 130 (Robertson)
(Opp. p. 5): 
 
[We] are troubled that a defendant can
at the very inception of litigation, at a time when, as best we can
tell, no discovery had taken place, and certainly no deposition, serve
RFAs essentially seeking responses admitting that plaintiff had no case, and
then, if plaintiff ultimately proves unsuccessful, recover costs of proof
attorney fees, as here. This, it could be said, is tantamount to a form of
strict liability: make a claim; deny an early-served RFA that the claim has no
merit; vigorously pursue the claim; lose the claim; and pay. That cannot be the
law. And we will not affirm the award here, for several reasons. (emphasis
added). 
 
To the extent that Defendant asserts
that Robertson is distinguishable, the court disagrees. 
 
In Robertson,
the plaintiff sued defendants for
fraudulent transfer. Following a two-day bench trial, the court held that the
transfer was made in satisfaction of an antecedent debt and entered judgment
for defendants. (Id. at p. 118.) The trial court awarded the defendants’
cost of proof sanctions. In Robertson, the subject RFAs were served “barely
a month” after commencement of the case. (Id. at p. 128.) Several of the
requests asked plaintiffs to admit that they had no claim against a defendant;
plaintiffs’ response denied all six requests. (Id. at p. 129.) In
reversing the trial court’s order (id. at p. 133), the appellate court
focused on the fact that the case was “vigorously contested at trial.” (Id. at
p. 131.) 
 
Here, it cannot be
said that Plaintiff merely hoped or that a “roll of the dice” would have it
prevail on the issue. (Grace v. Mansourian (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 523,
532.) Plaintiff relied on Bell’s statements and relied upon Defendant’s own
lack information. In its March 21, 2021 discovery responses, Defendant served
objections that it denied the distribution of the mirror but did not identify
records or individuals who could support the denial. (Opp. p. 6.) According to
Plaintiff, it was not until March 13, 2023 (nearly three years after RFAs were
propounded) that Plaintiff learned Defendant had no records from the time Bell
purportedly purchased the mirror. (Opp. p. 6.)[6] 
 
What is more, the
standard used under section 2033.420 is whether the party making the denial had
a reasonably entertained good faith belief that it would prevail on the issue at
trial. (Id. at p. 529; see also Reply p. 5, citing Samsky v.
State Farm Mu. Auto Ins. Co. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 517, 526 [“The relevant
question is whether the litigant had a reaonble good faith belief he or she
would prevail on the issue at trial.”], italics added.) Effectively,
such a determination “requires consideration of ‘substantiality’ and
‘credibility’ of evidence offered at trial.” (Spahn v. Richards (2021)
72 Cal.App.5th 208, 219.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff maintains that it sought to
introduce Bell’s statement for impeachment purposes to attack her credibility.
It is for that reason that a denial of an MSJ does not justify a plaintiff’s
failure to admit RFAs (Id,
citing Orange Cnty. Water Dist .v. The Arnold Engineering Co. (2018) 31 Cal.App.5th 96, 131, fn.
13 (Arnold Engingeering)) because on an MSJ issues of credibility are not determined (that is for
the trier of fact, not the court).  
 
To the extent that
Defendant in its motion cites to Barnett v. Penske Truck Leasing (2001)
90 Cal.App.4th 494 for its proposition that cost of proof are recoverable after
summary judgment (Motion p. 11), the court declines to the follow the case for
a couple of reasons. First, the case was decided in 2001, prior to Arnold’s 2018
opinion. Plus, the Barnett case made its ruling based upon the
appellant’s inapposite authority (one case sought fees incurred with proving
negligence at an arbitration hearing; next case dealt with irrelevant
RFAs, and lastly the appellant cited a secondary source). Therefore, absent
authority otherwise, it appears that a 2033.420 motion cannot be made on the
grounds that a defendant merely prevailed on an MSJ. 
 
All in all, it appears both parties did not have sufficient/ironclad
information at the outset of litigation to determine liability. And to fault one
party for genuine lack of sufficient evidence surely cannot be the law. Thus, it cannot be
said that Plaintiff’s case against Defendant since its inception was purely
based upon speculation. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the
foregoing, the motion is DENIED. 
 
 
 


