  Case Number:  22CHCV00778    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  F49 Dept. F-49
Date: 2-6-24
Case # 22CHCV00778
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION TO VACATE AND/OR SET ASIDE REQUEST FOR ENTRY OF
DEFAULT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
Chatsworth Garden Apartments, LLC and Parkville, LLC
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiffs Ivan Medina Cebreros, et al.
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Defendants are
requesting that the Court enter an order setting aside the request for entry of
default entered against them
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
 
This case is
for a breach of warranty of habitability and other related causes of action
filed by Plaintiffs Ivan Medina Cebreros, et al., (Plaintiffs) on September 22,
2022. Defendants Parkville, LLC and Chatsworth Gardens Apartments, LLC
(Defendants) were served on October 12, 2022, and October 14, 2022. On December
8, 2022, a default was entered against Defendants because they had not answered
Plaintiffs’ complaint.
 
From January
through May 2023, the parties met and conferred regarding the default, but were
unable to come to a resolution. Defendants’ current motion to set aside and/or
vacate the default was filed on September 15, 2023. Plaintiffs’ opposition was
filed late on January 25, 2024. Defendant’s reply was filed on January 30,
2024.
 
RULING: Motion
to set aside default is granted.
 
CCP Section
473(b) states as follows: 
 
Notwithstanding any other requirements of
[§ 473(b)] the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made no more
than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied
by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, or neglect, vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk
against his or her client, and which will result in entry of a default
judgment…unless the court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact
caused by the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. 
 
The law favors
hearings on the merits, so any doubts as to the application of section 473
should be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default. (See
Shapiro v. Clark (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1139-1140.)
 
Plaintiffs argue
in their opposition that Defendants’ motion is untimely because it was filed
more than six months after default was entered. Default was entered on December
8, 2022, and Defendants did not file their motion to set aside or vacate
default until September 15, 2023, more than nine months after default was
entered. However, CCP § 473(b) requires that the motion to set aside or vacate
default be filed “no more than six months after entry of judgment.” No judgment
has been entered yet, only the default. The six month time period runs from the
entry of default judgment, not the original default. (Sagasawara v. Newland
(1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 294, 297.) Therefore, Defendants’ motion is timely.
 
Next,
Defendants have provided an attorney affidavit indicating that the failure to
file a timely answer was due to their attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, or
neglect. The declaration from Defendants’ attorney indicates that he had
mis-calendared the date that the answer was due, and that this was the mistake
that led to the failure to file an answer. (Safarian Decl., ¶ 4.)
 
Plaintiffs have
failed to show how they would be prejudiced if the entry of default is set
aside. Further, any doubts regarding the application of Section 473(b) should
be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief. The Court will grant
Defendants’ motion.
 
Plaintiffs also
argue in their opposition that Defendant should be required to pay a penalty for
the relief from default based on CCP § 473(c)(1)(A). However, CCP § 473(c)(2)
states that “However, where the court grants relief from a default or default
judgment pursuant to this section based upon the affidavit of the defaulting
party’s attorney attesting to the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise,
or neglect, the relief shall not be made conditional upon the attorney’s
payment of compensatory legal fees or costs or monetary penalties imposed by
the court or upon compliance with other sanctions ordered by the court.”
 
The Court is
granting relief from default based on Defendants’ attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, or neglect. Therefore, no penalty shall be assessed under CCP §
473(c). However, CCP § 473(b) states that “[t]he court shall, whenever relief
is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault, direct the attorney to
pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or
parties.” Plaintiffs are requesting $1,000.00 in attorney’s fees and costs. (Oronsaye
Decl., ¶ 12.) Plaintiff’s attorney does not, however, indicate how he came up
with this amount. Nonetheless, the Court finds that this is a reasonable amount
given the nature of the motion.
 
Defendants’
motion to set aside and vacate entry of default is granted. Defendants’ answer
is deemed filed as of the date of this order.
 
Defendants’ attorney
is ordered to pay $1,000.00 to Plaintiffs’ counsel.
 
Moving party to
give notice.