 Case Number:  22STCV32178    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
October 3, 2022, Plaintiff Maria G. Orozco (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants Northgate Gonzalez Markets, Inc., and Does 1-25 for general
negligence and premises liability. 
On
January 13, 2023, Defendant Northgate Gonzalez, LLC (erroneously sued as Northgate
Gonzalez Markets, Inc.) (“Defendant”) filed an answer. 
On
December 14, 2023, Defendant filed a motion for summary judgment.  The motion was set for hearing on May 1,
2024.  Defendant rescheduled the hearing
for October 31, 2024.  On October 17,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition.  On
October 25, 2024, Defendant filed a reply. 
Trial
is scheduled for January 29, 2025. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Defendant
asks the Court to grant summary judgment. 
Plaintiff
asks the Court to deny the motion. 
DEFENDANT’S EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS 
          Objections to Allen Declaration:                    Sustained: 1 
Objections
to Avrit Declaration:           Sustained:  6, 7           Overruled: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Summary judgment 
“‘[F]rom
commencement to conclusion, the party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.’”  (LAOSD Asbestos
Cases (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 949, 945, quoting Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar)) “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima
facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material
fact.”  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 850.) 
When
the moving party is a defendant, it must show that the plaintiff cannot
establish at least one element of the cause of action.  (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 853.) “The defendant has shown that the
plaintiff cannot establish at least one element of the cause of action by
showing that the plaintiff does not possess, and cannot reasonably obtain,
needed evidence.”  (Id. at p. 854.) The defendant must
“present evidence, and not simply point out that the plaintiff does not
possess, and cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence.”  (Ibid.)
Thus, “the defendant must ‘support[ ]’ the ‘motion’ with
evidence including ‘affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to
interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice’ must or may
‘be taken.’ [Citation.] The defendant may, but need not, present evidence
that conclusively negates an element of the plaintiff’s cause of action. The
defendant may also present evidence that the plaintiff does not possess, and
cannot reasonably obtain, needed evidence—as through admissions by the
plaintiff following extensive discovery to the effect that he has discovered
nothing.”  (Id. at p. 855, original emphasis.) 
“Supporting
and opposing affidavits or declarations . . . shall set forth admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d).) “Matters which would be
excluded under the rules of evidence if proffered by a witness in a trial as
hearsay, conclusions or impermissible opinions, must be disregarded in
supporting affidavits.”  (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 
In
addition, a party moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must
support the motion with “a separate statement setting forth plainly and
concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed.
Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the
supporting evidence.” (Parkview Villas Assn. v. State Farm Fire &
Casualty Co. (2006) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1209 (Parkview Villas),
quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) The party opposing the motion must
file with the opposition papers “a separate statement that responds to each of
the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating
whether the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed.
The statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material
facts that the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact
contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(b)(3).)  If either party fails to comply with the applicable
separate statement requirement, that failure may in the court’s discretion
constitute a sufficient ground to decide the motion adversely to the offending
party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (b)(1), (3).)  
In
ruling on the motion, the court must consider all the evidence and all the
inferences reasonably drawn from it and must view such evidence and
inferences in the light most favorable to the opposing
party.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 843.) 
B.   Negligence and premises liability 
“The
elements of a negligence claim and a premises liability claim are the same: a
legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in
injury.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1159.) 
“ ‘
“Generally, one owes a duty of ordinary care not to cause an unreasonable risk
of harm to others....” ' [Citation.]” (Salinas v. Martin (2008) 166
Cal.App.4th 404, 411 (Salinas), quoting Padilla v. Rodas (2008)
160 Cal.App.4th 742, 747 (Padilla).) “ ‘Civil Code section 1714 sets
forth the general duty of a property owner toward others: “Everyone is
responsible, not only for the result of his or her willful acts, but also for
an injury occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in
the management of his or her property or person, except so far as the latter
has, willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or
herself.” The application of this provision entails an inquiry as to “whether
in the management of his property he has acted as a reasonable [person] in view
of the probability of injury to others....” [Citations.]’ ” (Id. at pp.
411-412, quoting Laico v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2004) 123 Cal.App.4th
649, 659 (Laico).) “A landowner ‘ “ ‘has an affirmative duty to exercise
ordinary care to keep the premises in a reasonably safe condition, and
therefore must inspect them or take other proper means to ascertain their
condition. And if, by the exercise of reasonable care, he would have discovered
the dangerous condition, he is liable.’ ” ’ [Citation.]’ ” (Id. at p.
412, quoting Portillo v. Aiassa (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1134.) 
“ ‘An
exception to the statutory rule of liability for failure to use ordinary care
in the management of one's property requires clear support in public policy.’ ”
(Salinas, supra, 166 Cal.App.4th at p.
412, quoting Laico, supra, 123 Cal.App.4th at pp. 659–660.) “
‘ “In the case of a landowner's liability for injuries to persons on the
property, the determination of whether a duty exists, ‘involves the balancing
of a number of considerations; the major ones are the foreseeability of harm to
the plaintiff, the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury, the
closeness of the connection between the defendant's conduct and the injury
suffered, the moral blame attached to the defendant's conduct, the policy of
preventing future harm, the extent of the burden to the defendant and the
consequences to the community of imposing a duty to exercise care with
resulting liability for breach, and the availability, cost, and prevalence of
insurance for the risk involved.’ [Citations.]” [Citation.]’ ” (Ibid.,
quoting Rinehart v. Boys & Girls Club of Chula Vista (2005) 133
Cal.App.4th 419, 430.) “ ‘Foreseeability and the extent of the burden to the
defendant are ordinarily the crucial considerations, but in a given case one or
more of the other [Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108] factors
may be determinative of the duty analysis.’ ” (Ibid., quoting Castaneda
v. Olsher (2007) 41 Cal.4th 1205, 1213.) “The existence and scope of a
defendant's duty is a question of law for the court's resolution.” (Ibid.,
citing Shin v. Ahn (2007) 42 Cal.4th 482, 488; Padilla, supra,
160 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
The
complaint alleges the following: 
Negligence
claim:  On November 15, 2020, Defendants
negligently managed, owned, maintained, operated, controlled, designed and/or
safeguarded the entrance of the premises located at 425 S. Soto Street, Los
Angeles, CA 90033 in an unreasonable and unsafe manner, causing Plaintiff to
slip and fall on a slippery substance that had accumulated on the floor of
Defendant’s premises, where Plaintiff was shopping.  Defendants knew or should have known about the
dangerous condition.  Defendant failed to
barricade the area and/or warn of the hazardous condition.  The conduct of Defendants and/or their
employees was below the standard of care and caused Plaintiff’s injuries. 
Premises
liability claim:  On November 15, 2020,
Defendants negligently, carelessly, recklessly, and/or wantonly managed, owned,
maintained, operated, controlled and safeguarded the premises located at 425 S.
Soto Street, Los Angeles, CA 90033, causing a slippery substance to accumulate
on the floor which caused a hazard to foot traffic. Defendant knew or should
have known about the dangerous condition on the premises. Defendant failed to
barricade the area and failed to warn of the hazardous condition on the
premise. Defendants improperly and/or incorrectly allowed foot traffic in the
area where the dangerous condition existed, rendering the area dangerous and
causing Plaintiff’s injuries. 
B.   Undisputed facts 
On November 15, 2020, at approximately 6:07:41, Plaintiff
slipped and fell in aisle number 6 (frozen) located inside Defendant's store located at 425 S. Soto Street, Los Angeles, CA 90033.  Plaintiff alleges she slipped and fell on a
slippery green substance on the floor that she described as "green
leafs" at her deposition. 
Defendant's store policy requires a formal sweep and
inspection of the entire store every sixty minutes conducted by authorized
store personnel walking the store aisles inspecting the entire sales floor for
any spills or foreign matter.  Defendant's
store policy also requires that, if a spill or foreign substance is discovered
on the sales floor, the area must be blocked off or barricaded for the safety
of customers and associates until the spill is cleaned up or the foreign
substance is eliminated. 
While carrying out the floor sweeps and inspections,
which are part of what is called the Gleason inspection system, the authorized
store personnel must touch Gleason buttons which are located in various aisles
throughout the store as they follow a pre-set inspection route. 
An in-store video shows the events leading to the
subject incident and the subject incident itself. The recording system cannot
be edited or overwritten. 
The video shows that Defendant's employee entered
aisle number 6 at 6:00:55 to conduct a sweep and inspection.  The employee reached the end of aisle 6 at
approximately 6:01:10 p.m. and stayed there until approximately 6:01:40.  About 12 seconds after the employee finished
the inspection, a man walked through the area without incident.   
From 6:03:30 to 6:03:56, a customer walked repeatedly through the area without any problems.   From
6:04:38 to 6:04:45, five customers walked down aisle 6 and through the same area.
 At 6:05:34, a woman walked through the area
without incident. From 6:06:34 to 6:06:36, two people walked through the
area without incident.  At 6:07:09, a
man walked through the area. 
At 6:07:40, Plaintiff entered aisle 6.  At 6:07:41, approximately six minutes after
Defendant's employee completed his inspection and sweep, Plaintiff’s right foot slipped and she fell
to the ground in the area Defendant's employee had inspected and swept. 
After Plaintiff fell, a green leafy material was located
immediately next to Plaintiff's extended right foot and on the heel of
Plaintiff’s right shoe. 
C.   Defendant has carried its initial summary judgment
burden 
Citing
Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1200 (Ortega), Defendant
argues that it is entitled to summary judgment because it lacked actual or
constructive notice of any dangerous condition on the floor where Plaintiff
fell.  In Ortega, the Supreme
Court held that when the plaintiff has no evidence of the source of the
dangerous condition or the length of time it existed, the plaintiff may rely
solely on the owner’s failure to inspect the premises within a reasonable
period of time in order to establish an inference that the defective condition
existed long enough for a reasonable person exercising ordinary care to have
discovered and remedied it.  “ ‘The
requirement of actual or constructive knowledge is merely a means of applying
the general rule . . . that the proprietor may be liable if he knew or by the
exercise of reasonable care could have discovered the dangerous condition . . .
.’ ” (Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at p. 1203, quoting Bridgman
v. Safeway Stores, Inc. (1960) 53 Cal.2d 443, 447.)  But “if a store owner has taken care in the
discharge of its duty, by inspecting its premises in a reasonable manner, then
no breach will be found even if a plaintiff does suffer injury.”  (Id. at p. 1211.) 
The
undisputed facts show that Defendant’s employee inspected and swept aisle 6 about
six minutes before Plaintiff’s fall and Plaintiff did not know how the green
leafy material got on the floor.  The
Court finds that Defendant has carried its initial burden of showing the green
leafy material was not on the floor long enough for Defendant to have
discovered it.  The burden shifts to
Plaintiff. 
D.   Plaintiff has raised a triable issue of fact 
Plaintiff
has submitted evidence that creates a triable issue of material fact regarding
(1) whether Defendant’s policy on inspection and sweeps was reasonable under
the circumstances, (2) whether Defendant’s employee’s inspection and sweep were
reasonable under the circumstances, and (3) whether the green leafy material was
on the floor long enough to give Defendant constructive notice.  The evidence includes the declaration of Brad
Avrit, paragraphs 7-13.  Avrit opines,
among other things, that the employee who inspected and swept aisle 6 dislodged
the green leafy material on which Plaintiff fell from his broom onto the floor,
creating the dangerous condition. 
Defendant
argues that Avrit’s description of the events recorded in the video of the
incident is inaccurate and speculative.  Although
Defendant has submitted a “flash drive” containing the video for the Court to
review, the Court has not been able to view the flash drive on the Court’s
computer.  Nonetheless, Defendant has
submitted no declarations to counter Avrit’s declaration and the Court has reviewed
the still photographs taken from the video, which Defendant submitted in
support of its motion.  On these facts,
the Court does not believe it is necessary to review the video. 
The
Court denies Defendant’s motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court DENIES Defendant Northgate Gonzalez, LLC’s motion for summary judgment. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.