 Case Number:  23STCV20423    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
August 25, 2023, Plaintiff Michael Rebollo (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants City of Los Angeles (“City”), State of California, and Does
1-100 for (1) premises liability based on dangerous condition of public
property, negligence, and willful failure to warn and (2) general negligence. 
On
November 21, 2023, the City filed an answer. 
On
December 12, 2023, Defendant The People of the State of
California, acting by and through the Department of Transportation, erroneously
named as State of California (“State”), filed a cross-complaint against
Cross-Defendants City and Roes 1-50 for express indemnity, equitable indemnity,
apportionment of fault, and declaratory relief. 
On
January 12, 2024, the City filed an answer to the State’s cross-complaint and a
cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants State and Moes 1-10 for apportionment
of fault, indemnification, and declaratory relief. On March 21, 2024, the State
filed an answer to the City’s cross-complaint. 
On
February 15, 2024, the Court sustained the State’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s
second cause of action for general negligence with 30 days leave to amend. In
the alternative, the Court granted the State’s motion to strike Plaintiff’s
second cause of action for general negligence with 30 days leave to amend. 
On
March 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Defendants
City, State, and Does 1-100 for general negligence and premises liability. 
On June 18, 2024, the Court (1) overruled the State’s
demurrer to the premises liability claim in the first amended complaint, (2)
sustained the State’s demurrer to the general
negligence claim with 30 days leave to amend, and (3) granted the State’s
motion to strike the sentence “Additionally, Defendants City of Los Angeles and
State of California failed to maintain the roadway and act as reasonably
prudent property owners pursuant to Gov. Code Section 815.2, 815.4, and/or 820”
from the premises liability claim. 
On
August 7, 2024, the State filed a motion for leave to file a first amended
cross-complaint.  No party has opposed
the motion. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for February 21, 2025. 
PARTY'S REQUEST 
The
State asks the Court for leave to file a first amended cross-complaint. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).) 
“Any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 576; see Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) 
“ ‘While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. [Citations.] And it is a rare case
in which “a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.” [Citations.] If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion. [Citations.]’ ”  (Redevelopment
Agency v. Herrold (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 1024, 1031, quoting Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
“[I]t
is an abuse of discretion to deny leave to amend where the opposing party was
not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.” (Kittredge Sports Co. v.
Superior Court (1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 (Kittredge).)  “Prejudice exists where the amendment would
result in a delay of trial, along with loss of critical evidence, added costs
of preparation, increased burden of discovery, etc.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 6:656, p. 6-193 (Cal.
Practice Guide).) 
“Ordinarily,
the judge will not consider the validity of the proposed amended pleading in
deciding whether to grant leave to amend. . . . After leave to amend is
granted, the opposing party will have the opportunity to attack the validity of
the amended pleading.” (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 6:644, pp. 6-189
to 6-190.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   Plaintiff’s first amended complaint 
Following
the Court’s June 18, 2024 order, Plaintiff’s first amended complaint alleges in
part: 
On
July 24, 2021, Plaintiff was operating an electrically motorized skateboard on
West Olympic Boulevard under the 110 Freeway overpass in Los Angeles,
California. As he was travelling down the roadway, Plaintiff encountered a
pothole and/or uneven/unlevel portion of the roadway that caused him to be
thrown from his board and injured. The uneven/unlevel portion of the roadway
constituted a dangerous condition of public property under Government Code
section 835 which the City and State knew or should have known about.
B.   The State’s cross-complaint
  The State’s
cross-complaint filed December 12, 2023 alleges in part: 
On
or about January 1, 2005, the City and the State entered into a contract titled
“Agreement for Maintenance of State Highways in the City of Los Angeles”
(“Agreement”).  Under the Agreement, the City
agreed to maintain pedestrian and vehicular undercrossings of elevated state
freeways, including the traveled way, shoulders, curbs, and sidewalks within
the City. 
The City
exclusively maintained the roadway of W. Olympic Boulevard underneath the I-110
Freeway overpass.  The State had no role
or involvement in the maintenance of the roadway of W. Olympic Boulevard
underneath the I-110 Freeway overpass. 
Under
the Agreement, the City is required to hold harmless, indemnify, and defend the
State. The Agreement states in Paragraph X: 
“It is understood and agreed that neither STATE nor
any of its officers or employees are responsible for any damage or liability .
. . occurring by reason of anything done or omitted to be done by CITY under or
in connection with any work, authority or jurisdiction delegated to CITY under
this Agreement. It is understood and agreed that, pursuant to Government Code
Section 895.4, CITY shall defend, indemnify and hold harmless STATE and all of
its officers and employees from all claims, suits or actions of every name,
kind and description brought for or in
account of injuries to or death of any person or damage to property resulting
from anything done or omitted to be done by CITY under or in connection with
any work, authority or jurisdiction delegated to CITY under this Agreement.” 
The
State has demanded that the City honor its obligation under the Agreement and
indemnify, defend and hold the State harmless from Plaintiff’s action.  Contending that it has no legal
responsibility, obligation, or liability under the Agreement, the City has not
complied with the State’s demand.  The
State has been required to appear and defend itself against Plaintiff’s
complaint and to incur expenses to defend itself. 
The
State's original cross-complaint asserts claims against the City and Roes 1-50 for express indemnity, equitable indemnity, apportionment
of fault, and declaratory relief. 
C.   The State’s motion to file a first amended cross-complaint 
The
State asks the Court for leave to amend its cross-complaint (1) to include a claim
for breach of contract and (2) to add language alleging that the State is
exempt from the requirement of submitting a government claim to the City under
the Government Claims Act. 
The
Court finds that the proposed amendments are based on the same facts alleged in
the original cross-complaint and would not prejudice the City.  Therefore, the Court grants the State’s
motion for leave to file a first amended cross-complaint. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion for leave to file an amended
cross-complaint filed by Defendant The People of the State of California,
acting by and through the Department of Transportation, erroneously named as
State of California. 
Defendant The People of the State of California,
acting by and through the Department of Transportation, erroneously named as
State of California, is ordered to file and serve its first amended cross-complaint within 10 days of the hearing on this motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.