 Case Number:  23STCV03828    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
February 22, 2023, Plaintiff S.B. (“Plaintiff”), by and through his guardian ad
litem La Shae Bowen, filed this action against Defendants Los Angeles Unified
School District (“District”), Principal Gabriel Arreguin (“Arreguin”), and Does
1-20 for negligent supervision and general negligence. 
On
March 10, 2023, the Court appointed La Shae Bowen to serve as Plaintiff’s
guardian ad litem. 
On
May 15, 2023, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint. 
On
June 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint against the District,
Arreguin, and Does 1-20 for negligent supervision, negligence, and punitive
damages. 
On
August 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed a third amended complaint against the
District, Arreguin, and Does 1-20 for negligent supervision and negligence. 
On
August 28, 2023, the District and Arreguin (“Defendants”) filed an answer to
the third amended complaint. 
On September
9, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel Eric Edward Menoyo and The
Firm LA, P.C., filed a motion to be relieved as counsel. The motion was set
for hearing on October 31, 2024. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for February 14, 2025. 
COUNSEL’S REQUEST 
Plaintiff’s
counsel Eric Edward Menoyo and The Firm LA, P.C., ask to be relieved as
counsel. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 284 provides: 
“The attorney in an action or special proceeding may
be changed at any time before or after judgment or final determination as
follows: 
1.   “Upon the
consent of both client and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered upon the
minutes; 
2.   “Upon the
order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after
notice from one to the other.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 284.) 
California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, provides: 
“(a) Notice 
“A notice of motion and motion to be relieved as
counsel under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) must be directed to the
client and must be made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel-Civil (form MC-051). 
“(b) Memorandum 
“Notwithstanding any other rule of court, no
memorandum is required to be filed or served with a motion to be relieved as
counsel. 
“(c) Declaration 
“The motion to be relieved as counsel must be
accompanied by a declaration on the Declaration in Support of Attorney's Motion
to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form MC-052). The declaration must state in
general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship why a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section
284(2) is brought instead of filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure
section 284(1). 
“(d) Service 
“The notice of motion and motion, the declaration, and
the proposed order must be served on the client and on all other parties who
have appeared in the case. The notice may be by personal service, electronic
service, or mail. 
“(1) If the notice is served on the client by mail
under Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a
declaration stating facts showing that either: 
“(A) The service address is the current residence or
business address of the client; or 
“(B) The service address is the last known residence
or business address of the client and the attorney has been unable to locate a
more current address after making reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days
before the filing of the motion to be relieved. 
“(2) If the notice is served on the client by
electronic service under Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6 and rule 2.251,
it must be accompanied by a declaration stating that the electronic service
address is the client's current electronic service address. 
“As used in this rule, ‘current’ means that the
address was confirmed within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be
relieved. Merely demonstrating that the notice was sent to the client's last
known address and was not returned or no electronic delivery failure message
was received is not, by itself, sufficient to demonstrate that the address is
current. If the service is by mail, Code of Civil Procedure section 1011(b)
applies. 
“(e) Order 
“The proposed order relieving counsel must be prepared
on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel-Civil (form
MC-053) and must be lodged with the court with the moving papers. The order
must specify all hearing dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including
the date of trial, if known. If no hearing date is presently scheduled, the
court may set one and specify the date in the order. After the order is signed,
a copy of the signed order must be served on the client and on all parties that
have appeared in the case. The court may delay the effective date of the order
relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on the
client has been filed with the court.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362.) 
DISCUSSION 
Plaintiff’s counsel Eric Edward Menoyo and The Firm LA, P.C., have filed and served the required paperwork and provided the necessary
information to support their motion to be relieved as counsel.  The Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS the motion to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff S.B., by and through his guardian ad litem La Shae Bowen, filed by Eric Edward Menoyo and The Firm LA, P.C., on September
9, 2024.  Counsel will be relieved upon
filing proof of service on Plaintiff S.B., by and through his
guardian ad litem La Shae Bowen, of the Order Granting Attorney’s Motion to Be
Relieved as Counsel--Civil (Judicial Council form MC-053). 
Eric
Edward Menoyo and The Firm LA, P.C., are ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Eric
Edward Menoyo and The Firm LA, P.C., are ordered to file the proof of service
of this ruling with the Court within five days.