 Case Number:  22STCV25084    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      April 30, 2024                                                TRIAL DATE:   July 22, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Fred Goldstein v. Joshua Driskell, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV25084
 





















 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Fred Goldstein 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendants Joshua
Driskell, et al.
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION

 
            This is a legal malpractice action.  Plaintiff, Fred Goldstein, a self-represented
litigant, alleges that he retained Defendants, Joshua Driskell, Primuth
Driskell & Terzian LLP, and Lagerlof LLP, in November 2018 to represent
Plaintiff in the underlying probate action filed as 18STPB11264 in the County
of Los Angeles.  
 
On July 26, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative Third
Amended Complaint (TAC) alleging causes of action for (1) Legal
Malpractice/Negligence, (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duties, (3) Breach of the
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, and (4) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress.
 
Defendants demurred to the TAC.  On February 9, 2024, the court overruled
Defendants’ demurrer to the first, second, and third causes of action, and
sustained the demurrer to the fourth cause of action without leave to amend.
 
On February 14, 2024, Defendants filed their Answer to the
TAC.  On February 26, 2024, Defendants
filed their First Amended Answer.  The
First Amended Answer asserts a general denial and 27 affirmative defenses.
 
On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed an ex parte application
for an extension of time to file a demurrer and motion to strike as to Defendants’
First Amended Answer.  The court granted
the ex parte application on March 5, 2024. 
Plaintiff was given until March 12, 2024 to file the pleadings.
 
On March 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed this Demurrer and Motion
to Strike as to all affirmative defenses asserted in the First Amended Answer.  
 
Defendants filed oppositions.  Plaintiff filed replies.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
 
            A verified complaint must be denied
positively or according to information and belief.¿ A general denial is
effective to controvert all material allegations of an unverified complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.30, subd. (d).)¿ Anything
less than a general denial of the whole complaint is a “qualified” or
“specific” denial.¿ A defendant can direct his or her denials to specific
sentences, paragraphs, of parts of the complaint.¿ Although not widely used, a
defendant can also effectively deny allegations in the complaint by alleging
contrary or inconsistent facts.¿ 
 
In addition to
denials, the answer should contain any and all affirmative defenses or
objections to the complaint that defendant may have, and that would otherwise
not be in issue under a simple denial.¿ Such defenses or objections are “new
matter.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.30, subd. (b).)¿ Generally, a defendant bears
the burden of proving “new matter” and, as such, must be specifically pleaded
in the answer.¿ (California Academy of Sciences v. County of Fresno
(1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 1436, 1442.)¿ “The phrase ‘new matter’ refers to
something relied on by a defendant which is not put in issue by the
plaintiff.”¿ (Walsh v. West Valley Mission Community College District
(1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1532, 1546.)¿ Where the answer sets forth facts showing
some essential allegation of the complaint is not true, such facts are not new
matters but are denials.¿ (Ibid.)¿¿¿ 
 
The same pleading
of “ultimate facts” rather than evidentiary matter or legal conclusions is
required as in pleading a complaint.¿ The answer must aver facts as carefully
and with as much detail as the facts which constitute the cause of action and
which are alleged in the complaint.¿ (FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 384.)¿ The various affirmative defenses must be
separately stated and must refer to the causes of action to which they relate
“in a manner by which they may be intelligently distinguished.”¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., § 431.30, subd. (g).)¿ Defenses must be pleaded in the nature of “yes,
the allegations [of the complaint] are true, but . . .”¿ (FPI Development,
Inc., supra, 231 Cal.App.3d at p. 383.)¿ In pleading the Statute of
Limitations it is not necessary to state the facts showing the defense, but it
may be stated generally that the cause of action is barred by the provisions of
Section ____ (giving the number of the section and subdivision thereof, if it
is so divided, relied upon) of The Code of Civil Procedure; and if such
allegation be controverted, the party pleading must establish, on the trial,
the facts showing that the cause of action is so barred.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
458.) 
 
III.      DISCUSSION 
 
            A.  Timeliness 
 
            Plaintiff’s demurrer and motion to
strike are untimely.  Typically, a party
who has filed a complaint may, within 10 days after service of the answer to
his pleading, demur to the answer.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.40, subd. (b).)¿ “A
motion to strike an answer may be brought “within the time allowed to respond
to a pleading” (CCP § 435(b)(1)). Presumably, because a motion to strike and a
demurrer must be brought at the same time, a motion to strike must be filed
within 10 days after service of the answer. [CCP § 435(b); CRC 3.1322(b)]”  (Weil & Brown, Civ. Pro. Before Trial
(The Rutter Group 2023) ¶ 7:166.1.)  
 
            Here, Defendants filed and served their
First Amended Answer on February 26, 2024. 
On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed an ex parte application seeking an
extension of time to file these pleadings. 
The court granted the ex parte application on March 5, 2024, and gave
Plaintiff until March 12, 2024 to file the Demurrer and Motion to Strike.  Plaintiff served his Demurrer and Motion to Strike
on March 12, 2024, but did not file his Demurrer and Motion to Strike with the
court until March 13, 2024.  The filings
are untimely.  The court, however, exercises
its discretion to consider the merits of Plaintiff’s Demurrer and Motion to
Strike.
 
            B. 
Meet and Confer
 
            Before filing a demurrer or motion to strike, the demurring/moving
party must meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed
the pleading that is subject to the demurrer or motion to strike for the
purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve
the objections to be raised in the demurrer or motion to strike.¿ (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 430.41, subd. (a); 435.5, subd (a).)¿  Plaintiff has satisfied the meet and confer
requirement.¿ (Declaration of Fred Goldstein, ¶¶ 2-7.)
 
            C.  Analysis
 
            Affirmative defenses are a “new matter.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 431.30, subd. (b).  “The phrase
‘new matter’ refers to something relied on by a defendant which is not put in
issue by the plaintiff.”  (Walsh, supra, 66 Cal.App.4th at
p. 1546.) The same pleading of “ultimate facts” rather than evidentiary matter
or legal conclusions is required as in pleading a complaint.  The answer
must aver facts as carefully and with as much detail as the facts which
constitute the cause of action and which are alleged in the complaint.  (FPI
Development, Inc., supra, 231 Cal.App.3d at p. 384.)  The
various affirmative defenses must be separately stated and must refer to the
causes of action to which they relate “in a manner by which they may be
intelligently distinguished.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.30, subd. (g).)  
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendants’ affirmative defenses fail
to state facts sufficient to constitute a defense.  The court agrees.
            
With the exception of the Seventh Affirmative Defense (Judicial
Estoppel)[1]
and Twenty-First Affirmative Defense (Statute of Limitations), a review of Defendants’
affirmative defenses supports Plaintiff’s position.  Defendants’ affirmative
defenses do not adhere to the style of “yes, but” as required to state an
affirmative defense.  Indeed, Defendants’ remaining affirmative
defenses do not allege any facts.  No new
material is introduced.  The defenses are
boilerplate.
 
Defendants contend they may assert their affirmative
defenses on information and belief because Plaintiff has not propounded
discovery or responded to Defendants’ discovery.  The argument, however, is unsupported by any
authority.  This is not the standard for
determining whether an affirmative defense is well-pled or whether it is
subject to demurrer.  If Defendants lack facts to support an affirmative
defense, Defendants should not plead that defense unless and until learning of
facts to support the application of the defense.  As noted above, an affirmative
defense is not well-pled unless it includes ultimate facts to support the
assertion of the same.   
 
VI.       CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiff’s Demurrer to Affirmative Defenses Nos. 1-6, 8-20,
and 22-27 of the First Amended Answer is SUSTAINED.  
 
Plaintiff’s Demurrer to Affirmative  Defenses Nos. 7 and 21 is OVERRULED. 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion to Strike is MOOT.
 
Defendants are ordered to serve and file their Second
Amended Answer within 30 days of this order.
 
Clerk of the court to give notice.  
 
 
Dated:   April 30, 2024                                    




¿ 


¿¿¿ 




¿ 


¿ Kerry Bensinger¿¿ 
¿ Judge of the Superior Court¿ 




 
 
 
            


