 Case Number:  24STCP00797    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April
30, 2024                                                TRIAL DATE:  Not
set
                                                           
CASE:                         Alprop LLC v. Oasis
AG LLC
 
CASE NO.:                 24STCP00797
 





















 
PETITION
FOR AN ORDER TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
      


 
MOVING PARTY:               Petitioner
Alprop LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
            This is a contract dispute.  Petitioner Alprop LLC (“Alprop”) is the owner
of a warehouse.  Alprop leased the
warehouse to Respondent Oasis AG LLC (“Oasis”) for the use of medical cannabis
growth operations.  The parties entered
into a written contract.  Thereafter,
Oasis defaulted on the rent and facility fee payments.  Alprop attempted to resolve the dispute without
resorting to arbitration.  Oasis did not
respond.  Alprop later opened an
arbitration case with JAMS as provided under the parties’ agreement.  However, Oasis did not respond to any notice
or correspondence from JAMS to participate in the arbitration proceedings.  
On March 14, 2024, Alprop filed this Petition for
an Order to Compel Arbitration (the “Petition”).
Alprop seeks an order appointing an arbitrator. 

            On March 27, 2024, Alprop
filed a notice of hearing for its Petition.
            No opposition has been
filed.
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
            Under both the Federal
Arbitration Act and California law, arbitration agreements are valid,
irrevocable, and enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or
equity for voiding a contract.  (Winter
v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.)  The party moving to compel arbitration must
establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement between the parties.
 (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.)  In ruling on a motion to compel arbitration,
the court must first determine whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate
the dispute, and general principles of California contract law help guide the
court in making this determination. (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care
Center (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.)¿ 
            Once petitioners
allege that an arbitration agreement exists, the burden shifts to respondents
to prove the falsity of the purported agreement, and no evidence or
authentication is required to find the arbitration agreement exists.  (See Condee v. Longwood Mgt. Corp. (2001)
88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.) However, if the existence of the agreement is
challenged, “petitioner bears the burden of proving [the arbitration
agreement's] existence by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Rosenthal v.
Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413; see also Espejo
v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th
1047, 1058-1060.)¿¿¿ 
            “With respect to the moving
party's burden to provide evidence of the¿existence¿of an agreement to
arbitrate, it is generally sufficient for that party to present a copy of the
contract to the court.” (Condee, supra, 88 Cal.App.4th at p. 218;
see also Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330 [“A petition to compel arbitration or
to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure sections 1281.2 and
1281.4 must state, in addition to other required allegations, the provisions of
the written agreement and the paragraph that provides for arbitration. The
provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must be physically or
electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by reference”].) Once
such a document is presented to the court, the burden shifts to the party
opposing the motion to compel, who may present any challenges to the
enforcement of the agreement and evidence in support of those challenges.
[Citation]” (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC¿(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th
1152, 1160.)¿ 
III.       DISSCUSSION
            Petitioner moves for an
order (1) compelling arbitration of Petitioner’s claims in accordance with the
terms of the parties’ written agreement to arbitrate, and (2) appointing an
arbitrator.
            Existence of Arbitration
Agreement¿ 
            Section 17.2 of the
parties’ Management Services Agreement states:  
Arbitration. If the parties do not agree on a
written resolution of a Dispute pursuant to the procedures set forth in Section
17.1 by the end of the First Meeting, then, except as otherwise provided in
this Agreement, any dispute shall be submitted to binding arbitration in Los
Angeles County, California by a single arbitrator mutually chosen by the
parties in writing, who shall be a retired judge or litigator with ten (10) years
or more of experience with claims similar to the Dispute (provided, that lack of
experience with claims involving the cannabis industry shall not be a cause for
disqualification). If the parties cannot agree on an arbitrator, JAMS shall
provide a list of six (6) candidates, and each party shall take turns striking
candidates (beginning with the party who received the notice of arbitration
until there is a single arbitrator. The costs of the arbitration, including any
JAMS administration fee, the arbitrator's fee, and costs for the use of facilities
during the hearings, shall be born equally by the parties to the arbitration;
provided that all costs and expenses of the dispute, including arbitrator fees
and reasonable attorneys' fees and costs incurred, shall be awarded to the prevailing
or most prevailing party as determined by the arbitrator. The arbitrator shall
not have any power to alter, amend, modify or change any of the terms of this
Agreement nor to grant any remedy which is either prohibited by the terms of
this Agreement, or not available in a court of law. The arbitrator shall render
a written opinion not later than thirty (30) days after conclusion of the
arbitration proceedings setting forth a determination of award, if any, and the
basis or awarding (or not awarding) the relief sought by the parties, including
findings of fact and, conclusions of law. If JAMS refuses to arbitrate a
Dispute, the parties shall cooperate in good faith to find an alternative
arbitrator reasonably acceptable to the parties in writing. An arbitrator
exceeds his or her powers by voiding or refusing to enforce any contracts or
arbitration agreements between Parties based solely on the cannabis-related
nature of the contract. 
(Afar Decl., Exh. A.) 
            The court finds that
Petitioner has met its burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement between the parties.¿  Respondent
did not file an opposition to the Petition.  As such, Respondent fails to present any evidence
or argument in support of a defense to the Petition.
            Appointment of
Arbitrator  
“In the absence of an agreed method [to appoint an
arbitrator], or if the agreed method fails or for any reason cannot be followed
... the court, on petition of a party to the arbitration agreement shall
appoint the arbitrator.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 1281.6)  Given Respondent’s failure to
respond to any notice or correspondence from JAMS to participate in the
selection of an arbitrator, JAMS may select the arbitrator to be appointed by
the court.  
IV.       CONCLUSION 
            The unopposed Petition for
an Order to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED.¿ JAMS is authorized to select the
arbitrator consistent with JAMS guidelines.
            The court sets a Status Conference
re: Arbitration for October 25, 2024, at 9:00 am.  
            Petitioner to give Notice.
Dated:   April 30, 2023                                   




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 