


[1] In reply, Banks argues that Kwatinetz violated the January 4, 2022, protective
order, and that she did not receive a USB drive which was lodged with the court
in support of Kwatinetz’s opposition.  Each
contention lacks merit.  Banks’s objects
to Kwatinetz’s use of the transcript from Banks’s deposition testimony.  The pages of the transcript are marked as
“Confidential”.  The transcript is
attached to the Sorrell Declaration and is quoted at Paragraphs 3 and 4.  Banks contends the transcript is subject to
the January 4, 2022, protective order.  In
response, Plaintiffs’ counsel details in a supplemental declaration that the
transcript was not timely designated as confidential, Kwatinetz objected to the
designation, and Banks did not file a motion to enforce the designation. (See
Sorrell Suppl. Decl. ¶¶ 2-9.)  Banks’s
current, limited-scope counsel appears to have acknowledged the mis-designation
of the transcript in email correspondence with Plaintiffs’ counsel. Based upon
the foregoing, the court finds the transcript is not subject to the protective
order.  
 
As to Banks’s second contention, Plaintiffs’ counsel
confirms that the USB drive was properly and timely served by Federal Express
on April 17, 2023.  (Sorrell Suppl. Decl.
¶¶ 12-13.)  Moreover, even if Banks did
not receive the USB drive, the video contained within the USB drive is also
directly accessible through a hyperlink included in paragraph 5 of Kwatinetz’s
declaration.  (Sorrell Suppl. Decl. ¶ 14;
see also Kwatinetz Decl. ¶ 5.)  
 
Banks has asserted a general objection to the use of
the transcript and USB drive.  For the
foregoing reasons, the objections are OVERRULED.


[2]  Banks
includes paragraph 19 in her notice.  In
paragraph 19, Plaintiff states that Banks posted a photograph of herself standing
near Kwatinetz’s house.  The photograph
was posted on Instagram.  Plaintiff
alleges the photograph was intended to reinforce her threats.  Banks does not discuss paragraph 19 in her
motion nor provide any analysis with respect to the photograph.  Because Banks does not address it, the court does
not include it in the analysis.  


[3] See Declaration of Paymon John
Fava, paragraph 2, 3.  The FAC at
footnote one states that “a number of articles in the media have noted Banks’
propensity to engage in feuds with prominent people, from for [sic] her feuds
than she does for her music. Banks has had fueds with people including Cardi B,
Kim Kardashian, Lady Gaga, T.I., Kendrick Lamar, Pharrell Williams, Rihanna,
Beyonce, Eminem, RuPaul and Dave Chappelle, among many others.”  The footnote then goes on to list several online
sources that cover these “feuds.”.   

