 Case Number:  22STCV24376    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April
30, 2024                                    TRIAL
DATE:  January 27, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Kimberly Echeverria v. Elite Veterinary Corporation
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV24376





















 
PLAINTIFF
KIMBERLY ECHEVERRIA’S MOTION TO QUASH 
EMPLOYMENT
RECORD SUBPOENA



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Kimberly Echeverria 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant Elite
Veterinary Corporation dba Animal Medical Center of the Antelope Valley
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff Kimberly Echeverria (“Echeverria” or “Plaintiff”)
began working for Elite Veterinary Corporation (“Elite Veterinary”) in July
2021.  Echeverria later became
pregnant.  During her pregnancy,
Echeverria suffered extreme morning illness which forced her to miss work or
caused her to begin work later than her scheduled shift.  Because of her need for intermittent
pregnancy leave and modest accommodation, Elite Veterinary reduced her hours
and allegedly wrongfully terminated her. 
Since then, Echeverria has been unable to obtain employment in another
veterinary clinic.
 
On October 26, 2022, Echeverria filed a Complaint against
Elite Veterinary, and Does 1 through 10, for (1) Pregnancy/Gender
Discrimination, (2) Failure to Prevent Discrimination, (3) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress, (4) Denial of Pregnancy Disability Leave
Rights, (5) Failure to Reasonably Accommodate, (6) Failure to Engage in a Good
Faith Interactive Process, and (7) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public
Policy.  Echeverria later amended the
Complaint naming Elite Veterinary’s owner, Dr. David Lahijaniha (“Dr. David”), as
Doe 1.  
 
            On February
21, 2024, Echeverria filed this motion to quash Elite Veterinary’s subpoena directed
to Echeverria’s prior employer, North Valley Veterinary Clinic, Inc. (“North
Valley”).  Echeverria does not seek
sanctions.
 
            Elite
Veterinary filed an opposition.  Echeverria
replied. 
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
If a subpoena requires the
attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically
stored information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands such as
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)¿ 
III.       DISCUSSION
A. 
Elite Veterinary’s Subpoena to North Valley
1.     
All documents that relate to any warning(s) you gave
Kimberly Echeverria for being late to work during her employment with you; 
2.     
All documents that reflect the date(s) when Kimberly
Echeverria was late to work during her employment with you; 
3.     
All documents that relate to any warning(s) you gave
Kimberly Echeverria for not showing up for her scheduled shifts or “no
calling/no showing” during her employment with you; 
4.     
All documents that reflect the date(s) that Kimberly
Echeverria failed to report for her schedule shift(s) or “no called/no showed” during
her employment with you; 
5.     
All documents that reflect the reason(s) you terminated
Kimberly Echeverria's employment.
B. 
Analysis
Plaintiff challenges the subpoena
on the following grounds: (1) the subpoena seeks records that are neither
relevant nor reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence, and (2) the subpoena violates Plaintiff’s right to privacy.  
Relevance
Elite Veterinary contends the
subpoena seeks evidence relevant to addressing Echeverria’s testimony that Dr. David
disparaged her in communicating with potential employers, thereby preventing
employment opportunities after Elite Veterinary.  In support, Elite Veterinary points to Echeverria’s
testimony where she states, but for Dr. David’s interference, she would have
been able to obtain subsequent employment at another veterinary clinic.  (See Foster Decl., Ex. C.)  Echeverria further testified that her inability
to get another job at a veterinary clinic causes sleeplessness, migraines, and
depression.  (Id.)  As such, Elite Veterinary contends the information
sought—Echeverria’s disciplinary and termination history with North
Valley—bears upon Echeverria’s ability to obtain employment with another
veterinary clinic and generally, her damages claim.  
The court disagrees.  All subpoena categories relate to
Echeverria’s work performance and the reasons for her termination from
employment with North Valley.  Defendant’s
explicit explanation of relevance relates to its belief that the documents sought
will demonstrate that Plaintiff is unable to obtain employment not because of
statements made by Dr. David, but rather because of negative comments made by North
Valley to prospective employers. That may be a viable theory but the categories
identified in the subpoena don’t match that theory of relevance.  None of the categories in the subpoena relate
to whether North Valley was contacted by a prospective employer or responded in
any way to a prospective employer.  The
subpoena fails to track Defendant’s theory of relevance.  
IV.        CONCLUSION
            
Based on the foregoing, the motion to quash the subpoena is
GRANTED.  
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 
 
Dated:   April 30, 2024                                              




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            