  Case Number:  21STCV34645    Hearing Date:   April 30, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     April
30, 2024                                    TRIAL DATE:  July 9, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Prospect
Park, LLC, et al.  v. Azealia Banks, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV34645
 





















 
DEFENDANT
AND CROSS-COMPLAINANT AZEALIA BANKS’S SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE PURSUANT TO
C.C.P. § 425.16



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant and Cross-Complainant Azealia Banks
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff and Cross-Defendant Jeff Kwatinetz


 
I.          INTRODUCTION
            
This action arises from the deterioration of a business relationship
between Jeff Kwatinetz (“Kwatinetz”), founder and manager of music production
company, Prospect Park, LLC, and Azealia Banks (“Banks”), a recording artist
and rapper.  
 
            On September 20, 2021, Kwatinetz and
Prospect Park, LLC (collectively, “Plaintiffs”), filed a Complaint against
Banks and Lasagna Girl, LLC (collectively, “Defendants”).  The Complaint
alleged the causes of action for (1) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealing; (2) Interference with Contractual Relations; (3) Defamation;
(4) Trade Libel; (5) Stalking in Violation of California Civil Code Section
1708.7; (6) Invasion of Privacy; and (7) Civil Extortion. 
 
            On November 18, 2021, Defendants filed
a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiffs alleging causes of action for (1) Breach
of Contract; (2) Fraud and Deceit; (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (4)
Declaratory Relief; and (5) Negligence. 
 
            On April 19, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
a Motion for Leave to File the First Amended Complaint (FAC).  Kwatinetz sought to add an eighth cause of
action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress against Banks.
 
On July 19, 2023, the court granted Plaintiffs’ Motion for Leave to File
the FAC.  Thereafter, the Defendants did
not answer the FAC, claiming they were never served.  To resolve the confusion, the parties entered
into a Stipulation for Filing First Amended Complaint, which allowed Plaintiffs
to file the FAC and Defendants to respond to the FAC within thirty days of
service.  Further, Defendants were given
the “the right to demur to or otherwise challenge the Eighth Cause of Action
for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, but will answer the other causes
of action in the FAC.”  The court signed the
Stipulation on November 1, 2023.
 
            On November 14, 2023, Banks filed
this Special Motion to Strike Pursuant to C.C.P § 425.16 (the “Motion”).  The Motion attacks the Eighth Cause of Action
for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress in the FAC and appears to also
attack “new defamatory allegations” which support, inter alia, the Third Cause
of Action for Defamation.
            
            Plaintiffs filed an opposition.  Banks replied.  The court has reviewed the moving papers,
opposition, and reply, and now issues its order. 
 
II.        DISCUSSION
 
A.    Judicial
Notice
In support of the Motion, Banks
requests judicial notice of eighteen documents.  In relevant part, Exhibit 3F is the Stipulation
for Filing First Amended Complaint.  Exhibit 3G is a copy of Plaintiffs’ FAC.  The court GRANTS the request as to Exhibits 3F
and 3G only.  As the court does not rely
on the remaining documents for which judicial notice is requested, the court
declines to rule on the requests. 
 
In support of her Reply, Banks
requests judicial notice of four additional documents.  The court does not rely on any of these
documents, and thus, declines to rule on the requests.
 
B.     Evidentiary
Objections
 
1.     
Plaintiffs’
Objections
Plaintiffs assert seven objections to the declaration of Paymon John
Vafa.  Objections 1, 2, 3 are OVERRULED.  Objections 4, 5, 6, 7 are SUSTAINED. 
 
2.     
Defendant’s
Objections
Banks asserts ten objections to the declaration of Plaintiff Jeff
Kwatinetz.  The objections are OVERRULED.  
 
Banks also asserts objections to the declaration of Paul Sorrell.  The objections are misnumbered.  The objection listed on page 13, identified as
number 1. Is SUSTAINED; the remaining objections are OVERRULED.  (See Sweetwater Union High School Dist. v.
Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 947-49 (Sweetwater)
[“evidence may be considered at the anti-SLAPP motion stage if it is reasonably
possible the evidence set out in supporting affidavits, declarations or their
equivalent will be admissible at trial”].)[1]
 
C.     Legal
Standard
Code of
Civil Procedure section 425.16 permits a court to strike causes of action
arising from an act in furtherance of the defendant’s right of free speech or
petition, unless the plaintiff establishes that there is a probability that the
plaintiff will prevail on the claim.   
 “The anti-SLAPP procedures are designed to
shield a defendant’s constitutionally protected conduct from the undue burden
of frivolous litigation.”  (Baral v.
Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 393 (Baral).)  “The anti-SLAPP statute does not insulate
defendants from any liability for claims arising from the protected rights of
petition or speech. It only provides a procedure for weeding out, at an early
stage, meritless claims arising from protected activity.”  (Id. at p. 384.) 
            Resolution
of an anti-SLAPP motion involves two steps. 
“At the first step, the moving defendant bears the burden of identifying
all allegations of protected activity, and the claims for relief supported by
them.  When relief is sought based on
allegations of both protected and unprotected activity, the unprotected
activity is disregarded at this stage. If the court determines that relief is
sought based on allegations arising from activity protected by the statute, the
second step is reached. There, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to
demonstrate that each challenged claim based on protected activity is legally
sufficient and factually substantiated. The court, without resolving
evidentiary conflicts, must determine whether the plaintiff's showing, if
accepted by the trier of fact, would be sufficient to sustain a favorable
judgment. If not, the claim is stricken. Allegations of protected activity
supporting the stricken claim are eliminated from the complaint, unless they
also support a distinct claim on which the plaintiff has shown a probability of
prevailing.”  (Baral, supra, 1
Cal.5th at p. 396.) 
 
            The
California Supreme Court has “described this second step as a
‘summary-judgment-like procedure.’ [Citation.] The court does not weigh
evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims. Its inquiry is limited to
whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made a prima
facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment. It accepts the
plaintiff's evidence as true, and evaluates the defendant's showing only to
determine if it defeats the plaintiff's claim as a matter of law. [Citation.] ‘[C]laims
with the requisite minimal merit may proceed.’ [Citation.] …. As to the second
step inquiry, a plaintiff seeking to demonstrate the merit of the claim ‘may
not rely solely on its complaint, even if verified; instead, its proof must be
made upon competent admissible evidence. [Citation.]’ ” (Sweetwater, supra, 6
Cal.5th at p. 940.) 
 
D.
 Analysis
 
Timeliness
 
The special motion may be filed
within 60 days of the service of the complaint or, in the court's discretion,
at any later time upon terms it deems proper. The motion shall be scheduled by
the clerk of the court for a hearing not more than 30 days after the service of
the motion unless the docket conditions of the court require a later hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16, subd. (f).)  The California Supreme Court has held that
that section 425.16, subdivision (f), “should be interpreted to permit an
anti-SLAPP motion against an amended complaint if it could not have been
brought earlier, but to prohibit belated motions that could have been brought
earlier (subject to the trial court's discretion to permit a late motion).”  (Newport Harbor Ventures, LLC v. Morris
Cerullo World Evangelism (2018) 4 Cal.5th 637, 645.)
 
Plaintiffs argue the Motion is
untimely except to the extent it seeks to challenge the Eighth Cause of Action
for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (IIED).  The court agrees.  
 
Here, Plaintiffs filed the original
Complaint in 2021.  Banks did not file a
special motion to strike against the Complaint. 
Suffice it to say, more than 60 days have passed since Plaintiffs
commenced this action.  
 
Nevertheless, Banks argues the
court should exercise its discretion to consider the Motion beyond the IIED
claim.  Banks bases this argument on the
notion that because the defamatory allegations supporting the IIED claim also
support Kwatinetz’s defamation claim, and because  an e-mail from Plaintiffs’ counsel
purportedly identified new defamatory conduct, the court may therefore consider
all causes of action which are supported by the defamatory allegations.  The argument lacks merit.  Banks does not cite any authority in support
of her argument.  
 
 Moreover, even if the court has discretion to
consider an untimely special motion to strike, the parties’ Stipulation for Filing First Amended Complaint
(“Stipulation”) weighs against doing so.  The Stipulation provides,
 
“1. That Plaintiffs shall file the FAC which was the subject of the
Motion and as to which the Court previously granted leave to amend, within
three business days of entry of this Order; 
 
2. Defendants shall respond to the FAC within thirty (30) days of
service per code. Defendants shall have the right to demur to or otherwise
challenge the Eighth Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress, but will answer the other causes of action in the FAC.”
 
(Stipulation, emphasis
added.)  Contrary to Banks’s position,
the Stipulation evidences her agreement to challenge the IIED claim (if she so
elected) and to answer the non-IIED causes of action in the FAC.  The Stipulation is not susceptible to any
other interpretation.  Allowing Banks to
challenge the non-IIED causes of action at this late hour would run afoul of
this court’s order.  Accordingly, the
court declines to entertain the Motion beyond Kwatinetz’s IIED claim.
 
            Background 
 
Plaintiff Jeff
Kwatinetz is “an entertainment industry executive, co-founder of a professional
sports league, and civil rights attorney and advocate.”  (FAC ¶ 2.)  He is the founder and principle of Plaintiff
Prospect Park, LLC.  (Kwatinetz Decl. ¶ 1.)
 Prospect Park is a talent management,
music label, and television and music production company.  (Id. ¶ 2.)  
 
Defendant Azealia Banks is a
musician and rapper.  (FAC ¶ 3.)  In 2014, Kwatinetz signed Banks to …  Prospect Park, which distributed Banks’ debut
album, “Broke with Expensive Taste”. 
Plaintiffs later dropped her as a client due to erratic behavior as well
as refusing to engage in basic promotion of her album.  (Id. ¶ 4.)  Banks has not worked with Kwatinetz or
Prospect Park since 2015. (Id.)
 
Bank’s motion is undeveloped and lacks
specificity.  Nonetheless, the court will
undertake the requisite analysis but, by necessity, will reach alternative
rulings.  These rulings ultimately result
in the denial of the motion.   

Prong 1: Banks’s Protected Activities
 
To satisfy the first prong of the
two-prong test, a movant defendant must demonstrate that the act or acts
of which the plaintiff complains were taken ‘in furtherance of the
defendant’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or
California Constitution in connection with a public as defined in the
statute.  (Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002)
29 Cal.4th 53, 67 (Equilon); see City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002)
29 Cal.4th 69, 78 (City of Cotati) [“[i]n the anti-SLAPP context,
the critical point is whether the plaintiff's cause of action itself was based
on an act in furtherance of the defendant's right of petition or free
speech”].)  
 
An “ ‘act in furtherance of a
person’s right of petition or free speech under the United States or California
Constitution in connection with a public issue’ includes: (1) any written or
oral statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial
proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law, (2) any written
or oral statement or writing made in connection with an issue under
consideration or review by a legislative, executive, or judicial body, or any
other official proceeding authorized by law, (3) any written or oral statement
or writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection
with an issue of public interest, or (4) any other conduct in furtherance of
the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional
right of free speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public
interest.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 425.16,
subd. (e); City of Cotati, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p. 75 [“section
425.16 expressly ‘defines the types of claims that are subject to the
anti-SLAPP procedures’ [citation omitted] i.e., causes of action arising from
any act of protected speech or petitioning as these terms are defined in
subdivision (e)(1)–(4) of the statute”].)
 
            1.  Bank’s Failure to Identify the Speech at
Issue
 
            At
the first step, the moving defendant “bears the burden of establishing that the
challenged allegations or claims ‘aris[e] from’ protected activity in which the
defendant has
engaged.” (Park v. Board of
Trustees of California State University (2017) 2 Cal.5th 1057, 1061; Baral,
supra, 1 Cal.5th at p. 396 [“the moving defendant bears the burden of
identifying all allegations of protected activity, and the claims for
relief supported by them”].)  This
requires the court to “consider the elements of the challenged claim and
what actions by the defendant
supply those elements and consequently form the basis for liability.” (Id.
at p. 1063.)  It is the defendant's
burden “to identify what acts each challenged
claim rests on and to show how
those acts are protected under a statutorily defined category of protected
activity.” (Bonni v. St. Joseph Health System (2021) 11 Cal.5th
995, 1009.)  A moving party will not carry its first-step
burden on a claim if that party “fails to identify how the speech or conduct
underlying [that claim] is protected activity ....” (Id. at p. 1011.)   
 
            Banks fails
to identify the speech or conduct at issue. 
In her notice of motion, Banks identifies the “offending paragraphs” of
the FAC as paragraphs 5, 16, 19, 67, 77 and 81-86.  In the body of the argument, however, Banks only
mentions paragraphs 82 and 83, and no others. 
“A basic tenet of motion practice is that the notice of motion must
state the grounds for the order being sought [citations], and courts generally
may consider only the grounds stated in the notice of motion [citation].” (Kinda
v. Carpenter (2016) 247 Cal.App.4th 1268, 1277.)  But “an omission in the notice may be
overlooked if the supporting papers make clear the grounds for the relief
sought.” (Luri v. Greenwald (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1119, 1125.) The
purpose of the notice requirements “is to cause the moving party to
‘sufficiently define the issues for the information and attention of the adverse
party and the court.’ ” (Ibid.)  
 
            Other than gesturing
to these paragraphs, Banks does not quote, identify, or characterize the speech
that forms the basis for the Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress cause
of action.  Bonni recognizes a
“nonmovant should not be put to the burden of parsing the cause of action in
the moving party's stead” and explains that “well-established anti-SLAPP law”
provides a solution when an anti-SLAPP movant seeks to impose burdens on the
nonmovant or the trial court by filing an overbroad or nonspecific motion:
“attention to the allocation of the applicable burden of proof.” (Bonni,
supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 1011.) “If a cause of action contains multiple
claims and a moving party fails to identify how the speech or conduct
underlying some of those claims is protected activity, it will not carry its
first-step burden as to those claims.” (Ibid.)  At no point does Banks, “identify the
activity each challenged claim rests on and demonstrate that that activity is
protected by the anti-SLAPP statute.” (Wilson v. Cable News Network, Inc. (2019)
7 Cal.5th 871, 884.)  Banks fails to meet
her burden.  On this basis alone, the
motion is denied.  Nonetheless, the court
will proceed with the analysis after characterizing  the speech theoretically targeted by Banks’s motion.   
 
            2.  Code of Civil Procedure section 425.16(e)(3)
& (e)(4) 
 
            Alternatively,
the court will proceed with the prong one analysis and, based upon the
paragraphs identified in the notice, will categorizes the speech as: (1) Banks’s
rants against Kwatinetz including threats against Kwatinetz and his wife and
young children and (2) Banks telling her fans to refrain from purchasing her
album “Broke with Expensive Taste” until Prospect Park pays her additional
royalties. (FAC ¶¶ 5, 16, 19, 21, 67, 77, 82, 83.)[2]  Banks posted these “rants” on Instagram,
Twitter, and You Tube.  (FAC ¶16.)  
 
            Banks asserts in a conclusory manner
that her statements were made in connection with a public issue or an issue of
public interest.  As discussed above,
however, Banks does not identify the statements, let alone discuss how they
qualify under sections 425.16(e)(3) and (e)(4).  Nonetheless, Banks points to these
subdivisions for protection.  Subdivision (e)(3) covers “any written or oral statement or
writing made in a place open to the public or a public forum in connection with
an issue of public interest,” and subdivision (e)(4), also known as the catch
all provision, which states, “any other conduct in furtherance of the exercise
of the constitutional right of petition or the constitutional right of free
speech in connection with a public issue or an issue of public interest.”  Though similar, each subdivision has
different requirements  “While each
subdivision has similar language, they have different requirements.  First, subdivision (e)(3) requires that the
challenged speech occur in a public place or a public forum.”  (Wilson, supra, 7 Cal.5th at p.
903.)  Subdivision (e)(4) has no such
public forum requirement.  (Terry v. Davis Cmty. Church (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th
1534, 1545.) 
 
            The first
prong of the anti-SLAPP analysis requires the defendant to make “a threshold
showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising from protected
activity.”  (Equilon, supra, 29¿Cal.4th at p. 67; § 425.16,
subd. (b)(1).)  “[T]he statutory phrase ‘cause of action . . . 
arising from’ means simply that the defendant’s act underlying the plaintiff’s
cause of action must itself have been an act in furtherance of the right of
petition or free speech. [Citation.] In¿the anti-SLAPP context, the
critical point is whether the plaintiff’s cause of action itself was based on
an act in furtherance of the defendant’s right of petition or free
speech.”  (City of Cotati, supra, 29 Cal.4th at p.
78.)  Thus, “[t]he only means
specified in section 425.16 by which a moving defendant can satisfy the
[‘arising from’] requirement is to demonstrate that the
defendant's conduct by which plaintiff claims to have been injured
falls within one of the four categories described in subdivision (e)....” (Equilon, supra, 29¿Cal.4th at p. 66.)  As such, a trial court must examine “the
elements of a claim and determine what actions supply those elements and
consequently form the basis for the defendant’s alleged liability.”  (Park v. Board of Trustees of California
State University (2017) 2 Cal.5th 1057, 1063.) “In deciding whether the
‘arising from’ requirement is met, a court considers ‘the pleadings, and
supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability
or defense is based.’ ”  (City of Cotati, supra, 29 Cal.4th 69 at
p. 79, quoting § 425.16, subd. (b).)
 
Here, the
claim at issue is Kwatinetz’s Eighth Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction
of Emotional Distress.  Banks fails to
demonstrate how her alleged protected activity caused Kwatinetz’s harm, but the
analysis is straightforward – Kwatinetz’s injury was caused by Banks’s rants
and threats.  Those rants and threats form
the basis for the Eighth Cause of Action.  Banks does not explain or identify, however, how
the Eighth Cause of Action “arises from” the statements alleged in paragraph
five regarding boycotting her album.  Statements
concerning boycotting the album are more properly considered context.  “[T]he moving defendant bears the
burden of identifying all allegations of protected activity, and the
claims for relief supported by them” (Baral, supra,
1 Cal.5th at p. 396), and that “allegations of protected activity that
merely provide context, without supporting a claim for recovery, cannot be
stricken under the anti-SLAPP statute.”  (Id. at p. 394.)  While that may be true for Banks’s statements
relating to boycotting her album, that is not true for her rants and threats.  Without a doubt the Eighth
Cause of Action arises from Defendant’s rants and violent threats, as identified
in the targeted paragraphs.  The real question
comes next, whether Banks’s rants that threats involve issues of public
interest.  
 
                The California Supreme Court in FilmOn.com Inc. v. DoubleVerify Inc. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 133 (FilmOn) “articulated a two-step inquiry for deciding whether the
activity from which a lawsuit arises falls within section 425.16(e)(4)’s
protection: first, we ask what public issue or issues the challenged activity
implicates, and second, we ask whether the challenged activity contributes to
public discussion of any such issue. (Citation.) If the answer to the second
question is yes, then the protections of the anti-SLAPP statute are triggered,
and the plaintiff in the underlying lawsuit must establish “a probability” of
prevailing before the action may proceed. (§ 425.16, subd. (b).)”  (Geiser v. Kuhns
(2022) 13 Cal.5th 1238, 1243.)


                Here, the court must decide whether Banks’s
speech involves public issues and, if so, whether her speech contributes to the
discussion of those public issues.  With
respect to the first step, “California's anti-SLAPP jurisprudence has
“struggled” to define what makes something an issue of public, rather than
private, interest. It has been a struggle because the distinction between
“public” and “private” is notoriously difficult to state in clear and simple
terms. … On some points, however, judges have “ably” distilled the
characteristics of a public issue.  Five
factors generally tend to make a statement implicate a public interest:
 
                1. The statement concerns a person
or entity in the public eye;
                2. the statement concerns conduct
that could directly affect a large number of people                          beyond the direct participants;
                3. the statement concerns a topic of
widespread public interest;
                4. the issue is of concern to a
substantial number of people; or
                5. the issue has been the subject of
extensive media coverage.”
 
(Dubac
v. Itkoff (Cal. Ct. App., Apr. 19, 2024,
No. B317061) 2024 WL 1693312, at *4-5 (Dubac) (cleaned up).)  
 
            “In addition to stating these five
factors, the Geiser decision [Geiser v. Kuhns (2022) 13 Cal.5th 1238] also
emphasized the importance of considering contextual factors, including the
identity and number of speakers, the audience, the location of the
communication, and the purpose and timing of the communication.  The ultimate question is whether a statement
“furthered public discussion of the public issues it implicated.”  (Dubac, supra, 2024 WL 1693312, at
*4–5.) 
 
            Here, the parties do not address
these issues.  Understandably, Plaintiff
is at somewhat of a disadvantage because Banks does not identify the statements
at issue.  Broadly speaking, Banks
statements regarding her feud with Kwatinetz qualify for protection within the
meaning of section 425.16(e)(3) and (e)(4).  
 
            Applying the factors identified in Dubac,
the court observes:
            
            (1) the statements concern persons
or entities in the public eye;
 
Both
Kwatinez and Banks are persons in the public eye.  
 
            (2) the statements concern conduct
that could affect a large number of people beyond the  direct participants;  
 
            While this “feud” is between Banks
and Kwatinetz, others appear to be entangled, including Kwatinetz’s business
partner, Ice Cube, and Banks’s fans.  The
rants were posted on various social media. 
“Web sites accessible to the public … are public forums for purposes of
the anti-SLAPP statute.”  (Barrett v.
Rosenthal (2006) 40 Cal.4th 33, 41.)  
 
            (3) the statements concern a topic
of widespread public concern;  
            
            The feud between Banks and Kwatinetz
is personal but has garnered some media attention.[3]  “Celebrity gossip” is properly considered
statements in connection with an issue of public interest.  (Jackson v. Mayweather (2017) 10
Cal.App.5th 1240, 1254 [“Mayweather’s postings and comments
concerning his relationship with Jackson, as well as Jackson’s pregnancy, its
termination, and her cosmetic surgery, were ‘celebrity gossip’ properly
considered under established case law, as statements in connection with an
issue of public interest’].)     
 
            (4) the issue is of concern to a
substantial number of people;
 
            Because the feud is covered by the
media and are the subject of attention on social media, the issues may be of
concern to a substantial number of people.
 
            (5) the issue has been the subject
of extensive media coverage;
 
            As discussed above and recognized by
the Plaintiff in the FAC, the feud has been the subject of media attention.
 
             Considering the contextual factors, including
the identity and number of speakers, the audience, the location of the
communication, and the purpose and timing of the communication, the court finds
that Banks’s rants against Kwatinetz and his family come within the protection
of sections 425.16(e)(3) and (e)(4).
 
                Plaintiff disagrees and argues that notwithstanding the
foregoing Banks’s statements are not entitled to protection because they are
criminal and illegal.  But Plaintiff
fails to present any analysis with respect to his conclusion that Banks
statement are illegal threats, extortion, and stalking.  Plaintiff’s entire argument is found in one
brief paragraph and lacks any analysis of the applicable criminal laws and their
elements.  The suggestion of criminal
conduct is insufficient.  
 
            True, the anti-SLAPP statute does
not apply to “speech or  petition rights
if, as a matter of law, that activity was 
illegal and by reason of the illegality not constitutionally protected.”
(Flatley v. Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299, 316 (Flatley).)  The “exception for illegal activity is very
narrow and applies only in undisputed cases of illegality.”  (Zucchet v. Galardi (2014) 229
Cal.App.4th 1466, 1478.)  Illegality as a
matter of law exists only if the defendant concedes its illegal conduct or the
evidence conclusively establishes the illegality. (Flatley, supra, 39
Cal.4th at p. 316; see City of Montebello v. Vasquez (2016) 1 Cal.5th
409, 424 [“The defendant must concede the point, or the evidence conclusively
demonstrate it, for a claim of illegality to defeat an anti-SLAPP motion at the
first step.”].)  “If, however, a factual
dispute exists about the legitimacy of the defendant's conduct, it cannot be
resolved within the first step but must be raised by the plaintiff in
connection with the plaintiff's burden to show a probability of prevailing on
the merits.” (Flatley, at p. 316.)  For the illegality exception to apply, the
defendants’ conduct must be criminal and not merely violate a statute. (Klem
v. Access, Ins. Co. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 595, 610.)  Banks does not concede that her speech or
actions constitute criminal conduct.  Plaintiff’s
conclusory, one paragraph, reference to the topic is insufficient to establish that
the rants and threats are criminal as a matter of law.  
            
The court moves to the second prong.     
 
Prong 2: Kwatinetz’s Probability
of Prevailing on the IIED Claim
 
The burden of showing a probability
of prevailing on the claim rests with Plaintiff.  “To establish a probability of prevailing,
the plaintiff must demonstrate that the complaint is both legally sufficient
and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of facts to sustain a
favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the plaintiff is
credited.  For purposes of this inquiry, the trial court considers the
pleadings and evidentiary submissions of both the plaintiff and the defendant;
though the court does not weigh the credibility or comparative probative
strength of competing evidence, it should grant the motion if, as a matter of
law, the defendant’s evidence supporting the motion defeats the plaintiff’s
attempt to establish evidentiary support for the claim.  In making this
assessment it is the court’s responsibility…to accept as true the evidence
favorable to the plaintiff […].  The plaintiff need only establish that
his or her claim has minimal merit to avoid being stricken as a SLAPP.”  (Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006)
39 Cal.4th 260, 291.)  “The burden is on
the plaintiff to demonstrate that each challenged claim based on protected
activity is legally sufficient and factually substantiated.” (Baral, supra,
1 Cal.5th at p. 396.)  As to the second
step inquiry, a plaintiff seeking to demonstrate the merit of the claim “may
not rely solely on its complaint, even if verified; instead, its proof must be
made upon competent admissible evidence.” 
(Sweetwater, supra, 6 Cal.5th at. p. 940.)  “[T]he plaintiff must make the requisite
showing as to each challenged claim that is based on allegations of protected
activity.  How the plaintiff does that
will vary from case to case, depending on the nature of the complaint and the
thrust of the motion.”  (Baral, at p. 392.)
 
“A cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress exists when there is ‘(1) extreme and
outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless
disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff's
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant's outrageous conduct.  A defendant's conduct is ‘outrageous’ when it
is so ‘extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community. And the defendant's conduct must be ‘intended to inflict injury or
engaged in with the realization that injury will result.’”  (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th
1035, 1050-51, quoting Potter v. Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. (1993)
6 Cal.4th 965, 1001 (internal citations omitted).)  “Liability for intentional infliction of
emotional distress ‘ “does not extend to mere insults, indignities, threats,
annoyances, petty oppressions, or other trivialities.”  (Bock v. Hansen (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th
215, 233.)  Severe emotional distress
means “ ‘emotional distress of such substantial quality or enduring quality
that no reasonable [person] in civilized society should be expected to endure it.’”  (Id.)  
 
Kwatinetz’s IIED claim is based, in
part, on a video posted to YouTube wherein Banks threatens to hurt Kwatinetz
and his family (“I’m coming to get you, you better hide your kids and hide your
fucking wife” because “I’ll get them too”; “I’m about to get that pink Glock…I
will bust his head right the fuck open”; “I will blow your fucking head off
with a hot pink …; “I will fuck your whole family up…”).  (See Kwatinez Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 1.)  Banks also insinuates or plainly states that
Kwatinetz is a murderer and friends with a sexual abuser (“I believe 100% that
Jeff Kwatinetz had Brittany Murphy killed. He was friends with Weinsten for
christs sake.”), and engages in drug use and illicit sexual activity (“Jeff
Kwatinetz used to snort coke out of my asshole while I sang the boy from
impanema.”).  (See Kwatinez Decl., Ex.
2.)  Kwatinetz has met his burden to
establish extreme and outrageous conduct done with the intention of causing, or
reckless disregard of the probability of causing, Kwatinetz’s emotional
distress.
 
Kwatinetz details the various statements
Banks made about him through social media which are plainly aimed at causing
emotional, if not physical injury.  (See
Kwatinetz Decl. ¶¶ 4-7.)  Kwatinetz
further establishes damages as a result of Banks’s conduct.  He states:
 
“Banks’ conduct has
obviously caused me significant emotional distress and fear for my personal
safety, and the safety of my family, as well as concern for and damage to my
business relationships.  As a result of
Banks’ conduct, I am threatened, terrified and distressed.  I live in a constant state of fear that Banks
will physically harm me or my family, and am concerned about the sanctity of my
personal and professional relationships. 
As a result of Banks’ conduct, I have experienced stress, worry, and sleeplessness
for many months.  I have hired two
security firms, Edgewater Security and Foresight Solutions, to deal with Banks
and evaluate her threats, and assist in protecting me and my family.  I have incurred thousands of dollars in
expenses through these entities and others as a result.  I am constantly stressed about Banks’ threats
and worried what Banks might do next.”
 
(Kwatinetz Decl. ¶ 14.) 
 
Considering the evidence, which the
court must accept as true for purposes of the anti-SLAPP, Kwatinetz has
established the requisite minimal merit of his claim for IIED.  (Baral, supra, 1 Cal.5th at
pp. 384-85.) 
 
III.      CONCLUSION
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant Azealia Banks’s Special Motion to Strike Pursuant to C.C.P § 425.16 is DENIED.
 
Plaintiff is to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:   April 30, 2024                                               




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
 
            


