 Case Number:  23VECV01603    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2025    Dept:  T 23VECV01603  Ghukasyn v Pilossyan Tentative rulings:   Motions in limineAll rulings on all motions in limine apply with  equal effect to plaintiff and defendant, their witnesses, counsel, and parties.  It is counsel’s responsibility to assure that  their clients and witnesses know the rulings on the motions and limine and not  violate those rulings at the time of the trial.   Failure to comply with these orders may result in monetary sanctions  against counsel and/party, evidence or issue sanctions, and/or mistrial. PILOSSYAN,  M.D.S MOTION IN LIMINE NO. 1 RE: EXCLUSION OF STANDARD OF CARE OPINIONS NOT  CAUSALLY RELATED TO PLAINTIFFS INJURIES          Deny.  The facts are relevant to the entire picture  of treatment of the plaintiff.  The are  relevant on credibility.  They are  relevant to explain whether the doctor’s care was within the standard of  care.  It is relevant to know that  defendant may have breached the standard of care in other aspects of the  treatment when the jury is making an assessment of his knowledge, training,  experience, and credibility. 1. Without  any evidence of scienter or intent on the part of defendant to support his allegation,  Dr. Wallace has alleged Dr. Pilossyan fraudulently altered the medical records.  However, Dr. Wallace acknowledged on several occasions the alleged alteration of  the medical records caused plaintiff no harm. For these reasons, this opinion  should be excluded. 2. Dr.  Wallace was critical of Dr. Pilossyan for his inability to recall the names of  his receptionist at the time he provided care to plaintiff. Dr. Wallace  acknowledged Dr. Pilossyan's inability to recall the names of his staff did not  cause plaintiff injury. 3. Dr.  Wallace is critical of Dr. Pilossyan for allegedly prescribing Eliquis to Ms. Ghukasyan  after her discharge from Glendale Adventist Medical Center. Importantly, Dr.  Wallace admitted he did not know whether plaintiff ever took the Eliquis medication  after her discharge from Glendale Adventist. He also admitted he had seen no  evidence the medication was ever filled. He admitted he had no evidence plaintiff  ever took the medication after her discharge. After some argument, Dr.Wallace  acknowledged if plaintiff did not take the Eliquis medication after her discharge  from Glendale Adventist Medical Center, this alleged breach in the standard  did not cause her any injury. Therefore, this opinion should be excluded.  4. Dr.  Wallace is critical of Dr. Pilossyan for allegedly abandoning plaintiff upon  her admission to Glendale Adventist Medical Center on January 22. 2022. Dr.  Wallace acknowledged this alleged breach in the standard by Dr. Pilossyan  caused plaintiff no harm. In fact, he suggested it was to plaintiff’s benefit  that Dr. Pilossyan did not provide care for her at this time. As such, this  opinion should be excluded as well. 5.  Dr. Wallace testified that Dr. Pilossyan’s  failure to obtain an additional ultrasound was below the standard of care. PILOSSYAN,  M.D.S MOTION IN LIMINE NO. 2 REGARDING THE EXCLUSION OF TESTIMONY RELATED TO  CRITICISMS OF CONDUCT NOT FALLING BELOW THE STANDARD OF CARE Deny as to  testimony by experts for the same reasons as No. 1.  As to specific criticisms of defendant by lay  persons, the court cannot determine whether they are admissible in a vacuum.  Objections should be made at the time of the  questions. PILOSSYAN,  M.D.S MOTION IN LIMINE NO. 3 PRECLUDING MENTION OF PRIOR MALPRACTICE, CIVIL OR  CRIMINAL ACTIONS AGAINST DEFENDANT Grant.  There shall be no mention of other lawsuits,  judgments, arrests, charges or other claims against defendant.  In fact, no questions may be asked of these  topics.  However, this does not evidence  of felony convictions and does not bar the use of sworn testimony of defendant  from other actions without identifying the nature of those actions. PILOSSYAN,  M.D.S MOTION IN LIMINE NO. 4 Regarding Evidence of Liability Insurance Grant.  There shall be no questions or answers,  argument or evidence about the presence or absence of insurance, or whether  counsel for defendant were hired by an insurance company. PILOSSYAN,  M.D.S MOTION IN LIMINE NO. 5 REPTILIAN THEORY OF LIABILITY Grant.  There shall be no questions, evidence, or argument  appealing to the juror’s personal interests or the interests of the community  and none regarding the Golden Rule.    