  Case Number:  23PSCV00738    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)  
DEFENDANT CITY OF POMONA’S NOTICE OF DEMURRER TO
PLAINTIFFS’ SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT (“SAC”) FOR DAMAGES is SUSTAINED
with leave to amend. 
(2)  
CITY OF MONTCLAIR AND SEAN MACKEY’S DEMURRER TO
PLAINTIFFS’ SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
 
The court grants leave to amend so that (1) Plaintiffs
can allege specific facts as to how Officer Mackey allegedly did not use due
care (notably as he did not crash into Plaintiffs’ vehicle) and (2) Plaintiffs can
clarify whether the Cities (a) promulgated and adopted a pursuit policy but
that the policy does not comply with the statute or (b) whether the Cities did
not promulgate a policy.  
 
Background
 
This is a negligence case. Plaintiffs JUAN ALVARRAN, an
individual; AMANDA DOW, an individual; and LILAH ALVARRAN, a minor through her
Guardian Ad Litem JUAN ALVARRAN allege the following against Defendants CITY OF
MONTCLAIR, a public entity and ANTHONY ALMEDA: On 1/14/2023, Defendant Almeda
was being pursued by Police Officer Sean Mackey #401 of the Montclair Police
Department when Defendant Almeda collided with Plaintiff’s vehicle and caused a
chain-reaction of collisions with other motor vehicles.
 
On March 13, 2023, Plaintiffs filed suit for:
 
1.    
NEGLIGENCE (Cal. Gov. Code §§ 815.2(a), 820(a)) 
2.    
VICARIOUS LIABILITY OF A PUBLIC ENTITY (Vicarious
Liability of Public Entity (Gov. Code §§ 815.2 and 820; and Veh. Code § 17001) 
 
On October 6, 2023, the City of Montclair filed its answer. 
 
On January 22, 2024, the City of Montclair filed a
cross-complaint against the City of Pomona for: 
 
1.    
Implied Indemnity
2.    
Contribution And Indemnity
3.    
Declaratory Relief
 
On February 8, 2024, Plaintiff named the City of Pomona as
Doe 1 and Sean Mackey as Doe 2.
 
On February 21, 2024, City of Pomona filed its answer to the
Cross-Complaint. 
 
On April 11, 2024, the City of Pomona filed a demurrer,
which it withdrew on 4/19/24.
 
On April 19, 2024, the City of Pomona a demurrer, which on
5/20/24 the court sustained with leave to amend mainly because the complaint
did not state what the City of Pomona has allegedly done, notably when the City
of Montclair was engaged in the pursuit. 
 
On May 21, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
a FAC.
 
On July 24, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
a SAC reasserting the same COAs against the same Defendants. 
 
On August 23, 2024, the City of
Montclair (occasionally referred to as, “Montclair”) filed the instant demurrer
to the SAC.
 
On August 27, 2024, the City of
Pomona (occasionally referred to as, “Pomona”) filed the instant demurrer to
the SAC.
 
On September 6, 2024, Plaintiffs
filed their opposition to Montclair’s and Pomona’s (collectively, the “Cities”)
demurrers. 
 
On September 16, 2024, Montclair
filed its reply.
 
On September 18, 2024, Pomona
filed its reply. 
 
Discussion
 
The court will begin its
discussion with Officer Mackey’s claims for immunity followed by the issue of
whether the Cities are absolutely immune when they adopted a pursuit policy.  
 
1.     Whether
Officer Mackey is completely immune from liability when he was pursuing an
individual resisting arrest? 
 
The crux of the allegation against
Mackey is that he “was negligent in the operation of his police vehicle….” (SAC
¶23; see also ¶22 [“[D]efendants did not safely apprehend a suspect who was
traveling at high speeds and endangered all citizens in their path.”].)
 
As presented in the demurrer, the relevant law as to an officer’s
immunity is afford by Vehicle
Code section 17004. The statute provides, in relevant part, the
following:
 
A public employee is not liable for civil damages
on account of personal injury to or death of any person ... resulting from
the operation, in the line of duty, of an authorized emergency vehicle ... when
in the immediate pursuit of an actual or suspected violator of the law....
 
Plaintiffs seemingly rely upon Vehicle Code section 21056 (SAC ¶23) as the basis to
argue the immunity does not apply. Montclair does not address this statute in
its demurrer nor reply. Plaintiffs argue that while he was driving an
emergency vehicle on an emergency call with forward facing lights and sirens
per section 20155 (SAC ¶23),[1] he
is not immune from liability based upon Vehicle Code section 20156. The statute
provides the following:
 
Section 21055 does
not relieve the driver of a vehicle from the duty to drive with due regard
for the safety of all persons using the highway, nor protect him from the
consequences of an arbitrary exercise of the privileges granted in that
section. (emphasis added.) 
 
Here, the SAC alleges that Officer
Mackey “was negligent in the operation of his police vehicle taking into
account the emergency situation.” (SAC ¶23, emphasis added.) This is a
conclusory allegation. As this is a statutory COA, it must be pled with
particularity; “[e]very fact essential to the existence of statutory liability
must be pleaded.” (Susman v. City of Los Angeles (1969) 269 Cal.App.2d
803, 809.) To the extent that Plaintiffs rely upon the argument that “[t]hrough
discovery, there is a portion of a video where the initial officer is chasing
the suspect, and is being recorded on dash camera footage. At 10 minutes into
the video, you hear the supervisor say cancel the pursuit. Despite the order,
the Defendants continue with the pursuit” (Opp. p. 5:5-7), that is only
an argument, not an allegation that can be considered on a demurrer.[2] 
 
Therefore, the court SUSTAINS the
demurrer with leave to amend.[3] 
 
2.    
Cities’ Immunity[4]
 
Both Montclair and
Pomona rely upon Vehicle Code section 17004.7 for their claims of absolutely
immunity.[5]

 
Section
17004.7 limits the liability that
Section 17001 otherwise permits by affording immunity to public agencies
that adopt and implement appropriate vehicle pursuit policies.ddd (Ramirez
v. City of Gardena (2018) 5 Cal.5th 995, 999.) Specifically, Vehicle Code section 17004.7 provides
public agencies employing officers’ immunity from damages for collisions
resulting from police pursuits “if, but only if, the agency ‘adopts and
promulgates a written policy on, and provides regular and periodic training on
an annual basis for, vehicular pursuits....’” (Id, at p. 997, quoting § 17004.7, subd. (b)(1).) “Promulgation
of the written policy must include ‘a requirement that all peace officers of
the public agency certify in writing that they have received, read, and
understand the policy.’’ (Id., subd. (b)(2).) 
 
Both parties cite
to Ramirez for its proposition that so long as a policy was promulgated,
the issue of whether the officer actually followed the policy is irrelevant.[6]
But Ramirez makes no such finding. The specific issue before the
court was whether the immunity provided by Vehicle Code section 17004.7 is
available to a public agency “only if all peace officers of the agency certify
in writing that they have received, read, and understand the agency's
vehicle pursuit policy.” (Id. at p. 989, emphasis added). The court
answered that in the negative because (i) both the “plain meaning of this
language is that the policy must contain the requirement, not that every peace
officer must meet the requirement” (id. at p. 1001) and (ii) even if the
plain language were not so clear, the plaintiff’s “interpretation would greatly
reduce the incentive for public entities, especially large ones, to promulgate
the policy and provide the training, something we doubt the Legislature
intended.” (Id. at p. 1001.) The court explicitly stated that
beyond the foregoing finding, it “need not decide when a lack of
compliance with the certification requirement or meaningful implementation of
the pursuit policy indicates than an agency is not satisfying the statute’s
requirements.” (Id. at p. 1103, emphasis added.) 
 
As for the parties’ citation to Alcala v. City of
Corcoran (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 666, that is more instructive. In Alcala, the
decedent died while police were pursuing a murder suspect. The trial court
denied the plaintiff’s motion for judgment on the pleadings and entered
judgment in favor of the city and the city’s police department are immune from
liability under section 17004.7. (Id. at p. 669.) The
relevant portions of the opinion focused on two arguments: (i) adoption of a
pursuit policy (see header ‘II’ of the opinion) and (ii) the policy’s
compliance with statutory requirements (see header ‘III’ of the opinion). As to
the adoption of the pursuit policy, the police chief testified that “he adopted
Order No. 6.1 as the pursuit policy and procedure for the department. In order
to assure that all department officers were familiar with department policies,
[the chief] circulated the pursuit policy and required that all officers
acknowledge reading Order No. 6.1 by initialing the memo circulated with the
policy.” (Id. at pp. 673-674.) The appellate court determined that was
“sufficient to establish that Order No. 6.1 was the formally adopted written
pursuit policy for the department.” (Id. at p. 674.) In doing so, the
court rejected the plaintiffs’ argument that that was evidence of
implementation. 
 
Implementation,
whether the policy is followed, is not relevant to whether the immunity applies.  The
evidence supports a reasonable inference that Order No. 6.1 was adopted by the
department as its formal written policy on high-speed pursuits. We draw no
conclusion from this evidence about whether the policy was implemented. Nor do
we believe it was error to allow Shortnacy to testify. He is chief of police,
the most qualified person to testify about department policy, and the one
authorized by the city to adopt the department's policy on vehicle pursuits. (Id.
at p. 674, emphasis added.)[7]

 
Here, Plaintiffs allege that the
Cities “failed to adopt and promulgate a conforming pursuit
policy and failed to provide regular training to all officers as required by
California Vehicle Code section 17004.7 subdivision (B)(1).” (SAC ¶26, emphasis
added.) However, this
allegation raises an issue: both Pomona (Reply p. 3) and Montclair (Demurrer p.
2) argue that the SAC falsely claim that there is no pursuit policy exists.[8] The
Cities contend that Plaintiffs have been provided with the respective policies.
That concern aside, as Pomona notes, the opposition simultaneously alleges the
implementation of policies. (Reply p. 3 citing Opp. 4:25-26 [“[A]cted outside
the scope of their training and departmental policies”], emphasis
added); see also Opp. p. 5:1-2 [“[M]issue of resources and escalation in
response [] violated policy….”], emphasis added.) Thus, the complaint
is to be amended to clarify the pursuit policy issue. 
 
Conclusion
 
All in all, as for Officer
Mackey, the SAC does not plead sufficient facts to overcome the immunity
afforded to him under Vehicle Code section 17004. As for the Cities, the SAC
does not plead particular facts to overcome the immunity afforded to
them under Vehicle Code section 17004.7. Based on the foregoing, the demurrer
is sustained with leave to amend. 


