 Case Number:  24STCV17672    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  73 12/05/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
FUENTES, et al. v. 2416 BELLEVUE,
INC., et al. (24STCV17672)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/opposing party:  Gerald Ohn (Law
Offices of Gerald Ohn)
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party:  Heather Mills
(Skane Mills LLP)
 
MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF THE complaint
(filed 10/04/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants’ motion to strike is DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On July 16, 2024, Plaintiffs Liliam Fuentes, Jose Fuentes, and
Alexander Fuentes filed this action against Defendants 2416 Bellevue, Inc. and
J.K. Residential Services, Inc. 
 
The
Complaint alleges the following causes of action: 
1.     
Breach of Implied Warranty of Habitability
2.     
Negligence
3.     
Nuisance
4.     
Violations of Civil Code Section 1942.4
 
The Complaint alleges the following. Defendants owned, operated
and/or managed the residential property located at 2416 Bellevue Ave., Apt.
110, Los Angeles, California 90026 (“the Property”). Plaintiffs were tenants of
the Property and allege that they experienced various issues with the premises,
including insect infestations, mold and other building code and health and safety code violations.
Among other times, on or about April
11, 2022; June 13, 2023; and November 8, 2023 Defendants were cited by the Los
Angeles County Department of Public Health for numerous violations of
applicable health and safety codes or housing laws, among other things.
 
On October 10, 2024, Defendants filed the instant motion to
strike, arguing:
·       The factual
allegations of Plaintiffs’ Complaint do not rise to the level(s) of malice,
oppression, and fraud, as required by Section 3294. Plaintiffs’ prayer for
punitive damages is not supported by allegations of Defendants’ behavior of the
requisite malicious severity.
·       Punitive
damages are judicially disfavored
 
Plaintiffs filed an opposition, arguing:
·       The Complaint’s
allegations are sufficient to show the requisite state of mind sufficient for
punitive damages- namely that Defendants were aware the dangerous conditions of
the Subject Property was causing Plaintiffs' pain and suffering and yet still
refused to repair the conditions and thereby intentionally caused Plaintiffs'
pain and suffering. Liberally construed, these facts satisfy the burden of
alleging required for despicable conduct, malice and oppression under Civ. Code
§ 3294. Whether the jury will find that Defendant acted maliciously is a matter
of proof at trial, not for a motion to strike.
 
No reply was filed. 
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     
Legal
Standard
 
A motion to strike lies only where the
pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws. (Civ. Proc. Code § 436.) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Id. § 437.) 
 
B.     
Discussion
 
Defendants
argue that the Complaint’s claims for punitive damages must be stricken. Specifically,
Defendants request the Court to strike portions of the Complaint as follows:
1.     
Paragraph
17, lines 11-17: “The aforementioned acts of Defendants were done maliciously,
oppressively, fraudulently, recklessly and with the intent to cause injury to
or deprive Plaintiffs of their legal rights or with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights of Plaintiffs. Defendants’ conduct was despicable and
subjected Plaintiffs to cruel and unjust hardship. Indeed, even though
Defendants and their agents were aware of dangerous conditions at the Property,
some of which were directly affecting the health of the Plaintiffs, Defendants
intentionally failed to make timely repairs and proper repairs.”
2.     
Prayer
3, line 2: “Punitive and exemplary damages.”
 
The adequacy of a claim for punitive damages is properly tested by a
motion to strike. (Grieves v. Superior
Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 164.) Civil Code section 3294, subdivision
(a) authorizes the recovery of punitive damages where the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, express or implied. Malice means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (c)(1).) Oppression is despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel
and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights. (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud means an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the party of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (Id., subd. (c)(3).) 
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs fail to plead that Defendants have been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. 
 
However, the Court disagrees. The Complaint contains the following allegations:
 
“The following conditions, among others,
have existed at the Property in the common areas, and in some or all of the
plaintiffs' apartment units, some of which conditions will continue to exist in
the future for an uncertain duration until such time as defendants abate the
conditions: a) Insect infestations and lack of insect control; b) Damaged or
deteriorated carpeting; c) Holes in the ceilings and/or interior walls; d)
Damaged, broken, buckled or deteriorated walls and/or ceilings; e) Water leaks;
f) Water intrusion; g) Water damage; h) Excessive moisture; i) Toxic mold
causing mold spores to float in the air and be inhaled by plaintiffs, thereby
causing serious medical and health problems; j) Leaking pipes in the parking
lot; k) Large amounts of trash strewn across the common areas of the property,
which exacerbate the insect infestations noted above; l) An unsafe laundry
room; and m) Building code and health and safety code violations.” (Complaint, ¶ 14.)
 
“As alleged herein, notice of the
materially defective conditions was given to Defendants within a reasonable
time after the plaintiffs discovered or should have discovered the breaches of
warranty. Defendants have had actual and constructive knowledge of the
materially defective conditions affecting habitability, and were given a
reasonable time to correct them, but failed to remedy them.” (Complaint, ¶ 24.)
 
“Defendants received citations by the
Los Angeles County Environmental Health Services Department for numerous
violations of applicable health and safety codes on or about April 11, 2022;
June 13, 2023; and November 8, 2023. Notwithstanding the receipt of these
formal citations, Defendants failed to timely make repairs for a period of more
than 35 days after service of citations upon Defendants, and the delay was
without good cause.” (Complaint, ¶
44.)
 
“Defendants’ acts, omissions and conduct
were a direct, substantial, legal and proximate cause of and factor in the
injuries, damages and harm to Plaintiffs who have suffered, and will continue
to suffer from, including but not limited to: pain and suffering; injury to
Plaintiffs’ physical health and activity; shock to Plaintiffs’ nervous system;
emotional distress; irritation; anguish, fright; anger; anxiety; sadness;
insomnia; allergies; coughing; watery eyes; congestion; mental suffering;
medical expenses; and inconvenience.” (Complaint,
¶ 16.)
 
“The aforementioned acts of Defendants
were done maliciously, oppressively, fraudulently, recklessly and with the
intent to cause injury to or deprive Plaintiffs of their legal rights or with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights of Plaintiffs. Defendants'
conduct was despicable and subjected Plaintiffs to cruel and unjust hardship.
Indeed, even though Defendants and their agents were aware of dangerous
conditions at the Property, some of which were directly affecting the health of
the Plaintiffs, Defendants intentionally failed to make timely repairs and
proper repairs.” (Complaint, ¶
17.)
 
The Court finds these allegations are sufficient to support a claim for
punitive damages. Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged despicable conduct, malice
and oppression under Civ. Code § 3294. Plaintiff has alleged (1) uninhabitable
conditions on the Subject Property, (2) that Defendants had notice of the
conditions and failed to correct them while still collecting rent from
Plaintiffs, (3) that Defendants also failed to remedy the conditions after
receipt of notices of violations by housing authorities and (4) that as a
result of Defendants’ conduct, Plaintiffs’ sustained injuries. This factual
scenario is sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages at the pleading
stage. Pleading specific facts is not mandated for punitive damages, which
merely requires ultimate facts. The court in Perkins v. Superior Court
noted that “’the distinction between conclusions of law and ultimate facts is
not at all clear and involves at most a matter of degree’ [Citation.] . . . .
What is important is that the complaint as a whole contain sufficient facts to
apprise the defendant of the basis upon which the plaintiff is seeking relief.
[Citations.]” ((1981) 117 Cal.App.3d 1, 6–7.) Taken in context of the Complaint,
Plaintiffs have adequately pled a claim for punitive damages. The final
decision of “[w]hether to award punitive damages . . . and the amount of such
an award are questions committed to the trier of fact. [Citation.]” (Uzyel
v. Kadisha (2010) 188 Cal.App.4th 866, 925.) 
 
Accordingly, the
Court DENIES Defendants’ motion to strike. 
 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Defendants’
motion to strike is DENIED.