  Case Number:  20STCV41875    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  73 12/05/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
DUERSON v. CARTER, et al. (20STCV41875)
 
Counsel for Plaintiff/moving
party:  Mark Gomez (Gomez Law, APC)
Counsel for
Defendant/ opposing party: Timothy Carter (Pro Per)
 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEES (filed on 10/30/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Attorneys’ Fees is DENIED. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On November 2, 2024, Plaintiff Herschell Duerson, individually and
as Successor Trustee of the Marjorie Hubbard Revocable Living Trust u/a/d
October 5, 2018 brought this action against Defendants Timothy Carter; Bradley
Michael Staple; Staple’s Building Solutions; and Jess Staple.
 
On February 1, 2022, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) alleging the following causes of action: 
1.      Breach of
Contract
2.      Promissory
Estoppel
3.      Fraud
4.      Unjust
Enrichment
5.      Violation of
Business and Professions Code Section 7159.5(a)
 
The FAC alleges the following. Defendants fraudulently deceived
Marjorie Hubbard, an elderly woman, into entering into a written contract to
reconstruct her home, the Subject Property, that was destroyed by a fire. On or
about February of2019, Marjorie Hubbard paid the sum of $351,000.00 to Defendants
pursuant to the Agreement to repair fire damage and to reconstruct the Subject
Property. However, Plaintiff alleges Defendants never intended to perform the
reconstructions. Defendants failed to perform under the terms of the Agreement
and Defendants have not refunded the sum of $351,000.00.
 
On October 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion for
attorneys’ fees, arguing:
·      
The motion is made pursuant to California Civil Code § 3336 and is
based on the following grounds: (1) Plaintiff prevailed, in full, on the Breach
of Contract, Promissory Estoppel, Fraud, and Unjust Enrichment actions; (2)
judgment having been entered in Plaintiff’s favor, Plaintiff is entitled to
recover his attorney’s fees and costs incurred in this action under California
Civil Code § 3336; and (3) the fees and costs Plaintiff incurred in obtaining
the judgment in this action (and in seeking his attorney’s fees) are reasonable
and fully recoverable under California Code of Civil Procedure § 1033.5
(a)(10).
·      
Civil Code § 3336 and California Code of Civil Procedure §1033.5
(a)(10) collectively provide for the recovery of attorney’s fees in cases
involving fraud, deceit, and when authorized by statute or law.
·      
Plaintiff is entitled to attorney’s fees in the amount of $156,
289.04.
 
No opposition or reply were filed. 
 
II. DISCUSSION
 

Plaintiff seeks to recover attorney’s fees incurred in this action based
on California Civil Code § 3336 and California Code of Civil Procedure §1033.5
(a)(10). 
 
On August 12, 2024, judgment was entered in this case in Plaintiff’s
favor. Plaintiff prevailed on his Breach of Contract, Promissory Estoppel,
Fraud, and Unjust Enrichment causes of action. 
 
Plaintiff argues that under California Civil Code § 3336 a person
defrauded is entitled to compensation that includes the expenses incurred due
to fraud, including attorney’s fees. California Code of Civil Procedure §
1033.5 (a)(10) provides: “Attorney’s fees, when authorized by any of the
following: (A) Contract, (B) Statute, (C) Law.” Thus, Plaintiff asserts that the
attorney’s fees incurred are a direct and necessary result of Defendants’ fraud
and should be recoverable under these statutes.
 
However, the Court does not find that Plaintiff’s cited authority allows
an award of attorney’s fees related to the instant motion. 
 
California Civil Code § 3336 states: 
 
“The detriment caused by wrongful conversion of
personal property is presumed to be: 
 
First- The value of the property at the time of the
conversion, with the interest from that time, or, an amount sufficient to
indemnify the party injured for the loss which is the natural, reasonable, and
proximate result of the wrongful act complained of and which a proper degree of
prudence on his part would not have averted; and 
 
Second- A fair compensation for the time and money
properly expended in pursuit of the property.”
 
Therefore, California Civil Code § 3336 allows the recovery of damages for
the money expended in pursuit of converted property. However, it does not
mention recovery of attorney’s fees incurred due to fraud. 
 
Plaintiff also cites to Gray v. Don Miller & Assocs., Inc.
(1984) 35 Cal. 3d 498 in support of their assertion that attorney’s fees are
recoverable in cases involving fraud or deceit. But, Gray does not support
this assertion. 
 
In Gray, an unsuccessful purchaser of property brought an action
against a real estate brokerage, alleging that the real estate agent
misrepresented that vendors had accepted his offer. The court discussed whether
plaintiff could recover attorney’s fees because defendant, a fiduciary,
committed a fraud against him. (Gray, supra, 35 Cal.3d at 505.) However,
the court found that a plaintiff is not entitled to recover attorney fees as an
element of damages in actions for fraud in which the defendant is a fiduciary. Thus,
the court did not hold that attorney’s fees are recoverable in cases involving
fraud or deceit. Instead, the Gray court found that the plaintiff was
entitled to recover attorneys fees based on the “tort of another exception.” “[T]he
‘tort of another’ or ‘third party tort’ exception, allows a plaintiff attorney
fees if he is required to employ counsel to prosecute or defend an action
against a third party because of the tort of the defendant.” (Ibid.) This
is not applicable here as Plaintiff does not claim to have incurred legal fees
to prosecute or defend a third-party action because of the tortious conduct of
Defendants. As the Gray court stated: “Under the American rule, as
a general proposition each party must pay his own attorney fees. This concept
is embodied in section 1021 of the Code of Civil Procedure, which provides that each party is to bear his own attorney fees unless
a statute or the agreement of the parties provides otherwise.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, Plaintiff has not provided a statute or authority that would
entitle him to an award of attorney’s fees in this case. Therefore, Plaintiff’s
motion is DENIED. 
 
III.
DISPOSITION 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for
Attorneys’ Fees is DENIED. 
 
 