 Case Number:  21STCV45584    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving and late-filed opposing papers, the Court rules as
follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
December 14, 2021, Plaintiff Melissa Molina Ruiz (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Los Angeles County Metropolitan
Transportation Authority (“LACMTA”), City of Huntington Park, City of Los
Angeles, County of Los Angeles, California Department of Transportation, and
Does 1 to 50, for premises liability (dangerous condition of public property) under
Government Code sections 815,2 and 835. 
On
April 18, 2023, the City of Huntington Park filed an answer. 
On
April 21, 2023, the Court dismissed the County of Los Angeles without prejudice
at Plaintiff’s request. 
Also
on April 21, 2023, LACMTA filed an answer. 
On
July 13, 2023, the Court dismissed the City of Los Angeles without prejudice at
Plaintiff’s request. 
On August 17, 2023, LACMTA filed motions (1) to compel
responses to special interrogatories and for sanctions of $525, (2) to compel
responses to form interrogatories and for sanctions of $525, (3) to compel
responses to request for production of documents and for sanctions of $525, and
(4) to deem admitted the matters specified in requests for admission and for
sanctions of $525.  The motions were set
for hearing on September 25, 2023. 
On
September 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed (1) an opposition to the motion to compel responses
to the special interrogatories, form interrogatories, and request for
production of documents, and (2) an opposition to the motion to deem admitted
matters specified in the requests for admission. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for November 9, 2023. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
LACMTA
requests that the Court (1) issue an order compelling Plaintiff to serve full and
complete verified responses to special interrogatories, set one, form
interrogatories, set one, and request for production of documents, set one, and (2) deem admitted the matters specified in LACMTA’s requests for admission, set one.
 LACMTA also requests that the Court
impose $525 in sanctions on Plaintiff for each motion. 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court deny the motions and sanctions requests. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Interrogatories 
“Within
30 days after service of interrogatories, the party to whom the interrogatories
are propounded shall serve the original of the response to them on the propounding
party, unless on motion of the propounding party the court has shortened the
time for response, or unless on motion of the responding party the court has
extended the time for response.”  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 2030.260.) 
“If a party to whom
interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the following
rules apply: 
“(a) The
party to whom the interrogatories are directed waives any right to exercise the
option to produce writings under Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to
the interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection for
work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on
motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its determination that both
of the following conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance with
Sections 2030.210, 2030.220, 2030.230, and 2030.240. 
“(2) The
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The
party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order compelling response
to the interrogatories. 
“(c) The court shall impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or
attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey an order compelling
answers, the court may make those orders that are just, including the imposition
of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in addition to that
sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010). 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2030.290.) 
B.     Inspection
demand 
        “Within 30 days after service of a
demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling, the party to whom the
demand is directed shall serve the original of the response to it on the party
making the demand, and a copy of the response on all other parties who have
appeared in the action, unless on motion of the party making the demand, the
court has shortened the time for response, or unless on motion of the party to
whom the demand has been directed, the court has extended the time for
response.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.260,
subd. (a).) 
“If a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response to it, the
following rules shall apply: 
“(a) The party to whom the demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling is directed waives any objection to the demand,
including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product under
Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve
that party from this waiver on its determination that both of the following
conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230,
2031.240, and 2031.280. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The party making the demand may move for an order
compelling response to the demand. 
“(c) Except as provided in subdivision (d), the court
shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust. If a party then fails to obey the order compelling
a response, the court may make those orders that are just, including the
imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of or in
addition to this sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). 
“(d) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (c), absent
exceptional circumstances, the court shall not impose sanctions on a party or
any attorney of a party for failure to provide electronically stored
information that has been lost, damaged, altered, or overwritten as a result of
the routine, good faith operation of an electronic information system. 
“(2) This subdivision shall not be construed to alter
any obligation to preserve discoverable information.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.300.) 
C.      Requests for admission 
“If a party to whom
requests for admission are directed fails to serve a timely response, the
following rules apply: 
“(a) The
party to whom the requests for admission are directed waives any objection to
the requests, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work
product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010). The court, on
motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its determination that both
of the following conditions are satisfied: 
“(1) The
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance with
Sections 2033.210, 2033.220, and 2033.230. 
“(2) The
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
“(b) The
requesting party may move for an order that the genuineness of any documents
and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, as
well as for a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section
2023.010). 
“(c) The
court shall make this order, unless it finds that the party to whom the
requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the
motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in
substantial compliance with Section 2033.220. It is mandatory that the court
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to
requests for admission necessitated this motion.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280.) 
D.   Discovery sanctions 
“The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering
that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney
advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The court may
also impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has
engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised
that assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any
provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030,
subd. (a).) 
“Misuses of the discovery process include, but are not
limited to, the following: 
“(a) Persisting, over objection and without
substantial justification, in an attempt to obtain information or materials
that are outside the scope of permissible discovery. 
“(b) Using a discovery method in a manner that
does not comply with its specified procedures. 
“(c) Employing a discovery method in a manner or
to an extent that causes unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression,
or undue burden and expense. 
“(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized
method of discovery. 
“(e) Making, without substantial justification,
an unmeritorious objection to discovery. 
“(f) Making an evasive response to discovery. 
“(g) Disobeying a court order to provide
discovery. 
“(h) Making or opposing, unsuccessfully and without
substantial justification, a motion to compel or to limit discovery. 
“(i) Failing to confer in person, by telephone,
or by letter with an opposing party or attorney in a reasonable and good faith
attempt to resolve informally any dispute concerning discovery, if the section
governing a particular discovery motion requires the filing of a declaration
stating facts showing that an attempt at informal resolution has been made.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §2023.010,
subd. (d).) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   LACMTA’s moving papers 
LACMTA
asserts that on May 1, 2023, it served special interrogatories, set one, form
interrogatories, set one, request for production of documents, set one, and
requests for admission, set one, on Plaintiff. 
The parties agreed to continue the deadline for Plaintiff’s responses to
July 28, 2023.  Plaintiff had not
provided any responses by the time LACMTA filed its motions on August 17, 2023. 
B.   Plaintiff’s opposition papers 
1.    Plaintiff’s oppositions are untimely 
“Papers
opposing a motion must be served and filed at least 9 court days before the
hearing, unless the court permits a shorter time.”  (L. Edmon & C. Karnow, Cal. Practice
Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023) ¶ 9:104, p. 9(l)-92, emphasis
omitted (Cal. Practice Guide), citing Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b) &
Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300(a).) 
Plaintiff
filed her oppositions on September 20, 2023, two court dates before the hearing
on the motions.  (September 22, 2023 was
a court holiday.) 
The
Court has discretion to consider late-filed papers.  (See Cal. Practice Guide, supra,
¶¶ 9:105.4-9.105.5, pp. 9(l)-93 to 9(l)-94.)  The
Court may grant a continuance if needed. 
(Id., ¶ 9:105.5, p. 9(l)-94.)   
2.    Plaintiff asserts she served discovery responses on
September 18, 2023 
In
her late-filed oppositions to LACMTA’s motions, Plaintiff states that her
counsel was unable to locate her until recently because Plaintiff’s phone was
shut off.  According to Plaintiff, on
September 18, 2023, she served verified responses to the special interrogatories,
form interrogatories, request for production of documents, and requests for
admission.  Plaintiff does not state
whether she objected to any of the interrogatories or requests for production
of documents and does not provide copies of these responses.  Plaintiff contends that her responses to the
requests for admission (which she attached to her opposition) are substantially
code-compliant. Therefore, Plaintiff argues, the motions are moot and the Court
should not impose sanctions because counsel was diligent in trying to locate
Plaintiff. 
C.   Analysis 
1.    Interrogatories 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2030.290 provides that where, as here, “a party to
whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,” that party
“waives . . . any objection to the interrogatories, including one based on
privilege or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing
with Section 2018.010).”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).)  
“The court, on motion, may relieve that party from
this waiver on its determination that both of the following conditions are
satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2030.210, 2030.220, 2030.230, and
2030.240. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290,
subd. (a).)  
          Plaintiff has not filed a motion under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2030.290, subdivision (a), asking the Court to relieve her
from the waiver resulting from the failure to serve a timely response to the special
and form interrogatories.  (See Cal.
Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 8:1003, p. 8F-31 [“A noticed motion for relief
from waiver is required.  (I.e., such
relief cannot be granted ex parte, or where the only motion pending is a motion
to compel.)”].)  Therefore, if Plaintiff
asserted objections in her responses to the special or form interrogatories,
the responses do not render LACMTA’s motions to compel responses to these
interrogatories moot. 
          “The motion to compel [responses to interrogatories] may be
heard even if tardy responses are served after the motion is filed.  Unless the propounding party takes the matter
off calendar, the court may determine whether the responses are legally
sufficient and award sanctions for the failure to respond on time.”  (Cal. Practice Guide, supra, ¶ 8:1137, p. 8F-58, citing Sinaiko
Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148
Cal.App.4th 390, 410-411.)  “Many courts will not rule on the adequacy of the
responses filed before the hearing, because those issues have not been briefed,
there is no separate statement as to those issues, and usually the parties have
not met and conferred in an effort to reduce issues to be decided.  Those courts still will decide the sanctions
issues.”  (Id., ¶ 8:1137, p. 8F-59.)  
          Plaintiff has not informed the Court if she asserted
objections to the form or special interrogatories.  In addition, due to Plaintiff’s late filing
of her opposition, LACMTA has not had an opportunity to file a reply.  Therefore, the Court continues the hearing on
the motions to compel responses to the special and form interrogatories. 
2.    Request for production of documents 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.300 provides that where, as here, “a party to
whom a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails
to serve a timely response to it,” that party “waives any objection to the
demand, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product
under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010).” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.300, subd. (a).) 
“The court, on motion, may relieve that party from
this waiver on its determination that both of the following conditions are
satisfied: 
“(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2031.210, 2031.220, 2031.230,
2031.240, and 2031.280. 
“(2) The party’s failure to serve a timely response
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,
subd. (a).) 
Plaintiff
has not filed a motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.300,
subdivision (a), asking the Court to relieve her from the waiver resulting from
the failure to serve a timely response to the request for production of documents.  (See Cal. Practice Guide, supra,
¶ 8:1465, p. 8H-21 [to obtain relief from
waiver, party must file noticed motion supported by declarations showing the
delay resulted from mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect].) Therefore,
if Plaintiff asserted objections in her response to the request for production
of documents, the response does not render LACMTA’s motion to compel responses
to the request for production of documents moot. 
          Plaintiff has not informed the Court if she asserted
objections to request for production of documents.  In addition, due to
Plaintiff’s late filing of her opposition, LACMTA has not had an opportunity to
file a reply.  Therefore, the Court
continues the hearing on the motion to compel responses to the request for
production of documents. 
3.    Requests for admission 
“If,
as here, a party to whom requests for admission are directed fails to serve a
timely response, . . .  * * *
“(b) The requesting party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010). 
“(c) The court shall make this order, unless it finds
that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220. It is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280,
subds. (b), (c).) 
Plaintiff
asserts that her response to the requests for admission, served on September
18, 2023 (and attached to her opposition), are substantially code-compliant.  Due to Plaintiff’s late filing of her
opposition, however, LACMTA has not had an opportunity to file a reply.  Therefore, the Court continues the hearing on
the motion to deem admitted the matters specified in LACMTA's requests for admission. 
D.   Sanctions 
The
Court continues the hearing on LACMTA’s requests for sanctions to give LACMTA
an opportunity to file a reply to Plaintiff’s oppositions if it wishes. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court CONTINUES the hearing on Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority’s motion to compel responses to special interrogatories and
for sanctions of $525.
The
Court CONTINUES the hearing on Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority’s motion to compel responses to form interrogatories and for
sanctions of $525. 
The
Court CONTINUES the hearing on Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s motion to compel
responses to request for production of documents and for sanctions of $525.
The
Court CONTINUES the hearing on Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation
Authority’s motion to deem admitted matters specified in requests for
admission and for sanctions of $525. The Court CONTINUES the hearing on Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority's requests for sanctions. The Court will provide a date for the continued hearing at the September 25, 2023 hearing. 
Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority may file a reply to Plaintiff Melissa Molina Ruiz's oppositions at least five days before the continued
hearing. 
Moving
party is to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is to file a proof of service of this ruling within 5 court days.