 Case Number:  22STCV00603    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
January 6, 2022, Plaintiff Alen Vartanian (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants City of Glendale (“Defendant”) and Does 1-60 for general
negligence and premises liability.  The
complaint does not assert that Plaintiff submitted a claim to Defendant before
filing suit. 
On
June 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed a proof of service showing personal service of
the summons and complaint on Defendant on June 22, 2023. 
On
July 24, 2023, Defendant filed a declaration stating it was entitled to a
30-day extension of time to file a demurrer and motion to strike because its
efforts to meet and confer with Plaintiff were unsuccessful. 
On
August 23, 2023, Defendant filed a demurrer and a motion to strike, to be heard
on September 25, 2023.  Plaintiff has not
filed an opposition. 
No trial
date is currently scheduled. 
PARTY’S REQUESTS 
Defendant
requests that the Court sustain the demurrer to the cause of action for general
negligence.  Defendant also requests that
the Court strike the reference to negligence and willful failure to warn in the
premises liability claim. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A.   Demurrer 
“The party against whom a complaint or cross-complaint
has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided in Section 430.30,
to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds: 
“(a) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of
the cause of action alleged in the pleading. 
“(b) The person who filed the pleading does not have
the legal capacity to sue. 
“(c) There is another action pending between the same
parties on the same cause of action. 
“(d) There is a defect or misjoinder of parties. 
“(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. 
“(f) The pleading is uncertain. As used in this
subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible. 
“(g) In an action founded upon a contract, it cannot
be ascertained from the pleading whether the contract is written, is oral, or
is implied by conduct. 
“(h) No certificate was filed as required by Section
411.35.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10.) 
In a
demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or by judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a) [“When any ground
for objection to a complaint, cross-complaint, or answer appears on the face
thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take judicial
notice, the objection on that ground may be taken by a demurrer to the
pleading”].) 
“For
the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded (i.e., all ultimate
facts alleged, but not conclusions, deductions, or conclusions of facts or
law).”  (L. Edmon
and C. Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2023)
¶ 7:43, p. 7(l)-25, emphasis omitted (Cal. Practice Guide).)  
B.       Motion to strike 
“Any
party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a
notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof . . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The Court may “[s]trike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  “The
grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged
pleading of from any matter of which the court is required to take judicial
notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).) 
“Where the motion to strike is based on matter of which the court may
take judicial notice pursuant to Section 452 or 453 of the Evidence Code, such
matter shall be specified in the notice of motion, or in the supporting points
and authorities, except as the court may otherwise permit.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (b).)
DISCUSSION 
A.   Defendant's demurrer 
Defendant
demurs to the second cause of action for general negligence, arguing that, as a
public entity, it cannot be liable for a tort unless a statute imposes liability.  (See Gov. Code, § 815, subd. (a) [“Except as
otherwise provided by statute: (a) A public entity is not liable for an injury,
whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the public entity or a
public employee or any other person”].) 
Defendant
also argues that Plaintiff’s negligence allegations amount to a claim for a dangerous
condition of public property under Government Code sections 830-835.4, not
negligence. 
Defendant
has not stated a basis for demurrer.  “Any
valid cause of action overcomes [a] demurrer. 
It is not necessary that the cause of action be the one intended by plaintiff.  The test is whether the complaint states any
valid claim entitling plaintiff to relief. 
Thus, plaintiff may be mistaken as to the nature of the case, or the
legal theory on which plaintiff can prevail. 
But if the essential facts of some valid cause of action are alleged,
the complaint is good against a general demurrer.”  (Cal. Practice
Guide, supra, ¶ 7:41, pp. 7(l)-21 to 7(l)-22, emphasis omitted.)  
Defendant
concedes that the complaint states a claim for a dangerous condition of public
property under Government Code sections 830-835.4.  Therefore, the Court overrules the demurrer. 
B.   Defendant's motion to strike 
The first cause of action in Plaintiff's Judicial
Council form complaint is for premises liability.  Within that cause of action, the complaint
includes “Count 1—Negligence,” “Count 2—Willful Failure to Warn [Civil Code
section 846]” and “Count 3—Dangerous Condition of Public Property.”  The complaint’s second cause of action is for
negligence. 
As in
the demurrer, Defendant contends: “Plaintiff’s allegations amount to a claim
for an alleged dangerous condition of public property, not negligence. The
applicable statutory authority for that claim is found in Government Code
sections 830–835.4.  Accordingly, ‘Dangerous Condition of Public Property,’ not ‘General
Negligence,’ is the proper claim based on Plaintiff’s allegations, which
Plaintiff has already brought as Count Three of this same cause of action.”  (Motion to Strike p. 4.)  
Based
on these contentions, Defendant asks the Court to strike (1) the negligence count
(Count 1) in the first cause of action and (2) the second cause of action for
negligence. 
In
addition, Defendant argues that a claim for “willful failure to warn” is based
on Civil Code section 846, which does not apply to public entities.  (See Delta Farms Reclamation Dist. v.
Superior Court (1983) 33 Cal.3d 699, 704-710.)  Defendant therefore asks the Court to strike the
willful failure to warn count (Count 2) in the first cause of action. 
The
Court concludes that Plaintiff has improperly pleaded the negligence and willful
failure to warn counts in the premises liability claim and the negligence claim
because Defendant is a public entity. 
Therefore, the Court strikes these portions of the complaint. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court OVERRULES Defendant City
of Glendale’s demurrer to Plaintiff Alen Vartanian’s claim for general
negligence. 

The Court GRANTS Defendant City of Glendale’s motion
to strike portions of Plaintiff Alen Vartanian’s complaint.  The Court strikes (1) “Count 1—Negligence” in the first cause of action for
premises liability, (2) “Count 2—Willful Failure to Warn [Civil Code section
846]” in the first cause of action for premises liability, and (3) the second
cause of action for negligence.  The Court
grants Plaintiff 30 days leave to amend. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days of the date of the hearing.