 Case Number:  22STCV00677    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  28 Having
considered the moving, opposing and reply papers, the Court rules as follows. 
BACKGROUND 
On
January 7, 2022, Plaintiff Alfonso Leon Baltazar (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendants Flex Drive Services, LLC (“Flexdrive”),
Lyft, Inc. (“Lyft”), Lael Williams (“Williams”), and Does 1-50 for negligence
and negligence per se. 
On
February 14, 2022, Flexdrive and Williams filed an answer.  On May 20, 2022, Lyft filed an answer. 
On
August 25, 2023, Flexdrive filed a motion for leave to file an amended answer,
to be heard on September 25, 2023. On September 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed an
opposition. On September 15, 2023, Flexdrive filed a reply. 
Trial
is currently scheduled for April 17, 2024. 
PARTIES’ REQUESTS 
Flexdrive
requests leave to file and serve the proposed first amended answer. 
Plaintiff
requests that the Court deny the motion. 
LEGAL STANDARD 
“The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 473,
subd. (a)(1).) 
“Any
judge, at any time before or after commencement of trial, in the furtherance of
justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may allow the amendment of any
pleading or pretrial conference order.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 576; see Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324.) 
“ ‘While
a motion to permit an amendment to a pleading to be filed is one addressed to
the discretion of the court, the exercise of this discretion must be sound and
reasonable and not arbitrary or capricious. [Citations.] And it is a rare case
in which “a court will be justified in refusing a party leave to amend his
pleadings so that he may properly present his case.” [Citations.] If the motion
to amend is timely made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the
opposing party, it is error to refuse permission to amend and where the refusal
also results in a party being deprived of the right to assert a meritorious
cause of action or a meritorious defense, it is not only error but an abuse of
discretion. [Citations.]’”  (Redevelopment
Agency v. Herrold (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 1024, 1031, quoting Morgan v.
Superior Court (1959) 172 Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) 
DISCUSSION 
A.   The complaint 
In
his complaint, Plaintiff alleges the following: 
On or
about June 19, 2021, Williams failed to yield the right of way to oncoming
traffic and made a left turn in his vehicle in front of Plaintiff’s vehicle,
which was approaching from the opposite direction and was close enough to
constitute a hazard.  As a result, the
vehicles collided, injuring Plaintiff and his property.   Williams violated Vehicle Code section 21801 by failing to yield the
right of way to oncoming traffic which was close enough to constitute a hazard. 
Williams
was operating his vehicle with the express or implied authority and permission
of Flexdrive, as Flexdrive’s agent or employee, and within the course and scope
of his agency or employment with Flexdrive. 
Flexdrive
knew or should have known that Williams was unfit to operate the vehicle and
was therefore negligent in hiring, retaining, training, and entrusting the
vehicle to Williams. 
B.   Flexdrive’s answer 
Flexdrive’s
February 14, 2022 answer denies Plaintiff’s allegations and asserts fifteen
affirmative defenses. 
C.   Flexdrive’s motion to amend the answer 
Flexdrive
seeks leave to amend its answer to include two additional affirmative defenses.  The first asserts that Flexdrive is not
liable to Plaintiff because, under the Graves amendment (49 U.S.C. § 30106), an
owner/lessor of a motor vehicle that rents or leases the vehicle to a person
shall not be liable under state law by reason of being the vehicle’s owner for
harm to persons that results from or arises out of the use, operation, or
possession of the vehicle during the period of the rental or lease if the owner
is engaged in the trade or business of renting or leasing motor vehicles and there
is no negligence or criminal wrongdoing on the part of the owner. 
The
second proposed affirmative defense asserts that Flexdrive has complied with
its obligations under Vehicle Code sections 14608-14609 and therefore cannot be
liable for negligent entrustment. 
In
support of the motion, Flexdrive has submitted a declaration by its counsel stating
that new counsel for Flexdrive substituted into the case on April 14, 2023 and
identified the proposed affirmative defenses as complete defenses to the
action.  (Manchester Dec. ¶ 3.)  On May 10, 2023, Flexdrive's counsel met and conferred with Plaintiff’s
counsel about the proposed affirmative defenses.  (Manchester
Dec. ¶ 6.)  
On
May 12, 2023, when counsel could not reach an agreement on amending Flexdrive’s
answer to include the proposed affirmative defenses, Flexdrive reserved the
first available hearing date, September 25, 2023, for a motion for leave to
amend the answer.  (Manchester Dec. ¶ 5.)  On July 31, 2023, Flexdrive’s counsel sent
meet and confer correspondence to Plaintiff’s counsel about the Graves
amendment affirmative defense but Plaintiff’s counsel did not respond.  (Manchester Dec. ¶ 7.) 
Trial
is scheduled for April 14, 2023. 
Flexdrive has reserved a hearing on February 22, 2024 for a summary
judgment motion based on the two proposed affirmative defenses.  Flexdrive’s counsel believes that Plaintiff
has ample opportunity to conduct discovery about the proposed affirmative
defenses before the deadline for his opposition to the summary judgment motion.
(Manchester Dec. ¶ 8.) 
D.   Plaintiff’s opposition to the motion 
Plaintiff
contends Flexdrive delayed in filing its motion because Flexdrive and its
predecessor counsel have “known the facts of this case since its inception.” According
to Plaintiff, Williams rented a vehicle from Flexdrive while driving for Lyft,
negligently failed to yield the right of way to Plaintiff while making a left
turn, and collided with Plaintiff. 
(Opposition p. 3.)  These facts
have not changed. 
E.   Analysis 
Plaintiff
does not provide any support for the suggestion that an answer may be amended based
only on new facts.  In Win Hong
Sang Market, Inc. v. Peng (2018) 20
Cal.App.5th 474, which Plaintiff cites, the Court of Appeal rejected a
challenge to the trial court’s order allowing the defendant to amend her answer
to include a res judicata defense.  In
the part of the decision Plaintiff cites, the Court of Appeal observed
that, “as a practical matter, Peng could not have asserted a res judicata
defense when she first filed her answer because there was no judgment at the
time in the unlawful detainer action.”  (Id.
at p. 488.)  However, the Court of Appeal
went on to explain that, “while Peng did not seek to raise a res judicata
defense until over 10 months later, when the matter was set for trial, we fail
to see how Hong Sang was prejudiced by any delay in Peng's pursuit of a res
judicata defense” because “[t]he issue was purely legal in nature.”  (Ibid.)  Moreover, “Hong Sang was afforded an
opportunity to respond to the res judicata defense both in its trial brief and
in an opposition to an in limine motion. Under the circumstances, we discern no
abuse of discretion in permitting Peng to assert a res judicata defense on the
eve of trial.”  The decision does not
hold that new facts are required to amend an answer. 
Plaintiff
also argues that amendment of the answer to include the two proposed affirmative
defenses would prejudice him because two depositions of Williams have already
taken place.  According to Plaintiff, he
would require leave of Court to now “further question” Williams about what Plaintiff describes as the “agency, co-adventurer, partnership”
relationship between Flexdrive and Lyft.  
Yet one
of those depositions took place on June 6, 2023, after Flexdrive had met
and conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel about the proposed affirmative defenses
on May 10, 2023.  Plaintiff does not
explain why he did not question Williams about the alleged “agency, co-adventurer, partnership” relationship between
Flexdrive and Lyft at that deposition.  
In
addition, at the previous session of Williams’s deposition on November 29, 2022,
Williams “impliedly testified . . . that
he believed Flex Drive was owned or affiliated with Lyft.”  (Opposition p. 5 [Question: “And do you know
who the owner of that vehicle is?” 
Answer: “Lyft, their Flex Drive or whoever I rented it from”].)  Plaintiff does not explain why amendment of
Flexdrive’s answer to include the proposed affirmative defenses would create a
need to further question Williams about his understanding of the alleged
“agency, co-adventurer, partnership” relationship between Flexdrive and Lyft and
why that need did not exist during the November 29, 2022, deposition.  The Court concludes that Plaintiff has not established prejudice.
Last,
Plaintiff contends that the proposed affirmative defenses are meritless because
Flexdrive rents or leases cars only to Lyft drivers, offers the drivers
benefits, and has a “partnership and relationship with Lyft.”  (Opposition p. 7.) Plaintiff has not shown
why these alleged facts, if true, would prevent Flexdrive from alleging and
proving the facts needed to establish the existence of the proposed affirmative
defenses.  (The Court does not, however,
express an opinion on the application of these affirmative defenses.)
  The
Court grants the motion. 
CONCLUSION 
The
Court GRANTS Defendant Flex Drive Services, LLC’s motion for leave to file a first
amended answer.  Flexdrive is ordered to
file and serve the first amended answer within 30 days of the hearing on the
motion.  Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
Moving
party is ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.