 Case Number:  22STCV05857    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2023    Dept:  28  



DEPARTMENT


28




HEARING DATE


September
  25, 2023




CASE NUMBER


22STCV05857




MOTION


Motion to compel further responses to demand for production
  of documents contained in deposition notice and request for $2,300 in
  sanctions




MOVING PARTY


Defendant County of Los Angeles




 


Plaintiff Jeffrey Volpei (non-opposing)



  
On February
15, 2022, Plaintiff Jeffrey Volpei (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants County of Los Angeles (“Defendant”) and Does 1-50 for dangerous
condition of public property (Gov. Code, §§ 830.6, 835) and dangerous condition
of public property—failure to warn (Gov. Code, §§ 830.8, 835). 
On
April 21, 2022, Defendant/Cross-Complainant County of Los Angeles filed an answer
and a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Tomas Hernandez (“Hernandez”) and
Roes 1-50 for implied indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief.  On June 29, 2022, Hernandez filed an answer. 
On
October 31, 2022, the Court granted Hernandez’s motion for a determination that
his settlement with Plaintiff was in good faith and denied the motion of Defendant/Cross-Complainant County of Los Angeles for a finding that the settlement was not in good faith. 
On
January 31, 2023, the Court dismissed Hernandez from the cross-complaint with
prejudice at the request of Defendant/Cross-Complainant County of Los Angeles. 
On
July 6, 2023, Defendant filed a motion to compel Plaintiff to provide further
responses to requests for production of documents contained in Defendant’s notice
of deposition of Plaintiff and for sanctions. 
The Court continued the hearing from September 6, 2023 to September 25,
2023.  Plaintiff has not filed an
opposition.  
PROCEDURAL REQUIREMENTS 
A.      Informal
Discovery Conference 
The
Eighth Amended Standing Order for Procedures in the Personal Injury Hub Courts
Effective October 10, 2022 (Filed September 20, 2022), ¶ 9E, provides: “PI Hub
Courts will not hear Motions to Compel Further Discovery Responses to Discovery
until the parties have engaged in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC).  PI Hub Courts may deny or continue a Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Discovery if parties fail to schedule and
complete an IDC before the scheduled hearing on a Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Discovery.” 
The
parties participated in an IDC on September 21, 2023.  At the IDC, Plaintiff’s counsel agreed to provide
responsive documents, without objections, by September 25, 2023, and submitted
on Defendant's motion to compel further discovery responses. 
B.       Timeliness
of Motion 
“Unless
notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified response,
or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific later date
to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in writing,
the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (c).) 
On
February 16, 2023, Defendant propounded requests for production of documents as
part of the notice of Plaintiff’s deposition. 
On May 19, 2023, Plaintiff produced responses.  Defendant filed this motion on July 6, 2023.  The motion appears to be two days late.  However, Plaintiff does not dispute the
timeliness of the motion and his counsel submitted on the motion at the Informal
Discovery Conference.  The Court finds
that Plaintiff has waived any objection to the untimely filing of the motion. 
C.   Meet and Confer 
“A
motion to compel must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2016.040.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (b)(1), 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)  “A meet and confer declaration must state
facts showing a reasonable and good-faith attempt at an informal resolution of
each issue presented by the motion.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.040.)  
On
June 2, 2023, Defendant wrote to Plaintiff attempting to meet and confer about
the deficiencies in Plaintiff’s document production. Defendant did not receive
a response by the time it filed its motion on July 6, 2023.  (Declaration of Jessica C. Covington
(Covington Dec.) ¶ 13.) 
On
June 15, 2023, Defendant electronically served a notice of an Informal Discovery Conference regarding the document
production on Plaintiff.  Defendant also
reiterated to Plaintiff that it remained open to discussion to resolve these
matters prior to Court involvement.  Plaintiff
did not respond. 
The
Court finds that Defendant made adequate efforts to meet and confer with Plaintiff. 
D.      Separate Statement 
With
exceptions that do not apply here, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a),
requires that a motion involving the content of discovery contain a separate
statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of
factual and legal reasons for why an order compelling further responses is
warranted.  
Defendant
did not file a separate statement.  However,
Plaintiff does not challenge the motion based on the lack of a separate
statement and his counsel submitted on the motion at the Informal Discovery
Conference.  The Court finds that
Plaintiff has waived any objection to the lack of a separate statement.    
APPLICABLE
LAW 
A.      Failure of party deponent to produce
documents 
Defendant
cites Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310 as authority for its
motion.  Section 2031.310 governs motions
to compel responses to inspection demands. 
Here, Defendant’s request for production of documents was contained in
the deposition notices it served on Plaintiff. 
Therefore, it appears that Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 provides
the authority for Defendant’s motion.  
The
statute provides in part: 
“(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party
to the action . . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section
2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce
for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move
for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the
production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. 
“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with
both of the following: 
“(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing
good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice. 
“(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to
attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance. 
* * *
 “(g) (1) If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted,
the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against
the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the
court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. . . .” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subds. (a), (b), (g)(1).) 
B.
Discovery sanctions 
“The
court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse
of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay
the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a
result of that conduct. The court may also impose this sanction on one
unsuccessfully asserting that another has engaged in the misuse of the
discovery process, or on any attorney who advised that assertion, or on both.
If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this title, the court
shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (a).) 
“Misuses
of the discovery process include, but are not limited to, the following: . . . (d)
Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010,
subd. (d).) 
DISCUSSION 
          Defendant does not explain how Plaintiff’s responses to specific
document requests were deficient. 
Instead, Defendant states generally: 
“On May 19, 2023, Plaintiff electronically served a
total of ninety-one pages of documents to County. All of the documents produced
appear to be from Pomona Valley Hospital. While Plaintiff did undergo two
separate surgeries at that facility, they each resulted in him staying at the
hospital for multiple days followed by physical therapy. It is highly unlikely
that the documents produced are the complete set of relevant bills and records.
Plaintiff did not provide documents evidencing payment by Plaintiff’s health
insurance for his treatment, Plaintiff’s out-of-pocket payments, or any
documents related to his physical therapy that took place at multiple other
locations. Plaintiff has similarly failed to provide documents or images
showing his injuries, damage to his motorcycle, or any evidence related to the
roadway as asserted by Plaintiff during his deposition. Further, Plaintiff has
not produced a single communication related to this action.” 
(Covington Dec. ¶ 11.) 
          Defendant has not provided a separate statement or any additional
information specifying (1) the document requests to which Defendant is moving
to compel a further response or (2) the deficiencies in the responses Plaintiff
previously provided. 
          As a result, the motion arguably does not “set forth
specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.310, subd. (b)(1).) 
          Nonetheless, as noted, Plaintiff’s counsel submitted on the
motion at the IDC and promised to provide responsive documents by September 25,
2023, the date of the hearing. 
          Therefore, the Court grants the motion and orders Plaintiff
to serve written responses, without objections, and all documents in his
possession, custody, or control responsive to Defendant’s requests for production
of documents contained in the deposition notice served on Plaintiff on May 10,
2023, which appears to be the last deposition notice Defendant served. 
          Defendant requests $2,300 in sanctions based on approximately
seven hours of attorney time meeting and conferring, preparing the motion to
compel further production of documents, counsel’s declaration, and proposed
order and four hours of attorney time drafting a reply and preparing for and
attending the hearing on this motion, one $60.00 filing fee, and $425.00 for
Plaintiff’s counsel’s last-minute cancellation of the March 27, 2023
deposition.  Counsel’s hourly rate is
$165. 
          The Court will not award sanctions based on time spent
meeting and conferring.  In addition, Defendant
did not file a reply and the cancellation fee does not fall within the issues
raised by Defendant’s motion. 
          The Court grants sanctions of $555 based on three hours of
attorney time and one filing fee. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS the County of Los Angeles’s motion to
compel Plaintiff Jeffrey Volpei to provide further responses to requests for
production of documents contained in Defendant’s notice of deposition of
Plaintiff.  Plaintiff is ordered to serve
written responses, without objections, and all documents in his possession,
custody, or control responsive to Defendant’s requests for production of
documents (contained in the deposition notice served on Plaintiff on May 10,
2023) within ten days of the hearing on this motion. 
The
Court GRANTS the County of Los Angeles’s request for sanctions and orders
Plaintiff and his counsel to pay Defendant $555 within 30 days of the hearing
on this motion. 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
Moving
party is ordered to file a proof of service of this ruling with the Court
within five days.