  Case Number:  22STCV33062    Hearing Date:   February 6, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     February
6, 2024                   TRIAL DATE: 
April 22, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                Peter Chen, et al. v. Maziar Yarahmadi
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV33062
 





















 
MOTION
TO CONTINUE TRIAL



 
MOVING PARTY:                   Defendant
Maziar Yarahmadi
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiffs Peter
Chen and Penny Chen
 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
            This is an action for nuisance and trespass. On October 7,
2022, Plaintiffs, Peter Chen and Penny Chen, filed a complaint against
Defendant, Maziar Yarahmadi, alleging that portions of Defendant’s property encroach
on the Plaintiffs’ property.  On December
8, 2022, Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended Complaint (FAC).  On January 31, 2023, Defendant filed an Answer
to the FAC.
 
            Defendant
now moves for an order continuing the trial date for at least 180 days and to
set all trial-related deadlines to the new trial date.  
 
            Plaintiffs
filed an opposition.  Defendant replied.
 
This is the first request for a trial continuance in this
matter.
 
II.           LEGAL STANDARD FOR MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL
California Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(b) outlines that “a party seeking a continuance of the date set for
trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by the parties, must
make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte
application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with supporting
declarations.  The party must make the motion or application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is
discovered.” 
Under California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332(c), the court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative
showing of good cause requiring the continuance.  Circumstances that may indicate good cause
include “a party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents,
or other material evidence despite diligent efforts.”  The court should
consider all facts and circumstances relevant to the determination, such as
proximity of the trial date, prior continuances, prejudice suffered, whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance, and whether the interests of
justice are served.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
III.      EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
            Plaintiffs
raise evidentiary objections to the Declaration of Terry J. Kent.   Plaintiffs fail to cite authority in support of
the proposition that a court must rule on evidentiary objections except when
raised in a motion for summary judgment or adjudication (CCP section 437c(q) or
in a special motion to strike (CCP section 425.16(b)(2)); see also Sweetwater
Union High Scholl Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th  931,
947-949.)   Moreover, the court does not rely upon the challenged
information and therefore need not address the objections.   
 
IV.       DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant argues
good cause exists to continue the trial date because he has been unable to
obtain essential discovery from third parties.  Specifically, Defendant has been unable to
obtain responsive documents from Plaintiffs’ contractor, TRK Construction, and
has prompted Defendant to file a motion to compel.  (Kent Decl., ¶¶ 8-12.)  Defendant has also encountered discovery
issues with other unnamed third parties to whom Plaintiffs allegedly paid
thousands of dollars because of the alleged encroachment.  (Id. at ¶ 13.)  Defendant argues the discovery is relevant to
Plaintiffs claimed damages.  Additionally,
Defendant has filed a motion for leave to file a cross-complaint which is set
for hearing on the second day of trial, April 23, 2024.  As such, Defendant requests a trial
continuance so that he may complete discovery and have his motion heard prior
to trial.  
 
            Plaintiffs argue
a trial continuance should not be granted because Defendant is feigning inability
to obtain discovery as a pretext to expand the scope of this litigation at the
eve of trial.
 
            Based on
the foregoing, the court a trial continuance is warranted.  Although vague in some respects, the
declaration of Defendant’s counsel establishes the need for and relevance of
the outstanding discovery.  Defendant is
entitled to learn the extent of Plaintiffs’ claimed damages, if any.  Defendant appears to have conducted discovery
diligently.  The parties have engaged in
two IDC’s.  Defendant’s motion for leave to
file a cross-complaint is still pending. 
 
Importantly, Plaintiffs do not demonstrate they will suffer
prejudice requiring a denial of this motion to continue the trial date.  This case has been at issue for little more
than a year.  There have been no other
continuances of the trial date.  For
these reasons, the court finds good cause exists to continue the trial
date.         
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
The motion is GRANTED. 
The Final Status Conference scheduled for April 8, 2024 is CONTINUED to October
8, 2024 at 10:00 AM.  The Non-Jury Trial scheduled for April 22, 2024 is
CONTINUED to October 22, 2024 at 8:30 AM.  All discovery cut-off dates,
all pretrial deadlines including discovery, expert, and motion cut-off dates
are continued to the new trial date of October 22, 2024.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   February 6,
2024                                            




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the
  Superior Court


 




 