 Case Number:  22SMCV02187    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative Ruling
WVM Holdings v. Noval, Case no.
22SMCV02187
Hearing date October 21, 2024
Defendants’
Motion to Quash, Modify and/or for Protective Order 
Plaintiff
WVM Holdings, LLC sued defendants Secured Capital Partners (“SCP”) and brothers
Victor Franco Noval (“Noval Jr.”) and Jake Noval, alleging fraudulent transfer.
A $1,000,000 judgment was entered on 1/31/2008 in favor of KGMAC, LLC against
Charles Dickens and Tower Park Properties, LLC in LASC Case no. BC339033 (the “Original
Action”). Plaintiff is assignee of KGMAC. Dickens and Victor Noval, Sr. (“Noval
Sr.”) were managing members of Tower Park when judgment was entered.
In
2008 Dickens and Noval Sr. filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy for Tower Park. One
of Tower Park’s assets is the “Mountain,” 157 acres in Beverly Hills. Dickens
and Noval Sr. allegedly sold parts of Tower Park’s interest in the Mountain to
a Kuwaiti investor. 
Plaintiff
alleges the Noval brothers, at the direction of their father, created sham
entities and trusts to conceal and protect the proceeds of the sale from
creditors, including plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges between 2010 and 2015 the
Kuwaiti investor wired over $100 million to Dickens and Noval Sr. via the sham
entities and trusts held in the names of the Noval brothers, even though it was
Tower Park’s interest in the Mountain that was sold to the Kuwaiti investor.
Plaintiff alleges defendants used part of the proceeds to purchase property in
Upland. On 3/22/2017 a renewed judgment of $1,915,089.80 was issued against
Tower Park and Dickens in the Original Action. 
Via
this action, plaintiff seeks to set aside the allegedly fraudulent transfers
related to the Upland property and any other assets the defendant Noval
brothers purchased with funds traceable to the sale. Plaintiff also seeks to
add the Noval brothers and SCP as judgment debtors to the renewed judgment. 
Plaintiff
served a subpoena on American Express (“Amex”) seeking financial records of defendants
Noval Jr., Jake Noval and SCP and non-parties Noval Sr., 8484 Wilshire Blvd.,
LLC, a subsidiary of SCP, and LA Stars, LLC, an entity owned by Noval, Sr. used
to hold his interest in judgment debtor Tower Park. The subpoena requests
records, account activity and communications/call logs of all six individuals/entities
from 6/1/10-present. Motion, Exh. A. 
Defendants
move to quash the subpoena or in the alternative to modify it to produce only
records evidencing payment on these accounts for five years prior to
commencement of this action (2017) to present. Defendants also seek a
protective order regarding any records produced. Plaintiff opposes with 1,708
pages of declarations and exhibits.
Standard
“[A]ny
consumer whose personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum and
who is a party to the civil action in which this subpoena duces tecum is
served may, prior to the date for production, bring a motion under Section
1987.1 to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum. Notice of the
bringing of that motion shall be given to the witness and deposition officer at
least five days prior to production.” Code Civ. Proc. §1985.3(g). The court has
authority to quash or modify a subpoena and enter a protective order. Code Civ.
Proc. §1987.1(a). 
The
parties disagree as to the applicable standard. Defendants assert plaintiff
must demonstrate a compelling interest. Plaintiff argues the California Supreme
Court disapproved of the compelling interest test in Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, and the court should apply the balancing test articulated
in Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Ass’n. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1.
The
only time a civil litigant must show a “compelling interest” to obtain information
during discovery is “[w]here the case involves an obvious invasion of an
interest fundamental to personal autonomy, e.g., freedom from involuntary
sterilization or the freedom to pursue consensual familial relationships.” Williams,
supra, 3 Cal.5th at 557. “If, in contrast, the privacy interest
is less central, or in bona fide dispute, general balancing tests are
employed.” Id. Financial documents are “informational” and only require
the balancing test. Id. 
Under
the Hill test, “[t]he party asserting a privacy right must establish a
legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of
privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is
serious.” Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 552. If the party makes
this showing, “[t]he party seeking information may raise in response whatever
legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the
party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same
interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy.” Id.
“A court must then balance these competing considerations.”  Id. “Integral to this balancing is
whether there are means to lessen the intrusion.” Id. 
“A
trial court must be mindful of the legislature’s preference for discovery over
trial by surprise, must construe the facts before it liberally in favor of
discovery, may not use its discretion to extend the limits on discovery beyond
those authorized by the legislature, and should prefer partial to outright
denials of discovery.” Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 552. When
the financial information goes directly to an issue in the case, it is a
reversible error to deny its production. Rawnsley v. Sup. Ct. (1986) 183
Cal. App.3d 86. 
Defendants’ Financial Records
Defendants
argue plaintiff cannot meet its burden in requesting defendants’ Amex records;
they assert financial documents are constitutionally protected, and plaintiff must
show the discovery is directly relevant. The court notes that SCP, a
corporation, has no constitutional right to privacy. See Roberts v.
Gulf Oil Corp. (1983) 147 Cal. App. 3d 770, 791. 
Further,
under Hill, defendants have the burden of demonstrating a legally
protected privacy interest, a reasonable expectation of privacy and a
threatened intrusion. Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 552. Though defendants
do not specifically argue the Hill factors, there is undisputedly a
privacy interest in personal financial information. Defendants also argue the
subpoena is overbroad, as it seeks documents covering 14 years.
Plaintiff
argues the financial records are relevant to its alter ego and fraud claims, as
it argues defendants Noval Jr., Jake Noval and SCP are alter-egos of Noval Sr. It
is reasonable to allow plaintiff to obtain financial records that could
identify an alter-ego relationship between defendants, and between defendants
and third parties. Further, as in Rawnsley, the financial information
goes to the core of the case. (1986) 183 Cal. App.3d 86. It would be
inappropriate to deny wholesale the requested discovery. See Id.
However,
defendants argue the scope should be narrowed to 2017 onwards. As plaintiff
offers no justification as to the 14-year period sought, such is overbroad,
absent substantial justification. The subpoena should be modified to allow
production of records from 2017 onward.
Third-Party Financial Records
Defendants
assert the records of the third-parties would not show a relationship between
defendants, those third parties and the senior judgment debtors. These
assertions are unavailing, as production of these records is the only way plaintiff
can substantiate its alter-ego assertions. Additionally, and important to the
court’s ruling, these “third parties” are not unrelated to the defendants: 
·        
8484
Wilshire, LLC is a subsidiary of defendant SCP controlled by defendant Noval
Jr. Decl. Holm ex. 4 - Noval Jr. Depo pp. 293-294;
·        
Noval
Sr., defendants’ father, is owner/managing member of judgment debtor TPP; his personal
expenses have been paid for by SCP since 2010. Id. at ex. 1 -
Declaration of Victorino Noval dated 3/7/2011 filed in TPP’s Bankruptcy, CACB
Case No. 2:08-bk-0298-BR, paras. 1-2.
·        
LA
Stars, LLC is an entity owned by Noval Sr. used to hold his interest in
judgment debtor TPP. Id.
Discovery
of third-party financial documents may be allowed. Hecht, Solberg, Robinson,
Goldberg & Bagley LLP v. Sup. Ct. (2006) 137 Cal. App. 4th 579. Of
course, a third-party has a privacy interest in financial records, so the court
must balance the privacy rights of those third parties against the legitimate discovery
rights of parties to the litigation.
Civil Code Section 3295 Motion
Defendant
argues the subpoena is invalid because plaintiff did not obtain a court order
prior to issuance and service of the subpoena. This argument is unavailing. The
Court of Appeal held in both Hecht and Rawnsley that a party need
not bring a Section 3295 motion to conduct financial discovery when the
information sought relates to issues in the case other than punitive damages. (2006)
137 Cal. App. 4th 579; (1986) 183 Cal. App.3d 86.
Service on Noval Sr.
Defendant
argues the subpoena is defective because Noval Sr. was not served personally
under Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §1985.3(b)(1) and was served via mail. Mtn. to Quash
ex. D. 
Plaintiff
argues Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §1985.3 allows for service via mail in accordance
with Cal. Code Civ. Proc. Chapter 5 §§1012-1013. The court agrees. Plaintiff
further argues substantial compliance with Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §1985.3 by serving
the subpoena on attorney Ronald Richards. “Substantial compliance, as the
phrase is used in the decisions, means actual compliance in respect to the
substance essential to every reasonable objective of the statute.” Malek v.
Blue Cross of California (2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 44, 72. Richards does not
represent Noval Sr. in this case; however, Richards fails to declare such in
his declaration. 
The
intention of the personal service requirement of Cal. Code Civ. Proc.
§1985.3(b)(1) is to ensure that third parties receive notice of a subpoena that
could intrude on their privacy interests. While Noval Sr. is not a party to
this action, he is heavily involved. US Mail notice on Noval Sr. is sufficient;
further, there is no prejudice to Noval Sr., as he has actual notice, and this
instant motion seeks to quash the subpoena as to his records.
Balancing
the equities, the court finds the requested records should be produced, and there
is no basis to quash the subpoena as to the non-parties.
Protective Order
Defendant
seeks a protective order in the event the court denies the motion and/or allows
modification of the subpoena. Plaintiff does not oppose such request, which is
reasonable and protects the right to financial privacy of the parties and
non-parties. 
 
The
motion to quash is DENIED. The motion to modify by limiting the scope of the
subpoena to 1/1/2017 onwards is GRANTED. Defendants’ request for a protective
order is GRANTED.