 Case Number:  22STCV17907    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  29 Bautista v.
LACMTA
Case No. 22STCV17907
Motion to Substitute Plaintiff’s Successor in
Interest
 
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On June 1, 2022, Cruz Bautista (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Los Angeles County Metropolitan Authority (“LACMA”), City of
Los Angeles, and County of Los Angeles (“County”)  for motor vehicle negligence and general
negligence causes of action arising out of a bus accident occurring on June 9,
2021.
 
On December 14, 2023, Plaintiff dismissed City of Los
Angeles.
 
On December 15, 2023, County filed an answer. On January
2, 2024, LACMA filed answer.
 
On April 18, 2024, counsel filed a notice of death
stating Plaintiff died on March 10, 2024.
 
On July 5, 2024, Petitioner Oscar Alejandro Osorio
Saavedra (“Petitioner”) filed this request to be substituted as successor in
interest for Plaintiff. No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
“A cause
of action that survives the death of the person entitled to commence an action
or proceeding passes to the decedent’s successor in interest . . . and an
action may be commenced by the decedent’s personal representatives or, if none,
by the decedent’s successor in interest.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.30.) 
After the death of a plaintiff, the court, on motion, shall allow a
pending action that does not abate to be continued by the decedent’s personal
representative or successor-in-interest. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.31.)  
The
person who seeks to commence or continue a pending action as the decedent’s
successor-in-interest shall execute and file an affidavit or declaration that
includes (1) the decedent’s name; (2) the date and place of decedent’s death;
(3) “No proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the
decedent’s estate”; (4) a copy of the final order showing the distribution of
the decedent’s cause of action to the successor-in-interest, if the decedent’s
estate was administered; (5) either the declarant is the decedent’s successor
in interest or the declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s
successor in interest, with facts in support thereof; (6) “No other person has
a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for
the decedent in the pending action or proceeding”; and (7) that the statements
are true, under penalty of perjury. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32, subd. (a).) 
The affidavit or declaration must attach a certified copy of the
decedent’s death certificate.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 377.32, subd. (c).)
 Discussion
Plaintiff filed this motion to substitute in
Oscar Alejandro Osorio Saavedra (“Petitioner”) as Plaintiff’s successor in
interest. Attached to said motion are the Declarations of Oscar Alejandro
Osorio Saavedra, Plaintiff’s husband, and Mahsa Farid, Plaintiff’s counsel. 
The declaration of Petitioner provides
necessary, statutory information under Code of Civil Procedure section 377.32.
Petitioner has satisfied all statutory and
procedural requirements.  Accordingly,
the motion is granted.
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS
the motion to substitute successor in interest.
Moving party is
ORDERED to give notice.