  Case Number:  19STCV38804    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  29 Hudson v. Alcala
19STCV38804
Defendants’ Motion
to Compel Plaintiff to Execute Authorization, or alternatively, Authorizing
Release of Plaintiff’s Medical Records
 
Tentative
 
The
motion is denied.
 
Background 
 
On October 30, 2019, Sherleen Hudson (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Mona Alcala, Carlos Alcala (collectively “Defendants”), and
Does 1 through 50 for negligence arising out of an automobile accident
occurring on October 30, 2017. 
 
On May 26, 2021, and February 14, 2022, Defendants filed answers.
 
On July 3, 2024, Defendants filed this motion seeking an order (1)
directing Plaintiff to sign a HIPPA Authorization for Release of Records or in
the alternative, (2) authorizing the Department of Veterans Affairs to release
Plaintiff’s medical records. 
 
No opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
 
The process by
which a party may obtain discovery from a person who is not a party
to the action is through a deposition subpoena. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010, subd. (b).)  Personal service of the deposition subpoena
on the non-party is required.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (b).)
“A deposition subpoena may command any of the following: (a) Only
the attendance and testimony of the deponent …. (b) Only the production of
business records for copying …. (c) The attendance and the testimony of
the deponent, as well as the production of business records, other documents,
electronically stored information, and tangible things.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2020.020.)
 
Except as specifically modified by the
Civil Discovery Act, the provisions of Code of Civil Procedure sections 1985
through 1997 apply to deposition subpoenas. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.030.)¿ 
 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 1987.1, subdivision (a), states:  
 
“If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including
unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.”  
 
Discussion
 
Motion to Compel Authorization
Defendants cite no statutory authority for an
order compelling a party to sign an authorization for the release of their
medical records, and the Court is aware of none.  Generally, courts lack the power to order
civil discovery by a method that is not authorized in the Code of Civil
Procedure.  (Haniff v. Super. Ct.
(2017) 9 Cal.App.5th 191, 200.)  
The Court is aware of two
cases that are potentially on point.  In both cases, the superior court had issued an order compelling a party
to provide an authorization for disclosure of medical records, but in neither case
did the Court of Appeal directly address whether the superior court had acted
properly in doing so (or had the authority to do so).  Rather, in Miranda v. 21st Century Ins.
Co. (2004), 117 Cal.App.4th 913, the Court of Appeal affirmed a sanction
against a party who had violated the court order to provide the authorization,
without ruling on whether the underlying order was properly issued.  And in Coats v. K-Mart Corp. (1989)
215 Cal.App.3d 961, the issue on appeal related to the statute of limitations,
although the superior court had issued an order for a
compelled authorization for the records of a decedent.  (The Court is also aware of a third case, Little
v. Superior Court (1968) 260 Cal.App.2d 311, in which the Court of Appeal
reversed (on other grounds) a judgment of contempt for failing to comply with
an order for a compelled authorization.) 
Of course, cases do not provide authority or guidance on issues that the
appellate court did not address or decide.
There is
a statutorily authorized procedure for obtaining records from a non-party: issuing and enforcing
a subpoena,
whether under Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.1 or section 2020.020.  Indeed, in the Miranda
case, the Court of Appeal was puzzled regarding why this standard procedure
had not been followed.  (Miranda,
supra, 117 Cal.App.4th at 918 fn. 2.) 
This alternative is discussed below. 

Given the absence of statutory authority to
compel an authorization and the presence of an express statutory alternative,
the Court DENIES Defendants’ motion for an order compelling
Plaintiff to provide an authorization for the release of her medical records to
Defendants.
 
Motion to Authorize the Department of Veterans Affairs to Release Records
Alternatively, Defendants request an order authorizing
the Department of Veterans Affairs to release Plaintiff’s medical records.  Such an order is not authorized by the Civil
Discovery Act.  If Defendants seek
records from a third party, they must issue a subpoena; if the third party does
not comply, Defendants can then bring a motion to obtain an order compelling
compliance with the subpoena.  Those are
the procedures set forth in the Code of Civil Procedure; Defendants cannot skip
over the step of issuing a subpoena and simply seek a Court order to authorize
or permit or compel a third party to take an action.  Absent a validly issued and served subpoena,
the Court has no jurisdiction to authorize or compel a third party to do
anything.
Accordingly, the Court DENIES the motion for an order
authorizing the Department of Veterans Affairs to release Plaintiff’s medical
records.
Conclusion
 
The Court DENIES
Defendants’ motion.
 
Moving party to provide
notice.