 Case Number:  21STCV43761    Hearing Date:   August 7, 2024    Dept:  29 Trejo v. Walmart
21STCV43761
Motion for Summary Judgment filed by Cross-Complainant Walmart, Inc.
 
Tentative
 
The motion is denied.
 
Background 
 
On December 1, 2021, Mercedes Marisol Trejo
("Plaintiff") filed a complaint against Walmart,
Inc. (“Walmart”), Rafael Garcia, and Does 1 through 30, asserting causes
of action for negligence and premises liability based on a slip and fall incident
in a Walmart store in West Covina on April 25, 2020.  
 
On January 5, 2022, Walmart filed an answer to the
complaint.
 
On March 8, 2022, the Court, at the request of Plaintiff,
dismissed all causes of action against Rafael Garcia with prejudice.
 
On May 24, 2022, Walmart filed a cross-complaint against
Schindler Elevator Corporation (“Schindler”) and Roes 1 through 25. 
 
On October 13, 2022, Plaintiff amended the complaint to
name Schindler as Doe 1.
 
Schindler filed answers to the complaint and
cross-complaint on November 16 and 23, 2022.
 
On March 27, 2023, Walmart amended its cross-complaint to
name TK Elevator Corporation (“TKE”) as Roe 1 and CBRE Group, Inc. (“CBRE”) as
Roe 2.
 
On May 12, 2023, CBRE filed its answer to Walmart’s cross-complaint.
 
On June 9, 2023, TKE filed an answer to Walmart’s
cross-complaint.  TKE also filed its own
cross-complaint against Roes 1 through 25.
 
On September 12, 2023, the Court, at the request of
Walmart, dismissed all causes of action in Walmart’s cross-complaint against
CBRE, without prejudice.
 
After obtaining leave from the Court, Walmart filed a
First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) on January 9, 2024.  The FACC asserts seven causes of action
against TKE and Roes 1 through 25: (1) Equitable Indemnity; (2) Comparative
Indemnity; (3) Breach of Express Contract; (4) Express Contractual Indemnity; (5)
Declaratory Relief; (6) Breach of Duty to Defend; and (7) Declaratory Relief –
Duty to Defend. 
 
On March 4, 2024, TKE filed an answer to the FACC. 
 
On April 9, 2024, Walmart filed this motion for summary
judgment against TKE. TKE filed an opposition and objections on July 5, 2024.  Walmart filed a reply on July 12. 
 
Legal Standard
 
“The purpose of the law of summary judgment
is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in
order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact
necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c),
“requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th
1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is
to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or
declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within
the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993)
12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991)
231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.)
 
As to each cause of action as framed by the
complaint, a defendant or cross-defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting
facts to show “that one or more elements of the cause of action ... cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra, 25
Cal.4th at pp. 850-851; Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th
1510, 1520.) Once the defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a “triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851.)
 
A plaintiff or cross-complainant moving for
summary judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of
proof by presenting facts to show “that there is no defense to a cause of
action if that party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling
the party to judgment on the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(1).) Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the
burden shift to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a “triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” (Ibid.)
 
The party opposing a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication may not simply “rely upon the allegations or
denials of its pleadings” but must instead “set forth the specific facts
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subds. (p)(1) & (p)(2). To establish a triable issue of material
fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive
evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.
(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
Objections to Evidence
 
TKE asserts ten objections to the Declaration of Michael
Richardson filed with the moving papers. 
Evidence
presented in support of, or in opposition to, a motion for summary judgment
must be admissible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d); Perry v. Bakewell Hawthorne LLC (2017) 2 Cal.5th 536, 541-43.) The court
must “consider all of the
evidence set forth in the papers, except the evidence to which objections have
been made and sustained.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).). 
 
The Court OVERRULES the objections. 
 
Discussion
Walmart,
as cross-complaint, moves for summary judgment on its cross-complaint against
TKE.
There are
at least two significant procedural issues with Walmart’s motion.
First,
although the caption of the motion states that Walmart is moving “For Summary
Judgment or in the Alternative Summary Adjudication,” the notice of motion and
motion refers only to summary judgment. 
Nothing in the notice of motion and motion identifies any issue as to
which Walmart seeks summary adjudication. 
Accordingly,
the Court must treat this as a motion for summary judgment.  Unless Walmart can show that it is entitled
to judgment as a matter of law on all seven causes of action asserted in the FACC,
the Court must deny the motion – as a motion for summary judgment motion must
completely resolve the entire action (or, in this case, the entire FACC).
Second,
and reinforcing this conclusion, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(b)
provides that when a party seeks summary adjudication, “the specific cause of
action, affirmative defense, claims for damages, or issues of duty must be stated
specifically in the notice of motion and be repeated, verbatim, in the separate
statement of undisputed material facts.” (California Rules of Court, rule
3.1350(b).) “The Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts in support of
a motion must separately identify: (A) Each cause of action, claim for damages,
issue of duty, or affirmative defense that is the subject of the motion; and (B)  Each supporting material fact claimed to be
without dispute with respect to the cause of action, claim for damages, issue
of duty, or affirmative defense that is the subject of the motion.” (California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(d)(1).)
Walmart
has not done so.  For this further reason,
the Court treats Walmart’s motion as a motion for summary judgment only. 
In its
moving papers, Walmart submits evidence and argument to show that it entered
into a written agreement with TKE that (according to Walmart) obligated TKE to
service and maintain the escalator at the store at issue.  (See Walmart’s Statement of Undisputed Facts
[“SUMF”], No. 8, and supporting evidence.) 
The written contract contains an express indemnity provision.  (SUMF, No. 12 and supporting evidence.)  Walmart tendered its defense to TKE, but TKE has
not agreed to defend and indemnify Walmart. 
(SUMF, Nos. 9-11, 15-18, and supporting evidence.)
The Court
recognizes that TKE disputes some of this evidence, but even if there were no
material factual disputes (and the Court issues no ruling in that regard),
Walmart’s motion still fails.  That is
because – even accepting all of Walmart’s evidence, and even if all of the facts
are undisputed – at most Walmart has shown that it is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law on its Third Cause of Action (breach of express contract), its Fourth
Cause of Action (express contractual indemnity), its Sixth Cause of Action
(breach of duty to defend), and its Seventh Cause of Action (declaratory relief
– duty to defend).
On this record,
Walmart has not shown, with evidence, that it entitled to judgment as a matter
of law on its First Cause of Action (equitable indemnity) and its Second Cause
of Action (comparative indemnity).  The Court
does not have sufficient evidence in this record to conclude, as a matter of
law, that on a claim for equitable or comparative indemnity, TKE is 100 percent
responsible and Walmart is 0 percent responsible.  Absent such evidence, the Court cannot
conclude that Walmart is entitled to judgment as a matter of law on these
causes of action – and as this is a motion for summary judgment only, and not a
motion for summary adjudication, the Court cannot grant the motion where the
evidence (at best) supports Walmart’s arguments on only some, but not all, of
the causes of action in its FACC.
Accordingly,
the summary judgment motion is denied.
Conclusion
The Court DENIES
Walmart’s motion for summary judgment.
 
Moving party to give notice.