  Case Number:  21STCV20240    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
Please note: The Court is
unavailable to hear oral argument on the motion this afternoon. If all parties
submit, the tentative ruling will be adopted as the order of the Court. If a
party requests oral argument, the hearing will be continued to October 4, 2024.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


October
  3, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV20240




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant 1661, Inc. dba GOAT




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Chiquita Randle 



 
MOVING PAPERS
 
1.      Amended Notice of Motion and Motion for
Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication; Memorandum of
Points and Authorities[1]
2.      Amended Separate Statement of Undisputed
Material Facts
3.      Amended Request for Judicial Notice
4.      Declaration of David Ching in Support 
5.      Amended Compendium of Evidence in Support 
 
OPPOSITION PAPERS
 
1.      Plaintiff’s Opposition; Memorandum of Points
and Authorities
2.      Separate Statement in Opposition
3.      Objections to Evidence
4.      Notice of Errata
 
REPLY PAPERS 
 
1.      Reply
2.      Reply to Plaintiff’s Separate Statement
3.      Supplemental Declaration of Rabia Kaleem 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 28, 2021, Plaintiff
Chiquita Randle (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Witeby Enterprises,
1661, Inc., and Does 1 to 50 for negligence and premises liability. Plaintiff
alleges that on May 29, 2019, at 3960-3962 Landmark Street, Culver City, she
tripped and fell in the parking lot. (Complaint ¶ 12.) She alleges this
property was owned by Witeby Enterprises. (Id. ¶ 2.) 
 
Defendant 1661, Inc. dba GOAT (“Defendant”) now moves for summary
judgment, or in the alternative, summary adjudication, arguing that Plaintiff’s
action is barred by workers’ compensation exclusivity since Defendant was a
special employer. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the burden of persuasion
that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of material fact if,
and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the
underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with
the applicable standard of proof.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party moving for summary judgment
bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the
nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact; if he carries his burden of
production, he causes a shift, and the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his own to make a prima facie
showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.” (Ibid.;
Smith v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1463, 1474
[summary judgment standards held by Aguilar apply to summary
adjudication motions].)  Further, in line
with Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co., “[o]n a motion for summary
adjudication, the trial court has no discretion to exercise.  If a triable issue of material fact exists as
to the challenged causes of action, the motion must be denied. If there is no triable
issue of fact, the motion must be granted.” (Fisherman's Wharf Bay Cruise
Corp. v. Superior Court (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 309, 320.)
 
“On a summary judgment motion, the
court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the opposing party a
factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence. While viewing the evidence
in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its primary function is to
identify issues rather than to determine issues.  Only when the inferences are indisputable may
the court decide the issues as a matter of law. If the evidence is in conflict,
the factual issues must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co.
(1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839 [cleaned up].) 
Further, “the trial court may not weigh the evidence in the manner of a
factfinder to determine whose version is more likely true.  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court's evaluation of credibility.” (Id. at p. 840
[cleaned up]; see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation
(2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or
summary adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the
light most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences
in favor of that party”].)                        
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE
 
The
Court denies Defendant’s request for judicial notice to the extent that the
records are not WCAB records, but considers the evidence absent objection by
Plaintiff. 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
The
Court declines to rule on Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections as they have no
effect on the ruling herein.
 
DISCUSSION
 
I.                  
Negligence and Premises Liability
 
The
elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) a duty on the part of
defendant toward plaintiff; (2) defendant’s breach of that duty; and (3) harm
to the plaintiff caused by that breach. (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016)
1 Cal.5th 1132, 1142.) The elements of a cause of action for premises
liability are the same as those for negligence: duty, breach, causation, and
damages. (McIntyre v. The Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th
664, 671.) Therefore, to prevail on a
claim for premises liability, Plaintiff must prove: (1) defendant owned or
controlled the subject property; (2) defendant was negligent in the use or
maintenance of the property; (3) plaintiff was harmed; and (4) defendant’s negligence
was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm. (See Rowland v.
Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108.)
 
II.               
Workers’ Compensation
Exclusivity
 
Generally,
workers’ compensation is the exclusive remedy against an employer for injury of
an employee occurring in the course and scope of employment. (Labor Code §§
3600, 3601.) Further, the claim of an employee does not affect the employee’s
claim or right of action for damages resulting from the injury against any
person other than the employer. (Labor Code § 3852.)  
 
A. Course and Scope of Employment
“The requirement of Labor Code section 3600 is twofold. On
the one hand, the injury must occur in the course of the employment. This
concept ordinarily refers to the time, place, and circumstances under which the
injury occurs. Thus [a]n employee is in the course of his employment when he
does those reasonable things which his contract with his employment expressly
or impliedly permits him to do. And, ipso facto, an employee acts within the
course of his employment when performing a duty imposed upon him by his
employer and one necessary to perform before the terms of the contract [are]
mutually satisfied. (LaTourette v. W.C.A.B. (1998) 17 Cal.4th 644, 651
[internal citations and quotations omitted].)
“ ‘On the other hand, the statute requires that an injury “arise
out of” the employment. . . .  It has
long been settled that for an injury to “arise out of the employment” it must
‘occur by reason of a condition or incident of [the] employment....”
[Citation.] That is, the employment and the injury must be linked in some
causal fashion.’ [Citation.]” (LaTourette, supra, 17 Cal.4th at
651.) 
 
“Whether an employee's injury arose out of and in the
course of her employment is generally a question of fact to be determined in
light of the circumstances of the particular case. [Citations.] However, where
the facts are undisputed, resolution of the question becomes a matter of law.”
(Wright v. Beverly Fabrics, Inc. (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 346, 353.) 
 
III.            
Analysis
 
Here, the following facts are undisputed. GOAT operates an online
retail business selling high-end, limited edition sneakers and other retail
items. (UMF 3.) GOAT operates its business out of the warehouse building
located at 3960 Landmark Street, Culver City, California 90232. (UMF 4.) In
September 2016, GOAT entered into the Contractor Service Agreement with
temporary employment staffing agency, WMBE Payrolling, dba TargetCW. (UMF 5.) Plaintiff
began working for TargetCW in May of 2019 at the warehouse in Culver City. (Pl.
Resp. UMF 11.) Plaintiff attested to commuting and reporting for work every day
at the same GOAT warehouse in Culver City. (UMF 13.) According to
Plaintiff, while at work on May 29, 2019, she and a co-worker left work at
around 11:00 a.m., with the intent to go through the parking lot to go get a
smoothie and an acai bowl at a nearby shop. (UMF 20.) Plaintiff fell and was
injured in the parking lot. (UMF 21.)
 
Defendant
also sets forth the following, which is disputed:
 
-         
The June 6, 2019 physician’s report notes that she was
injured when “walking through the parking lot of her place of work,” and that
her injury “is believed to be caused as a direct result of the industrial
injury arising out of and in the course of employment.” (UMF 24.)
 
Plaintiff
sets forth the following, which are disputed: 
 
-         
On the day of the incident that is the subject of this
lawsuit, Plaintiff left work at approximately 11:00am for a meal break with the
plan to get food at an off-site location. (PAMF1.) 
-         
The incident and injury that are the subject of this
lawsuit took place while Plaintiff was on her way to get food, on a meal break,
and outside of the building in which I was working on that day. (PAMF 2.) 
-         
As part of Plaintiff’s employment on the date of the
incident, she was prohibited from receiving compensation for time spent on meal
breaks, and was not paid or compensated in any manner during meal breaks, such
as and including the meal break that she was on at the time of the subject
incident. (PAMF 3.) 
-         
According to Defendant 1661 Inc., at the time of the
subject incident, Plaintiff was in a parking lot that was not owned by
Defendant 1661, Inc. (PAMF 4.) In response, Defendant does not dispute that
Defendant “did not own the parking lot,” and “did not control the parking lot,”
but disputes “whether the parking lot is still a part of Defendant’s premises.”[2]
(Def. Resp. to PAMF 4.)
 
Defendant’s
motion only addresses whether it was a special employer, but does not address whether
there is an absence of triable issue of fact regarding whether the injury
occurred in the course of employment. Accordingly, Defendant fails to meet its
burden to show the absence of a triable issue of fact that Plaintiff’s action
is barred by worker’s compensation exclusivity. Even if Defendant had somehow
met its burden,[3]
Plaintiff presents evidence that she was on an unpaid meal break when the
injury occurred, creating a triable issue of fact. While injuries that occur
during non-paid breaks on the employer’s premises may arise within the course
of employment, neither party presents evidence regarding whether the parking
lot where the fall occurred was Defendant’s premises. (See Gutierrez v.
Petoseed Co. (1980) 103 Cal.App.3d 766, 769; Hinkle v. Workers' Comp.
Appeals Bd. (1985) 175 Cal.App.3d 587, 591 disapproved of on other grounds
by Camper v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd. (1992) 3 Cal.4th 679, 683 [“an
off-duty personal activity, transpiring in an area beyond the employer's
dominion and control and yielding neither advantage nor benefit to the
employer, is not within the course of employment.”].)
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff “judicially admitted that the injury arose out of
employment, and that she was in the course of employment, which was relied upon
by the Workers Compensation Appeals Board.” (Def. Resp. to PAMF 1.) However, no
such pleading was filed in this case. (See Minish v. Hanuman Fellowship
(2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 437, 456 [“a judicial admission is effective (i.e.,
conclusive) only in the particular case.”] [citation and quotations omitted].)
Defendant further argues that Plaintiff was compensated by receiving workers’
compensation coverage while still on GOAT’s Premises. (Def. Resp. to PAMF 3.) The
mere fact of a settlement in a prior workers’ compensation claim does not
establish workers’ compensation exclusivity.[4]
(See id. at 452 [“There was no stipulation between plaintiff and
defendants concerning workers’ compensation liability, let alone a stipulation
that has been approved by the WCAB, a compensation judge or referee, or a
court.”].)
 
For
the first time in reply, Defendant argues that if it was not Plaintiff’s
employer, as Plaintiff contends, then there is no basis for a legal duty since
the parking lot was owned by Witeby Enterprises. Nevertheless, Defendant did
not raise this alternative argument in the moving papers, and thus, the Court
will not address it. 
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant 1661, Inc. dba GOAT’s Motion
for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
 
            Defendant
shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such.


