 Case Number:  22STCV22956    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
Please note: The
Court is unavailable to hear oral argument on the motion this afternoon. If all
parties submit, the tentative ruling will be adopted as the order of the Court.
If a party requests oral argument, the hearing will be continued to October 4,
2024.
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPT: 


32 




HEARING DATE: 


October 3, 2024 




CASE NUMBER: 


22STCV22956 




MOTIONS:   


Motion to Compel Plaintiff Kanwardeep Singh’s Orthopedic Physical
  Examination 




MOVING PARTY: 


Defendant William N. Solis Tello 




OPPOSING PARTY: 


Plaintiff  Kanwardeep Singh



 
BACKGROUND 
 
On July 15, 2022, Plaintiffs Kanwardeep Singh (“Plaintiff”) and Rochelle
Yullin Arias filed a complaint against Defendants Alexandra T. Cassillas,
William N. Solis Tello, Epifanio Amilcar Solis Tello, WNS Trucking, Juan Ramon
Prado, Francisca Gonzalez Alcala, and Does 1 to 50 related to a motor vehicle
accident that allegedly occurred on November 30, 2021.  
 
On August 16, 2024, Defendant William N. Solis Tello (“Defendant”) filed
the instant motion requesting an order compelling Plaintiff to comply with
Defendant’s written demand for an orthopedic physical examination. Defendant
also seeks monetary sanctions of $1,770.00 against Plaintiff and his counsel of
record. Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
“In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for personal
injuries, any defendant may demand one physical examination of the plaintiff,
if both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The examination does not
include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted, or
intrusive. (2) The examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of
the residence of the examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd.
(a).)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
“If a defendant who has demanded a physical examination under this
article, on receipt of the plaintiff's response to that demand, deems that any
modification of the demand, or any refusal to submit to the physical
examination is unwarranted, that defendant may move for an order compelling
compliance with the demand. This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and
confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Id., § 2032.250, subd.
(a).)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
“(a) The court shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination
under Section 2032.310 only for good cause shown. . . . (d) An order granting a
physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons who may
perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests
and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” (Id.,
§ 2032.430, subds. (a), (d).)¿¿Generally, to find
“good cause,” the court requires a showing of both: (1) relevancy to the
subject matter of the litigation; and (2) specific facts justifying the
discovery, e.g., allegations showing the need for the information sought and
lack of means for obtaining the information elsewhere. (Vinson v. Superior
Court (1987) 43 Cal. 3d 833, 840.)¿
 
Subdivision
(b) of Section 2032.250 states: “The court shall impose a monetary sanction¿. .
.¿against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to compel compliance with a demand for a physical examination, unless it
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”¿¿
¿ 
MEET AND CONFER 
 
¿           The Declaration of
Andrew K. Aaronian, Defendant’s counsel, states that he sent a meet and confer
email on July 25, 2024 to Plaintiff’s counsel regarding his objection to the
examination demand. (Aaronian Decl. ¶ 9, Exh. F.) In said email, Defendant’s
counsel requested that Plaintiff’s counsel reconsider his stance on this
discovery issue to avoid a discovery motion. (Ibid.) Plaintiff’s
counsel, however, did not respond to the July 25 email or provide any
indication that Plaintiff will voluntarily submit to an orthopedic physical
examination. (Id. ¶ 10.) 
Based on the foregoing, the court finds that Defendant made a reasonable
effort to resolve the issue before filing this motion.  
 
DISCUSSION 
 
Plaintiff
alleges in verified discovery responses that he has ongoing pain in his
shoulders and testified at deposition that he still experiences severe chronic
neck and back pain from the subject accident. (Id. ¶¶ 3-4, Exh. A, B.)  
 
On
February 27, 2024, Defendant Epifanio Amilcar Solis Tello served Plaintiff with
a demand for a defense neurological examination before Dr. Andrew H. Woo (“Dr.
Woo”) to evaluate Plaintiff’s alleged injuries from a neurological perspective.
(Id. ¶ 5, Ex. C.) The neurological medical examination proceeded as
noticed on March 22, 2024. (Ibid.)
 
On
July 22, 2024, Defendant served Plaintiff with an examination demand, noticing
Plaintiff’s orthopedic examination before orthopedic surgeon Dr. Ronald S.
Kvitne (“Dr. Kvitne”) for August 26, 2024. (Id. ¶ 7, Exh. E.)  On July 23, 2024,
Plaintiff’s counsel sent an email to Defendant’s counsel, stating, “Plaintiff
has already underwent a IME exam per the code and only one is permitted.
Plaintiff is herby objecting to any additional IME exams.” (Id. ¶ 8,
Exh. F.) Thereafter, Defendant’s counsel attempted to meet and confer with
Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the objection to no avail. (Id. ¶¶ 9-10,
Exh. F.)  
 
In opposition, Plaintiff asserts the motion should be denied because
Defendant seeks an orthopedic examination but Plaintiff already underwent a
neurological examination with Dr. Woo on March 22, 2024. Further, Plaintiff
argues that Defendant’s Notice is flawed as it fails to identify with
specificity any diagnostic examinations to be performed. 
 
In reply, Defendant argues that each defendant is entitled to a physical
examination, and the examination demand specifies diagnostic tests and procedures,
noting in pertinent part that the examination will consist of “procedures and
tests routinely used by orthopedic professionals examining patients for
conditions such as those alleged by Plaintiff in the above-captioned action,
such as diagnostic tests for range of motion, reflexes, and strength.” (Id. ¶ 7,
Exh. E.)  This information is specified in the moving papers as well.

 
The Court finds good cause for an orthopedic examination with Dr. Kvitne,
so long as the scope of the examination and opinions do not overlap with Dr.
Woo. Defendant asserts that Dr. Woo evaluated Plaintiff regarding “traumatic
brain injury and its alleged impacts (e.g., headaches, sleep disruption, and
blurred vision.” (Motion at p. 2.) The orthopedic examination will be related
to Plaintiff’s claims regarding neck and back injuries. (Motion at p. 3.)
Defendant asserts that the examination will consist of “limited questioning of
Plaintiff regarding the subject accident and the body parts allegedly injured
in the accident (his neck, back, and shoulders) followed by a clinical
examination and imaging studies of Plaintiff’s allegedly injured body parts.
The diagnostic tests that Dr. Kvitne intends to perform at the examination are
set forth in Exhibit G.” (Motion at p. 7.) So limited, the Court grants the
motion.
 
The Court declines to award monetary sanctions, finding that Plaintiff
acted with substantial justification.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
Defendant
William N. Solis Tello’s motion to compel Plaintiff Kanwardeep Singh’s
orthopedic physical examination is GRANTED. Plaintiff shall appear for
examination within 20 days.
 
Defendant shall give notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of
service of such.  