 Case Number:  23STCV18508    Hearing Date:   October 3, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
Please note: The
Court is unavailable to hear oral argument on the motion this afternoon. If all
parties submit, the tentative ruling will be adopted as the order of the Court.
If a party requests oral argument, the hearing will be continued to October 4,
2024.
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPT: 


32 




HEARING DATE: 


October 3, 2024 




CASE NUMBER: 


23STCV18508 




MOTIONS:   


Motion to Dismiss Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint 




MOVING PARTY: 


Defendant Path Program  




OPPOSING PARTY: 


None (Unopposed) 



 
BACKGROUND 
 
On
August 4, 2023, Plaintiff Karen Denise Works (“Plaintiff” in pro per) filed a
complaint against Defendant Path Program (“Defendant”). 
 
On
December 12, 2023, Plaintiff filed a form first amended complaint (“FAC”)
against Defendant for general negligence and intentional tort.
 
On
April 29, 2024, the Court sustained Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s FAC
with leave to amend. The Court granted Defendant’s motion to strike with leave
to amend. The Court ordered Plaintiff to file a second amended complaint within
20 days’ notice of the order. 
 
On
August, 7, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion to dismiss Plaintiff’s FAC
pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure section 581, subdivision (f)(2)
and based upon the grounds that Plaintiff failed to file an amended complaint
following the Court’s order sustaining the demurrer and motion to strike. No
opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
The court may dismiss a complaint as
to a particular defendant if, after a demurrer to the complaint is sustained
with leave to amend, the plaintiff fails to amend within the time allowed by
the court and either party moves for dismissal. (Code Civ. Pro., § 581, subd. (f)(2).)¿¿ 
 
That lack of an opposition amounts to a concession that the motion is
meritorious. (See California Rules of Court Rule 3.1113(a); see also Rule
3.1320(f); Herzberg v. County of Plumas (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 1, 20
(the party who fails to argue an issue abandons that issue).) 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
On April 29, 2024, the Court sustained a
demurrer with motion to strike to the FAC and directed Plaintiff to file a
second amended complaint within 20 days’ notice of the order. The Court
directed Defendant to provide notice and filed file proof of such. (See
04/29/24 Minute Order.) 
 
On May 1, 2024, Defendant provided notice and filed proof of
such. 
 
No second amended complaint appears in
the record as of September 30, 2024.
Further, Plaintiff has not filed an opposition to the motion to dismiss. 
 
A dismissal pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 581, subdivision (f)(2), is thus warranted. 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
Defendant Path Program’s Motion to Dismiss
Plaintiff Karen Denise Works’  First Amended Complaint is GRANTED.
            The Court dismisses
with prejudice the claims by Plaintiff against Defendant.

 Counsel for Defendant to give notice and file a proof of service of such.
 