  Case Number:  23TRCV04221    Hearing Date:   May 23, 2024    Dept:  P Having considered the verified applications of Jeffrey P. Allen and Donald G. Gentile, the court rules as follows: the respective applications for admission pro hac vice filed by Jeffrey P. Allen and Donald P. Gentile are denied without prejudice.I. PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn December 19, 2023, Plaintiff M.F., by and through his guardian ad litem, Megan Montero (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendants Cultural Care, Inc. (“Cultural Care”) and Saafa Sofia.On January 25, 2024, this action was reassigned to the Honorable David K. Reinert sitting in Department P at Torrance Courthouse effective January 29, 2024.On February 8, 2024, the Court granted the application of Megan Montero to be appointed as guardian ad litem for minor plaintiff M.F.On February 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Cultural Care, Safaa Sofia Boualite (“Boualite”), and Lata Owen (“Owen”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Negligence; (2) Negligent Training, Hiring, and Supervision; (3) Negligence Per Se; (4) Fraudulent Misrepresentation; (5) Negligent Misrepresentation; and (6) Battery.On April 17, 2024, Jeffrey P. Allen (“Allen”) filed and served an application for admission pro hac vice, in which Mr. Allen seeks an order granting him admission to appear as counsel pro hac vice.Also, on April 17, 2024, Donald J. Gentile (“Gentile”) filed an application for admission pro hac vice, in which Mr. Gentile seeks an order granting him admission to appear as counsel pro hac vice.The Court will address the respective applications of Mr. Allen and Mr. Gentile in this one ruling.II. FACTUAL BACKGROUNDThe FAC arises from Plaintiff being infected with oral herpes under the supervision of Cultural Care. (FAC, ¶ 21.)III. LEGAL STANDARDCalifornia Rules of Court, Rule 9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to appear pro hac vice in this State by filing “with the court a verified application with proof of service by mail in accordance with Code of Civil Procedure section 1013a of a copy of the application and notice of hearing of the application on all parties who have appeared in the cause and on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office. The notice of hearing must be given at the time prescribed in Code of Civil Procedure section 1005 unless the court has prescribed a shorter period.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 9.40(c)(1).) “An applicant for permission to appear as counsel pro hac vice under this rule must pay a reasonable fee not exceeding $50 to the State Bar of California with the copy of the application and the notice of hearing that is served on the State Bar.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 9.40(e).)The written application must provide the following information: (1) applicant attorney’s residence and office addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant attorney has been admitted and dates of admission; (3) representation that the attorney is a member in good standing in the courts of admission and is not currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (4) the title of each court and action in which the applicant attorney has appeared pro hac vice in this State in the preceding two years, if any; and (5) the name, address, and telephone number of the active California State Bar member who is counsel of record in the local action. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 9.40(d).)IV. DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentsMr. Allen and Mr. Gentile respectively request that the Court allow them to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this action.Responding Party’s OppositionNo opposition filed as of May 21, 2024.Moving Party’s ReplyNo reply filed as of May 21, 2024.Merits of the Respective ApplicationsThe Court finds that the respective applications of Mr. Allen and Mr. Gentile are compliant except that neither the application of Mr. Allen nor Mr. Gentile indicates that the $50.00 fee was paid to the State Bar of California as required by Cal. Rules of Court., Rule 9.40(e).The Court therefore cannot grant the pro hac vice applications filed by Jeffrey P. Allen and Donald P. Gentile.V. CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, the respective Applications for Admission Pro Hac Vice filed by Jeffrey P. Allen and Donald P. Gentile are DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.Jeffrey P. Allen to give notice.The respective Applications for Admission Pro Hac Vice filed by Jeffrey P. Allen and Donald P. Gentile on 4/17/2024 are denied without prejudice.