


[1] “The incident was reported to CPS by the
therapist.  AR 568.  Elizabeth alleged that Shaw threatened
Sydney, their minor daughter, that if she did not move out of the way of the
television, he was going to “get his gun and blow her head off.”  AR 568. 
CPS subsequently began its own investigation.  Id.


[2] During
LAPD’s investigation, Shaw’s attorney objected to use of the recording since it
had been recorded surreptitiously.  AR
688.  LAPD acknowledged that Shaw was
unaware he had been recorded.  AR 693. 


[3] Shaw
objected to the use of these items as evidence at the Board of Rights hearing on
the grounds they had not been provided to him during the Skelly process.  AR 247.  The Board of Rights overruled the objection.  Id.


[4] Elizabeth’s
daughter from her first marriage placed the comments “…steroids coming from…”
on the photos.  AR 349-50.


[5] The
IAB investigation report referenced an article by the U.S. Anti-Doping Agency
about boldenone.  AR 685, 690. Based on
this article, the IAB report states that “boldenone was not approved by the
Food and Drug for use in humans for any reason.”  AR 685. 
The report acknowledges that the same USADA article indicated that
“boldenone had been found in adulterated nutritional supplements sold over the
counter and were often not declared on the product labels.”  AR 685.


[6] An
exception -- not at issue here – exists where the employer adds charges based
on new evidence without a new Skelly hearing. 


[7] Shaw is incorrect that the remedy for a Skelly
violation is reinstatement.  Rather, the remedy
would be back pay from the effective date of discharge to the date of Chief
Moore’s decision to remove him.  See Barber
v. State Personnel Board, (1976) 18 Cal.3d 395, 402.


[8] The Department argues that the Board of Rights Manual
(“Manual”) states “Administrative Tribunals were initiated as fact-finding
bodies to appraise all the information accumulated concerning a given situation
and to reach an equitable decision, without undue interference from restrictive
legal minutiae.” Manual, p. 3.  In the
pursuit of the truth, the Manual allows all relevant evidence, generally allows
hearsay, and favors admissibility over exclusion. (Manual, 13th
edition, §§363.10-363.30) The source of a recording is the legal minutiae that
the Board of Rights seeks to avoid.  It
is more important that the recording exists, is relevant, and can help the
Board reach an equitable solution.  Opp.
at 9.
Shaw correctly responds (Reply at 5) that the Manual was not
received in evidence at the administrative hearing.  Nor has the Department asked the court to
take judicial notice of it.  Therefore, the
Department may not rely on it in their opposition.  Although Shaw asks the court to strike the
opposition’s reference to the Manual, the court will simply ignore it.
 


[9] https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Testosterone_cypionate


[10] Shaw
argues that the policy does not define “misuse,” making the policy too vague to
enforce – and certainly too vague as a basis to fire an employee.  Reply at 7. 
This is a new issue raised for the first time in
reply and has been disregarded.  See Regency
Outdoor Advertising v. Carolina Lances, Inc., (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1323,
1333.

