  Case Number:  21STCP02223    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Hi Point Neighbors
  Association,


 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
Case Nos.:
 


 
21STCP02223;
23STCP04569




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




City of Los Angeles,


 
 
 
Respondent.
 


 


 




 
Andrea Grano,
 
 
vs.
 
City of Los Angeles,
 
 


 
 
 
Petitioner,
 
 
 
 
Respondent.
 


 


 




 
Hi Point M, LLC,
 
 


 
 
 
Real Party in
  Interest.
 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: November 13, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Dismissal for Mootness
Moving Party: Respondent City of Los Angeles and
Real Party-in-Interest Hi Point M, LLC
Responding Party: Petitioner Hi Point Neighbors’
Association
 
T/R:      THE PETITIONS ARE DISMISSED AS MOOT.
 
CLERK TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving, opposing, and reply briefs. 
 
The development approvals at issue in
these actions were abandoned and voided by the Respondent City on September 16,
2024, mooting the petitions challenging the approvals. The Court ordered
supplemental briefing addressing whether the Court should rule on the petitions
despite their mootness. 
 
Courts have inherent discretion to decide moot cases in three situations:
“ ‘(1) when the case presents an issue of broad public interest that is likely
to recur [citation]; (2) when there may be a recurrence of the controversy
between the parties [citation]; and (3) when a material question remains for
the court's determination.’ ” (Santa Monica Baykeeper v. City of Malibu
(2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1538, 1548, citing Cucamongans United for Reasonable
Expansion v. City of Rancho Cucamonga (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 473, 479-480.)
                                                                                                                                       
Petitioner argues that the Court should decide the petitions despite
mootness because the City’s practices complained of are likely to reoccur and
involve a broad public interest. Petitioner represents that City has provided
Transit Oriented Communities (“TOC”) benefits to developments that do not meet
the TOC guidelines under an erroneous “longstanding interpretation” of the
guidelines. Petitioner asserts that if the Court does not reach the merits of
this petition, the City will continue these approvals on other projects at the
same intersection as the project here as well as other projects throughout the
city. 
 
Respondent argues that the actions should be dismissed because there is
no longer a controversy to be decided, and any ruling would be hypothetical and
theoretical. Respondent also asserts that Petitioner has failed to provide
sufficient evidence showing that the issues in these actions are likely to
reoccur or are likely to broadly effect the public interest. The Court agrees.
 
The Court finds that dismissal is appropriate. Petitioner has not adequately
shown that the approval issue or the other issues listed by Petitioners, such
as whether noticing requirements for TOC applications satisfy constitutional
due process, are likely to recur generally. Nor has Petitioner shown that the
issues will recur with this Real Party. Any decision in these cases would be
purely advisory and limited to the facts of these petitions. 


 