 Case Number:  24STCV17115    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
KANE HANDEL,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
1706 NORTH STANLEY LLC,
  
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV17115
  Hearing Date:  November 8, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s motion to strike 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On July 10, 2024, Plaintiff Kane
Handel filed this action against Defendant 1706 North Stanley LLC, asserting
causes of action for negligence and premises liability. The complaint stems
from injuries Plaintiff sustained after a slip and fall at Defendant’s
property. 
            On October 15, 2024, Defendant filed
the instant motion to strike punitive damages from the complaint. Plaintiff
filed her opposition on October 25, 2024. Defendant filed its reply on October
30, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face
of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Page Decl.)
DISCUSSION
“In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud
is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).)
Here, the complaint alleges that tenants
notified Defendant of slippery conditions caused by a storm but Defendant
failed to remediate the issues. (Compl. ¶¶ 16-22.) This demonstrates negligence
at most, which is insufficient for punitive damages. (See Jackson v. Johnson (1992) 5
Cal.App.4th 1350, 1354 [“Simple negligence cannot support an award of punitive
damages”].) There are no aggravating facts amounting to malice, oppression, or
fraud. 
Plaintiff’s caselaw is distinguishable.
For example, in Nolin v. National Convenience Stores, Inc. (1979) 95
Cal.App.3d 279, 284, the defendant removed signs warning gas pump customers of
a slippery oil spill out of concern for the store’s image. The defendant also
stopped warning customers of the danger through the loudspeaker. (Ibid.)
The facts “reflected defendant's overriding concern for a minimum-expense
operation, regardless of the peril involved.” (Id. at p. 288.) In Grimshaw
v. Ford Motor Co. (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 757, 813, a case involving the
infamous Ford Pinto, the court found that “Ford could have corrected the
hazardous design defects at minimal cost but decided to defer correction of the
shortcomings by engaging in a cost-benefit analysis balancing human lives and
limbs against corporate profits.” This constituted an “institutional mentality”
of “callous indifference to public safety.” (Ibid.)   
By contrast, the allegations here show
that Defendants set up a tenant portal to allow reporting of complaints and
were reachable by text. This does not demonstrate malicious conduct like
concealing the hazard or explicitly choosing profits over safety. Defendants’
failure to remedy the issues before Plaintiff’s injury amounts to no more than
negligence. Thus, the complaint fails to plead a basis for punitive damages. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s motion to strike is
GRANTED. 
  