  Case Number:  23STCV23749    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



MECCA MORGAN,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
ALPHA BETA COMPANY dba RALPHS; DAN CRONIN, an individual; and
  DOES 1 through 10, inclusive,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          23STCV23749
 Hearing Date:   November
  7, 2024
 Trial Date:        May
  27, 2025
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Motion to Strike
  Portions of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint 



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Mecca Morgan (Morgan) sues
Defendants Alpha Beta Company dba Ralphs (ABC), the Kroger Company (Kroger),
Dan Cronin (Cronin), and Does 1 through 10 pursuant to a January 31, 2024,
First Amended Complaint (FAC) alleging claims of: (1) Discrimination; (2)
Battery; (3) Negligent Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (4)
Violation of California Civil Code Section 52.1, Interference with the Exercise
of Civil Rights. 
The claims arise from the following
allegations. While visiting a Ralphs store as a customer, Plaintiff Mecca
Morgan, an African American woman, was discriminated against by store
employees. Specifically, Plaintiff Morgan was stopped inside the store by a
Ralphs employee and then a security guard that accused Plaintiff of stealing,
demanding proof of purchase. Plaintiff Morgan confirmed that she had a receipt
but protested that she was not going to let the employees violate her rights,
recording the incident as it occurred. Plaintiff Morgan attempted several times
to use an exit to leave the store but had her path blocked by the store’s
security guard. As a result, Plaintiff Morgan walked to a different exit in the
store to leave the premises. However, as Plaintiff attempted to exit the store,
she was attacked by the store manager, Ralph Cronin. The pleadings do not
describe the alleged battery other than to generally describe offensive and
unwelcome touching. These experiences have resulted in economic and non-economic
damages, including affecting Plaintiff’s home broker/agent profession and
income.
B. Motion Before the Court
On June 21, 2024, ABC filed the
instant motion to strike Morgan’s claims for punitive damages as set forth in
the FAC. 
On July 8, 2024, Morgan opposed the
motion.
On October 31, 2024, ABC replied. 
On November 4, 2024, Morgan filed a
reply to ABC’s reply. 
 
II. Motion
A. Legal Standard
The court may, upon a motion or at
any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper, (a) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading, or (b) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc. §
436, subds. (a), (b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782
[“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage;
probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) 
For the purposes of a motion to
strike pursuant to Sections 435 to 437 of the Code of Civil Procedure, the term
“pleading” generally means a demurrer, answer, complaint, or cross-complaint,
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (a)), and an immaterial allegation or irrelevant
matter in a pleading entails (1) an allegation that is not essential to the
statement of a claim or defense, (2) an allegation that is neither pertinent to
nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense, or (3) a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or
cross-complaint (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10, subds. (b)(1)-(3), (c)).
B. Analysis 
As
an initial matter, although at times the motion appears to challenge all the
claims as to all defendants, in the conclusion, ABC states that they seek to
strike such claims “as against Ralphs.” (Mot., compare pp. 1-3 with p. 12.) Moreover,
although the Motion also raises a challenge to the FAC’s prayer for relief of
statutory damages under Civil Code section 52 (Mot., p. 5), that issue is not
raised in the Notice, is never argued, and does not appear in the conclusion. The
Court will construe the motion as relating to the striking of punitive damages
as to the corporate defendant only.
“In an action for the breach of an obligation not arising
from contract, where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the
defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in
addition to the actual damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and
by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a); College
Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725 (College
Hospital) [explaining amendments requiring “despicable” conduct for malice
and oppression].) 
Under
the Civil Code, “[a]n employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to
subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the
employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed
him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or
authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded
or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (b).) Moreover, “corporate employers[] […] may not be liable for punitive
damages unless ‘the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice [is] on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.’ [Citation.]” (White
v. Ultramar (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 566, fn. 1.) The statute was amended in
1980 to include the limitations in subdivision (b). (Ibid.) 
A motion to strike is properly granted when a complaint
fails to allege facts to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages under
the standards of the statute. (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. California,
Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) Alleging an intentional tort alone is
not enough to support a claim for punitive damages, nor are conclusory
allegations that merely parrot the language of the statute. (Grieves v.
Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166; Blegen v. Superior Court
(1981) 125 Cal.App.3d 959, 963.) 
ABC argues that Morgan has not
alleged facts sufficient to support a claim for punitive damages because the
FAC does not establish that Ralphs’ actions constituted oppression, fraud or
malice. (Mot. pp. 7:19-10:4.) Further, ABC argues that Morgan has shown neither
that Ralphs authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct, nor that Cronin had substantial
discretionary authority over corporate policy such that his, or his
subordinates’ actions could be imputed to ABC (Mot. pp. 10:5-11:17; See Wilson
v. Southern California Edison Co. (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 123, 164.) 
In opposition, Morgan argues that
ABC ratified Cronin’s conduct in that Cronin’s “reprehensible actions and
decisions to use physical violence against the Plaintiff reflected the “state
of mind” of the Corporation as he exercised substantial authority to protect
its business by using force against [Morgan]…” (Opp. p. 5: 17-19.)  Morgan generally reasserts the claims made in
the FAC such as that the “Defendants especially [sic] oppressive, malicious and
intentional misconduct was willful with a total disregard for the safety and
rights of [Morgan], therefore giving rise to a claim for punitive damages.
Defendants intentionally chose to act with oppression, malice, recklessness,
wickedness, fraud and discrimination which displayed their evil intent.” (Opp.
p. 4:18-22.) The opposition otherwise summarizes and cites the Complaint at
paragraphs 3-4, 8-9, 11-13, and 32 to identify the allegations supporting
punitive damages. (Opp. pp. 4-9.) 
In reply, ABC argues that Cronin,
as an individual store manager, does not qualify as a managing agent under Code
of Civil Procedure section 3294 subdivision (b) because he does not have
discretional authority to affect corporate policy and the FAC does not show
facts that suggest otherwise. (Reply p. 4:16-21.) 
Here, the FAC insufficiently
alleges oppression, fraud, or malice required to hold a corporate employer
liable for punitive damages. The FAC alleges that Morgan was “accosted” by a
store employee and a security guard. (Compl., p. 3, ¶ 8.) The Complaint
describes that Morgan was “bumped up against” by the security guard which
impeded her ability to move freely. (Compl. p. 6, ¶ 19.) The FAC further
alleges that Morgan was “blindsided and aggressively attacked by Ralphs store
manager, Dan Cronin.” (Compl., p. 6, ¶ 19.) The Complaint describes that Cronin
“brought himself into offensive and unwelcome contact with [Morgan].” The facts
as alleged in the FAC do not provide sufficient factual support for punitive
damages as to Ralphs because they do not show malice, fraud or oppression on
the part of the corporate defendant. The FAC does not allege that ABC had prior
knowledge that any employee was unfit, or that it authorized or ratified the
wrongful conduct. Further, even if the actions of the ABC employees rise to
oppressive or malicious conduct, there is no evidence that any of the accused
employees qualify as managing agents under Code of Civil Procedure section 3294
subdivision (b). 
            Thus, the motion to strike is
GRANTED, as to Ralphs, with leave to amend. 
III. Conclusion
Defendant Alpha Beta Company’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s
First Amended Complaint is GRANTED as to Ralphs only.
Plaintiff may amend her complaint only with respect to this issue within
14 days. (Any additional amendment would require a motion for leave to amend.)