 Case Number:  24STCV21275    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



3133 FIGFLOWER, LLC, a California limited liability company, 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
CA STUDENT LIVING USC, LLC, a Delaware limited liability
  company, and DOES 1-100,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          24STCV21275
 Hearing Date:   November
  7, 2024
 Trial Date:        None
  Set 
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Motion for Summary
  Judgment, or in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication [RES ID # 0689]



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff 3133 FigFlower, LLC (Landlord)
sues Defendant CA Living Student USC, LLC (Tenant) pursuant to an August 20,
2024, Complaint for unlawful detainer. 
Landlord owns tracts of land and
improvements located at 3100 South Figueroa Street, Los Angeles, CA 90017 (the
Property). Landlord and Tenant are parties to a May 31, 2022, Ground Lease for
the Property whereby Landlord agreed to ground lease the Property to Tenant,
and Tenant agreed to ground lease and hire the Property from Landlord, under
certain terms, covenants and conditions for a term of 99 years. The Ground
Lease requires, among other things, that the Tenant pay taxes for the property
as well as any fines or penalties resulting from Tenant’s failure to pay the
same. The Ground Lease also prohibits the Tenant from committing waste upon the
Property and requires that the Tenant maintain the Property and the
improvements thereon. 
Landlord alleges that the Tenant
failed to pay $85,571.49 in taxes for the Property that were due to be paid on
April 10, 2024, which remain due, plus accrued interest and penalties. Landlord
further alleges that the Tenant has allowed the condition of the Property to deteriorate,
failed to protect the Property against waste and nuisances thereon, and failed
to keep and maintain the Property in safe condition and repair. 
On May 13, 2024, Landlord served a
Notice of Default and Opportunity to Cure upon Tenant. The Notice of Default
demanded that the Tenant cure the defaults within 30 days or such failure would
constitute an Event of Default, entitling Landlord to exercise its remedies to
terminate the Tenant’s right to possession of the Property. On August 12, 2024,
served Tenant with a three-day notice to quit or otherwise vacate the Property.
Landlord asserts that as of the filing of this Complaint, the Tenant has not
cured the defaults and remains in possession of the Property. 
B. Motion Before the Court
On October 3, 2024, Landlord filed
the instant motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary
adjudication. 
On October 24, 2024, Tenant opposed
the motion.
On November 1, 2024, Landlord
replied.
The Landlord’s motion is now before
the Court. 
 
II. Motion 
A. Requests for Judicial Notice
Pursuant to Evidence Code section
452, subdivisions (c) and (h), the Court may take judicial notice of “(c) [o]fficial
acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the United
States and of any state of the United States” and “(h) [f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” The court however may not take judicial notice of the
truth of the contents of the documents. (Herrera v. Deutsche Bank National
Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.) Documents are only judicially
noticeable to show their existence and what orders were made such that the
truth of the facts and findings within the documents are not judicially
noticeable. (Lockley v. Law Office of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz &
McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875, 885.) 

Per Landlord’s request, the Court
takes judicial notice of the following: 
(1)  
Notice of Building(s), Structure(s), or Premises
Classified as Either Hazardous, Substandard or a Nuisance – Abatement
Proceedings, recorded August 1, 2024 in the Official Records of the Los Angeles
County Recorder’s Office as Instr. No. 20240512773. (Compendium of Exhibits
(COE), Ex. 18.)
(2)  
Prior Year Tax Statements for property taxes as of
August 30, 2024, for Assessor’s Parcel Nos. 5123 020 004, 5123 020 005, 5123
020 006, 5123 020 007, 5123 020 016, 5123 020 017, 5123 020 018, 5123 020 019,
5123 020 020, 5123 020 021, 5123 020 022, 5123 020 031, and 5123 020 032 (COE,
Ex. 12.)
(3)  
Property Tax Payment Inquiry Reports dated as of July
12, 2024 (COE, Ex. 34, pp. C-0557 to C-0570.)
B. Evidentiary Objections
In granting or denying a motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only on those
objections to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of the motion.
Objections to evidence that are not ruled on for purposes of the motion shall
be preserved for appellate review. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).)
Evidentiary objections not made either in writing or orally shall be deemed
waived. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b).) 
Landlord Evidentiary Objections
to Scott Declaration
OVERRULED: Nos.
6-7, 10-11 
            The
remaining objections are not ruled on as they are not material to disposition
of the motion. 
C. Legal Standard 
A motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the
papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact
for trial or that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of
law. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) 
A party may also seek summary adjudication of select causes
of action, affirmative defenses, claims for damages, or issues of duty, which
may be made by a standalone motion or as an alternative to a motion for summary
judgment and proceeds in all procedural respects like a motion for summary
judgment, but which must completely dispose of the challenged cause of action,
affirmative defense, claim for damages, or issue of duty. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subds. (f)(1)-(2), (t).) 
The moving party bears the initial burden of production to
make prima facie showing no triable material fact issues. (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) This burden on summary
judgment or adjudication “is more properly one of persuasion rather than proof,
since he must persuade the court that there is no material fact for a
reasonable trier of fact to find, and not to prove any such fact to the
satisfaction of the court itself as though it were sitting as the trier of
fact.” (Id. at p. 850, fn. 11.) 
If the moving party meets this burden, the burden shifts to
the opposing party to make a rebuttal prima facie
showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. (Id. at p.
849.) 
“[I]n ruling on motions for summary judgment courts are to
‘“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”’
[Citations].” (Cheal v. El Camino Hospital (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 736,
760.) 
D. Analysis 
1. Summary
Judgment 
a. Relevant
Law 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section
1161 subdivision (3), a tenant of real property is guilty of unlawful detainer
“When the tenant continues in possession…after a neglect or failure to perform
other conditions or covenants of the lease or agreement under which the
property is held…than the one for the payment of rent, and three days' notice,
excluding Saturdays and Sundays and other judicial holidays, in writing,
requiring the performance of those conditions or covenants, or the possession
of the property, shall have been served upon the tenant…Within three days,
excluding Saturdays and Sundays and other judicial holidays, after the service
of the notice, the tenant…may perform the conditions or covenants of the lease
or pay the stipulated rent, as the case may be, and thereby save the lease from
forfeiture; provided, if the conditions and covenants of the lease, violated by
the lessee, cannot afterward be performed, then no notice, as last prescribed
herein, need be given to the lessee or the subtenant, demanding the performance
of the violated conditions or covenants of the lease.” (Code. Civ. Proc. § 1161
subd. (3).)  
Accordingly, the elements of
unlawful detainer under Code of Civil Procedure section 1161 subdivision (3) are:
(1) tenant is still in possession of the property; (2) tenant holds the
property under a lease or agreement; (3) tenant failed to fulfill a condition
or perform a covenant of the agreement; and (4) if the covenant can be
performed, Plaintiff must have served proper written notice to perform or
deliver possession of the property. If the covenant cannot be performed, then
plaintiff need not demand its performance and may simply serve notice of
termination. (Code. Civ. Proc. § 1161 subd. (3).)  
b. Discussion

Here, the Landlord shows, and
Tenant does not dispute, that the Tenant is still in possession of the property
and that the Tenant holds the Property pursuant to a Ground Lease agreement
between the parties. (Compl. ¶¶ 6, 15; Ex. 2.) 
The Landlord asserts that the
Tenant failed to fulfill or perform certain conditions of the Ground Lease
including sections 18.1, 18.3 and 18.5 which require the Tenant to pay all
taxes on the property, including property taxes, and any penalties or interest
that may accrue due to Tenant’s nonpayment. (Compl., Ex 2., pp. 31-32, §§ 18.1,
18.3, 18.5.) The Landlord presents evidence that the property taxes for the
second installment of the 2023-2024 tax year were due on February 1, 2024, and
were delinquent if not paid by April 10, 2024 and that, despite reminders from
the Landlord, the Tenant failed to timely pay the taxes. (COE Exs. 32-33.) 
The Landlord also asserts that the
Tenant failed to fulfill or perform the conditions stated in sections 5.2 and 5.3
of the Ground Lease which state that the Tenant may not commit waste or
nuisance upon the Property and that the Tenant agrees to preserve the house on
the Property, as well as section 6 which states generally that the Tenant
“shall keep and maintain the Property (including all of the Improvements) in
safe condition and repair and in compliance with all applicable Legal
Requirements in all material respects.” (Compl., Ex 2., pp. 9-10, §§ 5.2-5.3,
6.) The Landlord presents evidence that the Tenant failed to prevent the Property
from being occupied by homeless individuals and trespassers, who vandalized the
Property and started multiple fires requiring the intervention of the fire
department. (Ziakas Decl., ¶¶ 2-7.) The Landlord presents evidence that the
Property was maintained in a derelict condition caused by the Tenant’s failure
to secure and protect the Property and that repeated break-ins and occupancy by
trespassers led to the Code Enforcement Bureau issuing an Abatement Order.
(COE, Exs. 13-16 [UGS Incident Reports], 17 [Order to Abate Vacant Structure], 18
[Notice of Building Classified as Nuisance], 19 [8/15/24 UGS Incident Report],
31 [8/15/24 Property Photographs].)
Last, in so far as the above
covenants in the Ground Lease could be performed, the Landlord shows that it
served the Tenant with proper written notice on May 13, 2024 (Compl., Ex. 2-3.),
and that the Tenant failed to cure the defects within 30 days (COE Exs. 13-16 [UGS
incident reports detailing break-ins, trespassers, occupants, and fires at the
Subject Property between June 20 and July 11, 2024]; Levinson Decl., ¶ 7
[property taxes still outstanding as of July 15, 2024.] 
Thus, the Landlord has shown that
(1) the Tenant is still in possession of the Property; (2) the Tenant holds the
Property under a Ground Lease agreement; (3) the Tenant failed to fulfill certain
conditions and perform certain covenants of the Ground Lease regarding property
taxes, waste/nuisance, and maintenance; and (4) Landlord properly served the
Tenant with written notice to perform or deliver possession of the property. 
Accordingly, Landlord has met its
burden to make a prima facie showing that no issues of triable material fact exist
as to the unlawful detainer claim. 
The burden thus shifts to the
Tenant to make a rebuttal prima facie showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists. In an unlawful detainer motion for summary judgment, a defendant
must show either that there exists a complete defense to the action or that the
plaintiff cannot prove one of the necessary elements of unlawful detainer. (Code.
Civ. Proc. § 437c subd. (p)(2).)
The Tenant argues that there is a
triable issue of material fact as to whether the Tenant’s failure to timely pay
the property taxes is a material breach sufficient to give the Landlord a right
to terminate the Ground Lease considering the Tenant has since paid the
outstanding taxes in full, and the delay has not resulted in any detriment to
the value of the Property. (Opp. pp. 4-5; Scott Decl. ¶¶ 6-7.) 
Next, the Tenant argues that
summary judgment is not proper because it has an equitable defense to the
unlawful detainer action, specifically invoking the doctrine of substantial
compliance. Tenant asserts that it has substantially complied with sections
5.2, 5.3 and 6 of the Ground Lease because the Tenant has hired a new security
company, increased security at the Property, removed the graffiti and trash at
the Property, and further secured the Property with a fence and barrier.
(Reply, p. 8; Scott Decl. ¶¶ 10-11, 13-14.)  
In reply, the Landlord argues that
materiality is not at issue because the Landlord is not seeking rescission
based on a material breach of the Ground Lease, but rather is seeking to
terminate the Ground Lease pursuant to the specific grounds for termination as
provided in the Lease. The Landlord argues that the Tenant “may not escape
accountability by characterizing its breach as minor or trivial as the express
terms of the Ground Lease govern the question and do not exempt such breaches.”
(Reply, p. 4:8-9.) 
However, upon review of the
relevant termination provision in the Ground Lease, the provision in the Lease
does explicitly contemplate materiality. Section 29.1(c) states: “if Tenant
shall fail to perform or comply in any material respect with any term of
this Lease (other than those referred to in subdivisions (a) or (b) above or
(d) or (e) below) and, in any such case, such failure shall continue for more
than thirty (30) calendar days after Tenant’s receipt of written notice of such
failure from Landlord, provided that, in the case of any such failure that is
susceptible of cure but that cannot reasonably with commercially reasonable
diligence, be cured within such 30-day period, if Tenant shall promptly have
commenced to cure the same and shall thereafter prosecute the curing thereof
with commercially reasonable diligence, the period within which such failure
may be cured shall be extended for such further period as shall be reasonably
necessary for the curing thereof with diligence.” (emphasis added) (Compl., Ex.
2, p. 51 § 29.1(c).)
Tenant asserts that it has since
paid the outstanding property taxes and implemented measures to cure the waste,
nuisance and maintenance defects. (Scott Decl. ¶¶ 10-11, 13-14.) Thus, although
the Tenant does not dispute that it breached certain conditions of the lease,
the Tenant has presented triable issues of fact, i.e. Tenant’s untimely
payment of property taxes and belated efforts to secure and maintain the
property, that the breaches were not material. The termination provision of the
Ground Lease provides that an ‘Event of Default’ occurs if the Tenant fails to
comply in a material respect with the terms of the lease. Consequently, determination
of whether Tenant’s actions constitute a minor or material breach is relevant
to the determination of whether an ‘Event of Default’ occurred thus triggering
the Landlord’s right to terminate the Lease. Liberally construing the evidence
in support of the party opposing summary judgment, as the Court must, a
reasonable trier of fact could determine that the breaches were immaterial. 
Thus, the Tenant has shown that a
triable issue of material fact exists as to whether the Landlord can establish
the third element of an unlawful detainer action – whether the tenant failed to
fulfill a condition or perform a covenant of the agreement. 
Accordingly, the motion for summary
judgment is DENIED.  
2. Summary
Adjudication 
            In the
alternative, Landlord moves for summary adjudication on the Tenant’s first
through fourth affirmative defenses. In the opposition, the Tenant does not address
or oppose the arguments for summary adjudication on its affirmative defenses.  
a.     
First Affirmative Defense, Failure to State a Claim
The Landlord argues that it has alleged
facts sufficient to state a claim upon which relief may be granted.  (Mot. p. 18:8-11.) 
b.    
Second Affirmative Defense, Failure to Mitigate
Damages 
The Landlord argues that a landlord
cannot mitigate its damages by leasing a property to another tenant while the
original tenant is still in possession of the property and further that the
defense is inapplicable because the Landlord is not claiming damages. (Mot. p.
18:14-24.)
c.     
Third Affirmative Defense, Equitable Defenses  
The Landlord argues that the Tenant
has not established any facts supporting waiver, estoppel or unclean hands
applicable to Landlord. (Mot. pp. 18:27-19:13.) 
d.    
Fourth Affirmative Defense, Intervening/Superseding
Acts 
The Landlord argues that the Tenant
has not presented any facts establishing an intervening or superseding act that
would excuse Tenant from its obligations to cure its violation of the Ground
Lease. (Mot. pp. 19:16-20:2.) 
Here, the Landlord has met its
initial burden to show that there is no triable issue of material fact on the first,
second, and fourth affirmative defenses, and Tenant has failed the rebut the showing
because it does not address the arguments in the opposition. However, as
discussed above, the Tenant does present facts showing substantial compliance
as a potential equitable defense. 
Thus, the motion for summary
adjudication is GRANTED as to the first, second, and fourth affirmative
defenses only.
III. Conclusion
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary
Judgment is DENIED. 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary
Adjudication is GRANTED as to Defendants’ First, Second, and Fourth Affirmative
Defenses.