 Case Number:  BC611486    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



GABRIEL RUEDA, also known as GABRIEL SALVADOR (an individual),
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
EMMANUEL D. PACQUIAO (an individual); FREDERICK ROACH (an
  individual); KEITH M. DAVIDSON (an individual); CBS CORPORATION (a Delaware
  corporation); SHOWTIME NETWORKS, Inc. (a Delaware corporation); and DOES 1-25,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:          BC611486
 Hearing Date:   November
  7, 2024
 Trial Date:        January
  14, 2025
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Motion for Additional
  Time to Complete Deposition of Leslie Moonves [RES ID #6534]



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings
Plaintiff Gabriel Rueda (Rueda)
sues Defendants Frederick (Freddie) Roach, Keith M. Davidson, Paramount Global
(f/k/a ViacomCBS, f/k/a CBS Corporation), Showtime Networks, Inc. (Showtime),
and Does 1-25 pursuant to a February 2, 2024, Third Amended Complaint (TAC).
The TAC alleges claims of: (1) Breach of Oral Contract against the Showtime
Defendants and Freddie Roach; (2) Omitted [Breach of Implied Contract;
Dismissed by the Court]; (3) Common Counts for Labor, Work, and Services
against the Showtime Defendants and Freddie Roach; (4) Quantum Meruit against
the Showtime Defendants and Freddie Roach; (5) Fraud in the Inducement against
Freddie Roach; (6) Fraudulent Misrepresentation against Freddie Roach; (7)
Omitted [Unjust Enrichment; Dismissed by the Court]; (8) Omitted [Attempted
Extortion; Dismissed by the Court]; and (9) Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress against the Showtime Defendants, Freddie Roach, and Defendant
Davidson. The claims against Emmanuel Pacquiao have been dismissed.
The claims arise from allegations
that Rueda, pursuant to an unpaid finder’s fee, introduced Leslie Moonves, the
then-president of CBS Corporation and Showtime Networks, to Defendant Roach,
who was the trainer and confidant of boxer Pacquiao. Moonves allegedly used the
introduction to broker a bout between Pacquiao and boxer Floyd Mayweather
Jr.—dubbed the “Fight of the Century”—that earned Pacquiao, Mayweather, and
Showtime Networks more than $430 million. According to Rueda, he is entitled to
2% of the gross proceeds from the fight received by Roach, Pacquiao, and
Paramount and Showtime.
B. Motion Before the Court
On October 4, 2024, Rueda filed the
instant motion for additional time to complete the deposition of Leslie Moonves
(Moonves). 
On October 25, 2024, non-party
Moonves filed an opposition to the motion. 
On October 31, 2024, Rueda replied.

 
II. Motion
A. Legal Standard 
The total time for deposition by
all counsel is generally limited to seven hours. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.290,
subd. (a).) However, a court shall allow additional time, beyond any limits
imposed by this section, if needed to fairly examine the deponent or if the
deponent, another person, or any other circumstance impedes or delays the
examination. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.290, subd. (a).) Subdivision (a) and
parts of subdivision (b) have been found by California courts to impose merely
presumptive restrictions that are applicable only if the court does not order
otherwise, thus giving courts ample discretion as to additional deposition
time. (Certainteed Corp. v. Superior Court (2014) 222 Cal.App.4th 1053,
1060-1062 (Certainteed) [seven-hour limit and 14-hour limit in complex
cases merely presumptive], superseded by statute on other grounds as discussed
in Cahill Construction Co., Inc. v. Superior Court (2021) 66 Cal.App.5th
777, 786-787 (Cahill) [Legislature responds to Certainteed by
enacting law becoming Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.295].) 
B. Analysis
Rueda moves for an order granting
2.5 additional hours to depose Moonves on the grounds that he has not had a
fair opportunity to fully and completely depose Moonves. Rueda asserts that he has
not had an opportunity to question Moonves about (1) destruction of a document
that contained evidence of the contract which showed Rueda was entitled to 2%
from the gross proceeds, and (2) the motives of Moonves and CBS to subject
Rueda to harassment. (Mot. pp. 4:22-5:1.) He argues that there is good cause for
the additional time as he was not able to depose Moonves on these topics previously
because counsel obstructed the deposition with excessive objections and
impermissible coaching. (Mot. pp. 5:8-9:6.) 
In opposition, Moonves argues that the
motion should be denied because (1) the discovery and motion cutoff date has
passed, (2) Rueda has had sufficient opportunity to examine Moonves on the
above topics, and (3) the motion is a bad-faith attempt to harass Moonves. 
Moonves asserts first that the motion
is procedurally improper because the discovery and motion cut-off date was
November 4 and this motion is set for hearing on November 7, and because Rueda
has neither submitted a motion requesting leave to reopen discovery nor
properly met and conferred with Moonves’ counsel. (Opp. pp. 7:5-8:18.) Second,
Moonves argues that Rueda has already deposed Moonves for seven and a half hours,
with an additional 90 minutes of questioning by other parties, that discovery
on the contract claims ended in 2023, and Rueda had the opportunity to ask
about the above-described topics but chose to examine Moonves on other topics,
including asking questions on topics and exhibits in 2024 that had been covered
in 2018. (Opp. pp. 8:21-11:20) Moonves also denies Rueda’s assertion that
Defendants or Moonves’ counsel obstructed the previous deposition and asserts
that any objections were reasonable and necessary. (Opp. pp. 11:23-14:2.) Third,
Moonves asserts that the motion is an unwarranted waste of time because he is a
nonparty to this action and has already provided significant testimony and
documents in this action. (Opp. pp. 14:4-15:11.) 
In reply, Rueda argues that the two
issues he seeks to examine Moonves about were not known during Moonves’ first
deposition in February 2018. (Reply, pp. 2:24-4:16.) He further argues that he
did not delay in seeking Moonves’ deposition because the issues are relevant to
his tort claims which were stayed for several years. (Reply, pp. 4:18-6:6.) Last,
Rueda argues that the Court should exercise its discretion to hear the motion despite
the November 4 discovery cut-off date because the motion was timely filed after
Moonves’ second deposition transcript was completed and before the discovery
cut-off date, but the first available hearing date on the Court’s calendar was
not until November 7. (Reply, pp. 6:9-7:3.) 
Here, the Court will exercise its
discretion to hear the motion on its merits despite the discovery cut-off date.
However, Rueda has not shown that an additional deposition is justified under
these circumstances. The topics Rueda seeks to depose Moonves on do not concern
new information that Rueda could not have examined Moonves about earlier. Both
the contract claims and the intentional infliction of emotional distress claim were
raised in this action in 2018. Thus, Rueda had the opportunity to question Moonves
about facts relevant to these claims in either of the two previous depositions.
To the extent Rueda argues that he did not know of the relevant issues prior to
Moonves’ first deposition in February 2018, each of the articles Rueda
references were published well before Moonves’s second deposition in August
2024. (See Reply, pp. 3-4 fns. 1-4.) Thus, Rueda could have questioned Moonves about
them at that second deposition. Plaintiff has not made a convincing case why he
was not able to ask all his questions of this witness in that time period, and
why he believes an additional 2.5 hours are needed. For example, it is unclear
how it would be helpful to have further deposition on the issue of Mr. Moonves’
phone number during the relevant time period, when he has already testified during
the August 2024 deposition that he doesn’t know. (Reply, p. 3.)
Thus, the motion is denied. 
III. Conclusion
Plaintiff’s Motion for Additional Time to Complete Deposition of Leslie
Moonves is DENIED.