 Case Number:  22STCV32202    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  A.   Case number 22STCV32202  On  October 3, 2022, Plaintiff Douglas Enrique Pena Arcia (“Arcia”) filed an action  against Defendants Joshua Zachary Justman, Justman Packaging & Display, and  Does 1-20 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence. (Case number  22STCV32202.)  On  December 7, 2022, Defendants Justman Packaging & Display and Joshua Justman  filed an answer.  B.   Case number 22AHCV01112  On  November 17, 2022, Plaintiff Jack Lau (“Lau”) filed an action against  Defendants Joshua Zachary Justman dba Justman Packaging and Display, Arcia, and  Does 1-20 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence. (Case number  22AHCV01112.)  On  February 6, 2023, Defendant Joshua Zachary Justman filed an answer.  On  February 16, 2023, Arcia filed an answer and a cross-complaint against  Cross-Defendants Joshua Zachary Justman dba Justman Packaging and Display and  Roes 1-50 for indemnity, comparative contribution, and declaratory relief.  On March 1, 2023, Cross-Defendant Joshua  Zachary Justman dba Justman Packaging and Display filed an answer to the  cross-complaint.  On  April 26, 2024, the Court dismissed Arcia from Lau’s complaint with prejudice  at Lau’s request. On May 30, 2024, the Court dismissed Arcia’s cross-complaint  with prejudice at Arcia’s request.  C.   Case number 22AHCV01173  On  November 28, 2022, Plaintiff Jairo Alejandro Benitez Linares filed an action  against Defendants Joshua Zachary Justman, Morley Justman, Justman Packaging  & Display, and Does 1-25 for motor vehicle tort and general negligence.  (Case number 22AHCV01173.)  On  January 31, 2023, Defendants Justman Packaging & Display, Joshua Justman,  and Morley Justman filed an answer. On February 15, 2023, Defendants Justman  Packaging & Display and Joshua Zachary Justman filed an amended answer.  On  March 23, 2023, Defendant Morley Justman filed an answer.  On November  19, 2024, the Court dismissed Plaintiff Jairo  Alejandro Benitez Linares’s complaint without prejudice at his request.  D.   The Court relates and consolidates the cases  On  February 24, 2023, the Court found that case numbers 22STCV32202, 22AHCV01112,  and 22AHCV01173 are related within the meaning of California Rules of Court,  rule 3.300(a). Case number 22STCV32202 became the lead case. The cases were  assigned to Department 31 at the Spring Street Courthouse for all purposes.  On  May 9, 2023, the Court granted the parties’ stipulated request to consolidate  the cases for all purposes. The cases were assigned to Department 31 in the  Spring Street Courthouse for all purposes. Case number 22STCV32202 remained the  lead case.  The  case was later reassigned to Department 28 of the Spring Street Courthouse.  Trial  is currently scheduled for January 27, 2025.  E.   This motion  On  September 20, 2024, Defendants Joshua Zachary Justman,  Justman Packaging & Display, and Morely Justman (“Moving Defendants”)  filed a motion for leave to take Arcia’s mental examination in the specialty of  neuropsychology.  The motion was set for  hearing on November 13, 2024.  On October  30, 2024, Arcia filed an opposition.  On  November 4, 2024, Moving Defendants filed a reply.  The Court continued the hearing to December  18, 2024.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  Moving  Defendants ask the Court for leave to conduct Arcia’s mental examination with neuropsychologist John T. Dunn, Ph.D., on November 21,  2024 at 9:00 a.m. at 23734 Valencia Blvd., Suite 306, Valencia, CA 9135.  Arcia  asks the Court to deny the motion.  LEGAL STANDARD   Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.310 provides:  “(a) If any  party desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination other than that  described in Article 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or by a mental  examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.  “(b) A motion  for an examination under subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place, manner,  conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and  the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform the  examination. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration  under Section 2016.040.  “(c) Notice  of the motion shall be served on the person to be examined and on all parties  who have appeared in the action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.310.)  Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.320 provides:  “(a) The  court shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section  2032.310 only for good cause shown.  “(b) If a  party stipulates as provided in subdivision (c), the court shall not order a  mental examination of a person for whose personal injuries a recovery is being  sought except on a showing of exceptional circumstances.  “(c) A  stipulation by a party under this subdivision shall include both of the  following:  “(1) A  stipulation that no claim is being made for mental and emotional distress over  and above that usually associated with the physical injuries claimed.  “(2) A  stipulation that no expert testimony regarding this usual mental and emotional  distress will be presented at trial in support of the claim for damages.  “(d) An order  granting a physical or mental examination shall specify the person or persons  who may perform the examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic  tests and procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.  “(e) If the  place of the examination is more than 75 miles from the residence of the person  to be examined, an order to submit to it shall be entered only if both of the  following conditions are satisfied:  “(1) The  court determines that there is good cause for the travel involved.  “(2) The  order is conditioned on the advancement by the moving party of the reasonable  expenses and costs to the examinee for travel to the place of examination.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.320.)   DISCUSSION  A.   Good cause  Moving  Defendants ask the Court to grant them leave to conduct a mental examination of  Arcia with a neuropsychologist because Arcia has placed his mental condition at  issue.  According to Moving Defendants,  Arcia’s treating neuropsychologist diagnosed Arcia with traumatic brain  disorder and other cognitive and psychiatric conditions.  Moving Defendants’ counsel met and conferred  with Arcia’s counsel before filing this motion.  Arcia  opposes the motion, arguing that, if the Court denies the motion, he will “waive  claims of cognitive impairment or mental distress damages, beyond garden variety  damages that the Code of Civil Procedure will allow in the absence of a claim  for psychological damages and will not present neuropsychological expert  opinion at trial.”  (Opposition p. 2.)  Arcia has not provided a stipulation that complies  with Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.320, subdivision (c).   First, rather than stipulating to the terms specified in the statute, Arcia  attempts to bargain with the Court for a favorable ruling in return for a future stipulation.  Second, Arcia has  not agreed “that no expert testimony regarding this usual mental and emotional  distress will be presented at trial in support of the claim for damages.”  (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2032.320, subd. (c)(2).)  Arcia has only promised not to present neuropsychological expert opinion.  Therefore, the Court does not accept Arcia’s purported stipulation.  The  Court finds good cause and grants Moving Defendants' motion for leave to conduct Arcia’s  mental examination with neuropsychologist  John T. Dunn, Ph.D.  B.   Audio recording  Code  of Civil Procedure section 2032.530, subdivision (a), provides that “The  examiner and examinee shall have the right to record a mental examination by  audio technology.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §  2032.530, subd. (a).)  “[S]ince section  2032.530, subdivision (a) grants the examinee the right to record a mental  examination by audio technology, it implies the examinee may retain a copy of  the audio recording.”  (Randy's  Trucking, Inc. v. Superior Court (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 818, 837 (Randy’s  Trucking).)  In  their motion, Moving Defendants assert that “Plaintiff may audiotape  the clinical examination only.”  (Motion  p. 3.)  Moving Defendants cite no legal authority for this limitation. In his declaration, Dr. Dunn  states: “The clinical interview of the examination may be audio recorded by  plaintiff. The remainder of the examination may be audiorecorded at plaintiff’s  request, but will not be released to plaintiff, plaintiff’s counsel, or any  person not licensed as a psychologist, unless the court makes an appropriate  protective order to prevent the improper release or use of any confidential  testing materials included in that recording.”   (Dunn dec. ¶ 8.)  The  Court orders that Arcia may record all portions of the mental examination by  audio technology.  (See L. Edmon & C.  Karnow, Cal. Practice Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (Rutter 2024) ¶  8:1595, p.8I-25 [“Both the examiner and the examinee have the right to record  the entire examination by audio (but not video) technology”].)  In addition, portions of the examination may  be recorded by audio technology at Arcia’s request.  The  parties may submit a stipulated protective order restricting the dissemination  of information contained in the audio recordings for the Court’s approval.     C.   Raw data and testing materials  In Randy's  Trucking, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th 818, the trial court granted the  defendants’ motion to compel the plaintiff’s mental examination by a  neuropsychologist.  (Id. at p.  824.)  The court denied the defendants’  request to transfer the testing information to the plaintiffs’ expert rather  than the plaintiffs’ counsel.  (Id.  at p. 832.)  Instead, the court ordered  the neuropsychologist to provide an audio recording of the examination and  “‘all raw data’” to the plaintiffs’ counsel within 30 days after the  examination subject to a protective order.   (Ibid.)  The defendants  petitioned for a writ of mandate.  (Id.  at p. 825.)  The  Court of Appeal denied writ relief.  (Randy’s  Trucking, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 825.)  The court observed, “[t]here is no statutory  authority . . . precluding a trial court from ordering the disclosure of test  materials or test data when ordering a mental examination.”  (Id. at p. 834, citing Carpenter v.  Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249, 271.)  And “given the trial court’s broad discretion  in discovery matters, the trial court . . . has the power to order disclosure  of test materials and data to plaintiff’s attorney.”  (Id. at p. 835.)  Therefore, the trial court had discretion to  order the production to the plaintiffs’ counsel of the raw data and audio  recording.  (Id. at p. 837.)  The  defendants argued the trial court abused its discretion because the need to  protect the neuropsychologist from violating her ethical and professional  obligations outweighed the plaintiffs’ need for the raw data and audio  recording. (Randy’s Trucking, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p.  837.)  But the neuropsychologist “did not  explain why her ethical obligations would be violated if a court ordered her to  disclose the raw data and audio recording to plaintiffs’ attorney subject to a  protective order.”  (Id. at pp.  837-838.)  The  Court of Appeal reasoned that, “[w]ithout the raw data and audio recording,  [the plaintiffs] cannot effectively scrutinize the way the data was collected,  determine if there are discrepancies, and cross-examine the neuropsychologist  on the basis and reasons for the neuropsychologist’s opinion.”  (Randy’s Trucking, supra, 91  Cal.App.5th at p. 838.)  Moreover, the  plaintiffs “should not be forced to retain an expert to gain access to these  materials and even if they do retain one, that expert can only assist the  attorney in preparing for cross-examination; to prepare and conduct an  effective cross-examination, ‘the attorney must themselves possess more than a  second-hand understanding of the information being scrutinized.’ ”  (Ibid.)  Here  too, Moving Defendants have not submitted a declaration from their  neuropsychologist explaining why his ethical obligations would be violated if a  court ordered him to disclose the raw data to Arcia’s counsel subject to a  protective order.  (See Randy’s  Trucking, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at pp. 837-838.)   The Court concludes that Arcia has a  legitimate need for the raw data and the concerns about maintaining test  security can be satisfied with a protective order.  (See Randy’s Trucking, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 838.)  The Court exercises its discretion and orders  release of the raw data and testing materials to Arcia’s counsel subject to a protective order.  (See id. at p. 842.)  CONCLUSION  The  Court GRANTS the motion of Defendants Joshua Zachary Justman, Justman Packaging  & Display, and Morely Justman for leave to take Plaintiff Douglas Enrique Pena Arcia’s mental examination in the  specialty of neuropsychology.  The  examination will take place on December 23, 2024 or on another date to which the parties agree, with neuropsychologist John T. Dunn, Ph.D., at 23734 Valencia Blvd.,  Suite 306, Valencia, CA 9135.  The  examination will consist of an interview portion that may include the taking of a psychosocial history including medical  history, psychiatric history, legal history, marital history, developmental  history, habits, educational background and vocational history.  The  examination will also include tests, limited to the following:  WAIS-IV;  WMS-IV; Rey Complex Figure; Rey Auditory Verbal Learning; Personality  Assessment Inventory; Beck Depression Inventory; Beck Anxiety Inventory;  Category Test; WCST; Advanced Clinical Solutions; Trail Making Test; Stroop  Test; Hooper Visual Organization Test; Groove Pegboard Test; Finger Tapping  Test; and SPECTRA.  The  examination will take approximately seven hours, including breaks. Plaintiff Douglas Enrique Pena Arcia may record the entire examination using audio technology.  If any portion of the examination is recorded by audio technology at Plaintiff Douglas Enrique Pena Arcia's request, the recording will be released to his counsel subject to a protective order.The raw data and testing materials from the examination will be released to counsel for Plaintiff Douglas Enrique Pena Arcia subject to a protective order.   Moving  parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  parties are ordered to file the proof of service of this ruling with the Court  within five days.