 Case Number:  23STCV07545    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  28 Having  considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers, the Court rules as  follows.  BACKGROUND  A.   Previous proceedings  On  April 5, 2023, Plaintiffs Sonia Velazquez (“Velazquez”) and Brenda Marquez,  individually, as heirs and as successors in interest to Victoria Velazquez,  deceased (collectively, “Plaintiffs”), filed this action against Defendants  City of Los Angeles (“City”), Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles (“HACLA”),  and Does 1-50 for (1) wrongful death and survival for dangerous condition of  public property and (2) wrongful death and survival for negligence.  On  June 5, 2023, HACLA filed an answer.  On  June 26, 2023, the City filed an answer and a cross-complaint against  Cross-Defendants HACLA and Roes 1-10 for apportionment of fault,  indemnification, and declaratory relief.  On  November 27, 2023, the Court granted Velaquez’s motion to deem admitted matters  specified in requests for admission served on HACLA and deemed the matters  admitted.  The Court also granted  Velaquez’s motions to compel HACLA to comply with discovery requests.  Trial  is currently scheduled for March 20, 2025.  B.   These motions  1.    Motion for terminating sanctions  On September 30, 2024, Plaintiffs Sonia Velazquez and  Brenda Marquez (“Plaintiffs”) filed a motion for terminating sanctions against HACLA  for willful destruction of evidence, or for issue or evidentiary sanctions  against HACLA and the City.  The motion was set for hearing on December 2,  2024.  On November 15, 2024, HACLA and the  City filed oppositions and requests for monetary sanctions.  On November 21, 2024, Plaintiffs filed  replies.  The Court continued the hearing  to December 18, 2024.  2.    Motion to compel deposition of person most qualified  and for production of documents  On  October 9, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a motion to compel HACLA to produce its person  most qualified and produce documents at a deposition and for sanctions.  The motion was set for hearing on December 9,  2024.  On November 22, 2024, HACLA filed  an opposition.  On December 2, 2024,  Plaintiffs filed a reply.  The Court  continued the hearing to December 18, 2024.  PARTIES’ REQUESTS  A.   Motion for terminating sanctions  Plaintiffs  ask the Court to impose terminating sanctions on HACLA or to impose issue  and evidentiary sanctions on HACLA and the City.  HACLA  and the City ask the Court to deny the motion and to impose monetary sanctions on  Plaintiffs. B.   Motion to compel deposition of person most qualified Plaintiffs  ask the Court to compel HACLA to produce its person most qualified about inspections for  deposition and to compel HACLA to produce responsive documents. HACLA  asks the Court to deny the motion and to impose sanctions on Plaintiffs.  I.                MOTION FOR  TERMINATING SANCTIONS  A.   Legal authority  1.    Monetary, issue, evidentiary, and terminating  sanctions  Code  of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 provides in part:  “To the extent authorized by the chapter governing any  particular discovery method or any other provision of this title, the court,  after notice to any affected party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity  for hearing, may impose the following sanctions against anyone engaging in  conduct that is a misuse of the discovery process:  “(a) The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering  that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney  advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including  attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The court may  also impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has  engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised  that assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision  of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the  one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other  circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.  “(b) The court may impose an issue sanction ordering  that designated facts shall be taken as established in the action in accordance  with the claim of the party adversely affected by the misuse of the discovery  process. The court may also impose an issue sanction by an order prohibiting  any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from supporting or  opposing designated claims or defenses.  “(c) The court may impose an evidence sanction by an  order prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process  from introducing designated matters in evidence.  “(d) The court may impose a terminating sanction by  one of the following orders:  “(1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of  the pleadings of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process.  “(2) An order staying further proceedings by that  party until an order for discovery is obeyed.  “(3) An order dismissing the action, or any part of  the action, of that party.  “(4) An order rendering a judgment by default against  that party.  “(e) The court may impose a contempt sanction by an  order treating the misuse of the discovery process as a contempt of court.  “(f) (1) Notwithstanding subdivision (a), or any other  section of this title, absent exceptional circumstances, the court shall not  impose sanctions on a party or any attorney of a party for failure to provide  electronically stored information that has been lost, damaged, altered, or  overwritten as the result of the routine, good faith operation of an electronic  information system.  “(2) This subdivision shall not be construed to alter  any obligation to preserve discoverable information.  (Code Civ. Proc., §  2023.030.)     2.    Terminating sanctions for failure to comply with  discovery orders  A  violation of a discovery order may support the imposition of terminating  sanctions. (See Collison & Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th  1611, 1620.) Terminating sanctions are appropriate when a party persists in  disobeying the court's orders. (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d  771, 795-796 (Deyo).)  A  terminating sanction is a "drastic measure which should be employed with  caution." (Deyo, supra, 84 Cal.App.3d at p. 793.) "A  decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a  violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows  that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery  rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction." (Mileikowsky  v. Tenet Healthsystem (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280 (“Mileikowsky”).)   3.    Spoliation of evidence  Spoliation  includes “the failure to preserve property for another’s use as evidence in  pending or reasonably foreseeable litigation.” (Reeves v. MV Transportation,  Inc. (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 666, 681.)  B.   Discussion  Plaintiffs  ask the Court to impose terminating sanctions on HACLA, strike its answer, and  enter judgment against it because, despite Plaintiffs’ request that HACLA  preserve evidence, HACLA allegedly failed to preserve a security video and  other evidence that supported Plaintiffs’ allegations against HACLA.  In the alternative, Plaintiffs ask the Court  to impose issue and evidentiary sanctions against HACLA and the City.  In New  Albertson's, Inc. v. Superior Court (2009) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403 (New  Albertson’s), the plaintiffs filed a motion for discovery sanctions arguing  that the defendant had willfully destroyed video recordings and a photograph  after the plaintiffs demanded the production of the evidence.  The plaintiffs argued that the defendant had  a duty to preserve relevant evidence and that an appropriate sanction for the  intentional spoliation of evidence was either (1) an order establishing the  defendant’s liability, or (2) an order establishing that the defendant had  notice of a dangerous condition on its property before the incident. The  plaintiffs argued that these sanctions were appropriate despite the absence of  a prior court order to preserve or produce the destroyed evidence because such  an order would be futile after the defendant had acknowledged that the evidence  was destroyed.  (New Albertsons, supra,  168 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1413-1414.)  The  defendant argued in opposition that the court had no authority to issue the  requested sanctions absent either a failure to obey an order compelling  discovery or an indisputable showing of the intentional destruction of  evidence.  (Id. at pp.  1414-1415.)  The  trial court ordered that “Defendant is precluded from entering any portion of  the security videotape into evidence, or from referring to the contents of the  tape. Plaintiff is entitled to a jury instruction that defendant destroyed the  tape after receiving notice to preserve it and after reviewing it, and the  inferences the jury may make that the video contained evidence unfavorable to  defendant.”  (New Albertson’s, supra,  168 Cal.App.4th at p. 1416.)  The  Court of Appeal issued a peremptory writ of mandate directing the trial court  to deny the sanctions motion.  The  appellate court stated:  “[W]e believe that the concern expressed in [Cedars–Sinai  Medical Center v. Superior Court (1998) 18 Cal.4th 1, 15-16] about  meritless spoliation claims where the evidence was destroyed innocently in the  ordinary course of business is an appropriate concern in this context as well.  A party moving for discovery sanctions based on the intentional destruction of  evidence could argue that the mere fact that the evidence no longer exists  supports an inference of intentional spoliation. Rather than decide the facts  with respect to the intentional destruction of evidence and impose a  nonmonetary sanction on a pretrial motion in circumstances not contemplated by  the discovery statutes, we believe that in most cases of purported spoliation  the facts should be decided and any appropriate inference should be made by the  trier of fact after a full hearing at trial.  * *  * “Our conclusion that the sanctions are unauthorized  does not preclude an instruction that if the jury finds that [the defendant]  intentionally destroyed evidence, it may infer that the evidence would have  been unfavorable to Albertsons. (See CACI No. 204.) Such an instruction is  appropriate if there is evidence of willful suppression, that is, evidence that  a party destroyed evidence with the intention of preventing its use in  litigation.  [Citations]  If so instructed, the jury may consider all  relevant and admissible evidence in determining whether evidence was willfully  suppressed, including the letter requesting the preservation of evidence.”  (New Albertson’s, supra,  168 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1431, 1434.)  Here  too, the facts concerning Plaintiffs’ spoliation of  evidence claim should be decided by the trier of fact after a full hearing at  trial.  At that point, the Court can  address the parties’ requests.  The Court  therefore denies Plaintiffs’ motion without prejudice.  II.             MOTION TO  COMPEL DEPOSITION OF HACLA’S PERSON MOST QUALIFIED  A.   Legal authority  Code  of Civil Procedure section 2025.450 provides in part:  “(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party  to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party,  or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section  2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails  to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection  any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in  the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order  compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for  inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible  thing described in the deposition notice.  “(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with  both of the following:  “(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing  good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document,  electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the  deposition notice.  “(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and  confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to  attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored  information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration  stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the  nonappearance.  * * *  “(g) (1) If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted,  the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with  Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against  the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the  court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial  justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction  unjust.  “(2) On motion of any other party who, in person or by  attorney, attended at the time and place specified in the deposition notice in  the expectation that the deponent’s testimony would be taken, the court shall  impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)  in favor of that party and against the deponent or the party with whom the  deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the  sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make  the imposition of the sanction unjust. . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,  subds. (a), (b), (g).)  B.   Discussion  On August 2, 2024, Plaintiffs noticed the deposition of HACLA’s  person most qualified regarding inspections for August 16, 2024.  Plaintiffs’ counsel agreed to change the  deposition date to August 27, 2024 at the request of HACLA’s counsel.  Plaintiffs’ counsel later agreed to continue  the deposition date to September 10, 2024 at the request of HACLA’s  counsel.  Plaintiffs re-noticed the  deposition for September 10, 2024.   However, HACLA did not produce its person most qualified regarding inspections  on September 10, 2024.  On  September 10, 16, and 23, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel asked HACLA’s counsel to  provide new dates for the deposition of HACLA’s person most qualified regarding  inspections.  HACLA’s counsel did not  respond.  Plaintiffs’  counsel then noticed the deposition of  HACLA’s person most qualified regarding inspections for October 9, 2024.  Plaintiffs’ counsel declined HACLA’s counsel's request to set the deposition on another date because HACLA did not provide an  alternative date.  Plaintiffs’ counsel  did not receive any alternative dates for the deposition by the time Plaintiffs  filed their motion to compel.  (The Court assumes that HACLA's person most knowledgeable for inspections did not appear for deposition on October 9, 2024.)   In HACLA's November 22, 2024 opposition to Plaintiffs' motion, HACLA argued the deposition of its person most qualified would take place on November  26, 2024.  In  their reply, Plaintiffs argue that HACLA did not produce its person most qualified  regarding inspections or produce responsive documents on November 26,  2024.  According to Plaintiffs, HACLA  produced Mario Ramsey (“Ramsey”), the site manager for Pico Gardens.  HACLA previously produced Ramsey as its  person most qualified regarding the locking of the entrance gates.  Ramsey previously testified that HUD inspects the premises.  However, Ramsey did not know when the last  inspection was conducted and did not know the name of the company which  conducted the inspections or the name of any of the inspectors.  Ramsey also stated that Ann Lynch in the “main  office” coordinates the annual inspections, meets with the inspector on the  site, and would know the name of the company and the inspectors.  Plaintiffs argue that Ramsey was not prepared  to testify as the person most knowledgeable about inspections.  Plaintiffs also contend that HACLA produced  non-responsive documents.  The  Court continues the hearing and orders HACLA to file and serve a supplemental brief  discussing whether HACLA satisfied its obligation to produce its person most  knowledgeable about inspections and whether it produced documents responsive to Plaintiffs’  operative deposition notice.  Plaintiffs  may file and serve a responsive brief.  CONCLUSION  The  Court DENIES without prejudice the motion for terminating sanctions against Defendant Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles  or for issue or evidentiary sanctions against Defendants Housing Authority of  the City of Los Angeles and City of Los Angeles filed by Plaintiffs Sonia Velazquez and Brenda Marquez.  The  Court CONTINUES the hearing on the motion to compel Defendant Housing Authority  of the City of Los Angeles to produce  its person most qualified and produce documents at a deposition and for  sanctions filed by Plaintiffs Sonia Velazquez and Brenda Marquez.  The Court continues the hearing to a date to be  provided at the December 18, 2024 hearing.   At least 10 court days before the continued hearing, Defendant Housing Authority  of the City of Los Angeles is to file and serve a supplemental brief discussing  whether it satisfied its obligation to produce its person most knowledgeable  about inspections and produced documents responsive to Plaintiffs’ operative  deposition notice.  Plaintiffs Sonia  Velazquez and Brenda Marquez may file and serve a responsive brief no later  than five court days before the continued hearing.  Moving  parties are ordered to give notice of this ruling.  Moving  parties are ordered to file proof of service of this ruling within five days.