  Case Number:  19TRCV0646    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                               Wednesday, February 21, 2024 Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar No. 14
 
  
PROCEEDINGS
 
Avi
Amar, et al. v. Ford Motor Company, et al.
19TRCV00646
1.      Ford Motor Company’s Motion to Strike and Tax Costs  


TENTATIVE RULING
 
Ford Motor Company’s Motion to Strike and Tax Costs is
denied. 
 
Background 
 
            Plaintiffs filed the Complaint on July 29, 2019. Plaintiffs
allege the following facts. Plaintiffs allege that their 2017 Ford Explorer,
which was manufactured and distributed by Defendant, suffers from widespread
defects — including the power train defect — and that Defendant has been unable
to repair the vehicle within a reasonable number of attempts. Plaintiffs further
allege that Defendant knew that the vehicle suffered from the prevalent
defects, but nevertheless refused to repurchase the vehicle—a willful violation
of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (“Song-Beverly Act”). Plaintiffs
allege the following causes of action: 1. Violation of Subdivision (d) of Civ.
Code Section 1793.2; 2. Violation of Subdivision (b) of Civ. Code 1793.2; (3)
Violation of Subdivision (a)(3) of Civ. Code Section 1793.2; 4. Breach of
Express Written Warranty; 5. Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability. 
 
            The parties entered into a settlement agreement. Plaintiffs
obtained full restitution of $15,000.00, and a civil penalty damage award of
$15,000.00. Plaintiffs retained their vehicle. Further, Defendant Ford Motor
Company (“FMC”) agreed that Plaintiffs could seek an award of costs, and an
award of attorneys’ fees recoverable pursuant to California Civil Code Section
1794(d). On July 18, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s Motion for Attorneys’
Fees and Costs, in part. Attorney’s fees were awarded in the sum of $64,196.25.
In the minute order, the Court noted that costs
would be governed
by a Memorandum of Costs and/or any subsequent Motion to Tax Costs.
 
            Request for Judicial Notice
 
            Defendant’s request for judicial notice is granted
pursuant to Evidence Code section 452(d).
 
            Motion
to Tax Costs
 
            “Any notice of motion to strike or to tax costs must be
served and filed 15 days after service of the cost memorandum. If the cost
memorandum was served by mail, the period is extended as provided in Code of
Civil Procedure section 1013. If the cost memorandum was served electronically,
the period is extended as provided in Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6(a)(4).”
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1700(b)(1).
 
            “Unless objection is made to the entire cost memorandum,
the motion to strike or tax costs must refer to each item objected to by the
same number and appear in the same order as the corresponding cost item claimed
on the memorandum of costs and must state why the item is objectionable.” Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1700(b)(2).
 
            “If the items appearing in a cost bill appear to be
proper charges, the burden is on the party seeking to tax costs to show that
they were not reasonable or necessary. On the other hand, if the items are
properly objected to, they are put in issue and the burden of proof is on the
party claiming them as costs. Whether a cost item was reasonably necessary to
the litigation presents a question of fact for the trial court and its decision
is reviewed for abuse of discretion.” Ladas
v. California State Auto. Assn. (1993) 19 Cal.App.4th 761, 774 (internal
citation omitted).
 
            Defendant moves for an order to
strike and tax costs of Plaintiff. “Defendant moves to strike the following
costs: A. Item 4(d): Deposition of Vincent Damico, Jr. – $3,357.65 B. Item
4(e): Deposition Transcript of Thea Wilson – $1,475.70 C. Item 4(e): Deposition
Transcript of Erich Kemnitz – $2,502.35 Total: $7,335.70 in unnecessary and
unreasonable deposition costs related to 12,555 pages of Exhibits attached to
depositions that totaled approximately 424 pages of deposition testimony. In
the alternative, Defendant asks the this (sic) Court to tax the following
costs: A. Item 4: $15,551.70 in total depositions costs.” (Notice of Motion,
page 2, lines 5-13.)
 
            Defendant argues that, as to
Plaintiffs’ costs related to three depositions of Defendant’s Persons Most
Qualified (“PMQ”), Plaintiffs attached unnecessary and duplicative documents as
exhibits to these depositions. Defendant contends that Plaintiffs fail to show why
this was necessary. In addition, according to Defendant, Plaintiffs requested
copies of voluminous exhibits which were already in Plaintiffs’ possession.
 
            Plaintiffs adequately established
that the costs related to the depositions were reasonable and necessary. As to
the transcript costs and the related exhibits that were attached, Plaintiffs
show that the costs were reasonable and necessary. The exhibits that were
attached were sufficiently relevant to the deponents’ expected deposition
testimony. The fact that, perhaps, not all the documents proved to be needed,
after the fact, is not the relevant inquiry. Plaintiffs were entitled to
meticulously prepare for the depositions by making any pertinent documents and
exhibits available. The Court is not in the position of second-guessing
Plaintiff, after the fact. As an analogy, perhaps the length of a deposition
itself is several hours, but, at trial, the deposing party ended up using only
a small portion of the testimony. However, at the time, it appeared that the
deposition was reasonable and necessary to the litigation. The Court would not
then, after the fact, using 20/20 hindsight, determine that the deposing party
is only entitled to the cost for 10 minutes of the deposition. 
 
            It was proper for Plaintiffs to prepare
the documents and exhibits for use at the depositions, at a minimum, for
authentication and foundation purposes. It could have clearly been anticipated
that Defendant would insert an objection had Plaintiffs asked a question
related to a document which Plaintiffs had not made available for the deponent
to review. Defendant also argues that the number of documents and exhibits
would not have been needed if this was not a Zoom deposition. However, this
argument is speculative. In addition, the fact that Defendant itself may have
been in possession of some of the documents does not negate Plaintiffs’ right
to properly prepare for the depositions by making sure that all pertinent
documents are available. 
 
               Therefore, for the foregoing
reasons, Defendant’s Motion to Strike and Tax Costs is denied.
 
               Plaintiffs are
ordered to give notice of this ruling.