 Case Number:  23TRCP00246    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                               Wednesday,
February 21, 2024 
Department M                                                                                   
                                         Calendar No. 16 
  
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Singapore Airlines Limited v. CSDS
Aircraft Sales & Leasing, Inc.      
23TRCP00246
1.      Singapore Airlines Limited’s Motion for Summary
Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication   


TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Singapore
Airlines Limited’s Motion for Summary Judgment is granted.
 
Background

 
            Plaintiff filed its Complaint on June 13, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. This is an action for recognition of a foreign
money judgment pursuant to the California Uniform Foreign-Country Money
Judgments Recognition Act (“Act”), CCP § 1713, et. seq. Plaintiff obtained six
money judgments against Defendant in Singapore. The underlying dispute stemmed
from Defendant’s repudiatory breach of a contract for the sale of a Boeing
777-212 aircraft.
 
Requests
for Judicial Notice
 
            Plaintiff’s request for judicial
notice is granted pursuant to Evidence Code Section 452(d)(f) and (h). The
Court takes judicial notice of the existence of the documents set forth, but
not necessarily the truth of any matters asserted therein.
 
            Defendant’s request for judicial
notice is granted, in part, pursuant to Evidence Code Section 452(d)(f) and (h).
The Court takes judicial notice of the existence of the documents set forth,
but not necessarily the truth of any matters asserted therein. As to the
specific matters set forth in the request, any specific objections made by the
Plaintiff will be addressed below.
 
            Objections
 
            Plaintiff’s objections to
Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice:
            Objections 1 to 5 are sustained.
 
            Plaintiff’s objections to the
declaration of Lara Shapiro:
            Objections 6 to 16 are sustained.
 
            Plaintiff’s objections to the
declaration of Benedict Sirimanne:
            Objections 17 to 18 are overruled.
            Objections 19 to 35 are sustained.  The Court notes that as to the matters
specifically objected to in objections 28 to 30, the declarant provided no
foundation to establish his personal knowledge of the matters set forth
therein.   
 
Motion
for Summary Judgment and/or Adjudication

The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal. App. 4th 1110, 1119.)
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden
is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal. App. 4th 1510, 1519.)  A
defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or
her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has
shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.” CCP § 437c(p)(2).  “If the
plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.”  Avivi
v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.
 
“A plaintiff or cross-complainant has met his or her
burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if that party
has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment
on the cause of action. Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(1).
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the
court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except
evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Avivi,
159 Cal.App.4th at 467; CCP § 437c(c).)
 
Plaintiff moves for summary judgment on the grounds
that Plaintiff obtained six enforceable money judgments in Singapore against
Defendant and that Defendant cannot meet its burden to demonstrate any
exceptions exist under the Act. Alternatively, Plaintiff moves for summary
adjudication of 18 issues. Issue 1 mirrors the motion for summary judgment.  Issues 2 to 18 seek to adjudicate Defendant’s
affirmative defenses 1 to 17.
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1715 states, in relevant part:
“(a) Except as otherwise provided in subdivision (b),
this chapter applies to a foreign-country judgment to the extent that the
judgment both:
(1) Grants or denies recovery of a sum of money.
(2) Under the law of the foreign country where
rendered, is final, conclusive, and enforceable.
(c) A party seeking recognition of a foreign-country
judgment has the burden of establishing that the foreign-country judgment is
entitled to recognition under this chapter.”
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 1716 states:
 
“(a) Except as otherwise provided in subdivisions (b),
(c), (d), and (f), a court of this state shall recognize a foreign-country
judgment to which this chapter applies.
(b) A court of this state shall not recognize a
foreign-country judgment if any of the following apply:
(1) The judgment was rendered under a judicial system
that does not provide impartial tribunals or procedures compatible with the
requirements of due process of law.
(2) The foreign court did not have personal
jurisdiction over the defendant.
(3) The foreign court did not have jurisdiction over
the subject matter.
(c)(1) A court of this state shall not recognize a
foreign-country judgment if any of the following apply:
(A) The defendant in the proceeding in the foreign
court did not receive notice of the proceeding in sufficient time to enable the
defendant to defend.
(B) The judgment was obtained by fraud that deprived
the losing party of an adequate opportunity to present its case.
(C) The judgment or the cause of action or claim for
relief on which the judgment is based is repugnant to the public policy of this
state or of the United States.
(D) The proceeding in the foreign court was contrary
to an agreement between the parties under which the dispute in question was to
be determined otherwise than by proceedings in that foreign court.
(E) In the case of jurisdiction based only on personal
service, the foreign court was a seriously inconvenient forum for the trial of
the action.
(F) The judgment was rendered in circumstances that
raise substantial doubt about the integrity of the rendering court with respect
to the judgment.
(G) The specific proceeding in the foreign court
leading to the judgment was not compatible with the requirements of due process
of law.
(2) Notwithstanding an applicable ground for
nonrecognition under paragraph (1), the court may nonetheless recognize a
foreign-country judgment if the party seeking recognition of the judgment
demonstrates good reason to recognize the judgment that outweighs the ground
for nonrecognition.
(d) A court of this state is not required to recognize
a foreign-country judgment if the judgment conflicts with another final and
conclusive judgment.
(e) If the party seeking recognition of a
foreign-country judgment has met its burden of establishing recognition of the
foreign-country judgment pursuant to subdivision (c) of Section 1715, a party
resisting recognition of a foreign-country judgment has the burden of
establishing that a ground for nonrecognition stated in subdivision (b), (c),
or (d) exists.
(f) A court of this state shall not recognize a
foreign-country judgment for defamation if that judgment is not recognizable
under Section 4102 of Title 28 of the United States Code.”
 
“California courts must recognize a foreign judgment,
regardless of whether it has been appealed or is subject to appeal, so long as
the judgment is final, conclusive, and enforceable in the country where it was
rendered.” Manco Contracting Co. (W.L.L.) v. Bezdikian (2008) 45 Cal.4th
192, 201. 
 
Plaintiff has met its initial burden to prove that it
is entitled to judgment on its Complaint for recognition of foreign money
judgment. Plaintiff submitted competent evidence to show that it obtained a
final, conclusive, enforceable money judgment in Singapore. (Plaintiff’s
Separate Statement of Facts and Supporting Evidence, 1-59.) Defendant does not
meaningfully dispute that the Singapore judgment is final and conclusive.
(Defendant’s Response to Separate Statement of Facts, 50.)
 
Defendant argues that the Singapore judgment was not
based on a fair judicial process. Defendant appears to invoke the grounds set
forth in CCP §§ 1716(b)(1) and (c)(1)(C): “The judgment was rendered under a
judicial system that does not provide impartial tribunals or procedures
compatible with the requirements of due process of law. The judgment or the
cause of action or claim for relief on which the judgment is based is repugnant
to the public policy of this state or of the United States.” (Id.)
 
Defendant has failed to meet its burden to show that show
that “a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of
action or a defense thereto.” CCP 437c(p)(1). Defendant has not submitted
competent admissible evidence to show a triable issue of material fact that the
Singapore judgment was not based on a fair judicial process, that the Singapore
court was not impartial, that the Singapore court lacked integrity, that the
judgment is against the public policy of the U.S. or California, that the
Singapore court lacked jurisdiction, and/or that Singapore was an inconvenient
forum.
 
Defendant’s proffered evidence essentially consisted
of hearsay statements, speculation, and statements that lacked foundation and
authentication as to its belief in the lack of fairness and integrity in the
Singapore court. Defendant relies on unauthenticated newspaper articles and
Wikipedia posts which lack foundation to attempt to provide some theory as to
their belief that the Singapore judgment was unfair and lacked partiality.
These sources simply provided a modicum of support for a speculative theory
rather than competent admissible evidence that the Singapore court was
impartial to Defendant. Further, the principal of Defendant, Benedict Sirimanne,
provides a declaration attempting to support this belief but he provides no
foundation as to his statements regarding his belief that the Singaporean
government was so intertwined with the ownership of Singapore Airlines that
this must have somehow affected the court proceedings. Again, all these innuendos
simply provide speculations and self-serving conclusions rather than competent
evidence. None of the purported evidence provides a triable issue of material
fact as to whether the Singaporean court deprived Defendant of due process of
law and that the judgment is repugnant to the policy of the United States.
 
“[F]oreign courts are not required to adopt ‘every jot
and tittle of American due process. [. . . ] [W]e do not “insist on the
additional niceties of domestic jurisprudence” in deciding whether to enforce a
[foreign] judgment. In determining whether the specific proceeding that
resulted in the judgment conformed to due process requirements, the question is
whether the foreign proceeding conformed to what the Seventh Circuit has termed
the international concept of due process. Our task is to decide whether the
foreign procedures are fundamentally fair and do not offend basic fairness.” AO
Alfa-Bank v. Yakovlev (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 189, 215–216 (internal
citations and quotations omitted). “A foreign money judgment need not be recognized if the
cause of action on which it is based is repugnant to the public policy of this
state. The standard is not simply that the law is contrary to our public
policy, but instead that the judgment is so offensive to our public policy as
to be prejudicial to recognized standards of morality and to the general
interests of the citizens.” Java Oil Ltd. v. Sullivan (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th
1178, 1189 (internal citations and quotations omitted).
 
Here, Defendant failed to submit competent admissible
evidence to provide a triable issue of material fact as to the affirmative
defenses that are relevant to establish a defense in this action. No competent
evidence was provided to show that the Singapore judgment was based on a
fundamentally unfair judicial process. No competent evidence was submitted to
show that the judgment was so offensive to public policy that it was
prejudicial to Defendant.
 
            Therefore, for the foregoing
reasons, Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Judgment is granted. While the
alternative motion for summary adjudication is now moot, the Court notes that
affirmative defenses 2 to 5, 8, 10, 11, and 17 are not recognized affirmative
defenses in the context of this litigation.
 
            Plaintiff is ordered to give notice
of this ruling.
 