  Case Number:  22STCV38373    Hearing Date:   August 12, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
NICHOLAS SABBAGH,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
CULVER 12 LLC, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCV38373
  Hearing Date: August 12, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
cross-defendants’ motion for summary
  judgment  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On December 8, 2022, Plaintiff
Nicholas Sabbagh (Sabbagh) filed this action against Defendant Culver 12 LLC
(Culver), alleging causes of action for (1) unlawful retention of security
deposit, (2) breach of lease, (3) negligence, and (4) conversion. Sabbagh
alleges that he rented a unit from Culver and paid a $15,000 security deposit
which was supposed to be returned upon termination of the tenancy. Sabbagh
alleges that Culver improperly applied expenses against the deposit, resulting
in nothing being returned to Sabbagh. Sabbagh alleges that this amounts to
theft of the security deposit.           
            On January 5, 2023, Culver filed a
cross-complaint against Sabbagh, Sachin Tejas Bettadapur, Alexander Amir
Rassouli, and Ashan Naik (collectively, the Tenants), alleging breach of lease.
The Tenants resided in the same unit. Culver alleges that the Tenants caused
extensive damages to the unit which required more than $18,000 to repair.
Culver therefore applied the full security deposit of $15,000 towards the
repair. The Tenants also allegedly kept a dog in violation of the no-pet
provision in the lease. Culver sues for the damage caused to the premises by the
Tenants and their dog.  
            On March 15, 2023, Bettadapur,
Rassouli, and Naik filed their own cross-complaint against Culver, which is
substantively identical to Sabbagh’s complaint.
            On May 16, 2024, the Tenants filed
the instant motion for summary judgment against Culver’s cross-complaint.
Culver filed its opposition on July 26, 2024. The Tenants filed their reply on
August 5, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
The function of
a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to
whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or
claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c)
“requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary
judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits
or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact
within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
As to each claim
as framed by the complaint, the plaintiff moving for summary judgment must
satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to establish each
element of the cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) Once
the plaintiff has met that burden, the burden shifts to the defendant to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of
action or a defense thereto. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.) Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
            Culver’s objections are overruled. 
DISCUSSION
I.
Right to Inspection 
“Within a reasonable time after
notification of either party’s intention to terminate the tenancy, or before
the end of the lease term, the landlord shall notify the tenant in writing of
the tenant’s option to request an initial inspection and of the tenant’s right
to be present at the inspection.” (Civ. Code, § 1950.5(f)(1).)  
Here, the Tenants provided notice in June
2022 that they would not be renewing the lease. (UF 6.) The Tenants argue that Culver
did not provide any notice afterwards of a right to inspection prior to the
Tenants vacating the unit. (UF 8.) As a result, the Tenants argue they did not
have the opportunity to cure defects to avoid deductions from the security
deposit. 
The Tenants move for summary judgment of
Culver’s cross-complaint on the grounds that a landlord who fails to follow the
statutory requirements cannot deduct any portion of the security deposit.  
II.
Notice in the Lease
However, as the Court found in ruling on the
Tenants’ prior motion for summary adjudication, there is a triable issue over
Culver’s compliance with subdivision (f). (May 1, 2024 Order re MSA 5:11-6:2.)
Specifically, Section 25(C) of the lease provides that “[a]fter giving or
receiving notice of termination of a tenancy . . . Tenant has the right to
request that an inspection of the Premises take place prior to termination of
the lease.” (See Plntf.’s Ex. 1.) A reasonable trier of fact may find that this
constitutes the written notice required by subdivision (f). The statute
provides that the notice must be provided either “[w]ithin a reasonable time
after notification of either party’s intention to terminate the tenancy, or
before the end of the lease term.” (Civ. Code, § 1950.5(f)(1).) The notice in
the lease was provided before the end of the lease term.   
III.
Legislative History
The Tenants argue that a notice in the
lease is not compliant because subdivision (f) requires a separate notice
issued at the end of a tenancy, not at the beginning. The Tenants claim that
the legislative history of subdivision (f) reveals the Legislature’s intent to
require a notice at the end of a tenancy. 
            As an initial matter, “resort to
legislative history is appropriate only where statutory language is ambiguous.”
(Kaufman & Broad Communities, Inc. v. Performance Plastering, Inc.
(2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 26, 29.) “If there is no ambiguity in the language, we
presume the Legislature meant what it said, and the plain meaning of the
statute governs.” (Ibid.) Here, as the Tenants themselves acknowledge, the
statute “unambiguously requires landlords to notify tenants in writing
of their right to an initial inspection at a specific time: either ‘within a
reasonable time after notification of either party’s intention to terminate the
tenancy’ for month-to-month agreements, ‘or before the end of the lease term’
for fixed term leases.” (Mtn. 6:6-10.) The statute plainly does not require the
notice to be issued at the end of a tenancy. The phrase “before the end
of the lease term” is unambiguous. Had the Legislature intended to require the
inspection notice to be issued “at the end of the lease term,” it would
have written that instead.  
            In
any event, the Tenants’ interpretation is unsupported by legal authority, and
their conclusion does not follow from the legislative history. The Tenants
point out that subdivision (f) was designed to ensure that tenants in both
month-to-month tenancies and fixed-term tenancies are required to be notified
of their right to an inspection. However, this reveals nothing about an intent
to require the inspection notice to be issued at the end of a tenancy. The
statute’s plain language already ensures that both types of tenants receive the
notice of inspection before their tenancy ends. The legislative history reveals
nothing about an additional requirement for the notice to be issued at the end
of the tenancy. 
The Tenants argue that a tenant is
unlikely to notice or remember a specific provision in the lease at the
beginning of their tenancy. Instead, according to the Tenants, there must be a separate
notice at the end of a tenancy to properly remind the tenant of their right to
an inspection. Nothing in the legislative history reflects a concern over the
ability of tenants to recall notices issued early in a tenancy, and the Tenants
cite no authority suggesting that the Legislature intended to impose an
additional requirement for inspection notices to be issued at the end of a
tenancy. Instead, the Legislature determined that notice is sufficient if it is
given “[w]ithin a reasonable time after notification of either party’s
intention to terminate the tenancy, or before the end of the lease term.” (See Civ.
Code, § 1950.5(f).) The Legislature imposed no other requirement, and the Court
will not write one into the statute on its behalf. (See California
Correctional Peace Officers' Assn. v. State of California (2010) 188
Cal.App.4th 646, 656 [the role of courts is “to interpret the law, not insert
what the Legislature has omitted”].) 
Furthermore, “one who signs an instrument
which on its face is a contract is deemed to assent to all its terms.” (Marin
Storage & Trucking, Inc. v. Benco Contracting & Engineering, Inc.
(2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 1042, 1049.) The Tenants fail to explain why a tenant
signing a lease should not be charged with awareness of all its terms,
including notice of their right to an inspection. No legal authority suggests
that tenants may selectively disregard terms in a lease based on the passage of
time or their own recollection.   
The Tenants argue that landlords cannot be
allowed “to circumvent their notice obligations by including generic language
in leases.” Whether the notice in a given lease is too generic or vague to
satisfy subdivision (f) is a triable issue subject to the facts of the
particular case. A landlord could just as easily issue a separate notice that
is vague and fails to properly inform the tenant of his right to inspect. The
possibility that the lease in a given case may be vague or difficult to read
does not justify categorically precluding lease terms from satisfying
subdivision (f).   
Lastly, even when using legislative
history to determine the meaning of a statute, courts must “avoid an
interpretation that would lead to absurd consequences.” (In re M.A.
(2022) 83 Cal.App.5th 143, 149.) The Tenants’ interpretation would mean that a
landlord who receives a notice of termination must issue the inspection notice
promptly enough so that it is “within a reasonable time after notification of
either party’s intention to terminate the tenancy,” but also delay the notice
until it is sufficiently “at the end of the tenancy.” There is no indication
that the Legislature intended to impose this dual, contradictory requirement on
landlords.
IV.
Surplusage
The Tenants argue that portions of
subdivision (f) would be rendered surplusage under Culver’s interpretation.
Specifically, the Tenants argue that if the inspection notice could be provided
at any time “before the end of the lease term,” there would be no need to
separately require notice “within a reasonable time after notification of
either party’s intention to terminate the tenancy.” According to the Tenants,
“[e]very fixed-term lease would necessarily include a period ‘before the end of
the lease term,’ making the reference to notice after an intent to terminate
wholly superfluous.” (Mtn. 10:20-23.)  
            However, the Tenants cite no
authority to support this interpretation. Moreover, as the Tenants themselves
acknowledge, the two phrases in subdivision (f) address two different types of
tenancies, month-to-month and fixed-term. Even if “[e]very fixed-term
lease would necessarily include a period ‘before the end of the lease term,’”
landlords in month-to-month tenancies would still have to provide notice
of inspection “within a reasonable time after notification of either party’s
intention to terminate the tenancy.” Therefore, both phrases have meaning even
if both do not apply in every circumstance. Hence the Legislature’s use of the
disjunctive “or” to denote two different possibilities.  
V.
Landlord’s Right to Recover Damages 
            Separately, “the mere fact that the
landlord has lost the right to take advantage of the summary deduct-and-retain
procedure of section 1950.5, subdivision (f)[1],
does not lead to the conclusion that he has lost all right to claim
damages for unpaid rent, repair, and cleaning.” (Granberry v. Islay
Investments (1995) 9 Cal.4th 738, 745.) Instead, “a landlord who has failed
in good faith to take advantage of the summary nonjudicial deduct-and-retain
procedure allowed under section 1950.5, subdivision (f), may recover damages
for unpaid rent, repairs and cleaning (§ 1950.5, subd. (e)) in a subsequent
judicial proceeding provided that he proves by a preponderance of the evidence
that he has suffered such damages and that the amount claimed is reasonable.” (Id.
at pp. 749-50.) 
Although it addressed a different
subdivision, Granberry suggests that a landlord’s failure to follow the
statutory requirements does not automatically bar all possibility of recovery
for damages to the premises. Thus, Culver’s cross-complaint for damages to the
unit cannot be dismissed solely on the ground that Culver failed to abide by subdivision
(f). Instead, as held in Granberry, a landlord may still “recover
damages for unpaid rent, repairs and cleaning,” given proof that the landlord
acted “in good faith,” “that he has suffered damages,” and “that the amount
claimed is reasonable.” (Granberry, supra, 9 Cal.4th at pp. 749-50.)
These are all factual matters.    
            In sum, there is a triable issue
over whether Culver complied with Civil Code section 1950.5(f). Additionally, a
violation of the statute does not necessarily preclude all recovery in the
cross-complaint. Thus, summary judgment is unwarranted.  
CONCLUSION
            The motion for summary judgment or
adjudication filed by Cross-Defendants Nicholas Sabbagh, Sachin Tejas
Bettadapur, Alexander Amir Rassouli, and Ashan Naik is DENIED. 
 


