  Case Number:  19SMCV00603    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Nelson v. Cassileth
, et al.
CASE NO.:                19SMCV00603
MOTION:                  Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication
HEARING DATE:   4/4/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
            A party may move for summary
judgment in any action or proceeding if it is contended the action has no merit
or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding. (CCP, § 437c(a).) “The
purpose of the law of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to
cut through the parties' pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) 
 
“A party may move for summary adjudication as
to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative
defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if the
party contends that the cause of action has no merit, that there is no
affirmative defense to the cause of action, that there is no merit to an
affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that there is no merit to a
claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that
one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or
plaintiffs.” (CCP, § 437c(f)(1).) If a party seeks summary
adjudication as an alternative to a request for summary judgment, the request
must be clearly made in the notice of the motion. (Gonzales v. Superior
Court (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1542, 1544.)  “[A] party may move for
summary adjudication of a legal issue or a claim for damages other than
punitive damages that does not completely dispose of a cause of action,
affirmative defense, or issue of duty pursuant to” subdivision (t).
(CCP, § 437c(t).) 
 
            To
prevail, the evidence submitted must show there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law. (CCP, § 437c(c).) The motion cannot succeed unless the
evidence leaves no room for conflicting inferences as to material facts; the
court has no power to weigh one inference against another or against other
evidence. (Murillo v. Rite Stuff Food Inc. (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th
833, 841.) In determining whether the facts give rise to a triable issue of
material fact, “[a]ll doubts as to whether any material, triable, issues of
fact exist are to be resolved in favor of the party opposing summary judgment…”
(Gold v. Weissman (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1195, 1198-99.) “In other
words, the facts alleged in the evidence of the party opposing summary judgment
and the reasonable inferences there from must be accepted as true.” (Jackson
v. County of Los Angeles (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 171, 179.) However, if
adjudication is otherwise proper the motion “may not be denied on grounds of
credibility,” except when a material fact is the witness’s state of
mind and “that fact is sought to be established solely by the [witness’s]
affirmation thereof.” (CCP, § 437c(e).) 
 
            Once
the moving party has met their burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party
“to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that
cause of action or a defense thereto.” (CCP § 437c(p)(1).) “[T]here is no obligation on the opposing party... to establish
anything by affidavit unless and until the moving party has by affidavit stated
facts establishing every element... necessary to sustain a judgment in his
favor.” (Consumer Cause, Inc. v. SmileCare (2001) 91
Cal.App.4th 454, 468.) 
 
“The pleadings play a key role in a summary
judgment motion. The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment
is to delimit the scope of the issues and to frame the outer measure
of materiality in a summary judgment proceeding.” (Hutton v. Fidelity
National Title Co. (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 486, 493, quotations
and citations omitted.) “Accordingly, the burden of a defendant moving for
summary judgment only requires that he or she negate plaintiff's theories of
liability as alleged in the complaint; that is, a moving party need
not refute liability on some theoretical possibility not included in the
pleadings.” (Ibid.) 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
Plaintiff’s objections are SUSTAINED as to no. 3-4
(hearsay) and OVERRULED as to the remaining objections.
 
Defendant’s objections are SUSTAINED as to the
declaration of Gail Lebovic. As to the Lebovic declaration, Defendant argues
that Dr. Lebovic is not a qualified expert to give an opinion on Plaintiff’s plastic
surgeon and post-operative care. (See Sargon Enterprises, Inc. v. University
of Southern California (2012) 55 Cal.4th 747.) Defendant does not explain
why an oncoplastic surgeon would not have sufficient expertise to opine on
plastic surgery. To the contrary, Dr. Lebovic has sufficient education,
training and experience on the subject of breast augmentation surgery and
related care, which is the subject procedure of this action. Dr. Lebovic’s CV
shows she earned a medical degree from GWU, had a surgical residency at Stanford,
had a clinical fellowship at “Plastic Surgery Center for Reconstructive &
Aesthetic Surgery of the Breast,” and had a research fellow internship
regarding breast cancer. (Supp. Stirrup Decl., Ex. A [Written Designation of
Expert Witnesses, attached C.V. and Proof of Service].) Dr. Lebovic has
been a licensed surgeon in California and a board certified oncoplastic surgeon
since 1994. (Id.) Defendant
also concedes that Dr. Lebovic practiced surgery for at least 13 years from
1994 to 2007, and since 2007,
Dr. Lebovic has served as the founder and director of an oncoplastic surgery
professional organization which provides post-graduate training for “surgeons'
skills in the oncologic and reconstructive aspects of breast surgery.” (Lebovic
Decl., ¶ 2.) Defendant focuses on the fact that Dr. Lebovic is an oncoplastic
surgeon, as if this is a complete separate field from plastic surgery. Defendant
does not explain how oncoplastic surgery is so unrelated to plastic surgery
generally, or breast augmentation specifically, that Dr. Lebovic would not be
qualified to testify as to the standard of care for breast augmentation. Based
on the record, expertise in oncoplastic surgery would necessarily include
expertise in breast removal and reconstruction for breast cancer patients. If
anything, an oncoplastic surgeon would likely have to have greater skill
and expertise compared to a general plastic surgeon. Thus, Dr. Lebovic
apparently does have knowledge, skill, experience, and training on the subject
of plastic surgery, especially where Plaintiff’s post-operative use of
immunosuppressants (Methotrexate) may be an important factor to the harm here. 
 
That said, Dr. Lebovic’s declaration lacks foundation,
and does not provide a sufficient conclusion to a degree of medical
probability. “[E]ven when the witness qualifies as an
expert, he or she does not possess a carte blanche to express any opinion
within the area of expertise. For example, an expert’s opinion based on
assumptions of fact without evidentiary support or on speculative or conjectural
factors, has no evidentiary value and may be excluded from evidence.” (Jennings
v. Palomar Pomerado Health Systems, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 1108, 1117,
citations omitted.) “Regarding causation, the plaintiff must offer an expert
opinion that contains a reasoned explanation illuminating why the facts have
convinced the expert, and therefore should convince the jury, that it is more probable
than not the negligent act was a cause-in-fact of the plaintiff’s injury.”  (Sanchez
v. Kern Emergency Medical Transportation Corp. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 146,
155, citations and quotations omitted, emphasis added.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff failed to
submit Dr. Lebovic’s CV as well as certain records Dr. Lebovic relied on to
form her opinion. (Garibay v. Hemmat, (2008) 161 Cal. App. 4th 735, 742 [medical
records and the operative note relied upon by an expert were not in evidence,
and the expert’s declaration and conclusion therefore had “no evidentiary
basis”].) While Plaintiff supplemented the
record by providing Dr. Lebovic’s missing CV following the reply, Plaintiff did
not provide the other missing records, including records from CVS Pharmacy (Lebovic
Decl., ¶ 32), Dr. Mahal, M.D. (¶¶ 14, 22), California Rheumatology (¶¶ 11-13,
18), Saint Agnes Medical Center (¶ 9), Operative Report from Medical Arts
Ambulatory Surgery Center (¶¶ 10, 64), and the report from Thomas Mitts, M.D.
(¶ 10). Dr. Lebovic’s opinions at the specified paragraphs are expressly
derived from these records. This undermines Dr. Lebovic’s ultimate opinions,
including her opinion that Dr. Min’s course of treatment breached the standard
of care by failing to appropriately consider Plaintiff’s rheumatoid arthritis
and other medical history which posed a further increased risk of infection. 
Furthermore, as discussed below, Dr. Lebovic does not conclude that Dr.
Min’s breaches of the standard of care caused Plaintiff’s infection,
hospitalization and breast removal to a medical degree of certainty. 
 
Analysis
 
Defendant moves for summary
judgment on Plaintiff’s only cause of action for medical negligence. Defendant
contends that there are no triable issues of material fact as to whether Defendant
met the standard of care for a plastic surgeon in her care and treatment of
Plaintiff. Defendant claims that, to a degree of medical probability, she did
not cause or contribute to any of Plaintiff’s claimed injuries. Further,
Plaintiff provided her informed consent prior to the surgery. Additionally,
Defendant claims that the cause is barred by the statute of limitations because
Plaintiff filed this action more than one year after having a suspicion of
wrongdoing.
 
The elements of medical malpractice
are: “(1) the duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and
diligence as other members of his profession commonly possess and exercise; (2)
a breach of that duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent
conduct and the resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from
the professional's negligence.”  (Simmons
v. West Covina Medical Clinic (1989) 212 Cal. App. 3d 696, 701-02 citations
omitted.)  “Both the standard of care and
defendants’ breach must normally be established by expert testimony in a
medical malpractice case.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal. App. 4th 463, 467.) 
 
Proof of causation in a medical
malpractice action must also be proven within a reasonable medical probability,
based on competent expert testimony. (Jennings v. Palomar Pomerado Health
Systems, Inc. (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1108, 1118.) “When a defendant moves
for summary judgment and supports his motion with expert declarations that his
conduct fell within the community standard of care, he is entitled to summary
judgment unless the plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.” (Munro
v. Regents of University of California (1989) 215 Cal. App. 3d 977, 984-985,
citations omitted.) An expert declaration, if uncontradicted, is conclusive
proof as to the prevailing standard of care and the propriety of the particular
conduct of the health care provider. (Starr v. Mooslin (1971) 14 Cal.
App. 3d 988, 999.)
 
Plaintiff alleges “Defendants, and
each of them, failed to use reasonable care and/or skill common to medical
practitioners in the community and further, failed to use reasonable care in
the diagnosis and treatment of said condition, illness, infection and injury,
in that they did not provide her with proper treatment or properly refer her
for treatment, resulting in injury, multiple breast surgeries, and damage to
Plaintiff.” (Compl., at p. 4.) 
 
Defendant provides undisputed
evidence that on February 16, 2021, Plaintiff underwent a capsulectomy,
mastopexy, silicone nodules excision and nerve block with replacement silicone
breast implants, performed by Dr. Min. (UMF 2.) This procedure allegedly resulted
in her contracting an infection with painful swelling, redness and oozing.
(Id.) It is undisputed that Plaintiff claims the diagnosis of the infection was
improperly addressed and delayed, which resulted in her having to undergo
additional surgeries to remove her right breast implant and eventually replace the
implant. (Id.) 
 
Defendant presents evidence disputing
the alleged breach of the standard of care and causation. Dr. Dubrow notes that
plaintiff appears to have developed issues with segmental contracture and
malpositioning of the right breast implant. (Dubrow Decl., ¶ 53.) Segmental
contracture and malpositioning are known risks and complications of breast
augmentation. (Id.) Dr. Dubrow also opines that post-operative infection is
itself a known risk and complication of breast implant procedures. (Id., ¶53.) It
is undisputed that these risks were explained to Plaintiff. Dr. Dubrow also
notes that plaintiff has a high risk of sustaining postoperative complications,
such as contracture and malpositioning of the breast, due to her history of
rheumatoid arthritis and immunosuppressant medication taken as a result, in
addition to the patient’s prior extensive history of multiple breast
augmentations. (Id.) However, because Plaintiff’s infection was promptly
recognized and appropriately treated by Dr. Min, Dr. Dubrow concludes that there
was no other medically reasonable action that should have been undertaken at
any time that would have changed the ultimate outcome, i.e. development of
post-operative infection necessitating implant removal and replacement. (Id.)
These issues occurred in the absence of any breach of the standard of care
breach. (Id. ¶50.) Dr. Dubrow has opined that, to a reasonable degree of
medical probability, Dr. Min did not do or fail to do something that caused or
contributed to Plaintiff’s claimed injuries. (Id. at ¶54.)
 
With this showing, Defendant meets
her initial burden of production. Plaintiff therefore needs to present an
expert declaration controverting Defendant’s evidence that she was not the
proximate cause of Plaintiff’s injuries. As noted above, Plaintiff has failed
to do so, and therefore cannot successfully oppose the motion for summary judgment
on the merits. 
Even if the Court were to consider the merits of Dr.
Lebovic’s opinion, the Court would find it insufficient to create a dispute of
fact as to causation. Dr. Lebovic’s declaration fails to state on certain terms
that any of Defendant’s purported breaches of the duty of care caused
Plaintiff’s injuries to a degree of medical probability. (See Lebovic
Decl., ¶¶ 65-78.)  Dr. Lebovic explains
that bilateral breast implant removal, capsulectomies and breast reconstruction
with local tissue rearrangement “should have been discussed, recommended and
performed as the procedure of choice.” (Id., ¶ 65.) Dr. Min fell below the
standard of care by failing to discuss and advise Plaintiff of this proper
surgical option. (Id.) Further, Dr. Min should have explained that silicone
implants were not appropriate for Plaintiff because of rheumatoid arthritis,
Plaintiff’s history of failed breast surgeries and the potential for infection.
(¶¶ 66-67) Further, Dr. Min should have disclosed the risks associated with the
implantation of AlloDerm, which has not been studied in immune-compromised
patients. (Id.) Dr. Lebovic opines that the "General Surgical Risks"
was inadequate to fully advise Plaintiff of the actual risks of the procedures.
(¶ 68.) Dr. Lebovic concludes that, considering her history, Plaintiff’s risk
of infection was “greater” than those posed generally by a routine augmentation
procedure, and that the risks were “increased” by Dr. Min’s choice of silicone
implants. (¶ 69.) The relatively large implants resulted in “greater tension”
on the breast tissue and surgical incisions. (Id.) The silicone implants
exposed Plaintiff to “continued risk for long term complications including…
increased difficult in diagnosis of breast cancer, sustained and increased
autoimmune disease,
capsular contracture, implant rupture with extravasation of silicone gel, etc.”
(Id.) Due to the displacement of the right implant, Plaintiff “will also
require at least one additional surgery to fix this problem in the short term.”
(Id.) 
 
Dr. Lebovic does not say that the implant material or
failure to advise was more likely than not the cause of Plaintiff’s subsequent
infection, hospitalization and breast removal to a reasonable degree of medical
probability. Critically, Dr. Lebovic only vaguely refers to increased risks.
Dr. Lebovic does not establish to what extent this failure increased
Plaintiff’s risk of infection. Without this evidence, Plaintiff cannot
establish that the vague “increased” risk caused Plaintiff’s harm. Dr.
Lebovic also does not state that an alternative surgical choice or an
explanation of such options would have eliminated Plaintiff’s risk of
infection. Thus, the evidence is undisputed that these “risks” persisted either
way. Further, Plaintiff does not
establish that she would have done something different if these risks were
explained to her. Thus, Plaintiff has not demonstrated sufficient causation
between Dr. Min’s failure to inform of alternative surgical choices and Plaintiff’s
subsequent infection, hospitalization and breast removal.  
 
Plaintiff also argues that Dr. Min was dismissive of symptoms
that warranted further scrutiny. Dr. Lebovic explains that Dr. Min
ignored early signs of infection and that this fell below the standard of care.
(Lebovic Decl., ¶¶ 70-78.)  Plaintiff
first began showing signs of post-operative infection on March 4, 2021, where
both Plaintiff and Dr. Min noted swelling in the right breast. Dr. Min mistook
this as swelling from overuse of the right arm, but this was likely the first
indication of a fluid collection which would be infected. (¶ 70.) Dr. Min fell
below the standard of care by failing to scrutinize this symptom, especially
since Plaintiff was to resume methotrexate in a week. (Id.) This symptom “warranted”
an in-person examination including an ultrasound at this juncture. (Id.) Later,
on March 24, 2021, Defendant dismissed an acute onset pain in the left breast
as a rheumatoid arthritis flareup. (Id. ¶ 71.) At this juncture, Dr. Lebovic
opined that further clinical investigation was warranted, including a
laboratory assessment. (Id.) 
 
Additionally, Plaintiff received a
Kenalog injection which “further compounded” and “worsened” the situation due
to the immunosuppressive effects of steroids. (Lebovic Decl., ¶ 72.) Dr. Min
failed to conduct an examination or blood work prior to the injection, which
would have alerted the clinical team to the brewing infection. (Id.) Dr.
Lebovic states that “[d]etection and appropriate treatment of the infection at
an earlier date, with clinical examination, ultrasound and laboratory
assessment, may have helped to avert admission to the hospital and potentially
even the need for emergent removal of the implant and AlloDerm material.” (Id.,
emphasis added.) Further, “[c]ontinual use of the same antibiotic combination
of augmentin/Bactrim proved to be ineffective on the particular strain of
bacteria ultimately cultured from the breast area. Had the fluid been sampled
and cultured under ultrasound guidance weeks prior to implant removal,
appropriate antibiotic therapy may have been instrumental in changing
the course of this patient's treatment. As such, Dr. Min's breach of the
standard of care was a direct cause of Ms. Nelson's injuries and damages. As
a further breach of Dr. Min's standard of care, it is my opinion with medical
certainty that she will need future surgeries. Furthermore, because of the
breach of the standard of care, injuries and damages were caused to Ms.
Nelson.” (Id., emphasis added.) 
 
Dr. Lebovic also states that Dr.
Min breached the standard of care during the April 5, 2021, in person visit
when Dr. Min detected potential fluid collection around the right breast
implant, but misinterpreted the collection as a capsule formation and only
ordered an ultrasound on the left breast. (Id., ¶ 73.) “Because the left breast
was imaged, and not the right breast, the patient experienced the cascade of
events that followed from the delay in detecting the brewing infection,
including the emergent event on May 5, 2021.” (Id.) Dr. Lebovic provides a
conclusion that this “was a cause” of Plaintiff’s injuries, but not to any
specific degree of certainty. (Id.) 
 
Moreover, the prescription and
administration of steroids on April 8, 2021, “further increased the risk of an
infection” and “would have been avoided if the infection was detected and
treated at an earlier date, such as on April 5, 2021.” (Id., ¶ 74.) According
to Dr. Lebovic, failing to catch this infection in a timely manner fell below
the standard of care. (Id.) Plaintiff’s report on April 27, 2021, of an oozing
wound should have raised even further clinical concern. Lebovic explains that
although scabbing and slow healing in this area is common, because of the
presence of “other clinical signs of a potential fluid collection, greater
scrutiny was warranted.” (Id., ¶ 75.) Lebovic concludes that this failure to
scrutinize Plaintiff’s report of oozing, compounded by the patient's immunosuppressive
state, “resulted in the unfortunate cascade of clinical events” Plaintiff went
through. (Id.)  Dr. Lebovic concludes that the "delay in clinical
evaluation by omission of the right breast ultrasound as well as omission of
timely and clinical laboratory assessment when Ms. Nelson presented with
clinical signs suspicious for infection, led to a delay in appropriate
treatment of the post procedure infection.” (¶ 78.)
 
Based on the above language, Dr.
Lebovic does not conclude to a medical degree of certainty that Plaintiff’s infection,
hospitalization and breast removal would have been avoided if Dr. Min detected
the infection earlier, either by preventing the use of immunosuppressants or causing
the infection to be treated earlier. At best, Dr. Lebovic suggests that the
various breaches were a “direct cause” to her injuries and that different
actions “may” have been helpful, but does not aver this to a reasonable degree
of medical probability. The only conclusion that Dr. Lebovic makes to that degree
is that she is certain that Plaintiff “will need” future, unspecified surgeries.
Of course, the certainty of future surgeries would not show causation between
Dr. Min’s delay in detecting the infection and any of Plaintiff’s injuries.  Therefore, Plaintiff fails to meet their
burden to defeat the motion.
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for
summary judgment is GRANTED.