 Case Number:  23SMCV00376    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Leet, et
al., v. 1330 Gardner Property LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV00376
MOTION:                  Motion
to be Relieved
HEARING DATE:   4/4/2024

 
Legal
Standard
 
The
court may order that an attorney be changed or substituted at any time before
or after judgment or final determination upon request by either client or
attorney and after notice from one to the other. (CCP §
284(2).) The attorney seeking to withdraw must take “reasonable steps to
avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the rights of the client, including
giving due notice to the client, allowing time for employment of other
counsel.” (Cal. Rules of Prof. Conduct, 3-700(A)(2). See, e.g., Vann v.
Shilleh (1975) [holding withdrawal prejudicial where attorney
withdraw from the representation of defendant on the Friday before trial began
the following Monday].) “The determination whether to grant or deny a motion to
withdraw as counsel lies within the sound discretion of the trial court.” (Manfredi & Levine v. Superior Court
(1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1133.)  
 
An
application to be relieved as counsel must be made on Judicial Counsel Form
MC-051 (Notice of Motion and Motion), MC-052 (Declaration), and MC-053
(Proposed Order). (CRC 3.1362(a), (c), (e).) The
requisite forms must be served “on the client and on all parties that have
appeared in the case.” (CRC, 3.1362(d).)
When a client is served by mail, the attorney’s declaration must indicate that
the client’s address was confirmed within the last 30 days and how it was
confirmed. (Id.) If the attorney is
unable to confirm the client’s current address, the declaration must state the
reasonable efforts made within the last 30 days to obtain the client’s current
address. (Id.) 
 
Additionally,
the declaration “must state in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney client relationship why” a motion is brought
instead of filing a substitution of attorney. (CRC, 3.1362(c).)
 
Analysis
 
Payton
Employment Law, PC, Marissa Leila Simmons, Esq., Johnny D. Griggs, Esq. and
Rayne Brown, Esq. move to be relieved as counsel of record for Plaintiffs Scott
A. Leet and Kendall Harke. Counsel provides all the mandatory forms. Counsel
states that an irreparable breakdown of the attorney-client relationship has
occurred. The declaration notes the hearings that are on calendar. Further, the
client will not be prejudiced by the withdrawal as there are no dispositive
motions pending, and trial is not set until January 2025. 
 
Counsel has
been unable to serve their clients by mail at the client’s last known address, as
they have not been able to confirm their last known address. Counsel explains
that Plaintiffs have lived in an RV since June 2023, and confirmed that they
were still living in an RV in the state of Washington in February 2024. Counsel
and Plaintiffs have always communicated via email. Counsel served Plaintiffs
via email, and at their last known physical address, 546 Mills Lane, Pipe
Creek, Texas, 78063-5191. The Court agrees that under such circumstances, Counsel
provided reasonable service of this motion at their clients’ last known address
and via email.
 
Accordingly,
the motion is tentatively GRANTED. The order is effective upon the filing of
the proof of service of the order on the clients. Until then, counsel remains
counsel of record.