 Case Number:  23SMCV02323    Hearing Date:   April 4, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Mohr, et al., v.
Nubu22 LLC, et al.
CASE NO.:                23SMCV02323
MOTION:                  Demurrer
to the Complaint; Motions to Strike
HEARING DATE:   4/4/23
 
Legal
Standard
 
            A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.
(Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (CCP §§
430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate
facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim
against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie
(1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading,
or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen
(1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732, internal citations omitted.)
 
            A
special demurrer for uncertainty is disfavored and will only be sustained where
the pleading is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot
reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or
claims are directed against him/her. (CCP § 430.10(f); Khoury v. Maly’s
of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) Moreover, even if
the pleading is somewhat vague, “ambiguities can be clarified under modern
discovery procedures.” (Ibid.)

 
            Any party, within the time allowed
to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part thereof. (CCP § 435(b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and
upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any
pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court
rule, or an order of the court. (CCP §§ 436(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a
pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are
surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)
 
            “Liberality in permitting amendment
is the rule, if a fair opportunity to correct any defect has not been given.” (Angie
M. v. Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1227.) It is an abuse of
discretion for the court to deny leave to amend where there is any reasonable
possibility that plaintiff can state a good cause of action. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349.) The burden is on plaintiff to
show in what manner plaintiff can amend the complaint,
and how that amendment will change the legal effect of the
pleading. (Id.)
 
Analysis
 
Defendants Nubu22 LLC, Christian Yelich and Alicia Yelich demur to the
second, fourth, fifth, eighth, ninth, tenth and eleventh causes of action. The Nubu
Defendants also move to strike the punitive damages requests against them. In
addition, Defendant Tyler Development moves to strike the various requests for
punitive and treble damages against them. 
 
Plaintiffs do not oppose the demurrer to the eighth cause of action for negligent
infliction of emotional distress (NIED) or the eleventh cause of action for injunctive
relief. Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave as to the eighth
and eleventh causes of action. The Court will address the remaining issues
below.
 
COA 2 - Declaration
of Irrevocable License
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiffs’ claim for an irrevocable license
fails because Defendants are bona fide purchasers of the Nubu22 property, and
the settlement agreement between Plaintiffs and the prior owner of the Nubu22
property, Max Simon, regarding the Westerly Strip was unrecorded. Defendants do
not show that these facts would undermine the irrevocable license claim.
Defendants cite no authority which shows that the pled irrevocable license is
dependent on their knowledge of a recorded property right. 
 
“ ‘When a landowner allows someone else to use her land, the owner is
granting a license. [Citation.] A license may be created by express permission
or by acquiescence (that is, by ‘tacitly permit[ing] another to repeatedly do
acts upon the land’ ‘with full knowledge of the facts’ and without objecting).’
” (Gamerberg v. 3000 E. 11th St., LLC, (2020) 44 Cal. App. 5th 424, 429,
quoting Shoen v. Zacarias (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 1112, 1119.) “Unlike
covenants that run with the land, such as easements, a license is a personal right and confers no interest
in land: ‘[I]t merely makes lawful an act that otherwise would constitute a
trespass.’ ” (Id., quoting Richardson
v. Franc (2015) 233
Cal.App.4th 744, 751.) A “‘licensor generally can revoke a license at
any time without excuse or without consideration to the licensee.’ [Citations.]
Moreover, ‘a license, being a mere personal privilege, is never extended to the
heirs or assigns of the licensee. Indeed, any attempt by the licensee to assign
the license ordinarily destroys and terminates it.’ ” (Id.) 
 
“An otherwise revocable license becomes irrevocable
when the licensee, acting in reasonable reliance either on the licensor's
representations or on the terms of the license,
makes substantial expenditures of money or labor in the execution of the license, and the license
will continue ‘for so long a time as the nature of it calls for.’ ” (Richardson,
supra, 233 Cal.App.4th at 751.)“ ‘A license remains irrevocable for a
period sufficient to enable the licensee to capitalize on his or her
investment. He can continue to use it only as long as justice and equity
require its use.’ ” (Id. at 758.) “This principle is grounded upon ‘the doctrine of equitable
estoppel; the license, similar in its essentials of an easement, is declared to
be irrevocable to prevent the licensor from perpetrating a fraud upon the
licensee.’” (Gamerberg, supra, 44 Cal.App.5th at 430, citing Cooke v.
Ramponi (1952) 38 Cal.2d 282, 286; see Robinson v. Fair Employment &
Hous. Com (1992) 2 Cal.4th 226, 244 – 245 [To apply the doctrine of
estoppel, four conditions or elements must be satisfied: (1) the party to be
estopped must be apprised of the facts; (2) he must intend that his conduct
shall be acted upon, or must so act that the party asserting the estoppel had a
right to believe it was so intended; (3) the other party must be ignorant of
the true state of facts; and (4) he must rely upon the conduct to his injury].)
In such cases, “the licensor is said to be estopped from revoking the license,
and the license becomes the equivalent of an easement, commensurate in its
extent and duration with the right to be enjoyed”. (Gamerberg, supra, 44
Cal.App.5th at 430.) “[C]ourts may exercise their power to declare a license
irrevocable only if the expenditures in reliance on the license are
‘substantial,’ ‘considerable’ or ‘great,’ ” a requirement that ensures “courts
use their power to create irrevocable licenses sparingly.” (Shoen, supra,
33 Cal.App.5th at 1119-1120.) 
 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
and/or their predecessors knew that the Westerly Strip was included in the
legal description for Plaintiff’s Property. (Compl., ¶ 61.) Plaintiffs have
used and maintained the ficus and palm trees on the disputed strip from 1987
until Defendants recently cut them down. (Id., ¶ 62.) In reasonable reliance on
Defendants and their predecessors failure to object to Plaintiffs’ use of the
Westerly Strip, Plaintiffs openly expended substantial time and resources to
plant, maintain and improve the Westerly Strip. (Id., ¶63.) Plaintiffs contend
that their implied license to use the Westerly Strip became irrevocable “when
Defendants and/or their predecessors knowingly permitted Plaintiffs to use the
Westerly Strip and Plaintiffs, in reasonable reliance on the continuation of
the license, expended a substantial amount of time, resources, and money on
maintaining and improving the Westerly Strip with Defendants and/or their
predecessors’ knowledge.” (Id., ¶65.) These acts include “Plaintiffs planting trees,
landscaping, and providing maintenance and other improvements to the Westerly Strip
since 1987.” (Id.) Plaintiffs therefore request a judicial declaration “to
determine whether Plaintiffs have acquired an ‘irrevocable license’ under the
circumstances in order that Plaintiffs may ascertain their rights and duties in
connection with the Westerly Strip.” (Id., ¶ 67.)
 
Defendants claim that the unrecorded settlement agreement would be
invalid as to them. However, under the above caselaw, Plaintiffs do not
have to plead Defendants’ actual knowledge of the settlement agreement or some
other recorded real property interest. Therefore, the claim would not fail, even
if the Court assumes that Defendants are bona fide purchasers that had no
notice of the unrecorded settlement agreement between Plaintiffs and Max Simon.
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is OVERRULED as to this cause of action.
 
COA 4/5 - Trespass
to Timber/Trespass
 
Defendants argue that the trespass claims fail because the trees, and
thus the trespass, occurred on Nubu22’s property, not Plaintiffs’ property. Indeed,
Civil Code section 3346 provides a claim for “wrongful injuries to timber,
trees, or underwood upon the land of another.” (Emphasis added.) Civil
Code section 733 applies to a “person who cuts down or carries off any wood or underwood,
tree, or timber, or girdles or otherwise injures any tree or timber on the land
of another person.” (Emphasis added.) Defendants argue that under the
express allegations of the complaint (paragraph 9), the trees were located on Nubu22’s
property. Defendants also cite the photographs which they contend show that the
trees were located on the Nubu22 property. (See Compl., ¶ 35, Ex. J.) However,
the Complaint does not expressly state the trees were on Nubu22’s property. The
trees were “near the very rear of the Nubu22 one acre property.” (Compl.
¶ 29, emphasis added.) Further, the attached photographs do not necessarily show
that the trees were located on Nubu22’s property. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is OVERRULED as to this cause of action.
 
COA 9 - IIED
 
The elements for a cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress (IIED) are (1) extreme and outrageous conduct
by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering
severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) an actual and proximate causal
link between the tortious conduct and the emotional distress. (Hughes
v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050.) A defendant’s conduct is
“outrageous” when it is so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually
tolerated in a civilized community. (Id.) The defendant must either
intend his or her conduct to inflict injury or engaged in it with the
realization that injury will result. (Id.) Liability for intentional
infliction of emotional distress does not extend to mere insults, indignities,
threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other trivialities. (Id.)
 
“[I]t is not enough that the
defendant has acted with an intent which is tortious or even criminal, or that
he has intended to inflict emotional distress, or even that his conduct has
been characterized by ‘malice,’ or a degree of aggravation which would entitle
the plaintiff to punitive damages for another tort.” (Cochran v. Cochran
(1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 488, 496.) “Liability has been found only where the
conduct has been so outrageous in character, and so extreme in degree, as to go
beyond all possible bounds of decency, and to be regarded as atrocious, and
utterly intolerable in a civilized community.” (Id.) While there is no
bright-line as to what constitutes outrageous conduct and thus this involves a
case-by-case analysis, courts can determine whether conduct was sufficiently
outrageous at the demurrer stage. (Id. at 494.) 
 
That said, when reasonable persons
may differ, it is for the jury, subject to the control of the court, to
determine whether, in the particular case, the conduct has been sufficiently
extreme and outrageous to result in liability.¿(Alcorn v. Anbro Engineering,
Inc. (1970) 2 Cal.3d 493, 499.) For instance, “[b]ehavior may be considered
outrageous if a defendant (1) abuses a relation or position which gives him
power to damage the plaintiff’s interest; (2) knows the plaintiff is
susceptible to injuries through mental distress; or (3) acts intentionally or
unreasonably with the recognition that the acts are likely to result in illness
through mental distress.” (McDaniel v. Gile (1991) 230 Cal.App.3d 363,
372.) 
 
A plaintiff must allege with “great
specificity the acts which he or she believes are so extreme as to exceed all
bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized society.” (Vasquez v.
Franklin Management Real Estate Fund, Inc. (2013) 222 Cal.App.4th
819, 832.) 
 
Defendants assert that there are no
allegations establishing that they intended
to cause emotional distress, or engaged in conduct with the realization that
injury would result. However, the complaint does allege that Defendants engaged
in “outrageous conduct with reckless disregard of the probability that such
conduct would result in continuing damage and exposure to damage to the Mohrs’
personally and to the Mohr Property that would result in severe emotional
distress to Plaintiff.” (Id., ¶ 106.) The complaint further alleges that the Plaintiffs
suffered severe emotional distress as a result of the damage to their Property.
(Id., ¶ 107.)  
 
The complaint also provides specific facts supporting Defendants’ alleged
intent/reckless disregard. The complaint alleges that on May 29, 2020,
Defendants and multiple unknown individuals acting under their direct supervision
“willfully, knowingly, recklessly, maliciously and intentionally entered,
occupied, damaged, and made use of the Mohr Property without warning, notice,
or permission and while Plaintiffs’ were out of town, and without any good
faith belief that Defendants had a right to do so by proceeding to enter onto
the Mohr Property at or about the boundary with the NuB22 Property with the
express intent along with necessary tools and equipment and commenced to climb
onto the roof of Plaintiffs’ garage and cut down three  60' tall huge Ficus trees, even after having
been advised by Plaintiffs’ caretaker on site that they were trespassing.”
(Compl., ¶ 29.) “A few weeks later when Plaintiffs were out of town again,
Defendants returned and maliciously cut down the Plaintiffs’ remaining Palm
tree and removed all of the Plaintiffs’ ground cover in front of the Mohr
Property, leaving for the past three years only the three dead tree stumps and
dirt along the strip of land located at the westerly border of the Mohr
Property…”. (Id.) Further, “after cutting down the Mohr Ficus trees Defendants
installed a video camera on a tall pole pointed directly at the Mohr home.
Attached hereto as Exhibit “I” is a true and correct copy of a photograph
depicting the Defendant’s camera being installed with the sole intent of
harassing and causing the Mohrs’ distress.” (¶ 31.) Plaintiffs have suffered
the loss of use and enjoyment of their home due to Defendants intentional and
malicious action of cutting down Plaintiffs’ trees while trespassing onto the
Plaintiffs’ Property. (¶ 34.) 
 
The specific facts thus show that Defendants knew that they had no right
to enter onto the Plaintiffs’ property, but willfully cut the trees down
despite this knowledge. In light of these facts, a reasonable fact finder could
conclude that Defendants intended to harm Plaintiffs or disregarded the
probability of harming Plaintiffs. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is OVERRULED as to this cause of action. 
 
COA 10 - Breach
of the Recorded Agreement
 
Defendants argue that the terms of the recorded agreements are not
identified in the complaint. However, the complaint cites the specific recorded
agreements, and alleges the facts of Defendants’ breach.  Defendants allegedly breached the recorded
agreements cited in exhibits C-E of the complaint. (See Compl., ¶¶ 17-27.) By
the terms of these agreements, each of the signors agreed in writing to bind
the signor and all successive owners of their respective real properties,
including Defendants. (¶¶ 20-22.) The recorded agreements state in relevant
part:
 
GRANTOR, at its sole expense, shall construct
a roadway on the real property in conformity with the legal description
attached to Exhibit “1” as Exhibit “A”. The said roadway to be constructed shall
have a minimum of 20 feet at all points for purposed of ingress and egress and
in addition shall widen to approximately 40 feet at a point west of the
westerly property line as described in Exhibit “A".
 
At all times in the future, at its sole
expense, GRANTOR and its successors in interest, shall keep the paved
roadway easement after construction thereof free of structures, walls,
vehicles, planters, and debris, including but not limited to, all earthen
material.
 
The conditions set forth herein have been
incorporated into the Relocation of Easement agreement document and shall run
with the land. 
 
If legal action is necessary to enforce any
of the terms or conditions of this Agreement, the prevailing party shall be
entitled to reasonable attorney fees, costs and damages, if any.
 
(¶25, emphasis added.)

 
Since March 2020, Defendants’ development of the Nubu22 property has
violated the terms of the access easement. (¶ 26.) Specifically, Defendants’
plans provide for the construction of a fence, gate and package delivery area at
the westerly entrance to the Nubu22 Property, on the access easement, such that
access to the Plaintiffs’ Property will be unreasonably interfered with. (Id.) Defendants
have failed to provide the minimum unobstructed 20' wide access to and from the
Mohr Property, and that Defendants have interfered with and or blocked access
to and from the Mohr Property from the private streets, including but not
limited to blocking access to and or parking in the Easement/Fire Lane. (¶ 27.)
 
Accordingly, the demurrer is OVERRULED as to this cause of action. 
 
Punitive Damages
 
The Nubu Defendants and Tyler separately move to strike the request for
punitive damages and associated allegations. Defendants argue that the punitive
damages claim fails because there are no facts showing that Defendants acted
with malice, oppression or fraud. 
 
            “In order to survive a motion to
strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an
entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff. [Citations.]” (Clauson
v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) “The mere allegation
an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages. [Citation.] Not only must there be circumstances of
oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to
support such a claim. [Citation.]” (Grieves v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 159, 166, fn. omitted; but see Lackner
v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210-13 [an unintentional tort
supports an award of punitive damages where defendant was aware of the probable
dangerous consequences of his despicable conduct].) Section 3294 defines malice as conduct
“intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff,” or “despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” Despicable is a powerful term
used to describe circumstances that are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.” (Coll.
Hosp. v. Superior Ct. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 726.) The statute “plainly
indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, “malice” requires more
than a “willful and conscious” disregard of the plaintiffs' interests. The
additional component of “despicable conduct” must be found.” (Id.)
 
Plaintiffs plead several bases for punitive damages, including the
alleged intentional trespass, intentional infliction of emotional distress, nuisance
and negligence causes of action. (Compl., ¶¶ 88, 93, 108-109, 113 [re:
nuisance].) Plaintiffs establish that Defendants intended to harm
Plaintiffs by “willfully, knowingly, recklessly, maliciously and intentionally”
entering onto Plaintiffs’ property and cutting down Plaintiffs’ trees, without
permission or a good faith belief that Defendants had a right to do so, and
after being told that they were trespassing. (Compl., ¶ 26.) Further, after
cutting down the trees, Defendants installed a video camera on a tall pole
pointed directly at the Mohr home “with the sole intent of harassing and
causing the Mohrs’ distress.” (¶ 31.) These pled circumstances support a fair
inference that Defendants intended to harm Plaintiffs by entering on
Plaintiffs’ property without permission, while knowing that they were
trespassing, and then destroying Plaintiffs’ property. Therefore, the punitive
damages allegations are sufficient for pleading purposes.
 
Tyler does not show why the request for treble damages pursuant to the
trespass to timber cause of action fails. This request is not dependent on
section 3294 punitive damages. 
 
Accordingly, the motion to strikes are DENIED.
 
Defendants to file answers within 10 days.