 Case Number:  24SMCV02548    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


July 31, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24SMCV02548




MOTION


Motion to Strike




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Yang Professional Law Corporation and Rey S.
  Yang




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Beverly Spalding Court Homeowners’ Association,
  by and through its Court-Appointed Receiver Stephen Donell



 
MOTION
 
On May 29, 2024, Plaintiff Beverly Spalding Court Homeowners’
Association, by and through its Court-Appointed Receiver Stephen Donell
(“Plaintiff”) filed suit against Defendants Yang Professional Law Corporation
and Rey S. Yang (“Defendants”) alleging two causes of action for (1) legal
malpractice and (2) breach of fiduciary duty. 

 
Defendants now move to strike Plaintiff’s request for punitive
damages. Plaintiff opposes the motion and Defendants reply.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     MOTION
TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  Here, Defendants move to strike from the complaint,
references to and claims for punitive damages. 
  
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means
conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful
and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.  (2) “Oppression” means despicable conduct
that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of
that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means
an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)  
 
Moreover, “the imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation is
based upon its own fault.  It is not imposed vicariously by virtue of the
fault of others.”  (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity Co.
(1979) 88 Cal.App.3d 31, 36.)  “Corporations are legal entities which do
not have minds capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or
deceive.  An award of punitive damages against a corporation therefore
must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees.  But the law does
not impute every employee’s malice to the corporation.  Instead, the
punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate
leaders:  the officers, directors, or managing agents.”  (Cruz v.
Home Base (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 160, 167 [cleaned up].)  
 
Defendants argue that Plaintiffs have only alleged conduct that rises
to the level of negligence, but have not alleged malice, oppression or fraud.
 
The Complaint alleges:
 
3. Yang only first learned of horizontal cracks
in a cast iron drain pipe some three years into the representation. Prior to
that time, Yang’s defense of the HOA derived from their incorrect understanding
of California law and the governing documents relative to obligations to
maintain, repair and replace elements of the common areas, exclusive use common
area, and individual units. Yang erroneously asserted plaintiffs were
responsible to repair all of the damage to their units and that the HOA had no
responsibility to do so. 
 
4. Yang did not advise the HOA it would be
prudent and appropriate to conduct a comprehensive evaluation of the Building’s
condition and take immediate corrective action to prevent further water
intrusion and damage to the Building, even if that meant making a special
assessment or an emergency special assessment under California Civil Code §
5610. Nor did Yang advise the HOA of the consequences and ever growing exposure
it faced by allowing water to continue to flood two owner’s units and damage
common areas. Yang was, instead, content to allow the water intrusion to
continue, resulting in additional harm to the Building and the HOA responsible
for maintaining and repairing the Building. 
 
5. While the underlying lawsuit eventually
settled, the financial harm that Yang caused for the HOA was not the product of
a bad settlement, nor does the HOA herein allege that but for Yang’s negligence
it would have enjoyed a better settlement. Rather, due to Yang’s delay in
identifying the source of the water intrusion, the Building suffered additional
and increasing damage that could have been avoided had Yang advised the HOA –
as they should have – that it was responsible to repair or replace a cracked cast
iron drainage pipe as well as multiple other Building elements for which the
Association was responsible to maintain, repair and replace. Further, due to
Yang’s failure to do so, the plaintiffs sought the appointment of a receiver to
take control over the HOA and repair the damage to the Building. But for Yang’s
erroneous advice and dilatory conduct, the HOA would have been able to
rehabilitate the Building much sooner and at a much lower costs, and it would
not have been compelled to incur the costs associated with the receivership.
 
[…]
 
9. Defendant REY YANG (“R. Yang”) is an
individual licensed to practice law in the State of California. R. Yang
maintains his primary place of business within the State of California, County
of Los Angeles. R. Yang is an officer, director, and shareholder of Yang PLC.
R. Yang practices law with and through Yang PLC. R. Yang was actively involved
in providing legal services to the HOA.
 
[…]
 
17. Saks filed suit against the HOA and his
upstairs neighbor, Pink, on February 14, 2019, in a matter styled as Saks v.
Pink, Los Angeles County Superior Court Case No. 19SMCV00289 (the “Saks
Lawsuit”). 
 
18. In his suit, Saks alleged, among other
things: Water continues to leak since at least October 2018, directly into the
Unit through a rotted out drainage system which allows for the water drained
from the roof, the air conditioning condensers on the roof and the water from
Pink’s rooftop gardens to run both into the Unit and to seep through the
exterior walls into the Unit. 
 
* * * 
 
The following repairs have been neglected by the
HOA, the Board, and Pink: 
 
a. a rotted out and non-existent gutter system,
which directly contributes to the continued damages to the Unit; 
 
b. a rotted out and non-existent scupper draining
directly into the Unit and allows water to seep into the Unit through the
exterior walls; 
 
c. overwatering by the Pink Defendants located
directly above the Unit at the Property at 4:00 a.m. for approximately
forty-five (45) minutes, “draining” through the rotted drainage system into the
Unit and seeping into the walls of the Unit;
 
d. leaks in the roof; 
 
e. water intrusion into the elevator, which has
been closed on multiple occasions; 
 
f. unlit staircases; 
 
g. untreated mold caused by the excessive water;
and 
 
h. dry rot in the walls, windows and doors caused
by the lack of any drainage system and Pink’s incessant 4:00 a.m. watering
barrage. 
 
19. Yang was appointed as defense counsel for the
HOA in the Saks Lawsuit. Yang first appeared in the Saks lawsuit in April 2019.

 
20. Sniderman, who owns the unit directly below
Saks, filed suit against the HOA and others on September 19, 2019, styled as
Sniderman v. Pink, Los Angeles County Superior Court Case No. 20STCV01637 (the
“Sniderman Lawsuit”). 
 
21. Yang was also appointed as defense counsel
for the HOA in the Sniderman Lawsuit. 
 
22. Both lawsuits arose from allegations that a
“rotted out” gutter system, a “rotted out scupper draining,” deteriorated
waterproofing, roof leaks, and other defects allowed water to damage the units
owned by Mr. Saks and Ms. Sniderman. 
 
23. Yang inspected the exterior of the Building
in October 2019. During that visit, Yang was accompanied by representatives of
the HOA. They were not accompanied by any contractors, engineers, or other leak
detection professionals. Yang did not enter any of the affected units during
this external inspection. It would be over two years before Yang returned to
the Building to view the inside of Pink’s, Saks’, and Sniderman’s units.
 
24. Over a year after first appearing in the Saks
Lawsuit, Yang finally and belatedly inquired of the HOA’s general counsel
regarding the HOA’s responsibility with regard to rain gutters, drainage
systems, and other common area Building elements. At that time, Yang had not
conducted any meaningful investigation of, nor understood, the Building’s
drainage systems. Nor had Yang carefully analyzed either governing law or the
HOA’s governing documents. Thus, not surprisingly, Yang inaccurately described
the physical characteristics of the Building in seeking counsel’s opinion:
 
Troy 
 
I am available tomorrow to discuss. 
 
I am referring to certain rain or drainage
gutters. The condominium complex has three levels. There is a specific gutter
system that drains the excess water from the top level, which is above the
balcony of the second floor unit. The gutter system over the second floor
balcony flows down to the ground level. The allegation is that the gutter
system above the second floor balcony was rotted, but the second floor
homeowner did not remedy the issue or otherwise report the issue to the HOA
until October 2018. The HOA immediately replaced the rotted portion of gutter.
I believe that the rotted rain gutter over the second floor balcony, which
services only the second floor resident, is the sole responsibility of the
second floor homeowner. The portion of the gutter system is for the exclusive
use of the three residents, and more specifically to the second floor resident.

 
I can provide you with more information,
including the allegations in the Complaint and the photographs of the specific
gutters. 
 
Rey 
 
25. Yang’s description of the gutter system was
incorrect. Yang did not understand nor appreciate that the gutter system
serviced the entirety of the Building, as opposed to just some of the units.
Nor did Yang understand or appreciate that water collected on the roof was
flowed through drainpipes from the roof through the common area floor/ceiling
diaphragm above Saks’ ceiling and below Pink’s floor. From there, the water
carried through these pipes flowed into an exterior rain gutter system, which
was immediately below the balcony on the fourth floor, not the second-floor
balcony. 
 
26. The HOA’s general counsel advised Yang the
HOA was responsible for the repair and replacement of any exclusive common use
areas and the maintenance, repair, and replacement of common areas. To this
end, HOA counsel advised Yang that under any scenario, the HOA was responsible
to repair or replace both common use and exclusive common use areas.
Furthermore, HOA counsel recognized the drainage system may be properly
characterized as common area, in which event the HOA would be responsible for
maintenance, repair, and replacement.
 
Rey, 
 
Photos would be helpful in my assessment; I have
been looking at the Building via Google street view and satellite. 
 
The CCRS do not specifically list drains as part
of the common area or exclusive use common area. Based on how you have
described the drain, if it serves one or more units, but not all units, then it
is an exclusive use common area (per Art. I, Section 28). The Association’s
CCRS do not state whether owners or the Association is responsible for this
kind of exclusive use common area. The exclusive use common area mentioned in
the CCRS relate to exclusive use common areas identified in the condo plan, and
the condo plan does not mention drains. Therefore, we would have to rely on
Civil Code 4775(a)(3), which makes owners responsible for maintaining exclusive
use common areas and the Association responsible for repairing and replacing
exclusive use common areas. 
 
However, if the drain were to be considered a
part of the common area, then per CC&R Article VII, Section 1.A.4, the
Association would be responsible for maintaining, repairing, restoring,
replacing and making necessary improvements to the drain. 
 
Please let me know if you have any questions. 
 
Best, 
 
Troy A. Kennedy, Esq. 
 
27. While correct in finding that the HOA had the
obligation to repair and replace the drainage pipes, whether denominated as
common area or exclusive use common area, the HOA’s general counsel’s
suggestion that drainage systems may be exclusive use common area was
incorrect. The drainage systems were neither designated as exclusive use common
areas, nor would they be. The drainage systems did not service only a single
unit. 
 
28. By letter dated May 12, 2020, Yang reported
to the insurance carrier that the information provided to him by the HOA’s
outside counsel provided little guidance because counsel had used the terms
“maintain” and “repair” interchangeably.
 
[…]
 
34. As such, Yang’s suggestion that Kennedy’s
advice did not provide “much guidance” and that Kennedy had used the words
“‘maintain’ and ‘repair’ interchangeably” was erroneous. 
 
35. Though Yang still had yet to evaluate and
identify the source of the water intrusion, in January 2022, Yang filed a
motion for summary judgment on behalf of the HOA. Therein, Yang argued the HOA
had no obligation to repair or maintain the drainage systems. The gist of the
argument Yang presented was that the CCR’s adopted the relevant portions of
Sections 4145 and 4775 for purposes of defining “exclusive use common area”
and, as such, the HOA had no obligation to remedy the water intrusion. 
 
36. When Yang filed the summary judgment motion,
despite having been counsel to the HOA for nearly two years, Yang still did not
appreciate that the drainage pipes serviced all of the units by removing water
from the common area roof and were not identified in the governing documents as
exclusive use common areas. Meaning, the drainpipes were actually common areas
and within the maintenance, repair, and replace obligations assigned to the
HOA. Further, even if the drainage pipes were exclusive common use area, the
HOA was still required to repair or replace them. Rotted pipes cannot be
maintained, nor can they be repaired. They must be replaced. 
 
37. In the motion, Yang argued “exclusive use
common area” meant any portion of the common area that was for “exclusive use
of one or more, but fewer than all, of the owners.” 
 
38. Yang did not appreciate that, pursuant to
Civil Code § 4145, “exclusive use common area” is defined as follows: (a)
“Exclusive use common area” means a portion of the common area designated by
the declaration for the exclusive use of one or more, but fewer than all, of
the owners of the separate interests and which is or will be appurtenant to the
separate interest or interests. 
 
39. The term “declaration” referred to in Section
4145 is defined in Civil Code § 4135 as a document that contains certain
information required by statute:
 
“Declaration” means the document, however
denominated, that contains the information required by Sections 42501 and
4255.2 
 
40. The CCRS and Condo Plan for the HOA
designated only four areas as “exclusive common use areas.” The designated
areas did not include drainage systems. Rather, the CCRS expressly stated that
drainage was within the responsibility of the HOA. 
 
41. The CCRS provide the HOA was to “A. maintain,
repair, restore, replace and make necessary improvements to the Common Area or
Community Facilities including without limitation, the following: . . . 2. That
portion of the project identified on the Condominium Plan as Exclusive Use
Common Areas, for the exclusive use of a particular unit shown on the Plan by
the Unit Number and an appropriate letter designation, . . . 4. drainage
facilities. . . ..” Article VII, § 1, A. 3, 4. 
 
42. Thus, the argument Yang presented in the
summary judgment motion was erroneous. Merely because a portion of the Building
was accessible or used by only one unit did not saddle the owner of the unit
with maintenance, repair, and replacement obligations. Rather, a unit owner was
only obligated to maintain those portions of the Building designated within the
CCRS only in the event the CCRS expressly designated those portions as
exclusive common use. Even then, the HOA remained responsible to repair or replace
those areas as necessary. 
 
43. In May 2022, over three years after Yang was
assigned to defend the Saks Lawsuit and nearly 2 years and 6 months after
Yang’s initial exterior inspection, Yang attended a preliminary visual
inspection of the Building with a “leak inspection expert,” John Shepard.
During this visit, Mr. Shepard recommended retaining “a plumbing expert to
scope/map the roof drains and see if there’s any potential corrosion.”
 
44. In August 2022, Yang attended a site
inspection of Pink’s residence, Unit 402, which was on the top floor of the
Building. During this visit, Mr. Shepard opined that it was “more likely that
the design of the southside drainage system itself was the problem, but it
appears that after the repairs this issue is now resolved.” 
 
45. In September 2022, during destructive testing
of the affected units, a plumber retained by the plaintiffs “scope the drain
lines from the roof level . . ..” He noted “there is a negative slope which
allows water to pool, while the pipe itself is corroded and spalling.” Yang
interpreted this to mean “water is coming through the area of the corroded pipe
and dripping down into the lower wall areas of the Building.” 
 
46. Shortly thereafter, in October 2022, experts
designated by Saks and Sniderman, construction expert witness Stephen Cook and
homeowner’s association expert witness Daniel Nordberg, provided their expert
witness reports.
 
[…]
 
48. Mr. Cook’s October 18, 2022, report also
includes numerous other images of rusty and heavily corroded drainage pipes
running through the ceiling cavity above Saks’ unit, including images of two
cracked pipes:  […]
 
49. Yang acknowledged in the November 2022 report
that experts’ reports “suggest possible liability as to our clients.” But Yang
did not provide a standalone liability analysis in that report.
 
50. The liability analysis Yang provided in their
December 2022 report did not address the cracked and corroded drainpipes. 
 
51. Within their February 2023 report, Yang
reported that due to heavy rains in January, Saks had observed water leaking
from the cast iron pipe. Yang also noted an additional inspection was conducted
on January 16, 2023, during which plaintiffs’ construction expert “noted a
large crack (possibly 8 feet long) which extended horizontally near the top of
the main cast iron pipe.” Despite having received Mr. Cook’s prior report
containing annotated photographs of cracks in the cast iron pipes, which images
appear above, Yang wrote, “(Again, we note that Mr. Cook did not previously
identify or photograph this extensive horizontal crack in the main cast iron
pipe . . ..”) 
 
52. Finally, in email correspondence dated
February 22, 2023, Yang wrote “we continue to believe that liability is
probable . . ..” 
 
53. Despite this conclusion, Yang did not raise
the risks the HOA faced when asked to weigh in on a memorandum to be
distributed to the HOA members concerning a vote for an assessment to repair
the Building. Thus, when the condominium owners were asked to vote to make a
special assessment to repair damage to the premises, they were not advised of
the significant cracks in the common area drainage pipes. 
 
54. In May 2023, Yang communicated that the HOA
faced liability because “there is no means to dispute that the water leaks from
the common area cast iron pipe which runs through the ceiling of Unit 303 did
not contribute to the water intrusion and damage to Unit 303, Unit 203, and the
Building.” 
 
55. Eventually, the Saks and Sniderman Lawsuits
resolved by way of settlement. As part of that settlement, the HOA was
obligated to rehabilitate the damaged portions of the Building.
 
[…]
 
66. As counsel appointed by the HOA’s insurance
carrier, Yang had a relationship with the insurance carrier. 
 
67. While representing the HOA and serving at the
request of the HOA’s insurance carrier, Yang were laboring under a significant
conflict of interest, the byproduct of which is Yang did not provide to the HOA
proper advice because doing so would compromise the interests of the insurance
carrier. 
 
68. On the one hand, it was in the best interest
of the HOA to promptly remedy the Buildings’ broken drainage systems to
mitigate against further damages and decay resulting from continued water
intrusion. 
 
69. On the other hand, if Yang had informed the
HOA that it had liability to repair the damage caused by the water intrusion
and recommended that it do so, that would compromise the insurance carrier with
regard to its exposure to and negotiating leverage with Saks and Sniderman, by
conceding the HOA to be at fault. 
 
70. As such, the HOA is informed and believes,
and based thereon alleges, that rather than promptly conduct the necessary
factual investigation and legal analysis, Yang instead concocted an unsound
legal argument premised on an incorrect interpretation of the facts and law. By
asserting that the HOA had zero responsibility to repair and replace drainage
systems and pipes, Yang was able to placate the HOA that it need not conduct
necessary repairs, thereby protecting the insurance carrier. Furthermore, given
the advice from the HOA’s counsel in 2020 that the HOA was required to repair
and replace the common area and exclusive use common area – which repairs were
outside the scope of insurance coverage – the HOA is informed and believes and
based thereon alleges that Yang knew the HOA was going to pay for the repairs
eventually and concluded that it would suffer no harm by virtue of his
erroneous legal advice. 
 
71. As a direct and proximate result of
representing two different clients with divergent interests, Yang failed to
provide necessary and appropriate advice to the HOA. Among other things, the
HOA was not informed of its obligation to conduct the necessary repairs, but
rather mislead to believe it had no obligation to do so and that only certain
HOA members would be responsible for the physical damage to the Building.
 
72. Yang breached the fiduciary duties they owed
to the HOA by taking legal positions that benefitted the insurance carrier, at
the expense of the HOA.
 
(Complaint,
 ¶¶ 3-5, 9, 17-28, 34-46, 48-55, 66-72.)
 
            Thus, the Complaint alleges with
particularity facts regarding when Defendants knew or should have known about
the leak, Defendants’ years-long delay in hiring an expert to investigate the
source of the leak, and Defendants’ erroneous legal arguments.  The Complaint further alleges that this
conduct was done intentionally to favor the insurance carrier at the HOA’s
expense.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 66-72.)  As such, the Complaint’s allegations are
sufficient to support the request for punitive damages.  In particular, the Court finds that
Plaintiff’s allegations amount to establishing malice on the part of Defendants
-- conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to
the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court denies Defendants’ motion to strike
punitive damages from the complaint.  
 
Further, the Court orders Defendants to file and serve an Answer to
the Complaint on or before August 21, 2024. 
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  July 31, 2024                                                          ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court