  Case Number:  20SMCV00426    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


July 31, 2024




CASE NUMBER


20SMCV00426 




MOTION


Demurrer




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as successor trustee of
  the Helen C. Zeff Living Trust Dated September 17, 2007




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiffs Bobbie Reif and Dan Herman



 
MOTION
 
Plaintiffs Bobbie Reif (“Reif”) and Dan Herman (“Herman”)
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) sued Defendant Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., as
Successor Trustee of the Helen C. Zeff Living Trust, dated September 17, 2007
(“Wells Fargo”), to assert their rights to an easement they purportedly retained
on a parcel of land (the “Zeff Property”). 
Wells Fargo has refused to cooperate with Plaintiffs to allow Plaintiffs
to construct a driveway on the easement to access Plaintiffs’ adjacent parcel
of land (“Reif Property”) on the basis that Plaintiffs’ rights to the easement
have been extinguished by adverse possession and merger.  
 
On May 23, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the operative First Amended
Complaint (“FAC”), alleging five causes of action for (1) quiet title – express
easement; (2) quiet title – implied easement; (3) quiet title – equitable
easement; (4) quiet title – easement by necessity; and (5) declaratory relief
against Defendants Wells Fargo; Steven A. Kauffman; Janice Kauffman; Lonnie
Vidaurri; and Lara Vidaurri.
 
Wells Fargo now demurs to the third and fourth causes of action on the
grounds that they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action and are uncertain, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10,
subdivisions (e) and (f), respectively. 
Plaintiffs oppose the demurrer and Wells Fargo replies.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Wells Fargo requests the Court to
take Judicial Notice of Plaintiffs’ motion for summary judgment, or in the
alternative, summary adjudication and memorandum of points and authorities
filed in this case on September 15, 2022. 
     
 
Judicial notice may be taken
of records of any court in this state. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d)(1).) 
Because Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication is part of
the Court’s record for this case, the Court may take judicial notice of it.  (Ibid.)   However, “while courts are free to take
judicial notice of the existence of each document in a court file, including
the truth of results reached, they may not take judicial notice of the truth of
hearsay statements in decisions and court files.  Courts may not take judicial notice of
allegations in affidavits, declarations and probation reports in court records
because such matters are reasonably subject to dispute and therefore require
formal proof.”  (Lockley v. Law Office
of Cantrell, Green, Pekich, Cruz & McCort (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 875,
882 [cleaned up].)  Accordingly, the
Court takes judicial notice of the existence of Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary
Judgment/Adjudication filed in this matter as a court record, but not the truth
of the allegations or arguments contained therein.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.     DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if on consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
UNCERTAINTY
 
“[D]emurrers for uncertainty are disfavored.”  (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.)  A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained
only where the pleading is so bad that the responding party cannot reasonably
respond - i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what issues must be
admitted or denied, or what claims are directed against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California (1993)
14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Where a
demurrer is made upon the ground of uncertainty, the demurrer must distinctly
specify exactly how or why the pleading is uncertain, and where such
uncertainty appears by reference to page and line numbers.  (See Fenton v. Groveland Comm.
Services Dist. (1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 797, 809.)  
 
Although Wells Fargo demurs on the basis of uncertainty, Wells Fargo
does not raise any substantive arguments in its briefing that the causes of
action are uncertain.  Ultimately, Wells
Fargo does not demonstrate that any portions of the FAC are so bad that Wells
Fargo cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or
what claims are directed against it.  The
Court thus declines to sustain Wells Fargo’s demurrer on the basis of
uncertainty.  
 
B.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                        
i.         
Third
Cause of Action – Equitable Easement
 
For a
trial court to exercise its discretion to grant an equitable easement, three
factors must be present. First, the encroacher must be innocent. That is, his
or her encroachment must not be willful or negligent. The court should consider
the parties’ conduct to determine who is responsible for the dispute. Second,
unless the rights of the public would be harmed, the court should stop the
encroachment if the burdened landowner will suffer irreparable injury
regardless of the injury to the encroacher. Third, the hardship to the
encroacher from ordering removal of the encroachment must be greatly
disproportionate to the hardship caused plaintiff by the continuance of the
encroachment and this fact must clearly appear in the evidence and must be
proved by the defendant. Unless all three prerequisites are established, a
court lacks the discretion to grant an equitable easement.
 
(Hansen v. Sandridge Partners, L.P.
(2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1020, 1027–1028 [cleaned up].)
 
The FAC alleges:
 
32. As an alternative to a judgment granting
Plaintiffs rights to the Zeff Property via an easement by express easement or
by implied easement, Plaintiffs seek an (sic) judgment granting them an
equitable easement for the continued use of the Zeff Easement for ingress and
egress, roadway and incidental purposes that shall run with the land and be
binding on all Defendants and their successors-in-interest. 
 
33. Plaintiffs request that this Court balance
the equities and grant Plaintiffs an equitable easement on the basis that (1)
Plaintiffs are informed and believe that they and their predecessors have used,
or intend to use, the Zeff Easement for ingress and egress, roadway and
incidental purposes since at least 1967, with the belief that they had the
right to use the Zeff Easement; (2) Plaintiffs have spent hundreds of thousands
of dollars to prepare for the development of plaintiffs' property, which is
currently vacant land, to build a single family residence, with the belief that
they had the right to use the Zeff Easement in order to build a roadway from
Harbor Vista Drive to plaintiffs' property; (3) Plaintiffs have no other legal
access from their property to Harbor Vista Drive that would meet the
requirements needed to obtain approval from the governing entities to develop
plaintiffs' property ; (4) there will be irreparable, harm to the Plaintiffs if
they cannot use the Zeff Easement; and (5) Defendants will suffer minimal harm
from the granting to Plaintiffs of such an easement over the Zeff property, as
Defendants would still have the same access to the Zeff property as they have
today.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 32-33.)
 
            Thus, Plaintiffs have adequately
alleged a cause of action for equitable easement.  Wells Fargo argues that Plaintiffs’
allegations are insufficient because Plaintiffs do not allege they are innocent
trespassers.  But
Plaintiffs allege “Plaintiffs are informed and believe that they and their
predecessors have used, or intend to use, the Zeff Easement for ingress and
egress, roadway and incidental purposes since at least 1967, with the belief
that they had the right to use the Zeff Easement.”  This is sufficient at this stage of the
litigation.
 
            Wells Fargo also argues that
Plaintiffs fail to allege a cause of action for an equitable easement because allegations
that Plaintiffs have a granted easement are inconsistent with allegations that
they are trespassers.  However, plaintiffs are permitted to “plead in the
alternative and make inconsistent allegations.” 
(Klein v. Chevron U.S.A., Inc. (2012) 202 Cal.App.4th 1342, 1388.)
 
            Finally,
Wells Fargo argues that Plaintiffs fail to allege the second and third elements
of an equitable easement because, contrary to the allegation that “Defendants
will suffer minimal harm” if the easement is granted, the easement “will
necessarily result in the removal of a portion of the Zeff house,” a wrought
iron fence and an old growth tree.  (Opp.
at p. 15.)  Whether Defendants will
actually suffer minimal harm is a factual question to be determined at later
stages of the litigation.
 
            Therefore,
the Court overrules Wells Fargo’s demurrer to the third cause of action.
 
                                                      
ii.         
Fourth
Cause of Action – Easement By Necessity
 
An easement by necessity
requires (1) a strict necessity; and (2) the dominant and servient tenements
were under common ownership at the time of conveyance giving rise to the
necessity.  (Murphy v. Burch (2009)
46 Cal.4th 157).  Strict necessity
requires that the easement be strictly necessary to access the dominant
tenement.  “No easement will be implied
where there is another possible means of access, even if that access is shown
to be inconvenient, difficult, or costly.” 
(Id. at p. 164.)  
 
The FAC alleges:
 
35. Alternatively, Plaintiffs seek an Easement by
Necessity over the Zeff Property for access to plaintiffs' property. 
 
36. Plaintiffs are informed and believe and
thereon allege that there was a common ownership of plaintiffs' property and
the Zeff property. 
 
37. Plaintiffs are informed and believe and
thereon allege that during the common ownership of the Reif Property and the
Zeff Property was an existing and continuous need of the Zeff Easement by the
common owner for access to plaintiffs' property to permit plaintiffs' property
to be developed. 
 
38. Plaintiffs are informed and believe and
thereon allege that the common ownership was severed by a sale and therefore
the Zeff Easement was intended to exist, at all times, by the parties to the
sale and that the Zeff Easement is strictly necessary for the use and benefit
of plaintiffs' property to be able to access plaintiffs' property from Harbor
Vista Drive, the nearest public roadway to plaintiffs' property. The governing
entities that can approve the development of a single family residence on plaintiffs'
property require an access roadway from Harbor Vista Drive to have a width of
no less than 20 feet. Plaintiffs are informed and believe that they cannot
develop a roadway of this required width without the use of the Zeff Easement
and can never access or develop their property without the use of the Zeff
Easement. 
 
39. In light of the foregoing, Plaintiffs seek to
quiet title against all Defendants by an Easement by Necessity to the Zeff
Easement as of July 31, 2003, the date when REIF sold the Zeff Property to Karo
Vartanian and George J. Anderson, or such other date the Court may deem
reasonable and just.
 
(FAC ¶¶ 35-39.)
 
Wells Fargo argues that Plaintiffs
fail to allege that the Zeff Easement is strictly necessary to access their
property, and instead, the FAC alleges the Reif Property has access to Harbor
Vista Drive by virtue of the adjacent Kauffman Easement.  (FAC, ¶¶ 7, 10.)  The Court agrees.  
 
As
alleged hereinbelow, this action involves three non-exclusive driveway
easements located adjacent to one another which have a total width of
approximately forty feet. A 12-foot wide easement is located along the westerly
property line of the Kauffman property, an 8-foot wide easement is located
along the easterly property line of the Zeff property, adjacent to the west of
the 12-foot wide easement on the Kauffman property, and a 20.94-foot wide
easement is located on the Zeff property adjacent to the west of the 8-foot
wide easement. The driveway
easements were created, inter alia, to provide vehicular access from
plaintiffs' property to Harbor Vista Drive.
 
(FAC ¶ 10, emphasis added.)  Although the adjacent Kauffman and Zeff Easements
combined may have been strictly necessary when they were first created,
Plaintiffs do not allege that the Zeff Easement is still strictly necessary for
Plaintiffs to access their property, and in fact, Plaintiffs allege they can
currently access their property by way of the adjacent Kauffman Easement.  “[I]mplied easements are not favored by the
law” and must be strictly necessary to access the parcel, such that the parcel
be completely landlocked without it.  (Horowitz
v. Noble (1978) 79 Cal.App.3d 120, 130.)
 
Therefore, the Court sustains
Wells Fargo’s demurrer to the fourth cause of action.
 
2.    
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v. City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v. Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v. Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
Here, Plaintiffs have failed to meet this burden as they do not provide
any additional facts that could cure the deficiency identified above.    
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules Wells Fargo’s Demurrer to
the Third Cause of Action, and sustains without leave to amend Wells Fargo’s
Demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action.  
 
Further, the Court orders Wells Fargo to file and serve an Answer to
the FAC on or before August 21, 2024.    
 
Wells Fargo shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 

 
 
DATED:  July 31, 2024                                                          ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court