  Case Number:  22STCV18567    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff
David Abbasi’s Motions: (1) For Sanctions Regarding Special Interrogatories,
(2) For Sanctions Regarding Requests for Production, and (3) To Deem Matters
Admitted 
            Plaintiff
David Abbasi moves for terminating and other sanctions against
defendant/cross-complainant Jerry Davidson and for an order deeming the truth
of matters admitted.  Disobeying an order
compelling further responses to interrogatories or requests for production is
grounds for sanctions up to and including termination.  (CCP § 2030.300(e) [interrogatories]; §
2031.310(i) [requests for production].) 
Disobeying an order compelling further responses to requests for
admission is grounds for monetary sanctions and an order deeming the matters
admitted.  (§ 2033.290(e).)   
            Jerry
Davidson disobeyed orders compelling further responses to special
interrogatories, requests for production, and requests for admission.  On July 25, 2023, the court ordered Jerry
Davidson to serve further responses to special interrogatories, requests for
production, and requests for admission within 30 days.  The court also ordered Jerry Davidson to pay
monetary sanctions within 30 days.  Jerry
Davidson concedes he did not comply with those orders within 30 days.  (P. Davidson Decl., ¶ 4.) 
Jerry Davidson opposes these motions on
the basis that he served supplemental responses to the special interrogatories,
requests for production, and requests for admission on September 19, 2023.  (P. Davidson Decl., ¶ 4.)  That was more than 30 days after July 25,
2023.  Even if Jerry Davidson did serve
the responses then, he disobeyed the court’s orders.
Jerry Davidson fails to show he served his
supplemental responses when he claims.  In
his declaration, Perrin Davidson—who is both a defendant and the attorney for
Jerry Davidson—states, “Per the Court’s July 25, 2023 Order, on September 19,
2023, 1 served my client’s verified amended responses to Plaintiff's document
production, special interrogatories, and requests for admission.”  (P. Davidson Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. 2.)  Perrin Davidson fails to show valid service
of those responses for two reasons.  
First, the proofs of service attest to
service by mail, which cannot be done by a party.  “Proof of service by mail may be made by one
of” four methods, all of which require stating that “the person making the
service” is “not a party to the cause.” 
(CCP § 1013a(1)-(4).)  The proofs
of service state, “I, the undersigned, declare that I am a resident of the county
aforesaid; I am over the age of eighteen years and not a party to the within
entitled action.”  (Ex. 2, proofs of
service, italics added.)  Perrin Davidson,
who states he “served [his] client’s verified amended responses” (P. Davidson
Decl., ¶ 4), is a party to this action. 
He therefore cannot serve any papers by mail.
Second, the proofs of service are not
signed and do not state any date of execution. 
They have a blank line, followed by “I declare under penalty of perjury
under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing is true and
correct.  [¶]  Executed on at Los Angeles, California.”  (P. Davidson Decl., Ex. 2, proofs of
service.)  They also do not include the
printed name of the person who purportedly served them. 
The court also notes that the proofs of
service attached to Jerry Davidson’s oppositions similarly do not state who
served them and are not signed. 
Though Jerry Davidson did not prove he
served these responses when he claims, the court will exercise its discretion
only to impose further monetary sanctions. 
Discovery sanctions should be imposed incrementally, “starting with monetary
sanctions and ending with
the ultimate sanction of termination.”  (Lopez
v. Watchtower Bible & Tract Society of New York, Inc. (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 566, 604.)  Appropriate sanctions are those “such as are
suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the
objects of the discovery he seeks, but [not] which are designed not to
accomplish the objects of discovery but to impose punishment.”  (Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (1991)
231 Cal.App.3d 481, 488.)    
Even if Jerry Davidson never properly served
his supplemental discovery responses, plaintiff’s reply briefs acknowledge ultimately
receiving copies of the responses.  Plaintiff
thus accomplished the objects of his discovery, though belatedly.  At this point, imposing terminating, issue,
or evidence sanctions, or ordering the matters specified in requests for
admission deemed admitted, would cross the line from accomplishing discovery to
punishing Jerry Davidson.  The court
therefore will only impose further monetary sanctions against Jerry Davidson
and his counsel, Perrin Davidson.
Disposition
            Plaintiff
David Abbasi’s motion for sanctions regarding special interrogatories is granted
in part as to monetary sanctions.  Jerry
Davidson and his counsel Perrin Davidson are ordered to pay plaintiff $3,910 in
sanctions within 15 days.  Jerry Davidson
and his counsel Perrin Davidson are jointly and severally liable for the
sanctions.  
            Plaintiff
David Abbasi’s motion for sanctions regarding requests for production is granted
in part as to monetary sanctions.  Jerry
Davidson and his counsel Perrin Davidson are ordered to pay plaintiff $3,560 in
sanctions within 15 days.  Jerry Davidson
and his counsel Perrin Davidson are jointly and severally liable for the
sanctions.  
            Plaintiff
David Abbasi’s motion for an order deeming matters admitted is granted in
part as to monetary sanctions.  Jerry
Davidson and his counsel Perrin Davidson are ordered to pay plaintiff $3,210 in
sanctions within 15 days.  Jerry Davidson
and his counsel Perrin Davidson are jointly and severally liable for the
sanctions.  