  Case Number:  23STCL01543    Hearing Date:   September 17, 2024    Dept:  85 
 
Maria Chao v. Frank D. Lanterman Regional Center,
23STCL01543

 
Tentative decision on motion to augment: denied



 
Petitioners Marla Chao and Kua Chao move to augment the Administrative
Record.
The court has read and considered the moving papers,
opposition, and reply, and renders the following tentative decision. 
 
A. Statement of
the Case
1. The Petition
Petitioners Chao filed the Petition on January 24, 2024, naming
the State Department of Developmental Services (“DDS”) as the Defendant and Frank
D. Lanterman Regional Center (“Regional Center”) as the Real Party-in-Interest.  The Petition alleges DDS’s erroneous
application of law under the Lanterman Developmental Disabilities Services Act
(the “Lanterman Act”) section 4685.8(m)(1)(A)(ii) concerning compliance with
Requirements I and II for an adjustment to a claimant’s individual budget.  The Petition alleges in pertinent part as
follows.  
Since February 28, 2013, 13-year-old Milo Chao (“Milo”) has
had an Individualized Education Program (“IEP”) for Regional Center services
based on his Autism Spectrum Disorder Diagnosis.  Although Milo is verbal, he has required a 1:1
aide since preschool because he has limited communication and lack of safety
skills.  The 1:1 aide since preschool has
been funded by his parents and reimbursed by the school district. 
On April 1, 2022, Milo enrolled in the Self Determination
Program with Regional Center.  After
graduating from elementary school, Milo required a different school as he was
no longer able to keep up with general education. 
On June 2, 2022, Milo’s IEP assessment at the higher grade
level determined that he requires 100% special education.  During the IEP assessment, the parties agreed
that a private special education school,
Frostig, would be the best fit.  Petitioners
then entered into a settlement agreement with Los Angeles Unified School
District (“LAUSD”) during which LAUSD and Petitioners’ counsel confirmed that
LAUSD will not pay for 1:1 aide at non-public special education schools.  Although non-public special education schools
have higher tuition, they generally have embedded aides in the program.  However, Frostig does not include the 1:1 aide
Milo requires.
In July 2022, Petitioners requested Regional Center to fund
the 1:1 aide through the Self Determination Program.  Regional Center found that there was a change
in circumstance to modify the Chao’s SDP budget, as the school district was no
longer reimbursing for 1:1 aide.  Nonetheless,
Regional Center denied the request, reasoning that Petitioners had not
exhausted the generic resources available and that the school district is
legally responsible to provide a 1:1 aide. 
Petitioners appealed the Regional Center’s denial to the
Office of Administrative Hearings (“OAH”). 
On December 7, 2022, OAH’s Administrative Law Judge, Erlinda
D. Shrenger, (the “ALJ”) denied Petitioners’ appeal for the Regional Center to
fund the 1:1 school aide through the Self Determination Program. 
            
            2. Course of Proceedings
On January 24, 2024, Petitioners filed the Petition and
Summons.  Petitioners also requested they
be permitted to proceed without an attorney, nor appointment of a guardian ad
litem (“GAL”) due to undue financial and practical burden.
On February 23, 2024, Regional Center filed a demurrer to
the Petition based on standing, lack of GAL, and lack of a GAL attorney.  On April 2, 2024, this court overruled the demurrer
and ordered Regional Center to answer only within 20 days. 
On April 12, 2024, Regional Center filed its Answer. 
 
B. Applicable Law
The
administrative record includes the transcript of the proceedings, all
pleadings, all notices and orders, any proposed decision by a hearing officer,
the final decision, all admitted exhibits, all rejected exhibits in the
possession of the local agency or its commission, board, officer, or agent, all
written evidence and any other papers in the case. CCP §1094.6(c); Govt. Code
§11523.
“The general
rule is that a hearing on a writ of administrative mandamus is conducted solely
on the record of the proceeding before the administrative agency.”  Toyota of Visalia v. New Motor Vehicle Bd.
(1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 872, 881.  The
court can only admit additional evidence where the party seeking its inclusion
shows (1) the evidence could not have been presented to the agency in the first
instance in the exercise of reasonable diligence or (2) was improperly
excluded. CCP §1094.5(e); Western States Petroleum Assn. v. Superior Court,
(1995) 9 Cal.4th 559, 578 (“Western States”); Eureka Citizens for
Responsible Govt. v. City of Eureka, (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 357, 366.  In addition, extra-record evidence is
admissible only if it is relevant.  Western
States, supra, 9 Cal.4th at 570.
The Code of
Civil Procedure (“CCP”) does not expressly provide for a motion to augment or
correct the administrative record, but such motions are routinely made.  See e.g., Pomona Valley Hospital
Medical Center v. Superior Court, (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 93, 101.
 
C. Analysis
Petitioners move to augment the Administrative Record with
four documents: (1) a Bipartisan Safer Communities Act (“BSCA”) Guideline from
the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (“CMS”) (“BSCA Guideline”); (2) a
DDS Self-Determination Program: Updated Goods and Services Decision Tree
(“Decision Tree”); (3) an email dated June 12, 2024 from California Department
of Health Care Services responding to an inquiry by Maria Chao, and (4) OAH decision
No. 2020020847 In the Matter of: Claimant vs. San Gabriel/Pomona Regional
Center.  In reply, Petitioners
withdraw the motion with respect to the Decision Tree, which is already in the Administrative
Record without the annotations on the proposed document.  Reply at 7.
 
1. Procedural
Issues
Regional Center argues that Petitioners’ motion is
untimely.  It points out that Petitioners
filed the motion after filing their opening brief and one week before Regional
Center’s merits opposition was due.  This
timing violates the warning in LASC Rule 3.231(g)(3) that the moving party
should discuss the timing of a motion to augment with the court at the trial
setting conference.  Opp. at 3.
Petitioners correctly reply that they did discuss their
motion to augment with the court at the June 25, 2024 trial setting conference,
and the court informed them that a motion to augment could be heard at any
time, including the day of trial. 
Regional Center had the moving papers on August 5, 2024, 22 days before
its merits opposition was due on August 27, 2024, and suffered no prejudice.  Reply at 3.[1]
There is no rule or requirement for the timing of a motion
to augment.  As a practical matter, a
petitioner may choose to schedule the motion to augment hearing before his or
her merits opening brief is due so that he or she will know the extent of an
administrative record when preparing the merits brief.  This is particularly appropriate where the
petitioner seeks to add numerous documents to the record.  Alternatively, the petitioner may assume that
his or her motion to augment will be granted and schedule the hearing on the
same day as trial.  This is particularly
appropriate when the petitioner seeks to add only a few documents to the administrative
record.  Petitioners adopted a hybrid
approach and there is nothing wrong with their timing.
Regional Center also argues that Petitioners’ motion fails
to contain a notice of motion in violation of CRC 3.1112(a)(1).  Opp. at 3-4. 
This is true and would be a basis to deny the motion if Regional Center
showed any prejudice.  It has not.
Regional Center further argues that Petitioners present the
four documents to be included in the Administrative Record without any
authentication by declaration or request for judicial notice.  This is true and is a ground to deny the
motion.  
In reply, Petitioners attempt to cure this defect by asking
the court to judicially notice the BSCA Guideline and the OAH decision.  Reply at 6. 
Petitioners cannot authenticate records for the first time in reply.  In any event, their request violates CRC 3.1113(l),
which requires that requests for judicial notice be made in a separate
document.  Further, without
authentication the court has no way of knowing whether either document is what
it purports to be.  The motion must be
denied for this reason.
 
2. Merits
            The motion also must be
denied on its merits.  Petitioners argue
that they were never informed before the administrative hearing that a denial
of Medicare coverage and a denial in writing by LAUSD were necessary criteria
for funding of a 1:1 aide -- also known as a Personal Care Service (“PCS”)
Assistant -- in school.  Mot. at 2.  
Regional Center
stated for the first time at the administrative hearing that a PCS Assistant is
not reimbursable by Medicaid, and as such, is not reimbursable by Regional
Center.  Regional Center was required under
Welf. & Inst. Code section 4701(4) to state the specific provision of law
supporting its action and lack of eligibility under Medicaid was not a basis
for Regional Center’s denial of a PCS Assistant.  Nor did Regional Center state this basis in
its position statement for the administrative hearing as required by Welf.
& Inst. Code section 4712(d)(1).  As
a result, Petitioners were unaware of the Medicaid eligibility issue at the administrative
hearing.  The BSCA Guideline is
relevant to rebut Regional Center’s position on Medicaid eligibility.  Mot. at 2-3.
Similarly, Regional Center did not give Petitioners notice that
a written denial of services by LAUSD was required to demonstrate exhaustion of
generic resources.  Regional Center knew
that LAUSD had denied PCS Assistant benefits in a non-public school setting Regional
Center employee Frank Chavez raised for the first time at the administrative
hearing that the denial must be in writing. 
The OAH decision is relevant because it shows that OAH did not require a
denial to be in writing to prove exhaustion of generic resources.  Mot. at 3-4.
Finally, Petitioners argue that the June 12, 2024 DDS email was
made in response to an inquiry by Maria Chao. 
The email explains that school districts have the responsibility to
provide a school aide and, if the claimant exhausts those services, the
regional center would have the responsibility to provide any services required
by the individual’s planning team.  This
email contradicts Regional Center’s position that Medicaid does not allow
regional centers to reimburse for a school-based PCS Assistant.  Reply at 8.
Petitioners are mixing due process/notice issues with the proper
scope of the Administrative Record under CCP section 1094.5(e).  The
court can only admit additional evidence to the Record where the party seeking
its inclusion shows (1) the evidence could not have been presented to the
agency in the first instance in the exercise of reasonable diligence or (2) was
improperly excluded.  Western States,
supra, 9 Cal.4th at 578.  
Regional
Center shows that the BSCA Guideline was published in June 2022, well
before Milo’s November 2022 administrative hearing.[2]  As a result, it could have been presented at
the administrative hearing in the exercise of due diligence.  Similarly, the OAH decision existed in 2021
and could have been presented at the administrative hearing.  Finally, Maria Chao’s May 2024 email
triggering DDS’s June 12, 2024 response could have been presented at the
administrative hearing in the exercise of due diligence.
Petitioners’ argument about notice and due process bears on
the adequacy of the administrative hearing itself and compliance with statutory
law, not the Administrative Record.  If Regional
Center violated due process and statutory requirements of notice, then the ALJ’s
decision may be set aside.  But
Petitioners cannot cure a notice defect at the administrative hearing by adding
documents to the Administrative Record.
The motion to augment the record is procedurally and
substantively in error and is denied. 
Petitioners’ remedy is to argue at trial that Regional Center violated its
due process and statutory notice requirements.


