  Case Number:  23VECV05376    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR
  COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT




CREDITORS
  ADJUSTMENT BUREAU, INC.,
 
PLAINTIFF,
 
       
   V.
 
LESTER
  FINNELL,
 
DEFENDANT.


   CASE NUMBER             DEPARTMENT
       23VECV05376       107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
MOTION
  FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 



 
I. BACKGROUND
 

Factual

 
On December 4, 2023, Plaintiff Creditors Adjustment
Bureau, Inc. (“Plaintiff” or “CAB”) filed an action against Defendant Lester
Finnell aka Lester Crawford Finnell III aka Lester C Finnell III aka Lester C
Finnell dba Seven Safe Services adba Seven Safe Security aka Seven Safe
Security Consultant aka Seven Safe (“Defendant” or “Finnell”) and Does 1
through 10.
 
On March 21, 2024, following the stipulation of the
parties, Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).  Defendant’s Answer was deemed the answer to
the FAC.
 
The FAC presents claims for breach of contract, open
book, account stated, and reasonable value. 
This action arises from Defendant Lester Finnell’s agreement to purchase
workers’ compensation insurance policies from the State Compensation Insurance
Fund (“Fund”).  CAB alleges that Defendant
breached the policies by refusing access to records of its business operations
and payroll for purposes of conducting an audit and failed to pay the insurance
premiums.  Despite the Fund’s audit
requests, Defendant did not comply. 
Thereafter, the Fund assigned Defendant’s indebtedness to Plaintiff CAB.  Plaintiff also sent notices requesting that Defendant
comply with the California Insurance Code section 11760.1, subdivisions (a) and
(d).  However, Defendant refused to allow
the Fund access to its records and failed to pay the premiums due.
 
 

Procedural

 
On December 4, 2023, Plaintiff Creditors Adjustment
Bureau, Inc. (“Plaintiff” or “CAB”) filed an action against Defendant Lester
Finnell (“Defendant” or “Finnell”).
 
Following Plaintiff’s peremptory challenge to judicial
officer, the matter was reassigned to Judge Eric Harmon in Department 107 of
the Van Nuys Courthouse West.
 
On February 26, 2024, Defendant filed an Answer.
 
On March 21, 2024, following the stipulation of the
parties, Plaintiff filed the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).  Defendant’s Answer was deemed the answer to
the FAC.
 
On June 6, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion
for Summary Adjudication (“Motion”) of Plaintiff’s first cause of action for
breach of contract.
 
II. PROCEDURAL MATTERS
 

Timeliness
     of Filings

 
According to Code of Civil Procedure
section 473c, subdivision (a)(1), a motion for summary judgment or adjudication
“may be made at any time after 60 days have elapsed since the general
appearance in the action or proceeding of each party against whom the motion is
directed or at any earlier time after the general appearance that the court,
with or without notice and upon good cause shown, may direct.”  “Notice of the motion and supporting papers
shall be served on all other parties to the action at least 75 days before the
time appointed for hearing.  If the
notice is served by mail, the required 75-day period of notice shall be
increased by 5 days if the place of address is within the State of California…If
the notice is served by facsimile transmission, express mail, or another method
of delivery providing for overnight delivery, the required 75-day period of
notice shall be increased by two court days.” 
(Civ. Proc. Code § 473c, subd. (a)(2).)
 
Furthermore, “[t]he motion shall be heard
no later than 30 days before the date of trial, unless the court for good cause
orders otherwise. The filing of the motion shall not extend the time within
which a party must otherwise file a responsive pleading.”  (Civ. Proc. Code § 473c, subd. (a)(3).)
 
Here, the Motion was filed on June 6,
2024, more than 60 days after Defendant filed his Answer on February 26,
2024.  The Motion was served by mail and
email on June 6, 2024, more than 75 days prior to the hearing, with an
additional five days for service by mail and two days for electronic
transmission.
 
Finaly, the Motion will be heard on
September 19, 2024, more than 30 days prior to the non-jury trial date set for
March 3, 2025.
 
Accordingly, the Motion was timely filed,
served, and set for hearing.
 
 
III. LEGAL STANDARD
 
A party seeking summary judgment has the burden of producing evidentiary
facts sufficient to entitle him/her to judgment as a matter of law.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(c).)  The moving party must make an
affirmative showing that he/she is entitled to judgment irrespective of whether
or not the opposing party files an opposition. 
(Villa v. McFerren (1995) 35
Cal.App.4th 733, 742-743.)  Thus, “the
initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that
there are no triable issues of material fact.” 
(Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519 (citing Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)
 
When a plaintiff seeks summary judgment, he/she must produce admissible
evidence on each element of each cause of action on which judgment is
sought.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(1).)  When a defendant seeks summary
judgment, he/she has the “burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the
party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action, even if not
separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense
to the cause of action.”  (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
 
The opposing party on a motion for summary judgment is under no evidentiary
burden to produce rebuttal evidence until the moving party meets his or her
initial movant’s burden.  (Binder v. Aetna Life Insurance Company (1999)
75 Cal.App.4th 832, 840.)  Once the
initial movant’s burden is met, then the burden shifts to the opposing party to
show, with admissible evidence, that there is a triable issue requiring the
weighing procedures of trial.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (p).)  The opposing
party may not simply rely on his/her allegations to show a triable issue but
must present evidentiary facts that are substantial in nature and rise beyond
mere speculation.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 162.)  Summary judgment must be granted “if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992)
7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
 
As to any alternative request for summary adjudication of issues, such
alternative relief must be clearly set forth in the Notice of Motion and the
general burden-shifting rules apply but the issues upon which summary
adjudication may be sought are limited by statute.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  “A motion for summary adjudication shall be
granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative
defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.”  (Ibid.)
 
IV. OBJECTIONS
 
Under the California Rules of Court, rule 3.1352, a party moving for
summary judgment must present its objections to the evidence presented either
in writing or at the hearing.  Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (q):
 
In granting or denying a motion for summary judgment
or summary adjudication, the court need rule only on those objections to
evidence that it deems material to its disposition of the motion. Objections to
evidence that are not ruled on for purposes of the motion shall be preserved
for appellate review.
 
For the purpose of judicial economy, the Court only rules on the objections
to evidence it has deemed material to the disposition of the instant Motion.
 
The Court makes the following ruling regarding Defendant’s objections to
Plaintiff’s Separate Statement.
 
1)    
Objection
to Separate Statement, Fact No. 3 – OVERRULED.
2)    
Objection
to Separate Statement, Fact No. 5 – OVERRULED.
3)    
Objection
to Separate Statement, Fact No. 7 – OVERRULED.
4)    
Objection
to Separate Statement, Fact No. 8 – OVERRULED.
5)    
Objection
to Separate Statement, Fact No. 10 – SUSTAINED.
 
The Court makes the following ruling regarding Plaintiff’s objections to
Defendant’s evidence.
 
1)    
Objection
to Finnell Declaration ¶ 7 – OVERRULED.
2)    
Objection
to Finnell Declaration ¶ 8 – SUSTAINED.
3)    
Objection
to Finnell Declaration ¶ 9 – OVERRULED.
4)    
Objection
to Finnell Declaration ¶ 10 – SUSTAINED.
5)    
Objection
to Finnell Declaration ¶ 11 – SUSTAINED.
6)    
Objection
to Finnell Declaration ¶ 12 – SUSTAINED.
7)    
Objection
to Finnell Declaration ¶ 13 – OVERRULED.
8)    
Objection
to Finnell Declaration ¶ 14 – OVERRULED.
9)    
Objection
to Finnell Declaration ¶ 15 – OVERRULED.
10) Objection to Finnell Declaration ¶
16 – SUSTAINED.
11) Objection to Finnell Declaration ¶
17 – OVERRULED.
12) Objection to Fu Declaration ¶ 3 –
OVERRULED.
13) Objection to Fu Declaration ¶ 4 –
SUSTAINED.
14) Objection to Fu Declaration ¶ 9 –
OVERRULED.
15) Objection to Fu Declaration ¶ 10 –
OVERRULED.
16) Objection to Fu Declaration ¶ 11 –
SUSTAINED.
17) Objection to Fu Declaration ¶ 12 –
SUSTAINED.
18) Objection to Fu Declaration ¶ 13 –
SUSTAINED.
19) Objection to Fu Declaration ¶ 14 –
SUSTAINED.
 
V. DISCUSSION
 
Defendant moves for summary adjudication of the first
cause of action for breach of contract, stated in the First Amended Complaint, and
Plaintiff’s right to treble damages under Insurance Code section 11760.1,
subdivision (a).
 
 
 
 
A.    
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Summary Adjudication
 
Here, Plaintiff presents evidence that Defendant and the State Compensation Insurance Fund (“Fund”) entered
into written agreements wherein the Fund would provide workers’ compensation
insurance policies to Defendant in exchange for Defendant’s premium
payments.  In support of this claim,
Plaintiff has filed the declaration of Luther Jao, the Collections
Representative at the Fund, who has submitted documents from the Fund’s file,
prepared in the ordinary course of business by the Fund’s employees and agents
having personal knowledge of the occurrences at the time they took place.  (Jao Decl. ¶¶ 1-3.)
 
On February 24, 2021, Defendant, identified as a business that “runs
unarmed security guard services” submitted an application for insurance to the
Fund.  (Jao Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. 1.)  The Fund issued an insurance policy to
Defendant Lester Finnell d.b.a. Seven Safe Services, covering the period of
February 24, 2021, through February 24, 2022, Policy No. 9293453-21 (“2021
Policy”).  (Id. at ¶ 5, Ex.
2.)  The policy included language noting
“that the interim premiums are originally based on an estimate with actual
premiums being determined after the policy terminates or is canceled.”  (Ibid.)  During the course of the policy, the insured was
obligated to submit voluntary payroll reports and to certify their accuracy and
the Fund could adjust the interim premiums based on these records.  (Id. at ¶¶ 5-6, Ex. 2.)  The insured was advised that willful
underreporting is a violation of the California fraud statutes.  (Ibid.)
 
Here, Defendant submitted two Payroll Reports for the 2021 Policy term,
reporting $136,858.44 in the security guard classification (7721) and
$33,143.56 in the clerical classification (8810).  (Jao Decl. ¶ 6, Ex. 3.)  Following termination of the policy, the Fund
sent Defendant letters regarding the required audit, Defendant participated in
the audit, and the auditor prepared detailed worksheets.  (Id. at ¶ 7, Exs. 4-5.)  The Fund generated a Final Audit Statement on
June 17, 2022, showing additional premiums due in the amount of $27,728.48 due
to higher payroll amounts, which Defendant did not dispute and paid in full on
July 15, 2022.  (Id. at ¶ 8, Ex. 6.)
 
After the 2021 Policy expired, the Fund, pursuant to its policy of
automatic renewals, issued a new policy, No. 9293453-22, covering the period of
February 24, 2022, through February 24, 2023 (“2022 Policy”), with the same
terms and conditions and audit requirement. 
(Jao Decl. ¶ 9, Ex. 7.)  Defendant
submitted Payroll Reports for the 2022 Policy. 
(Id. at ¶ 10, Ex. 8.)  The
Fund sent letters demanding Defendant’s cooperation with the audit of the 2022
Policy on February 27, 2023, and March 13, 2023.  (Id. at ¶ 11, Exs. 9-10.)  On April 19, 2023, the Fund contacted
Defendant’s broker of record for assistance in getting Defendant to comply with
the audit; a copy of the Fund’s Progress Notes reflecting this conversation is
attached as Exhibit 11.  (Id. at  ¶ 11, Ex. 11.) 
Defendant ignored these communications and, thus, no audit could be
completed.  (Id. at ¶ 12.)  The Fund issued an Estimated Final Statement
reflecting an estimated balance of $67,194.66, and mailed it to Defendant on
June 16, 2023.  (Id. at ¶ 12, Ex.
12.)  The estimated premiums were based
entirely on the voluntary Payroll Reports submitted by the Defendant for the
2022 Policy.  (Id. at ¶ 12.)
 
After the 2022 Policy expired and before the Fund knew that Defendant did
not intend to comply with the 2022 Policy audit, the Fund issued a new policy,
No. 9293453-23, covering the period of February 24, 2023, through February 24,
2024 (“2023 Policy”), with the same terms and conditions and audit
requirement.  (Jao Decl. ¶ 13, Ex.
13.)  However, as a result of Defendant’s
failure to comply with the 2022 Policy audit, the Fund cancelled the 2023
Policy effective May 8, 2023; the Notice of Cancellation is attached as Exhibit
14.  (Id. at ¶ 14, Ex. 14.)  The Fund issued an Estimated Final Premium
Statement for the 2023 Policy, showing a $0 balance for the three months before
it was terminated based on the premiums Defendant had already paid for that
policy.  (Id. at ¶ 15, Ex. 15.)
 
On August 4, 2023, the Fund sent Defendant a letter regarding the
$67,194.67 still due and on September 5, 2023, it sent a Final Notice
indicating that the account would be assigned to the Creditors Adjustment
Bureau if the amount was not paid.  (Jao
Decl. ¶ 16, Exs. 16-17.)  The balance was
not paid, and the account was assigned to Plaintiff CAB around September 20,
2023.  (Id. at ¶ 16, Ex. 18.)  The balance is still due.  (Ibid.)
 
Plaintiff argues that based on this evidence, the Fund sent two letters to
Defendant on February 27, 2023, and March 13, 2023, and contacted Defendant’s
broker on April 19, 2023, requesting the audit. 
CAB also attempted to get Defendant’s compliance with the audit.  Prior to filing the instant lawsuit, on
September 21, 2023, Plaintiff CAB’s counsel sent Defendant a letter advising
him of the need to audit the 2022 Policy term and informing him that Plaintiff
could seek treble damages under Insurance Code section 11760.1, subdivision
(a), if Defendant did not consent to the audit. 
(Freed Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. 1.) 
Plaintiff also sent a certified letter meeting the requirements of
section 11760.1, subdivision (a), to defense counsel on February 5, 2024.  (Id., Ex. 2.)  Defendant again failed to contact the Fund
regarding the audit.
 
Plaintiff argues that at least three attempts were made to get Defendant to
comply with the requisite audit.  The
first attempt was made in February 2023 and the final attempt was made in
February 2024.  Given that Defendant did
not comply with the audit requests, he is liable for treble damages for the
estimated invoice for the 2022 Policy under section 11760.1, subdivision (a).
 
As no triable issue of material fact exists regarding the breach of
contract cause of action and the issue of treble damages, Plaintiff argues that
summary adjudication should be granted.
 
“The standard elements of a claim for breach of contract are: ‘(1) the
contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) damage to plaintiff therefrom. [Citation.]’”  (Wall Street Network, Ltd. v. New York
Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1171, 1178 (citation omitted).)
 
Here, Plaintiff has met its burden of producing evidence as to each element
of the breach of contract cause of action. 
Plaintiff has shown that a written agreement existed between Defendant
and Plaintiff’s assignor, the State Compensation Insurance Fund.  Plaintiff’s assignor performed its
obligations under the agreement by issuing the insurance policies and making
the required requests to audit Defendant’s payroll records.  Defendant breached the agreement that
required compliance with the audit requirements and failed to pay outstanding
premiums, causing Plaintiff’s assignor to incur damages.  Subsequently, the debt was assigned to
Plaintiff CAB.
 
Moreover, Defendant has met its burden of showing that it is entitled to
treble damages pursuant to Insurance Code section 11760.1.  Pursuant to section 11760.1:
 
(a)  
If
an employer fails to provide for access by the insurer or its authorized
representative to its records, to enable the insurer to perform an audit to
determine the remuneration earned by the employer’s employees and by any of its
uninsured subcontractors and the employees of any of its uninsured
subcontractors during the policy period, the employer shall be liable to pay to
the insurer a total premium for the policy equal to three times the insurer’s
then-current estimate of the annual premium on the expiration date of the
policy. The employer shall also be liable, in addition to the premium, for
costs incurred by the insurer in its attempts to perform an audit, after the
insured has failed upon the insurer’s third request during at least a 90-day
period to provide access, and the insured has provided no compelling business
reason for the failure. This section shall only apply if the insurer elects to
comply with the conditions set forth in subdivision (d).
 
(b)  
 “Access” shall mean access at any time during
regular business hours during the policy period and within three years after
the policy period ends. “Access” may also include any other time mutually
agreed upon by the employer and insurer.
 
(c)  
The
insurer shall have and follow regular and reasonable rules and procedures to
notify employers of their duty to provide for access to records, and to contact
employers to make appointments during regular business hours for that purpose.
 
(d)  
Upon
the employer’s failure to provide access after the insurer’s third request
during at least a 90-day period, the insurer may notify the employer through
its mailing of a certified, return-receipt, document of the increased premium
and the total amount of the costs incurred by the insurer for its attempts to
perform an audit as described under subdivision (a). Upon the expiration of 30
days after the delivery of the notice, collection by the insurer of the amount
of premium and costs described under subdivision (a), less all premiums
previously paid by the employer for the policy, shall be fully enforceable and
executable.
 
(e)  
If
the employer provides for access to its records after having received the
notice described in subdivision (d), and if the insurer then succeeds in
performing the audit to its satisfaction, the insurer shall revise the total
premium and costs payable for the policy by the employer to reflect the results
of its audit.
 
Here, Plaintiff has presented evidence that Defendant has failed to provide
access to its records for the purpose of an audit of the 2022 Policy term.  Plaintiff has also shown that the Fund
contacted Defendant with a request to audit its records on February 27, March
13, and April 19, 2023.  Subsequently,
the Fund sent letters of outstanding premium payments on August 4, 2023, and
September 5, 2023.  More than 30 days
prior to filing the instant lawsuit, on September 21, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel
sent Defendant a letter advising him of the need to audit the 2022 Policy term
and informing him that Plaintiff could seek treble damages under Insurance Code
section 11760.1, subdivision.  A certified
letter, return-receipt requested, regarding the total premiums due was sent to
defense counsel on February 5, 2024. 
Defendant did not comply with the audit request or pay the outstanding premium.
 
Given that Plaintiff has met its evidentiary as to the elements of the
breach of contract cause of action, as well as its entitlement to treble
damages, the burden shifts to Defendant to show that triable issues of material
fact exist.
 
B.    
Defendant’s
Opposition
 
In its Opposition, Defendant argues that
there are triable issues of material fact and, thus, the Court should deny
Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication.
 
Defendant does not dispute the existence
of its written agreements for workers’ compensation insurance issued by the
State Compensation Insurance Fund (“Fund”). 
(Finnell Decl. ¶ 2.) According to Defendant, around February 27, 2023,
and March 13, 2023, Defendant received two letters from the Fund seeking an
audit of its records for the 2022 Policy term. 
(Finnell Decl. ¶ 6.)  Defendant
contacted the Fund’s agent and spoke to him around April 2023.  (Id. at ¶ 7.)  Defendant agreed to the audit, but requested
information regarding the audit period and inquired regarding the increase in
the estimated premium compared to other periods.  (Id. at ¶ 9.)  Subsequently, Defendant did not receive any
calls or letters demanding an audit.  (Id.
at ¶ 12.)  Defendant did not receive any
certified mail but did receive a regularly mailed letter from Plaintiff’s
counsel dated September 21, 2023, which did not state the relevant policy
period for the audit.  (Id. at ¶
13.)  Defendant did not receive any
information regarding how the estimated premium was calculated and does not
know if it is reasonable.  (Id. at
¶¶ 14-15.)  He states that he is still
“open to the audit.”  (Id. at ¶
17.)
 
Defendant’s counsel also states that he
never received certified mail from Plaintiff and never signed a return receipt,
but he did receive an email.  (Fu Decl. ¶
3.)  He emailed Plaintiff’s counsel on
May 19, 2024, indicating that Defendant “was open to be audited” and asking for
an explanation of how the estimated premium was calculated.  (Id. at ¶¶ 5, 10, Ex. A.)  In response, Plaintiff’s counsel stated that
it was “too late.”  (Id. at ¶¶
5-7, Ex. A.)  He also never received an
explanation regarding the reasonableness of the estimated premium.  (Id. at ¶ 11.)
 
Defendant argues that there are four
triable issues of material fact.
 
First, Plaintiff and its assignor have not
satisfied the requirement of providing three written requests for audit and a
certified notice to Defendant regarding the increased premiums and costs.  Here, Defendant did not receive any of the
required communications and if the certified mail was sent, it was sent to
defense counsel, not Defendant. 
Defendant argues that Insurance Code section 11760.1 explicitly requires
that the certified notice be sent to the insured employer.  Moreover, defense counsel John Fu declares
that he did not receive a certified letter on February 5, 2024, but rather an
email, which does not satisfy the requirements of Insurance Code section
11760.1.  Plaintiff cannot provide proof
of delivery as there is no return receipt signed by Counsel Fu.
 
Second, Defendant asserts that he did not
refuse to allow the audit.  During a
conversation with the Fund’s agent around April 2023, Defendant stated that he would
agree to the audit, even though the agent did not specify the precise audit period.  Defendant also asked the agent why the total
estimated premium so was high.  In an
email from Plaintiff’s counsel on May 20, 2024, in response to defense
counsel’s May 19, 2024, email, to schedule an audit, Plaintiff’s counsel
refused to schedule the audit because it was “too late.”  Thus, it was Plaintiff and its agent who
refused to conduct the audit.
 
Third, Plaintiff fails to justify the
estimated premium and show that it is reasonable.  Here, Defendant made at least four attempts
to seek justification of the amount but did not receive a response.
 
Fourth, Defendant argues that under
section 11760.1, subdivision (a), an employer can refuse an audit for a
compelling business reason.  Here,
Defendant agreed to the audit, but asked for justification for the estimated
premium amount.  According to Defendant,
whether his demand for justification was a refusal to allow an audit and may
constitute a “compelling business reason” is a triable issue of material fact.
 
C.    Reply
 
In its Reply, Plaintiff argues that Defendant
does not present admissible evidence to dispute any of Plaintiff’s claims and
instead relies on conclusory and speculative declarations.
 
First, the language of Insurance Code
section 11760.1 requires the insurer to make three requests and mail a notice
of increased premiums and costs with certified mail, return-receipt
requested.  There is no requirement for
the insurer to prove that the insured received the document.  In his declaration, Defendant admits to
actually receiving the first two requests by the Fund.  Similarly, defense counsel’s assertion that
he did not receive the certified letter is not relevant as the statute does not
require defendant’s acknowledgement of receipt. 
Plaintiff has established the facts by showing delivery of the certified
mail at 1:07 p.m. on February 7, 2024.  (See
Freed Decl., Ex. 2.)  Furthermore, the
statute does not state that the certified notice cannot be sent to the
employer’s counsel of record, particularly as Defendant was represented by an
attorney.
 
Second, Defendant states that he spoke
with an unidentified agent of the Fund around April 2023 and expressed his
consent to be audited.  However, Luther
Jao declares that he never received a response to the requests for audit and
had to contact Defendant’s insurance broker for assistance to set up the audit.
 
Third, Defendant argues that Plaintiff had
to show that the estimated premium was reasonable, but does not cite to any
authority to support this argument. 
Plaintiff argues that the estimated invoice is justified and complies
with the insurance policy terms and conditions. 
Plaintiff has shown that the estimated premium was based entirely on
Defendant’s payroll reports provided for the 2022 Policy period.  
 
Having reviewed Plaintiff’s Motion and
evidence, Defendant’s opposition and evidence, and Plaintiff’s Reply, the Court
makes the following findings.  There is
no dispute regarding the existence of written agreements between Defendant and
the State Compensation Insurance Fund. 
Moreover, the parties do not dispute that the Fund performed its
obligations, issued the workers’ compensation policies, and subsequently,
assigned Defendant’s debt to Plaintiff CAB.
 
The parties dispute whether Defendant
breached its contractual obligations.  As
stated previously, Plaintiff has met its burden of producing sufficient
evidence to show that Defendant refused to comply with the audit requirement of
the insurance policy and to pay the outstanding premiums.  On the contrary, Defendant has not presented
sufficient evidence to create a triable issue of material fact regarding his
breach of the agreement.  Defendant
asserts that he did not refuse to allow the audit and during a conversation
with an unidentified agent of the Fund around April 2023, expressed his
willingness to be audited.  Moreover,
defense counsel sent an email to Plaintiff’s counsel on May 19, 2024,
expressing Defendant’s willingness to schedule an audit.  Here, Plaintiff’s business records indicate
that several written notices were sent to Defendant requesting his compliance
with the audit between February 2023 and February 2024.  In response, the Court does not find that Defendant
has presented evidentiary
facts that are substantial in nature and rise beyond mere speculation to show
that he did comply with the audit requirement. 
(Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 162.)  Moreover, the
email to Plaintiff’s counsel on May 19, 2024, was more than 30 days after the
delivery of the notice on defense counsel, thus, “collection by the insurer of
the amount of premium and costs described under subdivision (a), less all
premiums previously paid by the employer for the policy, [had become] fully
enforceable and executable.”  (Ins. Code
§ 11760.1, sub. (d).)  Thus, there are no
triable issues of material fact regarding Defendant’s failure to comply with
the audit requirement and to pay the outstanding premium.
 
Moreover, the Court does not find that
there is a triable issue of material fact regarding Plaintiff’s entitlement to
treble damages pursuant to section 11760.1. 
As stated previously, Plaintiff met its burden of showing that it made
at least three audit requests and sent a certified letter, with return receipt
requested, to defense counsel.  In
opposition, Defendant acknowledges that he received two letters from the Fund
for an audit of the 2022 Policy term on February 27, and March 13, 2023.  (Finnell Decl. ¶ 6.)  Subsequently, he received a regularly mailed
letter on September 21, 2023, from Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the
audit.  (Id. at ¶ 13.)  Defendant’s statement in the Opposition that
he never received any communication regarding the audit requests contradicts
his own sworn declaration.  Regarding the
mailing of the certified letter, Plaintiff has submitted proof of mailing the
notice to defense counsel via certified mail, return receipt requested, as well
as proof of delivery on February 7, 2024. 
Defendant does not present any authority for its argument that his
counsel could not be served while he was a represented party in the proceedings.  Moreover, defense counsel’s statement that he
did not receive the certified mail is not sufficient evidence to raise a
triable issue of material fact as to Plaintiff’s mailing of the notice and
compliance with the Insurance Code mailing requirement.  Defense counsel also acknowledges that he
received notice by email.  Thus, the
Court finds that Defendant has not presented sufficient evidence to raise a
triable issue of material fact regarding Plaintiff’s compliance with Insurance
Code section 11760.1 and its entitlement to treble damages.
 
Defendant also argues that there are
triable issues of material fact as to the justification of the estimated
premium and its reasonableness.  He
states that he has made multiple attempts to seek justification of the
amount.  However, Defendant does not cite
to any authority for the assertion that Plaintiff was obligated to show that
the estimated premium was reasonable or that Plaintiff’s reliance on
Defendant’s payroll reports to calculate the estimated premium was unreasonable.  Defendant fails to present any evidence that
may raise a triable issue of fact regarding the reasonableness of the
calculation.
 
Finally, Defendant argues that under
section 11760.1, subdivision (a), an employer can refuse an audit for a
compelling business reason.  However,
Defendant fails to present any triable issues of material fact regarding any
compelling business reasons that would render his refusal acceptable under
section 11760.1.
 
Given that Plaintiff has met its burden of
presenting evidence to show that it is entitled to judgment as a matter of law
as to the cause of action for breach of contract and the issue of treble
damages and Defendant has failed to present sufficient evidence to raise any
triable issues of material fact, Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is
granted.
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff Creditors
Adjustment Bureau, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of the breach of
contract cause of action and the issue of treble damages is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
                                                   
__________________________________
                                                  Judge Eric Harmon,
Department 107, Van Nuys
September 19, 2024                                       Los Angeles County Superior Court