 Case Number:  24TRCV01800    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling  HEARING DATE:                 November 21, 2024  CASE NUMBER:                  24TRCV01800   CASE NAME:                        Luz  Ochoa and Daniel Lara v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc., et al.   MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiffs,  Luz Ochoa and Daniel Lara  RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant,  American Honda Motor Co., Inc.    TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set.  MOTION:                              (1) Motion to Compel AHM’s Further  Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One                                                 (2) Plaintiff’s Request  for Sanctions                                                 (3) AHM’s Request for  Sanctions    Tentative Rulings:                   (1) Motion to Compel AHM’s  Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One  is CONTINUED.                                                 (2) Plaintiff’s  Request for Sanctions is CONTINUED.                                                 (3) AHM’s Request for  Sanctions is CONTINUED.    I. BACKGROUND    A. Factual   On  May 28, 2024, Plaintiffs, Luz Ochoa and Daniel Lara (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)  filed a complaint against Defendant, American Honda Motor Co., Inc., (“AHM”)  and DOES 1 through 10. The Complaint alleges causes of action for: (1)  Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty; and (2) Violation  of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warrant Act Breach of Implied Warranty; and (3)  Violation of Business and Professions Code § 17200.     On  July 11, 2024, Plaintiffs propounded their first set of discovery requests,  including Requests for Production of Documents (“RFPs”), to investigate and  develop the case. On August 27, 2024, Defendant served its responses which  Plaintiffs believe include several non-code compliant responses. According to  Plaintiffs, aside from asserting inappropriate objections, Defendant failed to  provide substantive responses to many of Plaintiffs’ requests. In response,  Plaintiffs’ counsel sent a meet and confer letter to Defense counsel on August  18, 2024, outlining the perceived deficiencies with a new deadline set for  August 24, 2024. To date, Plaintiffs maintain Defendant has not provided the  required responses and has significantly disrupted the discovery process.    Thus,  Plaintiffs move to compel AHM’s further responses.  B. Procedural               On October 15, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this Motion to  Compel AHM’s Further Responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of  Documents, Set One. On November 7, 2024, AHM filed an opposition brief. To  date, no reply brief has been filed.     II. ANALYSIS  A.     Legal  Standard  A motion to compel further  responses to a demand for inspection or production of documents (“RFP”) may be  brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate,  evasive, or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or  overly generalized objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).) A  motion to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good  cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See Code Civ.  Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court  (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing  that there “a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the  discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to  other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.” If the  moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden  is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct  (2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) ¿  "The court shall limit the  scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness  of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought  will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence." (Cal. Code of Civ.  Proc. § 2017.020(a).) Generally, objections on the ground of burden require the  objecting party to produce evidence of (a) the propounding party's subjective  intent to create burden or (b) the amount of time and effort it would take to  respond. (See West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In  and For Los Angeles County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) However, no such  evidence is necessary where discovery is obviously overbroad on its face. (See Obregon  v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.) B.     Discussion    a.       Meet and Confer Efforts are Insufficient   Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, a motion  seeking to compel further responses to inspection demands must be “accompanied  by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  2031.310, subd. (b)(2).) Here, Plaintiffs’ attorney, Ezra Ryu, has filed a  declaration (“Ryu Decl.”) which discusses his meet and confer efforts with AHM’s  counsel.    Here, the court finds that Plaintiffs’ meet and confer efforts are  insufficient for a number of reasons. Ryu asserts he sent a letter to AHM’s  counsel on August 18, 2024 to begin the meet and confer process which outlined  the perceived deficiencies in AHM’s responses and stated the new deadline of  August 24, 2024. (Ryu Decl., ¶ 5.) However, the moving papers concede that AHM  did not serve its responses until August 27, 2024 - after the letter and new  deadline date were already set. The court is perplexed how Ryu could send a  meet and confer letter regarding the perceived deficiencies of AHM’s responses  without actually receiving those responses prior to said letter being sent.    The court understands that based on the letter attached to the Ryu  declaration as Exhibit C, that Plaintiff’s moving papers may include a clerical  error when labeling the date of the letter and due dates as August 18th and  24th, despite the letters specifying September 18th and 24th. (Ryu Decl.,  Exhibit C.) However, this discrepancy does not end at the potential clerical  error. As noted by AHM’s opposition brief, the letter further presents the  following discrepancies: (1) this letter was sent to a different attorney at a  different firm; (2) although the Plaintiffs listed in the case at bar were  written in the RE: line, the case number listed is for a different case; (3)  the vehicle listed is different from that of the Subject vehicle; and (4) the  first sentence of the letter refers to different plaintiffs. (Declaration of  Jessica L. Barakat (“Barakat Decl.”), ¶ 8.) Taken in totality, each of these  factors renders Plaintiffs’ meet and confer efforts insufficient.    Even if the court were to overlook all of the discrepancies presented  in Plaintiffs’ counsel’s meet and confer efforts, the court would still find  Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts to be insufficient. Sending one letter that  requires further responses to be submitted less than a week after the date of  the letter is not what this court considers to be meeting and conferring in  good faith. Even though neither Plaintiffs’ moving papers nor AHM’s opposition  papers include a response from AHM, Plaintiffs’ counsel’s one attempt at  contacting AHM’s counsel would not be enough. There is no indication that a  follow up email was sent nor an attempt to contact Defense counsel  telephonically even after AM served responses.     Thus, the parties are ORDERED to meet and confer in good faith prior  to the court’s decision on this motion. This motion is CONTINUED to January 9,  2025. Plaintiffs will be required to file a supplemental declaration or status  report by January 2, 2025 detailing the parties’ meet and confer efforts as  well as the remaining discovery at issue after such efforts.   For  purposes of enabling counsel to prepare for both their meet and confer and the  parties’ oral argument at the continued hearing, the court sets forth below  some basic parameters for what it typically orders with respect to certain of  the discovery requests embraced by this motion. The court typically orders and  limits production of documents including ESI in a Song-Beverly single-vehicle  case as follows:   1.      Limiting  the relevant time period of a document category requested to the year during  which the Plaintiff’s pre-litigation demand for repurchase was pending or the  year in which Plaintiff contends that the presentation for repair reached the  threshold for Honda to be required on its own to have determined a buy-back was  required.   2.      Limiting  the scope of requests for overall buyback and warranty or buyback cost data and  statistics to those relating to the nature of the Plaintiff’s alleged  nonconformity, i.e., in this case a sensing defect, not buybacks or warranty  costs or similar statistics for engines, Infotainment systems, steering system  issues, exhaust systems, etc.   3.      Limiting  the scope of the exceedingly broad definition of “Documents” to limit the  obvious burden of requiring AHM to ask each of its employees to search their  email accounts for internal emails that might contain the word “sensing” or  “collision mitigation,” etc.  The Court  generally orders the responding party to identify and produce internal reports,  not internal emails, and to identify and produce external emails such as those  to or from the Plaintiff, plaintiff’s counsel, and the NHTSA.   4.      Denying  a compelled further response to a discovery request that requires the  responding party to review the subject vehicle’s repair history and respond to  document demands that broadly relate to any complaint raised in the Plaintiff’s  repair history.   5.      Purchase  and/or lease contract concerning the subject vehicle must be produced. 6.      Repair  orders and invoices concerning the subject vehicle must be produced, including  the “accounting” copies showing the hours and dates of activity by dealer  personnel. 7.      Communications  between the plaintiff and the warrantor/manufacturer and/or its servicing  dealers, and communications between Plaintiff and the manufacturer’s factory  representative and/or call center concerning the subject vehicle. 8.      Warranty  claims submitted to and/or approved by Defendant concerning the subject  vehicle. 9.      A  letter or other approval from the Department of Consumer Affairs evidencing  certification of the Defendant’s qualified third-party dispute resolution  process, i.e., Lemon Arbitration Program compliant with Civil Code section  1793.22(d). 10.  The  applicable Warranty Policy and Procedure Manual published by defendant and  provided to its authorized repair facilities, within the State of California,  for the year the lawsuit was filed.  If a  separate written policy, procedure, or manual exists regarding repurchases or  buy backs appliable to vehicles sold or leased in California, that would also  be required to be produced for the year the lawsuit was filed and/or the year  Plaintiff contends the vehicle became qualified for repurchase (such as upon satisfaction  of the Presentation Element of a Song-Beverly cause of action under Section  1793.2(d)(2) or 1793.22).  Such documents  would be produced subject to a protective order. 11.  Any  internal analysis and/or investigation regarding the primary or other recurring  alleged defects claimed by plaintiff in her/his vehicle, applicable to the same  year, make and model of the subject vehicle.   The Court tends to focus on the claimed symptom experienced by the  plaintiff as described in the dealers’ repair records, rather than a broad and  vague characterization of the claimed defect as described by counsel in the  litigation.  For example, if the customer  experienced a black Infotainment screen when shifting in reverse, or a harsh  engagement or clunk of the transmission when accelerating from 2nd  to 3rd gear, those symptoms rather than any other generalized nature  of malfunction of the Infotainment system or transmission would be the  narrowing of scope of such internal analysis or investigation to be  produced.   12.  Other  customers’ complaints similar to the alleged defects claimed by plaintiff,  limited to vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model  of the subject Model year 2021 Honda Accord vehicle.  The other customer complaints again would be  limited in scope to the description of the symptom as shown on the dealer  repair records.  The Court typically  discusses with counsel the type of documents that may be required and the  format for a production of documents such as in a sortable Excel spreadsheet  that lists a compilation or summary of much more voluminous documents.  The spreadsheet typically would contain the  repair date, the VIN last 6 of the other customers’ vehicle, the servicing  dealer by name, location and/or dealer code, a description of the customer’s  complaint as listed in the warranty claim submission, the determined cause if  any of that complaint or whether no problem or cause was found, and the  correction, repair, or replacement performed if any. a.       The  Court intends to narrow the scope of permissible discovery of other MY 2021 Honda  Accord vehicles’ customer complaints as noted above.  Thus, the volume of customer repair files to  be reviewed will be only the MY 2021 Honda Accords sold or leased in  California, a much smaller and less burdensome amount than the national total  of all MY 2021 Accord vehicles distributed in the United States.  Further, the parties shall discuss search  terms for key words to be used in a program for AHM to run on its digitally  stored records in AHM’s customer care center records and in its warranty reimbursement  system records.  If AHM does not have its  records stored in a database or other digitally searchable system, that will be  a point to advise the Court after the conclusion of the meet and confer  process.  The Court will NOT order AHM to  identify the other customers by name, address, telephone number or any other  PII.  Any such compilation will be  subject to a Discovery Protective Order in this case, and the custodian or  other person who generates the compilation may need to be identified if the parties  cannot stipulate to the use and admissibility of the chart. b.      The  Court will not order production of ESI as to other California customers’  complaints of repair issues that occurred on a single occasion in the  plaintiff’s repair history.  Merely  because the Plaintiff experienced a repair issue does not make discovery of  every other California customer’s records for that repair issue reasonable when  considering the needs of the litigation, the importance of that issue to the  issues disputed in this litigation, the amount in controversy, and the costs of  providing the broader scope of discovery sought by Plaintiff.   13.  Technical  Service Bulletins and/or Recall Notices for vehicles purchased in California  for the same year, make and model of the subject vehicle, beginning with those  mentioned in the repair history of the subject 2021 Honda Accord.     Because  the court is continuing this motion, the request for sanctions are also  continued and are to be discussed during the continued motion.    