 Case Number:  24TRCV00484    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 November 21, 2024   CASE NUMBER:                  24TRCV00484  CASE NAME:                        Susan  Rosak, by and through her Power of Attorney, Michael Rosak v. Providence Health  System – Southern California, et al.     MOVING PARTY:                Defendants, Providence Little Company  of Mary Medical Center Torrance and Providence Little Company of Mary  Transitional Care Center  RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiffs, Susan Rosak   TRIAL DATE:                        None  set.  MOTION:                              (1) Demurrer                                                  (2)  CMC    Tentative Rulings:                  (1) OVERRULED. LCOM’s Answer is due within 20 days                                                 (2) CMC to be set for  3/6/25       I. BACKGROUND    A. Factual  On  February 9 2024, Plaintiff, Susan Rosak, by and through her Power of Attorney,  Michael Rosak (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants, Providence  Health System – Southern California dba Providence Little Company of Mary  Medical Center Torrance, Providence Health System – Southern California dba  Providence Little Company of Mary Transitional Care Center, and DOES 1 through  200. On August 23, 2024, this court SUSTAINED Providence Health System –  Southern California dba Providence Little Company of Mary Medical Center –  Torrance’s demurrer with leave to amend, also holding the Motion to Strike was  mooted.    On  September 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging  causes of action for: (1) Elder Abuse; (2) Negligence; and (3) Violation of  Residents Rights. The FAC asserts that while under the care and treatment of  Defendants, Plaintiff developed pressure injuries to her sacrum which caused  her to endure significant pain and suffering. (FAC, ¶ 30.)   Defendants,  Providence Little Company of Mary Medical Center Torrance and Providence Little  Company of Mary Transitional Care Center (collectively, “LCM”) now file a  demurrer and motion to strike portions of the FAC.      B. Procedural  On October 21, 2024, LCM Demurring  Defendants, filed a demurrer and motion to strike portions of the FAC. On November  6, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. On November 14, 2024, LCM Demurring  Defendants filed a reply brief.    II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL  NOTICE                With LCM’s moving papers, they also requested this court  take judicial notice of the following document:    1.      Publication  from the United States Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the  Inspector General, Adverse Events Toolkit: Clinical Guidance for Identifying  Harm (July 2023), p. 36, which may be accessed at  https://oig.hhs.gov/oei/reports/OEI-06-21-00031.pdf. (Exhibit 1.)   The  court GRANTS this request pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision  (c) and (h) and takes judicial notice of the above document.    III. ANALYSIS     A.     Demurrer                                                i.             Legal Standard     A demurrer can be used only to challenge  defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters  outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan  (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only  allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that  might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A.  v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For  the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer  admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City  Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit  contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab  Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)  A pleading is uncertain if it is  ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer  for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders  the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to  respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d  135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed,  even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can  be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of  California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)¿¿                                               ii.             Elder Abuse  Similarly to their previous demurrer to the original complaint, LCM  Defendants demur to the FAC on the grounds they argue the first cause of action  for Elder Abuse fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action  against demurring Defendants as the facts alleged pertain to the provision of  medical services by a hospital and skilled nursing facility – not services by a  custodial caretaker. Moving Defendants also demur to the first cause of action  for Elder Abuse again on the grounds that they assert it is uncertain and not  stated with sufficient particularity against demurring Defendants. In this court’s August 23, 2024 sustaining of the previous  demurrer, the court based it s decision on the following grounds: (1) the  complaint lacked the specificity required in an Elder Abuse Act cause of action  when it failed to alleged how LCM Defendants’ understaffing amounted to  recklessness on the part of LCM Defendants; (2) although the original complaint  was more detailed than some of the precedents relied upon by LCM Defendants, it  still lacked the level of particularity needed to maintain a  cause of action for statutory elder abuse; and (3) the complaint’s failure to  plead an Elder Abuse Act violation with the requisite level of particularity  left it vulnerable to amounting to professional negligence versus the  recklessness required for a statutory elder abuse claim.  This court instructed that despite the issue being decided at the  demurrer phase, Plaintiff would be required to allege how the claimed understaffing,  and claimed failure to train, led to Plaintiff’s injuries. Since then,  Plaintiff has added more general allegations to her FAC. Much more specifically  this time, Plaintiff contends that prior to being admitted to Mary Medical, no  pressure injuries were assessed, but due to her immobility status, a skin  integrity care plan was initiated to prevent further skin breakdown. (FAC, ¶¶  14-15.) The FAC states Plaintiff’s skin integrity care plan indicated that Mary  Medical’s staff would monitor her skin at least two times daily for redness or  breakdown and report to a physician for further treatment orders in the event  of any new and/or further skin breakdown issues. (FAC, ¶ 16.) Additionally,  Plaintiff alleges her care plan required Mary Medical employees to reposition  her at least every two-hours to prevent skin breakdown. (FAC, ¶ 17.)  Plaintiff  has also addressed the court’s questions posed in its previous minute order, with  the FAC now claiming that on February 15, 2023, February 16, 2023, and February  18, 2023, Mary Medical’s staff failed to inspect her skin for breakdown as  required by her care plan. (FAC, ¶¶ 18-20.) Further, Plaintiff asserts from  February 15, 2023 through March 21, 2023, Mary Medical’s repositioning records  show Mary Medical nursing staff repositioned Plaintiff sporadically or not at  all. (FAC, ¶ 21.) Plaintiff’s FAC maintains that due to the failure of Mary  Medical and Mary Transitional staff to reposition Plaintiff at least every two  hours and to conduct skin inspections twice per shift, Plaintiff developed an  unstageable pressure injury on her sacrum. (FAC, ¶ 30.)  Looked at  under the requirements this court previously discussed in Winn v. Pioneer  Medical Group, Inc., this court finds that Plaintiff is cured the  deficiencies previously identified by this court in its prior minute order. As  noted, the Court in  Winn  explained that section 15610.57, subdivision (b)(2)’s use of the word “provide:  suggested “a care provider’s assumption of a substantial caretaking or  custodial role, as it speaks to a determination made by one with control over  an elder whether to initiate medical care at all. Read in tandem, section  15610.57, subdivisions (a)(1) and (b)(2) support the conclusion that whether a  determination that medical care should be provided is made by a health care  provider or not, it is the defendant’s relationship with an elder or a  dependent adult – not the defendant’s professional standing or expertise – that  makes the defendant potentially liable for neglect.” (Winn, supra, at  158.) Also, as previously noted, “the statutory definition of ‘neglect’ speaks  not of the undertaking of medical services, but of the failure to provide  medical care.” (Covenant Care v. Superior Court (2000) 32 Cal.4th 771.)  Here, the  additional allegations added to Plaintiff’s FAC do appear to assert that LCM  Defendants failed to provide medical care despite creating a skin integrity  care plan. Thus, the only issue remaining per the court’s previously identified  deficiencies is how Plaintiff’s FAC links LCM Defendants’ understaffing to  Plaintiff’s injury. Plaintiff has also remedied this deficiency. Plaintiff now  alleges that as a direct result of chronic understaffing at Mary Medical –  stemming from inadequate numbers and insufficient training mandated by their  managing agents – and in deliberate violation of Title 22 §§ 70214 (staff  training) and 70217 (staffing ratios), Mary Medical staff failed to provide  Plaintiff with the necessary care, including repositioning and skin  inspections, to prevent skin breakdown. The amended pleading now  asserts that due to the insufficient time and lack of knowledge among the  staff, Plaintiff’s injuries occurred because they were unable to deliver the  required care, properly document, and address her emergent conditions. (FAC, ¶  41.)              Because the court found that although Plaintiff’s  previous complaint alleged the required elements, but was previously missing  the above particularity, the court only discusses whether Plaintiff cured said  deficiencies. As noted above, Plaintiff has done so. Thus, the demurrer is  OVERRULED.  IV. CONCLUSION   For the foregoing reasons, the  LCM Defendants’ demurrer is OVERRULED.  LCM’s Answer is due within 20 days.  Plaintiff is ordered to give notice. 