  Case Number:  23TRCV02217    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 November 21, 2024   CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV02217  CASE NAME:                        Shawna  Landon Lupia v. Darren Jerome Doucette, et al.    MOVING PARTY:                Defendants,  Darren Jerome Doucette and Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation  Authority  RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,  Shawna Landon Lupia, individually and as successor in interest to Decedent,  Dylan Lupia    TRIAL DATE:                        July 21, 2025  MOTION:                              (1) Defendant’s Motion to  Compel Plaintiff’s Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents,  Set One                                                  (2)  In Camera Review of Mr. Doucette’s Personnel  Files   Tentative Rulings:                   (1) GRANT, subject to  Plaintiff’s counsel explaining how a photograph or a video could constitute an attorney-client  privileged communication, and explaining how Plaintiff’s counsel intends to  better comply with the privileged log requirements discussed below.                                                  (2)  The Court has conducted an in-camera review  of the extensive personnel files lodged by the MTA, after having reviewed the  bus videos from several different cameras at the time of the subject incident, and  has identified two documents from within the five-year period preceding the  subject accident in 2022 that the Court views as being discoverable.  The Court intends to return the personnel  files to MTA’s counsel in person at the hearing and to identify which documents  the Court has determined must be produced, subject to a protective order for  the employment records.  The incident  dates are 12/24/19 and 11/24/21 which the Court has flagged in Envelope 2 of 3.       I. BACKGROUND   A. Factual   On  July 10, 2023, Plaintiff, Shawna Landon Lupia, individually and as successor in  interest to Decedent Dylan Lupia (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against  Defendants, Darren Jerome Doucette, Los Angeles Metropolitan Transit Authority,  and DOES 1 through 50. The complaint alleges causes of action for: (1)  Negligence; and (2) Negligent Act or Omission of Public Entity or Public  Employee.      On  August 24, 2023, Los Angeles Metropolitan Transit Authority (“MTA”) propounded  its Request for Production of Documents, Set One. Specifically, RFP No. 8, at  issue in this motion, sought: “Any and all photographs allegedly depicting  Dylan Lupia’s injuries, the scene of the accident, Defendant’s vehicle, and any  other tangible evidence in any way pertaining to the subject accident.” On  November 30, 2023, MTA asserts Plaintiff responded to this request with  boilerplate general objections, many of which are not even applicable. MTA also  contends Plaintiff never produced responsive documents.    Per  the moving papers, on April 24, 2024, at the IDC, Plaintiff agreed to provide  code-compliant responses. On May 13, 2024, Plaintiff served an unverified  supplemental response, but failed to further respond to RFP No. 8, despite  agreeing to do so at the IDC. Per the moving papers, on September 9, 2024,  Plaintiff served “Supplemental Responses and Further Supplemental Responses”  along with a privilege log. Pertaining to RFP No. 8, Plaintiff maintained the  same objections, reiterated her initial response to RFP No. 8, and then  proceeded to state: “Subject to the forgoing objection based on attorney work  product, Plaintiff has no documents in her possession, custody, or control nor  is she aware of any documents responsive to this request that exist that are  not subject to the attorney work product privilege.”   On  September 23, 2024, Plaintiff served an Amended Privilege Log, indicating that  “Post August 2022” Plaintiff authored, and her attorney received, “Videos &  Photographs” responsive to RFP No. 8 which are covered by “Attorney/Client  Privilege” and “Attorney work-product.”   MTA  now brings this Motion to Compel Further responses from Plaintiff as to RFP No.  8, and requests this court order Plaintiff to comply with Code of Civil  Procedure section 2031.240 by identifying the photographs she claims are  privileged, state that a diligent search and reasonable inquiry has been made  to locate others, and state whether others ever existed and, if so, what  happened to them.    B. Procedural               On October 11, 2024, Defendants filed this Motion to  Compel Plaintiff’s Further Responses to Requests for Production of Documents,  Set One No. 8. On November 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. On  November 15, 2024, Defendants filed a reply brief.   II. ANALYSIS A.     Legal  Standard  A motion to compel further  responses to a demand for inspection or production of documents (“RFP”) may be  brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2) inadequate,  evasive, or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3) unmerited or  overly generalized objections.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310(c).) A  motion to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good  cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand. (See Code Civ.  Proc., § 2031.310(b)(1).) In Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court  (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216 at 224, the Court defined “good cause” as a showing  that there “a disputed fact that is of consequence in the action and the  discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove that fact or lead to  other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the fact.” If the  moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the burden  is on the objecting party to justify the objections. (Kirkland v. Sup.Ct  (2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) ¿  "The court shall limit the  scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness  of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought  will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence." (Cal. Code of Civ.  Proc. § 2017.020(a).) Generally, objections on the ground of burden require the  objecting party to produce evidence of (a) the propounding party's subjective  intent to create burden or (b) the amount of time and effort it would take to  respond. (See West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In  and For Los Angeles County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.) However, no such  evidence is necessary where discovery is obviously overbroad on its face. (See Obregon  v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.) B.     Discussion                                                 i.             Meet and Confer Efforts    Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, a motion  seeking to compel further responses to inspection demands must be “accompanied  by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.” (Code Civ. Proc., §  2031.310, subd. (b)(2).) Here, MTA’s attorney, Paul O’Reilly, has filed a  declaration (“O’Reilly Decl.”) which discusses his meet and confer efforts with  Plaintiff’s counsel, including participation at an IDC relating to the  discovery at issue in this motion.  The  court finds such efforts to be sufficient.                                               ii.             Motion to Compel Further  Responses   Here, MTA has brought forth an untraditional motion to compel further  responses. As noted above, Request for Production of Document, Set One No. 8  seeks: “Any and all photographs allegedly depicting Dylan Lupia’s  injuries, the scene of the accident, Defendant’s vehicle, and any other  tangible evidence in any way pertaining to the subject accident.” After back  and forth between the parties’ counsels as well as an IDC, Plaintiff’s most  recent supplemental response was: “Subject to the forgoing objection based on  attorney work product, Plaintiff has no documents in her possession, custody,  or control nor is she aware of any documents responsive to this request that  exist that are not subject to the attorney work product privilege.” Because  Plaintiff objected as to privilege, MTA argues that she must comply with Code  of Civil Procedure section 2031.240, subdivisions (b) and (c). Section  2031.240, subdivisions (b) and (c) respectively state:   (b) If the responding party objects to the demand for  inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of an item or category of item, the  response shall do both of the following: (1) Identify with particularity any  document, tangible thing, land, or electronically stored information falling  within any category of item in the demand to which an objection is being made. (2) Set forth clearly the extent of,  and the specific ground for, the objection. If an objection is  based on a claim of privilege, the particular privilege invoked shall be  stated. If an objection is based on a claim that the information sought is  protected work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section 2018.010), that  claim shall be expressly asserted. (c) (1) If an objection is based on a claim  of privilege or a claim that the information sought is protected work  product, the response shall provide sufficient factual information for  other parties to evaluate the merits of that claim, including, if necessary, a  privilege log. (2) It is the intent of the Legislature to codify  the concept of a privilege log as that term is used in California case law.  Nothing in this subdivision shall be construed to constitute a substantive  change in case law. (Code Civ. Proc., §  2031.240, subds. (b) & (c).)              Defendant  MTA argues that Plaintiff has failed to comply with Code of Civil Procedure  section 2031.240, subdivision (b) on the grounds that she failed to identify  with particularity any document, tangible thing, land, or ESI falling within  any category of item in the demand to which the privilege objection is being  made. The court agrees. Plaintiff’s latest supplement response to RFP No. 8  does not state anything with particularity. Instead, Plaintiff generally  asserts that she has “no documents in her possession, custody, or control nor  is she aware of any documents responsive to this request that exist that are  not subject to the attorney work product privilege.” The privilege log is also  lacking in particularity. The description of the items being withheld based on the  privilege objection is “Videos & Photographs,” and states the privileges  are “Attorney work-product” and/or “Attorney/Client Privilege.” Thus, Plaintiff  has failed to comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.240, subdivision  (b).  Further, the Court will be  interested in oral argument for Plaintiff’s counsel as to how a communication  privilege such as the attorney-client privilege could pertain to a photograph  or a video.  A photograph taken by  counsel or a consultant could potentially be work-product privileged, but it difficult  to understand how work product privilege could apply to a photograph taken  of  Decedents’ injuries sustained before  counsel was consulted.               As to  Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.240, subdivision (c), MTA argues Plaintiff  is in violation of its requirements on the grounds that neither her response  nor her privilege log indicate the subject matter of the photographs and/or  videos. MTA notes that Plaintiff’s attorney indicated she “will not, however,  give specific descriptions of what was photographed or taped as that would give  away counsel’s thought process as to theories and strategy.” (O’Reilly Decl., ¶  6, Exhibit E.) Clearly, Plaintiff has not provided “sufficient factual  information for [MTA] to evaluate the merits of that” privileged work-product  objection as required by Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.240, subdivision  (c). The Court is inclined to agree with MTA for the same reasons as the Court  noted above, so the Court seeks argument by Plaintiff’s counsel bearing on the  Court’s questions about the scope of the privilege log.              In  opposition, Plaintiff asserts that because of her objection and subsequent  privilege log as it pertains to RFP No. 8, it should be clear that the  documents withheld based on privilege “necessarily must be ‘photographs  allegedly depicting Dylan Lupia’s injuries, the scene of the accident,  Defendant’s vehicle, and any other tangible evidence in any way pertaining to  the subject accident.’” Again, because Plaintiff has not complied with the  above code sections, it is uncertain which category of photographs or videos  Plaintiff has in her possession as it relates to Decedent’s injuries, the scene  of the accident, Defendant’s vehicle, or other tangible evidence pertaining to  the subject accident.  For example,  accident photographs of a public bus on a public road generally would not be  attorney-client privileged because they are not a communication, and the Court  is uncertain by the vague description given by Plaintiff’s log as to how such  materials may be privileged based on the work product doctrine either. As noted  by MTA, only Plaintiff knows if she is withholding unprivileged  pictures of “Defendant’s vehicle” or a  privileged videotaped attorney-client discussion.              Lastly,  the court also notes that Plaintiff’s supplemental response does not comply  with Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.230.              The  court requires oral argument from the Plaintiff’s counsel at trial as to how  she intends to comply with the code section violations as her opposition does  not do so.   