 Case Number:  24STCV12852    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



RAMON ARIAS MORENO, an individual, 
 
Plaintiff,
  
         vs.
 
HAMIDEH MOAYEDPARDAZI, M.D., an individual; DE LA
  PENA EYE CLINIC, A MEDICAL GROUP, INC., a California Corporation; MED-LASER
  SURGICAL CENTER, LLC, a California Limited Liability Company; and DOES 1-50,
  Inclusive, 
 
Defendants.


 Case No.: 24STCV12852
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: November 8, 2024




 
            The Court SUSTAINS
the Demurrer to the second and third causes of action with leave to amend. 
 
            The
Motion to Strike is MOOT. 
 
Background 
 
This
is a medical malpractice action. On May 21, 2024, Plaintiff Ramon Arias Moreno
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Hamideh Moayedpardazi, M.D.
(“Dr. Moayedpardazi”), De La Pena Eye Clinic (“DLP”), A Medical Group, Inc.,
and Med-Laser Surgical Center, LLC (“Med-Laser” or “Defendant”) (collectively,
“Defendants”). The Complaint alleges, on January 9, 2023, Plaintiff underwent
an examination at DLP, and it was determined that Plaintiff should undergo a selective
laser trabeculoplasty on his left eye, with a follow-up procedure on his right
eye a few weeks after the initial procedure. On February 23, 2023, Plaintiff
arrived at Med-Laser for the procedure and underwent pre-operative protocols
for his left eye. After Plaintiff was cleared for surgery, Dr. Moayedpardazi
allegedly began operating on Plaintiff’s right eye, and because it was not
prepped, Plaintiff experienced sharp pain. The Complaint alleges the following
causes of action against all Defendants: 1) Professional Negligence, 2) Medical
Battery, and 3) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (IIED).
 
On
September 20, 2024, Defendant Med-Laser filed this Demurrer to the second cause
of action for battery and the third cause of action for IIED on the basis they
fail to allege facts sufficient to state a claim. Defendant also filed the
Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s prayer for punitive damages sought in connection
to the second and third causes of action. 
 
On
October 28, 2024 Plaintiff filed the oppositions.
 
On
October 31, 2024, Defendant filed the replies. 
 
Legal Standard
 
i.                   
Demurrer 
 
As a
general matter, in a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the
face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury
Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants,
Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court
assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  
  
Where
a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a
reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976)
18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a
pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.; Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015)
244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f there is any reasonable possibility
that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action, it is error to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist. (1969)
70 Cal.2d 240, 245) 
 
ii.                
Motion to Strike
 
The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).) The court may also strike all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for
a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false, or improper
matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws. (Id. § 436.)
The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by
way of judicial notice. (Id. § 437.)
 
Discussion 
 
A.   
Meet and Confer
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), and section 435.5,
subdivision (a), require meeting and conferring “in person or by telephone.” On
September 9, 2024, Defendant’s counsel sent a meet and confer correspondence to
Plaintiff’s counsel explaining the Complaint’s defects and to discuss
Defendant’s contemplated Demurrer and Motion to Strike. (Lee Decl., ¶ 3, Exh.
B.) Defendant’s counsel received a voicemail from Plaintiff’s counsel. (Lee
Decl., ¶ 4.) Defendant’s counsel emailed three times requesting a return call,
but Plaintiff’s counsel never responded. (Id.) The Court finds the meet
and confer requirement has not been met because the parties never communicated in
person or by telephone. Nevertheless, in the interest of judicial efficiency,
the Court exercises its discretion to consider the merits of Defendant’s
demurrer, but it notes that subsequent failures to comply with statutory
obligations may result in a continuance of the hearing on the subject
motion. 
 
B.   
Demurrer
 
i.                   
Second Cause of
Action – Medical Battery
 
“A
typical medical battery case is where a patient has consented to a particular
treatment, but the doctor performs a treatment that goes beyond the consent. ‘When
an action is based upon the theory of surgery beyond consent, the gist of such
action is the unwarranted exceeding of the consent.’ For example. . .
the patient consents to an operation on
his right ear, but the doctor operates on the left ear. ” (Conte v.
Girard Orthopaedic Surgeons Medical Group, Inc. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th
1260, 1267 (citations omitted).)
 
Defendant
argues Plaintiff consented to the pre-operative treatment procedures by
Defendant for treatment to his left eye. Defendant argues that there are no
allegations that any member of Defendant’s staff touched Plaintiff’s right eye
or that any harm resulted from the pre-operative treatment. Plaintiff argues in
opposition that all Defendants contributed to medical battery when they
only performed pre-operative treatment on his left eye and performed surgery on
his right eye. Defendant argues in response that Plaintiff conflates all
allegations of medical battery against all named defendants without explaining
how Defendant Med-Laser specifically contributed to medical battery. 
 
The
Court agrees with Defendant. Plaintiff consented to receiving treatment to his
left eye on January 9, 2023. (Compl., ¿ 13.) On February 23, 2023, Plaintiff
arrived at  Defendant’s office, received
pre-operative treatment, and was cleared for the procedure. (Compl., ¿ 14.) The
Complaint contains no allegations that Defendant’s staff performed a nonconsensual
procedure on Plaintiff. The Complaint only alleges that Defendant failed to
obtain informed consent for surgery on the right eye and failed to prep the
right eye for surgery. (Compl., ¿ 30-31.) The Court finds that these allegations
do not arise to medical battery—Defendant prepped the correct eye for
treatment, which was within the scope of Plaintiff’s consent. Further, the
allegations of a nonconsensual touching are aimed at Dr. Moayedpardazi: “Defendant
Dr. MOAYEDPARDAZI intentionally performed a medical procedure on Plaintiff
MORENO without his consent.” (Compl., ¿ 30.) But the Complaint does not allege that
Defendant was vicariously liable for Dr. Moayedpardazi’s conduct. The Court
thus finds that the Complaint fails to allege facts to state claim for medical
battery as to this Defendant. 
 
The
Court sustains the Demurrer to the second cause of action with leave to amend.
 
ii.                
Third Cause of
Action – IIED
 
“The
elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of
emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant
with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme
emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must
be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009, citation
and ellipses omitted.) 
 
Defendant
argues Plaintiff fails to state a claim for IIED against it. The Complaint
alleges that, following the procedure on the incorrect eye, Plaintiff “tried to
communicate his distress to the nurse (hereinafter referred to as Defendant
“Doe I”) who had initially marked his left eye and administered the numbing
drops. Unfortunately, Doe I also left the room following Defendant Dr.
MOAYEDPARDAZI, disregarding Plaintiff MORENO's pleas for assistance.” (Compl.,
¿ 16.) Defendant argues the nurse’s actions neither arises to extreme or
outrageous conduct nor evidences an intent to cause emotional harm. Defendant
argues the Complaint fails to allege that the nurse even knew of the alleged
mistake. Plaintiff argues in opposition that all Defendants intentionally
inflicted emotional distress through their conduct. In response, Defendant
argues Plaintiff fails to distinguish Med-Laser’s conduct from the other two
defendants. Further, Plaintiff’s argument that the nurse’s failure to prep the
right eye does not arise to extreme and outrageous conduct because the nurse
was acting within the scope of Plaintiff’s consent. 
 
The
Court finds that the Complaint fails to allege facts sufficient to state a claim
for IIED. IIED claims usually involve intentional offensive touching or harsh
words. (See Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, 1 Cal. Med. Malprac.
L. & Prac. § 10:6 (2024 ed.).) The Court finds that the nurse’s act of
merely ignoring Plaintiff does not arise to such extreme and outrageous conduct.
Further, as with the second cause of action, the Complaint neither alleges that
Defendant may be vicariously liable for Dr. Moayedpardazi’s conduct. 
 
The
Court sustains the Demurrer to the third cause of action with leave to
amend.  
 
C.   
Motion to Strike
 
Because
the second and third causes of action were sustained, the Motion to Strike
punitive damages sought in connection with those causes of action is moot. 
 
Conclusion
 
The Court SUSTAINS the Demurrer to the second and
third causes of action with leave to amend. 
 
            The Motion to Strike is MOOT. 
 
Dated:  November      , 2024
                                                                                                                                                
Hon. Jon R. Takasugi
Judge of the Superior Court
 