 Case Number:  24VECV03989    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
NORTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Kamran
  Dehdashtinejad,
 
Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Lurie Physical
  Therapy, P.C., et al.,
 
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
    
  24VECV03989                      107




 
 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
  
Demurrer Without
  Motion to Strike
 



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]:

 
Defendant
Lurie Physical Therapy, P.C. demurs to the complaint brought by Plaintiff
Kamran Dehdashtinejad.
 
This
court overrules the demurrer.
 
I.               
BACKGROUND¿ 
 
Plaintiff
Kamran Dehdashtinejad (“Plaintiff”) was injured when a Suspension Body Fitness
Trainer Strap (“G-Strap”) at a premises located at 7320 Woodlake Avenue, Suite
200, West Hills, CA 91307 (the “Premises”) “failed, tore, ripped, pulled apart,
broke and/or ruptured.” (Complaint ¶¶ 7, 13-14.) On August 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
complaint against Defendants Lurie Physical Therapy, P.C. dba Balance and
Vestibular Center, Saskia Anna Van Ommeren Egberts, and Does 1 through 25,
alleging causes of action for premises liability and negligence.
 
On September 12, 2024,
Defendant Saskia Anna Van Ommeren Egberts demurred to Plaintiff’s complaint. On October 22, 2024,
this court overruled the demurrer. (10/22/24 Minute Order p. 7.)
 
On October 16, 2024, Defendant Lurie Physical Therapy, P.C.
(“Defendant”) demurred to Plaintiff’s complaint. On October 30, 2024, Plaintiff
filed an opposition. On November 5, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.
II.            
JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendant requests this court take judicial notice of the
following exhibits:

Defendant’s Articles of Incorporation
     filed with the California Secretary of State (Ex. A.)
Defendant’s Statement of Information for
     the years ending in 2022 and 2024. (Ex. B.)
Defendant Joshua Lurie’s licensing
     information from the Physical Therapy Board of California. (Ex. C.)
Defendant Saskia Van Ommeren-Egberts’
     licensing information from the Physical Therapy Board of California. (Ex.
     D.)
“Notice of Authorization Services” dated
     June 22, 2023, issued by Lakeside Community Healthcare, by Dr. Daniel
     Ahoubim. (Ex. E.)
“Notice of Authorization of Services”
     dated August 2, 2023, issued by Lakeside Community Healthcare by Dr.
     Daniel Ahoubim. (Ex. F.)

Defendant cites Evidence Code section 452, subsections (d),
(g), and (h). (Request for Judicial Notice pp. 1-2.)
 
Plaintiff objects to Defendant’s requests for judicial
notice, arguing the court should not take judicial notice of unauthenticated
documents prepared by private parties, unauthenticated website printouts from
licensing agencies, or Plaintiff’s unauthenticated medical records.
(Plaintiff’s Objections to Defendant’s Request for Judicial Notice p. 2.) 
 
Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d) permits the
court to take judicial notice of “Records of (1)
any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of
any state of the United States.” Evidence code section 452, subdivision (g)
permits the court to take judicial notice of “Facts and propositions that are
of such common knowledge within the territorial jurisdiction of the court that
they cannot reasonably be the subject of dispute.” Evidence Code section 452,
subdivision (h) permits the court to take judicial notice of “Facts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” 
 
None of these exhibits are court records.
Thus, Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d) does not apply.
“Subdivision
(c) of Evidence code section 452 authorizes the taking of judicial notice of
‘official acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the
United States and of any state of the United States.’” (People v. Thacker (1985)
175 Cal.App.3d 594, 597.)  “However, to
be judicially noticed pursuant to subdivision (c) the matter must meet the test
of an official act.” (Id. at p. 598.) In People v. Thacker,
the court stated “We have found no authority and none has been cited for the
proposition that materials prepared by private parties and merely on file with
state agencies may be judicially noticed pursuant to subdivision (c). (Id.)

 
The
documents in Exhibits A and B appear to be materials prepared by private
parties and filed with the California Secretary of State. Accordingly, the
documents are not official acts under Evidence Code section 452, subdivision
(c). Nor are the documents matters of common knowledge or not reasonably
subject to dispute. (See Evid. Code § 452(g), (h).) Accordingly, this court
denies Defendant’s request to take judicial notice of Defendant’s Articles of
Incorporation and Statement of Information.
 
The court may take judicial notice of a
license issued by a state agency under Evidence Code section 452, subdivision
(c), “which permits judicial notice of ‘official acts of . . . executive . . .
departments . . . of any state of the United States.” (Arroyo v. Plosay (2014)
225 Cal.App.4th 279, 296 [stating a “Hospital’s license issued by the State
Department of Public Health was properly subject to judicial notice under
Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (c)[.]”].) Accordingly, this court
grants Defendant’s request and takes judicial notice of Joshua Lurie’s and
Saskia Van Ommeren-Egberts’ licensing information from the Physical Therapy
Board of California.
 
The Notices of Authorization do not fall
under any of the categories listed in Evidence Code section 452. As relevant
here, they are not common knowledge, nor are they not reasonably subject to
dispute. (See Evid. Code § 452(g), (h).) Accordingly, this court
denies Defendant’s request to take judicial notice of the Notices of
Authorization.
 
III.          
PROCEDURAL
REQUIREMENTS
 

Timeliness

“A person against
whom a complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may, within 30 days after
service of the complaint or cross-complaint, demur to the complaint or
cross-complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.40(a).)
 
Plaintiff submitted an acknowledgment of
receipt showing Defendant’s counsel acknowledged receipt of the summons and complaint
on September 16, 2024. (Notice and Acknowledgement of Receipt filed 09/17/24.)
Defendant filed this demurrer on October 16, 2024. Accordingly, Defendant’s
demurrer is timely.

Meet and Confer

California Code of Civil
Procedure §¿430.41, subdivision (a) requires parties to “meet and confer” in
good faith before the filing of a demurrer to attempt to informally resolve the
objections raised in the demurrer.¿The demurring party is required to file and
serve with the demurrer a declaration either confirming that parties were
unable to resolve the issues raised by the demurrer despite having met and
conferred or that the opposing party failed to meet and confer with the
demurring party in good faith. (Code Civ. Proc. §¿430.41(a)(3).)
 
Defendant’s
counsel submits a declaration stating “[c]ounsel for the parties
met-and-conferred telephonically but were unable to reach an agreement.” (Chen
Declaration ¶ 7.)
 
This
court finds that Defendant has satisfied the meet and confer requirement.
 
IV.          
LEGAL
STANDARD¿ 
¿¿¿ 
As a general matter, in
a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading
or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the
evidence or the facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc.
Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the
truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 745.)¿A complaint is sufficient if it contains “[a]¿statement¿of
the¿facts¿constituting the cause of action, in ordinary and concise language.”
(Code Civ. Proc. §¿425.10(a)(1).) Under this standard, a “complaint ordinarily
is sufficient if it alleges ultimate rather than evidentiary facts.” (Doe v.
City of Los Angeles (2007) 42 Cal.4th 531, 550.)
 
A party may demur to a
complaint because the complaint “does not state facts sufficient to constitute
a cause of action.” (Code
Civ. Proc., §
430.10(e).) 
 
V.             
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant
argues Plaintiff’s complaint fails to state causes of action for premises
liability and negligence because the complaint is subject to the Medical Injury
Compensation Reform Act (“MICRA”). (Demurrer p. 7.) Defendant further argues
that “Plaintiff attempts to evade MICRA by bringing this suit under the cause
of action of ordinary negligence and premises liability rather than
professional negligence.” (Demurrer p. 7.)
 
MICRA
applies to “action[s] for injury or death against a health care provider based
upon such person’s alleged professional negligence[.]” (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.5; Flores
v. Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital (2016) 63 Cal.4th 75, 81.) “Health
care provider” is defined as “ any person licensed or certified pursuant
to Division 2 (commencing with Section 500) of the Business and
Professions Code, or licensed pursuant to the Osteopathic Initiative
Act, or the Chiropractic Initiative Act, or licensed pursuant to Chapter 2.5
(commencing with Section 1440) of Division 2 of the
Health and Safety Code; and any clinic, health dispensary, or health facility,
licensed pursuant to Division 2 (commencing with Section 1200) of
the Health and Safety Code” and “includes the legal representatives of a
health care provider”. (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.5(1).) Physical therapists are
licensed pursuant to Division 2 of the Business and Professions Code. (See Bus.
& Prof. Code § 2620.) 
 
“Professional
negligence” has four elements: “(1) ‘a negligent act or omission to act by a
health care provider in the rendering of professional services,’ (2) ‘which act
or omission is the proximate cause of injury or wrongful death,’ (3) ‘provided
that such services are within the scope of services for which the provider is
licensed,’ and (4) ‘which are not within any restriction imposed by the
licensing agency or licensed hospital.’” (Flores v. Presbyterian
Intercommunity Hospital, supra, 63 Cal.4th at p. 84.)
 
Claims brought against
health care providers based upon the provider’s alleged professional negligence
are governed by a different statute of limitations than other personal injury
claims. (Flores v. Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital, supra, 63
Cal.4th at p. 79.)  “In an action for injury or death against a health
care provider based upon such person's alleged professional negligence, the
time for the commencement of action shall be three years after the date of
injury or one year after the plaintiff discovers, or through the use of
reasonable diligence should have discovered, the injury, whichever occurs
first.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 340.5.)
 
In Flores v.
Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital, supra, 63 Cal.4th at p. 79, a patient
was injured when the hospital bed’s rail collapsed. Plaintiff sued the
hospital, alleging it negligently failed to inspect and maintain the equipment.
(Id.) The hospital demurred to Plaintiff’s complaint, arguing it was
barred by section 340.5’s statute of limitations. (Id. at p. 80.) The
trial court agreed with the hospital and sustained the demurrer without leave
to amend. (Id.) The Court of Appeal stated that “whether negligence in
maintaining hospital equipment or premises qualifies as professional negligence
depends on the nature of the relationship between the equipment or premises in
question and the provision of medical care to the plaintiff.” (Id. at p.
88.) And “if the act or omission that led to the plaintiff's injuries was
negligence in the maintenance of equipment that, under the prevailing standard
of care, was reasonably required to treat or accommodate a physical or mental
condition of the patient, the plaintiff's claim is one of professional
negligence under section 340.5. But section 340.5 does not extend to negligence in the
maintenance of equipment and premises that are merely convenient for, or
incidental to, the provision of medical care to a patient.” (Id. at p.
88.) The patient alleged in the complaint that “she was injured when the latch
on the rail on her hospital bed malfunctioned” and the hospital “negligently
failed to discover or repair the malfunctioning latch and negligently failed to
warn her that it was not working properly.” (Id. at p. 89.) The Court
also considered factual concessions in the patient’s brief and oral argument,
where the patient explained the doctor “made a ‘medical decision’ to order that
the rails on her bed be raised, that this order followed from a ‘medical
assessment’ of her condition, and she was thereafter injured when, ‘while
grasping [the] rail and attempting to exit the bed, the siderail collapsed
causing Plaintiff to fall to the floor and injure herself.” (Id.) The
Court stated that, in essence, the patient was alleging that the hospital
“failed to properly implement the doctor’s order, which was based on a medical
assessment of her condition, that the rails on her bed be raised.” (Id.)
The Court of Appeal held that the negligent act or omission occurred “in the
rendering of professional services” and Plaintiff’s claim was barred by the
statute of limitations because the patient filed the complaint more than one
year after the patient discovered the injury. (Id. at pp. 79-80, 89.) 
 
In contrast, in Johnson
v. Open Door Community Health Centers (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 153, 156, a
patient was injured when she tripped on a scale on her way out of the treatment
room. The patient filed a complaint almost two years later. (Id.) The
defendant sought summary judgment, arguing the patient’s complaint was barred
by MICRA’s one-year statute of limitations. (Id.) The trial court agreed
with the defendant. (Id. at pp. 156-157.) On appeal, the Court
distinguished Johnson from Flores, noting that the Flores patient
was “injured during the provision of medical care, through the breach of a duty
owed only to patients” while the patient in Johnson “was injured after
her care was completed, allegedly as a result of a breach of duties owed
generally to all visitors to the . . . Clinic.” (Id. at p. 160.) The
patient did not allege the defendant’s failure to maintain the scale affected
the quality of her medical treatment, that improper placement of the scale
caused her to fall off and injure herself, or that defendant failed to properly
calibrate the scale. (Id.) Instead, Plaintiff alleged the scale posed a
tripping hazard, “implicating [defendant’s] duty to all users of its
facility, including patients, employees, and other invitees, to maintain safe
premises.” (Id.) The Court of Appeal held MICRA’s one-year statute of
limitations did not apply and reversed the trial court’s ruling. (Id. at
pp. 160-162.)
 
Defendant argues this
case is like Flores because “there should be no dispute that Plaintiff
was undergoing care pursuant to a prescription from a medical care provider”,
“there should be no dispute that Plaintiff was receiving care from a licensed
physical therapist at the time of the incident” and “[t]he incident arose out
of the provision of medical services prescribed by a medical physician –
specifically the G-strap snapped while Plaintiff was undergoing prescribed
care.” (Demurrer p. 9.) 
 
In a demurrer
proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via
proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co., supra, 116
Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) Plaintiff alleges Defendants “designed manufactured, produced, assembled,
distributed, constructed, tested, inspected, controlled, fabricated, analyzed,
recommended, merchandised, advertised, promoted, serviced, repaired, maintained
packaged, marketed, sold and/or installed certain EQUIPMENT at the PREMISES,
including but not limited to the ‘G-STRAP’ and offered the same for use to
their business invitees, clientele and/or other authorized members of the
general public.” (Complaint ¶ 8.) Plaintiff further alleges they were using the G-Strap
with Defendants’ consent, permission, or direction and Defendants “intended
that said PREMISES and/or EQUIPMENT, including the G-STRAP, be used by their
business invitees, clientele and/or other authorized members of the general
public and each of them knew that said EQUIPMENT, including the G-STRAP, would
be used by their business invitees, clientele and/or other authorized members
of the general public.” (Complaint ¶¶ 9, 12.) 
 
Unlike Flores,
Plaintiff does not allege in the complaint that the injury occurred because
Defendants made a medical decision to treat Plaintiff with the G-Strap or that
the G-Strap was used as part of a medical assessment of Plaintiff’s condition.
 
Accordingly, this court
is unable to conclude – based on the face of the complaint – that Plaintiff’s
cause of action arises from “a negligent act or omission to act by a health
care provider in the rendering of professional services.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
340.5(2).)
 
Moreover,
assuming MICRA applies, Plaintiff’s complaint is not barred by the statute of
limitations. In Flores and Johnson, the patients filed their
complaints more than a year after the patients discovered their injuries. (Flores v.
Presbyterian Intercommunity Hospital, supra, 63 Cal.4th at pp. 79-80; Johnson
v. Open Door Community Health Centers, supra, 15 Cal.App.5th at p.
156.) Thus, if MICRA applied, the patients’ complaints in those cases were
barred by section 340.5’s one-year statute of limitations. (See Code
Civ. Proc., §
340.5.)
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges the incident
occurred on August 30, 2023. (Complaint ¶¶ 14, 20.) Plaintiff filed the complaint on
August 21, 2024. So, Plaintiff filed the complaint within section 340.5’s
one-year statute of limitations.
 
Defendant also cites
MICRA’s notice requirement. Code of Civil Procedure section 364, subdivision
(a) states that “No action based upon the health care provider's professional
negligence may be commenced unless the defendant has been given at least 90 days'
prior notice of the intention to commence the action.” However, Code of Civil
Procedure section 365 states that “Failure to comply with this chapter shall
not invalidate any proceedings of any court of this state, nor shall it affect
the jurisdiction of the court to render a judgment therein. However, failure to
comply with such provisions by any attorney at law shall be grounds for
professional discipline . . . ” Accordingly, assuming Plaintiff was required
to, but did not, give Defendant ninety days’ notice,  Plaintiff’s failure to give notice does
not  prevent this court from rendering a
judgment in this case.
 
Plaintiff alleges in the
complaint that they are seeking “general/noneconomic
damages in excess of any limits under Civil Code section 3333.2 pursuant
to Johnson v. Open Door Community Health Centers, 15 21 Cal. App. 5th
153 (Cal. Ct. App. 2017).” (Complaint ¶ 22.) Code of Civil Procedure section 3333.2
imposes limitations on noneconomic damages in actions for injuries “against a
health care provider or health care institution based on professional
negligence.” Accordingly, although it is unclear from the face of the
complaint, if this court finds at a later date that Plaintiff’s causes of
action arise from “a negligent act or omission to act by a health care provider
in the rendering of professional services” then Plaintiff’s damages may be
limited by section 3333.2. (Code Civ. Proc., § 3333.2(j)(4).)
 
VI.          
CONCLUSION 
 
For
the foregoing reasons, this court overrules Defendant’s demurrer.
 
Dated:              November 13, 2024                                                _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                              Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                        Judge of the Superior Court