 Case Number:  23STCV07188    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  78 Superior Court of CaliforniaCounty of Los AngelesDepartment 78FULLHOUSE TRADING, INC.,Plaintiff,          vs.EGREEN TRANSPORT CORPORATION, et al.,Defendants. Case No.: 23STCV07188 Hearing Date: September 26, 2023 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: EGREEN TRANSPORT’S MOTIONS TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT AND CHANGE VENUE   The motion to set aside the defaults is granted.When two California superior courts have concurrent jurisdiction over the subject matter and all parties involved in the litigation, the first court to assume jurisdiction has exclusive jurisdiction over the subject matters and parties until all necessarily related matters have been resolved. (Lofton v Wells Fargo Home Mortgage (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 1050, 1062.) Service of the summons is the action that confers jurisdiction. (Williams v Superior Court (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 36, 53-54.).“The rule of exclusive concurrent jurisdiction is a judicial rule of priority or preference and does not divest a court, which otherwise has jurisdiction of an action, of jurisdiction.” (People ex rel. Garamendi v. American Autoplan, Inc. (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 760, 769.) A party wishing to raise the rule of exclusive concurrent jurisdiction must request affirmative relief by an appropriate pleading or motion. (Id at p.744.) Code Civ. Pro. section 415.20 provides that “[i]f a copy of the summons and complaint cannot with reasonable diligence be personally delivered to the person to be served . . . a summons may be served by leaving a copy of the summons and complaint at the person’s dwelling house, usual place of abode, usual place of business, or usual mailing address . . . in the presence of a competent member of the household . . . at least 18 years of age, who shall be informed of the contents thereof, and by thereafter mailing a copy of the summons and of the complaint by first-class mail . . . .” (Code Civ. Proc., section 415.20(b).) Service of a summons in this matter is deemed complete on the 10th day after the mailing. (Id.)Here, Plaintiff’s proof of service filed May 10, 2023 shows Plaintiff served the summons on Defendants via substituted service on April 24, 2023. Service was therefore deemed completed on May 4, 2023. Defendants failed to provide evidence of when the summons in the San Bernardino case was served on Plaintiff. Thus, the Court does not have sufficient information to determine which case was served first. The parties are ordered to appear at the hearing (remotely or in person) prepared to discuss the date that service was completed in the San Bernardino case.However, in any event, the Court will grant the motion to change venue.Code Civ. Proc., Section 397 provides, in pertinent part, as follows: “[t]he court may, on motion, change the place of trial in the following cases…(a) when the court designated in the complaint is not the proper court” or when “(c) when the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice would be promoted by the change.”Defendants move to change venue on the grounds that the parties agreed that the proper venue would be San Bernardino County in the subject lease agreement. Defendants provide the lease agreement, which states that “in any action to enforce any part or all of this Contract, all parties agree jurisdiction and venue shall be in the Superior Court, San Bernardino County, California.” (Motion to Change Venue, Exh. 1.)Here Plaintiff (a corporation) has sued one two corporate defendants, Egreen Transport Corporation and Mayrock Incorporated, as well as three individual defendants.  In actions based on a contract involving individual defendants, venue is generally proper where (1) the contract is to be performed, (2) the contract was entered, and (3) where any defendant resides at the commencement of the action. (Code Civ. Proc., 395(a).)  In actions involving a corporate defendant, venue is proper (1) where the contract was made, (2) where the contract is to be performed; (3) whether the obligation or liability arises or the breach occurs; and (4) where the principal place of business of the corporation is located. (Code Civ. Proc. 395.5.)  Venue selection clauses are valid to the extent they are consistent with Code Civ. Proc., section 395. (Battaglia Enterprises, Inc. v. Superior Court of San Diego County (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 309.) Here, San Bernardino Count is a proper venue because the contract was entered into and to be performed in Ontario, where the subject warehouse is located. (Compl. ¶9.) The Court takes judicial notice of the fact that the city of Ontario is located in San Bernardino County. Because San Bernardino is a proper venue, the venue selection clause in the parties’ contract is valid. DATED: September 26, 2023______________________________Hon. Jill FeeneyJudge of the Superior Court