 Case Number:  22STCV34586    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  32 
 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV34586




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  for Terminating Sanctions   




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Rachel Carter and Andre
  Carter 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
Defendants
Rachel Carter and Andre Carter (“Defendants”) move
for terminating sanctions against Plaintiff Angelica Rodriguez (“Plaintiff”) for
failure to comply with the Court’s May 3, 2024 discovery order. No opposition
has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“To
the extent authorized by the chapter governing any particular discovery method
or any other provision of this title, the court, after notice to any affected
party, person, or attorney, and after opportunity for hearing, may
impose…sanctions against anyone engaging in conduct that is a misuse of the
discovery process.” (Code Civ. Proc. section 2023.030.) The court may impose a
terminating sanction for misuse of the discovery process by any of the
following: “(1) An order striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings
of any party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process; (2) An order
staying further proceedings by that party until an order for discovery is
obeyed; (3) An order dismissing the action, or any part of the action, of that
party; (4) An order rendering a judgment by default against that party.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(d).)  Failing to
respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery, or
disobeying
a court order to provide discovery, constitutes a
misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d), (g).)

 
“The trial court may order a terminating sanction for discovery abuse
‘after considering the totality of the circumstances: [the] conduct of the
party to determine if the actions were willful; the detriment to the
propounding party; and the number of formal and informal attempts to obtain the
discovery.’” (Los Defensores, Inc. v. Gomez (2014) 223 Cal. App. 4th 377, 390,
quoting Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77 Cal. App. 4th 1225, 1246.)   
 
“Generally, ‘[a] decision to order terminating sanctions should not be
made lightly.  But where a violation is
willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less
severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the
trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.’” (Los Defensores,
supra, 223 Cal. App. 4th at p. 390 [citation omitted].)    
 
“Under this standard, trial courts have properly imposed terminating
sanctions when parties have willfully disobeyed one or more discovery orders.”
(Los Defensores, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at p. 390 citing Lang, supra, 77
Cal.App.4th at pp. 1244-1246 [discussing cases]; see, e.g., Collisson &
Kaplan v. Hartunian (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1617-1622 [terminating
sanctions imposed (by striking the defendant’s Answer and subsequently granting
default judgment) after defendants failed to comply with one court order to
produce discovery]; Laguna Auto Body v. Farmers Ins. Exchange (1991) 231
Cal.App.3d 481, 491, disapproved on other grounds in Garcia v. McCutchen (1997)
16 Cal.4th 469, 478, n. 4 [terminating sanctions imposed against the plaintiff
for failing to comply with a discovery order and for violating various
discovery statutes].)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
On
October 30, 2023, Defendants served Demand for Production of Documents, Set
One, Specially Prepared Interrogatories, Set One, and Form Interrogatories, Set
One, on Plaintiff. (Kothary Decl. ¶ 2.) 
 
On May 3, 2024, the Court granted Defendants’ unopposed motions to
compel Plaintiff’s written discovery responses. Counsel for Plaintiff did not
appear at the hearing. The Court ordered Plaintiff to serve verified responses,
without objections, within 20 days. The Court further granted monetary
sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel of record, jointly and severally,
in the amount of $718.50. The monetary sanctions were due within 30 days. On
May 8, 2024, Defendants served electronic notice of the order on Plaintiff’s
counsel. 
 
Defendants filed the instant motion on June 10, 2024, arguing that
Plaintiff has not complied with the Court’s order by serving the discovery or
paying the sanctions. (Kothary Decl. ¶ 5.) 
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff has not complied with the May 3, 2024
order. Plaintiff also has failed to respond to discovery that was served in
October 2023, over eight months ago. Plaintiff does not oppose this motion and
therefore fails to set forth reasons for the discovery abuse. Additionally, it
does not appear that lesser sanctions would induce compliance. Accordingly, the
Court grants the motion.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Therefore, Defendants’ motion for terminating sanctions is GRANTED. The
complaint as to Defendants Rachel Carter and Andre Carter is dismissed without
prejudice. As the only remaining defendants are unnamed Doe defendants, the
Court dismisses the entirety of the complaint. All dates are advanced and
vacated.
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 