  Case Number:  20STCV36314    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV36314




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Jezreel Patricia Decohen




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the petition
filed on July 1, 2024 by Petitioner Jezreel Patricia Decohen (Petitioner) on
behalf of Claimant Binti-Michal Decohen-Miller, age 6. The Court denies the petition without prejudice for the
following reasons: 
 
Petitioner must use the most updated MC-350, 351, 355
forms (Rev. Jan. 1, 2021) in future petitions. Note: the item/attachment
numbers in this order may vary from the numbers in the updated forms. 
 
Claimant was injured after a foldable security gate at a
store fell on her hand. Petitioner contends Claimant has recovered completely
and there are no permanent injuries. However, this is contradicted in item 6: “As
a result, Claimant suffered severe and permanent injuries.” Item 6 also states
that the gate landed on Claimant’s right hand and fingers, however item 7 only
asserts injuries to the left-hand fingers. The medical records in attachment 8
show that Claimant suffered from injuries to her right hand. Petitioner must
correct these inconsistencies. 
 
Petitioner must provide attachment 12b(6) describing reasons
for the apportionment between Claimant’s and Marcus Miller’s settlements. 
 
Petitioner requests $48,333.33 in attorney fees which represents
33.33% of the gross settlement.
The attorney declaration in attachment 14a must be
signed.  
 
Petitioner must include in attachment 15, a declaration
attesting to the medical expenses paid for and the amounts incurred. The
declaration must also contain exhibits with proof of the medical expenses and
payments made, totaling $4,084.82. 
 
Petitioner must include the medical expenses she seeks to
get reimbursed in item 17b instead of 17d. 
 
It appears Petitioner’s attorney is representing another
plaintiff in this matter. Item 18e and the applicable attachment must be
provided. 
 
Petitioner must provide attachment 19b(2).
 
In the proposed order (MC-351), item 7c(1)(b) appears to
improperly include the medical liens. Also, the Medi-Cal lien is not reflected
in the order. If Petitioner did not pay this, then the Medi-Cal lien must be
reflected in 7c(1)(c). 
 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 