 Case Number:  22STCV03947    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


July
  10, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV03947




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Expedited Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Sandra Zuleyma Gramajo Cifuentes
  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the expedited
petition filed June 24, 2024 by Petitioner Sandra Zuleyma Gramajo Cifuentes (Petitioner)
on behalf of Claimant Angel David Barrios, age 5
(Claimant). The Court grants
the petition.
 
In attachment 12, Petitioner states the settlements to
other plaintiffs were not apportioned based on special damages and that subsections
12b(4) and 12b(5) do not apply. Nevertheless, Petitioner provides the medical
specials and settlement amount for each other plaintiff. The varying special
damages appear to relate to the settlement amounts. Claimant has $0 in medical
specials. 
 
Petitioner has cured all other defects identified in the
previous petition. (Min. Order, 5/20/24.) 
 
Moving party is ordered to give
notice.
 
 
 