 Case Number:  24VECV02842    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  W tavita v. Millbrae care center, llc   Motion to Transfer venue and request for sanctions   Date of Hearing:          November 14, 2024                Trial Date:       N/A       Department:               W                                             Case  No.:         24VECV02842   Moving Party:              Defendant Millbrae Care Center, LLC  Responding Party:       Plaintiff Richard Tavita    BACKGROUND   This is an action for dependent adult  abuse by a long-term healthcare facility. On June 17, 2024, Plaintiff Richard  Tavita (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant Millbrae Care Center  (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 200. The Complaint alleges Plaintiff suffered from  various pressure injuries, sepsis, and other conditions under Defendant’s care,  where Defendant failed to prevent and treat such conditions. The Complaint  alleges Defendant was understaffed and failed to adequately train its staff,  resulting in Plaintiff’s neglect. The Complaint alleges the following causes of  action: 1) Dependent Adult Abuse (Pursuant to Welfare & Institutions Code §  15600, et. seq.), 2) Negligence, and 3) Violation of Residents’ Rights (Pursuant  to Health and Safety Code §1430(b)).   On September 5, 2024, Defendant filed  this Motion to Transfer Venue.    On October 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed  the opposition.   On November 5, 2024, Defendant filed  the reply.    [Tentative] Ruling   The  Court DENIES the Motion to Transfer Venue and Request for Sanctions.   LEGAL  STANDARD   Code of Civil Procedure section 395,  subdivision (a) states that in personal injury actions, venue is proper where  the defendant resides or where the injury occurred, subject to the Court’s  discretion to transfer.     Code of Civil Procedure section 397,  the discretionary venue statute, provides that “the court may, on motion,  change the place of trial . . . (a) [w]hen the court designated in the  complaint is not the proper court” and “(c) [w]hen the convenience of witnesses  and the ends of justice would the promoted by the change.” Subdivision (c)  refers only to the convenience of non-party witnesses, and not the convenience  of party witnesses and party-affiliated witnesses. (Rios v. Lacey Trucking  Co. (1954) 123 Cal.App.2d 865, 868-869.)   ANALYSIS   Motion to Transfer                Defendant  argues the case should be transferred to San Mateo County in the interests of  justice and for the convenience of non-party witnesses. Defendant argues  Millbrae Care Center is located in San Mateo County and its staff members and  leadership live in San Mateo County or nearby counties. (Ma Decl., ¶ 2, 4.) Millbrae Care Center does not provide care to  its patients in Los Angeles County , and no staff members live in Los Angeles  County. (Ibid.) Defendant argues that the specified employees have  treated Plaintiff and will testify to the issues in this case.                Plaintiff  argues that the venue is proper under Code of Civil Procedure section 395,  subdivision (a). Plaintiff argues Defendant’s “residence” is its principal  place of business located at 13345 Ventura Boulevard Los Angeles, California  91423, within Los Angeles County. Further, Plaintiff argues Defendant failed to  provide the required factual showing for motions under Code of Civil Procedure  section 397, subdivision (c).                A  more extensive factual showing is required for motions for venue transfer based  on the “convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice.” (Code Civ. Proc. §  397, subd. (c).) Declarations must contain admissible evidence, not hearsay and  conclusions. (Lieppman v. Lieber (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 914, 919; Tutor-Saliba-Perini  Joint Venture v. Sup.Ct. (San Diego Unified Port Dist.) (1991) 233 Cal.App.3d  736, 744.) Declarations in support must contain the following: 1) the names of  each witness expected to testify for both parties, 2) the substance of their  expected testimony, 3) whether the witness has been deposed or has given a  statement regarding the facts of the case, 4) the reasons why it would be  “inconvenient” for the witnesses to appear locally, 5) the reasons why the  “ends of justice” would be promoted by transfer to a different county. (Juneau  v. Juneau (1941) 45 Cal.App.2d 14, 16.)               The  Court finds venue is proper as filed because Defendant’s principal place of  business is in Los Angeles County. (Peck Decl., ¶ 3.) The Court further finds  that Defendant has failed to make the required factual showing for motions to  transfer venue under on Code of Civil Procedure section 397, subdivision (c).    The Court agrees  with Plaintiff that Defendant’s declaration of Abby Ma, Administrator of  Defendant, fails to meet the requirements set forth by Juneau v. Juneau  (1941) 45 Cal.App.2d 14, 16. The declaration identifies certain employees, but  fails to state the substance of their expected testimony, whether they have  been deposed or have given a statement, the reasons why it would be  inconvenient to testify in Los Angeles County, and why “ends of justice” would  be promoted by transfer to a different county. (See ibid.) Neither does  the declaration of Defendant’s counsel, Richard M. Acosta meet these  requirements. Even if it did, declarations from a party’s counsel regarding the  convenience of the witnesses are usually hearsay or conclusions. (Rycz v.  Sup.Ct. (McGarry) (2022) 81 CA5th 824, 846, fn. 22.)                Further,  for the purposes of determining whether to grant a motion for change of venue  under Code of Civil Procedure section 397, subdivision (c), a court need not  give consideration as to the convenience of witnesses who are employees of the  litigants, unless the employee is called to testify by the opposing party. (See   Stute v. Burinda (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d Supp. 11, 17; J.C.  Millett Co. v. Latchford-Marble Glass Co. (1959) 167 Cal.App.2d 218,  227.) Here, in support of its motion, Defendant speaks to the convenience of  its own employees. There is no indication Plaintiff seeks to call these  employees to testify. Thus, Defendant has failed to make the required factual  showing for its Motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 397, subdivision  (c).              Sanctions               Defendant  requests for attorney’s fees and costs under Code of Civil Procedure section 396b,  subdivision (b). The Court finds that it is unresolved whether sanctions are  recoverable under section 396b, subdivision (b). (See Lieppman, supra,  180 Cal. App. 3d at p. 919.) Either way, the Court finds sanctions are  unwarranted where Defendant was unsuccessful in its Motion to Transfer. The  Court thus denies Defendant’s request for attorney’s fees and costs.    CONCLUSION   The Court DENIES the Motion to Transfer Venue and Request for  Sanctions.  tavita v. Millbrae care center, llc Motion to Compel Arbitration and Request to Stay Date of Hearing:          November 14, 2024                Trial Date:       N/A      Department:               W                                             Case
No.:         24VECV02842 Moving Party:              Defendant Millbrae Care Center, LLC Responding Party:       Plaintiff Richard Tavita  BACKGROUND This is an action for dependent adult
abuse by a long-term nursing facility. On June 17, 2024, Plaintiff Richard
Tavita (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendant Millbrae Care Center
(“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 200. The Complaint alleges Plaintiff suffered from
various pressure injuries, sepsis, and other conditions under Defendant’s care,
where Defendant failed to prevent and treat such conditions. The Complaint
alleges Defendant was understaffed and failed to adequately train its staff,
resulting in Plaintiff’s neglect. The Complaint alleges the following causes of
action: 1) Dependent Adult Abuse (Pursuant to Welfare & Institutions Code §
15600, et. seq.), 2) Negligence, and 3) Violation of Residents’ Rights
(Pursuant to Health and Safety Code §1430(b)). On September 9, 2024, Defendant filed
this Motion to Compel Arbitration pursuant to arbitration clauses (the “Arbitration
Clauses”) Plaintiff purportedly signed with his admission agreement (the
“Admission Agreement”) on March 23, 2023. (Ma Decl., ¶ 2-4, Exhs. A-C.) On October 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the opposition.  On November 5, 2024, Defendant filed
the reply. [Tentative] Ruling The
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Request to Stay is DENIED.  LEGAL
STANDARD Parties may be compelled to arbitrate a
dispute upon the court finding that: (1) there was a valid agreement to
arbitrate between the parties; and (2) said agreement covers the controversy or
controversies in the parties’ dispute.¿ (CCP § 1281.2; see also Omar v.
Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004)¿118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.) A party
petitioning to compel arbitration has the burden of establishing the existence
of a valid agreement to arbitrate and the party opposing the petition has the
burden of proving, by a preponderance of the evidence, any fact necessary to
its defense. (Banner Entertainment, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1998) 62
Cal.App.4th 348, 356-57.)¿  “If a court of competent jurisdiction .
. . has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an
action or proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which
such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such
action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had
in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the
court specifies.” (CCP § 1281.4.)¿¿  ANALYSIS Existence of a Valid Agreement Under both the Federal Arbitration Act and California
law, Arbitration Clauses are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on
such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v.
Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The
party moving to compel arbitration must establish the existence of a written
arbitration agreement between the parties. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) In
ruling on a motion to compel arbitration, the court must first determine
whether the parties actually agreed to arbitrate the dispute, and general
principles of California contract law help guide the court in making this
determination. (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center (2013) 220
Cal.App.4th 534, 541.)  “With respect to the moving party’s burden to provide
evidence of the¿existence¿of an agreement to arbitrate, it is generally
sufficient for that party to present a copy of the contract to the court. (See¿Condee
v. Longwood Management Corp.¿(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218, 105
Cal.Rptr.2d 597 (Condee¿); see also Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330 [“A
petition to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required
allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that
provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim, or a copy
must be physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated
by reference”].) Once such a document is presented to the court, the burden
shifts to the party opposing the motion to compel, who may present any
challenges to the enforcement of the agreement and evidence in support of those
challenges. [Citation]” (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC¿(2017) 13
Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.) i.                   
Plaintiff’s Capacity Plaintiff argues that he
lacked capacity to enter into the Arbitration Clauses when he signed them,
rending them invalid. Defendant argues that Plaintiff has provided no evidence
supporting his incapacity.  The Court agrees with
Defendant that Plaintiff has failed to prove he lacked contractual capacity at
the time he signed the Arbitration Clauses. As support, Plaintiff merely
attached the Complaint. Such allegations are not evidence. The Arbitration
Clauses thus may not be invalidated based on lack of capacity. Nevertheless,
the Court finds the DPR Agreement and Arbitration are invalid on other grounds. ii.                  
Mutual Assent Defendant attaches the Admission Agreement and
separate Arbitration Clauses and asserts Plaintiff signed all documents on
March 23, 2023. (Ma Decl., ¶¶ 2-4, Exhs.
A-C.) Plaintiff argues Defendant did not sign the Dispute Resolution Program
Agreement or the incorporated Arbitration Clauses, and thus, there was no
mutual assent, rendering them invalid. The Court finds that while Defendant has presented a
copy of the Arbitration Clauses, the parties did not mutually assent to
arbitration. The Court agrees with Plaintiff that Defendant’s failure to sign
the Dispute Resolution Program Agreement or the Arbitration Clauses indicates a
lack of mutual assent. The Court notes that, following the Admissions
Agreement, there is a Dispute Resolution Program (DPR) Agreement that
incorporates the two Arbitration Clauses. (Ma Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. A (DPR Agreement is page 73 to 86 of the Motion).) The two Arbitration
Clauses are for 1) arbitrations relating to medical malpractice and 2) for
claims other than medical malpractice. The Arbitration Clauses are incorporated
in the DPR Agreement and also attached as Exhibits B and C to the Motion. (Ma
Decl., ¶¶ 3-4, Exhs. B, C.) Where an arbitration
agreement is separate from a larger agreement and there is a designated place
for both parties to sign, separate assent as to the arbitration agreement is
required. (See Romo v. Y-3 Holdings, Inc. (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1153,
1160 (finding that “the [arbitration agreement within the employment handbook].
. .contemplated that the arbitration of disputes provision would be effective
only if both [parties] assented to that [particular] provision. Since the
[parties] did not assent to this [particular] provision the parties did not
agree to binding arbitration”).) Here, the DPR Agreement and
Arbitration Clauses are separate from the Admissions Agreement and require both
parties to sign. Article 1 of the DPR Agreement clearly states: “By entering
into this DRP Agreement and one or both of the attached arbitration clauses,
both parties give up their constitutional right to have any such dispute
decided in a court of law before a jury, and instead accept the use of
mediation or ultimately arbitration.” (Ma Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. A, p. 73.) Both
Defendant and Plaintiff failed to sign in certain locations where both
parties were required to sign. Firstly, Defendant and Plaintiff failed to sign the DPR Agreement. The signature
page of the Dispute Resolution Program Agreement (page 11 of the Agreement),
which requires the signature of the resident, the signatures of two facility
witnesses, and the signature of the facility administrator, is completely blank.
(Ma Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. A, p. 83.) Plaintiff signed the two Arbitration Clauses,
although they are not dated. (Ma Decl., ¶¶ 3-4, Exhs. B, C.) Defendant signed
neither of the Arbitration Clauses. (Ibid.) Defendant has failed to
offer an explanation regarding its missing signatures or address arguments of
mutual at all. Because the parties failed to sign in multiple places, the Court
finds a lack of mutual assent. The DPR Agreement and Arbitration Clauses are
thus invalid.  Although the inquiry would
generally end when the arbitration agreement is found invalid, the Court will
continue to evaluate the parties’ arguments regarding enforceability. Enforceability              The parties
dispute whether the Arbitration Clauses are enforceable under Title 42 Code of Federal
Regulations section 483.7, subdivision (n) (now subdivision (m)) and Health
& Safety Code section 1599.81, which both govern arbitration agreements by
long-term nursing facilities. The Court will address each in turn.  i.                   
Title 42 Code of Federal Regulations section 483.70,
subdivision (m) Title 42 Code of Federal Regulations section 483.70 governs
requirements for institutions to participate as nursing facilities in the
Medicare and Medicaid programs. (42 CFR § 483.1, subd. (b).) Subdivision (m)
sets forth requirements for arbitration clauses for such facilities, including,
but not limited to the following: the arbitration cannot be condition of
admission, the arbitration agreement must be explained to resident in manner he
or she understands, the resident acknowledges he or she understands the
agreement, and the arbitration agreement must for a neutral arbitrator, selection
of venue agreed upon by both parties, and must be the resident a right to
rescind within 30 days of signing. (42 CFR § 483.70, subd. (m).)  Plaintiff argues that the declaration of Abby Ma in
support of the Motion fails to state that Defendant complied with these
requirements as to Plaintiff specifically, not just as to all patients. Defendant
argues the DPR Agreement and the Arbitration Clauses comply with these
requirements.  The Court finds that the requirements of C.F.R.
section 483.1, subdivision (m) are likely met. The DPR Agreement states in
multiple places that signing the agreement is not a precondition for admission
to Defendant’s facility. (Ma Decl., ¶
2, Exh. A, p. 73-74.) Further, the DPR Agreement states it may be revoked
within 30 days of signing and provides for a neutral arbitrator and mutual
venue selection. (Ma Decl., ¶ 2, Exh. A, p. 73-78.) Defendant has also
provided evidence that during the admissions process, Defendant allows their residents the opportunity to review the agreements
prior to signing them, explains the documents during the process, and answers
questions. (Ma Decl., ¶ 5) Residents are also advised that the Arbitration
Clauses are voluntary and not a precondition to admission. (Ibid.) The
Court thus finds that the DPR Agreement and Arbitration Clauses do not run
afoul of C.F.R. section 483.1, subdivision (m) as to render them unenforceable.
 ii.                  
Health & Safety Code section 1599.81, subdivision
(d) Plaintiff argues its Health & Safety Code section
1430, subdivision (b) cause of action may not be compelled to arbitration
pursuant to Health & Safety Code section 1599.81, subdivision (d). Defendant
argues that the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) applies to the DPR Agreement and
Arbitration Clauses, and the FAA preempts Health & Safety Code sections
1430 and 1599.81 to the extent they limit arbitration.  Health & Safety Code section 1430, subdivision (b)(C)
states the following: “An agreement by a resident or patient of a skilled
nursing facility or intermediate care facility to waive that resident’s or
patient’s rights to sue pursuant to this subdivision is void as
contrary to public policy.” Health & Safety Code section 1599.81,
subdivision (d) states the following: “In the event the contract contains an
arbitration clause, the contract attachment pertaining to arbitration shall
contain notice that under Section 1430, the patient may not waive his or
her ability to sue for violation of the Patient's Bill of Rights.”  The Court finds that DPR Agreement explicitly states
the FAA applies. (Ma Decl., ¶ 2, Exh.
A, p. 80.) The Court further finds that Health & Safety Code sections 1430
and 1599.81 are preempted by the FAA to the extent they prevent arbitration.
(See Valley View Health Care, Inc. v. Chapman (E.D. Cal. 2014) 992
F.Supp.2d 1016, 1040–1041 (“[Section 1430, subdivision (b)(C)] effectively
“prohibits outright arbitration” of Patient Bill of Rights claims and as a
“conflicting rule is displaced by the FAA.”[Citations.] [Section 1430,
subdivision (b)(C)] violates and is preempted by the FAA as an obstacle to
accomplishment and execution of FAA purposes. . .Section[] 1599.81(d) fall[s] as
contrary to the FAA to the extent that [it] require[s] notice of the bar on
arbitration of Patient's Bill of Rights claims.”).) Thus, while the DPR
Agreement and the Arbitration Clause on medical malpractice claims contain a
section 1599.81 notice, the Court finds Plaintiff’s section 1430 cause of
action arbitrable due to FAA preemption. The Court finds Plaintiff’s argument
insufficient to render the DPR Agreement and Arbitration Clauses unenforceable.
             The Court does
not address other issues of enforceability because no other issues were raised
by the parties. The Court finds that, based on the parties’ arguments, the DPR
Agreement and Arbitration Clauses are not unenforceable on Plaintiff’s asserted
grounds. Yet the DPR Agreement and Arbitration Clauses are still invalid due to
a lack of mutual assent—there is no valid agreement to enforce. The Court thus
denies the Motion to Compel.  CONCLUSION The Motion to Compel and Request to Stay is DENIED.



































































































































































