 Case Number:  22VECV01677    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  W ffWesley
Crockett v. Jaguar Land Rover North America, LLC, et al. 
 
defendant Jaguar
Land Rover North America, LLC and Jaguar Land Rover Woodland Hills DBA Terry
York Motor Cars, Ltd.’s MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE,
SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
Date of Hearing:        November
14, 2024              Trial
Date:       August 11, 2025
Department:              W                                            Case
No.:        22VECV01677
 
Moving Party:            Defendants
Jaguar Land Rover North America, LLC and Terry York Motor Cars, LTD
Responding Party:     Plaintiff Wesley Crockett
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 22, 2022, Plaintiff Wesley
Crockett (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Defendant Jaguar Land Rover
North America, LLC; AutoNation, Inc.; Terry York Motor Cars, LTD; and Does 1 to
100 with five causes of action for: (1) Strict Liability – Manufacturing
Defect; (2) Strict Liability – Design Defect; (3) Negligence; (4) Breach of
Express Warranty; and (5) Breach of Implied Warranty of Merchantability. 
 
According to the Complaint, on May 7,
2021, Plaintiff’s mother Tiffanique Webb purchased a 2018 Range Rover HSE (the “Subject
Vehicle”) for Plaintiff from Jaguar Land Rover Woodland Hills fdba Terry York
Motor Cars, LTD (“Terry York”). On September 3, 2022, a leak or spray from the
coolant lines allegedly caused an engine fire and explosion while Plaintiff was
driving the Subject Vehicle, injuring Plaintiff. The vehicle failed to warn of
the engine fire causing Plaintiff’s injury.
 
On August 20, 2024, Defendants Jaguar
Land Rover North America, LLC (“JLRNA”) and Terry York (collectively, the “Moving
Defendants”) filed the instant Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the Alternative,
Summary Adjudication. On October 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Opposition. On
November 8, 2024, Moving Defendants filed a reply.
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
1.      Defendants Jaguar Land Rover North America, LLC and Terry
York Motor Cars, LTD’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. 
2.      Defendants Jaguar Land Rover North America, LLC and Terry
York Motor Cars, LTD’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED.
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
Plaintiff submits seven evidentiary
objections to Defendants’ declaration of Christopher Previtire. 
 
-         
Sustained: Nos. 1 (lacks foundation) 
-         
Overruled: Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7
 
 
Moving Defendants submit evidentiary
objections to the declarations of Tiffanique Webb, Rob Little and Ernest J.
Lingenfelter.
 
Tiffanique
Webb
 
-         
Moving Defendants’ objections are
overruled. 
 
Rob
Little
-         
Sustained:
o  
No. 10: Par. 10, pg. 5 lines 16-22 (lacks
foundation)
o  
No. 11: Par. 11, pg. 5 line 23 to pg. 6
line 7 (lacks foundation)
o  
No. 12: Par. 12, pg. 6, lines 8 – 18 (improper
opinion)
o  
No. 13: Par. 13, pg. 6, lines 19 – 22
(improper opinion)
-         
Moving Defendants’ other objections to
this declaration are overruled. 
 
Ernest
J. Lingenfelter
 
-         
Moving Defendants’ objections are
overruled. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Legal
Standard
 
The function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is
to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show
evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary
dismissal without the need for trial.¿(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) In analyzing such motions, courts must apply a three-step
analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine
whether the moving party has negated the opponent's claims; and (3) determine
whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material
factual issue.”¿(Hinesley¿v.¿Oakshade¿Town Center¿(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th
289, 294.)¿ Thus, summary judgment or summary adjudication is granted when,
after the Court’s consideration of the evidence set forth in the papers and all
reasonable inferences accordingly, no triable issues of fact exist and the
moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.¿(Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (c);¿Villa v.¿McFarren¿(1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733,
741.) 
 
As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the party¿moving for
summary judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of
proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element.¿(Scalf¿v. D. B.
Log Homes, Inc.¿(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally
construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and
resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”¿(Dore v.
Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) A motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication must be denied where the moving party's
evidence does not prove all material facts, even in the absence of any
opposition or where the opposition is weak.¿(See¿Leyva v. Superior Court
(1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 462, 475;¿Salesguevara¿v. Wyeth Labs., Inc. (1990)
222 Cal.App.3d 379, 384, 387.)
¿ 
Once the¿moving¿party has met the burden, the burden shifts to the
opposing party¿to show via specific facts that a triable issue of material
facts exists as to a cause of action or a defense thereto.¿(Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (o)(2).) 
When¿a¿party¿cannot¿establish an essential element or defense, a
court must grant a motion for summary adjudication.¿(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subds. (o)(1)–(2).) 
 
“If it appears from the affidavits
submitted in opposition to a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication,
or both, that facts essential to justify opposition may exist but cannot, for
reasons stated, be present, the court shall deny the motion, order a
continuance to permit affidavits to be obtained or discovery to be had, or make
any other order as may be just.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (h).) 
 
First
Cause of Action – Manufacturing Defect
 
Moving Defendants contend this claim fails because Plaintiff fails
to provide evidence that the Subject Vehicle contained a manufacturing defect
at the time it left Moving Defendants’ possession or that the alleged defect
caused Plaintiff’s injury. Plaintiff contends he shows evidence both that a
manufacturing defect existed and that such defect caused his injury.
“A product has a manufacturing
defect if it differs from the manufacturer's intended result or from other
ostensibly identical units of the same product line.” (Barker v. Lull Engineering Co. (1978) 20 Cal.3d 413, 429.) The
product must have contained the manufacturing defect when it left defendant's
possession. (Doupnik v. General Motors Corp. (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 849,
859.) A plaintiff must plead and prove that defendant “produced, manufactured,
sold, or was in some way responsible for the product.” (Garcia v. Joseph
Vince Co. (1978) 84 CA3d 868, 874.) However, all participants in the chain
of distribution of a defective product are strictly liable. (Peterson v. Superior
Court (1995) 10 Cal.4th 1185, 1188.) To show the manufacturing defect is
the legal cause of injury, a plaintiff must show that the product’s defect was
a substantial factor in causing the injury. (Soule v. General Motors Corp.
(1994) 8 Cal.4th 548, 572.)
i.                   
Whether the Product Contained a Manufacturing
Defect When it Left Defendants’ Possession
Here, Moving Defendants meet their initial burden. First, the
declaration of Christopher Previtire, the service director for Terry York, establishes
that according to business records maintained by Terry York, the Subject
Vehicle was originally distributed by Jaguar Land Rover Automotive, PLC on
February 6, 2018, the Subject Vehicle was returned to Terry York after its
initial lease, and that on April 18, 2021, Terry York found no defects or leaks
upon inspection of the Subject Vehicle. (UMF 15–16; Previtire Decl. ¶¶ 4–8.) Moving
Defendants state that on July 5, 2021, about two months after Plaintiff’s
mother purchased the Subject Vehicle, Plaintiff’s mother presented the Subject
Vehicle to Terry York for service complaining of a coolant leak. (Previtire
Decl. ¶ 10; Moving Defendants’ Compendium of Exhibits (DCE), Exh. J.) Terry York verified a leak from the front
coolant manifold pipe, removed and replaced the coolant manifold pipe and
verified the repair with a successful coolant pressure test. (Previtire Decl. ¶
10; DCE, Exh. J.) Further, the repair order
submitted by Moving Defendants for a subsequent service of the Subject Vehicle on
February 22, 2022 identified no leaks of any kind. (Previtire Decl. ¶ 11; DCE, Exh.
L.) Accordingly, Moving Defendants contend Plaintiff has failed to show the
Subject Vehicle contained any defect when it left Terry York’s possession or
that any such defect caused Plaintiff’s injury. (UMF 3; DCE, Exh. R.) Moving Defendants have, thus, successfully negated the
elements that a manufacturing defect existed at the time the Subject Vehicle
left Defendants’ possession and that any such defect caused the engine fire
that injured Plaintiff. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to demonstrate a triable
issue of material fact.
 
To
meet his burden, Plaintiff presents the declaration of Robert Little, former
general sales manager and vehicle auditor for Jaguar Land Rover dealerships, who
opines that the pre-owned inspection checklist provided by Moving Defendants for
the Subject Vehicle indicates a defect in the Subject Vehicle because (1) a check
box that states “Approval for Certification” remained unchecked and (2) the
checklist indicates Terry York completed a recall repair on the Subject Vehicle.
(Little Decl. ¶ 6; DCE, Exh. H.) In his
declaration, Mr. Little also notes that the March 30, 2021 repair order lacks any
mention of a cooling system pressure test performed on the Subject Vehicle during
the certification process, which would be warranted, based on Mr. Little’s
experience as a vehicle auditor, for a vehicle with a known prior cooling
system defect such as the Subject Vehicle. (Little Decl. ¶ 9; DCE, Exh. G.) Further, Plaintiff submits
evidence of the Subject Vehicle experiencing coolant leaks three times within a
two-year period, including once during the original lease of the Subject
Vehicle and twice during Plaintiff’s possession, further showing the existence
of a defect. (Little Decl. ¶¶ 5, 7; Webb Decl. ¶ 4.)
Plaintiff’s attorney in his declaration states that this coolant system defect
is a widespread issue with the 2018 Range Rover class of vehicles, the same
model as the Subject Vehicle, and provides evidence that this is the subject of
a separate class action suit filed in September 2024 against JLRNA. (Lingenfelter
Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 3.) Moreover, Plaintiff
submits an expert investigation report conducted by Sage Forensic
Investigations, which found upon post-fire inspection of the Subject Vehicle
that a leak or spray from the coolant lines, the same defect Plaintiff alleges,
caused the engine fire that injured Plaintiff. (DCE, Exh. R.) As such, the
evidence presented by Plaintiff is sufficient to show triable issues as to both
whether the Subject Vehicle contained a manufacturing defect at the time the Subject
Vehicle left Moving Defendants’ possession and whether this defect caused Plaintiff’s
injury.
 
Accordingly,
the court DENIES summary judgment, or summary adjudication, as to the First Cause
of Action.
 
Second
Cause of Action – Design Defect
 
Moving Defendants argue Plaintiff fails
to show that the Subject Vehicle’s design was a substantial factor in causing
harm to Plaintiff. Plaintiff argues he has shown evidence that the Subject
Vehicle’s defective coolant hoses were a substantial factor in causing the
engine fire and explosion that injured him.
 
A manufacturer, distributor, or retailer
is liable in tort if a defect in the manufacture or design of its product
causes injury while the product is being used in a reasonably foreseeable way.
(Cronin v. J.B.E. Olson Corp. (1972) 8 Cal.3d 121, 126-130.) 
 
In California, courts apply two
different tests to determine whether a product contains a design defect, the “Consumer
Expectation Test” and the “Risk-Benefit Test,” but “[t]he crucial question in
each individual case is whether the circumstances of the product’s failure
permit an inference that the product’s design performed below the legitimate,
commonly accepted minimum safety assumptions of its ordinary consumers.” (Soule
v. General Motors Co. (1994) 8 Cal.4th 548, 568.) The Consumer Expectations
Test is reserved for cases where the everyday experience of the product’s users
allows for a conclusion as to whether the product’s design violated minimum
safety assumptions. (Soule, supra, 8 Cal.4th at p. 567.) This
test should not be used when the alleged design defect involves technical or
mechanical details of a product or complex circumstances of an accident. (Ibid.;
see Sparks v. Owens-Illinois, Inc. (1995) 32 Cal.App.4th 461, 473–474 [applying
the consumer expectations test in a case involving the safety of asbestos-laden
dust created by normal installation and removal processes].) The Risk-Benefit
Test is used when an ordinary consumer would not know what to expect concerning
design safety. (Soule, supra, at p. 562). Under the Risk-Benefit
Test, a product may be found defective in design if a plaintiff proves the
product’s design proximately caused his injury and the defendant fails to prove
that “the benefits of the challenged design outweigh the risk of danger
inherent in such design.” (Id. at p. 566, citing Barker v. Lull
Engineering Co. (1978) 20 Cal.3d 413, 435.) 
 
To show causation, a plaintiff
must establish “a substantial probability that the design defect, and not
something else, caused the plaintiff's injury.” (Stephen v. Ford Motor Co. (2005)
134 Cal.App.4th 1363, 1373.) If the plaintiff proves the required elements,
then the burden shifts to defendants to prove that the benefits of the Subject
Vehicle’s design outweigh the risks of the design. (Soule, supra,
8 Cal.4th at pp. 572–573.) Several relevant factors may be considered by the jury in this secondary
analysis, including but not limited to “[t]he likelihood that this harm would
occur,” “[t]he feasibility of an alternative safer design at the time of
manufacture,” [t]he cost of an alternative design,” and “[t]he disadvantages of
an alternative design.” (Ibid.)
 
i.                   
Proximate
Cause
 
The Court notes that given the technical
and mechanical nature of the Subject Vehicle’s coolant and engine components at
issue, the Risk-Benefit Test applies to the instant case. (Soule, supra,
at p. 562.) To support their contention that Plaintiff has failed to show proximate
cause, Moving Defendants submit that Plaintiff’s investigative report
identifies no design defect in the Subject Vehicle. (UMF 9, 10, 11.) Further, Moving
Defendants state Plaintiff’s claims that other vehicles in the Subject
Vehicle’s product line may have a propensity to catch fire are unsupported and insufficient
to show that the Subject Vehicle’s design proximately caused the engine fire in
this instance. (UMF 9, 10, 11.) Moving Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s claim
of a recall on the Subject Vehicle is false, and that Plaintiff provides no
evidence of such a recall. (UMF 9.) Lastly, Moving Defendants state that even assuming
Plaintiff has met the required elements of a design defect claim, Plaintiff has
not alleged any safer alternative design, weighing against a finding of design
defect. (UMF 12; Cronin Decl. ¶
4; Exh. A.) Moving Defendants have met their initial
burden to show no triable issue of fact as to whether the alleged design defect
was a substantial factor in causing harm to Plaintiff. The burden shifts to
Plaintiff to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact.
 
Plaintiff has met his burden to show a
triable issue of material fact as to whether a design defect proximately caused
Plaintiff’s injury. First, Plaintiff points to Moving
Defendants’ March 30, 2021 repair order, which notes a recall of unspecified
origin was completed on the Subject Vehicle, showing the existence of both a defect
and a recall. (UMF 9, 10, 11; DCE, Exh. G.) Second, Plaintiff submits expert evidence in the form of an investigation
report that, based upon a post-fire inspection of the Subject Vehicle,
identified the cause of the engine fire as “a leak/spray from the coolant lines
for the supercharger aftercooler at the right side of the engine compartment.” (DCE,
Exh. R.) Third, Plaintiff submits evidence of the Subject Vehicle’s Vehicle
History Report, which reflects three instances of coolant leaks within a two-year
period, including once during the original lease of the Subject Vehicle and twice
during Plaintiff’s possession. (Little Decl. ¶ 7;
Webb Decl. ¶ 4.) Such evidence of a recall, persistent coolant leaks,
and a coolant leak causing the engine fire that caused Plaintiff’s injury creates
a triable issue of material fact as to both whether the Subject Vehicle’s design performed below the commonly accepted safety assumptions
of ordinary users and whether the defect caused the engine fire that injured
Plaintiff. (Soule, supra, 8 Cal.4th at 568.) Therefore, Plaintiff
has shown the existence of triable issues of material fact as to the existence
of a design defect and whether such a defect was a substantial factor in
causing Plaintiff’s injury.
 
Accordingly,
the court DENIES summary judgment, or summary adjudication, as to the Second Cause
of Action.
 
Third
Cause of Action – Negligence
 
Moving
Defendants contend this claim fails because Plaintiff fails to show that
Defendants breached the standard of care in inspecting or repairing the Subject
Vehicle or that any alleged breach was a substantial factor in causing
Plaintiff’s harm. Plaintiff argues he has shown evidence of negligent
inspection and repair to the Subject Vehicle that caused his injury.
 
To state a
claim for negligence, a plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the
existence of a legal duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3)
“proximate cause resulting in an injury.” (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific, LLC
(2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.) A tort
is a legal cause of injury only when it is a substantial factor in producing
the injury. (Mitchell v. Gonzales (1991) 54 Cal.3d 1041,
1048-1054.) “Negligence law in a failure-to-warn case requires a plaintiff to
prove that a manufacturer or distributor did not warn of a particular risk for
reasons which fell below the acceptable standard of care, i.e., what a
reasonably prudent manufacturer would have known and warned about.” (Anderson
v. Owens-Corning Fiberglas Corp. 53 Cal.3d
987, 1002.)
 
i.                   
Breach
 
In support of their contention
that Plaintiff has shown no evidence of breach, Moving Defendants submit that upon
return of the Subject Vehicle from the prior lessee, Defendants conducted an inspection
of the Subject Vehicle using the Land Rover Select Certified Pre-Owned
Inspection Checklist, which “memorializes all checks conducted, all vehicle
features present, and any parts or subsystems in need of replacement or repair,”
noted no defects in the Subject Vehicle’s engine cooling system, and certified
the Subject Vehicle for resale. (UMF 14, 15, 16; Previtire Decl. ¶¶ 7–8; DCE,
Exh. H.) Moving Defendants state that on July 5, 2021, about two months after
Plaintiff’s mother purchased the Subject Vehicle, Plaintiff’s mother presented
the Subject Vehicle to Terry York for service complaining of a coolant leak,
and Terry York verified a leak from the front coolant manifold pipe, removed
and replaced the coolant manifold pipe and verified the repair with a
successful coolant pressure test. (Previtire Decl. ¶ 10; DCE, Exh. J.) Further, Moving Defendants submit that
Plaintiff’s post-fire vehicle investigation report states nothing about Moving
Defendants as to any breach of the standard of care and, thus, provides no
basis that any such alleged breach proximately caused the fire in the Subject
Vehicle. (UMF 3; DCE Exh. R.) This
evidence is sufficient to meet Moving Defendants’ initial burden to show no
breach of the standard of care owed to Plaintiff or that the breach proximately
caused Plaintiff harm. The burden shifts to Plaintiff to show the existence of
a triable issue of material fact.
 
Plaintiff
has met his burden that a triable issue of material fact exists. First, despite
Moving Defendants’ contention that its pre-certification inspection found no
problem with the Subject Vehicle’s coolant system, Plaintiff shows contradicting
evidence indicating a prior radiator coolant leak in October 2020, which Moving
Defendants did not disclose to Plaintiff prior to sale, and no mention of
checking the coolant hoses or conducting a cooling system pressure test during
the pre-certification inspection. (Webb Decl. ¶ 9,
Exh. 1; DCE, Exh. G.) Second, Plaintiff provides evidence that Plaintiff’s mother
complained to Terry York two months after Plaintiff took possession of the
Subject Vehicle of coolant leak similar to that reported in October 2020. (Little
Decl. ¶ 7; Webb Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s
complaint of a coolant leak so soon after the prior lessee’s complaint suggests
Moving Defendants failed to exercise reasonable care in repairing the Subject
Vehicle before resale. Third, Plaintiff provides an investigative report that,
upon inspection of the Subject Vehicle, identified the cause of the engine fire
as “a leak/spray from the coolant lines for the supercharger aftercooler at the
right side of the engine compartment,” implicating the very components subject
to Terry York’s repairs as the cause of Plaintiff’s injury. (DCE, Exh. R.) The
evidence submitted by Plaintiff, thus, shows
triable issues of material fact as to whether Moving Defendants breached their
duty of care in repairing and reselling the Subject Vehicle and whether such
breach was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff’s injury.
 
Accordingly,
the court DENIES summary judgment, or summary adjudication, as to the Third Cause
of Action.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendants Jaguar Land Rover North
America, LLC and Terry York Motor Cars, LTD’s Motion for Summary Judgment is
DENIED. Defendants Jaguar Land Rover North America, LLC and Terry York Motor
Cars, LTD’s Motion for Summary Adjudication is DENIED.
 