 Case Number:  24VECV02916    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  W Sarkisian, et
al. v. leisure
healthcare, llc dba leisure glen post acute care center, et al.
 
Motion to compel arbitration and to
stay proceedings
 
Date of Hearing:          November 14, 2024                            Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:               W                                                         Case
No.:         24VECV02916
 
Moving
Party:             Defendant Leisure
Healthcare LLC dba Leisure Glen Post Acute Care Center
Responding
Parties:    Plaintiffs Lida Sarkisian
(individually and as successor in interest to Susan Khodagulyan), Andranik
Sarkissian, Gilbert Sarkisian, and Henrick Sarkisian
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from the admittance of Susan Khodagulyan
(Decedent) to Defendant Leisure Healthcare LLC dba Leisure Glen Post Acute Care
Center (Leisure Center). 
 
Decedent was admitted to Leisure Center on November 19, 2022
for “full-time ‘24/7’ residence and safety protection.” (Compl., ¶ 10.)
According to the complaint, while Leisure Center was aware that Decedent had a
“fall risk,” a few days after being admitted to Leisure Center, Decedent
suffered a fall. (Id. ¶¶ 9, 14.) By May 12, 2023, Decedent suffered
“three or more falls.” (Id. ¶ 15.) On July 3, 2023, Decedent suffered
another fall which resulted in a head injury. (Id. ¶ 16.) On August 27,
2023, Decedent suffered another fall, which resulted in a head injury and brain
bleed, after which Decedent’s family terminated her residence at Leisure
Center. (Id. ¶¶ 17-19.) 
 
On June 20, 2024, Plaintiffs Lida Sarkisian (individually
and as successor in interest to Susan Khodagulyan), Andranik Sarkissian,
Gilbert Sarkisian, and Henrick Sarkisian filed a complaint against Leisure
Healthcare LLC dba Leisure Glen Post Acute Care Center and B.V. General Inc.
dba Leisure Glen Post Acute Care Center. Plaintiff Lida Sarkisian (Lida) as
successor in interest to Decedent alleged causes of action for (1) Survivor
Action – Elder Abuse and (2) Survivor Action – General Negligence. Plaintiffs
Lida Sarkisian individually, Andranik Sarkissian, Gilbert Sarkisian, and
Henrick Sarkisian (together, Plaintiffs) alleged a cause of action for (3)
Wrongful Death – Negligence. 
 
On August 16, 2024, Leisure Center filed the instant motion
to compel arbitration and to stay the current proceedings. 
 
On October 8, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition. 
 
On October 14, 2024, Leisure Center filed a reply. 
On October 21, 2024, this Court requested further briefing. 
 
On November 4, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their supplemental
brief. 
 
On November 5, 2024, Leisure Center filed its supplemental
brief. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
1.     
Leisure Center’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration is GRANTED only as to Lida’s wrongful death claim. Leisure Center’s
Motion is DENIED as to the rest of the claims alleged in the complaint,
including the motion to stay.    
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2, a
court may order arbitration of a controversy if it finds that the parties have
agreed to arbitrate that dispute. Because the obligation to arbitrate arises
from contract, the court may compel arbitration only if the dispute in question
is one in which the parties have agreed to arbitrate. (Weeks v. Crow
(1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 352.) Since arbitration is a favored method of
dispute resolution, arbitration agreements should be liberally interpreted, and
arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly does not apply to
the dispute in question. (Id. at p. 353; Segal v. Silberstein
(2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633.) 
 
ANALYSIS
 
Leisure Center is seeking to compel arbitration on the
grounds that an Admission Agreement and an Arbitration Agreement was executed
by Lida in her individual capacity and in her representative capacity for
Decedent, which would thus force Andranik Sarkissian, Gilbert Sarkisian, and
Henrick Sarkisian’s claim into arbitration. (Reyes Decl., Exhibits A, B, C.) 
 
1.     
Existence of a Valid Arbitration
Agreement
 
“Arbitration
is a matter of contract.” (Metalclad Corp. v. Ventana Env't Organizational
P'ship (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1705, 1711.) “General principles of
contract law determine whether the parties have entered a binding agreement to
arbitrate.” (Craig v. Brown & Root, Inc., 84 Cal.App.4th 416, 420
(2000); Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc., 15 Cal.4th 951,
971-72 (1997).) “In determining whether an arbitration agreement exists, we
apply the same rules of contract formation as for any other contract.” (Weeks
v. Interactive Life Forms, LLC (2024) 100 Cal.App.5th 1077, 1084.) 
 
Under the
California law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable,
except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v. Window Fashions Professions, Inc.
(2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) The party moving to compel arbitration must
establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement between the parties.
(Code of Civ. Proc. Section 1281.2.) In ruling on a motion to compel
arbitration, the court must first determine whether the parties agreed to arbitrate
the dispute, and general principles of California contract law help guide the
court in making this determination. (Mendez
v. Mid-Wilshire Health Care Center (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.)
 
Once
petitioners allege that an arbitration agreement exists, the burden shifts to
respondents to prove the falsity of the purported agreement, and no evidence or
authentication is required to find the arbitration agreement exists. (See Condee v. Longwood Mgt. Corp. (2001) 88
Cal.App.4th 215, 219.) However, if the existence of the agreement is
challenged, "petitioner bears the burden of proving [the arbitration
agreement's] existence by a preponderance of the evidence." (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities
Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413. See also Espejo v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 1047, 1058-1060.)  
 
“With respect
to the moving party's burden to provide evidence of the existence of
an agreement to arbitrate, it is generally sufficient for that party to present
a copy of the contract to the court.” (Baker
v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160). “A
petition to compel arbitration or to stay proceedings pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sections 1281.2 and 1281.4 must state, in addition to other required
allegations, the provisions of the written agreement and the paragraph that
provides for arbitration. The provisions must be stated verbatim or a copy must
be physically or electronically attached to the petition and incorporated by
reference.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1330.) “Once such a document is
presented to the court, the burden shifts to the party opposing the motion to
compel, who may present any challenges to the enforcement of the agreement and
evidence in support of those challenges.’ (Baker,
supra, 13 Cal.App.5th at p. 1160.)
 
Here, in
support of whether a valid arbitration exists, Leisure Center provided the text
of the Arbitration Agreement that was signed by Lida. (Reyes Decl., ¶ 2; Exhibit A.). 
 
Article 2 of
the Arbitration Agreement provides: 
 
It is further understood that any
dispute between Resident and B.V. General, Inc. dba Leisure Glen Post Acute
Care Center; Leisure Healthcare LLC dba Leisure Glen Post Acute Care Center,
its owners, operators, officers, directors, administrators, staff, employees,
agents, . . . [etc.], including any action for injury or death arising from
negligence, intentional tort and/or statutory causes of action (including all
California Welfare and Institutions Code sections and Health and Safety Code
section 1430), will be determined by submission to binding arbitration and not
by lawsuit or resort to court process except as California law provides for
judicial review of arbitration proceedings.
 
Further, Article 4 of the Arbitration Agreement provides:
 
This Agreement is binding on all
parties. including the Resident's representatives, executors, family members,
and heirs who bring any claims individually or in a representative capacity.
The Resident's representatives, agents, executors, family members, successors
in interest and heirs who execute this Agreement below on the signature line
are doing so not only in their representative capacity for the Resident, but
also in their individual capacity and thus agree that any claims brought
individually by any such representatives. agents. executors. family members,
representatives, successors in interest and heirs are subject to binding
arbitration.
 
However, Plaintiffs contest that a valid arbitration
agreement exists. While Plaintiffs do not dispute that Lida signed the
Arbitration Agreement, Plaintiffs contend that (1) Lida did not have the
authority to act as an agent and sign the Arbitration Agreement on behalf of
Decedent, and (2) The Arbitration Agreement does not bind Andranik Sarkissian,
Gilbert Sarkisian, and Henrick Sarkisian as non-signatories to the Agreement,
and therefore no valid arbitration agreement exists. 
 
a.     
Lida Was Not the Agent of Decedent 
 
Leisure Center contends that a valid arbitration agreement
exists because Lida signed the Arbitration Agreement in her individual capacity
and on behalf of Decedent. Leisure Center argues that because Linda also signed
the Declaration of Healthcare Agent form under penalty of perjury, which states
that the signatory (Lida) is acting on behalf of the patient (Decedent), the
Arbitration Agreement should be enforced. (Reyes Decl., Exhibit C.)
Specifically, the Declaration of Healthcare Agent form provides: 
 
On or about November 19, 2022, the
Resident requested that I make healthcare decisions on his/her behalf. I have
been signing documents on behalf of the Resident and making healthcare
decisions on behalf of the Resident at the Resident’s request since that time.
I do this because the Resident request/gave consent for me to do so on his/her
behalf. I now voluntarily signed the Admission Agreement and the Arbitration
Agreement for this skilled nursing facility on behalf of the Resident as the
Resident appointed healthcare agent. By signing my name below, I attest under
the penalty of perjury that the above is true and accurate, and that I am
authorized by the Resident’s consent/direction to sign the Admission and
Arbitration Agreement on the Resident’s behalf.
(Ibid.) 
 
“[A] person who is authorized to act as the patient's agent
can bind the patient to an arbitration agreement.” (Kinder v. Capistrano
Beach Care Ctr., LLC (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 804, 812.) However, “[A]n
agency[, whether actual or ostensible,] cannot be created by the conduct of the
agent alone; rather, conduct by the principal is essential to create the agency.”
(Flores v. Evergreen at San Diego, LLC (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 581.) “’The
principal must in some manner indicate that the agent is to act for him, and
the agent must act or agree to act on his behalf and subject to his control.” [Citations.]
Thus, the ‘formation of an agency relationship is a bilateral matter. Words or
conduct by both principal and agent are necessary to create the
relationship . . . .’” (Flores, supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at p. 588.) 
 
“The party seeking to compel arbitration does not meet its
burden of proving the existence of an arbitration agreement when it does not
present any evidence that the purported principal's conduct caused the agent or
the third party to believe that the agent had the authority to bind the
principal.” (Rogers v. Roseville SH, LLC (2022) 75 Cal.App.5th 1065,
1075.) 
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiffs that Leisure Center has not
met its burden in establishing whether a valid arbitration agreement exists
because it has not met its burden in establishing that an agency relationship
existed between Decedent and Lida. 
 
In Kinder, a patient was admitted to the defendant
nursing facility, when a dispute between the patient and the nursing facility
arose. (Kinder, supra, 91 Cal.App.5th at p. 809.)
There, the nursing facility petitioned the court to compel arbitration,
claiming the patient was bound to the arbitration agreement that his adult
children purportedly executed on his behalf. (Ibid.) The Kinder court
declined to compel arbitration because the nursing facility “presented no
evidence that [the patient] did anything to lead [his adult children] to
believe they had actual authority [or ostensible authority] to enter in
arbitration agreements on her behalf.” (Id. at p. 813.) 
 
The court in Flores came to a similar conclusion. In Flores,
the court declined to compel arbitration when the patient’s husband signed an
admission agreement, which included an arbitration agreement, on behalf of the
patient. (Flores, supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at pp. 585-86.) The Flores court
concluded that even though the nursing facility presented evidence that the
patient’s husband signed the admission documents on the patient’s behalf, which
demonstrated evidence regarding the husband’s conduct, the nursing facility
failed to offer evidence regarding the patient’s conduct. (Id. at p.
588.) Because the nursing facility failed to meet its burden in showing an
actual or ostensible agency relationship between the patient and her husband,
the Court, as in Kinder, denied the nursing facility’s petition to
compel arbitration. (Id. at p. 594.) 
 
As in both Kinder and Flores, Leisure Center
has not provided the Court with any evidence reflecting affirmative conduct on
behalf of Decedent to create an agency relationship between herself and Lida.
The evidence is “completely silent regarding [Decedent’s and Lida’s] dealings
prior to her admission and/or their interactions at the time of her admission.”
(Flores, supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at p. 588.) Because “agency cannot be
created by the conduct of the agent alone,” Leisure Center’s contention that
Lida unilaterally signing Declaration of Healthcare Agent form indicates that
an agency relationship was created between her and Decedent is not sufficient.
(Id. at pp. 587–88 [“The mere fact [Lida] signed the admission
documents, including the arbitration agreements, is insufficient.”].) 
 
Additionally, Leisure Center’s argument that Lida signed
Declaration of Healthcare Agent form under penalty of perjury does not alter
the analysis. Lida’s action in signing the Declaration of Healthcare Agent form
is not a representation that the Decedent affirmatively conferred agency status
upon Lida, which is required to create an agency relationship. The evidence is
devoid of any such representation. (Hearden v. Windsor Redding Care Ctr.,
LLC (2024) 103 Cal. App. 5th 1010, 1020-21 [“Defendants point to the
declarations the family signatories submitted in opposition to the motion to
compel arbitration, but those declarations do not aver that decedents expressly
authorized the family signatories to sign the arbitration agreements or that
any conduct by decedents caused the facility to reasonably believe decedents
consented to having the family signatories bind decedents to arbitration.”].) 
 
Further, Leisure Center in its motion states that Lida was
the Decedent’s “self-appointed agent,” further displaying a lack of evidence
that Decedent consented to an agency relationship between herself and Lida.
(Motion, page 6.)  Leisure Center has not
presented any evidence that Lida had actual or ostensible authority to sign the
Arbitration Agreement on behalf of Decedent, beyond Lida’s own representations
that she was Decedent’s agent reflected in the Declaration of Healthcare Agent
form. 
 
Thus, the Court finds that Leisure Center has not met its
burden in establishing that an agency relationship existed between Lida and
Decedent. (Flores, supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at p. 589 [“It was [Leisure
Center’s] burden to show the validity of the arbitration agreement based on [Decedent’s]
express or implied consent to have [Lida] act as her agent.”].) Because Leisure
Center has not sufficiently shown that an agency relationship existed between
Lida and Decedent, it has not met its burden in demonstrating that a valid
arbitration agreement exists. (See also Lopez v. Bartlett Care Center, LLC
(2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 311, 313; Pagarian v. Libby Care Center Inc.
(2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 298, 301-303; Rogers v. Roseville SH, LLC (2022)
75 Cal.App.5th 1065, 1074-75.)
 
2.     
The Arbitration Agreement Does Not
Extend to Non-Signatories
 
“Although, as noted, California has a strong public policy
in favor of arbitration, there is no preference for the arbitral forum when the
parties have not agreed to arbitrate.” (Garrison v. Superior Ct. (2005)
132 Cal.App.4th 253, 263–64.) “There are three exceptions to the rule: (1) an
agent can bind a principal, (2) spouses can bind each other, and (3) a parent
can bind a minor child.” (Monschke v. Timber Ridge Assisted Living, LLC
(2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 583, 587.) 
 
In the absence of evidence that Lida had actual or
ostensible authority to bind Decedent to the Arbitration Agreement, the
arbitration does not bind Andranik Sarkissian, Gilbert Sarkisian, and Henrick
Sarkisian as Decedent’s “family members” or “heirs.” (Reyes Decl., Exhibit B.)
“The individual claims of [Andranik Sarkissian, Gilbert Sarkisian, and Henrick
Sarkisian] are also not subject to the arbitration agreement because . . .
there was no evidence that [Lida] had the authority to sign the arbitration agreement
on behalf of [Andranik Sarkissian, Gilbert Sarkisian, and Henrick Sarkisian].” (Rogers,
supra, 75 Cal.App.5th at p. 1077.)  
 
Leisure Center’s reliance on Ruiz v. Podolsky (2010)
50 Cal.4th 838 is misplaced. Leisure Center argues that under Ruiz,
Wrongful Death claimants who do not sign an arbitration agreement should
nonetheless be “bootstrapped” into arbitration when the arbitration agreement
involves a healthcare provider. (Motion, page 8.) The Court in Ruiz held
that Code of Civil Procedure “[S]ection 1295, construed in light of its
purpose, is designed to permit patients who sign arbitration agreements to bind
their heirs in wrongful death actions.” (Ruiz, supra, 50 Cal.4th at p.
849.) However, the Ruiz Court dealt with a situation wherein the patient
himself signed the arbitration agreement that validly bound the patient’s heirs
to arbitrate their wrongful death claims. (Id. at 851 [“Although a
wrongful death claim is an independent action, wrongful death plaintiffs may be
bound by agreements entered into by decedent that limit the scope of the
wrongful death action (emphasis added).”].) Here, Decedent did not sign the
arbitration agreement, and there is no evidence that Decedent otherwise intended
to bind her heirs to arbitration. Thus, Ruiz is inapplicable. 
 
Because Plaintiffs Andrank Sarkisian, Gilbert Sarkisian and
Henrick Sarkisian are not parties to the arbitration agreement and there is no
evidence that Lida had the authority to execute the agreement on their behalf,
their wrongful death claim is not compelled to arbitration. 
 
3.     
Lida’s Wrongful Death Claim is
Compelled to Arbitration 
 
Here, Lida, in her individual capacity, also pursues a
wrongful death claim against Leisure Center. The Arbitration Agreement states
that it is “binding on all parties. including the Resident's representatives,
executors, family members, and heirs who bring any claims individually or
in a representative capacity” [emphasis added], and that the Resident’s “family
members . . . execute this Agreement below on the signature line are doing so
not only in their representative capacity for the Resident, but also in their
individual capacity.” (Reyes Decl., Exhibit A.) There is no dispute that Lida
signed the Arbitration Agreement and her wrongful death claim would be within
the purview of the Arbitration Agreement. 
 
California Code of Civil Procedure, “Section 1281.2,
subdivision (c) gives a trial court discretion to deny a motion to compel
arbitration as to all or part of an arbitrable controversy when ‘[a] party to
the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or special
proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or series of
related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a
common issue of law or fact.’”(Hearden, supra, 103 Cal.App.5th at p. 1017.)

 
“The court's discretion under section 1281.2, subdivision
(c) does not come into play until it is ascertained that the subdivision
applies, which requires the threshold determination of whether there are
nonarbitrable claims against at least one of the parties to the litigation
(e.g., a nonsignatory).” (Avila v. S. California Specialty Care, Inc. (2018)
 20 Cal.App.5th 835, 840.) 
 
Here, Leisure Center argues that Lida’s wrongful death claim
would be subject to arbitration because under section 1281.2, subdivision (c)
would not apply, given that the section states “[t]his subdivision shall not be
applicable to an agreement to arbitrate disputes as to the professional
negligence of a health care provider made pursuant to Section 1295.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2(c).) Section 1295 “contemplates arbitration agreements to
resolve disputes concerning ‘professional negligence’ . . . .” (Ruiz, supra,
50 Cal.4th at p. 844.)
 
Leisure Center again points to Ruiz, which concluded
that “all wrongful death claimants are bound by arbitration agreements entered
into pursuant to section 1295, at least when, as here, the language of the
agreement manifests an intent to bind these claimants.”(Ruiz, supra, 50
Cal.4th at p. 841.) Firstly, as stated above, Ruiz is inapplicable in
the present instance because Lida, rather than Decedent herself, signed the
Arbitration Agreement without any evidence demonstrating that she had the
authority to do so. 
 
Secondly, even if the holding of Ruiz were
applicable, Lida’s wrongful death claim would still not be compelled to
arbitration under Ruiz. Plaintiffs’ complaint does not allege
professional negligence or medical malpractice, but rather elder abuse and
general negligence. (Compl.) While the complaint “includes allegations that
could be categorized as professional negligence as well as elder abuse” and there
could be “some overlap between the two,” Plaintiffs’ claims do not fall within
the purview of section 1295. (Avila, supra, 20 Cal.App.5th at p. 843.) “What
matters is . . .  the basis of the claims
as pleaded in the complaint. If the primary basis for the wrongful death claim
sounds in professional negligence . . . , then section 1295 applies. If, as
plaintiffs claim here, the primary basis is under the Elder Abuse and Dependent
Adult Civil Protection Act (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15600 et seq.), then section
1295 does not apply . . . .” (Id. at p. 842.) Thus, Plaintiffs’,
including Lida’s, wrongful death claim is not included in section 1295, and
therefore, section 1281.2 subdivision (c)’s exemption does not apply. 
 
However, Leisure Center also contends that Lida’s wrongful
death claim is subject to arbitration because the Arbitration Agreement that
Lida signed states that California Code of Civil Procedure Section 1281.2,
subdivision (c) “is excluded from this Agreement,” and specifically, that the
Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) applies (Reyes Decl., Exhibit A.) Leisure Center
specifically contends that because the FAA applies, section 1281.2, subdivision
(c) should not apply. Leisure Center is correct. 
 
In Volt, the Court held that because the FAA
“contains no provision design to deal with the special practical problem that
arise in multiparty contractual disputes” and “California has taken the lead in
fashioning a legislative repones to this problem” in the form of section 1281.2,
subdivision (c), the FAA did “not prevent application of Cal. Civ. Proc. Code
Ann. § 1281.2(c) to stay arbitration where, as here, the parties have agreed to
arbitrate in accordance with California law.” (Volt Info. Sciences v.
Leland Stanford Jr. U. (1989) 489 U.S. 468, 479.) However, the
Arbitration Agreement here explicitly states that it is to be governed by the
FAA. 
 
In Cronus, the Court similarly held that the “spirit”
of the FAA is not frustrated by section 1281.2, subdivision (c). (Cronus
Invs., Inc. v. Concierge Servs (2005) 35 Cal.4th 376, 391.)  However, the court concluded that “its opinion
does not preclude parties to an arbitration agreement to expressly
designate that any arbitration proceeding should move forward under the FAA's
procedural provisions rather than under state procedural law.” (Cronus,
supra, 35 Cal.4th at p. 394.) Here, the Arbitration Agreement expressly
states that the FAA is to apply. 

Because the Arbitration Agreement explicitly references the application of the
FAA, the Court cannot look to section 1281.2, subdivision (c) to allow Lida to litigate
her wrongful death claim. (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman Properties 8 LLC
(2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 342–43 [“The parties incorporated the procedural
provisions of the FAA into the Agreement; thus the court could not look to
Section 1281.2(c) to deny the [] motion.”].)
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing reasons, Leisure Center’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration and to Stay Proceedings is granted only as to Lida’s wrongful death
claim. The rest of Leisure Center’s Motion is denied.  
 