  Case Number:  22VECV01159    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  W Faustino Pacheco Morales v. RAVIT ohana
and Sharon Ohana
 
Motion TO INTERVENE 
 
Date of
Hearing:   November 14, 2024           Trial Date:       None
set. 
Department:         W                                       Case No.:
        22VECV01159
 
Moving Party:             Prospective Intervenor Brenda E.
Vargas
Responding
Parties:    Defendants Ravit Ohana and
Sharon Ohana 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This
case arises from Plaintiff Faustino Pacheco Morales (Plaintiff) providing
contracting services to Defendants Ravit Ohana and Sharon Ohana (Defendants),
totaling $74,860.00. According to the first amended complaint, Defendants have
failed to pay Plaintiff for his services. 
 
On
August 13, 2022, Plaintiff Faustino Pacheco Morales filed a complaint against
Defendants Ravit Ohana and Sharon Ohana. On April 13, 2023, Plaintiff filed the
operative first amended complaint (FAC) against Defendants, alleging causes of
action for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Common Counts, and (3) Quantum Meruit. 
 
On
November 9, 2023, this Court entered a default judgment against Defendants in
the amount of $99,380.40. On March 12, 2024, this Court set aside and vacated
the judgment entered against Defendants.
 
On
November 27, 2023, Plaintiff filed an Acknowledgment of Assignment, wherein he
transferred and assigned all title rights and interest in the judgment to his
attorney Brenda E. Vargas (Ms. Vargas). 
 
On
March 25, 2024, Defendants filed both an answer to the FAC and a
Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff for Disgorgement. 
 
On
May 28, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Substitution of Attorney to substitute Ms.
Vargas for himself.  
 
On
August 28, 2024, Ms. Vargas filed the instant motion to intervene.
 
On
October 30, 2024, Defendants filed an opposition. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Prospective
Intervenor Brenda E. Vargas’s Motion to Intervene is DENIED. 
 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 387, subdivision (d) provides the following: 
 
(1) The court shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to
intervene in the action or proceeding if either of the following conditions is
satisfied:  
 
(A) A
provision of law confers an unconditional right to intervene. 
 
(B) The person seeking intervention claims an interest relating to
the property or transaction that is the subject of the action and that person
is so situated that the disposition of the action may impair or impede that
person’s ability to protect that interest, unless that person’s interest is
adequately represented by one or more of the existing parties. 
 
(2) The court may, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to
intervene in the action or proceeding if the person has an interest in the
matter in litigation, or in the success of either of the parties, or an
interest against both. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 387(d).)  
 
Whether
the petitioner has an interest in the matter in litigation is a question of
fact that must be determined by the court before leave to file is granted. (Muller
v. Robinson (1959) 174 Cal.App.2d 511, 515; In re Yokohama Special Bank (1948)
86 Cal.App.2d 545.) The burden rests on the one seeking to intervene to show that
this is a proper case for intervention. (Id. at p. 515.) 
 
With
respect to permissive intervention, “[w]hen the proper procedures are followed,
the trial court has the discretion to permit a nonparty to intervene in
litigation pending between others, provided that (1) the nonparty has a direct
and immediate interest in the action; (2) the intervention will not enlarge the
issues in the litigation; and (3) the reasons for intervention outweigh any
opposition by the parties presently in the action.”  (Noya v. A.W.
Coulter Trucking (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 838, 842 (quoting Truck Ins.
Exchange v. Superior Court (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 342, 346).)  
 
“A
trial court has broad discretion in determining whether to permit intervention.
[Citations.]”
(City of Malibu v. California Coastal Com. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 897,
902.) 
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
 
Defendants
are requesting for the Court to take judicial notice of the State Bar Notice of
Disciplinary Charges filed March 3, 2023 against Ms. Vargas; State Bar Notice
of Disciplinary Charges filed August 15, 2023 filed against Ms. Vargas; the California
Supreme Court Order of Final Discipline filed May 6, 2024; and a California
State Bar website printout of Breda E. Vargas’ bar association license history
printed October 23, 2024. (Judicial Notice, pages 1-2.) 
 
Pursuant
to Evidence Code Sections 451 and 452, the Court grants Defendants’ request for
judicial notice in its entirety. 
 
discussion
 
Ms.
Vargas moves to intervene on the grounds that she has an interest in the
litigation, as Plaintiff assigned his right to collect on a judgment or
settlement to Ms. Vargas, which includes assigning Plaintiff’s interest in
collecting on his alleged open invoices with Defendants. The assignment states
that Ms. Vargas is to retain 80% of the assigned claim, with Plaintiff retain
20%. (Vargas Decl., Exhibit E.) 
 
In
this matter, on March 3, 2023, the State Bar of California filed disciplinary
charges against Ms. Vargas. (Judicial Notice, Exhibits 1-2.) On May 6, 2024,
the Supreme Court of California issued its final discipline, stating that Ms.
Vargas was prohibited from practicing law for the first 18 months of her
three-year probationary period starting June 5, 2024. (Id., Exhibit 3.)
As of the date of this order, Ms. Vargas is prohibited from practicing law in
California.  
 
Business
& Professions Code, Section 6130 provides that:
 
            No person, who has been an attorney,
shall while a judgment of disbarment or 
suspension is in force appear on his own behalf as plaintiff in
the prosecution of any action where the subject of the action has been assigned
to him subsequent to the entry of the judgment of disbarment or suspension and
solely for purpose of collection.
 
Here,
Ms. Vargas has engaged in actions that fit the scenario delineated in Business
& Professions Code, Section 6130. Ms. Vargas is seeking to intervene in the
current action to collect on the interest transferred to her by Plaintiff. The
assignment explicitly states that it is made for the purpose of pursuing
Plaintiff’s collection claim. Additionally, Ms. Vargas’ motion states that Ms.
Vargas seeks to “to stand in the ‘shoes’ of the Plaintiff to collect” on the
disputed invoices. (Motion, page 5.) Lastly, the assignment was executed after
the State Bar initiated its disciplinary proceedings against Ms. Vargas. These
facts are sufficient for the Court to conclude that the assignment was made
“solely for the purpose of collection,” in violation of Business &
Professions Code, Section 6130. (See Wilde v. Superior Ct. of San Diego Cnty.
(1942) 53 Cal.App.2d 168, 188 [“However, it might not be out of place to say
that we have no sympathy with a disbarred attorney who attempts to evade the
consequences of his disbarment by purchasing claims after he is disbarred and
prosecuting them in court in his own name and propria persona.”].) 
 
However,
disregarding the application of Business & Professions Code, Section 6130,
Ms. Vargas does not meet the standard for either intervention as a matter of
right or permissive intervention. Ms. Vargas is attempting to intervene in the
current matter to collect on the invoices that Defendants have allegedly not
paid, given that Plaintiff assigned part of his interest in his claim to Ms.
Vargas. (Vargas Decl., Exhibits D, E.) However, Plaintiff still retains a 20%
interest in the financial outcome of the case, thus showing that Plaintiff can
adequately represent Ms. Vargas’ interest because both have the similar
interest of collecting on the alleged unpaid invoices. This is further
supported by Ms. Vargas’ prospective complaint, which is based on the same
facts and same causes of action as Plaintiff’s complaint. (Vargas, Decl.) Thus,
Ms. Vargas does not have a right to intervene, and the Court, in its discretion
declines to permit Ms. Vargas to intervene. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the
foregoing, Prospective Intervenor Brenda E. Vargas’s Motion to Intervene 
is denied. 
 