 Case Number:  22STCV25044    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  23, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV25044




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Deposition of Defendant




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Ciara M.




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Jeremey Ellis



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On August 3, 2022, Plaintiff Ciara M. (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Defendant Jeremey Ellis (“Defendant”) for intentional
misrepresentation, and negligence regarding sexual transmission of a disease. Defendant
filed an answer on January 27, 2023. 
 
Plaintiff now moves to compel Defendant’s deposition. Plaintiff also
seeks monetary sanctions. Defendant opposes and Plaintiff replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with
both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Tuan Ho states that on November 16, 2023, he
attempted to meet and confer by requesting alternative deposition dates from
Defendant. (Ho Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. D.) Therefore, the meet and confer requirement
has been met. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
On November 3, 2023, Plaintiff noticed Defendant’s remote deposition,
set for November 28, 2023. (Ho Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) On November 15, 2023, Defendant
served an objection based on the fact the date was unilaterally selected. (Id.
¶ 2, Exh. C.) Plaintiff requested alternative dates and waited three weeks, but
Defendant did not respond. (Id. ¶ 3, Exh. D.) As a result, on December
4, 2023, Plaintiff noticed the remote deposition for a second time, set for
December 19, 2023. (Id., Exh. E.) On December 14, 2023, Defendant served
another objection based on unavailability of counsel and arguing the deposition
was burdensome since Plaintiff’s case was meritless. (Id., Exh. F.) 
 
In opposition, Defendant argues he raised valid objections and
produced negative test results which undermine the basis for Plaintiff’s
action. (Opp., 4.) 
 
Though Defendant served objections, and while unavailability for a unilaterally
selected date may be a reasonable objection, Defendant thereafter did not
respond to requests for a mutually convenient date. This conduct undermines the
validity of the objection. Also, though Defendant argues this case is
meritless, Defendant has not filed a dispositive motion. Therefore, the Court
declines to decide issues on the merits in the form of a discovery motion. Accordingly, the motion to compel is
granted. 
 
Plaintiff requests $1,985 in monetary sanctions against Defendant, representing
a $350 hourly rate, and the $60 filing fee. (Ho Decl. ¶ 5.) The Court finds
that sanctions are warranted, however the amount is excessive due to the type
of motion at issue. Therefore, the Court grants monetary sanctions in the
amount of $585 (1.5 hours of attorney time, plus the filing fee).  
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Defendant’s deposition is GRANTED. Defendant Jeremey Ellis shall
appear within 30 days’ notice of this order for a deposition.
 
The Court further grants Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions in
the reduced amount of $585.00 against Defendant Jeremey Ellis. Said monetary
sanctions shall be paid to counsel for Plaintiff within 30 days of this order. 
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 