 Case Number:  23STCV13465    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  23, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV13465




MOTIONS:  


Relief
  from Waiver of Discovery Objections




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Los Angeles Dodgers, LLC  




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Jamie Merchain 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant Los Angeles Dodgers,
LLC (“Defendant”), moves for relief from waiver of objections to Plaintiff Jamie
Merchain’s (“Plaintiff”) Request for Production, Set One, number 7. Plaintiff
opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
A party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for inspection
waives any objection to the demand, including based on privilege or work
product, unless the court finds that the party has subsequently served a
response that is in substantial compliance and the party’s failure was the
result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).) 
 
The Civil Discovery Act does not include a definition of
“substantial compliance,” and few cases have addressed the circumstances under
which a response will be deemed not in substantial compliance. (See St. Mary
v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 778 (St. Mary).)
Substantial compliance means actual compliance with respect to the substance
essential to every reasonable objective of the statute. (Id. at 779.)
However, substantial compliance should not be understood as requiring actual
compliance with every specific statutory requirement. (Ibid.)¿¿ 
¿ 
A court may not find that only some portions of a document
containing responses are code-compliant, but must instead determine whether the document as whole
substantially complies. (St. Mary, supra, 223 Cal.App.4th at 779–80
[this position is supported by the fact that there is an effective statutory
vehicle to compel a responding party to cure unsatisfactory responses].)¿ 
 
The
statutory language “mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect” in the
discovery statute should be interpreted using the same general principles
developed in application of the identical language in section 473, subdivision
(b). (Scottsdale Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 263,
275.) Although the party moving for relief under section 473 has the burden to
show that the mistake, inadvertence, or neglect was excusable, any doubts as to
that showing must be resolved in favor of the moving party. (New Albertsons,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1420.)¿¿ 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff served Request for Production, Set One on Defendant on July
28, 2023. (Motion, 4.) Defendant did not respond by the deadline, and on
January 18, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s opposed motion to compel.
Defendant was ordered to provide verified responses, without objection, to the
discovery within 30 days. (Min. Order, 1/18/24.) Defendant served responses on
January 17, 2024 and then amended responses on February 19, 2024 that it
believes resolve all outstanding issues except for the issue in this motion.
(Robie Decl. ¶ 9–11.) 
 
Defendant now moves for relief from the waiver of objections to
Request for Production, Set One, number 7. The declaration of Leigh P. Robie
(“Counsel”), in support of this motion, states that on September 1, 2023,
Counsel joined her current firm Long & Levit, and had to transfer all her
emails and calendars to the new firm’s system. (Robie Decl. ¶ 5.) Counsel
declares that “[r]egrettably, the deadlines in the instant case were
inadvertently not included in my Long & Levit calendar, leaving me unaware
of discovery response deadlines in the case.” (Ibid.) Counsel also
states that throughout September and December 2023, she was supervising the
buildout of new office space for her firm, which took more time than
anticipated, and assisting in trials. (Id. at 6–7.) 
 
The Court has reviewed Defendant’s verified response to Plaintiff’s
Request for Production, Set One. (Robie Decl., Exh. 2.) The Court finds them to
be in substantial compliance. 
 
However, discovery responses were due August 25, 2023. (See Min.
Order, 1/18/24; Opp., 2.) The declaration of counsel does not explain why no
responses were timely served. The declaration only explains why the deadlines
were not included in counsel’s new firm’s calendar, after September 1, 2023. In
addition, Plaintiff’s opposition refers to another counsel who on September 3,
2023, requested an extension to serve responses by September 29. In Defendant’s
reply brief, that counsel submitted a declaration which does not address why
responses were not timely served by August 25. As a result, Defendant has not
shown that failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s Motion for Relief from Waiver of Discovery Objections
is DENIED.
 
Moving
party to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 
 
 