 Case Number:  20STCV48494    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


April
  23, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV48494




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Defendant’s Attendance at Deposition




MOVING PARTY:


Cross-Complainant’s Grayson Davila,
  Haley Davila, Kayla Davila, and Natalie Davila 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendants/Cross
  Defendants America’s Bin Company, Inc. and Jaime Gonzalez 



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Cross-Complainants’
Grayson Davila, Haley Davila, Kayla Davila, and Natalie Davila (“Cross-Complainants”)
move to compel Defendant Jaime Rafael Duran Gonzalez’s (“Gonzalez”)
attendance at a deposition. Cross-Complainants also seek monetary
sanctions. Defendants/Cross
Defendants America’s Bin Company, Inc. and Jaime Gonzalez (“Defendants”)
oppose and Cross-Complainants reply. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with
both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Emily Pincin indicates that a meet and confer took
place during the December 14, 2023 deposition after Gonzalez did not appear.
(Pincin Decl. ¶ 7.)  
 
DISCUSSION
 
This case is a wrongful death and survival action which alleges that
Gonzalez was driving a truck while in the scope of employment with America’s Bin
Company, Inc., and caused injuries and death to decedent Aaron Davila.
(Second Amended Complaint filed 6/12/23, ¶ 19–22.) The case was originally
filed on December 18, 2020. 
 
On July 7, 2021, counsel for America’s Bin Company, Inc. filed an
answer on Gonzalez’s behalf.
 
On November 15, 2023, Cross-Complainants noticed Gonzalez’s
deposition, set for December 14, 2023. (Pincin Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) In the email
containing the notice, Cross-Complainants’ counsel indicated that the date
could be rescheduled if Defendants provided alternative dates. (Id.,
Exh. 2.) On November 20, 2023, Defendants’ counsel advised they would not
produce Gonzalez because they could not reach him. (Id. ¶ 4, Exh. 3.) 
 
On
December 6, 2023, Defendants served an objection on the basis that the date was
unilaterally noticed. (Id. ¶ 5, Exh. 4.) In response, Cross-Complainants
asked for alternative dates, but none were provided. (Id. ¶ 6, Exh. 5.) 
 
At
the December 14, 2023 deposition, Defendants’ counsel appeared but not
Gonzalez. (Id. ¶ 7.) A certificate of non-appearance was obtained.
Defendants’ counsel indicated that they appeared on behalf of Gonzalez in this
case while he was still employed with America’s Bin Company, Inc. However, he
is no longer employed, and counsel asserted they had no control over him
appearing. (Id., Exh. 6, 4:15–21.) 
 
In
opposition, Defendants’ counsel contends that after Cross-Complainants filed
this motion, they were able to successfully contact Gonzalez to obtain
information for other discovery responses. (Pascale Decl. ¶ 5.) However,
counsel asserts Gonzalez has not been responsive to attempts to contact him via
phone or email. Counsel declares that a manager for America’s Bin Company is
attempting to contact Gonzalez so his deposition may be scheduled. (Id.
¶ 6.) 
 
It
does not appear that Defendants’ counsel has sought to be relieved as counsel
for Gonzalez. Therefore, because the objection did not specify an irregularity
under section 2025.210 et seq., and Gonzalez did not appear at the deposition,
the motion to compel is granted. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.410(a).)
 
Cross-Complainants
requests $2,000 in monetary sanctions against Gonzalez and his counsel,
representing a $400 hourly rate, the $60 filing fee, and the December 14, 2023
deposition cost of $780.85. (Pincin Decl. ¶ 13–14.) Sanctions are warranted but
the request is excessive. Accordingly, the Court awards sanctions as to
Defendant only in the amount of $1,240.85 (1 hour of attorney time, the
deposition cost, and filing fee). However, given that Defendant’s counsel does
not appear to have counseled the discovery abuse, the Court declines to award
sanctions as to counsel.  
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Cross-Complainants’
motion to compel Defendant Jaime Rafael Duran Gonzalez to attend his deposition
is GRANTED. Defendant/Cross Defendant Jaime Rafael Duran Gonzalez shall
appear within 20 days’ notice of this order for a deposition.
 
Defendant shall pay $1,240.85 to counsel for Cross-Complainants within
30 days.
 
Cross-Complainants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file
a proof of service of such. 
 