 Case Number:  21STCV01578    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  45 Superior Court of
California
County
of Los Angeles
 



 
LARISA
  STEPANTSOVA, LANA KRUGLYAKOVA,
 
                             Plaintiffs,
 
                              vs.
 
DOCS SURGICAL
  HOSPITAL, RAJAN PATEL, M.D., ERNEST SCHMIDT, M.D. and DOES 1 through 100,
  inclusive,
 
                              Defendants.
 


Case No.:  21STCV01578
DEPARTMENT
  45
 
 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
 
 
 
Action
  Filed:  01/14/2021
Trial
  Date:      01/21/2025
 



 
Hearing date:              November 7, 2024
Moving Party:             Defendant
DOCS Surgical Hospital
Responding Parties:
   Plaintiffs Larisa Stepantsova and Lana
Kruglyakova
 
Motion for Summary Judgment
 
The Court has
considered the moving, opposition and reply papers. 
The Court GRANTS Defendant DOCS Surgical Hospital’s motion for summary
judgment. 
 
Background
            This case arises from the death of
Vyacheslav Stepantsov (Mr. Stepantsov or Decedent), following a surgical
procedure called a right shoulder arthroplasty that was performed on January
16, 2020. (Compl., ¶ 11.) After the procedure finished, Mr. Stepantsov was
placed in the Post-Anesthesia Care Unit (PACU) of Defendant DOCS Surgical
Hospital’s facility. (Ibid.) In a state of emergency, Mr. Stepantsov was
then transferred to Cedars Sinai Medical Center, where Mr. Stepantsov was in
critical condition. (Ibid) Mr. Stepantsov remained at Cedars Sinai
Medical Center until his death on January 25, 2020. (Ibid.) 
            On January 12, 2021, Plaintiffs
Larisa Stepantsova and Lana Kruglyakova (Plaintiffs) filed a complaint against
Defendants DOCS Surgical Hospital (DOCS Surgical); Rajan Patel, M.D. (Patel);
and Ernest Schmidt, M.D. (Schmidt) for Wrongful Death arising from Medical
Negligence. 
            On August 19, 2024, DOCS Surgical
filed the instant motion for summary judgment (MSJ), along with a Separate
Statement of Undisputed Material Facts (UMF). 
            On
October 23, 2024, Plaintiffs filed an opposition to the motion (Opposition),
along with a Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts (RUMF). 
            On
November 1, 2024, DOCS Surgical filed a reply. 
 
Legal
Standard
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v.
Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 
“A party may move for summary adjudication
as to one or more causes of action within an action, one or more affirmative
defenses, one or more claims for damages, or one or more issues of duty, if
that party contends that the cause of action has no merit or that there is no
affirmative defense thereto, or that there is no merit to an affirmative
defense as to any cause of action, or both, or that there is no merit to a
claim for damages . . . or that one or more defendants either owed or did not
owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.  A motion for summary
adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of
action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of
duty.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)  A motion for
summary adjudication shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for
summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(f)(2).)   
“[T]he initial burden is always on the
moving party to make a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of
material fact.”  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A defendant moving for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of
action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).)  A moving defendant need not conclusively negate an element of
plaintiff’s cause of action.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 854.) 
To meet this burden of showing a cause of
action cannot be established, a defendant must show not only “that the
plaintiff does not possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain needed evidence.” (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 854.) It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out
the absence of evidence.  (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th
884, 891.)  The defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff
cannot reasonably obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”  (Ibid.)¿
The supporting evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations,
admissions, depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which
judicial notice may be taken.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th
at p. 855.) 
“Once the defendant . . . has met that
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue
of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense
thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  The plaintiff
may not merely rely on allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a
triable issue of material fact exists, but instead, “shall set forth the
specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the
cause of action.”  (Ibid.)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so,
summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical
Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) 
The court must “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all
doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party,” including “all
inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”  (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc.
(2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037; Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp.
844-45.)  “On a summary judgment motion, the court must therefore consider
what inferences favoring the opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw
from the evidence.  While viewing the evidence in this manner, the court
must bear in mind that its primary function is to identify issues rather than
to determine issues.  [Citation.]  Only when the inferences are
indisputable may the court decide the issues as a matter of law.  If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.”  (Binder
v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)  
Further, “the trial court may not weigh
the evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more
likely true.  [Citation.]  Nor may the trial court grant summary
judgment based on the court’s evaluation of credibility. 
[Citation.]”  (Id. at p. 840; see also Weiss v. People ex
rel.  Department of Transportation (2020) 9 Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts
deciding motions for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not weigh the
evidence but must instead view it in the light most favorable to the opposing
party and draw all reasonable inferences in favor of that
party”].)   
  
Evidentiary
Objections 
Plaintiffs submit two (2) objections to
the Declaration of Richard Ruffalo, M.D. based on a lack of foundation,
improper expert opinion, and impermissible expert opinion. 
In granting or denying a motion for
summary judgment, the court need rule only on those objections to evidence that
it deems material to its disposition of the motion. Objections to evidence
that are not ruled on for purposes of the motion shall be preserved for
appellate review. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (q).)  
Both objections are overruled. 
 
Separate Statement

            Plaintiffs
argue that DOCS Surgical’s motion for summary judgment must be denied on the
basis that its Separate Statement of Undisputed Facts (UMF) is procedurally
defective. 
According to California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(c)(2), when filing a motion for summary judgment,
the motion “must contain and be supported” by a “[s]eparate statement of
undisputed material facts in support of [moving party's] motion for
summary judgment or summary adjudication or both.” The Separate Statement in
support of a motion for summary judgment “[t]he separate statement must be in
the two-column format . . . . The statement must state in numerical sequence
the undisputed material facts in the first column followed by the evidence that
establishes those undisputed facts in that same column. Citation to the
evidence in support of each material fact must include reference to the
exhibit, title, page, and line numbers.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(d)(3).)

             Here, DOCS Surgical’s UMF is procedurally
defective as it does not comply with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(d)(3).
DOCS Surgical fails to cite page or paragraph numbers for critical evidence.
Specifically for facts 19-21, DOCS Surgical cites Dr. Ruffalo’s declaration,
but DOCS Surgical fails to identify a specific page, paragraph, or line within
the declaration, merely referencing “Ruffalo Dec.” However, the Court finds
that DOCS Surgical’s UMF is not so “inadequate as to preclude a ruling on the
merits of the motion.” (Parkview Villas Assn., Inc. v. State Farm Fire &
Cas. Co. (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197, 1212 [“[A] trial court faced with an
opposing party's defective separate statement plainly indicating which proposed
material facts are disputed and including at least general references to the
evidence supporting its position does not have the discretion to enter a
judgment against that party solely as a result of that party's failure to
explain the nature of the dispute and to provide sufficiently specific
citations to the evidence supporting its position.”].) Thus,
the Court will consider DOCS Surgical’s motion on the merits.
 
Discussion
            DOCS Surgical moves for summary
judgment on the grounds that (1) Plaintiffs cannot establish the necessary
elements for their cause of action for Wrongful Death (Medical Negligence)
because DOCS Surgical complied with the applicable standard of care and the
conduct of DOCS Surgical was not a substantial factor in causing any of the
alleged damages; and (2) DOCS Surgical is not responsible for the conduct of
physicians including the physician defendants in this case because Mr.
Stepantsov signed “Consent of Admission to DOCS Surgical Hospital”
acknowledging that all physicians and surgeons including anesthesiologist are
independent contractors and are not employed or agents of the hospital. (MSJ,
p. 2.) 
            The specific
elements of both medical malpractice and professional negligence are: “(1) the
duty of the professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other
members of his profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that
duty; (3) a proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the
resulting injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the
professional's negligence.”  Simmons v. West Covina Medical Clinic
(1989) 212 Cal. App. 3d 696, 701-02 (citations omitted). 
 
Standard
of Care
            DOCS Surgical moves for summary
judgment on the basis that, as a matter of law, it complied with the standard
of care at all times in their care and treatment of Mr.
Stepantsov. (MSJ, page 8.) 
            The
standard of care in medical malpractice cases requires that a physician “possess
and exercise, in both diagnosis and treatment, that reasonable degree of
knowledge and skill which is ordinarily possessed and exercised by other
members of his profession in similar circumstances.” (Landeros v. Flood (1976)17
Cal.3d 399, 408.) “The standard of care against which the acts of a physician
are to be measured is a matter peculiarly within the knowledge of experts; it
presents the basic issue in a malpractice action and can only be proved by
their testimony, unless the conduct required by the particular circumstances is
within the common knowledge of the layman.” (Sinz v. Owens (1949) 33
Cal.2d 749, 753.) Expert testimony is required to “prove or disprove that the
defendant performed in accordance with the standard of care.” (Kelley v.
Trunk (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 519, 523.) 
A defendant
moving for summary judgment in a medical malpractice action must “present
evidence that would preclude a reasonable trier of fact from finding it was
more likely than not that their treatment fell below the standard of
care.”  (Johnson v. Superior Court (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 297,
305.)  “When a defendant moves for summary judgment and supports his
motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within the community
standard of care, he is entitled to summary judgment unless the plaintiff comes
forward with conflicting expert evidence.”  (Munro v. Regents of
University of California (1989) 215 Cal.3d 977, 984-985.) 
Here, DOCS Surgical
has provided expert testimony that it had complied with the applicable standard
of care. DOCS Surgical has presented expert opinion by way of the Declaration
of Richard Ruffalo, M.D., PharmD (anesthesiologist) that the non-physician care
provided by DOCS Surgical after Mr. Stepantsov was placed in the PACU unit
complied with the applicable standard of care. (Ruffalo Decl., ¶ 25.) Dr.
Ruffalo declares that in his expert opinion, the provided non-physician care to
Mr. Stepantsov were always within the standard of care because the nursing
staff appropriately monitored Mr. Stepantsov’s condition through “neuro checks
and blood pressure, heart rate, and oxygen saturation checks,” appropriately
reported Mr. Stepantsov’s condition to the anesthesiologist on a regular basis,
and appropriately complied with orders given by the anesthesiologist.” (Id. at
¶ 26.) 
The burden
shifts. 
In opposition,
Plaintiffs provide the expert testimony of Davina Leary, R.N., CCM. 
Nurse Leary
states that in she has reviewed the following documents in rendering her expert
opinion: : (a) Mr. Stepantsov’s medical chart from DOCS Surgical Hospital; (b)
a transcript of the deposition of Felicia Armstead Watt, R.N.; (c) Vyacheslav
Stepantsov’s records from Cedars Sinai Medical Center; (d) defendant Ernest
Schmidt, M.D.’s responses to Request for Admissions, set one; and (e) the
declaration of defense expert Richard Ruffalo, M.D. (Leary Decl., ¶ 5.) Nurse
Leary declares that in her opinion, the care and treatment of Docs Surgical
rendered to Mr. Stepantsov fell below the applicable standard of care (Id. at
¶ 9.) Firstly, Nurse Leary rendered the opinion that DOCS Surgical fell below
the applicable standard of care because it failed “to implement an appropriate
chain of command that would have enabled Nurse Watt to obtain necessary care
for Mr. Stepantsov when Dr. Schmidt did not adequately respond to a developing
medical emergency.” (Id. at ¶ 10.) Nurse Leary states that the standard
of care requires “the existence of a clear chain of command, providing nurses
like Watt with the ability to contact the medical director or another
supervisory authority to secure lifesaving medical intervention.” (Ibid.)
Additionally, Nurse Leary states that in her opinion, DOCS Surgical violated
the applicable standard of care because it failed “to ensure that functional
blood pressure and respiratory alarms were activated on the PACU monitors,”
which “promptly detect adverse and potentially life-threatening clinical
events,” thus “enabling timely recognition and intervention by nurses and physicians.”
(Id. at ¶ 11.) 
Because
Plaintiffs have provided the conflicting expert testimony of Nurse Leary, there
is a triable issue of fact regarding whether DOCS Surgical fell below the
applicable standard of care. 
 
 
Causation        
DOCS Surgical moves for summary judgment
on the additional basis that, to a reasonable degree of medical probability,
any act or omission of DOCS Surgical did not cause, contribute, or were a
substantial factor to Mr. Stepantsov’s death. (MSJ, page 10.)
To support an action based on medical malpractice,
a plaintiff must prove not only that a defendant’s conduct was below the
standard of care, but also that the defendant’s negligence was the legal cause
of plaintiff’s injuries or death. (Jennings v. Palomar Pomerado Health Sys.,
Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 1108, 1118.) “The law is well settled that in a
personal injury action causation must be proven within a reasonable medical
probability based [on] competent expert testimony. Mere possibility alone is
insufficient to establish a prima facie case. [Citations.] That there is a
distinction between a reasonable medical ‘probability’ and a medical
‘possibility’ needs little discussion. There can be many possible ‘causes,’
indeed, an infinite number of circumstances [that] can produce an injury or
disease. A possible cause only becomes ‘probable’ when, in the absence of other
reasonable causal explanations, it becomes more likely than not that the injury
was a result of its action. This is the outer limit of inference upon which an
issue may be submitted to the jury. [Citation.]” (Ibid. quoting Jones
v. Ortho Pharmaceutical Corp. (1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 396, 402–403; Osborn
v. Irwin Memorial Blood Bank (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 234, 253 [although
plaintiff need not eliminate any possibility that defendant's conduct was not a
cause, he must introduce “evidence from which reasonable [people] may conclude
that it is more probable that the event was caused by the defendant than that
it was not”].)
Here, DOCS
Surgical has provided expert testimony that, to a reasonable medical
probability, its actions were not the legal cause of Mr. Stepantsov’s death. DOCS
Surgical has presented expert opinion by way of the Declaration of Richard
Ruffalo, M.D., PharmD (anesthesiologist) that to a reasonably degree of medical
probability, no act or omission by DOCS Surgical on January 16, 2020 caused or
contributed to any of Mr. Stepantsov’s alleged injuries because Mr. Stepantsov was
properly monitored and his condition was appropriately reported to the
anesthesiologist on a regular basis, orders by the anesthesiologist were
appropriately followed, and the anesthesiologist assumed care of Mr. Stepantsov
at approximately 1:30 p.m. (Ruffalo Decl., ¶ 27.) 
The burden
shifts. 
In opposition,
Plaintiffs provide the expert testimony of Davina Leary, R.N., CCM and Rajesh
Shankar, M.D., F.A.S.A. According to both Nurse Leary and Dr. Shankar, DOCS
Surgical, to a reasonable degree of medical probability, DOCS Surgical’s
conduct were substantial factors in causing Mr. Stepantsov’s injuries and death.
(Leary Decl., ¶ 12; Shankar Decl., ¶¶ 6, 7, 8, 9.) Specifically, Dr. Shankur
opines that “with proper PACU care Mr. Stepantsov’s hypotension could have been
addressed before he suffered a decrease in cerebral blood flow that would
result in neurological injury. The delay in care resulting from these breaches
was a substantial factor in causing the systemic hypotension, which in turn led
to cerebral hypotension and the subsequent neurological injury.” (Shankur
Decl., ¶ 8.) Further, Dr. Shankur that his opinion is not supported by the “clinical
analysis of the physicians caring for Stepantsov at CSMC, [which include] the
findings of his MRI study of 1-17-20, but [also] is congruous with Mr. Stepantsov’s
likely intraoperative and postoperative cerebral hypotension at a level lower
than his lower limit of autoregulation.” (Id. at ¶ 7.) 
Further, Nurse
Leary states that in her professional opinion and to a reasonable degree of
nursing probability, DOCS Surgical’s failure to establish an appropriate chain
of command to allow timely physician intervention, and the absence of
functional blood pressure and respiratory alarms, which delayed the recognition
of Mr. Stepantsov’s deteriorating condition by other healthcare providers were
actions that “resulted in further injury to Mr. Stepantsov.” (Leary Decl., ¶
12.)  
Because
Plaintiffs have provided the conflicting expert testimony of Dr. Shankar and
Nurse Leary, there is a triable issue of fact regarding whether DOCS Surgical’s
conduct legally caused Mr. Stepantsov’s death. 
 
Vicarious Liability and Ostensible Agency 
DOCS Surgical moves for summary judgment
on the additional basis that there was no actual or ostensible agency on behalf
of the caring physicians of Mr. Stepantsov, so DOCS Surgican
cannot be held vicariously liable. (MSJ, page 11.)
“Where a patient
seeks to hold a hospital liable for the negligence of a physician, the doctrine
of ostensible agency is now commonly expressed as having two elements: 
‘(1) conduct by the hospital that would cause a reasonable person to believe
that the physician was an agent of the hospital, and (2) reliance on that
apparent agency relationship by the plaintiff.’ (Mejia v. Community Hospital
of San Bernardino (2002) 99 Cal. App. 4th 1448, 1453 . . . .) 
Generally, the first element is satisfied ‘when the hospital “holds itself out”
to the public as a provider of care,’ ‘unless it gave the patient contrary
notice.’ (Id. at pp. 1453–54.)  
Reliance upon an
apparent agency is demonstrated “when the plaintiff ‘looks to’ the hospital for
services, rather than to an individual physician.” (Id. at p. 1454.) 
Ultimately, ‘there is really only one relevant factual issue: whether the
patient had reason to know that the physician was not an agent of the
hospital. As noted above, hospitals are generally deemed to have held
themselves out as the provider of services unless they gave the patient
contrary notice, and the patient is generally presumed to have looked to the
hospital for care unless he or she was treated by his or her personal
physician.  (Id. at pp. 1454–55.) 
Thus, unless the
patient had some reason to know of the true relationship between the hospital
and the physician—i.e., because the hospital gave the patient actual notice or
because the patient was treated by his or her personal physician—ostensible
agency is readily inferred. (Markow v. Rosner (2016) 3 Cal.App.5th 1027,
1038.) 
“Although the
existence of an agency relationship is usually a question of fact, it ‘becomes
a question of law when the facts can be viewed in only one way.’  In the
physician-hospital-patient context, ostensible agency is a factual issue
‘[u]nless the evidence conclusively indicates that the patient should have
known that the treating physician was not the hospital’s agent, such as when
the patient is treated by his or her personal physician’ or received actual
notice of the absence of any agency relationship.”  (Mejia, supra,
99 Cal.App.4th at pp. 1454, 1458.)  
            Here,
DOCS Surgical has presented evidence of a Condition of Admission Form, which
Mr. Stepantsov signed prior to his procedure, which Plaintiffs do not dispute.
(UMF 2 citing MSJ, Exhibit B; RUMF 2.) The Form states in Paragraph 4: 
“All physicians
and surgeons furnishing services to the patient, including radiology,
pathologist, anesthesiologist and the like, are independent contractors with
the patient and are not employed or agents of the hospital. The patient is
under the care and supervision of his/her attending physician and it is the
responsibility of the hospital and its nursing staff to carry out the
instructions of such physician. It is the responsibility of the patient's
physician or surgeon to obtain the patient's informed consent, when required,
to medical or surgical treatment, special diagnostic or therapeutic procedures,
or hospital services rendered to the patient under the general and special
instructions of the physician.” (UMF 2, citing MSJ, Exhibit B.) 
Further, Plaintiffs do not dispute that
Mr. Stepantsov was alert and oriented when signing the form, and that his
daughter “provided translation” and Mr. Stepantsov “verbalized understanding of
procedure and consent signed.” (RUMFs 3-4; see Wicks v. Antelope Valley
Healthcare Dist. (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 866, 884 [“The undisputed evidence
in this case is that defendant gave [patient] meaningful written notice,
acknowledged by [patient] at the time of admission, only a little over an hour
after he arrived at the hospital, when he was alert, oriented and cooperative,
that the staff physicians were not employees or agents.”].) Thus, DOCS Surgical
has met their burden in demonstrating that it cannot be held liable for the
purported misconduct of the caring physicians of Mr. Stepantsov. 
            The
burden shifts. 
            Plaintiffs
did not address the argument of whether DOCS Surgical can be held liable for
the conduct of Mr. Stepantsov’s caring physicians through the theory of
ostensible agency. Therefore, Plaintiffs have failed to meet their burden in
demonstrating triable issues of material fact as to ostensible agency, such
that DOCS Surgical cannot be held vicariously liable for alleged physician
misconduct in treating and caring for Mr. Stepantsov. 
 
 
The Court therefore GRANTS Defendant DOCS
Surgical Hospital’s motion for summary judgment. 
 
It is so
ordered.
 
Dated:
November 7, 2024
 
_______________________
MEL RED RECANA
Judge of the
Superior Court
 