 Case Number:  23SMCV02492    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


June
  13, 2024, continued to July 17, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV02492




MOTION


Motion
  to Compel Arbitration




MOVING PARTY


Defendant
  Frida Restaurant Beverly Hills, LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Sebastian Covarrubias



 
MOTION
 
On June 7, 2023, Plaintiff Sebastian Covarrubias (“Plaintiff”) brought
this California Private Attorney Generals Act (“PAGA”) action individually and
on behalf of all aggrieved employees against Defendant Frida Restaurant Beverly
Hills, LLC (“Defendant”), Plaintiff’s former employer.  Defendant now moves to compel Plaintiff’s individual
claims to arbitration, based on a standalone arbitration agreement Plaintiff
signed when he was hired.  Plaintiff
opposes the motion, Defendant replies, and Plaintiff objects to the evidence
submitted with the Reply.  
 
The Court does not generally consider reply evidence, as it deprives
the opposing party of a fair opportunity to respond.  (San Diego Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells
Fargo Bank, N.A. (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 308, 316 [“due process requires a
party be fully advised of the issues to be addressed and be given adequate
notice of what facts it must rebut in order to prevail”]; see also Wall
Street Network Ltd. v. New York Times Co. (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th
1171.)  Therefore, to address the due
process concerns arising due to Defendant’s reply evidence, the Court continued
the hearing to allow Plaintiff to submit a sur-reply, which the Court has now
read and considered.  The parties also
subsequently filed a joint stipulation on July 12, 2024 to correct the record
that Plaintiff did work on 11 Wednesdays between May and September 2021. 
 
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
 
            Because the due process concerns
have been alleviated by the Court allowing Plaintiff to file a sur-reply, which
the Court has read and considered, in addition to the parties’ subsequent joint
stipulation to correct the record, the Court overrules Plaintiff’s evidentiary
objections to the Reply evidence in their entirety.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.    
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION – LEGAL STANDARDS
 
            “[T]he advantages of arbitration
include a presumptively less costly, more expeditious manner of resolving
disputes.  It follows a party to a valid
arbitration agreement has a contractual right to have its dispute with another
party to the contract resolved quickly and inexpensively.”  (Henry v. Alcove Investment, Inc.
(1991) 233 Cal.App.3d 94, 99–100 [cleaned up].) 
Thus, “on petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the
existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party to
the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy, the court shall order the
petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines
that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; see also 
EFund
Capital Partners v. Pless (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 1311, 1320 [the language
in section 1281.2 compelling arbitration is mandatory].) The right to compel
arbitration exists unless the court finds that the right has been waived by a
party’s conduct, other grounds exist for revocation of the agreement, or where
a pending court action arising out of the same transaction creates the possibility
of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2, subds.
(a)-(c).)    
 
            “On a petition to compel
arbitration, the trial court must first determine whether an agreement to
arbitrate the controversy exists. 
Because the existence of the agreement is a statutory prerequisite to
granting the petition, the petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence
by a preponderance of the evidence.  The
party seeking arbitration can meet its initial burden by attaching to the
petition a copy of the arbitration agreement purporting to bear the
respondent's signature.”  (Bannister
v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 543-544 [cleaned
up].)  The party seeking to compel arbitration must also “plead and prove a
prior demand for arbitration and a refusal to arbitrate under the
agreement.”  (Mansouri v. Superior
Court (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 633, 640-641.) 

 
            And while the moving party on a
motion to compel arbitration “bears the burden of proving the existence of a
valid arbitration agreement by a preponderance of the evidence, [a] party
opposing the petition bears the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
evidence any fact necessary to its defense.  The trial court sits as the
trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, and any oral testimony the court may receive at its discretion, to
reach a final determination.”  (Ruiz
v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 842 [cleaned
up]; see also Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 236 [“The party
seeking arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence of an arbitration
agreement, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of proving any
defense, such as unconscionability”].)  
 
2.    
ENFORCEABLE ARBITRATION AGREEMENTS
 
Defendant has provided the Declaration of Gilberto Romo, indicating
the following:
 
1. I am employed as the Head Chef at the Cantina
Frida restaurant in Beverly Hills, California, which is owned by Frida
Restaurant Beverly Hills, LLC (“Frida”), the Defendant in the above-entitled
action. I have personal knowledge of the facts set forth herein, which are
known by me to be true and correct, and if called as a witness, I could and
would competently testify thereto. 
 
2. In operating its restaurant in Beverly Hills,
California, Frida is engaged in interstate commerce. The food and beverages
Frida purchases to prepare its menu items are, in some cases, supplied by
vendors from outside of California. Likewise, the food and beverages (such as
Tequila and other liquor) Frida offers on its menu are, in some cases, produced
outside the United States, and in other cases produced in states outside
California. Frida is also a public restaurant located in a popular tourist location
(Beverly Hills) that serves all customers, including those from outside of
California and the United States. 
 
3. Part of my responsibilities for Frida involve
hiring employees at the restaurant. It is Frida’s policy that all of its new
employees are given the option of reviewing and filling out employment
paperwork (including agreements to arbitrate) in either English or Spanish. It
is also Frida policy that a Frida employee go over the employment paperwork
(including agreements to arbitrate) with all new employees any questions they
may have and to ensure they fully understand the paperwork they are signing. The
executed employment paperwork is then kept on site at the restaurant in each
employee’s respective files. 
 
4. Plaintiff Sebastian Covarrubias is a former
employee of Frida. At the time he was hired by Frida, Covarrubias signed a
written arbitration agreement (“Arbitration Agreement”). A true and correct
copy of the Arbitration Agreement signed by Covarrubias is attached hereto as
Exhibit A. The original Arbitration Agreement was made in the regular course of
Frida’s business, and is maintained (along with all of Frida’s other employee
files) at the restaurant. 
 
5. Mr. Covarrubias speaks both English and
Spanish, and has no difficulty understanding English.
 
6. On or about July 30, 2022, Covarrubias’
employment with Frida was terminated. A true and copy of the separation notice
from his employment file is attached hereto as Exhibit B.
 
(Romo
Decl. ¶¶ 1-6.)  Attached as Exhibit A to
the Romo Declaration is a copy of a Mutual Arbitration/Class Action Waiver
Agreement signed only by Plaintiff.  The
signature and date lines for “Vicente Del Rio, President” to sign on behalf of
Defendant are blank.  Further, the
“Employee” and “Employer” lines at the beginning of the agreement are blank.
 
Plaintiff argues that “the writing memorializing an arbitration
agreement need not be signed by both parties in order to be upheld as a binding
arbitration agreement.”  (Serafin v.
Balco Properties Ltd., LLC (235 Cal.App.4th 165, 176) (hereafter Serafin.)  
 
The Court generally agrees that an agreement to arbitrate may be
express or implied (Craig v. Brown & Root, Inc. (2000) 84
Cal.App.4th 416, 420-421) and that a writing memorializing an agreement does
not necessarily have to be signed by both parties for the Court to find the
existence of a binding agreement to arbitrate 
(Serafin, supra, 235 Cal.App.4th at p. 176.)  As the Court of Appeal has explained, “it is
not the presence or absence of a signature which is dispositive; it is
the presence or absence of evidence of an agreement to arbitrate which
matters.”  (Banner Entertainment, Inc.
v. Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 348, 361, emphases in
original.)  
 
For example, in Serafin, the employee was presented with a
“MANDATORY ARBITRATION POLICY” that indicated “Any and all claims arising out
of or in any way connected with your employment […] must be submitted to
binding arbitration.” and “All employees will be required to sign an
acknowledgment stating that they understand this policy and will comply with
it.”  (Serafin, supra, 235
Cal.App.4th at pp. 174-175.)  Thus, in Serafin,
the employer had a mandatory arbitration policy that all employees were
required to agree to, and the employee’s assent to that policy was demonstrated
by virtue of the employee’s signature (as well as by the employee’s choice to continue
employment).
 
Similarly here, Plaintiff was presented with a standalone “Mutual
Arbitration/Class Action Waiver Agreement” that provides:
 
4.         THIS
AGREEMENT CONTAINS A BINDING INDIVIDUAL ARBITRATION AGREEMENT AND CLASS ACTION
WAIVER PROVISION SUCH THAT BOTH PARTIES GIVE UP ALL RIGHTS TO A JURY TRIAL AND
TO PROCEED IN A CLASS OR MULTIPLE PARTY ACTION. […]
 
5.         This
Agreement contains all the terms, obligations and understandings between the
parties regarding its subject matter.
 
(Ex.
A to Romo Decl. at ¶¶ 4-5.)  After being
presented with the agreement, Plaintiff signed it.  
 
a.     
UNCONSCIONABILITY 
 
            “Unconscionability is ultimately a
question of law for the court.”  (Flores
v. Transamerica Homefirst, Inc. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 846, 851.)  “However, numerous factual issues may bear on
that question.” (Gutierrez v. Autowest, Inc. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 77,
89.)  As such, Plaintiff must show two
elements to establish the unconscionability defense: (1) procedural
unconscionability, which focuses on the manner in which the contract was
negotiated, and (2) substantive unconscionability, which concerns whether the
contract’s terms are unreasonably one-sided. (Armendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 113-115 (hereafter Armendariz).)

 
            “The prevailing view is that
procedural and substantive unconscionability must both be present in order for
a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause
under the doctrine of unconscionability. But they need not be present in the
same degree. Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the
regularity of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates
the terms, in proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the
substantive terms themselves.  In other
words, the more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence
of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” 
(Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 114 [cleaned up].)  
 
                                                             
i.     PROCEDURAL
UNCONSCIONABILITY 
 
Procedural unconscionability examines the “oppression
that arises from unequal bargaining power and the surprise to the weaker party
that results from hidden terms or the lack of informed choice.”  (Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012)
203 Cal.App.4th 771, 795.)  Preprinted
forms buried within a volume of documents offered on a “take or leave it basis”
evidence a high degree of procedural unconscionability.  (See Dougherty v. Roseville Heritage
Partners (2020) 47 Cal.App.5th 93, 102-104 (hereafter, Dougherty).)  Most consumer contracts are adhesive and
therefore present some procedural unconscionability. (Sanchez v. Valencia
Holding Co., LLC (2015) 61 Cal.4th 899, 915, (hereafter, Sanchez).)  “[A] finding of procedural unconscionability
does not mean that a contract will not be enforced, but rather that courts will
scrutinize the substantive terms of the contract to ensure they are not
manifestly unfair or one-sided.”  (Ibid.)  
 
Plaintiff argues that the Arbitration Agreement is procedurally
unconscionable because it was presented to him only in English and with no
language assistance, despite the fact that Plaintiff only speaks and
understands Spanish; it was offered on a take-it-or-leave-it basis; and was a
mandatory condition of employment.   In particular, Plaintiff declares in a
certified translated declaration:
 
5. Specifically, it is my understanding that
Frida is stating that I cannot pursue this case, because I signed a document in
English-only called "MUTUAL ARBITRATION / CLASS ACTION WAIVER
AGREEMENT." But I do not understand, read, or speak English and nobody
translated or explained what this document means when I signed it on May 17,
2021. 
 
6. I also learned that a chef at Frida named
Gilberto Romo is claiming that I have "no difficulty understanding
English." This is also surprising, considering that, to my recollection, I
have never met Mr. Gilberto Romo and, as discussed in this Declaration, I do
not understand, speak, read, and write English - especially, legal documents in
English.
 
7. By way of background, I was born on November
5, 1968 in Mexico City, Mexico and Spanish is my native language. 
 
8. Growing-up in Mexico City, Spanish was the
only language spoken in my home. I never attended any formal education and
worked as a general laborer in Mexico speaking only Spanish. In other words,
Spanish is the only language that I understand, read, and speak. This means
that I cannot write, speak, or understand English. 
 
9. This remains the case today even though I
moved to the United Stales in 2015 for better work opportunities. 
 
10. As part of doing so, on May 14, 2021, I
submitted an application for employment to Frida to work in the restaurant. 
 
11. I completed the application in Spanish
because I am unable to read or write in English. Attached as Exhibit A is a true
and correct copy of relevant parts or my personnel file that Frida provided lo
me, including this application. 
 
12. As part of the hiring process, I spoke with
Frida's restaurant manager, Salvador Negrete. He informed me that as a back-of-the-house
employee - specifically, a busser - that speaking and understanding English
were not essential to perform my job duties, since I will not be communicating
with customers. 
 
13. This came as a relief, because, as noted
above, I do not speak and understand English. 
 
14. After submitting my application and my
interview with Mr. Negrete, I was hired by Frida as a busser. 
 
15. Before I could work for Frida, on May 17,
2024, Mr. Negrete and I met in a small room by the kitchen. There was no one
else present during this meeting. 
 
16. At that time, he gave me a mountain of documents,
including, in addition to the "MUTUAL ARBITRATION/ CLASS ACTION WAIVER
AGREEMENT," “Workers Compensation Notice Form," "Labor Code
2810.5 Notice to Employee," “W-4," "1-9,"
"Probationary Period Agreement," "Policy Regarding Interpersonal
Relationships and Fraternization," "Uniform Policy,"
"Employee Handbook Acknowledgement," "Meal and Rest Period
Policy," "Policy Against Discrimination Harassment Bullying and
Retaliation," "Waiver of Health Coverage," and "Alcohol
Service Policy."
 
17. All of these documents were in English and I
did not understand them. Mr. Negrete just told me not worry about that and just
to sign the documents so I can begin working. 
 
18. Embarrassingly, I did not even know where to
sign the documents, because they were in English. To assist me, he highlighted
where I needed to sign. 
 
19. Feeling under duress and with no other
options, I signed the documents where he indicated that I should. 
 
20. To be clear, I was not provided an
opportunity to review the documents and the documents were never translated
from English to Spanish. 
 
21. Similarly, Frida did not provide me the
opportunity to take the documents home to review with someone that could
explain what I was signing. 
 
22. Importantly, at no time did Mr. Negrete, nor
anyone else at Frida, explain to me that by signing the "MUT UAL
ARBITRATION / CLASS ACTION WAIVER AGREEMENT" that I was waiving my right
to pursue any employment disputes in this Court.
 
23. If I understood that Frida was asking that I
waive this important right, I never would have signed that document.
 
(Covarrubias
Decl. ¶¶ 5-23.)
 
            Defendant contends that Plaintiff
does read, speak, and understand English, as evidenced by the fact that Plaintiff
completed an English-language employment application form, in which he filled
out answers in both English and Spanish languages, and provided applicable
responses to English-language prompts. 
Further, Defendant has provided the declarations of Danilo Mattos and
Yolanda Gutierrez, indicating that Plaintiff has interacted with them and with
customers in the English language. 
(Mattos Decl. ¶ 4; Gutierrez Decl. ¶ 5.) 
Defendant also provides declaratory evidence that it is Frida’s policy
to offer new hires the option to fill out their employment paperwork in the Spanish
language.  (Vargas Decl. ¶ 2; Mattos
Decl. ¶ 5; Gutierrez Decl. ¶ 7.)
 
            Upon review of Plaintiff’s
employment application, the Court notes that the only words Plaintiff wrote in the
English language are the job titles for which he was applying, “busser,
dishwasher,” and street names concerning addresses.  Otherwise, the documents were filled out
entirely in the Spanish language.
 
            Plaintiff offers a further
declaration in connection with the sur-reply that addresses Gutierrez assertion
that Gutierrez frequently interacted with Plaintiff during the evening shift on
Wednesdays, indicating that Plaintiff did not work Wednesdays.  (Further Covarrubias Decl. ¶¶ 6-7.)  But Plaintiff’s assertion is contrary to the stipulation
the parties filed, indicating that Plaintiff did work on 11 Wednesdays between
May and September 2021.
 
            Ultimately, the Court finds that the
language barrier inserted a high degree of procedural unconscionability into
arbitration agreement, as Plaintiff did not and does not read, speak, or
understand the English language, and was not presented with the forms in the Spanish
language or given an opportunity to take the forms home to review prior to
signing.  The agreement was also
presented to Plaintiff on a “take it or leave it” basis, and Plaintiff was
pressured to sign the forms without reading or understanding them in order to
obtain employment.  
 
            Therefore, the Court determines that
the agreement is highly procedurally unconscionable.
 
                                                           
ii.     SUBSTANTIVE
UNCONSCIONABILITY 
 
            Substantive unconscionability refers
to agreement terms which are overly harsh, unduly
oppressive, unreasonably unfavorable, or so one-sided as to shock the
conscience – which, for practical purposes, all mean the same thing.  (Sanchez, supra, 61 Cal.4th at p.
915.)   With regard to demonstrating
substantive unconscionability, an “old-fashioned bad bargain” or a contract
term which “merely gives one side a greater benefit” is insufficient.  (Id. at pp. 911-912.)  
 
            The test for substantive
unconscionability is whether the terms impair the integrity of the bargaining
process or otherwise contravene public policy, or the terms “attempt to alter
in an impermissible manner fundamental duties otherwise imposed by the law” or
“negate the reasonable expectations of the nondrafting party.” (Sonic-Calabassas
A, Inc. v. Moreno (2013) 57 Cal.4th 1109, 1145; see also Carbajal v.
CWPSC, Inc. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 227, 247 [“outside the reasonable
expectation of the nondrafting party or is unduly oppressive”]; Dougherty,
supra, 47 Cal.App.5th at pp. 104-107 [arbitration agreement that curtailed
plaintiffs’ ability to recover statutory remedies, such as punitive damages and
attorney fees, and contained limitations on discovery that risked frustrating
plaintiffs’ statutory elder abuse claims was substantively
unconscionable].)  
 
            Where arbitration agreements between
employers and employees lack mutuality, they are substantively unconscionable,
unless the employer can adequately justify the one-sidedness.  
 
Given the disadvantages that may exist for
plaintiffs arbitrating disputes, it is unfairly one-sided for an employer with
superior bargaining power to impose arbitration on the employee as plaintiff
but not to accept such limitations when it seeks to prosecute a claim against
the employee, without at least some reasonable justification for such
one-sidedness based on “business realities.” As has been recognized
unconscionability turns not only on a “one-sided” result, but also on an
absence of justification for it.  As has
been recognized “ 'unconscionability turns not only on a ”one-sided“ result,
but also on an absence of justification“ for it.
 
(Armendariz,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at pp. 117–118 [cleaned up].)
 
            Here, because Defendant never signed
the arbitration agreement, Plaintiff would not have been able to similarly
compel Defendant to arbitration.  As
such, when a dispute arises, Defendant, alone can decide whether to litigate
the dispute in court or whether to compel arbitration, as its own best
interests may dictate.
 
            Defendant does not
provide any reasonable justification for the lack of mutuality, and instead
merely concludes that “the Agreement satisfies the minimum requirements of Armendariz
[….]”  (Reply at p. 5.)  “A contract must be so interpreted as to give
effect to the mutual intention of the parties as it existed
at the time of contracting, so far as the same is ascertainable and
lawful.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1636,
emphases added.)  
 
            Therefore, the Court finds that the
Agreement is also substantively unconscionable for lack of mutuality.
 
b.    
SEVERABILITY
 
Because of the high degree of procedural unconscionability, due to the
language barrier and the manner in which Plaintiff was presented with the forms
on a “take it or leave it” basis and pressured to sign them right away without
reading or understanding what they said and because of the non-mutuality of the
arbitration provision, the Court finds that these issues permeate the entire
arbitration agreement and cannot be cured by severance.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Having found the arbitration
agreement at issue to be highly procedurally unconscionable and substantively
unconscionable due to lack of mutuality, the Court denies Defendant’s Motion to
Compel Arbitration and to Stay the representative PAGA action.  
 
            Defendant shall provide notice of
the Court’s ruling and file the notice with a proof of service forthwith.
 
 
 
DATED:  July 17, 2024                                                          ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court