  Case Number:  20PSCV00580    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
DEFENDANTS SAN GABRIEL VALLEY TRAINING CENTER AND WORKSHOP
FOR THE HANDICAPPED AND VANESSA BESACK'S NOTICE OF MOTION AND MOTION FOR
SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION is GRANTED in its
entirety; Plaintiff has failed
to plead damages as to the fraud COA; the invasion of privacy COA fails because
the intrusion was limited; and the 3rd COA for wrongful termination
fails because Plaintiff’s very own evidence concedes that he was demoted,
not terminated, such that it fails as a matter of law. 
 
Background
 
This is a
wrongful termination case. Plaintiff CLARENCE ERVING alleges the following
against Defendants SAN GABRIEL VALLEY TRAINING CENTER AND WORKSHOP FOR THE
HANDICAPPED (the “Center”), a California corporation; VANESSA BESACK: Plaintiff
was employed at the Center from June 1, 2001 to November 11, 2019 where he was
a production manager. In November 2019, the Center investigated an allegation
of an inappropriate personal relationship between Plaintiff and a newly hired
employee, Barbara Caballos (who started on May 23, 2009 and left on November
20, 2019), even though it was a “professional” and “personal friendship”
between the two. (Complaint ¶8.) Besack
then “pressured” both to file sexual harassment complaints against each other.
(¶9.) When Plaintiff and Caballos refused, “Besack [] falsely
represented to Mr. Erving that Ms. Ceballos was filing or about to file a
sexual harassment complaint against Mr. Erving, deceiving Mr. Erving into
releasing and disclosing the personal and private texts via personal phones to
Ms. Besack in an attempt to establish a false claim against both Ms. Ceballos
and Mr. Erving for purposes of suppressing both employees' rights to seek
redress in court and to defeat a wrongful termination lawsuit with falsified
employment records.” (¶10.) 
 
On September 3, 2020, Plaintiff filed suit against Defendants for: 1.     Fraud/Deceit (Misrepresentation); 2.     Invasion Of Privacy And 3.     Wrongful Termination In Violation Of
Public Policy
 
On December
30, 2020, Defendants filed their answer. 
 
On January
22, 2024, the parties attended an MSC, but no settlement was reached. 
 
On February
14, 2024, Defendants filed the instant MSJ.
 
On April 18,
2024, Plaintiff filed his opposition.
 
On May 1,
2024, Defendants filed their reply. 
 
Legal
Standard
 
The law of summary judgment provides courts “a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
843 (Aguilar).)  In reviewing a motion for summary judgment,
courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2)
determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine
whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material
factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005)
135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) “The motion for summary judgment shall be
granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to
any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a
matter of law.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(c).)   
 
A moving defendant bears the initial burden of
production to show that one or more elements of the cause of action
cannot be established or that there is a complete defense to the cause of
action, at which point the burden shifts to the plaintiff to make a prima
facie showing of the existence of a triable issue.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (p)(2), emphasis added.) “The
motion shall be supported by affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to
interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice shall or may
be taken. The supporting papers shall include a separate statement setting
forth plainly and concisely all material facts that the moving party contends
are undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference
to the supporting evidence. The failure to comply with this requirement of a
separate statement may in the court’s discretion constitute a sufficient
ground for denying the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(b)(1), emphasis added.) 
 
The opposing party may not rely on the mere
allegations or denials of the pleadings, but instead must set forth the
specific facts showing that a triable issue exists as to that cause of action
or a defense thereto. 
(Aguilar, supra, at p. 849, emphasis added.) Specifically,
“[t]he opposition, where appropriate, shall
consist of affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories,
depositions, and matters of which judicial notice shall or may be taken.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (2).) 
 

Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the
party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in
favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389; see also Hinesley, supra, 135
Cal.App.4th at p. 294 [The court must “view the evidence in the light most
favorable to the opposing party and accept all inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom.”].)  In determining whether
the papers show that there is a triable issue as to any material fact, the
court shall consider all of the evidence set forth in the moving papers, except
that as to which objections have been made and sustained, and all inferences
reasonable deducible from such evidence. (Hayman v. Block (1986)
176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639.) 


Re Evidentiary Objections: Court need only rule on objections
material to adjudication of the motion. (See
Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (2), subs. (q) [“In granting or denying a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication, the court need rule only on those objections to evidence that it
deems material to its disposition of the motion. Objections to evidence that
are not ruled on for purposes of the motion shall be preserved for appellate
review.”].)  Where relevant,
the evidentiary objection will be discussed in the analysis. Should the
objection not be discussed, they are deemed preserved for appeal.  
 

Discussion
 
Defendants
move for summary judgment as to the entirety of the complaint. 
 
1.     1st COA for Fraud
 
The elements
of fraud that will give rise to a tort action for deceit are: (a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or 'scienter'); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage. (Engalla v.
Permanente Medical Group, Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 974; see also Civil
Code. section 1710(1).
 
The fraud COA
alleges that Besack told Plaintiff that “Ceballos was filing or about to file a
sexual harassment complaint against Mr. Erving and that Mr. Erving was to
release and to disclose all personal and private texts exchanged between Mr.
Erving and Ms. Ceballos. In order to defend any legal action by Ms. Ceballos,
Mr. Erving is to file a sexual harassment complaint against Ms. Ceballos thus
resulting in committing a civil wrong against Ms. Ceballos.” (Complaint ¶13.) However, Ceballos was not filing
or about to file any sexual harassment complaint against Plaintiff. (¶14.) “In reliance on these
representations, Mr. Erving was induced to take no [sic] further action.
Had Mr. Erving known the actual facts, Mr. Erving would not have taken
actions.” (¶16.) 
 
Defendant
moves for summary judgment on the grounds that Plaintiff failed to plead and
cannot establish detrimental reliance and damages. 
 
Here, the court agrees that Plaintiff has not pled
damages as a result of the purported misrepresentation. While in opposition Plaintiff pleads
that “The damages sustained here are the emotional distress, humiliation, anger
associated with the disclosure of the personal and private text messages
because of the fraudulent representations and the shock and distress from the
false assertions that Ms. Ceballos would do such a thing,” (Opp. p. 5:19-21), the four corners of the
complaint, which govern a summary judgment motion, contain no such
damages. Thus, as the complaint appears to allege damages flowing from
his alleged constructive termination and recovery for fraud is precluded in the
employment context absent a separate form of damages, then damages are
not pled. (See Motion pp. 5-6, quoting Hunter v. Upright, Inc. (1994) 6
Cal.4th 1174, 1178 [“Tort recovery is available
only if the plaintiff can establish all of the elements of fraud with respect
to a misrepresentation that is separate from the termination of the employment
contract, i.e., when the plaintiff's fraud damages cannot be said to result
from termination itself.”].). Even assuming damages were pled, damages
for emotional distress alone are not recoverable absent an aggravation
of other damages. (Reply p. 4, citing Nagy v. Nagy ( 1989) 210
Cal.App.3d 1262, 1269.) 
 
Therefore, absent
damages, the MSJ as to the 1st COA for fraud is granted. (See also
Reply p. 3, citing Abbot v. Stevens (1955) 133 Cal.App.2d 242, 247 [fraudulent
representations which work no damage cannot give rise to an action at law.]  
 
2.     Invasion of Privacy
 
“A privacy
violation based on the common law tort of intrusion has two elements. First,
the defendant must intentionally intrude into a place, conversation, or matter
as to which the plaintiff has a reasonable expectation of privacy. Second, the
intrusion must occur in a manner highly offensive to a reasonable
person."(Motion p. 7, quoting Hernandez v. Hillsides, Inc. (Hernandez)
(2009) 47 Cal.4th 272,286.) “In determining the
“ ‘offensiveness' ” of an invasion of a privacy interest, common law courts
consider, among other things: “the degree of the intrusion, the context,
conduct and circumstances surrounding the intrusion as well as the intruder's
motives and objectives, the setting into which he intrudes, and the
expectations of those whose privacy is invaded. (Hill v. National Collegiate
Athletic Assn. (1994) 37 Cal.4th 1, 26.)  
 
Plaintiff
alleges that the disclosure of the texts constitutes as an invasion of privacy.
(Complaint ¶¶21-23.) 
 
Defendants move for summary judgment on the grounds that Plaintiff has
failed to plead highly offensive conduct because (1) Plaintiff consented to the
alleged invasion; (3) the information was not sensitive, (3) Defendants’
conduct was justified, and (4) the intrusion was limited. (Motion pp. 8-9.)
 
Here, the court partly agrees with Defendants’ arguments. 
 
Consent: Plaintiff may not have objected or protested
Defendants’ access and review of his texts, but that does not mean, under the
totality of the circumstances, that he consented. He provided the texts at
the insistence, pressure, and demand of Besack. In fact,
Besack in her declaration states as much. (See Besack Decl., Ex. B [Employee
Corective Action Form], p. 0062 [“I asked that you send me all the texts you
and Ms. Ceballos had shared for the last month. I explicitly said if you didn’t
provide it to me by end of day, it would be considered impeding an
investigation.”].)[1]
Thus, as consent requires the absence of coercion, the court disagrees
with Defendants that Plaintiff consented to production of his texts. 
 
Sensitive: Defendants contend that the text messages should not
be considered sensitive because Plaintiff alleges and testifies that there was
nothing romantic between Plaintiff and Ceballos. But Defendants themselves
characterize the messages as “contain[ing] inappropriate exchanges of a
sexually suggestive” (Separate Statement No. 11); thus, that argument is disingenuous.
(And the court’s review of texts illustrate that they are very suggestive.)
Defendants’ other argument that Plaintiff alleges he sent similar messages to
other employees for the conclusion that the information is not sensitive is
equally unavailing. Information that is shared with more than one person
doesn’t necessarily mean that the information is not sensitive. Therefore,
absent authority or a definition as to why the text messages are not sensitive,
Defendants have not met their burden to show that the information was not
sensitive.[2] 
 
Justifiable Conduct: Defendants argue that they were put on notice of the situation and had
a duty to investigate and prevent possible harassment, evidencing that there
was a lack of beneficial motive. (Motion p. 8, 9, citing Myers v. Trendwest
Resorts, Inc. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1422 [“Under the FEHA ... there
is a need to determine whether sexual conduct that occurs off the worksite or
after working hours constitutes an unlawful employment practice' within the
ambit of the act."].) But
Defendants are missing the mark. Plaintiff doesn’t dispute that an
investigation was appropriate, but it had to be done in good faith and
reasonable investigation. Misleading Plaintiff into disclosing personal
and private communications surely does not sound in good faith. In
reply, Defendants contend that “what constitutes the proper scope of a good
faith investigation are meaningless and irrelevant.” (Reply p. 7:2-3.) However,
Defendants have not provided authority that an investigation can occur in
whatever which way possible. Therefore, Defendants have not met their burden
that the investigation in the way it was done was justified. 
 
Intrusion:
Defendants argue that the “invasion,” if any, was limited to serving the purpose of
investigating reports of potential workplace harassment in that it was limited
to the subject texts and not disclosed to third parties. (Motion p. 9; see Hill,
supra, at p. 38 [less intrusion feasible safeguards in place and privacy
concerns alleviated because the intrusion "limited."].) Indeed, the evidence indicates
that only screenshots of the relevant messages were provided. (SS No. 9,
p. 9.) The opposition does not squarely address this argument, but merely cites
to Hill and provides a conclusion. Therefore, as the intrusion was
limited, Defendants have successfully negated in element of the invasion of
privacy. (See Opp. p. 8-15.) 
 
Therefore,
the court GRANTS the MSJ as to the 2nd COA for invasion of privacy. 
 
3.     Wrongful Termination in Violation of
Public Policy[3] 
 
The elements
of a claim for wrongful termination in violation of public policy are (1) an
employer employee relationship, (2) the employer TERMINATED the plaintiff's employment, (3) the
termination was substantially motivated by a violation of public policy, and
(4) the discharge caused the plaintiff harm." (Garcia-Brower v. Premier
Automotive Imports of CA, LLC (2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 961, 973, 22 internal
citation omitted, capitalization added.)
 
Plaintiff
alleges that he “was discharged for refusing to defame Ms. Ceballos, committing
a civil wrong under Civil Code, Sections 44 & 45, which was a substantial
motivating reason for the termination.” (Complaint ¶30.) 
 
Defendants’ Burden 
 
Defendants argue and produce evidence that Plaintiff was demoted for a
legitimate reason. The
undisputed evidence shows that Defendants had good cause to investigate
plaintiff after receiving reported concerns about sexual harassment, and
further demonstrating that, through its investigation, Defendants discovered
evidence that it determined wan-anted prompt corrective action, thus
Plaintiff's demotion. (Motion p. 10.) 
 
For example,
according to Besack’s declaration, Plaintiff “was not providing leadership
either in Covina or La Puente. He was not coming to the La Puente as asked, or
meeting with his staff, and staff were generally feeling at both locations that
they had no leadership.” (Besack Decl., p. 29:4-8.) Similar concerns with
performance were documented in the Employee Corrective Action Form as evidenced
by the following entries:
 
On Wednesday, Oct. 2, 2019, Brittany Bauerle met with you and the floor
supervisors to discuss their concerns. Brittany made it clear that you needed
to improve your performance immediately. You promised that you would start
having weekly production meetings. To date, not a single meeting has been held.
That same day, Brittany reviewed your job description with you in order to
clarify your duties. Floor supervisors were asked if there had been any
communication after the meeting with them and they said you weren't
communicating with them and they were unsure of jobs they needed to work on. 
 
On Wednesday, Oct. 23, 2019, floor supervisors from Covina also
complained that you were absent and not leaving your office to support them. It
was also brought to our attention that you were spending all day with the
Covina administrative coordinator Barbara Ceballos in your office. The floor
supervisors said there were instances where you were seen wrestling with her to
get out of the chair and exhibiting inappropriate behavior in front of staff
and clients. 
 
On Oct. 31, 2019, during my visit to Covina on Halloween, I noticed you
were in your office with Barbara Ceballos during work hours, leaving the front
office unmanned. I told you that day that I wanted to meet on Monday Nov. 4,
2019. (Besack Decl., p. 6 of 9 of PDF.)[4]

 
Accordingly, Defendants have proffered nondiscriminatory
reasons for demoting Plaintiff. (Motion p. 10, quoting King v. United Parcel
Service, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 426, 436 ["It is the employer's
honest belief in the stated reasons for firing an employee and not the
objective truth or falsity of the underlying facts that is at issue."];
see also Martin v. Lockheed Missiles & Space Co. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1718, 1732 [“good cause for discharging the employee ... can also
support an inference of good faith, and of the absence of an improper motive,
in the discharge decision.”].) 
 
Reasons for demoting aside,
Plaintiff argues he was not demoted, but a review of Plaintiff’s deposition
indicates that he too concedes he was demoted.
 
“Q. Okay. And was Vanessa Besack your
supervisor at the time that your employment ended? A. Yes. Q. Were you
terminated? A. I'm going to say yes. Q. Okay. What was the reason for your
termination? A. I would say on paper, it's demotion. They demoted
me.  Q. Okay. So you were demoted, not terminated? A. Of the
-- the cost -- the amount of -- well, yes, I would say I was demoted. So
then the lower pay was catastrophic. Q. What was the difference in pay?A. From
$31 to 17, I think it was. Q. Were you provided with any documents reflecting
the demotion? A. Yes.”], (See Plaintiff’s Evidence, p. 125 of 497 of PDF emphasis
added.)[5]

 
And, as noted by Defendants, a constructive discharge claim fails as a
matter of law because the it requires a continuous pattern of aggravated
conduct such that any employee would find it to be unbearable. (See Turner
v. Anheuser-Busch, Inc. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1238, 1247 [“In order to amount to
a constructive discharge, adverse working conditions must be unusually
aggravated' or amount to a ' continuous pattern' before the situation will be
deemed intolerable. In general, a single, trivial, or isolated acts of
[misconduct] are insufficient' to support a constructive discharge claim.”].) (Turner
was cited by Plaintiff in opposition and Defendants in Reply.) Here,
however, Plaintiff alleges an isolated charge of employer misconduct
(Besacks’s purported fraudulent scheme). Therefore, absent an aggravated isolated
incident (e.g., “crime of violence” see Turner, p. 1238, fn. 3)), a
constructive discharge claim fails. 
 
Therefore, as Defendants have produced admissible
evidence that Plaintiff was demoted for a legitimate reason, Plaintiff’s
COA fails as a matter of law. Thus, the MSJ is GRANTED as to the 3rd
COA. 
 
Conclusion
 
In sum, the MSJ is granted as to the fraud COA because
Plaintiff has failed to plead damages; the MSJ is granted as to the invasion of
privacy COA because the intrusion was limited; and the MSJ is granted as to the
3rd COA for wrongful termination because Plaintiff’s very own
evidence concedes that he was demoted, not terminated, such that it
fails as a matter of law. Based on the foregoing, the MSJ is granted. 


