 Case Number:  23STCV31128    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



BANK OF
  AMERICA, N.A.,  
  
         vs.
 
PERFORMANCE
  ENGINEERED PRODUCTS, INC., et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV31128
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 10, 2024



 
Plaintiff Bank of America, N.A.’s unopposed
motion for an order referring this matter to the
Hon. Chris R. Conway (Ret.) of Judicate West to determine all disputes between
Plaintiff and Defendants Performance Engineered Products, Inc., Dinesh V.
Savalia aka Dennis Savalia, and Babulal A. Savalia aka Bob Savalia regarding the
loan agreement, equipment agreement, guaranties and related documents which are
the subject of this action is granted.  
The parties will privately compensate Judge
Conway, splitting his fees equally at the outset, with the prevailing party to
be awarded the balance.
 
Plaintiff
Bank of America, N.A. (“Bank of America”) (“Plaintiff”) moves unopposed
for an order referring this matter to the Hon. Chris R. Conway (Ret.), of
Judicate West, to determine all disputes between Plaintiff and Defendants
Performance Engineered Products, Inc. (“Performance Engineered”), Dinesh V.
Savalia aka Dennis Savalia (“Dinesh”), and Babulal A. Savalia aka Bob Savalia
(“Babulal”) (collectively, “Defendants”) regarding the loan agreement,
equipment agreement, guaranties and related documents which are the subject of
this action.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 2; C.C.P.
§§638, et seq.; CRC, Rules 3.900 et seq.)  Per the parties’ agreement, the parties will
privately compensate the proposed referee, to split the referee’s fees equally
at the outset, with the prevailing party to be awarded the balance.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 2.)
 
Background
On
December 20, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative complaint (“Complaint”) in
this action against Defendant asserting ten causes of action: (1) breach of
loan agreement; (2) breach of equipment agreement; (3) breach of commercial
guaranties; (4) money lent; (5) account stated; (6) fair valuation; (7) claim
and delivery; (8) conversion; (9) appointment of a receiver; and (10)
injunctive relief.
Plaintiff
alleges on or about April 22, 2022, Performance Engineered executed and
delivered to Plaintiff a Note in the initial amount of $800,000.00 for purposes
of providing a line of credit for the operation of its business.  (Complaint ¶10.)  Plaintiff alleges Performance Engineered
agreed to repay such funding pursuant to the terms and conditions contained in
the Note.  (Complaint ¶10.)  Plaintiff alleges the maturity date of the
Note was extended by an extension dated August 11, 2023.  (Complaint ¶10.)  Plaintiff alleges in connection with the
Note, the Borrower also executed a Master Credit Agreement and Financial
Covenant Agreement (collectively, the $800,000.00 Note, the subsequent extension,
the Master Credit Agreement, and Financial Covenant Agreement will be referred
to collectively as “Loan Agreement”).  (Complaint ¶10, Exh. 1.)  Plaintiff alleges the Master Credit Agreement
generally governs all of Performance Engineered’s obligations to Plaintiff.  (Complaint ¶10.)  Plaintiff alleges The Loan Agreement matured
and became all due and payable in full, on September 1, 2023.  (Complaint ¶10.)  
Plaintiff
alleges concurrently with the execution of the Loan Agreement, Plaintiff and
Performance Engineered entered into the Guaranty and Collateral Agreement (“Collateral
Agreement”) which, in addition to the Loan Agreement, govern the parties’
rights and obligations with respect to the loan made to Performance Engineered
(“Loan”).  (Complaint ¶11, Exh. 2.)
Plaintiff
alleges Performance Engineered defaulted on its obligations to make payments
under the Loan Agreement, including without limitation by failing to repay the
loan at maturity, and failing otherwise to abide by various terms and covenants
of the Loan Agreement, all constituting breaches of the Loan Agreement.  (Complaint ¶13.)  Although demand was made, the Loan Agreement
was not repaid as required.  (Complaint
¶13.)
Plaintiff
alleges the Loan Agreement governing the subject obligations provides for
judicial reference and/or arbitration of disputes arising under, or relating
to, said agreements.  (Complaint ¶15.)
On or
about March 17, 2020, Performance Engineered executed and delivered to
Plaintiff a Master Loan and Security Agreement, as well as an Equipment
Security Note Number 001 for the acquisition of various equipment, in the
initial amount of $50,972.68 (“Equipment Agreement”), and Performance
Engineered agreed to repay such funding pursuant to the terms and conditions contained
therein.  (Decl. of Corkery ¶9, Exh. 6.)  The Equipment Loan is supported by a UCC-1
financing statement evidencing Plaintiff’s lien on the equipment, all of which
is included in Plaintiff’s Collateral, (Decl. of Corkery ¶9, Exh. 7.)
On or
about October 23, 2019, Dinesh and Babulal (collectively, “Guarantors”)
executed and delivered to Plaintiff their Guaranties of the prompt payment and
performance of the obligations of Performance Engineered under the Loan
Agreement. (Decl. of Corkery ¶10, Exh. 4.)
On or
about March 23, 2020 and March 31, 2020, the Guarantors each executed and
delivered to Plaintiff their Guaranties of the prompt payment and performance
of the obligations of Performance Engineered under the Equipment Agreement.  (Decl. of Corkery ¶11, Exh. 8.)  The Guaranties incorporate terms of the
Master Credit Agreement governing the subject obligations, which provides for
judicial reference and/or arbitration of disputes arising under, or relating
to, said agreements.
Plaintiff
filed the instant motion on December 20, 2023. 
As of the date of this hearing no opposition has been filed.
 
Legal
Standard
A
general reference directs the referee to try all issues in the action. The
hearing is conducted under the rules of evidence applicable to judicial
proceedings. “In the case of a general reference, the referee must prepare a
statement of decision which stands as the decision of the court and is reviewable
in the same manner as if the court had rendered it.”  (Sy First Family Ltd. Partnership v. Cheung
(1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 1334, 1341.)
C.C.P.
§638 provides for appointment of a referee upon the agreement of the parties in
a written contract:
A referee may be
appointed upon the agreement of the parties filed with the clerk, or judge, or
entered in the minutes, or upon the motion of a party to a written
contract or lease that provides that any controversy arising therefrom
shall be heard by a referee if the court finds a reference agreement
exists between the parties:
 
(a)  
To
hear and determine any or all of the issues in an action or
proceeding, whether of fact or of law, and to report a statement of decision.
 
(C.C.P.
§638(a), emphasis added); see Carr Business Enterprises, Inc. v. City
of Chowchilla (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 25, 28 [stating judicially-ordered
reference pursuant to C.C.P. §638 is a matter of contract between the parties].)
 
Discussion
Plaintiff’s
motion for appointment of general reference is granted.
The
Master Credit Agreement contains Judicial Reference Provision, as follows:
(b)   Judicial Reference. Any Claim brought by
any Party in a California state court shall be resolved by a general reference
to a referee (or a panel of referees) as provided in California Code of Civil
Procedure Section 638. The referee (or presiding referee of the panel) shall be
a retired Judge or Justice of the California state court system. The referee(s)
shall be selected by mutual written agreement of the Parties. If the Parties do
not agree, the referee(s) shall be selected by the Presiding Judge of the Court
(or his or her representative) as provided in California Code of Civil
Procedure Section 640.
 
(c)   Arbitration Provisions. The Parties agree
that judicial reference pursuant to clause (b) above is the preferred method of
dispute resolution of all Claims, when available. However, with respect to any
Claim brought in a forum other than a California state court, or brought in a
California state court but judicial reference pursuant to clause (b) above is
not available or enforced by the court, the arbitration provisions in this
clause (c) (collectively, the “Arbitration Provisions”) shall apply to the
Claim. The inclusion of these Arbitration Provisions in this Master Credit Agreement
shall not otherwise be deemed as any limitation or waiver of the judicial reference
provisions. The Arbitration Provisions are as follows:
(i)            
For
any Claim for which these Arbitration Provisions apply, the Parties agree that
at the request of any Party to this Master Credit Agreement, such Claim shall
be resolved by binding arbitration. The Claims shall be governed by the laws of
the Governing Law State without regard to its conflicts of law principles. The
Federal Arbitration Act, 9 U.S.C. §§ 1 et seq. (the “Act”), shall apply to the
construction, interpretation, and enforcement of these Arbitration Provisions,
as well as to the confirmation of or appeal from any arbitration award.
 
(ii)         
Arbitration
proceedings will be determined in accordance with the Act, the then- current
Commercial Finance rules and procedures of the American Arbitration Association
or any successor thereof (“AAA”) (or any successor rules for arbitration of
financial services disputes), and the terms of these Arbitration Provisions. In
the event of any inconsistency, the terms of these Arbitration Provisions shall
control.
 
(iii)       
The
arbitration proceedings shall be private. All documents, transcripts, and
filings received by any Party shall not be disclosed by the recipient to any
third parties other than attorneys, accountants, auditors, and financial
advisors acting in the course of their representation, or as otherwise ordered
by a court of competent jurisdiction. Any award also shall be kept
confidential, although this specific requirement shall be void once the award
must be submitted to a court for enforcement. The Parties agree that injunctive
relief, including a temporary restraining order, from a trial court is the
appropriate relief for breach of this paragraph, and they waive any security or
the posting of a bond as a requirement for obtaining such relief.
. . .
 
(f)  
Jury
Waiver. By agreeing to judicial reference or binding arbitration, the parties
irrevocably and voluntarily waive any right they may have to a trial by jury as
permitted by law in respect of any Claim. Furthermore, without intending in any
way to limit the provisions hereof, to the extent any Claim is not submitted to
judicial reference or arbitration, the parties irrevocably and voluntarily
waive any right they may have to a trial by jury to the extent permitted by law
in respect of such Claim. This waiver of jury trial shall remain in effect even
if the Class Action Waiver is limited, voided or found unenforceable. WHETHER
THE CLAIM IS DECIDED BY JUDICIAL REFERENCE, BY ARBITRATION, OR BY TRIAL BY A
JUDGE, THE PARTIES AGREE AND UNDERSTAND THAT THE EFFECT OF THIS DISPUTE
RESOLUTION PROVISION IS THAT THEY ARE GIVING UP THE RIGHT TO TRIAL BY JURY TO
THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY LAW. EACH PARTY HERETO (i) CERTIFIES THAT NO
REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PERSON HAS REPRESENTED,
EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PERSON WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF
LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER, (ii) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND
THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS MASTER CREDIT
AGREEMENT AND THE OTHER DOCUMENTS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS,
THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION AND (iii) CERTIFIES THAT
THIS WAIVER IS KNOWINGLY, WILLINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY MADE.
 
(Decl.
of Corkery ¶7, Exh. 2 at pgs. 14-15.)
Here,
all parties in this case expressly agreed to resolve all controversies,
disputes or claims by judicial reference pursuant to the Loan Agreement and
Equipment Agreement.  All claims asserted
in this case are governed by these agreements.
The
Loan Agreement and Equipment Agreement also provide that Defendants shall pay
all Plaintiff’s costs incurred in enforcing its rights thereunder. (Decl. of
Corkery ¶7, Exh. 2 at ¶¶6.6, 6.7.) 
According to the Loan Agreement and Equipment Agreement, Defendants are
responsible for payment of the referee’s fees.  However, in the interest of fairness and
efficiency, Plaintiff requests that this Court order the parties to split the referee’s
fees equally at the outset, with the prevailing party to be awarded the
balance.  (Motion, pg. 10.)  The Court considers Plaintiff’s request to be
fair and equitable.
C.C.P.
§640 provides that the court shall appoint as referee the person agreed upon by
the parties and, if the parties do not agree on the selection of the referee,
then each party shall submit to the court up to three (3) nominees.  (C.C.P. §§640(a), (b).)  Plaintiff nominates Hon. Chris R. Conway
(Ret.) to serve as referee pursuant to a general reference.  Plaintiff has confirmed Judge Conway’s
availability to handle this case and that no conflicts exist which would
prevent him from serving as referee.
In
light of the lack of opposition and general agreement between parties, the
Court appoints Judge Conway as the referee for all purposes.
 
Conclusion
Plaintiff’s
unopposed motion for an order referring this matter to Hon. Chris R.
Conway (Ret.) to determine all disputes between parties regarding the Loan Agreement,
Equipment Agreement, guaranties, and related documents which are the subject of
this action is granted.  Further, the
parties will privately compensate Judge Conway, splitting his fees equally at
the outset, with the prevailing party to be awarded the balance.
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
Dated: 
July _____, 2024
                                                                                     





  