  Case Number:  23STCV01336    Hearing Date:   July 10, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



URBAN COMMONS DANBURY, LLC, et al.,
  
        
  vs.
 
CLAYDON HILL INVESTMENTS LTD, et al. 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV01336
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 10, 2024



 
Defendants Claydon Hill Investments Ltd.’s, Compass Cove
Assets Ltd.’s, Bounty Green Assets Ltd.’s, Frank Yuan’s, Jerome Yuan’s, and
Norbert Yuan’s demurrer to Plaintiffs Urban Commons Frontera, LLC’s; Urban Commons
Highway 111, LLC’s; Urban Commons Anaheim, LLC’s; Urban Commons HIDH, LLC’s; Urban
Commons Bayshore, LLC’s; Urban Commons Continental, LLC’s; UCQ Holding, LLC’s;
and Urban Commons Riverside Blvd, LLC’s second amended complaint is overruled 1st,
2nd, 3rd, and 4th causes of action and sustained
with 20 days leave to amend as to the 5th and 6th causes of action.
 
Defendants Claydon
Hill Investments Ltd. (“Claydon Hill”), Compass Cove Assets Ltd. (“Compass Cove”),
Bounty Green Assets Ltd. (“Bounty Green”), Frank Yuan (“Frank”), Jerome Yuan
(“Jerome”), and Norbert Yuan (“Norbert”) (collectively, “Defendants”) demur to
the to the second amended complaint (“SAC”) of Plaintiffs Urban Commons
Frontera, LLC (“Frontera”); Urban Commons Highway 111, LLC (“Highway”); Urban
Commons Anaheim, LLC (“Anaheim”); Urban Commons HIDH, LLC (“HIDH”); Urban
Commons Bayshore, LLC (“Bayshore”); Urban Commons Continental, LLC
(“Continental”); UCQ Holding, LLC (“UCQ”); and Urban Commons Riverside Blvd,
LLC (“Riverside”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) on the grounds that Plaintiffs
fail to allege facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.  (Notice of Demurrer, pg. 2; C.C.P. §430.10.)

 
           Request for Judicial Notice
           Defendants’ 5/21/24 request for
judicial notice of (1) California Secretary of State website displaying the
“Entity Information” and “History” for
Plaintiff Urban
Commons Bayshore, LLC (Decl. of Mohammadi, Exh. A); (2) California Secretary of
State website displaying the “Entity Information” and “History” for Plaintiff
Urban Commons Frontera, LLC (Decl. of Mohammadi, Exh. B); (3) California
Secretary of State website displaying the “Entity Information” and “History”
for Plaintiff Urban Commons Highway 111, LLC (Decl. of Mohammadi, Exh. C); (4) California
Secretary of State website displaying the “Entity Information” and “History”
for Plaintiff Urban Commons Riverside Blvd, LLC (Decl. of Mohammadi, Exh. D);
(5) California Secretary of State website displaying the “Entity Information”
and “History” for Plaintiff UCQ Holdings, LLC (Decl. of Mohammadi, Exh. E); (6)
Certificate of Revival for
Plaintiff Urban
Commons Continental, LLC, filed with the Delaware Secretary of State on August
8, 2023 (Decl. of Mohammadi, Exh. F); (7) Certificate of Revival for Plaintiff
Urban Commons HIDH, LLC, filed with the Delaware Secretary of State, on August
8, 2023 (Decl. of Mohammadi, Exh. G); (8) Delaware Secretary of State website,
taken on May 16, 2024, displaying the “Entity Details” and
status for Plaintiff
Urban Commons Anaheim, LLC (Decl. of Mohammadi, Exh. H); (9) redacted version
of the Membership Interest Sale and Purchase Agreement between Urban Commons
Bayshore, LLC and U.S. Hospitality Investments LLC, dated April 13, 2018 (Decl.
of Mohammadi, Exh. I); (10) Notification Form for
Director/Chief
Executive Officer in Respect of Interests in Securities (“Form 1”) for Howard
Wu filed with the Singapore Exchange on May 27, 2019 (Decl. of Mohammadi, Exh.
J); (11) Form 1 for Taylor Woods filed with the Singapore Exchange on May 27,
2019 (Decl. of Mohammadi, Exh. K); (12) Notification Form for Substantial
Shareholder in Respect of Interests In Securities (“Form 3”) for Claydon Hill Investments
Ltd. (“Claydon Hill”), filed with the Singapore Exchange on May 28, 2019 (Decl.
of Mohammadi, Exh. L); (13) Form 3 for Compass Cove Assets Limited, (Decl. of
Mohammadi, Exh. M); (14) Form 3 for Claydon Hill, filed with the Singapore
Exchange on August 19, 2019, filed with the Singapore Exchange on May 28, 2019
(Decl. of Mohammadi, Exh. N); (15) Form 3 for Compass Cove, filed with the
Singapore Exchange on October 11, 2019 (Decl. of Mohammadi, Exh. O); (16) Form
3 for Claydon Hill, filed with the Singapore Exchange on October 29, 2019
(Decl. of Mohammadi, Exh. P); and (17) Singapore Exchange website of a Company
Announcement for Eagle Hospitality REIT Management Pte. Ltd., dated March 24,
2020 and titled “Request for Suspension::Mandatory” (Decl. of Mohammadi, Exh.
Q) is granted, but the Court does not take judicial notice of the truth of the
matters asserted.
           Defendants’ 5/21/24 request for
judicial notice of (1) a screenshot, taken on May 19, 2024, of the webpage:
https://www.urban-commons.com/our-team/; and (2) a screenshot, taken on May 19,
2024, of the webpage: https://eagleht.com/about-the-sponsor/ is denied.
           Plaintiffs’ 6/26/24 request for
judicial notice of (1) Defendant Frank Yuan’s Responses and Objections to
Plaintiff Urban Commons Frontera, LLC’s Special Interrogatories (Set One)
(P-RJN, Exh. A); (2) Defendant Jerome Yuan’s Responses and Objections to
Plaintiff Urban Commons Frontera, LLC’s Special Interrogatories (Set One)
(P-RJN, Exh. B); and (3) Defendant Norbert Yuan’s Responses and Objections to
Plaintiff Urban Commons Frontera, LLC’s Special Interrogatories (Set One)
(P-RJN, Exh. C), is granted.
 
Meet and Confer
Before filing a
demurrer, the demurring party must meet and confer in person, by telephone, or
by video conference with the party who filed the pleading to attempt to reach
an agreement that would resolve the objections to the pleading and obviate the
need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P.
§430.41(a).)
(3) The demurring
party shall file and serve with the demurrer a declaration stating either of
the following: (A) The means by which the demurring party met and conferred
with the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer, and that the parties
did not reach an agreement resolving the objections raised in the demurrer. (B)
That the party who filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to
the meet and confer request of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet
and confer in good faith.  (C.C.P.
§430.41(a)(3).)
Defendants’ counsel
declares that on May 15, 2024, he met and conferred with Plaintiffs’ counsel
telephonically to discuss the instant demurrer, and the parties were unable to reach
an agreement resolving the issues raised by the demurrer.  (Decl. of Mohammadi ¶2.)  Defendants’ counsel’s declaration is
sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a). 
Therefore, the Court will consider Defendants’ demurrer.
 
Procedural Background
           Plaintiffs filed their initial complaint
on January 23, 2023.  Plaintiffs filed
their first amended complaint (“FAC”) on August 16, 2023.  Plaintiffs filed the operative SAC on April 9,
2024, against Defendants alleging six causes of action: (1) promissory fraud [against
all Defendants]; (2) breach of contract [against Claydon Hill, Compass Cove,
and Bounty Green (collectively, “BVI Entities”)]; (3) conversion [against
all Defendants]; (4) violation of Penal Code §496 [against all
Defendants]; (5) breach of fiduciary duty [against all Defendants];
and (6) reformation of contract [against all Defendants].  
Defendants filed the
instant demurrer on May 21, 2024.  Plaintiffs filed their opposition on June 26,
2024.  Defendants filed their reply on July
2, 2024.
 
Summary of
Allegations
Plaintiffs allege
this action arises from a failed real estate venture.  (SAC ¶14.) 
Plaintiffs allege they were formerly the beneficial owners of hotel
properties, each itself held by a subsidiary holding company.  (SAC ¶14.)
Plaintiffs allege in
2018, each Plaintiff entered into separate “Membership Interest Sale and
Purchase Agreements,” for the purpose of selling their beneficial ownership of
the hotel properties to U.S. Hospitality Investments LLC (“USHI”), effectively
transferring ownership of the underlying hotels to USHI in exchange for
compensation totaling approximately $440 million.  (SAC ¶15.)
Plaintiffs allege pursuant
to the terms of these 2018 Membership Interest Sale and Purchase Agreements, each
Plaintiff received a portion of the compensation for making the sale in cash,
and a portion in the form of a Deferred Payment Obligation (“DPO”) to be paid
at a later date.  (SAC ¶16.)  Plaintiffs allege under the terms of the 2018
sale, the DPO payable to each Plaintiff, to be paid by USHI to Plaintiffs at
some future date, collectively totaled $131,813,141.  (SAC ¶16.)
Plaintiffs allege on
or about April 25, 2019, USHI entered into a “Securities Purchase Agreement,”
by which it agreed to sell its ownership in each of the 8 hotel properties to
Eagle Hospitality Real Estate Investment Trust (“Eagle Hospitality”), a “REIT”
that was preparing to have an Initial Public Offering of its shares on the
Singapore Exchange in May 2019.  (SAC
¶17.)  Plaintiffs allege this transaction
valued the eight hotel properties at approximately $584 million, and in exchange
for selling these hotel properties to Eagle Hospitality, along with certain
other assets not at issue in this litigation, USHI was to receive $30 million
in cash, with the remainder of the consideration to be paid in the form of
Eagle Trust stock, which was to be issued as part of Eagle Trust’s upcoming
IPO.  (SAC ¶18.)   Plaintiffs allege USHI’s initial plan was to
use this cash and stock to pay off the DPO then owed to Plaintiffs.  (SAC ¶19.)
Plaintiffs allege
that around this same time, April 2019, Plaintiffs entered into discussions
with the Yuans regarding a proposal they made whereby, in lieu of USHI
receiving all of the newly issued Eagle Trust stock to which it was entitled
under the terms of the Securities Purchase Agreement, USHI would, instead,
transfer a portion of its shares (valued at $156 million) to the Yuans–acting
through their wholly owned and controlled BVI Entities– Claydon Hill, Compass
Cove, and Bounty Green.  (SAC ¶20.)
Plaintiffs allege
that in exchange for USHI transferring these shares to the Yuans, the Yuans,
acting through their wholly owned and controlled BVI Entities, agreed to assume
responsibility for future repayment of the DPO owed to Plaintiffs, which by May
2019, were in excess of $130 million. 
(SAC ¶21.)
Plaintiffs allege
that to ensure that repayment to Plaintiffs of their DPO was fully secured, the
Yuans offered to use the $156 million in Eagle Trust shares they were to
receive from USHI as collateral.  (SAC
¶22.)  Plaintiffs allege that in effect,
the idea was that USHI would transfer $156 million of the Eagle Trust stock it
was entitled to receive to the Yuans, and, in exchange, the Yuans would agree
to repay $156 million worth of the Deferred Payment Debt still owed to
Plaintiffs, while simultaneously using the stock received from USHI as security
for such repayment.  (SAC ¶22.)  
Plaintiffs allege
that from their perspective, this transaction had the benefit of allowing
Plaintiffs to continue earning interest on the outstanding DPO at the rate of
15% per year, as provided for in the original 2018 Agreements, while
eliminating the risk inherent in receiving Eagle Trust shares issued on a
foreign exchange, whose future value was uncertain.  (SAC ¶23.) 
Plaintiffs allege the Yuans benefitted by receiving the potential upside
that might accrue should the value of Eagle Trust shares rise in the future.  (SAC ¶23.) 
Plaintiffs allege that ultimately, both USHI and Plaintiffs agreed to
this proposal by the Yuans, which was subsequently memorialized in a series of
written agreements.  (SAC ¶24.)
Plaintiffs allege on
or about May 15, 2019, Claydon Hill, Compass Cove, and Bounty Green, acting exclusively
through the Yuans, entered into an “Assignment and Assumption of Deferred
Payment Obligation” agreement, the purpose of which was to “assign and transfer
to [Claydon Hill, Compass Cove, and Bounty Green] a portion of the amounts due
[to Plaintiffs] in the aggregate amount of $156,000,000. . ..” (SAC ¶25, Exh. 1
at Recital D.)
Plaintiffs allege Section
2 of this agreement provides that Claydon Hill, Compass Cove, and Bounty Green:
hereby accept the assignment and transfer of the [$156 M] Deferred Payment
Obligation, and assume the obligation to pay the Deferred Payment Obligation in
accordance with the terms of the Installment Notes, in the following percentage
amount of the Deferred Payment Obligation: Claydon Hill Investments LTD–25.85%,
Bounty Green Assets LTD–14.15%, and Compass Cove Assets Limited–60%.  (SAC ¶26.)
Plaintiffs allege
Section 4 of this agreement provides that:
[a]s consideration for “[Claydon Hill’s,
Compass Cove’s, and Bounty Green’s] assumption of the [$156 M] Deferred Payment
Obligation, [USHI] agrees that it shall direct the escrow agent for the initial
proceeds of the IPO to pay to [the BVI Entities] from the escrow an amount
equal to the [$156 M] Deferred Payment Obligation in the following percentage amounts:
Claydon Hill Investments LTD – US$40,326,000.00, Bounty Green Assets LTD-
US$22,074,000.00, and Compass Cove Assets Limited – 93,600,000.00.
 
(SAC ¶27.)
           Plaintiffs allege that to effectuate
the transfer of Eagle Trust stock to the Yuans, on May 16, 2019, USHI executed
Escrow Instructions, by which it instructed that the Eagle Trust shares to
which it was otherwise entitled be transferred to various accounts controlled
by the Yuans at UBS Bank as follows: $40,452,000 worth of shares to Claydon
Hill; $22,143.000 worth of shares to Bounty Green; and $93,891,000 worth of
shares to Compass Cove.  (SAC ¶28, Exh.
2.)
Plaintiffs allege
that to further document this transaction, on or about May 20, 2019, Claydon
Hill, Compass Cove, and Bounty Green, acting exclusively through the Yuans,
entered into a “Pledge Agreement.”  (SAC
¶29, Exh. 3.)
Plaintiffs allege on
information and belief that Claydon Hill is the alter ego of Frank, Compass
Cove is the alter ego of Norbert, and Bounty Green is the alter ego of Jerome
in that these entities (“BVI Entities”) have maintained such a unity of
interest and ownership with these individuals such that the separate
personalities of the corporate entity and the individual defendants no longer
exist and that an inequitable result would follow if they were treated as
separate individuals.  (SAC ¶11.)
Plaintiffs allege
that pursuant to this Pledge Agreement, the BVI Entities collectively agreed to
pledge a total of $210 million worth of their newly-received Eagle Hospitality
shares (an amount in excess of the $156 million worth of shares transferred
from USHI) as collateral to ensure repayment of the DPO owed to Plaintiffs
(“Pledged Shares”).  (SAC ¶30.) 
Plaintiffs allege This
Pledge Agreement provided, in section 2, that:
until all sums due under the [Deferred
Payment Obligation] have been paid in full, and all of [Claydon Hill, Compass
Cove, and Bounty Green]’s obligations under this Agreement have been performed,
[Claydon Hill, Compass Cove, and Bounty Green] will not, without [Plaintiff’s]
prior written consent (i) sell, assign or transfer, or attempt to sell, assign
or transfer, any of the [Pledged Shares . . .]; or (iii) suffer or permit to
continue on any of the [Pledged Shares] during the term of this Agreement, an
attachment, levy, execution or statutory lien.
 
(SAC ¶31.)
           Plaintiffs allege the Eagle Trust IPO
took place on May 24, 2019, and Plaintiffs are informed and believe that on or
about that date, Claydon Hill, Compass Cove, and Bounty Green collectively
received more than $210,000,000 worth of Eagle Trust shares, including the $156
million worth of shares that would have otherwise gone to USHI for the benefit
of Plaintiffs, but which USHI transferred to the Yuans, acting through Claydon
Hill, Compass Cove, and Bounty Green. 
(SAC ¶32.)
           Plaintiffs allege on or about
November 5, 2019, Claydon Hill, Compass Cove, and Bounty Green, acting exclusively
through the Yuans, entered into a “First Amendment Pledge Agreement,” whereby the
Yuans, acting through the BVI Entities, reaffirmed their obligations to
Plaintiffs under the original Pledge Agreement and further identified and pledged
to Plaintiffs the UBS Accounts purportedly holding the Pledged Shares.  (SAC ¶33, Exh. 4.)  Plaintiffs allege this agreement provided, inter
alia, that until all of the Yuan’s obligations to repay the DPO owed to
Plaintiffs had been completed, “all Collateral will continue to be held in
Pledge Under this Agreement.”  (SAC ¶33,
Exh. 4.)  
           Plaintiffs allege that notwithstanding
that the Yuans repeatedly represented to Plaintiffs that they would hold the
Pledged Shares to secure repayment of the DPO owed to Plaintiffs, and that the
Pledged Shares would not be sold without Plaintiffs’ knowledge or consent (or
without using the proceeds from such sales to pay the DPO owed to Plaintiffs),
Plaintiffs are informed and believe that soon after entering into the original Pledge
Agreement in May 2019, Defendants began selling the Pledged Shares, and using
the proceeds from such sales for their own personal benefit, and not to pay the
DPO owed to Plaintiffs.  (SAC ¶34.)
           Plaintiffs allege on information and
belief that between the time they received the Pledged Shares and March 2020,
the Yuans (acting through the BVI Entities), without the authorization or
consent of Plaintiffs, sold the majority of the Pledged Shares through the
Singapore Exchange.  (SAC ¶35.)
Plaintiffs allege on information and belief that the proceeds from such sales
were used for the Yuans’ personal benefit and not to pay the DPO owed to
Plaintiffs.  (SAC ¶35.)
Plaintiffs allege on
information and belief that Frank, Jerome, and Norbert  (collectively, “Yuans”) were engaged in the
following activities vis-à-vis the BVI Entities that they owned and controlled,
rendering the alter ego doctrine applicable: (1) Failure to adequately
capitalize the BVI Entities; (2) Treatment of the BVI Entities assets as their
own; (3) Commingling of funds and other assets and the unauthorized diversion
of the BVI Entities’ funds or assets for other than the BVI Entities’ Defendant
uses to the detriment of creditors; (4) Failure to maintain minutes or adequate
records; (5) Disregard of legal formalities; (6) Representations that the Yuans
are personally liable for the BVI Entities debts; and (7) Use of the BVI
Entities as a mere shell, instrumentality, or conduit for a single venture.  (SAC ¶12.)  

 
Summary of
Demurrer
Defendants demur to the 1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, and 6th causes of
action in the SAC on the basis the causes of action fail to state facts
sufficient to constitute causes of action against Defendants.  (Demurrer, pg. 3.)
 
Failure to State a Cause of Action
Promissory Fraud
(1st COA)
“The elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort action for deceit,
are (a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or
nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to
defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting
damage.”  (Beckwith v. Dahl (2012)
205 Cal.App.4th 1039, 1060.)  “Promissory
fraud” is a subspecies of fraud and deceit. A promise to do something
necessarily implies the intention to perform; hence, where a promise is made
without such intention, there is an implied misrepresentation of fact that may
be actionable fraud.”  (Id.)
Plaintiffs allege
that “[b]eginning in or about April 2019 and continuing thereafter, the Yuans
made a series of promises to Plaintiffs regarding how the Pledged Shares would
be handled, including that the Pledged Shares would be held as security for
repayment of the DPO, as defined herein, that the Pledged Shares would not be
sold without Plaintiffs’ knowledge or consent, and that any proceeds from the
sale of the Pledged Shares would be used exclusively to repay the DPO owed to
Plaintiffs that the Yuans, acting through the BVI Entities, had agreed to
assume.”  (SAC ¶37.)  These representations are also borne out in
the relevant agreements themselves, which prohibited defendants from selling,
assigning or transferring any of the Pledged Shares, without Plaintiffs’ prior
written consent, until the DPOs had been fully repaid.  (SAC ¶50.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendants “did not
intend to perform these promises when they were made,” and subsequently “sold
off the majority of the Pledged Shares without Plaintiff’s knowledge or consent
and used the proceeds for their own personal purposes rather than to pay off
the DPO.”  (SAC ¶¶38, 41.)  Plaintiffs have adequately pled their claim of
promissory fraud.
With regard to
Defendants’ argument that Plaintiffs’ cause of action is barred by the statute
of limitations, Plaintiffs’ claims are not clearly and affirmatively time
barred on the face of the pleading. 
Here, Plaintiffs allege on information and belief that the “soon
after entering into the original Pledge Agreement in May 2019, Defendants began
selling the Pledged Shares, and using the proceeds from such sales for their
own personal benefit” (SAC ¶34); and that “between the time they received the
Pledges Shares and March 2020, [they] . . . sold the majority of the Pledged
Shares through the Singapore Exchange.” (SAC ¶35.)  A complaint alleging that the offenses at
issue began at a date unknown to Plaintiffs is not subject to demurrer on
statute of limitations grounds since such a complaint does not reveal on its
face that it is barred by the statute of limitations.  (Union Carbide Corp. v. Superior Court (1984)
36 Cal.3d 15, 25.)
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 1st cause of action is overruled.
 
Breach of Contract
(2nd COA)
With regard to
Defendants’ argument that Plaintiffs’ cause of action is barred by the statute
of limitations, Plaintiffs’ claims are not clearly and affirmatively time
barred on the face of the pleading. 
Here, Plaintiffs allege on information and belief that the “soon
after entering into the original Pledge Agreement in May 2019, Defendants began
selling the Pledged Shares, and using the proceeds from such sales for their
own personal benefit” (SAC ¶34); and that “between the time they received the
Pledges Shares and March 2020, [they] . . . sold the majority of the Pledged
Shares through the Singapore Exchange.” (SAC ¶35.)  A complaint alleging that the offenses at
issue began at a date unknown to Plaintiffs is not subject to demurrer on
statute of limitations grounds since such a complaint does not reveal on its
face that it is barred by the statute of limitations.  (Union Carbide Corp., 36 Cal.3d at pg.
25.)
Accordingly,
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 2nd cause of action is overruled.
 
Conversion (3rd COA)
“Conversion is the wrongful exercise of
dominion over the property of another. The elements of a conversion claim are:
(1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the
defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and
(3) damages.”  (Lee v. Hanley (2015)
61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.)  To maintain a
claim for conversion, “[i]t is not necessary that there be a manual taking of
the property; it is only necessary to show an assumption of control or
ownership over the property, or that the alleged converter has applied the
property to his own use.”  (Shopoff
& Cavallo LLP v. Hyon (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1489, 1507.)
It is “well settled in California that shares
of corporate stock are subject to an action in conversion” and “it is not
necessary that possession of the certificate evidencing title be disturbed.”  (Mears v. Crocker First National Bank (1948)
84 Cal.App.2d 637, 644.)  Instead, it is
sufficient that there is interference with the owner’s “free and unhampered
right to dispose of property without limitations imposed by strangers to the
title.”  (Id.)
Plaintiffs sufficiently allege that Defendants
were required to pledge $210 million worth of Eagle Trust stock to secure their
repayment of the DPOs owed to Plaintiffs.  (SAC ¶30.)  This Pledged Share amount is reflected in both
the original May 20, 2019 “Pledge Agreement,” and the November 5, 2019 “First
Amendment Pledge Agreement,” both of which are attached as exhibits to the SAC.
 (See SAC at Exhs. 3, 4 at fourth
Recital.)
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ 3rd cause of action is overruled.
 
Violation of Penal Code §496 (4th COA)
A violation of Penal Code §496(a) requires that “(i) property was
stolen or obtained in a manner constituting theft, (ii) the defendant knew the
property was so stolen or obtained, and (iii) the defendant received or had
possession of the stolen property.”  (Switzer v. Wood (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 116, 126.)
Penal Code § 484(a) defines the crime of theft: “Every person who shall
feloniously steal, take, carry, lead, or drive away the personal property of
another, or who shall fraudulently appropriate property which has been
entrusted to him or her, or who shall knowingly and designedly, by any false or
fraudulent representation or pretense, defraud any other person of money, labor
or real or personal property, or who causes or procures others to report
falsely of his or her wealth or mercantile character and by thus imposing upon
any person, obtains credit and thereby fraudulently gets or obtains possession
of money, or property or obtains the labor or service of another, is guilty of
theft.”  
Plaintiffs sufficiently identify the Pledged Shares at issue: Plaintiffs
sufficiently allege that Defendants were required to pledge $210 million worth
of Eagle Trust stock to secure their repayment of the DPOs owed to Plaintiffs.  (SAC ¶30.)  This Pledged Share amount is reflected in both
the original May 20, 2019 “Pledge Agreement,” and the November 5, 2019 “First
Amendment Pledge Agreement,” both of which are attached as exhibits to the SAC.
 (See SAC at Exhs. 3, 4 at fourth
Recital.)  
Plaintiffs sufficiently allege Defendants
caused Plaintiffs to transfer to Defendants assets worth more than $131.8
million belonging to Plaintiffs.  (SAC
¶64.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants have
retained most or all of the funds belonging to Plaintiffs.  (SAC ¶65.) 
Plaintiffs allege in so doing, Defendants have knowingly received and
are deliberately withholding the funds belonging to Plaintiffs, knowing that
Defendants have no right, title, or interest in those funds and that said funds
have been stolen from Plaintiffs and/or obtained in a manner constituting theft
as defined in Penal Code §496(a).  (SAC
¶66.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants did
so knowing the funds had been so obtained, and with the requisite intent.  (SAC ¶68.) 

Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 4th cause
of action is overruled.
 
           Breach of
Fiduciary Duty (5th COA)
To plead a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty, a plaintiff
must allege facts showing the existence of a fiduciary relationship, its breach,
and damage proximately caused by that breach.  (Pierce v. Lyman (1991) 1 Cal.App.4th
1093, 1101.)
“A fiduciary relationship is ‘“any relation existing between parties to
a transaction wherein one of the parties is . . . duty bound to act with the
utmost good faith for the benefit of the other party. Such a relation
ordinarily arises where a confidence is reposed by one person in the integrity
of another, and in such a relation the party in whom the confidence is reposed,
if he voluntarily accepts or assumes to accept the confidence, can take no
advantage from his acts relating to the interest of the other party without the
latter’s knowledge or consent.”’” (Wolf v. Superior Court (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 25, 29.)
Plaintiffs fail to allege a fiduciary duty owed to them by Defendants
as a matter of law.  Plaintiffs merely
allege, “By virtue of their past dealings with Plaintiffs, and by virtue of
entering into the Assignment and Assumption of DPO agreement, Pledge Agreement
and First Amendment Pledge Agreement with Plaintiffs, Defendants assumed a
fiduciary duty to protect the Plaintiff’s interests in the Pledged Shares,
which included the fiduciary duty to avoid taking actions that would compromise
or adversely affect Plaintiffs’ security interest in the Pledged Shares.”  (SAC ¶72.) 
However, “parties to a contract, by that fact alone, have no fiduciary
duties toward one another.”  (Rickel
v. Schwinn Bicycle Co. (1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 648, 654; Waverly Productions,
Inc. v. RKO General, Inc. (1963) 217 Cal.App.2d 721, 732 [“A mere
contract or a debt does not constitute a trust or create a fiduciary
relationship” on which a breach of fiduciary duty claim may be based].)
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ 5th cause of action is
sustained with
20 days leave
to amend.
 
           Reformation of
Contract (6th COA)
Civil Code §3399 provides that “[w]hen through fraud or a mutual
mistake of the parties, or a mistake of one party, which the other at the time
knew or suspected, a written contract does not truly express the intention of
the parties, it may be revised on the application of a party aggrieved, so as
to express that intention, so far as it can be done without prejudice to rights
acquired by third persons, in good faith and for value.”
A claim for reformation of an instrument based on fraud or mistake is
subject to a three-year statute of limitations, which begins to run when the
plaintiff discovers, or by reasonable diligence could and should have
discovered, the alleged mistake.  (Civ.
Code §338(d); North Star Reinsurance Corp. v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1815, 1822.)
Plaintiffs’ reformation of contract claim is
based on the fact that both the Pledge Agreement (SAC ¶77, Exh. 3) and First
Amended Pledge Agreement (SAC ¶77, Exh. 4) the Plaintiffs as Delaware
limited liability companies, when in fact, five of the seven plaintiffs are
California entities.  Plaintiffs contend
that this drafting error is the result of “mutual mistake of the parties,” that
the parties clearly intended that this agreement apply to the Plaintiffs and
that the contract can be “reformed” as necessary by the Court to correct this
drafting error.
The statute of limitations on the reformation
claims accrued at the time of the execution of the agreements in May and
November 2019, when Plaintiffs should have reasonably been on notice of their
incorrect LLC designations.  (See
SAC ¶ 77.)  Because Plaintiffs filed the
SAC asserting the reformation claims in 2024, over two years after the
limitations period had lapsed, the reformation cause of action appears on the
face is barred by the statute of limitations. 
Plaintiffs argue this drafting discrepancy was
only recently discovered by current counsel for Plaintiffs when they entered
the case in late 2023 and the SAC can be amended to clearly allege the fact
that this mistake was only recently uncovered and therefore would not have
accrued at a time later than the statute of limitations.
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ 6th cause of action is sustained with 20 days leave to
amend.
 
Alter Ego Theory
In pleading alter ego liability, a
plaintiff is required to allege only “ultimate rather than evidentiary facts.”  (Doe v. City of Los Angeles (2007) 42
Cal.4th 531, 550.)  Moreover, “less
particularity [of pleading] is required where the defendant may be assumed to
possess knowledge of the facts at least equal, if not superior, to that
possessed by the plaintiff.” (Burks v. Poppy Construction Co. (1962) 57
Cal.2d 463, 474.)
The SAC sufficiently alleges that the BVI Entities are the alter egos
of the Yuans “in that these entities have maintained such a unity of interest
and ownership with these individuals such that the separate personalities of
the corporate entity and the individual defendants no longer exist and that an
inequitable result would follow if they were treated as separate individuals.”  (SAC ¶¶ 11-12.)
Further, an allegation of alter ego liability is not a cause of action
subject to demurrer.
Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s allegations of alter
ego liability are overruled.
 
Conclusion
Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ SAC is overruled as to the 1st,
2nd, 3rd, and 4th causes of action and sustained with 20 days leave to amend as
to the 5th and 6th causes of action.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  July _____, 2024
                                                                                     





  