  Case Number:  21STCV19929    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department
47
 
 
HEARING DATE:      November 9, 2023                                       TRIAL DATE:  N/A
                                                           
CASE:                         Oak Hills IV Condominium Association v. Tao Li, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV19929
 
            




















 
MOTION
TO SET ASIDE/VACATE DEFAULT AND DEFAULT JUDGMENT



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant
Miaoling He
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Oak Hills
IV Condominium Association
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
05/26/21: Complaint filed.
·        
06/02/23: Judgment entered.
·        
08/03/23: Amended Judgment entered.
 
STATEMENT OF
MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
This is an
action for breach of the Declaration of Restrictions governing a housing
project. Plaintiff alleged that Defendants owned a condominium subject to the
Declaration of Restrictions which Defendants used as a rental property.
Plaintiffs claimed that Defendants breached the Declaration by allowing a
leaking air conditioning unit to remain installed on the balcony of Defendants’
unit. The Court entered judgment in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendants
on June 2, 2023
 
Defendant He
moves to set aside the amended judgment awarding Plaintiff attorney’s fees and
costs.
 
On October
10, 2023, the Court continued the hearing on this motion to November 9, 2023 because
Defendants did not provide proof of service establishing that notice of this
motion was properly given to all parties pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1005(b). As Plaintiff had not responded to this motion, the Court could
not presume that service was properly made. 
 
On October
24, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition to Defendants’ motion. To date, no
reply has been filed.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING:
 
Defendants’ Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Default and Default
Judgment is GRANTED IN PART under Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b), as to
the Amended Judgment and Order granting attorney’s fees, and otherwise
DENIED.  The Court will set a new hearing
on Plaintiff’s motion for attorney’s fees at the hearing on this motion.
 
DISCUSSION:
 
Motion
to Set Aside Judgment
 
Defendant moves to set aside the judgment entered in this
case under Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b) for mistake, inadvertence,
surprise, and excusable neglect; Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5 for lack
of proper service; Code of Civil Procedure sections 473(d) and 128(a)(8) for
lack of jurisdiction.
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant is not entitled to relief
from default as Defendant was not in default. Further, Plaintiff states that
Defendants not only received actual notice but they also filed an answer called
a “Response to Summons” jointly with Defendant Li on July 4, 2021, and both
defendants were given notice that the trial was set for May 2, 2023.  (Notice of continued Trial Date, filed August
29, 2022.)  Defendant He did not appear
on the trial date when Plaintiff and Defendant Li waived their rights to a jury
trial and the matter was set for a bench trial on May 4, 2023. The Court
ordered Plaintiff’s counsel to give notice of the continuance but the Court’s
file does not include a notice that was served on the defendants.  
 
Defendant Tao Li participated in the May 4, 2023 trial, but
Defendant He did not appear.  The Clerk
gave Defendant He notice of the trial proceedings and the Court’s rulings, as
captured in the May 4, 2023 minute order, but she made no effort to challenge
the results of the trial.  In addition,
Plaintiff served the Proposed Judgment on Defendant He on May 8, 2023, but she
filed no objections to its language.  The
Clerk served notice of entry of judgment on June 2, 2023 on all parties.  
 
Plaintiff’s
motion for attorney’s fees was served on both parties on June 22, 2023 and granted
at the noticed hearing on July 18, 2023. (Notice of Ruling on Motion for
Attorneys’ Fees, Ex. 10 to AES Dec.) Again, notice of the Court’s ruling was
sent to both defendants.  On August 3,
2023, this Court signed Plaintiff’s Amended Judgment which included Plaintiff’s
award of attorneys’ fees. The Notice of Entry of Judgment with the Amended
Judgment was served on Defendants on August 17, 2023 via U.S. Mail. (Notice of
Entry of Judgment, Ex. 11 to AES Dec.)
 
In
her declaration in support of the motion, Defendant He states she and Defendant
Li arrived late to the courtroom on the trial date and “missed the trial,”
because of her obligations to take her Autistic child for therapy.   She also states that she first learned of
the judgment against her on August 21, 2023, which is likely when she received
the Amended Judgment reflecting the attorneys' fees award granted by the Court.  Defendant asserts that she filed her motion
within a reasonable time thereafter on September 14, 2023, asserts she has a
good defense to Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees, and requests an
opportunity to present her arguments to contest any fee award. 
 
Plaintiff states Code of Civil Procedure section 473(d) is
not applicable because the judgment conforms to the judgment of this Court and
is not void. Finally, Plaintiff asserts that Defendants are not entitled to
relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 128(a)(8) as the judgment obtained
is in conformity with all applicable laws. 
 
CCP
473(b)
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b) provides in
pertinent part: 
 
The court
may, upon any terms as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal
representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken
against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. Application for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy
of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the
application shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time,
in no case exceeding six months, after the judgment…was taken. 
 
Section 473(b) also authorizes the Court to grant relief
from default using the Court’s equitable powers. (Aldrich v. San Fernando
Valley Lumber Co., Inc. (1985) 170 Cal.3d 725, 736.) As this motion seeks
relief from a default judgment entered for failure to appear at trial, no
proposed pleading is required.  
 
Here, Defendant He fail to show that judgment was taken against her
during the May 4, 2023 trial as a result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise or
neglect.  On the other hand, Defendant He
has provided a sworn declaration asserting that she and Defendant Ti missed the
hearing on Plaintiff’s motion for attorneys’ fees because their parental
obligations resulted in them arriving after the hearing had concluded.  The Court finds Defendants have demonstrated
excusable neglect based on this showing. 
Further, Defendants have sought relief promptly, filing their motion
less than one month after receiving notice of the Amended Judgment
incorporating the Court’s fee award.  For
these reasons, the Court finds that Defendant He has demonstrated entitlement
to set aside the Amended Judgment and Order granting attorney’s fees under Code of Civil Procedure section 473(b).  The Court sets those the Amended Judgment and
Order aside and will set a new hearing on Plaintiff’s motion for attorney’s
fees at the hearing on this motion.
 
CCP
473.5
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 473.5 states: “(a) When
service of a summons has not resulted in actual notice to a party in time to
defend the action and a default or default judgment has been entered against
him or her in the action, he or she may serve and file a notice of motion to
set aside the default or default judgment and for leave to defend the action.
The notice of motion shall be served and filed within a reasonable time, but in
no event exceeding the earlier of: (i) two years after entry of a default judgment against him
or her; or (ii) 180 days after service on him or her of a written notice that
the default or default judgment has been entered. 
 
(b) A notice of motion to set aside a default or default
judgment and for leave to defend the action shall designate as the time for
making the motion a date prescribed by subdivision (b) of Section 1005, and it
shall be accompanied by an affidavit showing under oath that the party’s lack
of actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her
avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect. The party shall serve and file
with the notice a copy of the answer, motion, or other pleading proposed to be
filed in the action.  
 
(c) Upon a finding by the court that the motion was made
within the period permitted by subdivision (a) and that his or her lack of
actual notice in time to defend the action was not caused by his or her
avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect, it may set aside the default or
default judgment on whatever terms as may be just and allow the party to defend
the action.” 
 
Here,
Plaintiff provides evidence that Defendants not only received actual notice,
but that they also filed a responsive pleading, and Defendant Tao Li
participated in the trial on May 4, 2023. (Exs. 1, 2, 5, & 7.) Defendants
provide no evidence to refute this showing. Thus, the Court finds that there is
no basis under Code of Civil Procedure § 473.5 upon which Defendants’ motion
may be granted.
 
CCP
473(d)
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 473 subdivision (d), provides that “[t]he court ...
may on¿motion¿of either party after notice to the other party,¿set¿aside¿any
void judgment or order. “A judgment void on its face ... is subject to
collateral attack at any time.” (Rochin v. Pat Johnson Mfg. Co. (1998)
67 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1239.) This does not hinge on evidence: A void judgment's
invalidity appears on the¿face of the record, including the proof of
service. (Morgan v. Clapp¿(1929) 207 Cal. 221, 224-225;¿Cruz v. Fagor
America, Inc. (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 488, 496.) “[A]
default¿judgment¿entered against a defendant who has not been served with a
summons in the manner prescribed by statute is void.” (Dill v. Berquist
Construction Co.¿(1994) 24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1444.)¿ 
 
Here,
the Proposed Judgment was served on Defendants on May 8, 2023. (Proposed
Judgment, Ex. 12 to AES Dec.) The Proposed Amended Judgment was served on
Defendants on July 18, 2023. (Proposed Amended Judgment, Ex. 13 to AES Dec.) Plaintiff
states that Defendants failed to file objections to either proposed judgment.
Thus, when the statutory time within which to object expired, judgment was
entered. (CRC 3.1590(g).) Defendants fail to show that the judgment is void.
Thus, there is no basis under Code of Civil Procedure 473 subsection (d) upon
which relief may be granted. 
 
CCP
128(a)(8)
 
Every court has the power to amend and control its process
and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. (Code of
Civil Procedure § 128(a)(8).) As Plaintiff points out, Defendants fail to show
any basis upon which judgment should be or can be set aside.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion to Set Aside/Vacate Default and
Default Judgment is GRANTED IN PART under Code of Civil Procedure section
473(b), as to the Amended Judgment and Order granting attorney’s fees, and
otherwise DENIED.  The Court will set a
new hearing on Plaintiff’s motion for attorney’s fees at the hearing on this
motion.
 
Moving party to give notice, unless waived.  
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated:   November 9,
2023                                      ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by
no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested
parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you
submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any
party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your
right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may
not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative
ruling in whole or in part.
 
 