 Case Number:  23AHCV01862    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      January 17, 2024                                             TRIAL
DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         CAVANAUGH
THOMPSON, v. CITY OF PASADENA, a Municipal Corporation; PASADENA POLICE
DEPARTMENT, a public safety department; and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV01862
 
            
 
MOTION
TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant City of Pasadena
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
Cavanaugh Thompson
 
SERVICE:                              Filed December 19, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed January 3, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   No reply filed. 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendants move to set aside
default entered against the City of Pasadena on November 14, 2023, and the
Pasadena Police Department on November 16, 2023. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Cavanaugh Thompson’s
claim that he was unlawfully terminated from his employment with the Pasadena
Police Department and subject to discrimination. Plaintiff filed this complaint
on August 15, 2023, alleging seven causes of action for (1) relief for
violation of POBRA, Government Code section 3309.5, (2) whistleblower
retaliation, Labor Code section 1102.5, (3) violation of due process, (4)
violation of MMBA, (5) racial discrimination, (6) failure to prevent
discrimination, and (7) retaliation under FEHA. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Defendants’
motion to set aside default is GRANTED. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“Section 473(b) provides for both discretionary and
mandatory relief. [Citation.]” (Pagnini v. Union Bank, N.A. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th
298, 302.)  The discretionary relief provisions of Code of Civil
Procedure section 473, subd. (b) provide in relevant part: “The court may, upon any terms
as may be just, relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a
judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding taken against him or her
through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application
for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or
other pleading proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application
shall not be granted, and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case
exceeding six months, after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was
taken.” 
 
The mandatory relief provision provides that a court shall grant
relief “whenever an application for relief is made no more than six months after
entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by an attorney’s sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,
vacate any (1) resulting default entered by the clerk against his or her
client, and which will result in entry of a default judgment, or (2) resulting
default judgment or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the
court finds that the default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the
attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc.
section 473, subd. (b).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendants move to set aside the entry of default. Plaintiff filed his
initial complaint on August 15, 2023. The complaint was served on October 6,
2023. Default was entered against the City of Pasadena on November 14, 2023.
Default was entered against the Pasadena Police Department on November 16,
2023. Defendants argue that the defaults entered against them are void.[1]
 
            “The court may, upon motion of the
injured party, or its own motion, correct clerical mistakes in its judgment or
orders as entered, so as to conform to the judgment or order directed, and may,
on motion of either party after notice to the other party, set aside any void
judgment or order.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 473,
subd. (d).) 
 
            Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.40, subdivision (a), Defendants had 30
days from October 6, 2023, to demur to the complaint. However, provide that
they filed a declaration automatically extending the time to respond. 
 
“If the parties are not able to meet and
confer at least 5 days before the date the responsive pleading is due, the
demurring party shall be granted an automatic 30-day extension of time within
which to file a responsive pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the
date on which a demurrer would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of
perjury that a good faith attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining
the reasons why the parties could not meet and confer. The 30-day extension
shall commence from the date the responsive pleading was previously due, and
the demurring party shall not be subject to default during the period of the
extension.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41.)
 
Defendants
provide that they attempted to meet and confer and agree to an extension on
October 31, 2023. (Navarro Decl. ¶ 5.) Defendants provide that
Plaintiff’s counsel responded on November 3, 2023, stating he only agreed to
the extension if Defendants answered without a demurrer. (Id. ¶ 6.)
Plaintiff’s response on November 3, 2023, was within 5 days of the date
Defendants’ responsive pleading was due. Defendants also provide that the
purpose of the declaration was to obtain the automatic extension. (Id. ¶
8.) Thus, the parties were not able to meet and confer at least 5 days before
the deadline, and Defendant submitted the appropriate declaration. 
 
            Interestingly,
Plaintiff disregarded this declaration and sought an entry of default against
both Defendants despite the fact that Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
provides that “the demurring
party shall not be subject to default during the period of the extension.” In
opposition Plaintiff argues that the declaration was deficient but does not
state how or why Defendants’ attempt to obtain the automatic extension was
insufficient.
 
            Thus,
because default was entered against both Defendants during the automatic
extension, the entries of default are void. Defendants’ motion to set aside the
entry of default against the City of Pasadena and the PDD is granted pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (d).
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Defendants’
motion to set aside default is GRANTED. 
 
            Moving
Party to provide notice. 
 
 
            
Dated:   January 17,
2024                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention
to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org 


