  Case Number:  22AHCV00928    Hearing Date:   January 17, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     January
17, 2024                                 TRIAL
DATE: April 16, 2024 
                                                           
CASE:                         GARY LIVINGSTON v.
SCOTT BROWN, an individual; PASADENA CENTER OPERATING COMPANY, a nonprofit
corporation; PASADENA ICE SKATING CENTER, an unknown business entity; and DOES
1-20.  
 
CASE NO.:                 22AHCV00928
 
            
 
MOTION
FOR AN ORDER PERMITTING DISCOVERY

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Gary Livingston
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendant
Scott Brown
 
SERVICE:                              Filed December 19, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed January 3, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed January 9, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
Plaintiff moves for an order permitting discovery into Defendant’s
financial condition related to his claim for punitive damages. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff Gary
Livingston’s (“Plaintiff”) claim that Defendant Scott Brown (“Defendant”) used
violence against Plaintiff during a hockey game. Plaintiff filed a first
amended complaint on April 28, 2023, alleging two causes of action for (1)
general negligence and (2) intentional tort against Defendant Scott Brown,
Pasadena Center Operating Company, and Pasadena Ice Skating Center.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Plaintiff’s motion for an order permitting
discovery of Defendant’s financial condition is DENIED.
             
OBJECTIONS TO EVIDENCE 
 
            Plaintiff
objects to the declaration of Jeremy L.A. Hill Edwards, paragraphs 3 and 4 and
exhibits A and B.
 
“Authentication of a writing means
(a) the introduction of evidence sufficient to sustain a finding that it is the
writing that the proponent of the evidence claims it is or (b) the
establishment of such facts by any other means provided by law.” (Evidence Code
section 1400.) 
 
Defendant has failed to
authenticate the exhibits at issue, and Plaintiff’s objections are SUSTAINED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff moves for an order permitting discovery into Defendant’s
financial condition related to his claim for punitive damages. 
 
            “No pretrial discovery by the plaintiff shall be permitted with respect
to the evidence referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subdivision (a) unless
the court enters an order permitting such discovery pursuant to this
subdivision. . . . Upon motion by the plaintiff supported by appropriate
affidavits and after a hearing, if the court deems a hearing to be necessary,
the court may at any time enter an order permitting the discovery otherwise
prohibited by this subdivision if the court finds, on the basis of the
supporting and opposing affidavits presented, that the plaintiff has
established that there is a substantial probability that the plaintiff will
prevail on the claim pursuant to Section 3294.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 3295, subd. (c).)
 
            “[W]e interpret
the words ‘substantial probability’ to mean ‘very likely’ or ‘a strong
likelihood’ just as their plain meaning suggests.” (Jabro v. Superior Court (2002)
95 Cal.App.4th 754, 758.) 
 
            Both parties
submit declarations reciting their version of the events. Plaintiff provides
that on September 12, 2022, he was playing in an ice hockey game against
Defendant’s team. (Livingston Decl. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff provides that Defendant, “for no apparent reason”,
began to follow Plaintiff around and cross-checked Plaintiff more than once. (Id.
¶¶ 3-4.) Plaintiff provides that he asked Defendant to stop cross-checking
and hurting him. (Id. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff provides that when the players
were heading to their benches Defendant aggressively moved closer to him, taunted
him, and punched him in the face. (Id. ¶ 5.) Plaintiff provides that
while he was on the floor Defendant struck him again in the back of his head. (Ibid.)

 
            In opposition, Defendant provides that Plaintiff’s
description of “cross-checking” was conduct were the two were jostling for
position or control of the puck. (Brown
Decl. ¶ 4.) Defendant provides that immediately prior to the incident,
he was heading back to his bench when Plaintiff skated up to him and squared up
to him. (Id. ¶ 5.) Defendant provides that he reflectively raised his
hands and pushed Plaintiff’s upper chest while holding his hockey stick. (Ibid.)
 
            Because Plaintiff is moving for an order permitting
discovery, he bears the burden of demonstrating a substantial probability on
his punitive damages claim. 
 
            “In an action
for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven
by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages,
may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 3294, subd. (a).) “ ‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
3294, subd. (a).)
 
            The
parties present two different representations of the series of events that give
rise to this lawsuit. Plaintiff and his teammates contend that Defendant was the
primary aggressor who checked Plaintiff so hard his helmet fell off. (See Smith
Decl. ¶ 3; Roman Decl. ¶ 3.) Defendant argues that Plaintiff was the
primary aggressor; he merely acted reactively; and he never intended to injure
the Plaintiff.  Plaintiff argues in reply
that Defendant’s only evidence is his self-serving declaration. Unfortunately,
Plaintiff’s evidence is similarly based on his own self-serving declarations in
addition to the declarations of his teammates. The parties, to an extent, agree
that Plaintiff was injured during the incident. However, Plaintiff has the
burden to demonstrate a “substantial probability” that he will prevail in
demonstrating that Defendant intended to cause Plaintiff harm or acted
with conscious disregard of Plaintiff’s safety. Plaintiff has failed to
do so here. Plaintiff has however established that during a hockey game he was
injured by Defendant.  This is
insufficient for the relief requested.
 
            Plaintiff’s motion for an order permitting discovery is
denied. The court emphasize that this order “shall not be
considered to be a determination on the merits of the claim or any defense
thereto and shall not be given in evidence or referred to at the trial.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 3295, subd. (c).)
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiff’s motion for an order permitting
discovery of Defendant’s financial condition is DENIED.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   January 17,
2024                                           ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
