 Case Number:  22STCV32849    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  39 Marvin Kay v.
Gregory A. Yates, et al.
Case No.
22STCV32849
 
Ex Parte
Application to Continue MSJ Hearing
 
Motion for Reconsideration
of Court’s Decision to Grant 
Motion for
Judgment on the Pleadings 
 
            Plaintiff
Marvin Kay (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Gregory A. Yates and his
practice, asserting causes of action for breach of contract and conversion.  Plaintiff alleges that there was a referral
agreement which entitled Plaintiff to fees relating to Mr. Yates’ work on behalf
of the plaintiff in Case Number BC661807, who is Mr. Anthony Miramontes.  Plaintiff alleges that Mr. Yates did not pay
him a share of the fees for one of the settlements, the “Lime Grove
settlement.”  Yates argues that this
settlement was not covered by the parties’ referral agreement.  
 
            On
September 26, 2023, the Court granted Defendants Steve Vartazarian and his practice’s
motion for judgment on the pleadings because Yates, not Vartazarian, signed the
contract with Plaintiff.  (See Court’s
Minute Order, dated September 26, 2023.) 
The Court denied the motion with respect to Gregory A. Yates and his
practice (collectively, “Defendants”). 
(Ibid.) 
 
            The
petition to approve the Lime Grove settlement was sealed, so Plaintiff sought access
to this sealed document.  At a hearing on
November 6, 2023, the Court considered Plaintiff’s need for the information
versus the settling parties’ privacy interests and bifurcated
discovery/dispositive motions to address this issue.  Specifically, the Court ruled as follows: 
 
“The parties
will first take discovery on the issue of whether the Lime Grove settlement
falls within the scope of the parties’ agreement, e.g., whether Mr. Yates
worked on the case, whether the Lime Grove portion of the case falls within the
parties’ agreement, etc.  In other words,
the first phase of discovery—‘Phase One’—will address every issue not dependent
upon the amount of the Lime Grove settlement and Mr. Yates’s fee for the Lime
Grove settlement.  The Court will then
hear the motion for summary judgment/adjudication.  If the motion is denied, the parties will
then take discovery on the remaining issue—‘Phase Two’—which is whether Mr.
Yates’ fee for his work on the Lime Grove settlement reaches the necessary threshold
of the parties’ agreement and how much of this fee should be paid to
Plaintiff.  If the case reaches Phase
Two, the Court will determine at that point whether, and to what extent,
Plaintiff’s counsel is entitled to information about the Lime Grove settlement
amount and the attorneys’ fees.  The
Court believes that bifurcation is the most equitable way to balance
Plaintiff’s need for the information with the settling parties’ interest in
confidentiality, as Plaintiff would not be able to access the confidential
information unless and until it is clear it is necessary.”
 
(See Court’s Minute Order, dated November 6, 2023.)  Plaintiff’s counsel sought access to the petition
to approve the Lime Grove settlement, which was sealed, and the Court ordered
disclosure of sufficient information to resolve the issues in Phase One.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated November 14,
2023.)
 
            The Court anticipated
that the parties would litigate the dispositive issues: Whether Mr. Yates
worked Mr. Miramontes’s cases and, if so, whether “the Lime Grove portion of the
case falls within the parties’ agreement.” 
If not, Plaintiff has no causes of action for breach of contract and conversion.  Inexplicably, the parties are back before the
Court litigating issues relating to Phase Two. 
Defendants filed a motion for summary adjudication, arguing that the
payment Yates received from Vartazarian is not a “specific sum capable of
identification,” entitling Defendants to summary adjudication of the conversion
claim.  Understandably, Plaintiff’s
counsel now seeks to continue the hearing on Defendants’ motion to conduct
discovery on this issue.
 
            The Court
orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court only intends to consider
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment/adjudication with respect to the issues
in Phase One: Whether Mr. Yates worked on the Lime Grove settlement; whether
the Lime Grove settlement was part of his referral agreement with Plaintiff;
whether the referral agreement is valid, etc. 
 
            2.         Based upon the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
ex parte application is denied without prejudice.  If Plaintiff’s counsel believes that the
Court’s ruling on Defendants’ motion for summary judgment strays beyond the
issues in Phase One, he may request a continuance at the hearing on the motion.  To assist the Court, in his opposition to the
motion, Plaintiff’s counsel should identify those issues which fall outside the
Court’s bifurcation order.     
 
            3.         Upon review of the record, the Court may
have erred in granting Steve Vartazarian and his practice’s motion for judgment
on the pleadings with respect to the cause of action for conversion.  Vartazarian did not sign the referral
agreement, which was the basis of the Court’s decision to grant the motion.  However, in Defendants’ motion for summary
judgment, they represent that Vartazarian handled the Lime Grove settlement and
received the settlement proceeds, and Vartazarian then paid Yates pursuant to
their fee splitting agreement.  (See
Defendants’ Memorandum of Points and Authorities, p. 31:15-32:1.)  If Vartazarian did so knowing that Plaintiff
was entitled to a portion of those funds, Vartazarian may be liable for
conversion.  Therefore, the Court notices
its own motion for reconsideration to determine whether it should vacate its order
of September 26, 2023, and issue a new and different order denying Vartazarian
and his practice’s motion for judgment on the pleadings on the conversion claim.  The Court has inherent authority to reconsider
any of its rulings.  (Le Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1094, 1103.)  The date/time/place of the hearing shall be
the same as Defendants’ motion for summary judgment: March 18, 2024, at 8:30
a.m.  Vartazarian and his practice may
file an opposition to this motion, and Plaintiff may file a reply brief, on or
before the statutory deadlines.  If the Court
denies Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, it shall hear argument on the motion
for reconsideration.  If the Court grants
the motion, it shall discuss the discovery schedule and trial date with counsel
for both Yates and Vartazarian. 
 
            4.         The Court’s clerk shall provide notice
to all parties, including Steve Vartazarian and his practice.  
 