 Case Number:  24SMCP00411    Hearing Date:   November 18, 2024    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Creative
Artists Agency LLC v. Range Media Partners LLC 
CASE NO.:                24SMCP00411
MOTION:                  Motion
to Compel Depositions of Respondents Micelli and PMK
HEARING DATE:   11/18/2024
 
Legal
Standard
 
Service of a proper deposition notice obligates a party or
“party-affiliated” witness (officer, director, managing agent or employee of
party) to attend and testify, as well as produce any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing for inspection and copying. (CCP §
2025.280(a).) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party deponent fails
to appear, testify, or produce documents or tangible things for inspection
without having served a valid objection under CCP § 2025.410, the deposing
party may move for an order compelling attendance, testimony, and production.
(CCP § 2025.450(a).) The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration, or, when a party deponent fails to attend the deposition, the
motion must also be accompanied by a declaration stating that the moving party
has contacted the party deponent to inquire about the nonappearance. (CCP §
2025.450(b)(2).) If the deposition notice included a request for production of
documents, the motion to compel attendance must also show good cause to justify
the production. (CCP § 2025.450(b)(1).) 
  
A motion to compel production of documents described in a
deposition notice must be accompanied by a showing of good cause. (CCP §
2025.450(b)(1).) In other words, the moving party must provide declarations
containing specific facts justifying inspection of the documents described in
the notice. Courts liberally construe good cause in favor of discovery where
facts show the documents are necessary for trial preparation. 
 
The motion to compel must be “made no later than 60 days
after the completion of the record of the deposition.” (CCP § 2025.480(b).)
This time limit also applies to motions based on a deposition subpoena for
production of documents or a business records subpoena. The 60-day time limit
runs from the date objections are served because the deposition record is then
complete. (Rutledge v. Hewlett-Packard Co. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1164,
1192.) 
 
Analysis
 

Petitioners Creative Artists
Agency, LLC; Creative Artists Agency Holdings, LLC; CAA Holdings, LLC; and CAA
Equity Incentive, Series 2 LLC (collectively “CAA”) move to compel Respondents
Range Media Partners, LLC, and Peter Micelli (“Respondents”) to comply with
CAA’s discovery requests and appear at their depositions with the requested
documents, within two weeks.
 
Separate Statement
 
A separate statement is generally required
to compel the production of documents or tangible things at a deposition. (CRC
Rule 3.1345(a)(5).) Here, Respondents responded to the deposition notices and document
requests. The motion involves the content of a discovery request and the
responses to such a request, and thus required a separate statement. While that
would be a basis to deny this motion, the Court will consider the merits. 
 
Noticed Topics and Requests
 
On August 2, 2024, CAA filed the
Petition in this action to compel Respondents to comply with certain
third-party subpoenas issued in an underlying Arbitration Proceeding. (Pet. ¶¶
8, 20-36.) Respondents failed to obey the Arbitration Subpoenas. The Petition
requests that the court order Respondents to obey the Arbitration Subpoenas and
appear for a hearing in January 2025, at which they shall produce the requested
documents. (Pet. ¶ 38.)  The deposition
notices and request for documents were served by CAA on September 24, 2024.
(Fee Decl., ¶ 10, Exs. E & F.) CAA seeks to depose on the Respondents on
the following ten topics:
 
TOPIC NO. 1: RANGE’s organizational
structure, each CLAIMANT’S position within its structure (including whether
they are members of the LLC), the date each CLAIMANT began performing services
for RANGE, and each CLAIMANT’S possession, custody, and control over RANGE DOCUMENTS,
including those sought by CAA in the ARBITRATION since January 1, 2020.
 
TOPIC NO. 2: Nonprivileged
COMMUNICATIONS within RANGE regarding the MICELLI SUBPOENA, including service
of the subpoena, compliance, and potential enforcement action.
 
TOPIC NO. 3: COMMUNICATIONS between
RANGE and CLAIMANTS—including through their respective counsel—regarding the
MICELLI SUBPOENA, including service of the subpoena, compliance, and potential
enforcement action.
 
TOPIC NO. 4: Nonprivileged
COMMUNICATIONS within RANGE regarding the RANGE SUBPOENA, including compliance
and potential enforcement action.
 
TOPIC NO. 5: COMMUNICATIONS between
RANGE and CLAIMANTS—including through their respective counsel—regarding the
RANGE SUBPOENA, including compliance and potential enforcement action.
 
TOPIC NO. 6: COMMUNICATIONS between
RANGE and CLAIMANTS—including through their respective counsel—regarding the
ARBITRATION.
 
TOPIC NO. 7: RANGE’s document
retention policy, including whether RANGE contends its DOCUMENTS include
materials CLAIMANTS created while still members of Creative Artists Agency
Holdings, LLC.
 
TOPIC NO. 8: All efforts by any
CLAIMANT to secure and produce DOCUMENTS in the ARBITRATION and RANGE’s
response on each occasion, including the identity of the decision maker, the
decision maker’s title, and the rationale for any refusal or limitation on any CLAIMANT’S
collection and production of RANGE DOCUMENTS in the ARBITRATION.
 
TOPIC NO. 9: Whether RANGE decided
that the DOCUMENTS being sought by CAA from CLAIMANTS in ARBITRATION were
outside the possession, custody, and control of CLAIMANTS and the basis for
that decision if made.
 
TOPIC NO. 10: COMMUNICATIONS
between RANGE and CLAIMANTS—including through their respective
counsel—regarding producing, or restricting the production of, DOCUMENTS in the
ARBITRATION.
 
CAA makes fourteen requests for
production of documents. The first ten request documents pertaining to their
respective topics (noted above), with the addition of the following: 
 
RPD 11. All DOCUMENTS evidencing,
constituting, discussing, or otherwise pertaining to RANGE’s organizational
structure, including, but not limited to, RANGE’s investors, ownership, partners,
managing partners, and members.
 
RPD 12. All DOCUMENTS evidencing,
constituting, discussing, or otherwise pertaining to RESPONDENTS’ knowledge
that CLAIMANTS were ordered on January 22, 2024, to undertake a search and
produce documents in their possession, custody, and control, including RANGE DOCUMENTS,
in the ARBITRATION.
 
RPD 13. All DOCUMENTS evidencing,
constituting, discussing, or otherwise pertaining to correspondence or other
written or oral COMMUNICATIONS between Robert Whittel and CLAIMANTS regarding
any CAA discovery request to CLAIMANTS in the ARBITRATION.
 
RPD 14. All DOCUMENTS evidencing,
constituting, discussing, or otherwise pertaining to whether CLAIMANTS have
possession, custody, or control of RANGE DOCUMENTS to
produce them in the ARBITRATION.
 
CAA fails to show good cause for
discovery on the above topics and requests. The requested information is not
reasonably calculated to lead to evidence relevant to the outcome on this
Petition. Rather than seeking information on the enforceability of the
Arbitration Subpoenas, the instant discovery is designed to secure the substantive
relief sought on the Petition itself prior to the hearing on the Petition. For
instance, Range’s organizational structure and document retention policy have nothing
to do with the enforceability of the arbitration subpoenas. Rather, this
relates to Range’s ability to respond substantively to the subpoenas. Likewise,
Respondents’ communications concerning the arbitration and/or arbitration
subpoenas have no bearing on the arbitration subpoenas’ enforceability. Respondents’
acts taken in compliance with the arbitration subpoenas or any contemplated
responses to the subpoenas themselves would not affect the enforceability of
the arbitration subpoenas, and thus have no bearing on the outcome of the
Petition. Indeed, Respondents’ possession of responsive items to the
Arbitration Subpoenas is not relevant to the enforceability of the subpoenas
themselves.
 
CAA argue that the requests reflect
“routine discovery” which is highly relevant to the petition, specifically: “information
concerning Respondents’ possession, custody, and control of the items sought by
the JAMS Subpoenas.” (Memo. at 9.) CAA concludes that this evidence will ensure
that the Court is able to resolve the petition based on evidence, rather than
speculation. However, CAA does not explain what any such discovered evidence
might show. CAA suggests that this information may be used to file an anticipated
amended petition, but again CAA fails to explain what these amendments might
entail and how the requested discovery would lead to those amendments. 
 
CAA’s position appears to be that
it needs discovery from Respondents to determine whether it is entitled (in the
arbitration) to discovery from Respondents. That is rather circular and nonsensical.  The issues in this Petition are straightforward
– were CAA’s arbitration subpoenas valid or are they improper overly burdensome
discovery subpoenas. 
 
Accordingly, the motion is DENIED.