 Case Number:  23STCV00366    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2023    Dept:  20 Tentative Ruling
Judge Kevin C. Brazile

Department 20

Hearing Date:                         Wednesday, October 18,
2023
Case Name:                            Hernandez v. General
Motors, LLC
Case No.:                                23STCV00366
Motion:                                  Demurrer with
Motion to Strike
Moving Party:                         Defendant, General Motors,
LLC
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff 
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    The Demurrer
is SUSTAINED without leave to amend. The Motion to Strike is denied as MOOT. 
 
                                                Moving
party to give notice.
If counsel do not
submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by
LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

 

 
BACKGROUND
            This is a lemon law action. On
August 18, 2023, Plaintiff Miguel Hernandez filed the operative Second Amended
Complaint (“SAC”) against Defendant General Motors LLC for (1) fraudulent
concealment, (2) breach of express warranty under Commercial Code § 2-313, (3)
violation of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act, and (4) violation of Civil Code §
1750 et seq. 
             A previous demurrer to the FAC was sustained
on July 19, 2023. 
            On September 15, 2023, GM filed the
instant demurrer to the first cause of action for fraudulent concealment and
the fourth cause of action for violation of the Consumers Legal Remedies Act. 
 
DISCUSSION
Applicable
Law
            When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, and “treat the demurrer as
admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but not contentions, deductions
or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v. Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584,
591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007) 147
Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave
to amend if the plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect
identified by the defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hospital Dist.¿(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.) 
 
Application
to Facts
            General Motors’ Demurrer 
            GM demurs to the first cause of
action for fraudulent concealment and to the fourth cause of action for
violation of the Consumers Legal Remedies Act (“CLRA”).
 
1st cause of action for
fraudulent concealment 
            GM argues that Plaintiff failed to
allege fraud with particularity. GM argues that Plaintiff did not allege facts
showing when, where, or how GM made any misrepresentations. Additionally, GM argues
that Plaintiff failed to allege a duty to disclose on the part of GM. 
            To state a claim for fraudulent
concealment, Plaintiffs must allege: (1) the defendant “concealed or suppressed
a material fact,” (2) the defendant was “under a duty to disclose the fact to
the plaintiff,” (3) the defendant “intentionally concealed or suppressed the
fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff,” (4) the plaintiff was “unaware
of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed
or suppressed fact,” and (5) “as a result of the concealment or suppression of
the fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.” (BiglerEngler v. Breg,
Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th 276, 310–11.)¿¿ “The particularity demands that a
plaintiff plead¿facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means
the representations were tendered.”¿ (Cansino v. Bank of America¿(2014)
224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.)¿
There are “four circumstances in which
nondisclosure or concealment may constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the
defendant is in a fiduciary relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the
defendant had exclusive knowledge of material facts not known to plaintiff; (3)
when the defendant actively conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and
(4) when the defendant makes partial representations but also suppresses some
material facts.” (Heliotis v. Schuman (1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 646, 651.) However,
unless the parties were in a fiduciary relationship, the other three
circumstances presuppose the existence of some other relationship between the
plaintiff and defendant in which a duty to disclose can arise. (Bigler-Engler,
supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at p. 311.) The California Supreme Court “has described
the necessary relationship giving rise to a duty to disclose as a ‘transaction’
between the plaintiff and defendant ….” (Id. at 311.) 
GM argues that Plaintiff has not alleged a
duty to disclose because the SAC does not allege that Plaintiff purchased the
Vehicle directly from GM or entered into a transaction with GM. 
Here, Plaintiff alleges that he purchased
the Vehicle from Covina Hills Chevrolet. (SAC ¶ 31.) The SAC states that
Defendants derived a monetary benefit from the sale of the Vehicle by Covina
Hills Chevrolet. (SAC ¶ 78.)  Plaintiff
alleges no additional facts in the SAC to support a agency relationship between
the dealership and GM. (See Avalon Painting Co. v. Alert Lumber Co. (1965)
234 Cal.App.2d 178, 184 [“A Ford dealer or retailer may in a layman’s view be
an agent of the Ford Motor Co., but he is not an agent in the legal sense of
that relationship.”].) 
Further, although Plaintiff alleges that he
received a written warranty from GM, (SAC ¶ 7-8), this is not enough to show a
transactional relationship. A warranty is independent of a sale contract. (See
Ford Motor Warranty Cases (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324; Greenman v. Yuba
Power Prods., Inc. (1963) 59 Cal.2d 57, 63-64.) Thus, the fact that a
warranty existed between Plaintiff and GM is not enough to show a direct
transaction.  
Plaintiffs also allege that GM
intentionally concealed the safety risks of the defective transmission and
issued numerous deceptive press releases and marketing campaigns and failed to
disclose facts at time of purchase. (SAC ¶¶ 62-64.) A transaction giving rise to a duty to disclose must
necessarily arise from direct dealings between the plaintiff and defendant; it
cannot arise between the defendant and the public at large. (Bigler-Engler,
supra, 7 Cal.App.5th at 312.) Plaintiff does not plead that GM made any
specific representations directly to the Plaintiff, but rather that the sales
materials, advertisements, and publications were made to the general public.
Additionally, Plaintiff does not plead that the employees of the authorized
dealership were authorized agents to speak on behalf of GM such that these
employees had the duty to disclose the transmission defect. 
Additionally, even if there
was a transaction, Plaintiff fails to identify specific salespersons that he
spoke with that concealed the material information, what specific
advertisements or marketing brochures Plaintiff relied upon in purchasing the
Vehicle, when Plaintiff reviewed these materials, and who prepared the
marketing materials. (See SAC ¶¶ 63-65, 32-33.) 
As such, the demurrer to the
first cause of action for fraudulent concealment is sustained without leave to
amend. 
 
4th cause of
action for violation of the CLRA
            GM argues that Plaintiff failed to
comply with the pre-suit notice requirements to assert a CLRA claim. 
            The SAC alleges that Plaintiff
complied with the notice provisions of Civil Code § 1782 by notifying
Defendants on May 4, 2023 of the alleged violations. (SAC ¶ 149.) The SAC
states that notice was given in writing and Defendants failed to respond to the
demand. (SAC ¶ 149.) However, a plaintiff must file a preliminary notice
“thirty days or more prior to the commencement of an action for damages.” (Civ.
Code § 1782(a).) “Not less than 30 days after commencement of an action for
injunctive relief, and after compliance with subdivision (a), the consumer may
amend his or her complaint without leave of the court to include a request for
damages.” (Civ. Code § 1782(d).) Plaintiff filed this action on January 9,
2023. As such, Plaintiff’s request for damages is untimely pursuant to Civil
Code § 1782(d). However, compliance is not required to the extent Plaintiff
seeks injunctive relief. (Civ. Code § 1782(d).)  
            However, GM also argues that this
cause of action fails because Plaintiff failed to plead fraud with
particularity. The CLRA, which is codified in Civil Code §§ 1750-1784, protects
individuals engaging in consumer transactions. It prohibits “unfair methods of
competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices undertaken by any person
in a transaction intended to result or which results in the sale or lease of
goods or services to any consumer.” (Civ. Code § 1770(a).) In assessing whether
the representations made during the consumer transaction violate the CLRA,
courts use the reasonable consumer standard – i.e., whether a reasonable
consumer would be misled by the representation. (Consumer Advocates v.
Echostar Satellite Corp. (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 1351, 1360.) 
            “Causes of action under the CLRA and
UCL must be stated with reasonable particularity, which is a more lenient
pleading standard than is applied to common law fraud claims.” (Gutierrez v.
Carmax Auto Superstores California (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 1234, 1261.) 
            To the extent an alleged violation
is based on the defendant’s omission of a material fact, “to be actionable the
omission must be contrary to a representation actually made by the defendant,
or an omission of a fact the defendant was obliged to disclose.” (Daugherty
v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 824, 835.) There
is a duty to disclose “when the defendant is plaintiff’s fiduciary, when the
defendant has exclusive knowledge of material facts not known or reasonably
accessible to the plaintiff, and when the defendant actively conceals a
material fact.” (Gutierrez, supra, 19 Cal.App.5th at 1258.) 
            Here, as discussed above, Plaintiff
failed to plead a duty to disclose because Plaintiff has not pled a
transactional relationship. The entire CLRA claim is defective for the same
reason because there is no real transactional relationship pled between
Plaintiff and Defendant. 
            As such, the demurrer is sustained
without leave to amend. 
 
Motion
to Strike
            Defendant also seeks to strike the
SAC’s references to punitive damages. 
            Given the ruling on the Demurrer,
the Motion to Strike is denied as moot. 
            
CONCLUSION
            The Demurrer is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend. The Motion to Strike is denied as MOOT. 
            Moving party to give notice.
            If counsel do not submit on the
tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than
in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.