 Case Number:  22STCV23928    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2023    Dept:  20 Tentative Ruling
Judge Kevin C. Brazile

Department 20

Hearing
Date:                         Wednesday, October
18, 2023
Case
Name:                             Dixon
v. Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, et al.
Case
No.:                                22STCV23928            
Motion                                  (1) Motion to
Deem Request for Admissions, Set One, Admitted and Request for Sanctions of $860;
and
                                                (2)
Motion to Compel Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, and
Request for Sanctions of $860.
Moving
Party:                         Plaintiff
Gregory Page Dixon 
Responding
Party:                   Defendant Los
Angeles Dodgers, LLC 
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    (1) The
Motion to Deem Request for Admissions, Set One, Admitted is DENIED as moot. The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s requests for sanctions against Defendant in connection
with this motion in the reduced amount of $400, payable within 30 days of this
order.
 
(2) The Motion to
Compel Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, is GRANTED.
Defendant shall serve verified responses, without objection, within 30 days of
this order. The Court DENIES Plaintiff’s requests for sanctions against
Defendant in connection with this motion.
 
Plaintiff
to give notice.
 
If counsel do not
submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by
LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

 

 
BACKGROUND
            On
October 4, 2023, Plaintiff Gregory Page Dixon (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against Defendant Los Angeles Dodgers, LLC
(“Defendant”) alleging the following causes of action: (1) negligence; (2)
premises liability; (3) assault; (4) battery; (5) false imprisonment; (6)
violation of “federal civil rights,” (7) negligent hiring, supervision, and
retention; and (8) violation of the Tom Bane Civil Rights Act (Civil Code §
52.1). Plaintiff alleges he was a Dodgers game when he unlawfully assaulted and
battered by off-duty security employees and that officers of the Los Angeles
Police who had observed the altercation did not to assist Plaintiff to prevent
any foreseeable harm. 
            On
September 27, 2022, Plaintiff propounded, inter alia, Request for
Admissions, Set One (“RFAs”) and Request for Production of Documents, Set One
(“RPDs”), on Defendant. However, Defendant failed to respond at all to these
discovery requests.
            On
August 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to deem RFAs admitted and
motion to compel responses to the RPDs.
            On
October 4, 2023, Defendant filed its oppositions to the instant motions.
 
DISCUSSION
Applicable
Law
A.    Compelling
Initial Discovery
Within 30 days after
service of a demand for inspection, the party to whom the request for
production is made shall serve the original response to the request, unless
otherwise agreed to or ordered. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.260(a).) A party
requesting the production of documents may seek an order compelling a response
when there has not been a timely response to the request for production. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2031.300.) Moreover, where a party fails to timely respond to a
production request, the delinquent party waives all objections to production
and the requesting party may seek a motion to compel. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.300.)
The court “shall” impose monetary sanctions “against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel response to a demand for inspection,
copying, testing, or sampling, unless it finds that the one subject to the
sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make
the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300(c).)
B.     Deeming Admissions
Admitted
Where a party fails to timely respond to a
request for admission, the propounding party may move for an order that the
genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280(b).)  The party who
failed to respond waives any objections to the demand, unless the court grants
them relief from the waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently
served a substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to
respond was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280(a)(1)-(2).)  The court shall grant a motion to deem
admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom the
requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on the
motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in
substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280(c).)
 
Application
to Facts
            Plaintiff
served his first
set of RFAs
and RPDs on Defendant on September 27, 2022 by email. (diDonato Decls., ¶ 2 and
Exhs. 1.) Plaintiff asserts that Defendant failed to respond at any time within
the statutory deadline or beyond it. (Id., ¶ 3.) 
In opposition, Defendant
contends that the parties had agreed that discovery in this action was not an
immediate priority when other related cases had a pending trial date.
(Opposition re: RFAs at pg. 2; Opposition re: RPDs at pg. 2.)  Defendant further argues that the instant
motions are moot because Plaintiff has been served with verified responses to
Plaintiff’s RFAs and RPDs on October 3, 2023. (Robie Decls. ¶ 2, Exhs. 1.) 
Upon review of these
verified responses to Plaintiff’s RFAs and RPDs, the Court finds that the
former responses substantially comply with Code of Civil Procedure § 2033.220.
However, the latter responses improperly include objections despite having been
waived due to Defendant’s failure to timely respond to Plaintiff’s RPDs. (See
Opposition re: RPDs; Robie Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) It is noted that Defendant has
not moved to be relieved of this waiver pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure §
2031.300(a). Thus, the responses that Defendant served on Plaintiff are
insufficient and do not render the motion moot. 
            Accordingly, the
motion to deem RFAs admitted is DENIED as moot, and the motion to compel
responses to the RPDs is GRANTED. Defendant shall serve Code-compliant
and verified responses to Plaintiff’s RPDs, without objections, within 30 days
of this order.   
 
Sanctions
            Plaintiff
requests sanctions in the amount of $860 against Defendant corresponding with
each motion, totaling $1720. In addition to the $60 filing fee for each motion,
Plaintiff’s counsel attests that his hourly rate is $400 and that the
preparation of the motions and the resulting court appearances would take four
hours in total. (See diDanto Decls. ¶ 4.) 
In connection with
Plaintiff’s motion to deem RFAs admitted, sanctions are mandatory pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure § 2033.280(c). Nevertheless, the requested amounts
are excessive under the circumstances. First, in comparing the Plaintiff’s
various discovery motions, it is clear that the motions are nearly identical,
cookie-cutter in nature, and concern non-complicated discovery issues. Thus, it
is unlikely that Plaintiff’s counsel expended a significant time for these
motions. Second, Plaintiff’s appearance will likely be remote. Thus,
Plaintiff’s sanctions request in connection with his motion to deem RFAs
admitted is reduced to $400, consisting of .85 hour of attorney time at a rate
of $400 per hour and $60 in filing fees. 
While Plaintiff was successful
on his motion to compel responses regarding his RPDs, the imposition of further
sanctions would be unjust under the circumstances. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300(c).) First, Plaintiff
has been already been awarded sanctions in connection with his various
discovery motions. As indicated above, these motions were
largely identical. Thus, it would be improper to continue to reward Plaintiff
for this tactic. Therefore, the requested sanctions in connection with his
motion to compel responses to his RPDs is denied.  
            Accordingly, in
connection with Plaintiff’s motion to deem RFAs admitted, the Court grants
Plaintiff’s requests for monetary sanctions in the reduced
amount of $400, and with regard to the monetary sanctions request made in his
motion to compel responses to his RPDs, the Court denies this request in its
entirety.

CONCLUSION
The Motion to Deem Request for Admission, Set One, Admitted is DENIED as moot. The Court
GRANTS Plaintiff’s requests for sanctions against Defendant in connection with
this motion in the reduced amount of $400, payable within 30 days of this
order.
The Motion to Compel
Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, is GRANTED. Defendant shall serve verified responses, without objection, within 30 days of
this order. The Court
DENIES Plaintiff’s requests for sanctions against Defendant in connection with
this motion.


            If
counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear
by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
 