  Case Number:  22STCV19107    Hearing Date:   October 18, 2023    Dept:  20 Tentative Ruling
Judge Kevin C. Brazile

Department 20

Hearing Date:                         Wednesday, October 18,
2023
Case Name:                            Galindo v.
Phillips 66 Company, et al.
Case No.:                                22STCV19107
Motion:                                  Demurrer
without Motion to Strike
Moving Party:                         Defendant Heriberto
Plascencia (“Plascencia”)
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Maynor Galindo
(“Plaintiff”) 
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    Defendant
Plascencia’s demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH 30 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.

Plascencia to give
notice.

If counsel do not
submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by
LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.

 

 
BACKGROUND
            On June 10, 2022, Plaintiff Maynor
Galindo (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Phillips 66 Company,
a California Corporation (“Phillips 66”); Raudell Doe, an individual; Beto Doe,
an individual; and Does 1 through 100, inclusive.  The Complaint alleges that during his employment
with Phillips 66, Plaintiff was discriminated against and harassed due to his
race, color, national origin, and/or ancestry, which is Armenian. 
The
Complaint asserts eight causes of action for (1) race/national origin
harassment in violation of FEHA; (2) race/national origin discrimination in
violation of FEHA; (3) race/national origin discrimination in violation of
FEHA; (4) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and retaliation in
violation of FEHA; (5) negligent hiring and retention; (6) intentional
infliction of emotional distress; (7) whistleblower violations under Labor Code
§ 1102.5; and (8) retaliation and wrongful termination in violation of public
policy. 
            On August 19, 2022, Plaintiff filed
an Amendment to Complaint, amending Defendant Raudell Doe’s name to Raudel
Humberto Covarrubias.
            On March 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed
an Amendment to Complaint, amending Defendant Beto Doe’s name to Heriberto
Plascencia.  
            On July 10, 2023, Defendant
Heriberto Plascencia (“Plascencia”) filed a Declaration of Demurring Party in
Support of Automatic Extension, stating he made a good faith attempt to meet
and confer with the Plaintiff but was unable to do so because counsel for
Plaintiff did not respond to his request. 
            On August 14, 2023, Plascencia filed
a Demurrer without a Motion to Strike.
            On October 5, 2023, Plaintiff filed
an opposition. 
            On October 11, 2023, Plascencia
filed a reply.
 
DISCUSSION
APPLICABLE
LAW
When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context,
and “treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded, but
not contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Serrano v.
Priest (1971) 5 Cal.3d 584, 591.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and
not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. The only
issue involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  It is error “to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if the
plaintiff shows there is a reasonable possibility any defect identified by the
defendant can be cured by amendment.”  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th
962, 967.)
 
APPLICATION
TO FACTS
Plascencia’s
Demurrer
Plascencia demurs to the 1st
cause of action for Race/National Origin Harassment in Violation of FEHA and
the 6th cause of action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.

 
1st
cause of action for Race/National Origin Harassment in
Violation of FEHA 
Plascencia argues that Plaintiff fails to
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action for race/national origin
harassment in violation of FEHA as matter of law because Plascencia cannot be
held individually liable for personnel management decisions.  Additionally, Plascencia argues Plaintiff has
failed to state any claims of harassment.   
Government Code § 129400 (1) prohibits
harassment of an employee “because of race, religious creed, color, national
origin, ancestry, physical disability, mental disability, medical condition,
genetic information, marital status, sex, gender, gender identity, gender
expression, age, sexual orientation, or military and veteran status.” (Gov.
Code § 129400 (1).)  To establish a prima
facie case of a racially hostile work environment under FEHA, Plaintiff is
required to show that (1) he was a member of a protected class; (2) he was
subjected to unwelcome racial harassment; (3) the harassment was based on race;
(4) the harassment unreasonably interfered with his work performance by
creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive work environment, and (5) the
defendant is liable for harassment.  (Thompson
v. City of Monrovia (2010) 186 Cal. App. 860, 876.)
Plaintiff alleges Plascencia, acting in a
supervisory capacity towards Plaintiff, had propensity to discriminate, harass,
retaliate, and violate public policy.   Here are the totality of allegations
Plaintiff made about Plascencia’s harassment: 
·       Plaintiff alleges
that he was subjected to harassment due to his race/national origin of being
Armenian because he was being overly scrutinized and reprimanded more harshly
than others.  (Compl., ¶ 21.) 
 
·       Plaintiff also
realized that Plascencia had propensity to discriminate, harass, retaliate, and
violate public policy upon hearing that multiple employees had reported
Plascencia for harassment, including a female employee who quit shortly before
Plaintiff joined Phillips 66.  (Compl., ¶
22.)  
 
·       Plaintiff alleges
most of his non-Hispanic counterparts, namely young Caucasian men, received
favorable overtime and work opportunities whereas Plaintiff did not even though
he had the credentials and experience. 
(Compl., ¶ 23.)  
 
·       Around March 2020,
Plaintiff sent multiple emails to Plascencia requesting Personal Protective
Equipment.  (Compl., ¶ 27.)  Plascencia ignored these emails and when
Plaintiff followed-up with Plascencia in-person about his requests, Plascencia
denied his request, telling him “No. We don’t do it like that here.”  (Ibid.)   
 
·       Plascencia
required Plaintiff and his minority counterpart, Darrell, to work alone in
severe unsafe and unhealthy working conditions, whereas Philips 66 had a policy
implemented where employees were required to work with several assistants under
the supervision of an experienced Operator when handling major equipment for
the first three years of his employment. 
(Compl. ¶ 30) Plaintiff reported Plascencia to a Union
Health and Safety Representative and Plaintiff told Plascencia he refused to
work without supervision and assistance. 

 
·       Plaintiff was
subjected to hostile work environment and alleges an occasion where Plascencia
offered Plaintiff’s non-Hispanic counterparts ice cream and space to eat lunch
in air-conditioned RV, but when Plaintiff requested his meal periods, he was
told “Go take your fucking lunch then!” 
(Compl., ¶¶ 32, 51d.)  
 
·       Although Plaintiff
took several tasks on his own, he received a poor performance review by
Plascencia.  (Compl. ¶ 33.) The employee
that handed Plaintiff his review told him Plascencia chose the grading and he
disagreed with the grading.  (Ibid.)  When Plaintiff requested a copy of his
review, Plaintiff was told Phillips 66 “does not provide copies”.  (Ibid.) 
A few weeks later, Plaintiff was presented with the same review but with
the date changed.  (Compl. ¶ 34.)  When Plaintiff inquired about the change, he
was told that his earlier was “lost” and he needed to sign the review.  (Compl. ¶ 34.)  Plaintiff was terminated a week later, sited
on two separate performance reviews. 
(Compl. ¶ 35.)  Plaintiff realized
Phillips 66 and its relevant supervisors lied to him about the “lost” review
and tricked him into signing the second review in order for Defendants to use
it as an excuse to terminate Plaintiff. 
(Compl. ¶ 35.) 
 
·       Plascencia offered
multiple overtime opportunities to Plaintiff’s white counterpart who was
notoriously late, while Plaintiff’s co-workers expressed they believed
Plaintiff deserved these overtime opportunities.  (Compl., ¶ 51f.)  
 
The alleged facts stated above are insufficient
to state a cause of action for hostile work environment under FEHA against
Placencia because supervisors cannot be held individually liable for their
personnel actions.  (Jankin v. GM
Hughes Electronics, (1996) 46 Cal.App.4th, 55, 65.)  “[T]he Legislature intended that commonly
necessary personnel management actions such as hiring and firing, job or
project management, office or work station assignments, promotion and demotion,
performance evaluations, the assignment or non-assignment of supervisory
functions…. deciding who will be laid off…do not come within the meaning of
harassment.”  (Ibid.)  Here, while Plascencia invited non-Hispanic
employees to eat ice-cream in an air-conditioned RV and required Plaintiff and
a minority counterpart to work in severe unsafe work conditions without
supervision, such personnel management actions by Placencia do not come within
the meaning of harassment.  Although
Placencia’s actions may retrospectively be found discriminatory if based
on improper motives, the remedies provided by the FEHA are those for discrimination,
not harassment.  “Harassment, by
contrast, consists of actions outside the scope of duties which are not of a
type necessary to business and personnel management.  This significant distinction underlies the
differential treatment of harassment and discrimination in the FEHA.”  (Ibid.)
Therefore, Plascencia’s demurrer to the 1st
cause of action for Race/National Origin Harassment in Violation of FEHA is
SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
6th
cause of action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (“IIED”)
            Plascencia contends that this cause
of action is not pled with specificity.  
            A cause of
action for IIED requires proof of: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by
defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff suffered severe
emotional distress; and (3) the defendant’s extreme and outrageous conduct was
he actual and proximate cause of the severe emotional distress.  (Crouch v. Trinity Christian Center of
Santa Ana, Inc. (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 995, 1007.)  Personnel management decisions, even
motivated by wrongful intent, are not outrageous conduct as to individual
supervisors who discriminate.  (Janken,
supra, at p. 80.)
            The
complaint alleges Defendants conduct was so extreme and outrageous that it
caused Plaintiff to suffer severe emotion distress.  (Compl. ¶¶ 306-311.)  As a result of Defendants’ conduct, Plaintiff
was rendered sick, sore, lame, disabled and/or disordered and suffered shock,
pain, discomfort, and anxiety.  (Compl.
¶¶ 312.)  These alleged facts are
insufficient to state a cause of action for IIED because they are too
conclusory.  Additionally, as stated
above, Plascencia’s personnel management activities are insufficient to support
a claim of IIED, even if improper motivation is alleged.  Further, a remedy for personnel decisions
that are improperly motivated is suing the employer for discrimination.  (Janken, supra, at p. 80.)
            For these
reasons, the demurrer to the 6th cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
CONCLUSION
Plascencia’s
demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH 30 DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
            If counsel do not submit on the tentative,
they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person
due to the COVID-19 pandemic.