  Case Number:  22STCV06583    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



CHRISTOPHER RASCON 
                           
         vs.
 
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES 
 


 Case No.: 
  22STCV06583 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 2, 2024
 



 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further is DENIED. Accordingly, the Court declines to award
sanctions at this time.
 
            On
2/23/2022, Plaintiff Christopher Rascon (Plaintiff) filed suit against the
County of Los Angeles, alleging: (1) racial discrimination; (2) racial
harassment; (3) age discrimination; (4) age harassment; (5) retaliation; (6)
failure to prevent.  
 
            On
5/30/2024, Plaintiff moved to compel further responses to Special
Interrogatories (Set Two). 
 
Discussion 
 
 
            Plaintiff
seeks to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories (Set two) on the
grounds that Defendant improperly objected to each of the requests. In
particular:
 
[A]t issue
are two interrogatory responses which unilaterally limit the scope of the
information sought in two drastic ways: First, Defendants limit the scope by
providing seven years of information instead of ten years, with no explanation
as to why the extra three years are more harassing or irrelevant. Second,
defendant improperly qualifies its responses to include the word permanent in
their answer where the request does not mention such qualification—there has
been no mention as to why this qualification was used in its responses,
especially as most responsive positions would not be "permanent"
positions such that this is a patent attempt to avoid relevant discovery
through inappropriate sophistry, or why it would be particularly irrelevant or
harassing to respond without said qualification.
 
            (Motion,
4: 5-14.) 
 
            After
review, the Court finds no good cause to compel further responses. 
 
            First,
in opposition, Defendant sets forth considerable evidence to show the
inadequate meet and confer efforts from Plaintiff. As such, the Court finds a
failure to attempt a good faith informal resolution of this issue. 
 
            Second,
the Court finds the temporal limitation of 2017-2023 to be reasonable. While
Plaintiff has served in the Los Angeles County Fire Department for more than 20
years, what is relevant here is the time period when Plaintiff allegedly was
prevented from obtaining a 40-hour per week position. Notably, the earliest
date Plaintiff alleges he was prevented from obtaining a 40-hour per week
position is 2021 or later. (See FAC ¶¶ 24 [“In 2021, Rascon applied for a
training Captain position again with Captain Ramon Valdoria and Valdoria once
again advised Rascon that his issues getting in was probably due to the
previous problems he has had with Chapman.”]; 25-31 [alleging subsequent
conduct after 2021 which led to Rascon making complaints and, in turn, to the
Department retaliating against Rascon by preventing him from getting a 40-hour
per week position].)
 
            Accordingly,
the Court finds that 2017, as opposed to 2013, constitutes a reasonable
temporal limitation. 
 
            Third,
Plaintiff contends that the County improperly objected to the term “position”
as vague and ambiguous. However, as explained by Defendant in opposition:
 
However, as
Plaintiff knows, “position” generally refers to permanent positions that are
subject to the County’s merit classification system. Within the Department
there are also detail assignments which are temporary in nature. Further, a
fire fighter who has a disability or medical condition may be placed
temporarily on a limited duty assignment. The interrogatory as drafted is
ambiguous as to the scope of the request.
 
As County’s
counsel informed Plaintiff, the County does not maintain its records to
determine if Battalion Chiefs (BCs) for the last 10 years served in a 40-hour
position, or not. Therefore, to obtain this information would be extremely time
consuming and burdensome without the requisite showing of relevance. County’s
use of the “permanent” in the response clarifies the parameter of the response
as the County understands the question.
 
            (Opp.,
6:22-7: 5.)
 
            As
such, the Court accepts Defendant’s explanation that the “permanent” qualifier
is intended to clarify that the response refers only to individuals who were
permanently assigned to a 40-hour position, rather than individuals who may
have been on a limited duty assignment due to various accommodations. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further is denied. Accordingly,
the Court declines to award sanctions at this time. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 