  Case Number:  21STCV31632    Hearing Date:   June 7, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE
NAME:  Nicholas
Muso, et al. v. Sevadham Management, LP, et al. 
Plaintiffs’
Motion to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, Form Interrogatories,
Set One, and Request for Production of Documents, Set One 
TENTATIVE
RULING 
The Court GRANTS
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel responses to Request for Production of Documents,
Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One and Form Interrogatories, Set One and
orders Sevadham to provide verified, code-compliant responses, without
objections, and produce all responsive documents, to Plaintiffs’ Request for
Production of Documents, Set One, within 30 days of the Court’s order. 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within
five calendar days of this order. 
BACKGROUND 
This is an elder abuse and wrongful death action. On August 26,
2021, plaintiff Patricia Muso, individually and as representative of decedent Nicholas
Muso (collectively, Plaintiffs), filed this action against defendants Sevadham Management,
LP dba Mountain View Centers Claremont Memory Care (Sevadham), Does 1 through
25, plus Nicholas Anthony Muso and Kathryn Muso as nominal defendants, alleging
causes of action for dependent adult abuse and neglect, violation of patient
rights, negligence, and wrongful death. 
On April 26, 2024, Plaintiffs moved to compel responses to Special
Interrogatories, Set One, Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for
Production of Documents, Set One. The motion is unopposed. The hearing was
continued to June 7, 2024. The motion is still unopposed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
When a party fails to serve a timely response
to interrogatories, the party propounding the interrogatories may move for an
order compelling a response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) A party
who fails to provide a timely response waives any objection, including one
based on privilege or work product. (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) “The
court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney
who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to
interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust.” (Id., § 2030.290, subd. (c).) 
When a party fails to serve a timely response
to an inspection demand, the party making the demand may move for an order
compelling a response to the inspection demand. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,
subd. (b).) A party who fails to provide a timely response waives any
objection, including one based on privilege or work product. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.300, subd. (a).) “[T]he court shall impose a monetary sanction… against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a response to a demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.” (Id., § 2031.300, subd. (c).) 
DISCUSSION 
Meet and Confer 
Although meeting and conferring is not required before bringing
motions to compel, (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific
Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 404), the Court
appreciates Plaintiffs’ efforts to meet and confer with Sevadham before
bringing this motion. (Oghassabian Decls., ¶¶ 5-9; see Dept. 6 Courtroom
Information [“Parties are required to meet and confer prior to filing any
motion.”]) 
            Analysis 
Plaintiffs
indicate they served Special Interrogatories, Set One, Form Interrogatories,
Set One, and Request for Production of Documents, Set One, on Sevadham on June
13, 2023. (Oghassabian Decls., ¶¶ 2-3, Exs. A, B.) Sevadham has not responded
to the requests, despite Plaintiffs’ meet-and-confer efforts. (Oghassabian
Decl., ¶¶ 4-9, Exs. C, D, E.) The Court finds Plaintiffs’ motions to be well
taken. Accordingly, the Court GRANTS Plaintiffs’ motions to compel responses to Request for
Production of Documents, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One and Form
Interrogatories, Set One and orders Sevadham to provide verified,
code-compliant responses, without objections, and produce all responsive
documents, to Plaintiffs’ Request for Production of Documents, Set One, within
30 days of the Court’s order. 
CONCLUSION 
The Court GRANTS
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel responses to Request for Production of Documents,
Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One and Form Interrogatories, Set One and
orders Sevadham to provide verified, code-compliant responses, without
objections, and produce all responsive documents, to Plaintiffs’ Request for
Production of Documents, Set One, within 30 days of the Court’s order. 
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within
five calendar days of this order.