 Case Number:  20SMCV01254    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff Eidan Gamaty’s Motion for an Order Permitting Pretrial Discovery of Defendants’ Financial Condition Pursuant to Civil Code §3295(c) is DENIED.Plaintiff Eidan Gamaty to give notice. REASONINGPlaintiff Eidan Gamaty (“Plaintiff”) moves the Court for an order permitting pretrial financial discovery of the conditions of Defendants James Bekhor and James S. Bekhor Insurance Services, Inc. (“Defendants”) on the ground that a substantial probability exists that Plaintiff will prevail on his claims for punitive damages against these defendants.Civil Code section 3295, subdivision (c), provides that no pretrial discovery by a plaintiff into the financial condition of the defendant shall be permitted unless the Court enters an order permitting such discovery. “Upon motion by the plaintiff supported by appropriate affidavits and after a hearing, if the court deems a hearing to be necessary, the court may at any time enter an order permitting the discovery otherwise prohibited by this subdivision if the court finds, on the basis of the supporting and opposing affidavits presented, that the plaintiff has established that there is a substantial probability that the plaintiff will prevail” on a claim for punitive damages. (Ibid.)“[B]efore a court may enter an order permitting discovery of a defendant’s financial condition, it must (1) weigh the evidence submitted in favor of and in opposition to motion for discovery, and (2) make a finding that it is very likely the plaintiff will prevail on his claim for punitive damages.” (Jabro v. Superior Court (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 754, 758.) “In this context, . . . the words ‘substantial probability’” are interpreted “to mean ‘very likely’ or ‘a strong likelihood’ just as their plain meaning suggests.” (Ibid.) It is not sufficient for a plaintiff to merely make a prima facie showing such as would avoid summary judgment. (Id. at p. 759.)Punitive damages may be recovered upon a proper showing of malice, fraud, or oppression. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “Malice” is defined as conduct intended to cause injury to a person or despicable conduct carried on with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights or safety of others. (Turman v. Turning Point of Cent. Cal., Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63.) “Oppression” means despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship, in conscious disregard of the person’s rights. (Ibid.) “Fraud” is an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known by defendant, with intent to deprive a person of property, rights or otherwise cause injury. (Ibid.) Conclusory allegations, devoid of any factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted with oppression, fraud, or malice. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1033, 1042.)Here, Plaintiff’s claims for intentional misrepresentation, wrongful termination, voidable transfer and constructive trust, and conversion include prayers for punitive damages against Defendants. (See Second Am. Compl. ¶¶ 44, 68, 88, 104.) Plaintiff contends that Defendants committed fraud by representing to him that with his continued hard work that he would be paid his salary, while never having the intention to do so, and Defendant James Bekhor convinced Plaintiff to provide $115,000 towards the purchase of a company by the name of Enterprise Insurance Group, LLC, representing that Plaintiff would receive a 20% interest in the company with other brokerages, but he never intended to do so. In support of the motion, Plaintiff provides his own declaration testifying to these facts, as well as Defendant James Bekhor’s deposition testimony stating that Plaintiff was not on a salary, and when presented with text message to the contrary, stating that this was a misunderstanding. (Mot., Shem-Tov Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. D, James Bekhor Dep. 50:22-51:13.) Plaintiff argues this constitutes an admission that Defendant James Bekhor represented he would pay Plaintiff a salary, leading Plaintiff to believe this, but he had no intention of paying a salary. Plaintiff also provides text message communication with Defendant James Bekhor telling Plaintiff he would get 20% equity in the subject company, but James testified that the money provided to purchase the company was only an interest free loan. (Mot., Gamaty Decl. ¶ 11, Ex. A; Shem-Tov Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. D, James Bekhor Dep. 174:15, 176:2-4.)Put simply, Plaintiff has not established a substantial probability that he will prevail on his claims for punitive damages. While claims of fraud could support an award for punitive damages, Plaintiff has not shown a strong likelihood of obtaining such an award under the facts alleged in the Second Amended Complaint and the evidence provided with the motion. The evidence shows only that Plaintiff understood he would receive a salary, but he did not receive one, and he provided funds to Defendants with the understanding that he would receive a 20% interest, but Defendants merely intended the funds to be an interest-free loan. While there may be a triable issue of fact as to whether Defendants’ conduct constituted fraud, Plaintiff is required to show more than a triable issue; he must demonstrate a “substantial probability” that he will prevail on his claims, and he can make no such showing where the evidence presented to the Court simply establishes a dispute and differing interpretations.The Court also notes that Civil Code section 3295, subdivision (c), provides that despite the rule generally prohibiting pretrial discovery into a defendant’s financial status, “the plaintiff may subpoena documents or witnesses to be available at the trial for the purpose of establishing” the defendant’s financial condition, “and the defendant may be required to identify documents in the defendant’s possession which are relevant and admissible for that purpose and the witnesses employed by or related to the defendant who would be most competent to testify to those facts.” Thus, Plaintiff is not without recourse should he prevail on his punitive damages claims at trial.Accordingly, Plaintiff Eidan Gamaty’s Motion for an Order Permitting Pretrial Discovery of Defendants’ Financial Condition Pursuant to Civil Code §3295(c) is DENIED.