 Case Number:  23SMCV00505    Hearing Date:   January 19, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGPlaintiff American Commercial Equities Two, LLC’s Motion for Summary Adjudication of Issues on Plaintiff’s Complaint is GRANTED as to the first and second causes of action.Plaintiff American Commercial Equities Two, LLC to give notice. REASONINGPlaintiff American Commercial Equities Two, LLC (“Plaintiff”) moves for summary adjudication of its first cause of action for breach of lease against Defendant Reed Capital Group, LLC and second cause of action for breach of guaranty against Defendant Gary Reed Enterprises, Inc. Defendants Reed Capital Group, LLC and Gary Reed Enterprises, Inc. (“Defendants”) oppose the motion and argue there are triable issues as to these claims. The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) “On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)“Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “[T]he court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection) . . . in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)First Cause of Action: Breach of LeaseTo state a cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)Plaintiff presents undisputed evidence that it owns the property at 510 Wilshire Boulevard in Santa Monica, Plaintiff and Defendant Reed Capital Group, LLC entered into a written lease for the premises in May 2013, the parties entered into a First Amendment to the lease in April 2015 and a Second Amendment to the lease in June 2018, Defendant began to fall behind in its payment of rent in April 2020, Plaintiff filed an action for unlawful detainer against Defendant on May 20, 2022 based on failure to pay rent, the parties executed a Stipulation for Entry of Judgment on June 27, 2022, Defendant agreed to pay a certain amount and vacate the premises, the balance owed for the period of April 1, 2022 through April 30, 2022 is $162,978.76, Plaintiff was unable to re-lease the premises before June 19, 2023 when the lease expired, rent came due in the amount of $93,029.58 for that period, no payments were made other than a $997.51 credit, and Defendant owes a total of $243,176.83, and the agreement allows for recovery of attorney fees. (Pl.’s UMF Nos. 1, 2, 8-26, 28.) The lease included a force majeure clause stating as follows:45.7. Force Majeure. The occurrence of any of the following events shall excuse performance of such obligations of Landlord or Tenant as are rendered impossible or reasonable impracticable to perform while such event continues: . . . acts of God; . . . governmental restrictions, regulations or controls; judicial orders . . . and other causes beyond the reasonable control of the party obligated to perform ( financial inability to perform excepted). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the occurrence of such events shall not excuse Tenant’s obligations to pay Minimum Monthly Rent and additional rent . . . or excuse such obligations as this Lease may nevertheless impose on the party to obey, remedy or avoid, despite such event.(Pl.’s UMF No. 6.)Defendant argues summary adjudication should be denied because there are triable issues as to whether Plaintiff performed its obligations under the contract because Defendant was forced to cease operations at the property due to the COVID-19 pandemic orders, there were safety concerns at the property due to homeless camps set up outside the store, and Defendant offered hardship offer proposals, but Plaintiff refused. Notably, Defendant’s contractual obligation was to pay Plaintiff rent, and “[n]othing about the pandemic or resulting closure orders” made Defendant’s “performance of its obligation to [Plaintiff]—paying rent—impossible.” (SVAP III Poway Crossings, LLC v. Fitness International, LLC, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 893; see also Fitness International, LLC v. KB Salt Lake III, LLC (2023) 95 Cal.App.5th 1032, 1502 [party was not prevented from paying rent because of the COVID-19 pandemic where it conceded it had the funds to pay rent].) Even assuming the pandemic qualified as a force majeure event, Defendant must show that its performance was rendered extremely difficult, expensive, or would involve loss (West Pueblo Partners, LLC v. Stone Brewing Co., LLC (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1179, 1188) due to the pandemic, and there is no evidence so indicating. As to the existence of homeless camps, there is no provision in the contract which would excuse payment of rent due to a lack of safety, and Defendant points to no provision requiring that Plaintiff remove these camps. Further, Plaintiff had no obligation to accept any hardship proposals from Defendant.Defendant fails to create a triable issue of material fact as to Plaintiff’s claim for breach of lease. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED as to Plaintiff’s first cause of action.Second Cause of Action: Breach of GuarantyThe elements of cause of action for breach of guaranty are “1) there is a valid guaranty, 2) the borrower has defaulted, and 3) the guarantor failed to perform under the guaranty.” (Gray1 CPB, LLC v. Kolokotronis (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th 480, 486.)Plaintiff provides the same evidence stated above, plus additional evidence that Defendant Gary Reed Enterprises, Inc. executed a written guaranty of lease for the premises concurrent with Defendant Reed Capital Group, LLC’s execution of the lease, Defendant guaranteed the full performance of the lease obligations, the obligations under the guaranty were separate from the obligations under the lease, Defendant failed to make any payments due as rental obligations, Defendant’s liability was not covered by the unlawful detainer action, Defendant owes $268,176.83 under the guaranty, and the lease and guaranty allow for recovery of attorney fees. (Pl.’s UMF Nos. 30-35, 39, 42, 46, 48.) Defendant asserts the same arguments rejected above, and again Defendant fails to point to any provision of the guaranty which would excuse payment of the rental obligations due to the COVID-19 pandemic, safety issues, or refusal to accept hardship proposals.Defendant fails to create a triable issue of material fact as to Plaintiff’s claim for breach of guaranty. Accordingly, Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED as to Plaintiff’s second cause of action.