  Case Number:  22VECV01643    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  W FARZANEH
TABIBIAn v. PROVIDENCE CEDARS-SINAI TARZANA MEDICAL CENTER, et al.
 
demurrer to the
first amended complaint
 
Date of Hearing:        June 17, 2024                                    Trial
Date:       None
set. 
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        22VECV01643
 
Moving Party:            Defendant
McCarthy Building Companies, Inc.  
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Farzaneh Tabibian  
Meet and Confer:      Yes
(Grossi Decl. ¶¶2-3.) 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 18, 2022, Plaintiff Farzaneh
Tabibian filed a complaint against Defendant Providence Cedars-Sinai Tarzana
Medical Center and Tarzana Medical Center for negligence-premises liability.
Plaintiff alleges on August 2, 2023, Plaintiff was at the Providence
Cedars-Sinai Tarzana walking on a pathway that was under construction when she
slipped and violently fell due the unmaintained, hazardous condition of the
floor, including loose gravel. As a result of the incident, Plaintiff alleges
she experienced immediate excruciating pain and discomfort. This violent impact
caused an acute fracture on the fifth metatarsal. Plaintiff filed a First
Amended Complaint on April 3, 2024, adding a cause of action for negligent
hiring. 
 
On June 29, 2023, Plaintiff named
McCarthy Building Companies, Inc. as Doe 1. On July 21, 2023, Plaintiff
dismissed the Providence Cedars-Sinai Tarzana Medical Center and Tarzana
Medical Center defendants. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendant’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint is
OVERRULED. 
 
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant McCarthy
Building Companies, Inc. requests this court take judicial notice of
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint served on April 3, 2024 (RJN, Exh. A.) The
court GRANTS Defendant’s request for judicial notice.  
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant McCarthy Building Companies, Inc. demurs to the to the
complaint of Plaintiff Farzaneh Tabibian on the grounds the first cause of
action for negligence-premises liability and second cause of action for
negligent hiring fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action against Defendant and is uncertain, ambiguous and unintelligible. 
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a
cause of action.¿ (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)¿When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context.¿ (Wilson
v. Transit Authority of City of Sacramento (1962) 199 Cal.App.2d 716,
720-21.)¿In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of
the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not
on the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc.
Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the
truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.)
The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it
stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
Before filing a demurrer, demurring party is also required to meet and confer
with the party who filed the pleading demurred to for the purposes of
determining whether an agreement can be reached through a filing of an amended
pleading that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer. (See CCP
§ 430.41.) 
 
Premises Liability
 
Defendant demurs to the first cause of action for premises
liability on the grounds the complaint does not sufficiently allege “duty”,
“breach of duty” or causation. 
 
To establish premises liability, plaintiff must prove that the
defendant breached a duty of care owed to the plaintiff that proximately caused
injury and damages. “Those who own, possess, or control property generally have
a duty to exercise ordinary care in managing the property in order to avoid
exposing others to an unreasonable risk of harm.” (Annocki v. Peterson
Enterprises, LLC (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 37.)  
 
Defendant argues Plaintiff alleges McCarthy was contracted to
perform construction on the subject premises but fails to allege any other
facts supporting the contention that McCarthy controlled the premises.
Moreover, Plaintiff alleges no facts as to the specific location where the
subject incident occurred and therefore, it is unclear who, if anyone, was
working in that area, who owned it and who controlled it. As for causation,
Defendant argues Plaintiff fails to allege facts that McCarthy’s conduct caused
Plaintiff’s condition. Merely alleging McCarthy was performing construction at
the subject does not sufficiently allege McCarthy’s conduct was a substantial
factor in causing Plaintiff’s injuries as there were other contractors onsite. 
 
The court finds the allegations sufficient for a demurrer. The
complaint alleges Defendant possessed, constructed, maintained, operated,
inspected, performed, and planned construction work at the property and
Defendant failed to coordinate and control the work being performed on said job
site in a safe and proper manner, thereby creating a dangerous condition. This
is sufficient to show duty and breach of duty. Moreover, Plaintiff’s
allegations that Defendant’s negligence caused Plaintiff to fall and injure
themselves is sufficient. Any ambiguities can be clarified under the discovery
process. 
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action is
OVERRULED.  
 
Negligent Hiring 
 
Defendant demurs to the second cause of action for negligent
hiring on the grounds Plaintiff fails to allege facts sufficient to constitute
a claim for negligent hiring. 
 
Under California law, an employer may be liable to a third person
for negligently training, hiring, supervising, or retaining an unfit employee,
but only when the employer knows, or has reason to know, that an employee
presents a particular risk and the harm posed by that risk materializes. 
(Doe v. Capital Cities (1996) 50 Cal. App. 4th 1038, 1042.)
However, liability for negligent hiring and supervision “is based upon the
reasoning that if an enterprise hires individuals with characteristics which
might pose a danger to customers or other employees, the enterprise should bear
the loss caused by the wrongdoing of its incompetent or unfit employees.”
(Mendoza v. City of Los Angeles (1998) 66 Cal.App.4th 1333, 1339–1340 [78
Cal.Rptr.2d 525].) This tort applies “in factual settings where the plaintiff’s
injury occurred in the workplace, or the contact between the plaintiff and the
employee was generated by the employment relationship.” (Ibid.) 
 
Defendant argues the complaint assumes Defendant hired
subcontractors without providing sufficient facts, fails to identify the
subcontractors and employees at issue, fails to allege facts that the
subcontractors and employees were incompetent or unfit, fails to allege
Defendant knew or should have known that the subcontractors or employees were
unfit and fails to allege that Defendant’s hiring was a substantial factor in
causing Plaintiff’s harm. 
 
The court finds the complaint sufficiently facts to support a
claim against Defendant for negligent hiring. The court finds it sufficient for
plaintiff to allege that defendant knew that its employees or subcontractors
were incompetent to perform their job and that the improper performance of the
job led to an unmaintained and hazardous condition which caused injury to the
plaintiff.  These allegations are
sufficient.  
 
Uncertainty
 
Defendant demurs to the complaint on the grounds it is uncertain
on its face. Specifically, that the allegations fail to apprise Defendant of
the essential facts and allegations against it or adequately defend against all
causes of action asserted. 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10(f) provides that a pleading
is uncertain if it is ambiguous and unintelligible. (See CCP § 430.10(f).) “A
demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is so bad
that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., he or she cannot
reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or
claims are directed against him or her.” (Weil & Brown, Civil Procedure
Before Trial (The Rutter Group) § 7:85 (emphasis in original).) 
 
Although the court finds the second cause of action fails to
allege facts sufficient to state a claim against Defendant, the overall
complaint is not so uncertain. Defendant could reasonably determine what issues
must be admitted or denied and what claims are directed at them. Accordingly,
the demurrer is OVERRULED on this basis. 
 
 