 Case Number:  23LBCV01318    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  S27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIAFOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - SOUTH DISTRICTJESSE SILK, Plaintiff(s), vs. BEACH CITIES MANAGEMENT, ET AL., Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) CASE NO: 23LBCV01318 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER Dept. S27 8:30 a.m. October 15, 2024Moving Party: Defendant, Beach Cities ManagementOpposing Party: Plaintiff, Jesse SilkNotice: OK1. Background FactsPlaintiff, Jesse Silk filed this action against Defendants, Beach Cities Management, Consennys Property Management, Gavin K. McCann, Pina McCann, Pacific Coast Management, Inc., Daniel Plumbing & Son, Inc., Cecilia Chow, and Does 1 through 110 for damages arising out of a leak in Plaintiff’s rented condominium unit. Plaintiff was renting the unit from its owners, Pina and Gavin McCann. Beach Cities Management was hired by the McCanns to manage the unit. The other defendants include the upstairs unit owner, the HOA, and the persons/entities who performed work in connection with the leak.Plaintiff’s operative complaint is his original complaint, which he filed on 7/13/23. It includes causes of action for breach of the implied warranty of habitability, breach of the implied covenant of quietenjoyment, fraud, nuisance, premises liability, negligence, breach of contract, retaliatory eviction, wrongful eviction, IIED, constructive eviction, and negligence per se.2. Motion for Protective Ordera. Parties’ PositionsDefendant moves for a protective order precluding the deposition of its CEO, Dustin Edwards. Defendant contends this is a classic “apex deposition,” and Plaintiff has not shown Edwards has unique and superior knowledge of the facts, which discovery cannot be obtained by less intrusive means.Plaintiff opposes the motion, contending the evidence in the case shows that Edwards has unique and personal knowledge of the facts of the case, which cannot be obtained by less intrusive means. He contends Beach Cities is not a massive corporate entity like Liberty Mutual, and the doctrine does not apply.Defendant, in reply, contends Beach Cities is a large corporate entity, and Edwards has no day-to-day involvement in handling the units managed. It contends Plaintiff failed to meet his burden to show his deposition is necessary under Liberty Mutual.b. Law Governing Apex DepositionsThe seminal case concerning apex depositions is Liberty Mutual Ins. Co. v. Superior Court, (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1282. In that case, the plaintiff had suffered personal injuries on the job. Liberty Mutual was the workers’ compensation carrier. The plaintiff was suing Liberty Mutual for fraud and IIED concerning the claims handling process. The plaintiff sought to depose the CEO of Liberty Mutual and cited, as a reason, the fact that the CEO had been CC’d on correspondence. The trial court denied a motion for a protective order, and the Court of Appeals reversed. It held that a deposition of the CEO wasnot appropriate unless the plaintiff showed the CEO had unique and superior knowledge of the facts, and the discovery could not be obtained by less intrusive means. It held that the “head of a large national corporation will generally not have knowledge of a specific incident or case handled several levels down the corporate pyramid.”c. AnalysisPlaintiff argues Liberty Mutual does not apply because Beach Cities is a much smaller entity than Liberty Mutual. The Court finds the test remains the same regardless of the size of the entity – the issue is whether the CEO has “unique and superior knowledge” that “cannot be obtained through less intrusive means.”Plaintiff argues Edwards has unique and superior knowledge. Plaintiff cites the deposition testimony of Leslie Keeney and Torres Perez. Keeney testified that maintenance issues of any sort are reported to her, and she reports directly to Edwards. She then testified that she and Edwards work together to come up with procedures if there is something they can do better. She testified she never had conversations with Edwards while the leak was ongoing, but probably brought it up to him after the incident had concluded; she was not sure.Perez works for a maintenance vendor for Beach Cities that provides handyman services. Perez testified that he sent a report to Edwards because “they” asked him to send a written report of what he discovered re: the moisture in Plaintiff’s unit.The Court finds the foregoing is not sufficient to establish unique and superior knowledge. Keeney talked to Edwards after the fact and told him what was happening. Perez emailed a report.There is no showing that Edwards had any involvement in decisions relating to the leak, repair of the leak, or anything material to Plaintiff’s case.The motion for a protective order is granted.3. Motion to Compel DepositionOn 10/02/24, Defendant filed an opposition to Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of Edwards. The opposition papers indicate a hearing date of 10/15/24. The Court does not have a hearing on a motion to compel deposition scheduled today. To the extent there is such motion, the motion is denied, as the motion for a protective order is granted.4. Final NoteThe parties are reminded that there is an OSC re: appointment of a discovery referee on calendar on 10/23/24. This case has a high volume of scheduled discovery motions. If the parties wish to avoid appointment of a referee, they must work together to resolve the outstanding issues. If the motions remain pending at the time of the OSC, the Court will most likely appoint a referee.Defendant is ordered to give notice.Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org. If the department does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar. If a party submits on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party submitting on the tentative. If anyparty does not submit on the tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this matter.DATED: October 15, 2024 _____________________________________MARK C. KIM Judge of the Superior Court