  Case Number:  19LBCV00214    Hearing Date:   October 15, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Motion
for Attorneys’ Fees
a.    
Parties’ Positions
Alcantar and Gascon seek to recover
all attorneys’ fees expended in connection with this action.  They contend the Court, in its final judgment
after court trial, expressly indicated they are entitled to recover their fees,
and therefore they are entitled to recover all amounts sought by way of their
motion.
 
Gene Rotondo, Timothy Moriarty,
James Weiser, and Jerome Chiaro oppose the motion, contending the moving
parties improperly include fees incurred in connection with the federal action
and a prior state action, and all claims that were included in those actions
were ultimately dismissed.  They contend
that, because the moving parties are improperly including those fees, the
motion should be denied in its entirety. 

 
In reply, the moving parties
contend all issues in all proceedings were so intertwined that separating out
the fees would be impossible, and all fees should be awarded.  
 
b.    
Pleadings
The Court has reviewed the
pleadings from each of the parties’ cases to determine whether the fees sought
by the moving parties were incurred “in connection with this action” or
not.  
 
The first pleading was
2:18-cv-08274-R-AS, which was filed in federal court by Alcantar and Gascon
against numerous parties, including the parties opposing this motion.  The pleading was for violation of federal
constitutional rights under 42 USC §1983, but also included state law claims
for interference with prospective economic advantage, trespass to private
property, forcible detainer, conversion, false arrest, false imprisonment,
trespass to chattels, and trespass to business property.  It was filed by attorney Jerry Steering on
12/17/18.  
 
On 4/11/19, the federal court found
the above complaint failed to state a cognizable claim under federal law and
therefore dismissed the case.  
 
Shortly after the federal court
dismissed the above case, Alcantar and Gascon filed 19LBVC00214 against
numerous defendants, including those opposing this motion.  The First Amended Complaint in 19LBCV00214
included causes of action for tortious interference with prospective economic
advantage, trespass to private property, forcible detainer, conversion,
ejectment, trespass to chattels, and trespass to business
property/premises.  The FAC was filed by
attorney Jerry Steering.  
Neither party includes a copy of
the applicable pleadings from the Orange County case.  What is clear is that the opposing parties
filed the Orange County case, and the moving parties filed a cross-complaint.  The cross-complaint contained a cause of
action for civil theft, which carries an attorneys’ fees penalty in the event
the party pursuing the claim prevails on the claim.  The cross-complaint was filed by attorney
Peter Freeman.  
 
Ultimately, the OC case was
consolidated with the Long Beach case, and all proceedings were consolidated
into the lower-numbered case, which was the Long Beach case.  
 
c.     Law
Governing Apportionment of Fees
When a cause of action for which
attorney fees are provided by statute is joined with other causes of action for
which attorney fees are not permitted, attorney fees are only
recoverable on the statutory cause of action. Akins
v. Enterprise Rent-A-Car Co. of San Francisco (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 1127,
1133-1134.   
 
This generally requires the trial
court to apportion the fees so that the losing party is only
required to pay for such fees as were incurred in prosecuting or defending
the statutory action. Bell
v. Vista Unified School Dist. (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 672, 687.
 
However, apportionment is not
required when the claims for relief are so intertwined that it
would be impracticable, if not impossible, to separate the attorney's time into
compensable and noncompensable units.  Akins
v. Enterprise Rent-A-Car Co. of San Francisco, supra, at 1133. 
 
Apportionment of fees in such cases
rests within the trial court's sound discretion; its exercise of discretion is
abused only when its ruling “exceeds the bounds of reason, all of the
circumstances before it being considered.”  Bell
v. Vista Unified School Dist., supra, at 687. 

 
d.     Analysis
The crux of the parties’
disagreement is whether the fees from the federal action and/or the Long Beach
case can be recouped in light of the moving parties’ victory in connection with
the civil theft cause of action from the OC case.  Specifically, the moving parties contend the
Court’s language, making clear that only fees from “this case” will be awarded,
meant the moving parties cannot recover fees dating back to 2010 that relate to
the parties’ dispute; they contend, however, that the fees incurred in connection
with the federal case and Long Beach case are so intertwined with the fees in
the OC case that they must all be recovered. 
The opposing parties, on the other hand, contend the language is clear
and only fees expended pursuing the civil theft claim can be recovered, since
there is no basis for recovery of the other fees.  
 
The Court finds the fees, in this
case, can easily be apportioned such that apportionment is necessary.  Fees incurred by Steering were incurred in
connection with various federal and state law theories, none of which was civil
theft.  It was only when Freeman entered
the dispute that the claim for civil theft was added.  While many of the facts of the two cases were
overlapping, ultimately the moving parties never prevailed on any of the
federal or state claims other than civil theft, and ultimately those pleadings
were not necessary in order to obtain the relief obtained.  Only the civil theft claim carries with it an
attorneys’ fees penalty, and therefore only fees incurred in prosecuting the
civil theft claim can be recovered.  
 
The opposing parties encourage the
Court to refuse to award any fees at all because Steering’s fees were
improperly included with the motion.  The
Court finds that result would be unduly harsh. 
Freeman’s fees can easily be apportioned out of the fee request and
separated from Steering’s fees.  Steering
seeks to recover $98,935 in fees. 
Freeman seeks to recover $199,658 + $9143 + $3567 + $2050 =
$214,418.  The opposing parties do not
contest the amount of fees billed by Freeman, and therefore they are awarded in
full.    
 
e.     Conclusion
The motion for fees is granted in
the reduced amount of $214,418.  The
Court will amend the judgment by interlineation to include the fees.  Moving Parties are ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   
 