 Case Number:  24STCV21549    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
SHARK ATTACK, LLC,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
METCALF HODGES, PS, et
  al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV21549
  Hearing Date:  November 6, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant metcalf’s motion to quash
  service of summons 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On August 23, 2024, Plaintiff Shark
Attack, LLC filed this action against Defendants Metcalf Hodges, PS and Jevon
Jones, asserting claims for (1) accounting malpractice, (2) fraudulent
concealment, (3) breach of fiduciary duty, (4) common count – services
rendered, (5) breach of contract, and (6) breach of contract. The dispute
arises from the following alleged facts. 
            Plaintiff is a record label, and
Defendant Jones is a rapper who entered into an agreement with Plaintiff for
Plaintiff to provide digital marketing services in exchange for $5,000 per
month. Jones never made any payments, although Plaintiff’s QuickBooks
accounting software erroneously marked a payment as accepted in September 2022.

Defendant Metcalf Hodges, the accounting
services company retained by Plaintiff, made the error which led to the
September 2022 payment being marked as accepted. Metcalf denied it had made the
error and deleted the record of its mistake. Plaintiff later discovered that
Metcalf had made similar errors on at least 39 other occasions. Metcalf
admitted that its employee made the errors due to poor training but has refused
to compensate Plaintiff for the resulting damage.
            Plaintiff and Metcalf also had
another agreement whereby Metcalf was to prepare Plaintiff’s 2021 tax returns.
However, Metcalf failed to prepare the tax returns, forcing Plaintiff to retain
another accounting firm and causing the IRS to audit Plaintiff. 
            On October 1, 2024, Metcalf filed
the instant motion to quash service of summons. Plaintiff filed its opposition
on October 23, 2024. Metcalf filed its reply on October 28, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
“Due process permits the exercise of
personal jurisdiction over a nonresident defendant in the following four
situations: (1) where the defendant is domiciled in the forum state when the
lawsuit is commenced; (2) where the defendant is personally served with process
while he or she is physically present in the forum state; (3) where the
defendant consents to jurisdiction; and (4) where the defendant has sufficient ‘minimum
contacts’ with the forum state, such that the exercise of jurisdiction would
not offend ‘traditional notions of fair play and substantial justice.’” (Muckle
v. Superior Court (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 218, 226.) 
A defendant may establish sufficient
minimum contacts with the forum state in one of two ways. For a court to
exercise general jurisdiction, the defendant must have contact with the forum
state that is substantial, continuous, and systematic. (Vons Companies, Inc.
v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 445.) In such a case, the
cause of action need not be related to the defendant’s contact with the forum
state. (Id. at p. 446.) For a court to exercise specific jurisdiction,
the following elements must be met: (1) the defendant has purposefully availed
themselves of forum benefits; (2) the controversy is related to or arises out
of the defendant’s contacts with the forum; and (3) the assertion of personal
jurisdiction would comport with fair play and substantial justice. (Snowney
v. Harrah’s Entertainment, Inc. (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1054, 1062.)
When personal jurisdiction is challenged
by a nonresident defendant, the burden of proof is upon the plaintiff to
demonstrate by a preponderance of the evidence that minimum contacts exist
between the defendant and the forum state to justify imposition of personal
jurisdiction. (Mihlon v. Sup. Ct. (1985) 169 Cal. App. 3d 703, 710.)
Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum state are established, the
court must decide whether the exercise of jurisdiction would comport with fair
play and substantial justice. (Vons, supra, 14 Cal. 4th at p. 447.)
DISCUSSION
I.
General Jurisdiction
            “For a corporation, its domicile,
place of incorporation, and principal place of business within a state
constitute the paradigm bases for establishing general jurisdiction.” (Strasner
v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215,
222.) 
            Metcalf is a corporation formed
under Washington law and operates from a single office in Washington. (Wright
Decl. ¶ 2.) There is no evidence of Metcalf’s continuous and systematic
contacts with California and no dispute that the Court lacks general jurisdiction
over Metcalf. 
II.
Specific Jurisdiction 
            a. Purposeful Availment
            “Purposeful availment of forum
benefits is only satisfied when the defendant purposefully and voluntarily
directs his or her activities toward the forum so that he or she should expect,
by virtue of the benefit he or she receives, to be subject to the court's
jurisdiction based on his or her contacts with the forum.” (Moncrief v.
Clark (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1000, 1006, internal citations omitted.) “[W]ith
respect to interstate contractual obligations, we have emphasized that
parties who ‘reach out beyond one state and create continuing relationships and
obligations with citizens of another state’ are subject to regulation and
sanctions in the other State for the consequences of their activities.” (Burger
King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 473.) 
            Here, Metcalf reached out to
California by contracting with and providing services to Plaintiff, a
California company. (See Wright Decl. ¶ 10, Ex. 2.) The contract, and the
services to be provided thereunder, are at the heart of this lawsuit. By
voluntarily contracting with and providing services to a California resident,
Metcalf “‘purposefully derive[d] benefit’ from [its] interstate activities.” (Burger
King, supra, 471 U.S. at p. 473.) “[T]he Due Process Clause may not readily
be wielded as a territorial shield to avoid interstate obligations that have
been voluntarily assumed.” (Id. at p. 474.)   
Metcalf cites to Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. v. Superior Court (2017) 582 U.S. 255, 257, where the court held that
“[t]he bare fact that BMS contracted with a California distributor [McKesson]
is not enough to establish personal jurisdiction in the State.” However, the
court arrived at this conclusion because BMS’s contract with McKesson was
irrelevant to the claims being asserted. (Id. at pp. 256-57.) By
contrast, the claims in this case arise directly from the contract between
Plaintiff and Metcalf and the services to be provided thereunder. 
Metcalf also cites to Burger King,
which held that a contract with an out-of-state party, “alone,” is insufficient
for minimum contacts. (See Burger King, supra, 471 U.S. at p. 478; see
also Goehring v. Superior Court (1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 894, 907 [“a court
must evaluate the contract terms and the surrounding circumstances to determine
whether the defendant purposefully established minimum contacts within the
forum”].) Here, the mere existence of a contract between Plaintiff and Metcalf
is not the sole basis for minimum contacts. Instead, Metcalf’s contacts with
California are based on Metcalf establishing a relationship with a California
resident by performing accounting services for that resident, and the claims
arise directly from those services. (See Haddad Decl. ¶ 2 [Plaintiff retained
Metcalf to provide bookkeeping and tax preparation, and Metcalf performed such
services and collected fees for doing so”].) This is evidence of Metcalf’s
relationship with and voluntary assumption of obligations toward a California
resident. There is no dispute that the claims arise directly from this
relationship and the associated obligations. Neither Bristol-Myers nor Burger
King precludes jurisdiction under these circumstances. 
            Bristol-Myers is further
distinguishable because the claims in that case “involv[ed] no in-state injury
and no injury to residents of the forum State.” (Bristol-Myers, supra, 582
U.S. at p. 256.) By contrast, Metcalf’s alleged conduct injured Plaintiff, a
California resident. The injuries were sustained in California. (See Goehring,
supra, 62 Cal.App.4th at p. 909 [jurisdiction is justified “where the actor
committed an out-of-state act intending to cause effects in California or
reasonably expecting that effects in California would result”].) Therefore,
Metcalf has sufficiently availed itself of California benefits for purposes of
minimum jurisdiction. 
            b. Fairness
            Metcalf argues that litigating in
California would be unfair because its employees are in Washington, along with
its documents and other evidence. However, “because ‘modern transportation and
communications have made it much less burdensome for a party sued to defend
himself in a State where he engages in economic activity,’ it usually will not
be unfair to subject him to the burdens of litigating in another forum for
disputes relating to such activity.” (Burger King, supra, 471 U.S. at p.
474.) 
Metcalf provides no evidence of the burden
it would face in having to litigate the case in California. Given the
accessibility of remote technology, and the fact that Metcalf chose to contract
with a California resident, the Court does not find that it would be
unreasonable to make Metcalf litigate in California. Furthermore, California
has an interest in adjudicating injuries to its own residents. (See Burger
King, supra, 471 U.S. at p. 473 [“A State generally has a ‘manifest
interest’ in providing its residents with a convenient forum for redressing
injuries inflicted by out-of-state actors”].) 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant Metcalf Hodges, PS’s
motion to quash service of summons is DENIED.