 Case Number:  23STCV28393    Hearing Date:   November 6, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
LOS ANGELES SMSA LIMITED PARTNERSHIP dba
  VERIZON WIRELESS,
                        
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
JESUS GARCIA, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV28393
  Hearing Date:  November 6, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion to strike
  cross-complaint  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On November 20, 2023, Plaintiff Los
Angeles SMSA Limited Partnership (Verizon) filed this action against Defendants
Jesus Garcia, Marlene Garcia, Spectrum Cellular Management LLC, and Michael
Flores. Verizon filed the operative First Amended Complaint on January 23,
2024, adding Defendants Doe 1 (as the personal representative of the Estate of
Jesus Garcia), Majestic Enterprises LP, and Jesmar Properties Inc. The FAC
asserts causes of action for (1) breach of contract, (2) breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, (3) forcible detainer, (4) specific
performance, and (5) declaratory relief. 
            The dispute arises from a lease
entered into in September 1989 between Verizon (lessee) and the predecessor of
Jesus Garcia and Marlene Garcia (lessor) for the operation of a wireless
communications facility (the Facility). Jesus Garcia and Marlene Garcia later
became the lessors through amendments to the lease. In 2010, Jesus Garcia and
Marlene Garcia quitclaimed their interest to Majestic Enterprises LP, which
became the landlord, although Jesus Garcia (and now his estate) and Marlene
Garcia remained liable for breaches of the agreement. Verizon alleges that in
2021, Majestic began improperly restricting Verizon’s access to the premises
and prevented Verizon from fully operating the Facility. In particular,
Verizon’s contractors were prevented from entering the premises to perform
necessary maintenance and modifications. 
            On April 15, 2024, Majestic filed a
cross-complaint against Verizon, with the operative First Amended
Cross-Complaint filed on June 26, 2024. The FACC asserts causes of action for
(1) breach of contract, (2) trespass, and (3) declaratory relief. Majestic
alleges that Verizon encroached onto areas of the premises beyond the scope
permitted by the lease. Majestic further alleges that Verizon breached the
lease by operating equipment that violates the FCC’s guidelines for Radio
Frequency (RF) emissions because Verizon failed to implement the required
warnings or protective measures. 
            On July 30, 2024, Verizon filed the
instant motion to strike certain allegations in the FACC. Majestic filed its
opposition on October 24, 2024. Verizon filed its reply on October 30, 2024.      
LEGAL STANDARD
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face
of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Verizon has complied with the meet and confer requirement.
(See Wells Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Preemption
            a. The FCC Has Preemption
Authority Over RF Emissions Standards
“[T]he telecommunications industry
generally, and RF emissions from cell phones specifically, have long been
regulated by Congress and the Federal Communications Commission.” (Bennett
v. T-Mobile United States, Inc. (C.D.Cal. 2008) 597 F.Supp.2d 1050, 1052.)
“By delegating the task of setting RF-emissions levels to the FCC, Congress
authorized the federal government—and not local governments—to strike the
proper balance between protecting the public from RF-emissions exposure and
promoting a robust telecommunications infrastructure.” (Robbins v. New
Cingular Wireless PCS, LLC (6th Cir. 2017) 854 F.3d 315, 319-320.) Therefore,
“federal law has preempted the field of RF interference regulation.” (Sprint
Spectrum L.P. v. Mills (2d Cir. 2002) 283 F.3d 404, 416.) The
Telecommunications Act (TCA) gives the FCC “‘broad,’ albeit ‘somewhat’ more ‘circumscribed,’
preemption authority.” (Ibid.)
            b. Preemption Does Not Apply
to Private Agreements
“Not all actions by state or local
government entities, however, constitute regulation, for such an entity, like a
private person, may buy and sell or own and manage property in the marketplace.”
(Sprint, supra, 283 F.3d at p. 417.) “A State does not regulate . . .
simply by acting within one of these protected areas.” (Ibid.) “[T]he
language and structure of the TCA implicitly recognize that some governmental
decisions are not regulatory and reveal that Congress meant ‘nothing’ in the
FCA to limit or affect the authority of a governmental entity ‘over decisions’
as to the construction, placement, or modification of personal wireless service
facilities on the basis of RF emissions ‘except’ to the extent that those
decisions constitute ‘regulation.’” (Id. at p. 420, citing 47 U.S.C. §
332(c)(7)(A), (c)(7)(B)(iv).)  
The court in Sprint faced a similar
factual scenario as the present case: “a Sprint construction crew attempted to
begin work on the antenna, the School District barred the crew from access to
the High School. Citing its concerns for the health and safety of the school's
students, the School District took the position that it would not permit Sprint
to install the facility unless Sprint agreed to operate the facility at or
below the RF Emissions levels set out in the Lease Addendum.” (Sprint,
supra, 283 F.3d at p. 410.) Thus, the court addressed the question of “whether
a governmental entity or instrumentality could enforce a contractual provision
dealing with [RF emissions] levels.” (Id. at p. 417.) The court
answered in the affirmative, finding that “[t]here is no state or local statute
or ordinance or guideline with respect to the RF Emissions levels at issue
here. The School District entered into a single lease agreement with respect to
a single building. The District did not purport to punish Sprint for any past
conduct or to impose any condition with respect to any Sprint tower other
than that to be located on the High School.” (Id. at pp. 420-21.) “We
see in this record no basis for an inference that the School District sought to
establish any general municipal policy.” (Id. at p. 421.) 
In particular, the court in Sprint
noted that “a private party . . . has the right to decline to lease the
property except on agreed conditions (assuming those conditions would not
violate law or public policy). Since, so far as we are aware, nothing in the
law requires a communications company to operate at the FCC Guidelines maximum
permissible radiation exposure levels, the private owner could elect not to
grant a communications company a lease for the construction and operation of a
cellular tower unless the company agreed to limit its RF emissions to a lower
level.” (Sprint, supra, 283 F.3d at p. 421.) The court held that the
school district, although a government entity, had the same rights as a private
individual while acting as a proprietor and not a regulator. (Ibid.) 
In other words, a private property owner
has the right to impose contractual conditions regarding RF emissions, even if
those conditions are stricter than FCC guidelines. Federal law does not preempt
private enforcement of a contract pertaining to private property, because that
does not amount to regulation. Accordingly, Majestic, as a private property
owner, is entitled to enforce a private lease with Verizon pertaining to the
use of Majestic’s building. The fact that the alleged breach relates to RF
emissions does not render the cross-complaint preempted. (See Sprint, supra,
283 F.3d at p. 417 [“A State does not regulate . . . simply by acting within
one of these protected areas”].) 
If Majestic could have enforced a lease
with stricter RF requirements than FCC guidelines, Majestic may certainly
enforce a lease that requires compliance with FCC guidelines. Doing so does not
“stand[] as an obstacle to the accomplishment and execution of the full
purposes and objectives of Congress.” (See Arizona v. United States
(2012) 567 U.S. 387, 406.) Whether Verizon actually breached any lease term
requiring compliance with FCC guidelines is a factual issue beyond the purview
of this motion. 
c. Verizon’s Caselaw is Distinguishable
Verizon’s caselaw does not compel a
contrary conclusion. In Robbins, AT&T applied for a public permit to
build a cell tower, which the Planning Commission granted. (Robbins, supra,
854 F.3d at p. 318.) Certain residents opposed the construction, citing
independent research regarding the effects of RF emissions. (Ibid.) The
residents sued AT&T for negligence and nuisance, using their research as
evidence. (Ibid.) The other examples cited by Verizon follow a similar
pattern, i.e., members of the public seeking to impose tort liability
for RF emissions based on their own assessment of safe emissions levels. (See
Mtn. 17:1-18:12.) The courts in those cases found that the plaintiffs attempted
to impose standards that conflicted with the FCC’s standards. (See, e.g.,
Cohen, supra, 46 F.4th at p. 1029 [“the conflict between the FCC's RF
radiation regulations and plaintiffs' state law claims poses a sufficient
obstacle to the full accomplishment of the FCC's objectives”].) 
By contrast, Majestic stipulates to the
FCC’s regulations and does not advocate for a stricter standard in conflict
with the FCC. Furthermore, as discussed above, Majestic seeks to enforce its
private agreement with Verizon concerning the use of Majestic’s own property,
which is distinct from a tort action. A state tort action imposing liability
for RF emissions that comply with FCC regulations would conflict with the FCC
by effectively imposing a stricter statewide standard. The same cannot be said
of a breach of contract action seeking to enforce the terms of a private
agreement. First, parties are free to negotiate or reject private agreements,
thus they are not required to be bound by contractual provisions that are
stricter than FCC guidelines. (See Sprint, supra, 283 F.3d at pp.
417-21.) Furthermore, each agreement pertains only to a single transaction and
does not have the effect of being a statewide policy or regulation. (Ibid.)
None of Verizon’s cited authority suggests that the TCA preempts a breach of
contract claim pertaining to a single private transaction. As in Sprint,
the “single lease agreement with respect to a single building” does not amount
to a “general municipal policy” or regulation. (Ibid.) Therefore,
Majestic’s claims are not preempted.            
II.
Punitive Damages
            “In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud
is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).)
            Majestic’s cross-complaint alleges
that Verizon breached the lease by operating a facility that does not comply
with FCC guidelines. (FACC ¶ 23.) The cross-complaint further alleges that
Verizon committed trespass by installing equipment in areas beyond that
contemplated in the lease. (Id., ¶ 34.) Both of these claims “aris[e]
from contract,” which precludes punitive damages. (See Civ. Code, § 3294(a).) “Punitive
damages are not recoverable in breach of contract actions.” (Purcell v.
Schweitzer (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 969, 976.) 
            Majestic argues that Verizon
allegedly created a dangerous condition and consciously disregarded the safety
of others through its excessive RF emissions. However, the allegations
pertaining to RF emissions relate to the breach of contract, for which punitive
damages are unavailable. There is no independent tort claim for injuries
sustained as a result of RF emissions. The trespass claim arises from Verizon’s
alleged encroachment onto areas beyond the scope of the lease. The level of RF
emissions does not determine whether Verizon trespassed. Furthermore, there are
no aggravating facts demonstrating malice, oppression, or fraud sufficient for
punitive damages. 
III.
Forfeiture of Lease
            Verizon argues that Majestic’s
prayer for forfeiture of the lease is improper because there are no facts
demonstrating Verizon’s material breach. However, “[w]hether a breach is so
material as to constitute cause for the injured party to terminate a contract
is ordinarily a question for the trier of fact.” (NIVO 1 LLC v. Antunez
(2013) 217 Cal.App.4th Supp. 1, 4.) For pleading purposes, Majestic has alleged
that Verizon materially breached the lease by failing to comply with safety
requirements and encroaching onto areas beyond the scope of the lease. 
 
CONCLUSION
            Verizon’s motion to strike is
GRANTED with leave to amend as to punitive damages and DENIED in all other
respects. 