  Case Number:  22STCV37866    Hearing Date:   April 17, 2024    Dept:  52 Cross-Defendant Gohar
Tsilikyan’s Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of First Amended Cross-Complaint
Requests
for Judicial Notice
Cross-complainants Narek Eric Kazarian and
Spectrum Lending, LLC (Spectrum) request judicial notice of 12 documents.  The documents may be subject to judicial
notice under Evidence Code § 452(d), but they are not relevant or necessary to
the court’s analysis.  (See Jordache
Enterprises, Inc. v. Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison (1998) 18 Cal.4th
739, 748, fn. 6; Appel v. Superior Court
(2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 329, 342, fn. 6.)     All requests for judicial notice are denied.
Demurrer
Cross-defendant
Gohar Tsilikyan, trustee of the Gohar Tsilikyan Living Trust Dated May 1, 2018,
demurs to numerous causes of action alleged by cross-complainants Narek Eric
Kazarian and Spectrum Lending, LLC.
Kazarian’s Claims
Tsilikyan demurs
to all causes of action by Kazarian on the basis that he is not the real party
in interest and has not alleged he suffered any damages.  In general, the law
recognizes “separation between an individual and a business entity.”  (Curci Investments, LLC v. Baldwin
(2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 214, 221.)  There
are exceptions, but they typically apply when a third party seeks to hold the
individual liable for the business entity’s obligations.  “[A]n incorporator should be precluded from
ignoring his own deliberately chosen corporate form.”  (In re Marriage of Imperato (1975) 45
Cal.App.3d 432, 439.)  “[A] sole
stockholder is estopped to deny the validity of his own corporation.”  (Id. at p. 439, fn. 9.)
Kazarian does not allege sufficient facts for any cause
of action.  The entire first amended
cross-complaint arises from a $500,000 loan by Spectrum Lending, LLC to
Tsilikyan.  The first amended
cross-complaint alleges, “Cross-Complainant
Spectrum is the lending entity and Cross-Complainant Mr. Kazarian is Spectrum’s
Principal.”  (FACC, p. 2.)  Being the corporation’s principal does not
mean Kazarian can sue as an individual to recover money owed to the limited
liability company. 
2.
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
            Spectrum alleges sufficient facts
for this cause of action.  “Every
contract imposes on each party a duty of good faith and fair dealing in
contract performance and enforcement such that neither party may do anything to
deprive the other party of the benefits of the contract.” (Lueras v. BAC Home Loans Servicing, LP (2013) 221 Cal.App.4th 49,
76.)  “If the allegations” constituting
breach of the implied covenant “do not go beyond the statement of a mere
contract breach and, relying on the same alleged acts, simply seek the same
damages or other relief already claimed in a companion contract cause of
action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim is
actually stated.”  (Careau & Co.
v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1395;
accord Guz v. Bechtel National (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 352.)
            The second cause of action alleges Tsilikyan
“is fraudulently and falsely claiming [he] never received the loan funds” and
“is attempting to void the DOT and Promissory Note.”  (FACC, p. 2.) 
The contract does not expressly prohibit the borrower from claiming he
did not receive the loan.  This
allegation goes beyond the contract’s express terms and interferes with
Spectrum’s ability to receive the benefits of the contract.
3.
“Unjust Enrichment and Restitution”
The
third cause of action fails because unjust enrichment and restitution are not
causes of action.  “California does not
recognize a cause of action for unjust enrichment.”  (Hooked Media Group, Inc. v. Apple Inc.
(2020) 55 Cal.App.5th 323, 336; accord Everett v. Mountains Recreation &
Conservation Authority (2015) 239 Cal.App.4th 541, 553.)  “[R]estitution is a remedy and not a
freestanding cause of action.”  (Reid
v. City of San Diego (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 343, 362.)
4.
“Fraud and Deceit - Intentional Misrepresentation”
            Spectrum alleges sufficient facts
for this cause of action.  Intentional
misrepresentation requires: “(a) misrepresentation; (b) defendant’s knowledge
of the statement’s falsity; (c) intent to defraud (i.e., to induce action in
reliance on the misrepresentation); (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting
damage.”  (Hunter v. Up-Right, Inc.
(1993) 6 Cal.4th 1174, 1184.)  
Spectrum
alleges facts constituting promissory fraud, a form of intentional
misrepresentation.  “The elements of promissory fraud … are: (1)
a promise made regarding a material fact without any intention of performing
it; (2) the existence of the intent not to perform at the time the promise was
made; (3) intent to deceive or induce the promisee to enter into a transaction;
(4) reasonable reliance by the promisee; (5) nonperformance by the party making
the promise; and (6) resulting damage to the promisee.”  (Behnke v. State Farm General Ins. Co.
(2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1443, 1453.) 

The
first amended cross-complaint alleges sufficient facts for each element.  It alleges Tsilikyan falsely promised to
repay a $500,000 loan (FACC, ¶ 32) and “would seek reconveyance of the DOT only
after [he] paid back the loan.” 
(¶32.d.)  It further alleges
Tsilikyan “never intended to pay that loan back” and defaulted on the loan.  (¶ 33.b.) 
It alleges he made false promises “with the intention to … induce
Cross-Complainants to act in reliance” by lending the money.  (¶ 34.) 
The first amended cross-complaint further alleges, “In reliance on these
representations, Cross-Complainants were induced to and did execute the
Promissory Note secured by the DOT and deliver the $500,000 loan funds to Mr.
Tsilikyan.”  (¶ 35.)  Finally, it alleges, “Had Cross-Complainants
known the actual facts, Cross-Complainants would not have taken such action by
lending $500,000.00 to Cross-Complainants, or entering into the Promissory Note
secured by the DOT.”  (Ibid.)  
5.
“Fraud and Deceit - Negligent Misrepresentation”
Cross-complainants
fail to allege sufficient facts for this cause of action.  “To
be actionable, a negligent misrepresentation must ordinarily be as to past or
existing material facts.  ‘[P]redictions
as to future events, or statements as to future action by some third party, are
deemed opinions, and not actionable fraud.’ ” 
(Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2
Cal.App.4th 153, 158.)  There is no cause
of action for a “negligent false promise.” 
(Id. at p. 159.)  The only
allegedly negligent misrepresentations are that Tsilikyan made false
representations that he would comply with the terms of the loan agreement.  (FACC, ¶ 39.) 
Those are, at most, false promises.
6.
“Fraud and Deceit – Promise Made Without Intention to Perform” 
Spectrum alleges sufficient facts for this cause of
action for the same reasons as the fourth cause of action. 
7.
Injunctive Relief
The
seventh cause of action fails because “[i]njunctive relief is a remedy, not a cause
of action.”  (Allen v. City of
Sacramento (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 41, 65.) 

8.
Declaratory Relief
The
first amended cross-complaint does not allege sufficient facts for declaratory
relief.  Declaratory relief “operates prospectively” and is not proper “where there
is an accrued cause of action for an actual breach of contract or other
wrongful act.”  (Baldwin v. Marina City Properties, Inc. (1978) 79 Cal.App.3d 393,
407.)  A claim for declaratory relief
does not lie when “ ‘the rights
of the complaining party have crystallized into a cause of action for past
wrongs,’ [citation] [and] a money judgment will fully resolve the dispute…
.”  (Cardellini v. Casey (1986)
181 Cal.App.3d 389, 396.)  When the
“issues invoked in” a cause of action for declaratory relief “already [are]
fully engaged by other causes of action,” “declaratory relief [is] unnecessary
and superfluous.”  (Hood v.
Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 319, 324.)
The first amended cross-complaint alleges a
controversy “concerning [the parties’] respective rights and duties under the
DOT and the Promissory Note”  (FACC, ¶
63) and a dispute over whether they “are valid and enforceable” (¶ 64).  The parties have already sued each other for violating
the DOT and promissory note.  Their
rights and duties and the validity of the DOT and promissory note are fully
engaged by the other causes of action.  A
money judgment would suffice to resolve the dispute between the parties.  Declaratory relief is unnecessary.  
Motion
to Strike
Cross-defendant
Gohar Tsilikyan, trustee of the Gohar Tsilikyan Living Trust Dated May 1, 2018,
moves to strike eight portions of the first amended cross-complaint by Narek
Eric Kazarian and Spectrum Lending, LLC. 
Courts
may strike “irrelevant matter” (CCP § 436(a)), including “[a] demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint”
(CCP § 431.10(b)(3)).  
A.
Punitive Damages
The
first amended cross-complaint alleges sufficient facts to recover punitive
damages.  Courts may strike allegations related to punitive damages where the
facts alleged “do not rise to the level of malice, oppression or fraud
necessary” to recover punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294.  (Turman v. Turning Point of Central
California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 64.)  The first amended cross-complaint alleges
sufficient facts for promissory fraud, which also meets the standard of fraud
under Civil Code section 3294.   
B.
Special Damages
The
first amended cross-complaint does not allege sufficient facts to recover
special damages.  “Contractual damages are of two types—general
damages (sometimes called direct damages) and special damages (sometimes called
consequential damages).”  (Lewis Jorge
Construction Management, Inc. v. Pomona Unified School Dist. (2004) 34
Cal.4th 960, 968.)  “Unlike general
damages, special damages are those losses that do not arise directly and
inevitably from any similar breach of any similar agreement.  Instead, they are secondary or derivative
losses arising from circumstances that are particular to the contract or to the
parties.  Special damages are recoverable
if the special or particular circumstances from which they arise were actually
communicated to or known by the breaching party (a subjective test) or were
matters of which the breaching party should have been aware at the time of
contracting (an objective test).”  (Id.
at pp. 968-969.)  
“A
defendant cannot be presumed to be aware of the special damage resulting from
his act, and therefore, in order to prevent a surprise on him, this sort of
damage must be specially set forth in the complaint, or the plaintiff will not
be permitted to give evidence of it.”  (Shook
v. Pearson (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d 348, 351.) 
“The facts as to special damages must be stated with particularity.  The amount of such damages must be stated
with particularity.  The amount of such
damages must be given, and the means of occasioning them must be set
forth.  When such damages depend on proof
of different circumstances from the general damages, the grounds of each claim
should be alleged.”  (Id. at p.
352.)
The
first amended cross-complaint prays “For special damages in amounts according
to proof” (FACC, prayer, ¶ 2) without identifying the nature of the special
damages, the amount, or the basis for them. 
Cross-complainants’ opposition makes no argument about special damages.
C.
“Judicial Determination”
            The first amended cross-complaint
does not allege a basis for the following portion of the prayer for relief: “A
judicial determination that the DOT and Agreement are valid and
enforceable.”  (FACC, prayer, ¶ 6.)  This echoes the eighth cause of action for
declaratory relief and is superfluous for the same reason.
D.
Restitution and Disgorgement of Profits
            The first amended cross-complaint
alleges sufficient facts for this form of relief.  Restitution is not a cause of action.  But it is a remedy.  The first amended cross-complaint alleges
cross-complainants lent Tsilikyan $500,000, and she refuses to repay it.  That is a basis for restitution and
disgorgement of the $500,000.
Disposition
Cross-defendant Gohar Tsilikyan, trustee of the Gohar Tsilikyan Living Trust Dated May 1,
2018’s demurrer to the entire first amended cross-complaint by Narek Eric
Kazarian is sustained with 20 days’ leave to amend.  The demurrer to the first amended
cross-complaint’s third, fifth, seventh, and eighth causes of action by
Spectrum Lending, LLC is sustained with 20 days’ leave to amend.  The demurrer to the first amended
cross-complaint’s second, fourth, and sixth causes of action by Spectrum
Lending, LLC is overruled.
Cross-defendant Gohar Tsilikyan, trustee of the Gohar Tsilikyan Living Trust Dated May 1,
2018’s motion to strike portions of the first amended cross-complaint is granted in part with 20 days’ leave to amend.  The
court hereby strikes the following portions of the first amended cross-complaint:
(1) “For special damages in amounts according to proof” (page 18, prayer, ¶ 2);
and (2) “A judicial determination that the DOT and Agreement are valid and enforceable”
(page 19, prayer, ¶ 6).