 Case Number:  23GDCV00784    Hearing Date:   November 3, 2023    Dept:  E  
Case Name:     Yuri,
et. al. v .Hyundai Motor America, et al.
 
Hearing Date: November
3, 2023      
Case No:         23GDCV00784                                                                      
Trial Date:       TBD
 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
Moving
Party:             Defendant
Hyundai Motor America
Responding
Party:       Plaintiffs Ojeda Yuri and
Leonel H. Escobar
 
 
 
RELIEF REQUESTED:
 
            Defendant
Hyundai Motor America requests the Court to compel Plaintiffs Ojeda Yuri and
Leonel H. Escobar to submit their claims to arbitration pursuant to existing
arbitration agreements and to stay the action pending the outcome of
arbitration.
 
BACKGROUND:
 
Plaintiffs Ojeda Yuri and Leonel H.
Escobar (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) initiated this action against Defendants Hyundai
Motor America (“HMA”) and Doe 1, an entity of unknown form dba Keyes Hyundai of
Van Nuys (“Keyes Hyundai”), alleging the following causes of action: (1)
violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty; (2) violation of
Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty; (3) violation of the
Song-Beverly Act § 1793.2; and (4) negligent repair. 
 
The Complaint alleges that
Plaintiffs purchased a 2020 Hyundai Venue, having a VIN No. KMHRC8A31LU044927,
on October 25, 2020, and in connection with the purchase, HMA issued a written
warranty. It is further alleged that the subject vehicle contained or developed
certain defects and nonconformities to warranty. These included issues to the
electrical system, transmission, suspension, emission and engine. Despite
various attempts to repair the subject vehicle, Defendants were unable to bring
it into conformity. Consequently, Plaintiffs revoke acceptance of the sales
contract. 
 
On May 25, 2023, HMA filed the
instant motion to compel arbitration. On October 23, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
their opposition papers. Thereafter, on October 27, 2023, HMA filed its reply
papers. 
 
            For the
reasons set out below, Defendant HMA’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED.

 
ANALYSIS:
 
Judicial Notice
 
            On May 25,
2023, HMA filed a request for judicial notice, requesting the Court to take
judicial notice of Plaintiffs’ Complaint. The request is granted pursuant to
Evidence Code § 452(d).
 
            On October
23, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a request for judicial notice, requesting the Court
to take judicial notice of the following documents: (1) the Appellate Court’s
opinion in Ochoa v. Ford Motor Co. (2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324; and (2) the
Ninth Circuit’s opinion in Ngo v. BMW of North America, LLC et al. (9th
Cir. 2022) 23 F.4th 942. The request is granted pursuant to Evidence Code §
452(d).
 
            On October 27, 2023, Defendant filed
a subsequent request for judicial notice, requesting the Court to take judicial
notice of the following court opinions: (1) Minute Order and Ruling in Paula
Vargas-Lopez v. Hyundai Motor America, (United States District Court,
Central District of California - Case No. 8:22-cv-01526-FWS-JDE); (2) Virginia
Mendoza v. Hyundai Motor America, (United States District Court, Central
District of California - Case No. CV 22-210-DMG (AFMx); and (3) Nanci Aleman
Garcia v. Hyundai Motor America, (LASC - Case No. 22STCV38870). 
 
The Court declines to take judicial notice of these rulings because, although
the court records are judicially noticeable, “[a] written trial court ruling in
another case has no precedential value.” (Budrow v. Dave & Buster’s of
California (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 875, 885; Bolanos v. Superior Court
(2008) 169 Cal.App.4th 744, 761.) The district court decisions have no
binding effect on this Court’s determination of the motion to compel
arbitration.
 
Legal Standard
 
When
seeking to compel arbitration of a plaintiff’s claims, the defendant must
allege the existence of an agreement to arbitrate.  (Condee v. Longwood
Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)  The burden then
shifts to the plaintiff to prove the falsity of the agreement.  (Ibid.) 
After the Court determines that an agreement to arbitrate exists, it then
considers objections to its enforceability.  (Ibid.)  The
Court must grant a petition to compel arbitration unless the defendant has
waived the right to compel arbitration or if there are grounds to revoke the
arbitration agreement.  (Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) 
 
Discussion
 

Existence of Arbitration
     Agreement

 
“[T]he petitioner bears the burden of proving its existence by a
preponderance of the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities
Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) “If the party opposing the petition
raises a defense to enforcement—either fraud in the execution voiding the
agreement, or a statutory defense of waiver or revocation [citation]—that party
bears the burden of producing evidence of, and proving by a preponderance of
the evidence, any fact necessary to the defense.” (Ibid.)
 
In support of its motion, HMA submits evidence of two arbitration
provisions existing in two separate agreements. 
 
The first is the arbitration agreement found the Owner’s Handbook &
Warranty Information (“Warranty Booklet”). (Motion at pp. 4-5; Ameripour Decl.,
Exh. 3 at pp. 15-16.) 
 
The second is the arbitration provision found within the Retail
Installment Sale Contract (“RISC”) that Plaintiffs executed in connection with
their purchase of the subject vehicle. (Motion at pp. 5-6; Ameripour Decl.,
Exh. 2.)  
 
HMA is not a signatory to the RISC and neither party signed the
arbitration provision found within the Warranty Booklet. 
 
Pursuant to the arbitration provision within the Warranty Booklet, it
provision states in pertinent part: 
 
If you purchased or leased your Hyundai vehicle in the State of
California,
you and we each agree that any claim or disputes between us (including
between you and any of our affiliated companies) related to or arising
out of
your vehicle purchase, use of your vehicle, the vehicle warranty,
representations in the warranty, or the duties contemplated under the
warranty, including without limitation claims related to the failure to
conform
a vehicle to warranty, failure to repurchase or replace your vehicle, or
claims
for a refund or partial refund of your vehicle's purchase price
(excluding
personal injury claims), shall be resolved by binding arbitration at
either your
or our election, even if the claim is initially filed in a court of law
 
. . . 
 
IF YOU PURCHASED OR LEASED YOUR VEHICLE IN CALIFORNIA, YOUR WARRANTY IS
MADE SUBJECT TO THE TERMS OF THIS BINDING ARBITRATION PROVISION. BY ACCEPTING
BENEFITS UNDER THIS WARRANTY, INCLUDING HAVING ANY REPAIRS PERFORMED UNDER
WARRANTY, YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THESE TERMS. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH THESE
TERMS, PLEASE CONTACT US AT OPTOUT@HMAUSA.COM WITHIN THIRTY (30) DAYS OF YOUR
PURCHASE OR LEASE TO OPT-OUT OF THIS ARBITRATION PROVISION.
 
(Ameripour Decl.,
Exh. 3 at pp. 15-16.)
 
            With regard to the RISC, the
arbitration provision therein states in pertinent part: 
 
Any claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise
(including the interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the
arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our employees,
agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit
application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any
resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with
third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be
resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action. . . .
 
(Id., Exh.
2.) 
 
            Based on the presentation of these
documents, the Court finds that HMA has met its burden in establishing the
existence of an arbitration agreement relating to the subject vehicle. However,
considering no party signed the Warranty Booklet and HMA is not a signatory to
the RISC, the issue of whether HMA has standing to compel arbitration must
still be resolve. This shall be discusses further below.
 

Standing to Enforce
     Arbitration Agreement Pursuant to the Doctrine of Equitable Estoppel

 
            When a petitioner seeks to compel arbitration
as to a non-signatory to the arbitration agreement, various theories are
available to support the moving party’s demand. On available theory is the
doctrine of equitable estoppel. (JSM Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court (2011)
193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1237.) 
 
Under this doctrine, a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration
clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when the causes
of action against the nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded in and intertwined’
with the underlying contract obligations. (Id.)
 
HMA asserts that the doctrine of equitable estoppel applies in this case,
and as a result, it has standing to compel arbitration under either arbitration
provision. The Court addresses each arbitration provision separately. 
 


Warranty Booklet


 
Here, HMA argues that it has
standing to compel arbitration pursuant to the arbitration provision found
within the Warranty Booklet because it is directly connected to Plaintiffs’
purchase of the subject vehicle. (Motion at pg. 11.) 
 
Furthermore, HMA argues that the
Complaint is premised on the warranties under the Warranty Booklet, and it is
alleged that Plaintiffs presented the subject vehicle for repairs on several
occasions. (Ibid.) Thus, HMA asserts Plaintiffs have received a direct
benefit under this warranty and that the claims are intertwined with the
warranty. (Id. at pg. 12.) Consequently, HMA argues Plaintiffs must be
estopped from refusing to comply with the arbitration provision in the
warranty. (Ibid.) 
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs argue
that they never signed any arbitration agreement following the purchase of the
subject vehicle, and the arbitration provision in the Warranty Booklet does not
require a consumer’s express consent. (Opposition at pp. 18-19; Yuri Decl. ¶
7.) Furthermore, Plaintiffs assert that their claims do not rely on the
Warranty Booklet. (Opposition at pg. 19.) 
 
In reply, HMA argues that mutual
assent has been established in the Complaint because Plaintiffs’ claims rely
entirely on the warranties provided within the Warranty Booklet. (Reply at pg.
1.) Furthermore, even though Plaintiffs did not sign the arbitration provision
found within the Warranty Booklet, this is not dispositive because they have
received a direct benefit pursuant to the Warranty Booklet. 
 
            In
consideration of these arguments, the Court finds that the doctrine of
equitable estoppel applies to this arbitration provision, and as a result, HMA
has standing to compel arbitration under the arbitration provision found within
the Warranty Booklet.  
 
While Plaintiffs did not manifest
their express consent to this arbitration provision, this is not dispositive
because their conduct following the purchase of the subject vehicle shows that
they accepted the benefits found within the Warranty Booklet. (See Cavalry
SPV I, LLC v. Watkins (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 1070, 1081 [“[A] party may
accept a contract by conduct, as well as by words.”]) 
 
As alleged in the Complaint, HMA
issued a written warranty, and the claims asserted in the Complaint “arise out
of warranty and repair obligations of [HMA].” (Compl. ¶¶ 5, 9-10, 18.)
Furthermore, it is alleged that Plaintiffs invoked HMA’s written warranty by
presenting the subject vehicle for repairs on several occasions to an
authorized repair facility. (Compl. ¶ 60.) As a result, because Plaintiffs
invoked HMA’s written warranty and their claims are intertwined with this
warranty, Plaintiffs are estopped from refusing to arbitration their claims
against HMA. 
 
The Court finds that HMA has
standing to compel arbitration pursuant to the arbitration provision found
within the Warranty Booklet. The Court further finds that the scope of this
arbitration provision encompasses Plaintiffs’ claims under the Song-Beverly
Act. (See Ameripour Decl., Exh. 3 at pg. 15.) 
 
For the sake of completeness, even
though the Court has found that HMA has standing to compel arbitration pursuant
to the arbitration provision found within the Warranty Booklet, the Court will
also address whether HMA has standing to compel arbitration pursuant to the
arbitration provision found within the RISC. 
 


RISC


 
In arguing that it has standing to
compel arbitration pursuant to the RISC, HMA relies on to Felisilda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486, review
denied (Nov. 24, 2020). (Motion at pp 14-15.) 
 
In Felisilda, the Court of Appeal found that purchasers of a
vehicle were estopped from refusing to arbitrate Song-Beverly Act claims
against the vehicle manufacturer, based on an agreement between the purchaser
and the vehicle dealer. (See Felisilda, supra, at 496-99.) 
 
While Felisilda constituted precedential authority at the time HMA
filed the instant motion, it is no longer good law. In Kielar v. Superior
Court of Placer Cnty. (2023) 94 Cal.App.5th 614, the Third District Court
of Appeal expressly repudiated Felisilda. (Id. at 616.) The Third
District issued a preemptory writ of mandate directing the trial court in the
case to vacate an order compelling arbitration of a plaintiff’s Song-Beverly
Act claims against an automobile manufacturer based on an arbitration clause in
the purchase agreement between the plaintiff and the dealer from which the
plaintiff purchased the automobile.  (Ibid.)  The trial court order in Keilar was
premised on Felisilda’s view that the doctrine of equitable estoppel
applied in this context.  (Ibid.)  The Third District in Keilar held that it
does not apply.  (Ibid.)
 
In rejecting Felisilda, the Third District in Keilar
adopted instead the rulings of Division Eight of the Second District in the Ford
Motor Warranty Cases, known by the lead case, Ochoa v. Ford Motor Co.
(2023) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324, and Division Seven of the Second District in Montemayor
v. Ford Motor Company (2023) 92 Cal.App.5th 958 (Montemayor). 
(See Keilar, supra, 94 Cal.App.5th at 620-621 [discussing Ochoa
and Montemayor].)  
 
The Courts in Ochoa and Montemayor rejected the reasoning
of Felisilda and held that the claims against a non-signatory automobile
manufacturer are not intimately founded in and intertwined with the obligations
in the contract containing the arbitration clause between the plaintiff and the
dealer from which the plaintiff purchased the automobile at issue, and
therefore the manufacturer could not invoke the doctrine of equitable estoppel
to enforce the arbitration clause.  (Ochoa, supra, 89
Cal.App.5th at 1333,1335-1336; Montemayor, supra, 92 Cal.App.5th
at 969-971.) Thus, HMA’s reliance on Felisilda is misplaced.
 
Because the doctrine of equitable estoppel does not apply here, HMA lacks
standing to compel arbitration pursuant to the RISC.
 

Standing to Enforce
     Arbitration Agreement Pursuant to the Doctrine of Third-Party Beneficiary

 
While not directly argued in HMA’s
moving papers, Plaintiffs contends that HMA also unsuccessfully invokes the
doctrine of third-party beneficiary as a means to establish standing to compel
arbitration pursuant to RISC. (Opposition at pp. 14-17.) The Court agrees with
Plaintiffs and finds that this doctrine does not apply. 
 
To invoke the third-party beneficiary exception, the non-signatory must
show that the arbitration clause of the agreement was “made expressly for
[their] benefit.”  (Civ. Code, § 1559.)
It is “not necessary that the beneficiary be named and identified as an
individual. A third party may enforce a contract where he shows that he is a
member of a class of persons for whose benefit it was made.”  (Garratt v. Baker (1936) 5 Cal.2d 745,
748; accord, Cargill, Inc. v. Souza (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 962, 967.)
 
A third party is entitled to enforce a contract where: (1) it benefits
from the contract, (2) a motivating purpose of the contracting parties was to
provide a benefit to the third party, and (3) permitting the third party to
enforce the contract is consistent with the objectives of the contract and
reasonable expectations of the parties. 
(Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th 817, 830.)
 
HMA has failed to show that the RISC was expressly made for its
benefit. Rather, it appears that the RISC was drafted for the purpose of
securing benefits for the contracting parties. (See Ameripour Decl, Exh. 2.) This
is evidenced by the fact that, other than referencing the contracting parties,
the arbitration provision only refers to the finance company’s employees, agents, successors or assigns.
Thus, HMA may not rely on the third-beneficiary doctrine as a means of
enforcing the arbitration provision within the RISC.
 
Because the RISC was not created
for HMA’s benefit, the third-party beneficiary doctrine does not apply. 
 

Unconscionability

 
As noted, HMA has standing to
compel arbitration pursuant to the arbitration provision found within the
Warranty Booklet. Consequently, Plaintiffs argue that this arbitration
provision is unenforceable because it is unconscionable. (Opposition at pp.
17-20.) 
 
The doctrine of unconscionability
refers to “an absence of meaningful choice on the part of one of the parties
together with contract terms which are unreasonably favorable to the other
party.”  (Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc. v. Moreno (2013) 57 Cal.4th 1109, 1133.) It
consists of procedural and substantive components, “the former focusing on
oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on overly
harsh or one-sided results.” (Ibid.)  Although both components of unconscionability
must be present to invalidate an arbitration agreement, they need not be
present in the same degree. (Armendariz
v. Found Health Psychcare Servs., Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.)
“Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity of the
procedural process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in
proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive
terms themselves. [Citations.] In other words, the more substantively
unconscionable the contract term, the less evidence of procedural
unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term is
unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Ibid.) 
“The party resisting arbitration bears the burden of proving
unconscionability.”   (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle
Market Dev. (US), LLC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 247.)
 
Plaintiffs argue that the that the
arbitration provision within the Warranty Booklet is procedurally
unconscionable because it amounts to an adhesion contract, the arbitration
rules were not provided, and the arbitration provision and the opt-out
provision were not conspicuously placed within the booklet. (Opposition at pp.
19-20.) Thus, Plaintiffs assert that there is a significant showing of
oppression and surprise. 
 
The Court is unpersuaded. That an
adhesion contract is involved does not per se render the arbitration
provision unenforceable because such contracts are “an inevitable fact of
life for all citizens—businessman and consumer alike.”  (Graham v.
Scissor-Tail, Inc.¿(1981) 28 Cal.3d 807, 817.) Also, Plaintiffs’
assertion that the arbitration provision and opt-out provision are “buried”
within the Warranty Booklet is unfounded because document’s table of contents
clearly identifies where the arbitration provision can be found. (See Ameripour
Decl., Exh. 3 at pg. 3.) Moreover, the opt-out provision is conspicuously
placed within the Warranty Booklet because it is written in bold and all
capitals. (Id. at pg. 14.) 
 
Furthermore, the arbitration
provision includes a reference to the website belonging to the chosen
arbitrator, JAMS Mediation, Arbitration and ADR Services, where the rules would
be accessible. (Id. at pg. 13.) While the absence of arbitration rules could constitute surprise, this issue is
minimized because HMA has not artfully hidden the reference to such rules. (Baltazar
v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1246.) Any potential of
surprise appears minimal, and as a result, there is only minimal of procedural
unconscionability.
 
Plaintiffs fail to argue that this
arbitration provision is substantively unconscionable because there is no
argument that a term within this arbitration provision is one-sided or overly
harsh. The Court finds that the arbitration provision is not substantively
unconscionable.
 
Plaintiffs have failed to meet
their burden in showing that the arbitration provision within the Warranty
Booklet is unconscionable. 
 
Conclusion
 
Because the arbitration agreement
is valid and enforceable and encompasses the scope of Plaintiffs’ claims, the
Court grants HMA’s motion to compel arbitration. 
 
The Court further stays the
proceedings during the pendency of the arbitration process. 
 
 
 