 Case Number:  24BBCP00021    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MARCH 8, 2024

PETITION
TO REINSTATE LLC

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24BBCP00021

 



MP:


Karo Papazyan (Petitioner)  




RP:


None



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on
this matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1)
notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument
in the Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies
all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the
hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative
ruling will become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is
received.”   
 
Notice may be given either by email at
BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS:
 
Before the Court is a petition made by Karo Papazyan (Petitioner) to
reinstate Blue Sky Hospice Care, Inc. (Blue Sky) to active corporate
entity status. The petition is unopposed. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.           
LEGAL STANDARD
 
The Secretary of State shall reinstate to
active status on its records, a business entity for which a court finds any of
the following: (1) The factual representations by a shareholder, member,
partner, or other person that are contained in the termination document are
materially false, or (2) the submission of the termination document to the
Secretary of State for filing is fraudulent. (Gov. Code § 12261 (a).)
 
Termination Document means the certificate or
other document required by the Corporations Code that is the last certificate
or document filed with the Secretary of State to effect the final dissolution,
surrender, or cancellation of the business entity. (Gov. Code § 12260.)
 
If a court of competent jurisdiction orders
reinstatement of a business entity to active status on any of the grounds
stated in paragraph (1) or (2) of subdivision (a), the order for reinstatement
shall state all of the following: (1) The specific grounds for reinstatement.,
(2) that if there is a conflict with the entity name [and various code
sections]…the reinstatement shall be conditioned upon the business entity
concurrently submitting for filing an amendment to change its name to eliminate
the conflict along with the certified copy of the order required by Section
12263, and (3) that the business entity shall be reinstated effective from the
date of the filing of the court order with the Secretary of State. (Gov. Code §
12261(b).)
 
The court order for reinstatement may be
obtained by submitting a petition to the superior court containing the legal
and factual basis for reinstatement or as part of a civil action for damages or
equitable relief. The Secretary of State shall not be made a party to the
proceeding. (Gov. Code § 12261(c).)
 
II.           
MERITS
 
Petitioner states that he is the
sole owner of Blue Sky and has operated the business since May 19, 2020.
(Papzyan Decl. ¶ 1.) Plaintiff attaches the article of incorporation for
Blue Sky which evidence the same. (Papzyan Decl. Exhs. A & B.) Petitioner
states that between May and July of 2023, he was considering selling the assets
of the business to a third party and dissolving the company. (Papzyan Decl.
¶ 3.) In preparation for this sale, Petitioner has his accountant, Ara
Kassabian (Kassabian), prepare a number of dissolution documents. (Papzyan
Decl. ¶ 5, Kassabian Decl. ¶ 4.) While the sale of the company’s assets
never came to pass, Kassabian’s staff inadvertently filed a Certificate of
Dissolution for Blue Sky. (Kassabian Decl. ¶ 6.) Consequently, the
Secretary of State dissolved the business. (Kassabian Decl. ¶ 6.) 
 
The Court is satisfied that Petitioner
has shown the terminating document was submitted fraudulently within the
meaning of Gov. Code § 12260. While not fraud in the most common sense, the
legislative history reveals that an inadvertent filing qualifies for relief
under the statute. “The Secretary of State reports that the situation arises
where a business will claim that it has been terminated wrongfully; that is,
the filer of the termination document was not acting on behalf of the
business.” (California Bill Analysis, A.B. 2588 Assem., 4/26/2006
[emphasis added].) Here, the Certificate of Dissolution was filed by
Kassabian’s staff without authorization and contrary to the interest of the
business. 
 
Accordingly, the petition for
reinstatement is GRANTED. Blue Sky Hospice Care, Inc. shall be reinstated
effective from the date of the filing of this order with the Secretary of
State. 
 
--
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties request a signed order or the
court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will
be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the
court’s records. 
 
ORDER
 
Karo Papazyan’s Petition to Reinstate came
on regularly for hearing on March 8, 2024 with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the Court,
being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE PETITION TO REINSTATE BLUE
SKY HOSPICE CARE, INC. TO ACTIVE STATUS IS GRANTED. 
 
BLUE SKY HOSPICE CARE, INC. SHALL
BE REINSTATED EFFECTIVE FROM THE DATE OF THE FILING OF THIS ORDER WITH HE
SECRETARY OF STATE. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
