 Case Number:  23BBCV00728    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MARCH 8, 2024

DEMURRER
& MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV00728

 
MP:                 Victor Valley Hospital Acquisition, Inc. (Defendant)
RP:                 Brian Tilmon (Plaintiff)

 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on
this matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1)
notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument
in the Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies
all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the
hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative
ruling will become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is
received.”   
 
Notice may be given either by email at
BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Brian Tilmon (Plaintiff) brings this action
against Victor Valley Hospital Acquisition, Inc., dba Victor Valley Global
Medical Center (Victor Valley), LJMP, LP, dba Capri in the Desert, San Marino in
the Desert RTC LLC dba San Marino in the Desert (collectively
“Defendants”).  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants failed to assess and address his medical
condition and needs during his stay at each of Defendants’ facilities. 
 
Victor Valley now demurs to the first cause of
action in Plaintiff’s Complaint for Dependent Elder Abuse. Victor Valley also
moves to strike attorney’s fees and costs associated with that cause of action,
and Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages. Plaintiff filed an opposition and
Victor Valley filed a reply. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARDS
 
The grounds for a demurrer must appear on the
face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (C.C.P. §
430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311, 318.) A demurrer for
sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes the truth of all factual,
material allegations properly pled in the challenged pleading. (Blank v.
Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how unlikely or improbable,
the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true for the purpose of ruling
on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials Co. (1981)
123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not include contentions;
deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the complaint; facts
impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a court may take
judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at 318.)
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”)
§§ 430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a complaint has been filed may
demur to the pleading on the grounds that the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or that the pleading is uncertain,
ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse of discretion to sustain a
demurrer without leave to amend if there is a reasonable probability that the
defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando v. City of Los Angeles
(2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
Motions to strike are used to reach defects or
objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by demurrer, such as words,
phrases, and prayers for damages. (See C.C.P. §§ 435, 436, and 437.) The proper
procedure to attack false allegations in a pleading is a motion to strike.
(C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting a motion to strike made under C.C.P. § 435,
“[t]he court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435 [notice of motion
to strike whole or part of complaint], or at any time in its discretion, and upon
terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter
inserted in any pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).) Irrelevant matters include
immaterial allegations that are not essential to the claim or those not
pertinent to or supported by an otherwise sufficient claim. (C.C.P. § 431.10.) 
 
The court may also “[s]trike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this
state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (C.C.P. § 436 (b).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a) and 435.5(a) requires that the moving
party meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to
the demurrer and/or motion to strike. Upon review the Court finds the meet and
confer requirements were met. (Lagas Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
Alleged Facts re: Victor
Valley 
 
On December 27, 2021, Plaintiff
entered a hospital operated by Victor Valley in severe abdomen pain, sepsis, and
an infected abdomen wound. (SAC ¶24.) Plaintiff was taken to surgery
immediately, and thereafter transferred to ICU where he stayed for most of his
hospitalization, intubated in an induced coma. (SAC ¶24.) Plaintiff had no
pressure sores upon admittance to Victor Valley’s facility. (SAC ¶ 25.) From
January 1 through January 20 of 2022, Plaintiff alleges that Victor Valley
staff failed to reposition him every two hours to avoid the risk of pressure
ulcers. (SAC ¶¶ 27-42.) Plaintiff alleges that on January 8, 2022, Victor
Valley staff documented a pressure sore injury to Plaintiff’s sacral area but
continued to not reposition him every two hours. (SAC ¶ 34.) Plaintiff
alleges several other instances where Victor Valley staff documented separate pressure
sore injuries. (See SAC ¶¶ 37-39.) Plaintiff alleges that over the course
of his stay in Victor Valley’s facility, the sacral pressure sore worsened considerably.
(SAC ¶¶ 51.) 
 
In addition, Plaintiff alleges that
Victor Valley was understaffed during his stay at the facility. (SAC ¶ 35.)
Plaintiff also alleges that Victor Valley did not provide passive “ROM”
exercises to prevent or lessen Plaintiff from developing severe contractures. (SAC
¶ 68.) 
 
Demurrer 
 
Victor Valley argues these
allegations fail to meet the heightened pleading requirements for statutory
claims and fail to allege specific facts supporting Plaintiffs’ allegations
that Victor Valley acted with oppression, fraud, or malice. Victor Valley also
argues the factual allegations in the Complaint do not amount to elder abuse. 
 
To plead elder
or dependent adult abuse, the plaintiff must allege “facts establishing that
the defendant: (1) had responsibility for meeting the basic needs of the elder
or dependent adult, such as nutrition, hydration, hygiene or medical care
[citations]; (2) knew of conditions that made the elder or dependent adult
unable to provide for his or her own basic needs [citations]; and (3) denied or
withheld goods or services necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult’s
basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to
befall the elder or dependent adult (if the¿plaintiff¿alleges oppression, fraud
or malice) or with conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury
(if the plaintiff alleges recklessness) [citations].” (Carter v. Prime
Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC¿(2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 406-07.) “The
plaintiff must also allege . . . that the neglect caused the elder or dependent
adult to suffer physical harm, pain or mental suffering.” (Id.¿at 407.)
“[T]he¿facts constituting the neglect and establishing the causal link between
the neglect and the injury ‘must be pleaded with particularity,’ in accordance
with the pleading rules governing statutory claims.” (Id.¿quoting¿Covenant
Care, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 790).)¿¿ 
 
Case law is clear that neglect within the meaning of Welf
and Inst. Code § 15610.57 covers an area of misconduct distinct from
professional negligence. (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(2004)
32 Cal.4th 771, 783.)¿ “As used in the Act, neglect refers not to the
substandard performance of medical services but, rather, to the ‘failure of
those responsible for attending to the basic needs and comforts of elderly or
dependent adults, regardless of their professional standing, to carry out their
custodial obligations.’”¿ (Id.)¿¿¿ 
 
In order to distinguish Dependent Adult Abuse from
Professional¿Negligence, there must be a showing of recklessness, fraud,
malice, or oppression. (See¿Covenant Care, Inc. supra, 32
Cal.4th¿at 783.) “Oppression, fraud, and malice involve intentional, willful,
or conscious wrongdoing of a despicable or injurious nature.” (Carter supra,
198 Cal.App.4th at 405 [internal
quotation marks omitted].) Recklessness requires deliberate disregard of a high
degree of probability an injury will occur. (Id.) The enhanced remedies
for Elder Abuse are only available for “acts of egregious abuse against elder
and dependent adults.” (Id.)
 
Victor Valley argues that the
factual allegations of the SAC lack the specificity required to state an elder
abuse cause of action. Specifically, Victor Valley argues that the SAC contains
no factual allegations as to any action of Victor Valley which constituted recklessness,
malice, or oppression. Victor Valley argues that, unlike the plaintiff in Carter,
Plaintiff did receive care and services in the form of repositioning. Victory
Valley appears to argue that Plaintiff must claim the complete absence of care,
rather than that care was not rendered frequently enough.  The Court disagrees.
 
As
alleged in the Second Amended Complaint that Plaintiff was admitted without
bedsores and was documented with a Braden Scale Score of 10/23 indicating
Plaintiff was at a high risk for pressure ulcers.  (SAC ¶26). 
From January 1, 2022 through January 7, 2022 Plaintiff was not
repositioned every two hours to avoid pressure ulcers.   As a result on January 8, 2022 a sacral
pressure injury occurred.  (SAC ¶34).  Plaintiff asserts that despite the sacral
pressure injury, Victor Valley still failed to reposition Plaintiff every two
hours, which resulted in a worsening in the injury.  After three additional days of improper
repositing more pressure ulcers developed. 
An additional pressure injury developed on January 18th.  Plaintiff then goes on to describe other injuries
related to the asserted neglect.  The
Court finds that the allegations are sufficient to support Plaintiff’s cause of
action. Plaintiff alleges that for a period of several days after his
admittance to Victor Valley, the staff failed to regularly reposition him to
avoid pressure sores developing. (SAC ¶¶ 27-33.) Plaintiff was entirely at
the mercy of the Victor Valley staff during this time as he was intubated and
in a coma. (SAC ¶ 24.) It was not until January 8 that Victor Valley staff
documented the formation of the pressure sore, and even then, Plaintiff alleges
staff failed to reposition him regularly. (SAC ¶¶ 33-36.) Plaintiff
alleges that this failure to reposition occurred even though Victor Valley
assessed a risk of pressure sore development. (SAC ¶ 29.) 
 
Victor
Valley argues that the SAC allegations imply that Plaintiff was repositioned in
some regard and was eventually evaluated for his pressure sore injuries. This
argument is unavailing. The fact that some repositioning occurred does not
negate Plaintiffs allegations that regular repositioning was required once
Victor Valley staff was aware of the risk. Victor Valley’s failure to regularly
reposition Plaintiff despite their knowledge of the risk could be found to be
recklessness sufficient to find elder abuse occurred. Whether such frequent
repositioning was actually called for and how often Victor Valley repositioned
Plaintiff are irrelevant for purposes of a demurrer. 
 
In Sababin
v. Superior Court, the California Court of Appeals explicitly denied the
argument that liability cannot be found for elder abuse unless there is a total
absence of care. (Sababin v. Superior Court (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th
81, 90.) The Sababin court held that a trier of fact must find that a
pattern of neglect occurred which involved repeated withholding of care and
leading to the conclusion that the pattern was the result of choice or
deliberate indifference. (Id.) Here, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged
a pattern of neglect whereby the staff at Victor Valley failed to reposition
him despite clear knowledge of the risks. Further, Plaintiff has alleged that
this failure to reposition and provide care is the result of a deliberate
scheme by Victor Valey and its managing agents to understaff their facility.
(SAC ¶ 101.) Whether Plaintiff will be able to provide evidence that this is
the case remains to be seen, but the Court finds the SAC contains sufficient
allegations as to a pattern of neglect. 
 
Accordingly,
Victor Valley’s demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
Victor Valley seeks to strike allegations and prayers for punitive
damages from the SAC on the grounds that (1) the facts alleged in the SAC do
not constitute oppression, fraud, or malice on the part of Victor Valley
(Strike Mot. ¶¶ 1-13.) and (2) Plaintiff has failed to plead facts
constituting authorization or ratification (Strike Mot. ¶¶ 14-18.) Victor
Valley lastly seeks to strike Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees. 
 
First, Victor Valley moves to strike those sections of the SAC which
allege vicarious liability. Victor Valley argues that any allegations which
allege they acted recklessly, intentionally, willfully, or maliciously should
be stricken as irrelevant. The Court disagrees. The sections which Victor
Valley seeks to strike are directly relevant to Plaintiff’s claim of systematic
neglect and vicarious liability. Accordingly, the motion to strike those allegations
is DENIED. 
 
Victor Valley further argues that punitive damages have been pled without
sufficient specificity. To succeed on a motion to strike punitive damages
allegations, it must be said as a matter of law that the alleged behavior was
not so vile, base, or contemptible that it would not be looked down upon and
despised by ordinary decent people. (Angie M. v. Superior Court (1995)
37 Cal. App. 4th 1217, 1228-1229.)
 
Victor Valley also argues that the facts supporting punitive damages have
not been pled such that malice could be shown by clear and convincing evidence
as per Civil Code § 3294(a). Civil Code § 3294(a) states that, “[W]here it is
proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of
oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff…may recover damages for the sake of
example and by way of punishing the defendant.” As discussed above in
connection with the demurrer, the SAC’s allegations are sufficient to support a
claim for willful misconduct, specifically, that Victor Valley acted with a
deliberate indifference and conscious disregard for Plaintiff’s health. Such
conduct can be deemed despicable conduct which is carried on with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others and thus may support
recovery of punitive damages. (See Civil Code § 3294(c) [defining malice and
oppression].) Accordingly, the motion to strike punitive damages is DENIED. 
 
Lastly, Victor Valley moves to strike Plaintiff’s claim for attorney’s
fees. Attorney's fees are recoverable in an elder abuse cause of action
pursuant to Welf. and Inst. Code § 15657(a). Because the elder abuse cause of
action remains viable, the motion to strike the prayer for attorney’s fees,
sought in connection with said cause of action remains viable as well.
Accordingly, the motion to strike the request for attorney’s fees is DENIED. 
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties submit on this
tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed order or the court in its
discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will be either
electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the court’s
records.
 
ORDER
 
Victor
Valley Hospital Acquisition, Inc.’s Demurrer
and Motion to Strike came on regularly for hearing on March 8, 2024,
with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and
the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows:
 
THE
DEMURRER TO THE FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION IS OVERRULED.
 
THE
MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED IN ITS ENTIRETY. 
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, VICTOR VALLEY TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 
I
 