 Case Number:  23BBCV01231    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MARCH 8, 2024

DEMURRER
& MOTION TO STRIKE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01231

 



MP:  


Victoria Farrington, Angel Shelburne, John Shelburne, and Kathryn Avila (Plaintiffs)




RP:  


NBCUniversal, LLC & NBCUniversal
  Media, LLC (Defendants)



 
NOTICE:
 
The
Court is not requesting oral argument on this matter.  Pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice of intent to appear is
required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the Tentative Ruling, no
argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all other parties and the
court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of the party’s intention
to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will become the ruling of the
court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”   
 
Notice
may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818)
260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Victoria Farrington (Farrington), by and through her successors in interest,
Angel Shelburne, Angel Shelburne, John Shelburne, and Kathryn Avila bring this
action against NBCUniversal, LLC & NBCUniversal Media, LLC
(Defendants). Plaintiffs allege Farrington was injured while visiting Universal
Studios, a theme park owned by Defendants, and that these injuries led to her
eventual death. 
 
On June 1, 2023,
Plaintiffs First Amended Complaint (FAC) contains four causes of action for (1)
Negligence, (2) Violation of the Unruh Act, (3) Wrongful Death, and (4)
Survivor’s Action.  
 
Defendants now
demurrer to the second and fourth causes of action. Defendants also move to
strike Plaintiff’s claim for statutory damages and attorney’s fees. Plaintiffs
oppose and Defendants reply. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.           
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
The grounds for a
demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable
matters. (C.C.P. § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal. 3d 311,
318.) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint states a cause of
action. (Id.)
 
A demurrer assumes
the truth of all factual, material allegations properly pled in the challenged
pleading. (Blank v. Kirwan, supra, 39 Cal. 3d at p. 318.) No matter how
unlikely or improbable, the plaintiff’s allegations must be accepted as true
for the purpose of ruling on the demurrer. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural
Materials Co. (1981) 123 Cal.  App. 3d 593, 604.) But this does not
include contentions; deductions; conclusions of fact or law alleged in the
complaint; facts impossible in law; or allegations contrary to facts of which a
court may take judicial notice.  (Blank, supra, 39 Cal. 3d
at 318.)
 
Pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure (“C.C.P.”) §§ 430.10(e) and (f), the party against whom a
complaint has been filed may demur to the pleading on the grounds that the
pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, or
that the pleading is uncertain, ambiguous and/or unintelligible. It is an abuse
of discretion to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is a
reasonable probability that the defect can be cured by amendment. (Schifando
v. City of Los Angeles (2003) 31 Cal. 4th 1074, 1082.)
 
Motions to strike are
used to reach defects or objections to pleadings that are not challengeable by
demurrer, such as words, phrases, and prayers for damages. (See C.C.P. §§ 435,
436, and 437.) The proper procedure to attack false allegations in a pleading
is a motion to strike. (C.C.P. § 436(a).) In granting a motion to strike made
under C.C.P. § 435, “[t]he court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section
435 [notice of motion to strike whole or part of complaint], or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (C.C.P. § 436(a).)
Irrelevant matters include immaterial allegations that are not essential to the
claim or those not pertinent to or supported by an otherwise sufficient claim.
(C.C.P. § 431.10.) 
 
The court may also
“[s]trike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (C.C.P. §
436 (b).)
 
II.           
MERITS 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
C.C.P. §§ 430.41(a)
and 435.5(a) requires that the moving party meet and confer with the party who
filed the pleading that is subject to the demurrer and/or motion to strike.
Upon review the Court finds the meet and confer requirements were met. (Ward
Decl. ¶ 3.) 
 
Alleged Facts 
 
Plaintiffs allege
that Farrington, a wheelchair bound Utah resident, during a trip to Los Angeles
visiting Universal Studios June 17, 2021. (FAC ¶¶ 2, 11.) Farrington was a paid
guest at Universal Studios and was attempting to access the “lower lot” of the
theme park. (FAC ¶ 11.) An unnamed Universal Studios employee denied
Farrington access to the elevator to the lower lot and advised her there was a 90-minute
wait to use the elevator. (FAC ¶ 11.) The FAC then alleges an unnamed
Universal Studios employee directed Farrington to an escalator which could be
used to access the lower lot. (FAC ¶ 11.) It is unclear if these actions
were by the same or different employees. Plaintiffs allege that Farrington
attempted to use the escalator with assistance of a family member but fell and
sustained injury. (FAC ¶ 12.) Farrington’s
health deteriorated due to her sustained injuries, and she passed away in
February of 2022. (FAC ¶ 13.)
 
Second COA –
Unruh Violations 
 
To state an
Unruh Act cause of action, a plaintiff must show that: (1) defendant denied,
aided or incited a denial of or discriminated against plaintiff with respect to
full and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities, privileges, or services;
(2) the substantial motivating reason for defendant's conduct was due to its
perception of an actionable characteristic; (3) the actionable characteristic
was a substantial motivating reason for defendant's conduct; and (4) defendant
was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff's harm. (CACI No. 3060.)
Importantly, "[a] plaintiff who establishes a violation of the ADA … need
not prove intentional discrimination in order to obtain damages under section
52." (Munson v. Del Taco, Inc. (2009) 46 Cal.4th 661, 665.) On the
other hand, a plaintiff establishing an Unruh violation that is not also an ADA
violation must nevertheless establish that the discrimination was intentional.
(Harris v. Capital Growth Investors XIV (1991) 52 Cal.3d 1142, 1172.)
 
The Court finds
that Plaintiffs have not sufficiently alleged discrimination or the denial of
accommodations to Farrington. Plaintiffs allege that Farrington was denied
access to the elevator, but in the same paragraph they state Farrington was
informed there was a 90-minute wait; after which time she could use the
elevator. It appears from Plaintiffs’ argument in opposition that they contend
the denial was simply access to the lower lot “within a reasonable amount of time”.
(Opp. p. 2.) Plaintiff cites to no authority that accommodations must be made
within a certain time frame, lest it be considered discriminatory. It appears
from Plaintiff’s pleadings that Farrington could have obtained safe passage to
the lower lot had she waited she 90 minutes; the same time as individuals
without a disability. Instead, Farrington chose to use the escalator and
suffered a fall. While the Court agrees that a 90-minute wait seems lengthy, it
does not follow that Farrington was denied access to the lower lot or required
to wait longer than anyone else seeking to use the elevator.  In short, it does not appear on the face of
the Pleadings that Farrington was denied access or discriminated against within
the meaning of the Unruh Act. 
 
Although Plaintiffs
have not pled sufficient facts as to discrimination at this juncture, it may be
possible they could amend to add additional facts if they exist. Accordingly,
the demurrer to second cause of action is SUSTAINED with 20 days’ leave to
amend. 
 
Fourth COA – Survivor
Action 
 
Defendants demur to
this cause of action as duplicative. Defendants argue a cause of action for
survival is unnecessary because Plaintiffs have already pled non-wrongful death
causes of action on Farrington’s behalf. 
 
“Unlike a cause of
action for wrongful death, a survivor cause of action is not a new cause of
action that vests in the heirs on the death of the decedent. It is instead a
separate and distinct cause of action which belonged to the decedent before
death but, by statute, survives that event. The survival statutes do not create
a cause of action. Rather, they merely prevent the abatement of the cause of
action of the injured person and provide for its enforcement by or against the
personal representative of the deceased.” (Quiroz v. Seventh Ave. Center
(2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1256, 1264 [internal citations and quotation marks
omitted].) 
 
Here, it is clear
that Plaintiffs asserted their non-wrongful death causes of action as survivors
of Farrington. The survival statute upon which these causes of action are
predicated, C.C.P. § 377.32, does not create an independent cause of action.
Accordingly, the demurer to the fourth cause of action is SUSTAINED without
leave to amend. 
 
Motion to Strike 
 
Defendants also move
to strike Plaintiff’s claims for statutory damages and attorney’s fees, both of
which are predicated upon Plaintiff’s first cause of action. As the Court has
sustained the demurrer to the first cause of action with leave to amend, the
motion to strike is MOOT. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
NBCUniversal, LLC
& NBCUniversal Media, LLC’s Demurrer came on
regularly for hearing on March 8, 2024 with appearances/submissions as noted in
the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the
premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE FIRST CAUSE OF ACTION IS
SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND. 
 
THE DEMURRER TO THE FOURTH CAUSE OF ACTION IS
SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.  
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS MOOT.
 
THE CASE MANAGEMENT CONFERENCE SCHEDULED FOR
MARCH 8, 2024 IS CONTINUED TO JUNE 25, 2024 AT 9:00 AM.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, NBCUNIVERSAL,
LLC TO GIVE NOTICE.
 
