 Case Number:  24GDCV00040    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MARCH 8, 2024

MOTION
TO CHANGE VENUE

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24GDCV00040

 



MP:  


Kia America, Inc. (Defendant)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Treyvon
Derrell Cunningham (Plaintiff) brings this action against Kia American, Inc.
(Kia) and C.K. Automotive, Ince. d/b/a Future Kia (Future) (collectively
Defendants). Plaintiff alleges several violations of the Song Beverly Act in
connection with his purchase of 2021 Kia K5 (Subject Vehicle) from
defendant Future. 
 
Kia now moves to change venue to Fresno County, where the
Subject Vehicle was purchased and serviced and where Plaintiff resides. Future
joins the motion. Plaintiff has rendered no opposition to the motion. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“The
court may, on timely motion, order transfer of an action when the court
designated in the complaint is not the proper court. The moving party must
overcome the presumption that the plaintiff has selected the proper venue.
Thus, it is the moving defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the plaintiff’s
venue selection is not proper under any of the statutory grounds. In opposing
the motion to change venue, the plaintiff may bolster his or her choice of
venue with counter-affidavits consistent with the complaint’s theory of the
type of action but amplifying the allegations relied upon for venue.” (Fontaine
v. Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 830, 836 [internal quotation marks
and citations omitted].)
 
For venue
purposes, actions are classified as “local” or “transitory.” (Brown v.
Superior Court (1984) 37 Cal.3d 477, 482 n.5.) To determine whether an
action is “local” or “transitory,” the Court looks to the “main relief sought.”
(Id.) Where the main relief sought is personal, the action is
transitory; however, where the main relief involves rights to real property,
the action is local. (Id.) In transitory actions against individual
defendants, the general rule of venue is applicable, where the county in which
the defendants or some of them reside at the commencement of the action is the
proper county for the trial of the action. (See C.C.P. § 395(a); see also Brown
supra, 37 Cal.3d at 483.) 
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Here, Defendants move to
change venue to Fresno County. In support of their motion Defendants argue that
Plaintiff has never resided in Los Angeles, that Plaintiff purchased the
Subject Vehicle in Fresno County, and that Plaintiff only sought to have the
vehicle repaired in Fresno County. (See Compl. ¶¶ 2, 9, 11-16; Revis Decl.
¶¶ 4-5.) The Court notes that these arguments speak to Plaintiff’s
residence and the location of the injury in controversy, not the residence of Defendants.
While these can be factors in the determination of venue, the Court must first
address the general venue provision in transitory actions as outlined by C.C.P.
§ 395(a). 
 
C.C.P. §
395(a) provides in relevant part that, “[t]he superior court in the county
where the defendants or some of them reside at the commencement of the
action is the proper court for the trial of the action.” (C.C.P. § 395(a)
[emphasis added].) The Complaint makes no reference to the residence of Kia or
Future in the County of Los Angeles. In contrast, Defendants have shown that
one of the Defendants, Future, resides in Fresno County and nowhere else.
(Revis Decl. ¶ 2.) As such, Defendants have shown that Plaintiff’s venue
selection is not proper under statutory grounds. Plaintiff has rendered no
opposition to this motion and a failure to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to the
granting of the motion. (California Rules of Court, Rule 8.54(c).) 
 
Given that Defendants have shown the proper venue to be
Fresno County, the presumption that Plaintiff has selected the proper venue is
adequately rebutted. As such, Defendants’ motion to change venue is GRANTED. 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Kia America, Inc.’s
Motion to Change Venue came on regularly for hearing
on March 8, 2024, with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for
said hearing, and the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and
there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO CHANGE VENUE IS GRANTED.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, KIA TO GIVE
NOTICE. 
 
IT IS SO
ORDERED. 
 

 