 Case Number:  21STCV27254    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MARCH 8, 2024

MOTION
TO QUASH & MOTION FOR UNDERTAKING

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 21STCV27254

 



MP:  


Beverly Hills New Life Medical Group,
  LLC, Ling M. Smith, & Cici Yun Zhang (Defendants)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Yuqin Liu
(Plaintiff) brings this action against Beverly
Hills New Life Medical Group, LLC (New Life), Ling M. Smith (Smith), and Cici
Yun Zhang (Zhang) (collectively Defendants). Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
negligently administered derma filler injections which resulted in personal
injury. 
 
Before the Court are
two motions. Defendants all move to quash service of the summons upon each of them
for defective service. New Life individually moves to require Plaintiff, an out
of state resident, to file an undertaking pursuant to C.C.P. § 1030. Plaintiff
has rendered no opposition to either of these motions. 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.           
LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Motion to Quash
Service 
 
“Service of process,
under longstanding tradition in our system of justice, is fundamental to any
procedural imposition on a named defendant.”  (AO Alfa-Bank v. Yakovlev
(2018) 21¿Cal.App.5th 189, 202 [internal quotations marks and citation
omitted].)  “To establish personal jurisdiction, compliance with statutory
procedures for service of process is essential.”  (Kremerman v. White (2021)
71 Cal.App.5th 358, 371.)  Defendant’s knowledge of the action does not
dispense with statutory requirements for service of summons.  (Kappel
v. Bartlett (1988) 200 Cal.App.3d 1457, 1466.) 
 
“A defendant, on or
before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that
the court may for good cause allow” may move “to quash service of summons on
the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her” that results
from lack of proper service.  (C.C.P. § 418.10(a)(1).)  A defendant
has 30 days after the service of the summons to file a responsive
pleading.  (C.C.P. § 412.20(a)(3).)  
 
“When a defendant
challenges the court’s personal jurisdiction on the ground of improper service
of process ‘the burden is on the plaintiff to prove the existence of
jurisdiction by proving, inter alia, the facts requisite to an effective
service.’” (Summers v. McClanahan¿(2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 403, 413.)
 
Motion for
Undertaking 
 
In an action or
special proceeding brought by a nonresident plaintiff, the defendant at any
time may move for an order requiring the plaintiff to post security. (C.C.P. § 1030(a).)
The stated grounds for the motion are that the plaintiff resides out of state
or is a foreign corporation, and there is a reasonable possibility that the
moving defendant will obtain a favorable judgment. (C.C.P. § 1030(b).) The
motion can be brought at any time. (C.C.P. § 1030(a).) The trial court has no
authority to deny the motion on the ground that it is untimely. (Heffron v.
Los Angeles Transit Lines (1959) 170 Cal.App.2d 709.) 
 
The notice of motion
must be served in accordance with C.C.P. § 1005(b) and must be accompanied by a
supporting declaration establishing the stated grounds and the nature and
amount of the attorney fees and costs the defendant expects to incur until the
action is concluded. (C.C.P. § 1030(b).) It must also be accompanied by a
memorandum of points and authorities. (C.C.P. § 1030(b); CRC Rule 313(a).)
 
The plaintiff may oppose
a motion for security under a number of theories: (1) proof that the plaintiff
is not a nonresident, (2) a showing of plaintiff's indigency, or (3) demonstrating
defendant's failure to make an adequate prima facie showing of a reasonable
possibility of success in the action. (C.C.P. § 995.240.) Furthermore, even if
adequate grounds exist for granting the motion for security, the plaintiff can
still challenge the defendant’s requested costs and attorney fees. The security
can be ordered only for “reasonable” costs and attorney fees, and the defendant
must be otherwise entitled to recover those fees by contract or by another
statutory provision. (C.C.P. § 1030(a).)
 
If the motion is
granted, the plaintiff shall file the undertaking no later than 30 days after
service of the Court’s order requiring it, and if plaintiff fails to file the
undertaking within the time allowed, the plaintiff's action shall be dismissed
as to the moving defendant. (C.C.P. § 1030(d).)
 
II.           
MERITS 
 
Motion to Quash
Service 
 
The Court notes that
the proofs of service for each Defendant are identical in content. Defendants
were purportedly served by substitute service on November 28, 2023. The address
for service is listed 310 W. Huntington Dr. Arcadia, CA 91007. The process
server’s affidavit attests that they left the documents with someone named
Hayden who was apparently in charge of the office. Notice was also mailed
thereafter. 
 
The Court first
addresses the motion as it is brought by New Life. On January 8, 2024, New Life
filed an Answer in this matter on January 17, 2023 and to the First Amended
Complaint on January 8, 2024.  They filed
the motion to quash on February 2, 2024. A party waives any objection to the
court's exercise of personal jurisdiction when the party makes a general
appearance in the action. An answer is such an appearance, as is expressly made
clear by C.C.P., § 1014, which states that a defendant appears in an action
when the defendant answers, demurs, or files a notice of motion to strike.  (Roy v. Superior Court (2005) 127 Cal.
App. 4th 337)
 
New Life has also
filed numerous discovery related motions and deposed Plaintiff. C.C.P. § 418.10(a)(1)
is clear that a motion to quash service of a summons must be made before a
responsive pleading is filed. New Life cannot file an Answer, constituting a
general appearance, and then subsequently move to quash service. Accordingly,
the motion to quash as to New Life is DENIED. 
 
As concerns Smith and
Zhang, neither of these Defendants have filed an Answer in the action.
Defendants argue that service via substitute service was ineffective for a
myriad of reasons. Defendants state that the address for service does not
actually exist. (Palin Decl. ¶ 1.) Further, if service was rendered at the
correct address, 301 W. Huntington Dr., Defendants argue that the proof of
service is insufficient to identify substitute service on defendants.
Defendants argue that 301 W. Huntington is a six-story office building, and the
proof of service does not identify a suite number. (Palin Decl. ¶ 2.) 
 
The proof of service
indicates to the Court that some compliance was made such that service may be
deemed adequate. “It is axiomatic that strict
compliance with the code's provisions for service of process is not required. (Ramos
v. Homeward Residential, Inc., 223 Cal. App. 4th 1434, 1443.) “[I]n
deciding whether service was valid, the statutory provisions regarding service
of process should be liberally construed to effectuate service and uphold the
jurisdiction of the court if actual notice has been received by the defendant.”
(Gibble v. Car-Lene Research, Inc. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 295, 313.) In
essence, substantial compliance with the code’s requirements for service of
process is sufficient. (Id.)  
 
Here, it
appears there was a defect in service is a typographical error on the building
number and the failure to identify the suite number where substitute service
was rendered. No facts exist by which the Court can determine that Smith and
Zhang received actual notice of the action because Plaintiff did not file an
opposition.  Failure to file an
opposition to the motion indicates the other parties' acquiescence that the
motion is meritorious. CRC Rule 8.54(c). 
 It remains Plaintiff’s burden to
prove the facts requisite to effective
service. By virtue of her failure to oppose this motion, Plaintiff has failed to
carry her burden. 
 
Accordingly, the
motion to quash service as to Smith and Zhang is GRANTED. 
 
Motion for
Undertaking 
 
New Life submits
evidence that Plaintiff is a resident of the State of Nevada, based on her
deposition testimony.  (Palin Decl. Exh.
A.) New Life also submits facts indicating a reasonable probability of success.
New Life submits that Plaintiff has testified at her deposition that she does
not know the name of the company which administered the derma filler injections
and that she does not have evidence that the person who administered the
injections was not a nurse. (See Id., Plaintiff Depo 95:10 – 96:4 & 97:16-18.)
New Life also asserts that Plaintiff’s negligence action is time barred, as she
filed the action after the one-year statute of limitations had run. (Mot. p.
6.) Lastly, New Life submits that Plaintiff has no evidence of a false,
misleading, or fraudulent statement made by New Life. (Palin Decl. Exh. A., Plaintiff
Depo. 89:19 – 90:4.) 
 
Plaintiff, having
rendered no opposition, has not demonstrated that any exception to an
undertaking should apply here. Plaintiff has not disputed her residency status,
indicated her indigency, or made any showings refuting New Life’s prima facie
case. As cited supra, failure to file an opposition to the motion
indicates the other parties' acquiescence that the motion is meritorious. CRC
Rule 8.54(c) accordingly, the motion for undertaking is GRANTED. 
 
New Life attaches a
breakdown of the fees already incurred and the fees it anticipates incurring
should the matter proceed to trial, which total $24,895. (See Palin Decl.
¶ 4.) The Court notes that the accounting includes “Sanctions Awards” in
connection with New Life’s discovery motions. Given the Court has already
issued order awarding these sanctions, their inclusion in the amount required
for an undertaking appears duplicative. If New Life is not being paid the
sanctions pursuant to the Court’s orders, such is the matter for a separate
motion to enforce that order. Accordingly, the Court shall require an
undertaking be filed by Plaintiff in the amount of $21,895. Plaintiff’s
undertaking shall be filed within 30 days of service of this order upon her. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Beverly Hills New Life
Medical Group, LLC, Ling M. Smith, and Cici Yun Zhang’s Motion to Quash Service
and Beverly Hills New Life Medical Group, LLC’s Motion for Undertaking came on regularly for hearing on March 8, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
NEW
LIFE’S MOTION TO QUASH IS DENIED. 
 
SMITH AND
ZHANG’S MOTION TO QUASH IS GRANTED. 
 
THE
MOTION FOR UNDERTAKING IS GRANTED. PLAINTIFF IS TO FILE AN UNDERTAKING FOR
$21,895 WITHIN 30 DAYS OF SERVICE OF THIS ORDER PURSUANT TO CCP §1030(D). 
 
OSC RE
UNDERTAKING IS SCHEDULED FOR APRIL 15, 2024 AT 9:00 AM.
 
UNLESS
ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, NEW LIFE TO GIVE NOTICE. 
 

 