  Case Number:  21PDUD01330    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MARCH 8, 2024

MOTION TO
REQUIRE THE FILING OF A SATISFACTION OF JUDGMENT

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 21PDUD01330

 



MP:  


Sheldon Pinchuk (Judgment
  Debtor)




RP:  


Moussa Faor (Judgment
  Creditor)



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
This
motion follows an unlawful detainer judgment rendered for Moussa Faor (Faor) as
against Sheldon Pinchuk (Pinchuk). Pinchuk, the plaintiff in the unlawful
detainer action, argued that Faor had breached a covenant to maintain or repair
the property in dispute. On September 9, 2022, the trial court conducted a non-jury
trial and entered judgment in favor of Faor. The case was deemed related to
another matter being heard in Department A; the related Department A matter has
been dismissed. Faor then filed a motion seeking attorney’s fees, as per the
judgment.  On January 11, 2023 the Court
entered an order awarding Faor attorney’s fees in the amount of $63,365.86. 
 
Pinchuk
now brings this motion for an order requiring the entry of a satisfaction of judgment.
Pinchuk argues that the judgment in this matter has been satisfied. Faor opposes
the motion, arguing that no such satisfaction has occurred. 
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Where a
judgment has been satisfied, but the judgment creditor refuses to file an
acknowledgment of this satisfaction, C.C.P. § 724.050 provides the relevant
procedure for obtaining such an acknowledgement by court order. The judgment
debtor must first make a demand on the judgment creditor. (C.C.P. §
724.050(a)-(b).) If the judgment creditor continues to refuse to file the
acknowledgement, the judgment debtor may thereafter “apply to the court on
noticed motion for an order requiring the judgment creditor to comply with the
demand . . .. If the court determines that the judgment has been satisfied and
that the judgment creditor has not complied with the demand, the court shall
either (1) order the judgment creditor to comply with the demand or (2) order
the court clerk to enter satisfaction of the judgment.” (C.C.P. § 724.050(d).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
The crux of Pinchuk’s
argument is that he satisfied the judgment by tendering a check for $26,915.86
on December 28, 2023. (Shafron Decl. ¶ 9.) Pinchuk previously sent a check for
the same amount on May 19, 2023 to Faor’s prior counsel. (Shafron Decl. ¶ 3.)
Prior Counsel for Faor never cashed the check and never responded to several
demand letters because he was medically incapacitated. (Shafron Decl.
¶ 6.) Pinchuk was informed of this situation by Faor’s new counsel in July
of 2023. (Shafron Decl. ¶ 6.) Pinchuk states that despite meet and confer
efforts, the parties could not agree on an amount due, and Faor would not
stipulate to the filing of a partial satisfaction of judgment. (Shafron Decl.
¶ 7.) 
 
Pinchuk contends that
tender of $26,915.86 check satisfies the judgment because it is accompanied by
an offset which accounts for rent that was not paid by Faor during the pending
unlawful detainer action. During the unlawful detainer action, Faor tendered
rent checks to Pinchuk, but these checks were not accepted for fear of waiving
the right to proceed. The rent owed during the pendency of the unlawful
detainer action was $36,450. (Shafron Decl. ¶ 9.) Pinchuk argues that the
combination of the check for $26,915.86 and the rent offset for $36,450 is
equivalent to a satisfaction of the judgment in full. 
 
Faor argues that the
judgment has not been satisfied. Faor states that they never received the check
sent December 28, 2023 and it was likely lost. The check remains uncashed.  (Rasheed Decl. ¶¶ 18-19.) Faor argues further
that Pinchuk fails to account for an additional $1,046.70 in costs that accrued
as the result of an unopposed memorandum of costs filed on February 24, 2023.
(Rasheed Decl. ¶ 9.) Lastly, Faor states that Pinchuk fails to account for
interest which accrued at the rate of $17.36 a day from February 23, 2023. (Rasheed
Decl. ¶ 10.) 
 
The parties both engage in
a lengthy discussion as to the correct date from which interest runs, whether
the issuance of the first check stops interest from running, and whether the
offset is appropriately claimed. These arguments are all outside of the scope
of a motion brought under C.C.P. § 724.050. The statute allows the court to
find a judgment satisfied when the judgment debtor shows it paid either (1) the
full judgment amount or (2) a lesser amount that the judgment creditor has
contractually agreed to accept as payment in full. (See C.C.P. §§ 724.010(a),
724.050; see also Horath v. Hess (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 456, 466, 468.)
It does not allow the Court to sua sponte determine the validity of Pinchuk’s
proposed offset or the appropriate amount of interest. 
 
A Court adjudicating a
motion under C.C.P. § 724.050 must make a finding as to whether the judgment
has been paid. Here, Pinchuk has submitted only that he issued a check for an
amount less than that of the judgment. Pinchuk makes no representation that
this check was cashed, therefore the judgment is not paid. Further, Pinchuk
presents no evidence of an agreement by Faor to accept an amount lower than the
judgment amount. The original judgment does not discuss the rent owed during
the pendency and the Court declines to adjudicate the matter in the context of
this motion. A determination of the appropriate amount of an equitable setoff
is the subject of its own motion, not a motion to enforce the satisfaction of
judgment. 
 
Accordingly, Pinchuk’s
motion is DENIED without prejudice. 
 
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Sheldon
Pinchuk’s Motion came
on regularly for hearing on March 8, 2024, with appearances/submissions as
noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the court, being fully advised
in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE MOTION TO REQUIRE THE FILING OF SATISFACTION
OF JUDGMENT IS DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
UNLESS ALL PARTIES WAIVE NOTICE, PINCHUK TO GIVE
NOTICE. 
 

 
 