 Case Number:  22BBCV00202    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MARCH 8, 2024

PETITION
TO REINSTATE LLC

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 22BBCV00202

 



MP:


Synan Johnson (Plaintiff) 




RP:


Diana Dolmayan (Defendant)



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on
this matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1)
notice of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument
in the Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies
all other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the
hearing of the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative
ruling will become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is
received.”   
 
Notice may be given either by email at
BurDeptA@LACourt.org or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS:
 
Synan Johnson (Plaintiff), in pro per, brings this action against Diana
Dolmayan (Defendant) and Ascentia Beauty Spa seeking seeks economic,
non-economic, special past and future damages, general past and future damages,
exemplary or punitive damages, and cost of suit. Plaintiff and Defendant were
partners in a business venture known as DS Medi Spa in 2021, however their
relationship soured, and the business ceased to exist soon after. Plaintiff
alleges, among other things, that Defendant conspired to offer medical services
without the proper licensing, interfered with Plaintiff’s business, and
generally tarnished Plaintiff’s reputation. 
 
Settlement was reached in a
separate unlawful detainer matter which dismissed Detox Shop LLC, a business
owned by Plaintiff, from this action. However, the claims of Plaintiff and DS
Medi Spa remain. 
 
Plaintiff now brings this
petition to have DS Medi Spa’s status as an active business reinstated with the
Secretary of State. 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
I.           
LEGAL STANDARD
 
The Secretary of State shall reinstate to
active status on its records, a business entity for which a court finds any of
the following: (1) The factual representations by a shareholder, member,
partner, or other person that are contained in the termination document are
materially false, or (2) the submission of the termination document to the
Secretary of State for filing is fraudulent. (Gov. Code § 12261 (a).)
 
Termination Document means the certificate or
other document required by the Corporations Code that is the last certificate
or document filed with the Secretary of State to effect the final dissolution,
surrender, or cancellation of the business entity. (Gov. Code § 12260.)
 
If a court of competent jurisdiction orders
reinstatement of a business entity to active status on any of the grounds
stated in paragraph (1) or (2) of subdivision (a), the order for reinstatement
shall state all of the following: (1) The specific grounds for reinstatement.,
(2) that if there is a conflict with the entity name [and various code
sections]…the reinstatement shall be conditioned upon the business entity
concurrently submitting for filing an amendment to change its name to eliminate
the conflict along with the certified copy of the order required by Section
12263, and (3) that the business entity shall be reinstated effective from the
date of the filing of the court order with the Secretary of State. (Gov. Code §
12261(b).)
 
The court order for reinstatement may be
obtained by submitting a petition to the superior court containing the legal
and factual basis for reinstatement or as part of a civil action for damages or
equitable relief. The Secretary of State shall not be made a party to the
proceeding. (Gov. Code § 12261(c).)
 
II.           
MERITS
 
Arguments
 
Plaintiff states that she voluntarily
dissolved DS Medi Spa at some point after the Complaint was filed in this suit
on March 29, 2022. (Johnson Decl. ¶¶ 2-3.) Plaintiff attaches email
correspondence between herself and Defendant’s former counsel. In this
correspondence it appears that Plaintiff consented to the dissolution of DS
Medi Spa or, in the alternative, its continued operation under Defendant. (See
Exh. B [“I am interested in dissolving and tying up loose ends when it comes to
dissolving the llc. That is my sole interest… Either your client wants to
dissolve the business or stay in business. I’ve actually agreed to both at this
point.”].) 
 
Plaintiff also attached the
Certification of Cancellation (Certification) she received from the California
Secretary of State. (See Exh. A.) This certificate contains statements which
Plaintiff certified were true including that the LLC did not maintain assets
and that the LLC did not conduct any business after filing its articles of
incorporation. (See Id.) Plaintiff now asserts that these statements are
false. 
 
Defendant’s opposition rests
primarily on the argument that Plaintiff should not be allowed to reinstate DS
Medi Spa if she was the same party that made the materially false statements
that resulted in cancellation. In support of this premise, Defendant cites
California Civil Code § 3517 which states, “No one can take advantage of his
own wrong.” This statute is frequently cited as the basis for arguments of
estoppel, intended to preclude a party from taking advantage of a situation
they ostensibly caused. Defendant argues that should DS Medi Spa be reinstated,
Plaintiff would reap the benefit of being able to pursue claims on its behalf
against Defendant. 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff attests that she
obtained the Certification by following an automated process on a service
called IncFile. (Johnson Decl. ¶ 6.) Plaintiff appears to suggest that
IncFile generated the statements which were materially false, stating that all
she did was to fill in a few multiple-choice options provided to her. (Johnson
Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff’s declaration is silent as to what the IncFile
dissolution process actually was. The Court finds these submissions do not
clearly indicate whether the statements in the Certification were the subject
of the multiple-choice options Plaintiff filled out. To the extent that
Plaintiff suggests IncFile’s automated systems generated the false information,
the Court does not find the evidence shows as much. It appears from the
evidence that Plaintiff must have made the statements in the process of
dissolving DS Medi Spa. 
 
Further, Plaintiff attaches no
evidence in support of her claim that DS Medi Spa conducted business pursuant
to its articles of incorporation. Plaintiff only states that she and Defendant will
under penalty of perjury testify that DS Media Spa conducted business. (See
Mot. p. 5.) Plaintiff submitted a sworn declaration alongside this motion, but
that declaration is silent as to the business activities of DS Medi Spa. Plaintiff
also claims DS Medi Spa maintains assets which are stored at Defendant’s
property. (See Id.) Plaintiff’s declaration is also silent as to these
assets. None of the exhibits attached to Plaintiff’s moving papers attest to
the business activities of DS Medi Spa or its assets. As it stands, Plaintiff
has presented no evidence in connection with her petition that the information
on the Certification was materially false. 
 
Further, the Court finds Plaintiff’s
motion is not in keeping with the purpose of Gov. Code § 12261. 
 
While the nuance of a statue is
often defined by case law, neither party cites to case law which is directly on
point. This is for good reason, as the California Appellate Court has only addressed
relief under Gov. Code § 12261 once since the statute was passed in 2006. In Holistic
Supplements, LLC v. Stark (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 530, the California
Appellate Court addressed Gov. Code § 12261 only insofar as necessary to
determine that a separate proceeding is not needed to reinstate a company. Holistic
contains no discussion of the statute which speaks to the facts of this
case. 
 
To this end, the Court finds an
analysis of legislative history to be useful. The legislative history of the statute
provides: “[t]his bill would benefit the public by allowing a business entity
to obtain a judicial determination, and if appropriate, a court order to
reinstate the business, without suing the Secretary of State, thus streamlining
the administrative process, removing the Secretary of State from the judicial
process and reducing state costs.” (California Bill Analysis, Senate Floor,
2005-2006 Regular Session, Assembly Bill 2588, 8/10/2006.) “The Secretary
of State reports that the situation arises where a business will claim that it
has been terminated wrongfully; that is, the filer of the termination
document was not acting on behalf of the business.” (California Bill
Analysis, A.B. 2588 Assem., 4/26/2006 [emphasis added].) 
 
It appears from the legislative
history that the specific scenario Gov. Code § 12261 was designed to prevent
was one in which the filer of the cancellation was acting contrary to the will
of the business entity. This is not the scenario in this case where Plaintiff,
by her own exhibits, is shown to have acted on behalf of the business. There
was no disagreement about the dissolution of DS Medi Spa between its only two
partners, Plaintiff and Defendant. In combination with the law’s general
prohibition on profiting from one’s own wrong, the Court finds that Plaintiff
could not in good faith seek to reinstate DS Medi Spa under Gov. Code § 12261. 
 
Finally, the moving party should
address the request first to the California Secretary of State and follow any administrative
procedures if the Secretary of State denies the request.  The next court of action is to seek judicial
relief if the Secretary of State denies the request.
 
Conclusion 
 
The Court finds Plaintiff has not
shown DS Medi Spa was cancelled by an instrument containing materially false
information or an instrument which was falsely made. As such, Plaintiff is not
entitled to relief under Gov. Code § 12261. Even had Plaintiff made such a
showing, the Court finds she would likely be estopped from reinstating DS Medi
Spa as the evidence indicates she was the party who would have made the false
statements. 
 
Accordingly, the petition is
DENIED. 
--
 
RULING:
 
In the event the parties request a signed order or the
court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the following form will
be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and entered into the
court’s records. 
 
ORDER
 
Synan Johnson’s Petition to Reinstate came
on regularly for hearing on March 8, 2024 with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the Court,
being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as follows: 
 
THE PETITION TO REINSTATE DS MEDI SPA LLC IS
DENIED. 
 
