 Case Number:  24BBCP00018    Hearing Date:   March 8, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANK
DEPARTMENT
A
 

TENTATIVE
RULING
MARCH 8, 2024

PETITION
TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 24BBCP00018

 



MP:  


Two Nine Sports Inc.
  (Petitioner)




RP:  


None



 
NOTICE:
 
The Court is not requesting oral argument on this
matter.  Pursuant to California Rules of Court, Rule 3.1308(a)(1) notice
of intent to appear is required.  Unless the Court directs argument in the
Tentative Ruling, no argument will be permitted unless a “party notifies all
other parties and the court by 4:00 p.m. on the court day before the hearing of
the party’s intention to appear and argue.  The tentative ruling will
become the ruling of the court if no notice of intent to appear is received.”  

 
Notice may be given either by email at BurDeptA@LACourt.org
or by telephone at (818) 260-8412.
 
ALLEGATIONS: 
 
Two Nine
Sports Inc. (Petitioner) brings this petition to confirm an arbitration award
obtained against Spare CS, Inc. (Spare). The arbitration award was made on October
12, 2023 for $148,474.12. Spare has made no response to this petition.   
  
ANALYSIS: 
 
I.                   
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
Any party
to an arbitration award may petition the court to confirm, correct, or vacate
the award. (C.C.P. § 1285.) “If a petition or response under this chapter is
duly served and filed, the court shall confirm the award as made, whether
rendered in this state or another state, unless in accordance with this chapter
it corrects the award and confirms it as corrected, vacates the award or
dismisses the proceeding.” (C.C.P. § 1286.) A petition to confirm a binding
arbitration shall name as respondents all parties to the arbitration and may
name any other parties to be bound by the award. (C.C.P. § 1285.) The petition
shall (1) set forth the substance of or have attached a copy of the agreement
to arbitrate unless petitioner denies the existence of such an agreement; (2)
set forth the name(s) of the arbitrator(s); and (3) set forth or have attached
a copy of the award and written opinion of the arbitrator. (C.C.P. §
1285.4(a)-(c).)
 
The
petition to confirm must be served and filed no later than four years after the
date of service of a signed copy of the award on the petitioner (C.C.P. § 1288)
but may not be served and filed until at least 10 days after service of the
signed copy of the award upon the petitioner. (C.C.P. § 1288.4.) Where the
arbitration agreement does not provide the manner in which service shall be
made and the person on whom service is to be made has not previously appeared
in the proceeding and has not previously been served in accordance with se C.C.P.
§ 1290.4(a), the petition and notice of hearing must be served in a manner
provided by law for the service of summons in an action. (C.C.P. § 1290.4(b).)
 
II.                
MERITS 
 
Service of the notice for
this petition was rendered on February 2, 2024. The proof of service shows
service was made on D’Ontra Hughes, Spare’s agent for service of process, via
substitute service. It appears the notice was left with Lisa Kline, a mailroom
specialist, at 16192 Coastal Hwy Lewes, DE 19958 and mailed thereafter.  The proof of service does not indicate to whom
the mailing was addressed, was it to Ms. Kline, D’Ontra Hughes or some other
person.  Furthermore, to what address was
it mailed.
 
The Court has concerns
about the adequacy of service here.  
 
A summons may be served on
a corporation by personal delivery to the agent for service of process, the
president, CEO or “other head of the corporation,” vice president, secretary,
assistant secretary, treasurer, assistant treasurer, controller or CFO of the
corporation. (C.C.P. § 416.10(a), (b). Substitute service may be made by
leaving the summons and complaint with a person apparently in charge and
mailing a copy to the same address. (C.C.P. 
415.20(a).)
 
Service
of the petition was made on Spare through its agent for service of process but
was simply left for the agent with the mail clerk of their building at the
office. It is not clear that Lisa Kline was a person “apparently in charge” as
per C.C.P. § 415.20(a). The process server’s affidavit does not state that she
attempted to ascertain who was in charge at the location, nor does it identify
Lisa Kline as that person. Further, the process server attests that Lisa Kline
was “a competent member of the household at the dwelling house or usual place
of abode of the person served.” This statement employs language that applies to
service on an individual defendant, not a corporate defendant. (See C.C.P. §
415.20 (a).) The statement is also contrary to the fact that the petition was clearly
served at Spare’s company address   The logic of the “apparently in charge”
requirement is that notice is more reasonably calculated to be received by a
corporate entity when someone who is in charge of one of its locations received
it. Service on a mailroom employee does not equate to one who is “apparently in
charge” of the office. As a result, the purported substitute service is
insufficient. 
 
Accordingly,
the petition to confirm arbitration award is DENIED without prejudice.
--- 
 
RULING:
 
In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records. 
 
ORDER 
 
Two Nine
Sports Inc.’s Petition to Confirm Arbitration
Award came on regularly for hearing on March 8, 2024,
with appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and
the court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows: 
 
THE PETITION TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARD IS
DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  
 

 
 