 Case Number:  23CHCV00276    Hearing Date:   November 7, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 11/7/24                                                                         
TRIAL DATE: 12/9/24
Case #23CHCV00276
 
SUMMARY
JUDGMENT/SUMMARY ADJUDICATION 
 
Motion filed on 8/21/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Fortune
Energy, Inc.; Fortune Energy Distribution, Inc.; Fortune Energy Distribution
Corp.; and F.E. Distribution Inc.
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Southwest Marine and General
Insurance Company
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order granting summary
judgment in favor of Defendants and against Plaintiff on Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint.
 
RULING: The motion is denied in its entirety.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of payments made by Plaintiff
Southwest Marine and General Insurance Company (Plaintiff) as surety on a
Customs Bond issued by Plaintiff on behalf of Defendant Fortune Energy,
Inc.  
 
Plaintiff alleges that on or about 11/7/13, a written
Custom’s Bond Agreement & Indemnity (Agreement) was made between
Plaintiff’s authorized Agent and non-Party, Avalon Risk Management Insurance
Agency, LLC (Avalon) and Fortune Energy, Inc. (collectively, Principal or
Defendant).  (See Zaragoza Decl.,
Ex.1; Separate Statement (SS) 16).  Avalon
acted as an agent for Plaintiff, an admitted carrier of its parent company, and
non-party Coaction Specialty Insurance Company (Coaction), and pursuant to
Agreement, Avalon requested that Plaintiff issue a Customs Bond and to act as
Surety on the bond, and Plaintiff did issue a Customs Bond on behalf of Plaintiff
to Defendants, Bond #17C003X0M (Bond), and named themselves as Surety on the
bond.  (Zaragoza Decl., Ex.2; SS
17).  The Bond was issued in favor of
U.S. Customs Border and Protection for continuous one year terms until such
time as terminated.  (Leslie Decl.;
Zaragoza Decl.; SS 18).  The Bond had
limits of liability in the amount of $50,000.00.
 
From approximately 12/30/21 through 2/1/22, multiple
demands for payment under the Bond were made upon Plaintiff by U.S. Customs
Border and Patrol for two payments which totaled $41,542.96 for duties
Defendants deprived the United States Government from collecting alleging
violations of Title 19, Unites States Code, Section, 1592 by which Defendants
declared the material used in construction of the imported equipment was of a
different alloy than the material that Defendant reported was used, and
therefore the duty was higher.  (Leslie
Decl.; Zaragoza Decl., Ex.3-6; SS 19-22). 
The U.S. Customs and Border Patrol indicated in their notice of
violation that the standard violated by Defendants was fraud, and did not
believe that the standard violated was negligence or gross negligence.  Defendant failed to respond to the notices
issued to Defendant.  Defendant failed to
present a defense, or to even respond to the notices issued to Plaintiff which
were forwarded to Defendant.  (Zaragoza
Decl., Ex.3-6; SS 27).  
 
On or about 3/3/22, by a letter sent to Defendant, Avalon
Risk Management demanded that Defendant pay the duties demanded by the U.S.
Customs and Border Enforcement, and warned Defendant that any payment required
to be made on their behalf by Plaintiff would require reimbursement by
Defendant.  (Zaragoza Decl., Ex.7; SS
24).   
 
On or about 3/9/22, Plaintiff, paid two claims made
against the Bond by U.S. Customs Border and Protection on behalf of Plaintiff’s
bond Principal, the Defendant, by and through Coaction’s non-admitted carrier
and non-party New York Marine and General Insurance Company, for $15,218.26 and
$26,324.70, totaling $41,542.96.  (Leslie
Decl.; Zaragoza Decl., Ex.8; SS 25).   
 
Plaintiff contends that on or about 3/9/22, Defendants
breached the Agreement by failing to repay the amount expended by Plaintiff.  As a result, Plaintiff claims to have suffered
damages in the amount of  $41,542.96.  (Zaragoza Decl.; SS 25).   
 
On 2/1/23, Plaintiff filed this action against Defendant
Fortune Energy, Inc. and Defendants Fortune Energy
Distribution, Inc.; Fortune Energy Distribution Corp.; and F.E. Distribution
Inc., as the alter egos of Fortune Energy, Inc.  (collectively, Defendants), for breach of
contract and indemnity.  In response to a
demurrer to the original complaint, on 6/5/23, Plaintiff filed a First Amended
Complaint which alleges the same two causes of action. 
 
On 12/12/23, this Court overruled Defendants’ demurrer to
the First Amended Complaint and ordered Defendants to answer within 30
days.  (See 12/12/23 Minute
Order).  On 1/11/24, Defendants answered
the complaint.  
 
On 8/21/24, Defendants filed and served the instant
motion seeking an order granting summary judgment in favor of Defendants and
against Plaintiff on Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint.  The motion is titled as being a motion for
summary judgment, or, in the alternative, summary adjudication.  (See Notice of Motion,
p.i:14-17).  The introduction to the
Memorandum of Points and Authorities filed in support of the motion also
indicates that the motion is one for summary judgment or alternatively summary
adjudication.  (See Motion,
p.1:3-4, p.1:26-28).  However, the body
of the notice of motion indicates that Defendants are only seeking summary
judgment in their favor on Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint.  (See Notice of Motion, p.ii:1-14).  Additionally, no alternative issues are set
forth in the notice of motion or in the separate statement filed in support of
the motion as required to obtain such relief. 
See CRC 3.1350(b), (h); CCP 437c(f).  As such, the Court cannot determine what
alternative issues Defendants’ seek to have adjudicated.  
 
Plaintiff has opposed the motion and Defendants have
filed a reply to the opposition.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Request for Judicial Notice
 
Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice (RJN) is
denied.  Defendants’ request that the
Court take judicial notice of Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint, Plaintiff’s
Original Complaint, Defendants’ Demurrer to the Original Complaint, Defendants’
Demurer to the First Amended Complaint, Plaintiff’s Opposition to the Demurrer
to the First Amended Complaint, Defendants’ Reply to the Opposition to the
Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint; the Court’s Minute Order Re the Ruling
on the Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint, and Defendants’ Answer to the
First Amended Complaint.  Since all of
the foregoing documents are part of the Court file, the Court finds it
unnecessary to take judicial notice of same.  
  
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
Plaintiff’s objections (numbers 1-7) to the Schoen
declaration are overruled.  
 
*  *  *
 
A party may move for summary
judgment if it is contended that the action has no merit or there is no defense
to the action.  See CCP
437c(a)(1).  A motion for summary
judgment must be granted if all of the papers show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a
matter of law.  CCP 437c(c).  
 
A defendant moving for summary
judgment has met its “burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit
if the party has shown that one
or more elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot
be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause
of action. Once the defendant or cross-defendant has met that burden, the
burden shifts to the plaintiff or cross-complainant to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause
of action or a defense thereto.”  CCP
437c(p)(2).  A cause of action has no
merit if one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be separately
established or a defendant establishes an affirmative defense to the cause of
action.  CCP 437c(o).  If the moving party on a motion for summary
judgment fails to meet its initial burden, the burden never shifts to the
responding party and the motion must be denied. 
See Swanson (2014) 232 CA4th 954, 963.
 
Since Defendants have failed to properly request or
support the alternative request for summary adjudication, as noted above, it must
be denied.  As such, if one triable issue
of material fact exists, the motion must be denied.  
 
The gravamen of Defendants’
argument is that Plaintiff cannot establish that a contract exists between the
parties which is an essential element of Plaintiff’s causes of action for
breach of contract and express indemnity. 
(See Defendants’ Memorandum of Points and Authorities,
generally).  However, Defendants have
failed to support this argument, both procedurally and substantively.  
 
The separate statement filed
in support of the motion does not include material facts which support a
finding that Plaintiff cannot establish the contract element of its claims.  Material facts are defined as “facts that
relate to the cause of action, claim for damages, issue of duty, or affirmative
defense that is the subject of the motion and that could make a difference in
the disposition of the motion.”  See
CRC 3.1350(a)(2).  The first seven facts in
the separate statement set forth the underlying material facts which led to the
filing of this action.  (See
Separate Statement 1-7).   The next six facts
set forth the procedural history of the case as set forth above.  (See Separate Statement 8-13).  The last two facts in the separate statement
merely set forth the date Defendants propounded Requests for Admissions on
Plaintiff and the date Plaintiff served responses to same.  (See Separate Statement 14-15).  Defendants do not point to any specific
Request for Admission or response thereto which supports their position that
they are entitled to summary judgment in their favor on Plaintiff’s First
Amended Complaint.  (SS 14-15).  As such, Defendants have failed to establish how
these facts could make a difference in the disposition of the motion.  
 
An examination of the Requests
for Admissions and responses thereto, reveals that Plaintiff has denied all of
the Requests for Admissions.  (See
Defendants’ Ex.13-14).  The denials of
the requests for admissions are not admissible because Plaintiff’s litigation
conduct is not directly at issue.  See
Gonsalves (2015) 232 CA4th 1406, 1417. 
Further, Defendants have not shown that the facts denied by Plaintiff
are in fact true.
 
The evidence before the Court establishes that a triable
issue of material fact exists regarding the existence of a contract (the Customs
Bond) which was renewed annually as long as Defendant paid the bond premium.  (See FAC ¶17; Zaragoza Decl., Ex.2; SS
17, 30, 31).  The evidence indicates that
the Customs Bond was issued by Plaintiff at Defendant’s special insistence and
request, pursuant to the “Customs Bond Application and Indemnity.”  (Zaragoza Decl., Ex.1-2; SS 16-18).  Plaintiff is listed as the Surety in the bond
which is the agreement which required Plaintiff to pay Customs and Border
Enforcement for the duties that Defendant failed to pay.  The evidence indicates that Plaintiff acted
as a Surety for the import duties, and paid the customs duty when it was
demanded by U.S. Customs after Defendant failed and refused to pay as agreed.  (Zaragoza Decl., Ex.7, 8; SS 25-26, 31, 38-41).   
 
Minimally, based on the contract and California law, a
triable issue of material fact exists as to whether Defendants must reimburse
Plaintiff for the sums paid by Plaintiff on Defendant’s behalf.  Civil Code 2847 provides: 
 
“If a surety
satisfies the principal obligation, or any part thereof, whether with or
without legal proceedings, the principal is bound to reimburse what he has
disbursed, including necessary costs and expenses; but the surety has no claim
for reimbursement against other persons, though they may have been benefited by
his act, except as prescribed by the next section.”
 
Defendants have not presented any evidence to refute
Plaintiff’s allegation that Fortune Energy Distribution, Inc., Fortune Energy
Distribution Corp., and F.E. Distribution Inc., are alter egos of Defendant
Fortune Energy, Inc.  As such, a triable
issue of material fact also exists as to the liability of these
defendants.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is denied in its entirety.
 
The Court notes that Plaintiff has failed to
electronically bookmark the exhibits attached to the declaration of Rosa
Zaragoza filed in support of the opposition in violation of CRC 3.1110(f)(4).  Counsel for the parties are warned that
failure to comply with this rule in the future may result in matters being
continued so that papers can be refiled in compliance with the rule, papers not
being considered and/or the imposition of sanctions.     