  Case Number:  21STCV45088    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF
  CALIFORNIA, ex rel., ALLSTATE INSURANCE COMPANY,
 
  
         vs.
 
ADAM AVELARDO PEREZ, et al. 


 Case No.: 
  21STCV45088
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 17, 2024



 
Defendant R.O.A.R.
Management Company, Inc.’s demurrer to the third amended complaint of Plaintiff
Allstate Insurance Company is overruled as to the 1st and 2nd causes of action.
          Defendants 11 Funding, LLC’s and Ari
Resnik’s demurrer to the third amended complaint of Plaintiff Allstate
Insurance Company is overruled as to the 1st and 2nd causes of action.
 
Defendant R.O.A.R. Management Company’s [previously
named Doe 2] (“ROAR”) (“Defendant”) demurs to each cause of action in
Plaintiff People of the State of California, ex rel. Allstate Insurance
Company’s (“Allstate”) (“Plaintiff”) third amended complaint (“TAC”) alleged
against it.  (Notice Demurrer ROAR, pg. 2.)
Defendants 11 Funding, LLC [previously named Doe 5] (“11
Funding”) and Ari Scott Resnik [previously named Doe 4] (“Resnik”) (collectively,
“11 Funding Defendants”) demur to each cause of action in Plaintiff’s TAC
alleged against them.  (Notice Demurrer 11
Funding, pg. 2.)
 
Procedural Background
          Plaintiff
filed its initial complaint as a qui tam relator on behalf of the People
of the State of California and on behalf of itself on December 10, 2021.  Plaintiff filed its first amended complaint
(“FAC”) on October 21, 2022.  Plaintiff
filed its second amended complaint (“SAC”) on September 18, 2023.  Plaintiff filed the operative TAC against
Non-moving Defendants Alan Todd Turner, M.D. (“Turner”), George Mednik, M.D.
(“Mednik”), Adam Avelardo Perez (“Perez”), New Hope Imaging Services, LLC (“New
Hope”), Healthcare Financial Solutions, LLC (“HFS”), Healthcare Management
Associates (“HMA”), Mary Aviles (“Aviles”), and Moving Defendants ROAR and 11
Funding Defendants (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging two causes of action:
(1) violation of CIFPA, Insurance Code §1871.7; and (2) violation of the Unfair
Competition Law, Business & Professions Code §17200 et seq.
          ROAR filed its
demurrer on June 20, 2024.  On October 3,
2024, Plaintiff filed its opposition.  On
October 10, 2024, ROAR filed its reply.
          11 Funding
Defendants filed their demurrer on July 30, 2024.  Plaintiff filed its opposition on October 3,
2024.  On October 10, 2024, 11 Funding
Defendants filed their reply.
 
1.     ROAR’s Demurrer
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party must meet and
confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party
who filed the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the
objections to the pleading and obviate the need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a), emphasis added.) 
ROAR’s counsel declares he met and conferred with
Plaintiff’s counsel telephonically on June 18, 2024, and the parties were
unable to resolve the issues through a meet and confer.  (Decl. of Lee ¶2.)  ROAR’s counsel’s meet and confer declaration
is sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41. 
Therefore, the Court will consider the instant demurrer.
 
Summary of Allegations
Plaintiff alleges Defendants carried out a scheme to defraud
insurance companies that cover claims for services related to Magnetic Resonance
Imaging (“MRI”).  (TAC ¶2, Exh. A.)
Plaintiff alleges because Defendants submitted (or caused
to be submitted) at least 398 fraudulent claims to Allstate, California law
imposes penalties of at least $1,990,000 and assessments of up to $4,200,000.  (TAC ¶¶6, 7, Exh. A.)
 
Summary of Demurrer
ROAR demurs to the 1st and 2nd
causes of action on the basis they do not state facts sufficient to constitute
causes of action against it and are uncertain. 
(Demurrer ROAR, pg. 3; C.C.P. §§430.10 (e), (f).)
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Insurance Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider
declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted
for the truth of their contents].)  For
purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed
to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of
law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital
District (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure to State a Cause of
Action
Violation of CIFPA, Insurance Code §1871.7 (1st COA)
Insurance Code §1871.7 provides, in part:
(a)  It is unlawful to knowingly employ
runners, cappers, steerers, or other persons to procure clients or patients to
perform or obtain services or benefits pursuant to Division 4 (commencing with
Section 3200) of the Labor Code or to procure clients or patients to perform or
obtain services or benefits under a contract of insurance or that will be the
basis for a claim against an insured individual or his or her insurer.
 
(b)  Every person who violates any provision of
this section or Section 549, 550, or 551 of the Penal Code shall be subject, in
addition to any other penalties that may be prescribed by law, to a civil
penalty of not less than five thousand dollars ($5,000) nor more than ten
thousand dollars ($10,000), plus an assessment of not more than three times the
amount of each claim for compensation, as defined in Section 3207 of the Labor
Code or pursuant to a contract of insurance. The court shall have the power to
grant other equitable relief, including temporary injunctive relief, as is
necessary to prevent the transfer, concealment, or dissipation of illegal
proceeds, or to protect the public. The penalty prescribed in this paragraph
shall be assessed for each fraudulent claim presented to an insurance company
by a defendant and not for each violation.
 
(Ins. Code §§1871.1(a)-(b).)
False claim actions are subject to “heightened fraud-like
pleading requirements.”  (State of
California ex rel. McCann v. Bank of America, N.A. (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th
897, 906.)  “As in any action sounding in
fraud, the allegations of a [California False Claims Act] complaint must be
pleaded with particularity. The complaint must plead ‘the time, place, and
contents of the false representations, as well as the identity of the person
making the misrepresentation and what he obtained thereby.’”  (Id., internal citations
omitted.)  Specificity is necessary in
alleging claims under Insurance Code §1871.7(b), as it incorporates Penal Code
§550, which in turn requires a specific intent to defraud.  (People v. Blick (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th
759, 772-775 [a violation of Penal Code §550 requires that the person charged
must “intend to commit a fraud”].)
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that, at all
relevant times, there was a unity of interest between ROAR and Resnik, such
that any individuality and separateness between them ceased.  (TAC ¶41.) 
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that Resnik is, therefore,
the alter ego of ROAR, which was and is a mere shell, instrumentality, and
conduit through which Defendant Perez carried on his business.  (TAC ¶42.) 
Plaintiff alleges adherence to the fiction of the separate existence of
ROAR, as distinct from Resnik would permit an abuse of the corporate privilege
and would promote injustice by protecting Resnik from liability for the
wrongful acts committed by them.  (TAC
¶43.)  Plaintiff alleges any references
or allegations regarding or relating to ROAR apply equally to Resnik.  (TAC ¶43.) 
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that Resnik had common
supervision, control, management, officers, and a unity of interest in
ownership of ROAR, which is reflected in the commingling and pooling of their
earnings, expenses, and losses, such that for all intents and purposes, they
are one and the same and the alter ego of one another.  (TAC ¶44.)
Plaintiff alleges Defendants Resnik, through ROAR, and
Non-moving Defendant Aviles, through her company HMA, were owners and
principals of HFS.  (TAC ¶126.)  Plaintiff alleges these parties acted as
alter egos and agents of each other, and each engaged in, aided, assisted, or
abetted such conduct and the illegal scheme.  (TAC ¶126.) 
Plaintiff alleges as HFS’s Manager, Resnik was responsible for the
general supervision, direction, and control of HFS and had all the powers and
duties of management typically vested in the president of a corporation,
including, but not limited to, HFS’ business and internal administration, employment
of employees, and purchasing, negotiating, and settling accounts receivable
acquired by the HFS.  (TAC ¶126.)  
Plaintiff alleges Resnik and Aviles, as owners of HFS,
controlled, authorized, and directed the operations of HFS, including its
fraudulent referral and billing scheme described herein, and both Resnik and
Aviles are personally liable for their actions taken on behalf of ROAR and HMA,
respectively, and for their actions on behalf of HFS.  (TAC ¶127.) 

Plaintiff alleges Resnik through his company ROAR is an
owner and principal of HFS.  (TAC
¶131.)  Plaintiff alleges these parties
acted as alter egos and agents of each other, and each engaged in, aided,
assisted, or abetted such conduct and the illegal scheme.  (TAC ¶131.) 
Plaintiff alleges among other things, Resnik and ROAR were involved in
negotiating HFS’s agreements, negotiating liens and collecting on accounts
receivable.  (TAC ¶131.)
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges a cause of action against ROAR
under CIFPA with the requisite specificity by way of Plaintiff’s alter ego
allegations connecting Resnik and HFS. 
(TAC ¶¶3, 27, 41-44, 126-127, 131.) 
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges with specificity the violations of CIFPA
alleged against Resnik and HFS that are therefore attributable to ROAR.
Accordingly, ROAR’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 1st cause of
action is overruled.
 
Violation of
Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”) (2nd COA) 
The UCL prohibits “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent” business
acts or practices.  (Bus. & Prof.
Code §17200 et seq.)  By proscribing “any
unlawful” business act or practice, the UCL “borrows” rules set out in other
laws and makes violations of those rules independently actionable.  (Zhang v. Superior Court (2013) 57
Cal.4th 364, 370.)  A “violation of
another law is a predicate for stating a cause of action under the UCL’s
unlawful prong.”  (Berryman v. Merit
Property Management, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1544, 1554.)  Conversely, “[w]hen a statutory claim fails, a
derivative UCL claim also fails.”  (Aleksick
v. 7-Eleven, Inc. (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th 1176, 1185.)
Plaintiff sufficiently allege a UCL cause of action against
ROAR on the basis it has sufficiently alleged a cause of action for violation
of CIFPA.
Accordingly, ROAR’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 2nd cause of
action is overruled.
 
Conclusion
ROAR’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 1st
and 2nd causes of action in its TAC is overruled.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
2.     11 Funding Defendants’
Demurrer
Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer, the demurring party must meet and
confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party
who filed the pleading to attempt to reach an agreement that would resolve the
objections to the pleading and obviate the need for filing the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a), emphasis added.) 
11 Funding Defendants’ counsel declares he met and
conferred with Plaintiff’s counsel telephonically on June 18, 2024, and the
parties were unable to resolve the issues through a meet and confer.  (Decl. of Lee ¶2.)  11 Funding Defendants’ counsel’s meet and
confer declaration is sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41.  Therefore, the Court will consider the
instant demurrer.
 
Summary of Demurrer
11 Funding Defendants demur to
the 1st and 2nd causes of action on the basis they do not state facts sufficient
to constitute causes of action against them and are uncertain.  (Demurrer 11 Funding, pg. 3; C.C.P. §§430.10
(e), (f).)
 
Failure to State a Cause of
Action
Violation of CIFPA, Insurance Code §1871.7 (1st COA)
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that, Defendant
Resnik has at relevant times directly or indirectly held an ownership interest
in, exerted control over, and/or acted as an agent for other Defendants, including
HFS, ROAR, and 11 Funding.  (TAC ¶25.)  Plaintiff alleges on information and belief there
was a unity of interest between 11 Funding and Resnik, such that any
individuality and separateness between them ceased.  (TAC ¶46.) 
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that Resnik is, therefore,
the alter ego of 11 Funding, which was and is a mere shell, instrumentality,
and conduit through which Defendant Perez carried on his business.  (TAC ¶47.)  Plaintiff alleges adherence to the fiction of
the separate existence of 11 Funding, as distinct from Resnik would permit an
abuse of the corporate privilege and would promote injustice by protecting Resnik
from liability for the wrongful acts committed by them.  (TAC ¶48.) 
Plaintiff alleges any references or allegations regarding or relating to
11 Funding apply equally to Resnik.  (TAC
¶48.)  Plaintiff alleges on information
and belief that Resnik had common supervision, control, management, officers,
and a unity of interest in ownership of 11 Funding, which is reflected in the
commingling and pooling of their earnings, expenses, and losses, such that for
all intents and purposes, they are one and the same and the alter ego of one another.  (TAC ¶49.)
Plaintiff alleges Resnik, ROAR and Aviles have begun to
wind down the operations of HFS.  (TAC
¶128.)  Plaintiff alleges as HFS began to
dissolve, Resnik formed a new factoring company, 11 Funding, that took advantage
of HFS’s improper relationships between personal injury attorneys and
healthcare providers who treat patients on a lien basis, including New Hope.  (TAC ¶128.) 

Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that 11 Funding
uses the same improper business practices as HFS, and has entered into a
similar agreement or agreements with New Hope to improperly refer patients for
unlicensed medical services in exchange for kickbacks.  (TAC ¶129.) 
Plaintiff alleges on information and belief that other Sham Factoring Defendants
(currently named only as Doe Defendants) use the same improper business
practices as HFS and have entered into similar agreements with New Hope to improperly
refer patients for unlicensed medical services in exchange for kickbacks.  (TAC ¶129.)
Plaintiff alleges under the referral agreement between HFS
and New Hope, and as part of the illegal scheme, 11 Funding paid New Hope at
least $167,330 between February 28, 2022, and June 15, 2023.  (TAC ¶130.) 

Plaintiff alleges Resnik through his company ROAR is an
owner and principal of HFS.  (TAC
¶131.)  Plaintiff alleges these parties
acted as alter egos and agents of each other, and each engaged in, aided,
assisted, or abetted such conduct and the illegal scheme.  (TAC ¶131.) 
Plaintiff alleges among other things, Resnik and ROAR were involved in
negotiating HFS’s agreements, negotiating liens and collecting on accounts
receivable.  (TAC ¶131.)
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges a cause of action against 11
Funding Defendants under CIFPA with the requisite specificity by way of
Plaintiff’s alter ego allegations connecting Resnik, ROAR, 11 Funding, HFS, and
New Hope.  (TAC ¶¶3, 25, 27, 46-49, 128-131.)  Plaintiff sufficiently alleges with
specificity the violations of CIFPA alleged against Resnik and HFS that are
therefore attributable to ROAR.
Accordingly, ROAR’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 1st cause of
action is overruled.
 
Violation of
Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”) (2nd COA) 
Plaintiff sufficiently allege a UCL cause of action against
11 Funding Defendants on the basis it has sufficiently alleged a cause of
action for violation of CIFPA.
Accordingly, 11 Funding Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s
2nd cause of action is overruled.
 
Conclusion
11 Funding Defendants’ demurrer
to Plaintiff’s 1st and 2nd causes of action in its TAC is overruled.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
 
Dated:  October ______, 2024                               





  