 Case Number:  23STCV26236    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



ADRIANA AGUILAR,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
S.D. 34 OFFICE INC., D/B/A AMERICAN PARA PROFESSIONAL
  SYSTEMS, INC., et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV26236




Hearing Date:


September 25, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
PLAINTIFF ADRIANA AGUILAR’S MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE SECOND AMENDED
  COMPLAINT[1]



 
Background
On
October 26, 2023, Plaintiff Adriana Aguilar (“Plaintiff”) filed this action
against Defendants S.D. 34 Office Inc., dba American Para Professional Systems,
Inc. (“APPS”) and Ally Contreras (jointly, “Defendants”). 
The
Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) discrimination, (2) harassment, 
(3) retaliation,
(4) failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, and retaliation, (5) failure
to provide reasonable accommodations, (6) failure to engage in a good faith
interactive process, 
(7) wrongful
termination in violation of public policy, (8) for declaratory judgment, (9)
failure to pay wages, (10) failure to provide meal and rest periods, (11)
failure to indemnify for necessary business expenses, (12) failure to provide an
accurate itemized wage statement, (13) waiting time penalties, and (14) “Private
Attorney General Act.”[2]
            In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges,
inter alia, that “[o]n or about November 2018, Defendants hired Plaintiff to work as a
phlebotomist, and in approximately May 2023, Defendant switched Plaintiff’s
position to a customer service representative.” (Compl., ¶ 20.) “During the hiring process, Plaintiff alerted
Defendant that she had a medical condition and/or disability which would
require Plaintiff to take occasional time off for doctors’ appointments.”
(Compl., ¶ 30.) “Throughout May and June 2023, Plaintiff was placed off work
following a doctor’s visit, yet Defendants required Plaintiff to continue
working against her doctor’s restrictions.” (Compl., ¶ 33.) “Following a doctor
mandated leave from June 22 through June 25, 2023, on July 6, 2023, Defendant
terminated Plaintiff’s employment.” (Compl., ¶ 34.) 
Plaintiff
alleges that “Defendants
discriminated and retaliated against Plaintiff by failing to provide agreed
upon accommodations for Plaintiff’s medical leave, and by terminating Plaintiff
for engaging in a protected activity.” (Compl., ¶ 35.) Plaintiff further
alleges that “Defendants, including Defendant CONTRERAS, also subjected the
Plaintiff to harassment by subjecting Plaintiff to a hostile work environment
and forcing her to work in contravention of her doctor’s restrictions.”
(Compl., ¶ 36.) 
            Plaintiff now moves for “an order permitting the filing of a First
Amended Complaint, which (1) adds a Negligent Supervision and Retention [sic];
(2) seeks an Order to add Defendant Sonia Hernandez as an individual Defendant;
and, (3) to also include specific allegations relating to the alleged cause of
action, as well as newly acquired factual allegations in support of the causes
of action.” Defendants oppose. 
Discussion
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
 section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “[t]he court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading.” Amendment may be allowed at any time before or after
commencement of trial. (Code Civ. Proc., §
576.) 
“[T]he court’s discretion will usually be exercised liberally to permit
amendment of the pleadings. The policy favoring amendment is so strong that it
is a rare case in which denial of leave to amend can be justified.” (Howard v. County of San Diego (2010) 184 Cal.App.4th 1422, 1428 [internal
citations omitted].) “If the motion to amend is timely
made and the granting of the motion will not prejudice the opposing party, it
is error to refuse permission to amend….”  
(Morgan v. Superior Court of Los
Angeles County (1959) 172
Cal.App.2d 527, 530.) Prejudice includes “delay in trial,
loss of critical evidence, or added costs of preparation.” (Solit v. Tokai Bank (1999) 68 Cal.App.4th 1435, 1448.)
A motion to amend a
pleading before trial must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading, which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324, subd. (a).) The
motion must also state what allegations are proposed to be deleted or added, by
page, paragraph, and line number. (Ibid.) Finally, “[a] separate declaration
must accompany the motion and must specify: (1)
The effect of the amendment;
(2) Why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)
When the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)
The reasons why the request for amendment was not made earlier.” (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1324, subd. (b), emphasis added.)
Exhibit 3 to Plaintiff’s
counsel’s declaration is a copy of the proposed First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”). (Perez-Casillas Decl., p. 14.) In addition, Exhibit 4 to Plaintiff’s
counsel’s declaration is a copy of the proposed FAC with redline changes. (Perez-Casillas
Decl., p. 14.) 
The proposed FAC adds a
new cause of action for negligent supervision and retention which alleges, inter
alia, that “Defendant APPS had reason to know that Defendant HERNANDEZ
created a risk or threat of harassment and/or injury to Plaintiff, as alleged
herein, due to previous complaints and Plaintiff’s complaint of Defendant
HERNANDEZ’s behavior, including but not limited to Defendant HERNANDEZ’s
harassment of Plaintiff and ratification by Defendant APPS through Defendant
CONTRERAS…Defendant APPS breached its duties by failing to properly supervise
or control INDIVIDUAL HARASSERS; and by failing to terminate the employment of
INDIVIDUAL HARASSERS so that Plaintiff could work in a reasonably safe
environment free from discrimination, hostility, intimidation, and harassment.”
(Perez-Casillas Decl., p. 14, Ex. 4, ¶¶ 136-137.) The proposed FAC also
includes additional factual allegations and names Sonia Hernandez as a
defendant. (Perez-Casillas Decl., p. 14, Ex. 4.)
Plaintiff’s counsel
states that “[t]he proposed First Amended Complaint accomplishes several
things: (1) It adds new facts after receiving evidence from written discovery
and through deposition testimony; (2) In [sic] adds Defendant Sonia Hernandez
as an individual harasser; (3) It adds a cause of action for Negligent
Supervision and Retention; (4) It adds factual allegations language to support
Plaintiff’s theory of liability in support of the cause of action.” (Perez-Casillas
Decl., ¶ 12.) 
As an initial matter, as
noted by Defendants, Plaintiff’s counsel’s supporting declaration does not
specify “[w]hen the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered,” or “[t]he reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subds.
(b)(3)-(4).) As set forth above, the requirements of California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324, subdivision (b) are mandatory. Plaintiff
appears to submit evidence in connection with the reply to show that “Plaintiff
now includes Defendant Sonia Hernandez for harassment after obtaining testimony
from third-party witness Maricela Perez…” (Reply at p. 3:20-21.) However,
Defendants have not had the opportunity to address such evidence submitted with
the reply. The Court notes that “¿[t]he general rule of motion practice…is that
new evidence is not permitted with reply papers.¿” (¿Jay v. Mahaffey¿(2013)
218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537¿.)[3]
Defendants also argue
that Plaintiff “unreasonably delayed in seeking to amend.” (Opp’n at p. 14:24.)
Defendants assert that “[t]he redline of the proposed FAC demonstrates that the
only new allegations desscribe [sic] Plaintiff’s own experiences during her
employment. See Perez-Casillas Decl., Ex. 3, ¶ 33 (what Plaintiff claims
to have told the company), ¶ 34 (identifying alleged disability as obesity), ¶
35 (listing doctor’s appointments), ¶ 38 (describing alleged mistreatment by
Sonia). Plaintiff’s motion entirely fails to address when Plaintiff discovered
these facts or why they could not have been alleged earlier because…this
information was necessarily known to Plaintiff at least 14 months ago when she
still worked at APPS.” (Opp’n at pp. 14:27-15:5, emphasis omitted.) Plaintiff
does not appear to address this point in the reply. As discussed, Plaintiff’s
counsel’s supporting declaration does not specify “[w]hen the facts giving rise
to the amended allegations were discovered,” or “[t]he reasons why the request
for amendment was not made earlier.” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1324, subds. (b)(3)-(4).)
Defendants also argue
that “Plaintiff’s failure to name Sonia as a defendant within the court’s
prescribed timeframe provides an additional basis for denying leave to amend.”
(Mot. at p. 16:4-5.) Defendants cite to the Court’s February 26, 2024 Case
Management Conference Order, which provides, inter alia, “5/31/24 Nonappearance
date by which Plaintiff agrees and Court orders Plaintiff to serve all doe
defendants or file a dismissal. If neither occurs, the Court will dismiss the
Does.” Defendants note that on May 31, 2024, the Court issued a minute order
providing, inter alia, that “[p]roof of service or a dismissal has not
been filed as to the doe defendants as of this date. Pursuant to the Case
Management Order filed February 26, 2024 the does are dismissed this date as
follows: The Court orders Doe(s) 1 through 20, inclusive, in Complaint filed by
ADRIANA AGUILAR on 10/26/2023 dismissed without prejudice.” 
Defendants assert that
“[n]early two months later, on July 29, 2024, in apparent disregard of the
Court’s May 31, 2024 order, Plaintiff filed an amendment form, purportedly
renaming one of the already-dismissed Doe defendants as Sonia Hernandez.”
(Opp’n at p. 8:7-9.) On July 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint
naming Sonia Hernandez in place of Doe 1. Plaintiff does not appear to address
this point in the reply. However, the foregoing argument appears to concern the
deficiency of Plaintiff’s July 29, 2024 Amendment to
Complaint, not Plaintiff’s instant motion for leave to file the FAC to include,
inter alia, Sonia Hernandez as a defendant. 
Defendants also argue
that “Plaintiff’s delayed amendment would prejudice Defendants.” (Opp’n at p.
16:6.) Defendants assert that “[t]he amendment will require, at minimum,
another deposition of Plaintiff and additional written discovery, which will
impose additional costs on Defendants.” (Opp’n at p. 16:9-11.) Defendants also argue
that “given the admissions from her deposition, Defendants have told Plaintiff
that they are preparing a summary judgment motion. With the current trial date,
the latest day that this motion could be heard in this Department is March 13,
2025, and the motion must be filed and served during the week of December 19,
2024. However, creating a situation where Defendants would be required to
resume discovery and postpone their summary judgment motion until the last
possible moment is itself prejudicial since this will create likely issues in
securing one of the limited number of hearing dates and force Defendants to
incur expenses to prepare for trial that could be avoided if the motion was
heard and granted earlier.” (Opp’n at p. 16:16-24.) In addition, Defendants
argue that “the earliest available hearing date for a demurrer…is currently
December 11, 2024 (and will likely be even later once a demurrer is drafted).
This will almost certainly be after the last possible date to file a motion for
summary judgment.” (Opp’n at p. 17:5-9, emphasis omitted.) 
In the reply, Plaintiff counters
that granting leave to amend will not severely prejudice Defendants. Plaintiff
asserts that “Defendants will still be within their timeframe to file a motion
for summary judgment/adjudication, trial is currently seven (7) months away,
and Defendant has deposed Plaintiff and the third-party witness who provided
notice that Sonia Hernandez created a particular risk of harm. On the other
hand, the amendments are necessary because Plaintiff seeks to include all
causes of action to ensure to hold the same Defendant accountable for its
negligence.” (Reply at p. 7:5-9.)
Defendants also argue that Plaintiff’s counsel’s supporting
declaration “consists of inadmissible evidence that lacks foundation and
contradicts Plaintiff’s own testimony,” such that “Plaintiff fails to establish
that justice will be served by the amendment.” (Opp’n at pp. 10:19; 14:5-6.) In
addition, Defendants argue that “Plaintiff’s motion should be denied because
the amendment is futile.” (Opp’n at p. 17:19.) However, the Court does not find
that the asserted legal deficiency of the proposed FAC warrants
denial of leave to amend. (See Kittredge Sports
Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213
Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048 [“the preferable practice would be to permit the
amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by demurrer,
motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate proceedings”]¿.)
However, in light of Plaintiff’s failure to comply with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1324,
subdivision (b), the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion without prejudice.  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for leave to file a first amended
complaint is denied without prejudice.   
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
DATED:  September 25, 2024                                    
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court


