 Case Number:  23STCV24386    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 







HILDA BENNETT, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
HUGO RODRIGUEZ, et al., 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV24386




Hearing Date:


September 25, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
PLAINTIFFS’
  MOTION FOR INTERLOCUTORY JUDGMENT, AND APPOINTMENT OF PARTITION REFEREE; 
 
DEMURRER TO
  ANSWER OF CROSS-DEFENDANTS HILDA BENNETT, YOLANDA TELLEZ AND GUSTAVO
  RODRIGUEZ




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



 
Background
On October 5, 2023, Plaintiffs Hilda Bennett, an individual; Hilda R Bennett,
Trustee of the B and H Family Trust; Yolanda Tellez; and Gustavo Rodriguez (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”) filed a Verified Complaint for Partition by Sale of Real Property
in this action against Defendant Hugo Rodriguez. The Complaint alleges one
cause of action for partition of real property. 
In the Complaint, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that “[t]he
real property that is the subject of this action and for which partition is sought
is located in Los Angeles County, California, and is commonly known as 3225
Winter Street, Los Angeles, CA 90063 (the ‘Property’).” (Compl., ¶ 2.) “Plaintiffs
and Defendants are all siblings, and all share ownership in the Property
located at 3225 Winter Street, Los Angeles, CA 90063 as tenants-in-common, each
with an undivided 25% interest.” (Compl., ¶ 12.) “In 2004 Rosario Rodriguez (‘Rosario’),
the Parties mother, transferred title of the ‘Property’ to the Parties with the
understanding that upon the Rosario’s death the Property would be sold and the
proceeds would be divided between the Parties.” (Compl., ¶ 13.)
Plaintiffs allege that “Defendant has been living in, and continues to
live in, the Property.” (Compl., ¶ 14.) “After Rosario’s death, Defendant
advised Plaintiffs that he wanted to buy the Property and buyout the other
three Siblings’ interest in the Property.” (Compl., ¶ 15.) “The Property was
appraised to determine a fair price for all. The appraisal determined the fair
price to be $570,000.00.” (Compl., ¶ 16.) “Despite talks and negotiations among
the siblings, a solution was not reached for Defendant to buy out the
Plaintiffs.” (Compl., ¶ 17.) Plaintiffs allege that they “are seeking partition
by sale since physical division is not feasible.” (Compl., ¶ 19.)
On April 3, 2024, Hugo A. Rodriguez aka Antonio H. Rodriguez as
Trustee of the Hugo A. Rodriguez aka Antonio H. Rodriguez and Antonio H.
Rodriguez Trust filed the operative First Amended Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants
Hilda Bennett, an individual; Hilda R. Bennett, Trustee of the B and H Bennett
Family Trust; and Yolanda Tellez, alleging causes of action for (1) conversion
and (2) negligence. On May 6, 2024, Hilda R Bennett, Yolanda Tellez, and
Gustavo Rodriguez (collectively, “Cross-Defendants”) filed a Verified Answer to
First Amended Cross-Complaint.  
Plaintiffs now move “for an Interlocutory Judgement (1) ordering the
partition of the real property located at 3225 Winter Street, Los Angeles, CA
90063 (the ‘Property’); and (2) ordering the appointment of a partition referee
to conduct the marketing and sale of the Property…” Hugo Rodriguez (“Rodriguez”)
opposes. 
In addition, Rodriguez appears to demur to Cross-Defendants’ Verified
Answer to First Amended Cross-Complaint. Plaintiffs oppose.  
Plaintiffs’ Motion for Interlocutory Judgment and Appointment of
Partition Referee
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
872.720, subdivision (a), cited by Plaintiffs, “[i]f the court finds that
the plaintiff is entitled to partition, it shall make an interlocutory judgment
that determines the interests of the parties in the property and orders the
partition of the property and, unless it is to be later determined, the manner
of partition.” 
In the motion, Plaintiffs assert that “[t]he Property is owned equally
as joint tenants by Plaintiffs and Defendant, all siblings, each holding a 25%
interest. There is no controversy over the ownership interests of the parties.”
(Mot. at p. 3:5-7.) In her supporting declaration, Plaintiffs’ counsel states
that “Plaintiffs are title owners and co-tenants along with Defendant of that
certain real property located at 3225 Winter Street, Los Angeles, CA 90063…each
with a 25% interest.” (Shahar Decl., ¶ 2.)[1] As
discussed, Plaintiffs seek an interlocutory judgment ordering the partition of
the property located at 3225 Winter Street, Los Angeles, CA 90063. 
In the opposition, Rodriguez argues, inter alia, that “the
motion for interlocutory judgment is premature…” (Opp’n at p. 2:5.) 
The Court agrees that the instant motion is premature. Trial has not
occurred, and the Court has not yet determined whether Plaintiffs have a right
to partition. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 872.710, subdivision (a), “[a]t the trial, the court shall
determine whether the plaintiff has the right to partition.” As discussed, Code of Civil Procedure section 872.720, subdivision
(a) provides that “[i]f the court finds that the plaintiff is entitled to
partition, it shall make an interlocutory judgment that determines the
interests of the parties in the property and orders the partition of the
property and, unless it is to be later determined, the manner of partition.” Viewed
together, Code of Civil Procedure section 872.710,
subdivision (a) and Code of Civil Procedure
section 872.720, subdivision (a) demonstrate that the Court may “make an
interlocutory judgment that determines the interests of the parties in the
property and orders the partition of the property” once the Court determines
whether the plaintiff has the right to partition “[a]t the trial…” (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 872.710, subd. (a); 872.720, subd.
(a).) 
In addition, Code of Civil Procedure section 872.610
provides that “[t]he interests of the parties, plaintiff as well as defendant,
may be put in issue, tried, and determined in the action.” In Bacon v. Wahrhaftig (1950) 97 Cal.App.2d 599, 603, the Court of Appeal found
that “[i]n the instant case, plaintiff has alleged facts from which it clearly
appears that plaintiff is a cotenant with the other owners of the fee
title in the property involved. As such cotenant, plaintiff may be
entitled to partition and if so, may be entitled to have his rights, as well as
those of defendants having interests in the property, put in issue, tried and
determined…No partition can be had until the interests of all the parties have
been ascertained and settled by a trial.” 
In light of the foregoing, the Court denies Plaintiffs’ motion for
interlocutory judgment and appointment of partition referee. 
Rodriguez’s Demurrer 
“A party against whom an
answer has been filed may object, by demurrer as provided in¿¿Section 430.30¿, to the answer upon any one or more of
the following grounds: (a)¿The answer does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a defense. (b)¿The answer is uncertain.
As used in this subdivision, ‘uncertain’ includes ambiguous and unintelligible.
(c)¿Where the answer pleads a contract, it cannot be ascertained from
the answer whether the contract is written or oral.” (¿Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.20¿.) Every affirmative defense “¿shall be separately
stated, and the several defenses shall refer to the causes of action which they
are intended to answer, in a manner by which they may be intelligibly
distinguished.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 431.30, subd. (g)¿.) 
“¿Demurring to an answer
is a commonly recognized practice. Unlike the usual general demurrer to a
complaint the inquiry is not into the statement of a cause of action. Instead
it is whether the answer raises a defense to the plaintiff’s stated cause of action.
A general demurrer raises the objection that the answer does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a defense…¿” (Timberidge
Enterprises, Inc. v. City of Santa Rosa (1978) 86 Cal.App.3d 873, 879-880 [internal citations, quotations, and
emphasis omitted]¿.) 
In the demurrer,
Rodriguez states that he “filed a First Amended Cross-Complaint alleging causes
of action for negligence and conversion against Cross-Defendants Hilda Bennett,
Yolanda Tellez, and Gustavo Rodriguez.” (Demurrer at p. 2:24-27.) Rodriguez
asserts that “Cross-Defendants’ Answer is inadequate and insufficient as it
fails to properly respond to the material allegations, includes improper
general denials, and asserts boilerplate affirmative defenses without factual
support along with the pleading requirements…” (Demurrer at pp. 2:27-3:2.) 
As an initial matter, in
the opposition, Plaintiffs assert that the demurrer is untimely and should be
overruled. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.40,
subdivision (b), “[a] party who has filed a complaint or cross-complaint
may, within 10 days after service of the answer to his pleading, demur to the
answer.” As discussed, on May 6, 2024, Hilda R Bennett, Yolanda Tellez,
and Gustavo Rodriguez filed a Verified Answer to First Amended
Cross-Complaint. The proof of service attached to the answer states that
the answer was served by electronic transmission on May 6, 2024. Ten days after
May 6, 2024 is May 16, 2024. 
Plaintiffs assert that accordingly, “Cross-Complainant was required to file a demurrer by May 16, 2024.”
(Opp’n at p. 3:25-26.) As noted by Plaintiffs, Rodriguez’s instant demurrer was
filed on June 10, 2024. It does not appear that Rodriguez filed any reply in
support of the demurrer. Thus, Rodriguez does not dispute Plaintiffs’ point
that the demurrer is untimely. 
In light of the
foregoing, the Court overrules Rodriguez’s demurrer “to the Answer of
Cross-Defendants Hilda Bennett, Yolanda Tellez and Gustavo Rodriguez to the
Cross-Complaint.” 
Conclusion 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court denies Plaintiffs’ motion for interlocutory
judgment and appointment of partition referee. 
The
Court overrules Rodriguez’s
demurrer “to the Answer of Cross-Defendants Hilda Bennett, Yolanda Tellez and
Gustavo Rodriguez to the Cross-Complaint.”  
Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of this ruling.   
 
DATED:  September 25, 2024                  ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


