  Case Number:  24VECV00405    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  W SHAHROKH
MOKHTARZADEH v. SIGAL SHERMAN, et al.
 
defendants’
motion to compel arbitration, stay action, and for award of attorney fees and
costs
 
Date of Hearing:        July
3, 2024                                        Trial Date:       None
Department:              W                                                        Case No.:        24VECV00405
 
Moving Party:            Defendants
Joseph Sherman and Sigal Sherman 
Responding Party:     Plaintiff
Shahrokh Mokhtarzadeh, a Professional Corporation 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On January 30, 2024, Plaintiff Shahrokh
Mokhtarzadeh, a Professional Corporation filed a complaint against Joseph
Sherman and Sigal Sherman for open book, account stated, quantum
meruit/reasonable value for services provided, breach of contract, and common
counts. Plaintiff alleges Plaintiff and Defendants entered into a retainer
agreement whereby Plaintiff was to provide Defendants with legal
representation. Although Plaintiff rendered services that were partially paid
for, Plaintiff alleges there is a balance on the account in the amount of
$327,602. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants Joseph Sherman and Sigal
Sherman’s Motion to Compel Arbitration, Stay Action, and for Award of Attorney
Fees and Costs is MOOT. 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Defendants Joseph Sherman and Sigal
Sherman move this court for an order to compel Plaintiff Shahrokh Mokhtarzadeh,
a Professional Law Corporation to submit its claims against the Shermans to
binding arbitration, stay this action pending the completion of arbitration, and
award $2,700.00 in attorney fees and $60 in costs to the Shermans to reimburse
them for the fees and costs incurred in connection with the instant motion. The
Shermans seek attorney fees due to Plaintiff’s retracting their agreement to go
to arbitration. 
 
Plaintiff filed a notice of
non-opposition to Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration. Defendants,
however, oppose Defendants’ request for imposition of monetary sanctions.  Plaintiff asserts there is no basis for
imposition of any monetary sanctions as Plaintiff sought to proceed on
arbitration on three separate occasions, which Defendants refused and Defendants
have repeatedly refused to proceed with discovery on this matter. Moreover, Plaintiff
was forced to bring this action before the four-year statute of limitations had
run. 
 
The court denies the request for
attorney fees. It is true “’a party who prevails on a petition to compel
arbitration has an immediate right to make a claim for the attorney fees [s]he
incurred in getting the trial court to move the controversy to arbitration.’ (Acosta,
supra, 150 Cal.App.4th at p. 1132, 58 Cal.Rptr.3d 865.)” (Benjamin, Weill
& Mazer v. Kors (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 40, 79.) However, the court
finds Plaintiff’s position that it was defendant who made it difficult to go to
arbitration supported by the record.  
 
Defendants Joseph Sherman and Sigal
Sherman’s Motion to Compel Arbitration, Stay Action, and for Award of Attorney
Fees and Costs is MOOT. 
 