  Case Number:  LC107514    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  W RONNIE DEWAYNE LEWIS V. NORTH HILLS
VILLAGE APARTMENTS
 
defendants’ motion to strike or, in the
alternative, to tax costs
 
Date of Hearing:        October
30, 2023                                          Trial Date:       None set.  
Department:              W                                                                    Case
No.:        LC107514
 
Moving Party:            Defendants North Hills Village Apartments, LLC, J.K. Residential
Services, Inc., and H.K. Realty, Inc.
Responding Party:     Plaintiff Ronnie Dewayne Lewis 
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a habitability action. Plaintiff Ronnie Dewayne Lewis and
defendants entered into a lease agreement. During plaintiff’s tenancy,
plaintiff alleges the property was uninhabitable including issues with
electricity, plumbing, and mechanical issues as well as failed to provide
plaintiff with a mailbox as required by law. 
 
On July 13, 2018, plaintiff filed a lawsuit against North Hills Village Apartments, LLC, J.K. Residential
Services, Inc., and H.K. Realty, Inc. asserting causes of action for (1) breach
of common law warranty of habitability; (2) breach of the covenant of quiet
enjoyment; (3) intentional private nuisance; (4) negligence; (5) fraud; (6) negligent
maintenance of the premises; and (7) unlawful business practices in violation of
BP 17200 et seq. and CC §1942.4. 
 
[Tentative] Ruling
 
Defendants’ Motion to Strike or, in the alternative, to Tax Costs
is DENIED. 
 
discussion
 
Defendants North Hills Village Apartments,
LLC, J.K. Residential Services, Inc., and H.K. Realty, Inc. move the court for
an order striking the costs contained in Plaintiff’s Memorandum of Costs or, in
the alternative, taxing the costs contained therein on the grounds   it is untimely and the costs are unnecessary. 
 
“Before the judgment is fully satisfied
but not later than two years after the costs have been incurred, the judgment
creditor claiming costs under this section shall file a memorandum of costs
with the court clerk and serve a copy on the judgment debtor.” (CCP §¿685.070(b).)

 
Defendants first argue the court should
strike the entire Memorandum of Costs as untimely and cite to California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1700. However, Rule 3.1700 deals with prejudgment costs. As
noted by Plaintiff, the costs sought are postjudgment costs and Rule 3.1700
does not apply. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 685.070(b), a
memorandum of post judgment costs may be filed “before the judgment is
fully satisfied but not later than two years after costs have been
incurred.” The instant filing is still within the two-year deadline. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues rather
Defendants’ motion is untimely. “Within 10 days after the memorandum of costs
is served on the judgment debtor, the judgment debtor may apply to the court on
noticed motion to have the costs taxed by the court. The notice of motion shall
be served on the judgment creditor. Service shall be made personally or by
mail. The court shall make an order allowing or disallowing the costs to the
extent justified under the circumstances of the case.” (CCP § 685.070(c).) The
ten-day period is extended under Code of Civil Procedure section¿1013 when the
memorandum of costs was served by mail. (CCP § 685.070(f).) 
 
First, the court notes there appears to
be a discrepancy between the Memorandum of Costs the parties are referring to
and what is on file with the court. Either way, the motion to tax costs is
untimely. The parties provide a Memorandum of Costs dated July 17, 2023. Ten
days plus five additional days for mail service places the deadline for this
motion on August 1, 2023. Defendants filed this motion September 12, 2023. The
Memorandum of Costs on file with this court was filed August 22, 2023. Ten days
plus five additional days for mail service places the deadline for this motion
on September 6, 2023. Again, untimely. “There are no exceptions to the
statutory rule that if no motion to tax costs is made within the 10-day
statutory time period the costs claimed in the memorandum are allowed, and the
language of the rule is mandatory.” (Lucky United Properties Investment,
Inc. v. Lee (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 125, 146.) Accordingly, as the time to
file a motion challenging the memorandum of costs has passed, the costs therein
must be allowed. 
 
Defendants next argue this court should
disallow the costs claimed by Plaintiff as not reasonable or necessary.
Specifically, Defendants contend the costs are unreasonable and unnecessary as Defendants
have filed a notice of appeal and posted an undertaking. However, Defendants
provide no authority for this contention. However, the court notes “[a]
postjudgment order which awards or denies costs or attorney's fees is
separately appealable.” (Silver v. Pacific American Fish Co., Inc.
(2010) 190 Cal.App.4th 688, 693.)
 
Accordingly, Defendants’
Motion to Strike or, in the alternative, to Tax Costs is DENIED. 
 