  Case Number:  22SMCV00209    Hearing Date:   June 14, 2024    Dept:  N TENTATIVE RULINGDefendants Yuan Shi aka Henry Shi, AI List Capital GP 1, LLC, and AI List Capital 1, LP’s Motion to Bifurcate Trial is DENIED without prejudice.Defendant Yuan Shi aka Henry Shi’s Motion for Reconsideration and/or to Bifurcate Liability and Damages is DENIED.Plaintiff David Carter’s Motion for Terminating Sanctions is DENIED. Moving parties to give notice. REASONINGDefendants Yuan Shi aka Henry Shi, AI List Capital GP 1, LLC, and AI List Capital 1, LP’s Motion to Bifurcate Trial Defendants Yuan Shi aka Henry Shi, AI List Capital GP 1, LLC, and AI List Capital 1, LP (“Defendants”) move the Court for an order bifurcating the trial to (1) have a bench trial on Defendants’ defenses of statute of limitations and consent prior to a jury trial on all remaining issues, (2) have a bench trial on Defendants’ defense of statute of limitations prior to a jury trial on all remaining issues, or (3) have a bench trial on Defendants’ defense of consent prior to a jury trial on all remaining issues. Plaintiff David Carter (“Plaintiff”) opposes the motion on the ground that these issues must be tried to a jury.Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1048, subdivision (b), “[t]he court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate trials will be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial of any cause of action, including a cause of action asserted in a cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action or issues, preserving the right of trial by jury required by the Constitution or a statute of this state or of the United States.”  This motion to bifurcate is premature, as the Court generally considers and rules on bifurcation motions on the date of the Final Status Conference. Accordingly, Defendants Yuan Shi aka Henry Shi, AI List Capital GP 1, LLC, and AI List Capital 1, LP’s Motion to Bifurcate Trial is DENIED without prejudice.Defendant Yuan Shi aka Henry Shi’s Motion for Reconsideration and/or to Bifurcate Liability and DamagesRequest for Judicial NoticeDefendant Yuan Shi aka Henry Shi (“Shi”) requests judicial notice of six court records in the present action. Shi’s request is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (d).AnalysisDefendant moves the Court to reconsider its order dated November 15, 2023, which granted Plaintiff’s Motion for Financial Discovery. Code of Civil Procedure section 1008, subdivision (a), allows a Court to reconsider a prior order as follows:When an application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.In the motion, Plaintiff sought discovery of Shi’s financial condition, including his net worth, income, investments, assets, and the value of his ownership and profit sharing interests in various entities, on the ground there was a substantial probability Plaintiff will prevail on his claim for punitive damages in this action. The Court noted that Plaintiff was asserting claims for violation of Civil Code section 3344 and misappropriation of name and likeness include prayers for punitive damages against Shi (see First Am. Compl. ¶¶ 29, 36), and Plaintiff had provided evidence that Shi knowingly used Plaintiff’s identity without his consent to raise funds from investors, there was a direct connection between the use of Plaintiff’s identity and the commercial purpose, Shi refused to respond to discovery seeking the identity of investors such that issue sanctions were granted against Shi on the issue of whether investors relied on the decks containing Plaintiff’s likeness, and Plaintiff had been damaged. While Shi argued that Plaintiff had failed to provide clear and convincing evidence that Shi received a commercial advantage from using his likeness, the Court relied on the issue sanction in Plaintiff’s favor as to “whether all of the investors in AI List Capital 1, LP relied on the Powerpoint decks containing Plaintiff’s name, photo and biograph in making their investments in AI List Capital 1, LP.” As to whether Plaintiff had shown that Shi acted with malice, Plaintiff had provided evidence that Shi used Plaintiff’s identity without his consent, holding him out as a partner in AI List, and he used Plaintiff’s identity to raise funds without his knowledge, which demonstrated that Shi acted with the intent to cause financial injury to Plaintiff, i.e., obtaining profits using Plaintiff’s likeness while concealing this from Plaintiff so he would not be required to share profits with him.Shi now argues that newly discovered facts reveal that Plaintiff knew about the use of his image since January 2018, and he gave his consent and requested that the PowerPoint presentation feature Plaintiff’s company. (Mot., Lan Decl. ¶ 3; Qian Decl. ¶ 7; An Decl. ¶ 5.) Thus, Shi contends that Plaintiff cannot succeed in his claim for punitive damages.Notably, “[the burden under [Code of Civil Procedure] section 1008 is comparable to that of a party seeking a new trial on the ground of newly discovered evidence: the information must be such that the moving party could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced it at the trial.” (New York Times Co. v. Superior Court (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 206, 212-213.) The Court cannot conclude that Shi could not have obtained this evidence before the motion was filed, and Shi made no representation in opposition that further discovery was necessary to oppose the motion. In his reply, Shi states simply that he had no reason to know or suspect that Plaintiff spoke to Lan or An because he has maintained that he had not heard of AI List until 2021, but he does not explain why he could not have submitted the declaration of Kun Qian, an individual who collaborated with Shi on the AI List presentation deck, earlier, and Shi could have obtained the subject information from all three individuals and presented it earlier by simply communicating with employees who worked with AI List to learn whether they spoke to Plaintiff.The Court cannot conclude that Shi could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered or produced these declarations in opposition to Plaintiff’s earlier motion. For that reason, Defendant Yuan Shi aka Henry Shi’s Motion for Reconsideration and/or to Bifurcate Liability and Damages is DENIED.Plaintiff David Carter’s Motion for Terminating SanctionsPlaintiff moves the Court for the Court for an order imposing terminating sanctions against Defendants for failure to comply with court orders and for monetary sanctions in the amount of $11,120.00 because Defendants have not acted with substantial justification.If a party engages in the misuse of the discovery process, the court may impose sanctions including terminating, evidence, and monetary sanctions. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (d).) Disobeying a court order to provide discovery is a misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (g).) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery also constitutes a misuse of the discovery process. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d).)“The trial court has broad discretion in selecting discovery sanctions, subject to reversal only for abuse.” (Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967, 992 (Doppes).) “[T]wo facts are absolutely prerequisite to imposition of the sanction: (1) there must be a failure to comply and (2) the failure must be willful.” (Liberty Mut. Fire Ins. Co. v. LcL Adm’rs, Inc. (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1093, 1102, ellipsis omitted.) “A decision to order terminating sanctions should not be made lightly. But where a violation is willful, preceded by a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in imposing the ultimate sanction.” (Doppes, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at p. 992.)While Plaintiff has failed to comply with the Court’s prior orders, the Court finds that terminating sanctions are not warranted at this juncture. First, terminating sanctions are a drastic remedy, and the California discovery statutes provide “an incremental approach to discovery sanctions” (Doppes, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th at p. 992), such that it would be improper for the Court to jump from an order entering an order compelling Defendants to provide certain financial discovery to terminating sanctions, as Plaintiff asks the Court to do, because this does not represent the incremental approach contemplated by California law. The Court focuses its analysis only on the financial discovery, as the failure to comply with the July 26, 2022 and August 2, 2022 orders have already resulted in consequences to Defendants with issue sanctions. The Court also does not consider the failure to pay monetary sanctions, as this is not a proper basis for terminating sanctions, i.e., nonpayment of monetary sanctions does not show a failure to provide discovery.In opposition to this motion, Defendants represent that they have produced all requested documents, including limited partnership agreements, investment contracts, and investor updates. (Opp’n, Shi Decl. ¶ 3.) Plaintiff argues that Defendants only produced records from 2018, 2019, December 2022, and December 2023, and those records have redactions. Plaintiff also argues that certain contracts with large companies and communications with certain companies have not been produced. The Court cannot order the production of documents which Defendants represent do not exist, but the Court agrees that redactions were improper. Defendants shall produce any relevant documents, unredacted, within ten (10) days of entry of this order or face further sanctions. Nonetheless, at this juncture, Plaintiff David Carter’s Motion for Terminating Sanctions is DENIED.