 Case Number:  23NWCV02995    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  C DOE v. BELLFLOWER UNIFIED SCHOOL
DISTRICT 
CASE NO.:  23NWCV02995 
HEARING:  05/09/24
 
#8
 
Defendant BELLFLOWER UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT’s Demurrer to
Plaintiff’s Complaint is OVERRULED. 
 
Opposing Party to give notice. 
 
This sexual misconduct action was filed on September 19,
2023. Plaintiff JANE MH DOE (“Plaintiff”) alleges that “[d]uring Plaintiff’s 8th
grade year at BMS, Plaintiff had BARRETT as her assigned teacher for one of her
classes. From the beginning of the school year in fall of 2002, BARRETT began
to sexually groom Plaintiff while she was in his class at BMS. His conduct
included, but was not limited to, the following: BARRETT rubbed his fingers
through Plaintiff’s hair, repeatedly said to Plaintiff, ‘You’re so cute,’
repeatedly told Plaintiff that he wanted to take her picture, made a music CD
containing love songs that were sexual in nature, and repeatedly asked
Plaintiff to stay after school with him. Unfortunately, one day, Plaintiff was
in BARRETT’s classroom alone and BARRETT took advantage. He put his arm around
Plaintiff and groped her breast. Plaintiff tried to pull away; however, BARRETT
continued, and groped her breast again. Plaintiff was shocked and horrified.”
(Complaint ¶15.) 
 
Plaintiff’s Complaint asserts the following causes of
action: 
 
(1) Sexual
Battery; 
(2) Sexual
Assault;
(3) Gender
Violence; 
(4) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress; 
(5) Negligence;

(6) Negligent
Supervision; 
(7) Negligent
Hiring and Retention; 
(8) Negligent
Failure to Warn, Train, or Educate 
 
Defendant BELLFLOWER UNIFIED SCHOOL DISTRICT generally
demurs to fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, and eighth causes of action. 
 
Childhood
Sexual Abuse Claims
 
Under
CCP section 340.1, as amended by Assembly Bill No. 218 (“AB 218”), in an action
for recovery of damages suffered as a result of childhood sexual assault, the
time for commencement of the action shall be within 22 years of the date the
plaintiff attains the age of majority or within five years of the date the
plaintiff discovers or reasonably should have discovered that psychological
injury or illness occurring after the age of majority was caused by the sexual
assault, whichever period expires later, for any of the following actions: (1)
an action against any person for committing an act of childhood sexual assault;
or (2) an action for liability against any person or entity who owed a duty of
care to the plaintiff, if a wrongful or negligent act by that person or entity
was a legal cause of the childhood sexual assault that resulted in the injury
to the plaintiff.  (CCP § 340.1, subd. (a)(1)-(2).)
 
AB
218 also amended the provision that lists exceptions to the Government Claims
Act, Government Code section 905, by removing language in subdivision (m) that
limited the exception to claims arising out of conduct that occurred on or
after January 2009 and adding subdivision (p), which made this change
retroactive.  (See Coats v. New Haven Unified School District
(2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 415, 424 (“Coats”); Gov. Code § 905, subds. (m),
(p).)   
 
Article
XVI, section 6 of the California Constitution (“the Anti-Gift Provision”)
provides, in relevant part: “The Legislature shall have no power to give or to
lend, or to authorize the giving or lending, of the credit of the State, or of
any county, city and county, city, township or other political corporation or
subdivision of the State now existing, or that may be hereafter established, in
aid of or to any person, association, or corporation, whether municipal or
otherwise, or to pledge the credit thereof, in any manner whatever, for the
payment of the liabilities of any individual, association, municipal or other
corporation whatever; nor shall it have power to make any gift or authorize the
making of any gift, of any public money or thing of value to any individual,
municipal or other corporation whatever… .”  (Cal. Const., art. XVI, § 6.) 
 
Defendant
District argues that the portion of AB 218 that retroactively exempts childhood
sexual abuse claims from the Government Claims Act is unconstitutional with
respect to public entities and constitutes an impermissible gift of public
funds.  Compliance with the Government Claims Act is a substantive
prerequisite to stating a claim for money damages against a public
entity.  (See State of California v. Superior Court (2004) 32
Cal.4th 1234, 1240-41.)   
 
Defendant
District’s argument turns on the distinction between the nature of the statutes
of limitation for childhood sexual abuse cases and the substantive requirements
of the Government Claims Act for stating a claim against a government
entity.   
 
The
Court finds that the effect of AB 218 in amending the Government Claims Act to
add an exemption for claims of the type alleged herein does not constitute a
“gift of public money or thing of value” within the meaning of the Anti-Gift
Provision of the Constitution.  As the California Supreme Court held in Heron
v. Riley (1930) 209 Cal. 509, 517: 
 
We are not strongly
impressed with the contention of the respondent that the application of funds
to pay judgments obtained against the state constitutes a gift of public money,
within the prohibition of the Constitution.  The state cannot be subjected
to suits against itself express by its express consent; but it may surrender
its sovereignty in that particular.  The judgments which are to be paid
bear no semblance to gifts.  They must first be obtained in courts of
competent jurisdiction, to which the parties have submitted their claims in the
manner directed by law.  In other words, they are judgments obtained after
the requirements of due process of law have been complied with.” 
 
Here,
AB 218 did not create an obligation on the part of a governmental agency to pay
a claim made by Plaintiff.  In order for Plaintiff to recover money from
Defendant District, Plaintiff must first obtain a judgment in this case. 
This would not be a gift of public funds.   
 
Based
on the foregoing, the Court is not persuaded by Defendant District’s argument
that the retroactive elimination of the claim presentation requirement for
childhood sexual abuse claims that arose before 2009 in AB 218 is
unconstitutional under the Anti-Gift Provision.  
 
The
Demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
 