 Case Number:  22STCV04425    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  C BRADY v. DOE 1 
CASE NO.:  22STCV04425 
HEARING:  05/09/24
 
#3
 
Defendants’ Motion to Seek Discovery Concerning Plaintiff’s
Sexual Conduct with Others Pursuant to CCP §2017.220 is GRANTED in part and
MOOT in part. 
 
Moving Party to give notice. 
 
This sexual assault action was filed by Plaintiff CONSTANCE
BRADY (“Plaintiff”) on February 4, 2022. On February 22, 2022, the operative
First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) was filed. 
 
The FAC alleges, in pertinent part: “Plaintiff is an adult
female…. At all times relevant to this Complaint, Plaintiff was residing in Los
Angeles County, California and San Bernardino County, California. Plaintiff was
born in 1971 and was a minor throughout the period of child sexual assault
alleged herein. Plaintiff brings this Complaint pursuant to [CCP §] 340.1… for
the childhood sexual assault she suffered at the hands of Defendants.” (FAC
¶2.) “Defendant CHARLES ‘CHUCK’ DRYLIE (‘Drylie’), the perpetrator… lived in
Los Angeles County during the period of time which the sexual abuse,
harassment, and molestation… took place. At all times mentioned herein,
Defendant Drylie was employed by, or otherwise an agent of, Defendant City….
Within the scope of his relationship with Defendant City, Defendant Drylie was
responsible for providing supervision, education, and counselling of minor
children, including Plaintiff….” (FAC ¶3.) “As a result of the above-described
conduct, Plaintiff has suffered and continues to suffer in many ways, including
but not limited to pain of mind and body, emotional distress, physical
manifestations of emotional distress, severe anxiety, post-traumatic stress,
depression, feelings of self-blame, shame, embarrassment, a lost sense of
trust, relationship and intimacy issues, and a sense of being tainted, and was
prevented and will continued to be prevented from performing daily activities
and obtaining the full enjoyment of life.” (FAC ¶59.) 
 
The FAC asserts the following causes of action: 


(1) Negligence;

(2) Negligent
Training and Supervision; 
(3) Sexual
Battery; 
(4) Sexual
Harassment; 
(5) Gender
Violence
 
Defendants CITY OF WHITTER (“City”) and CHARLES “CHUCK”
DRYLIE (collectively “Defendants”) move for an order seeking discovery
concerning Plaintiff’s sexual conduct with individuals other than the alleged
perpetrator pursuant to CCP §2017.220, and an order to seal portions of the
attached memorandum of points and authorities, as well as portions of the
concurrently filed Declaration of Katrina Valencia and certain exhibits
thereto. 
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff argues that rape shield laws
prevent Defendants’ blanket inquiry into Plaintiff’s sexual history; and that
Defendants have failed to establish good cause, relevance, and likelihood of
admissible evidence to conduct discovery into Plaintiff’s sexual history. Plaintiff
states that during meet and confer efforts, Plaintiff agreed to discovery of
the following, more narrowly tailored requests: (1) the identifies of specific
sexual partners; (2) the total number of sexual partners that Plaintiff has had
over her lifetime; (3) the specific sexual acts Plaintiff has engaged in, other
than the specific sex acts or positions that Plaintiff asserts contribute to
her damages; (4) the frequency that Plaintiff engages in sexual acts, other
than the specific sex acts or positions that Plaintiff asserts contribute to
her damages; and (5) Plaintiff’s sexual activity while a minor prior to being
sexually assaulted by Defendant Drylie. “Plaintiff has already agreed to
supplement discovery requests to identify specifically which sexual acts and
positions cause her trauma.” (Opp. 14:18-19) 
 
In Reply, Defendants indicate that Plaintiff supplemented
her responses to FI No. 6.2 and SI No. 73 on April 5, 2024 (after the Subject
Motion was filed). Defendants’ Proposed Order (filed in conjunction with the
Reply) indicates that Defendants now seek a “narrower” order permitting
discovery into the following topics: 
(1) Identities
of specific sexual partners; 
(2) Number
of sexual partners that Plaintiff has had; 
(3) Specific
sexual acts that Plaintiff engages in that cause her trauma and flashbacks; 
(4) Frequency
of engaging in specific sexual acts that Plaintiff engages in that cause her
trauma and flashbacks; 
(5) Discovery
concerning Plaintiff’s fear of being hugged from behind. 
 
On April 18, 2024, the Court CONTINUED this matter, and the
parties were ORDERED to further meet and confer and submit a Joint Statement. 
 
Pursuant to the Joint Statement filed on April 26, 2024, the
parties agree that the Defendants shall be permitted to conduct the following
inquiry and discovery concerning Plaintiff’s sexual conduct with individuals
other than Defendant Drylie:
1.   
Identities of plaintiff’s post-abuse intimate
partners who subjected her to physical and/or sexual abuse.
2.    Instances
and attempts at specific sexual acts that allegedly cause plaintiff trauma, and
frequency thereof.

3.   
Being Hugged from Behind, outside the context of
Sexual Intimacy.
 
The parties agree that the Defendants shall not be
permitted to conduct the following inquiry and discovery concerning Plaintiff’s
sexual conduct with individuals other than Defendant Drylie:
 
1.   
Identities of specific sexual partners, with
respect to sexual conduct other than the three specific acts that allegedly
cause her trauma.
2.   
Number of sexual partners that Plaintiff has
had, with respect to sexual conduct other than the three specific acts that
allegedly cause her trauma.
3.   
Specific sexual acts that Plaintiff engages in
that cause her trauma and flashbacks.
4.   
The frequency of engaging in specific sexual
acts that Plaintiff engages in, other than those sex acts or sex positions that
Plaintiff alleges cause her trauma and flashbacks.
 
Therefore, the Motion is rendered MOOT as to the aforementioned
issues resolved between the parties. 
 
The sole issue in dispute is whether Plaintiff should be
compelled to disclose the identities and total number of Plaintiff’s post-abuse
sexual partners with respect to the three specific sexual acts that allegedly cause
her trauma. 
 
Defendants argue that since Plaintiff alleges that the onset
of her sexual dysfunction began shortly after the first instance of sexual
abuse by Defendant Drylie in 1987, Plaintiff has opened the door to discovery
concerning alternative causes for her sexual dysfunction, and the extent of
such dysfunction, from 1987 to the present. 
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendants already have the identities
of Plaintiff’s current husband as well as her former husband, and Plaintiff
will be submitting to an independent mental evaluation, all of which provide
Defendants the opportunity to investigate Plaintiff’s claims beyond Plaintiff’s
own testimony.  Plaintiff argues that forcing
survivors of sexual assault to disclose every person they have slept with would
only serve to harass litigants and discourage survivors from filing these types
of lawsuits in the first place.
 
CCP §2017.220 is designed to guard against unwarranted
discovery concerning a plaintiff’s sexual conduct. The statute provides as
follows: “In any civil action alleging conduct that constitutes sexual
harassment, sexual assault, or sexual battery, any party seeking discovery
concerning the plaintiffs sexual conduct with individuals other than the
alleged perpetrator shall establish specific facts showing that there is good
cause for that discovery, and that the matter sought to be discovered is
relevant to the subject matter of the action and reasonably calculated to lead
to the discovery of admissible evidence. This showing shall be made by a
noticed motion, accompanied by a meet and confer declaration… and shall not be
made or considered by the court at an ex parte hearing.” (emphasis added) (CCP
§2017.220(a).) 
 
“A right to privacy was recognized in the seminal case of Griswold
v. Connecticut (1965) 381 U.S. 479…. It protects both the marital
relationship and the sexual lives of the unmarried. More significantly,
California accords privacy the constitutional status of an ‘inalienable right,’
on par with defending life and possessing property. California’s privacy
protection similarly embraces sexual relations. [Internal Citations Omitted.]”
(Vinson v. Sup. Ct. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 841.) “The mere fact that a
plaintiff has initiated an action seeking damages for extreme mental and
emotional distress arising out of conduct of a sexual nature does not ipso
facto provide ‘good cause’ for discovery of other sexual conduct. The issue is
resolved by balancing the right to privacy with the defendant’s right to
discovery.[Citations Omitted.]” (Barrenda L. v. Sup. Ct. (1998) 65
Cal.App.4th 794, 801.) “[E]ven when discovery of private information is found
directly relevant to the issues of ongoing litigation, it will not be automatically
allowed; there must be a ‘careful’ balancing of the ‘compelling public need’
for discovery against the ‘fundamental right of privacy.”’ (Board of
Trustees v. Sup. (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 516, 525.) While the filing of a
lawsuit “may implicitly bring about a partial waiver of one’s constitutional
right of associational privacy, the scope of such ‘waiver’ must be narrowly
rather than expansively construed, so that plaintiffs will not be unduly
deterred from instituting lawsuits by the fear of exposure of their private
associational affiliations and activities.” (Vinson v. Sup. Ct. (1987)
43 Cal.3d 833, 842.) However, “even though plaintiff retains certain unwaived
privacy rights, these rights are not necessarily absolute. On occasion her
privacy interests may have to give way to her opponent’s right to a fair
trial.” (Id.)
 
Defendants have shown that their need for the evidence at
issue overcomes Plaintiff’s constitutional right to privacy in this instance.
Plaintiff claims that the alleged sexual abuse caused by Drylie caused her to
experience trauma with respect to certain sex acts. Discovery concerning those
sex acts is relevant to this action.  Moreover,
Plaintiff has agreed to disclose “instances and attempts at specific sexual
acts that allegedly cause plaintiff trauma, and frequency thereof.”  The utility of such disclosures would be
marginal without more specific information regarding Plaintiff’s sexual
partners.  Here, as in Vinson,
“[P]laintiff haled defendants into court and accused them of causing her
various mental and emotional ailments…. As a result, the existence and extent
of her mental injuries is indubitably in dispute. [B]y asserting a causal link
between her mental distress and defendants’ conduct, plaintiff implicitly
claims it was not caused by a preexisting mental condition, thereby raising the
question of alternative sources for the distress. We thus conclude that her
mental state is in controversy.” (Id. at 839-840.) 
 
The Motion, as to the remaining issue identified by the
Joint Statement submitted by the parties, is GRANTED.  