  Case Number:  20STCV47947    Hearing Date:   October 14, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept. 30 
Calendar No.
Golan vs. Encino Villas
Condominium Association, Inc., et. al., Case
No. 20STCV47947
 
Tentative Ruling re:  Plaintiff’s Motion to Set Aside Dismissal
 
Amir Golan (Plaintiff) moves for an order to set aside the dismissal
entered by the Court on July 29, 2024, pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
sections 2023.010 and 2023.030, subdivision (d).  The motion is denied.
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 473, subdivision (b): “the court may, upon any terms as may be just,
relieve a party or his or her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal,
order, or other proceeding taken against him or her through his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect. Application
for this relief shall be accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading
proposed to be filed therein, otherwise the application shall not be granted,
and shall be made within a reasonable time, in no case exceeding six months,
after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.”
 
            Mandatory
relief from default or dismissal is available when fault of counsel is shown
through affidavit: “the court shall, whenever an application for relief is made
no more than six months after entry of judgment, is in proper form, and is
accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect, vacate any . . . resulting default judgment
or dismissal entered against his or her client, unless the court finds that the
default or dismissal was not in fact caused by the attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) 
 
A dismissal implementing a terminating sanction for
discovery abuse is a “dismissal entered” under section 473, subdivision (b). (Rodriguez
v. Brill (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 715, 719.) An application for relief from a
terminating discovery sanction is in proper form if “(1) verified discovery
responses are delivered to opposing counsel before the hearing on the
application for relief and (2) the content of those responses substantially
complies with applicable requirements.” (Id. at p. 719–720.) 
 
Plaintiff moves for relief from
dismissal based on the fault of Plaintiff’s counsel. Encino Villas Condominium Association, Inc. (Defendant)
opposes Plaintiff’s motion on the ground that Plaintiff’s failure to respond to
discovery requests resulted from gross carelessness rather than excusable
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. Since Plaintiff’s counsel has
submitted an affidavit attesting to his fault, the Court must grant relief
unless it finds that the dismissal was not in fact caused by counsel’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).)
 
Defendant filed a motion to compel
discovery responses on July 1, 2024. Plaintiff filed no opposition and did not
appear at the July 29 hearing on that matter. The Court dismissed Plaintiff’s
action that day pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030,
subdivision (d)(3), issuing a terminating sanction in response to Plaintiff’s
failure to respond to discovery requests. 
 
Plaintiff’s counsel contends that
a medical emergency is to blame for his failure to appear or oppose the motion.
Counsel suffered a serious injury and stroke on April 26, 2024. (Rudd Decl. ¶
3.) He did not realize the full extent of his injury until being admitted to
the hospital on June 24. (Ibid.) After subsequently contracting the flu,
counsel did not leave the hospital until July 4. (Id. ¶ 5.) He required
physical therapy and is only now resuming his practice full time. (Id. ¶
7.) Counsel claims that he could not file timely oppositions to the discovery
motions or appear at the hearing because of his injury, impairment, and
hospitalization. (Id. ¶ 8.) 
 
Plaintiff needed to file his
opposition by July 16, twelve days after counsel was released from the
hospital. Counsel did not notify the Court or Defendant of his situation. An
extension could have been granted with proper communication. Additionally,
other counsel has assisted Plaintiff in this matter. (Id. ¶ 7.)
Plaintiff is aware of counsel’s health issues. Thus, Plaintiff’s failure to
attend the hearing or oppose the motions to compel is not due to the excusable
neglect or mistake of counsel.
 
Additionally, to obtain relief
from a terminating discovery sanction Plaintiff must provide verified responses
which substantially comply with any applicable requirements before the hearing.
(Rodriguez, supra, at p. 719–720.) Plaintiff has not provided
these required responses. 
 