 Case Number:  BC709376    Hearing Date:   October 14, 2024    Dept:  30 Dept. 30 
Calendar No.
Sadeghi vs. Pinscreen
Inc., et. al., Case No. BC709376
 
Tentative Ruling
re:  Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash Business
Records Subpoena
 
            Dr. Iman
Sadeghi (Plaintiff) moves for an order to quash or modify Dr. Hao Li’s (Defendant)
deposition subpoena for production of business records issued to Google Inc.,
Plaintiff’s former employer. Alternatively, Plaintiff moves for a protective
order limiting the scope of requests 1–15 in the subpoena.  The motion is granted in part.
 
            As a
preliminary matter, Defendant contends that the present motion should be denied
because it was not timely filed. The Court tendered an order reopening
discovery for certain motions at the urging of Defendant on October 9, 2024. In
the interest of equity, the Court will reopen discovery for the purpose of
hearing Plaintiff’s motion to quash as well.
 
            Additionally,
Plaintiff does not contest Defendant’s subpoena as it relates to requests 16–26
regarding Plaintiff’s compensation while at Google. Thus, the Court will not
disturb the subpoena as to these documents.
 
A party may only discover matters, not privileged, that are relevant
to the subject matter involved in the pending action and that are either
admissible evidence or “reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)  Broad
discovery requests are not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.  (Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997)
53 Cal.App.4th 216, 224–225.) A court may make an order quashing a
subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with terms and
conditions such as protective orders. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)
 
Plaintiff argues that requests 1–15
infringe on Plaintiff’s right to privacy under the California Constitution. The
California Constitution ensures a right to privacy in Article 1, Section 1. Information
otherwise discoverable, even when highly relevant, may be shielded from
discovery if its disclosure would violate a person’s constitutional privacy
rights. (County of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2021) 65 Cal.App.5th
621, 639.) It is the burden of the party asserting the privacy interest to
“establish its extent and the seriousness of the prospective invasion, and
against that showing must weigh the countervailing interests the opposing party
identifies.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.)
“Obvious invasions of interests fundamental to personal autonomy must be
supported by a compelling interest.” (Ibid.) 
 
Defendants request performance and
disciplinary records (requests 2–5), documents related to complaints made about
Plaintiff (requests 9, 10, 12, and 13), documents related to complaints made by
Plaintiff (requests 6–8, 11), documents related to Plaintiff’s separation from
Google (requests 14 and 15), and Plaintiff’s personnel file and employee
records (request 1). With respect to each category of records, the Court will
first determine whether the information sought it relevant to the subject matter
involved in the pending action as required by section 2017.010. Next, the Court
will consider the extent and seriousness of the potential privacy invasion and
weigh the countervailing interests of the opposing party to determine if
discovery should be ordered. (Williams, supra, at p. 557.)
 
Performance and Disciplinary
Records
In requests 2–5, Defendant asks
Google to produce documents related to Plaintiff’s performance and disciplinary
records. (Davidson Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. A.) These include documents discussing
Plaintiff’s job performance, documents related to any issued performance
expectation plan, documents related to Plaintiff’s objections and key results,
and documents related to whether Plaintiff received any CMEs. (Ibid.) 
 
These documents are relevant to
Plaintiff’s claim for fraudulent inducement. Defendant may defeat this claim by
showing that Plaintiff did not “justifiably rely” on assertions made by
Defendant. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) If
Plaintiff’s disciplinary and performance records reflect that he faced imminent
termination at the time he ended his employment with Google, then he may have
sought other employment regardless of Defendant’s assertions. However, only
records from around the time Plaintiff left Google are relevant because earlier
disciplinary violations or negative performance reviews would not have induced
Plaintiff to leave Google.
 
Plaintiff asserts that he has a
privacy interest in these documents. The Court agrees. Disciplinary and
performance records are deeply personal and could reflect poorly on Plaintiff
if publicized. However, Defendant does have a significant countervailing
interest in this information to determine whether Plaintiff left Google because
of Defendant’s inducement, or because of uncertainty surrounding his future
employment at Google. Thus, the Court will allow these requests, provided that
the subpoena is limited to records within a year of Plaintiff leaving Google.
 
Documents Related to Complaints
Made about Plaintiff
In requests 9, 10, 12, and 13,
Defendant asks that Google produce documents related to any complaints made
about Plaintiff. (Davidson Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. A.) These include documents involving
complaints made by employees or third parties, documents involving
investigations conducted in response to complaints, and documents related to
investigation by Google. (Ibid.)
 
Defendant argues these documents
are relevant to its defense of Plaintiff’s claim for intentional infliction of
emotional distress. The Court disagrees. Defendant would be unable to justify
its firing of Plaintiff based on coworkers complaining about Plaintiff at a
previous job. Such character evidence is inadmissible to prove Plaintiff’s
quality on a specific occasion. (Evid. Code, § 1104.) Further, Plaintiff has a
strong privacy interest in these documents. Thus, the Court will not allow
these requests.
 
Documents Related to Complaints
Made by Plaintiff
In requests 6–8 and 11, Defendant
asks Google to produce documents related to complaints made by Plaintiff while
employed at Google. (Davidson Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. A.) These include documents
relating to complaints made by Plaintiff regarding his employment, other
employees, or any third party, and documents relating to any investigations
conducted by Google on Plaintiff’s behalf. (Ibid.) 
 
Defendant argues these documents
are relevant to show a pattern of behavior by Plaintiff, reducing the
credibility of his claims against Defendant. The Court disagrees. A pattern of
making complaints does not constitute admissible habit evidence under Evidence
Code section 1105. Additionally, Defendant argues that these complaints could
show a history of Plaintiff engaging in interpersonal workplace conflicts. This
evidence would likely not be relevant. Even if it were within the scope of
discovery, Plaintiff has a privacy interest in private complaints he made at
his previous workplace. Defendant has not demonstrated a countervailing
interest sufficient to override Plaintiff’s right to privacy. Thus, the Court
will not allow these requests.
 
Documents Relating to
Plaintiff’s Separation from Google
In requests 14 and 15, Defendant
asks Google to produce documents related to Plaintiff’s separation, including
any documents provided to Plaintiff on the day of his separation. (Ibid.)
These documents are relevant in the same way as disciplinary and performance
records. They can show whether Plaintiff relied on Defendant’s assertions when
leaving his previous job. While Plaintiff may have a privacy interest in the
details surrounding his employment’s end at Google, Defendant’s countervailing
interest is significant. Thus, the Court allows these requests.
 
Personnel File and Employee
Records
In request 1, Defendant asks Google
to produce Plaintiff’s personnel file, or any other employee file maintained by
them. This request is overbroad. Such a request likely includes information
that would be relevant to Defendant’s case. However, confidential personnel
files at a person’s place of employment are in a well-established zone of
privacy. (Board of Trustees of Leland Stanford Junior University v. Superior
Court (Dong) (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 516, 528–530.) Defendant does not
demonstrate a significant countervailing interest. Defendant claims that
information within Plaintiff’s file could rebut some of his claims regarding
pre-existing medical issues. But medical records are the clear source of such
information. The Court will not allow this overbroad request.
 