 Case Number:  23STCV27549    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action
Defendant
Inter-Con Security Systems, Inc. moves to compel arbitration of this action by
plaintiff Pollette Reyes. 
Evidentiary
Objections
            Plaintiff makes eight objections to
defendant’s evidence.  All eight
objections are overruled.
            Defendant makes five objections to
plaintiff’s evidence.  All five
objections are overruled.
Existence
of Agreement
            Plaintiff argues defendant did not
meet its burden of proving plaintiff signed the purported arbitration
agreement.  The party moving to compel
arbitration must establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement
between the parties.  (CCP §
1281.2.)  It can meet the “initial burden
to show an agreement to arbitrate by attaching a copy of the arbitration
agreement purportedly bearing the opposing party’s signature.”  (Espejo
v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th
1047, 1060 (Espejo).)  After the
opposing party “challenge[s] the validity of that signature” must the moving
party “establish by a preponderance of the evidence that the signature was
authentic.”  (Ibid.)  
An employer can meet its burden of proving the
employee signed an arbitration agreement using “a declaration from [its]
custodian of records.”  (Gamboa v.
Northeast Community Clinic (2021) 72 Cal.App.5th 158, 286
Cal.Rptr.3d 891, 901.)  “[T]he custodian of a document need not have
been present or employed when the document was created or signed to
authenticate a document in a company’s files.” 
(Iyere v. Wise Auto Group (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 747, 758.)
Plaintiff’s opposition incorrectly asserts the
employer must prove 10 different facts. 
(Opp., pp. 5-6.)  Plaintiff cites Fabian
v. Renovate America, Inc. (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 1062 (Fabian), which
explains: “ ‘[T]he burden of authenticating an electronic signature is not
great.’ ”  (Id. at p. 1067.)  “The party seeking authentication may carry
its burden ‘in any manner,’ including by presenting evidence of the contents of
the contract in question and the circumstances surrounding the contract’s
execution.”  (Id. at p. 1068.)  The court noted the defendant “offered no
evidence” about the six facts plaintiff lists. 
(Id. at p. 1069.)  That
does not mean proving those six items is necessary.  The same is true of the four purported elements
discussed in Espejo.  
Defendant meets its burden of proving, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that plaintiff electronically signed the
arbitration agreement.  Defendant
presents testimony by defendant’s assistant general counsel, Caitlin R.
Johnson.  Johnson testifies, “I am familiar
with the personnel matters of Inter-Con, including its arbitration agreement.  In this capacity, I am familiar with the
business operations of Inter-Con.  I am
also familiar with and responsible for maintaining personnel records.  I am a custodian of records for the personnel
files and, as such, I am familiar with and maintain the correspondence
informing employees of the arbitration agreement, and mailing lists containing
employees’ home and e-mail addresses to which correspondence about the
arbitration agreement have been sent.” 
(Johnson Decl., ¶ 1.)  She states,
“For purposes of making this Declaration, I reviewed documents contained in
Plaintiff’s personnel file, I reviewed documents contained in Plaintiff’s
personnel file, which Inter-Con made in the regular course of its business, at
or near the time of the act or event recorded in the document, by persons with
knowledge of those events, and it maintains in the regular course of business.”  (¶ 5.) 

Johnson testifies she has “working knowledge
of the process by which candidates for employment, including Plaintiff, applied
for the position she held with Inter-Con and thereafter proceeded through the
onboarding process.  This also includes
the onboarding process via Taleo, a third party cloud-based service through
which Plaintiff completed her onboarding.” 
(¶ 9.)  “In order to complete her
onboarding as an Inter-Con employee, Plaintiff set-up an account by creating a
username and a private password via Taleo’s secure website.  Taleo did not provide login credentials to
Inter-Con and Inter-Con could not and cannot log into Plaintiff’s account.”  (¶ 10.) 

Johnson testifies, “Inter-Con delivered the
Agreement to Plaintiff through the Taleo platform. Plaintiff then logged into
her password-protected account to review and electronically sign it by entering
her first and last name, username, password, and date of signing, and then
clicking a button that labeled ‘e-Sign it!’  In conjunction with this process, the Taleo
website provided the following alert: ‘Filling in the following information
will constitute your e-Signature and will have the same legal impact as signing
a printed version of this document.’  The
Taleo system created a unique ‘Esign ID’ for Plaintiff’s electronic signature
and appended an ‘Electronic Signature’ page to each document electronically
signed, which includes in the Agreement in this case.  The Taleo system also added a header to each
page of the electronically signed Agreement identifying the employee’s name,
Esign ID, and date of signing.  In
Plaintiff’s case, it is 64WR766OG-2HRSJ2OVA.  The electronic signature page also includes
password verification for the Agreement electronically executed by Plaintiff.”  (¶ 11.) 

Plaintiff does not sufficiently rebut this
evidence.  Plaintiff states,
“The new hire documents I remember signing were provided to me via Paycom.  I do not recall signing any documents via the
Taleo platform which Defendant cites in its Motion.  I do not know what Taleo is and I don’t
remember using it.  I do not recall
signing any arbitration agreement with Defendant whether on Taleo or Paycom and
if one had been presented to me I would not have signed it.”  (Reyes Decl., ¶ 3.)  She further testifies, “I do not remember
seeing or reading” the arbitration agreement, “I do not recall signing” it, and
“I do not recognize the e-signature” on it. 
(Reyes Decl., ¶ 4.)  
As
in Espejo, defendant presented detailed evidence from a custodian of
records explaining the “security precautions regarding transmission and use of
an applicant’s unique username and password, as well as the steps an applicant
would have to take to place his or her name on the signature line of the”
agreement.  (Espejo, supra, 246
Cal.App.4th at p. 1062.)  Unlike Fabian, defendant’s supporting
declaration does not “only ‘summarily assert[]’ that Fabian ‘entered into’ the
Contract on” a specific date.  (Fabian,
supra, 42 Cal.App.5th at p. 1069.) 
Johnson’s declaration (¶¶ 10-11) attests to the precise details lacking
in Fabian.  
Plaintiff,
meanwhile, makes conclusory statements about not remembering signing the
document.  That plaintiff signed some
documents using “Paycom” instead of “Taleo” and does not remember signing
anything via Taleo does not rebut defendant’s evidence showing she did sign the
arbitration agreement using Taleo.
Plaintiff also argues there is no agreement
because the contract does not define “I” or “Me” and instead says “Employee” by
her signature.  “A fundamental rule of
contract formation and interpretation is that the terms of a contract are
determined by the parties’ objective manifestations of consent.”  (Tufeld Corporation v. Beverly Hills Gateway,
L.P. (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 12, 30.)  The
agreement begins, “I recognize that differences may arise between Inter-Con
Security Systems, Inc. (‘the Company’) and me during or following my employment
with the Company.”  (Johnson Decl., Ex.
A.)  The only reasonable interpretation
of an agreement to arbitrate disputes about “my employment with the Company” is
that “I” and “Me” means the employee who signs it.  By electronically signing it, plaintiff manifested
consent to its terms.  
Finally, plaintiff argues there is no valid
agreement because defendant did not sign it. 
It is well established that the drafting party can
enforce an arbitration agreement it did not sign.  (See, e.g., Cruise v. Kroger Co.
(2015) 233 Cal.App.4th 390, 398.)  The
issue is whether the employer intended to be bound, not whether it signed the
document.  (Ibid.)  
Unconscionability
            Plaintiff
argues the agreement is unconscionable.  Unconscionability requires both procedural
and substantive unconscionability using a sliding scale.  (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal.5th
111, 125.)  “Procedural unconscionability
focuses on the elements of oppression and surprise.”  (Serafin v. Balco Properties Ltd., LLC
(2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 165, 177.) 
“Substantive unconscionability focuses on the actual terms of the
agreement and evaluates whether they create overly harsh or one-sided
results.  (Ibid., internal quotes
omitted.) 
A. Procedural Unconscionability  
Plaintiff shows a low degree of procedural unconscionability.  “ ‘Arbitration contracts imposed as a
condition of employment are typically adhesive.’ ” (Davis v. Kozak (2020)
53 Cal.App.5th 897, 906 (Davis).)  “By itself, however,
adhesion establishes only a ‘low’ degree of procedural unconscionability.”  (Id. at p. 907.)  She shows nothing oppressive or surprising
other than adhesion.
            Plaintiff argues the
agreement was inconspicuous because it was in the middle of over 100 pages of
onboarding documents.  That does not make
the agreement surprising or oppressive. 
Though included with other agreements, it is a discrete, five-page
document.  At the top of all five pages,
the document is labeled “Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate Claims.”  The agreement is in legible print in a normal
size.  
            Plaintiff also argues
the agreement is procedurally unconscionable because it does not attach the
applicable arbitration rules.  “[A] viable
claim of procedural unconscionability for failure to identify the particular
version of the applicable arbitral rules—like a claim for failure to attach the
rules themselves—depends in some manner on the substantive unfairness of a term
or terms contained within the unidentified version of the rules applicable to
the dispute.”  (Davis, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at p. 909.)  “That is, if the unidentified rules are not
themselves substantively unfair, then the employer cannot be faulted for
vaguely referring to such rules.”  (Ibid.)  As discussed below, the only substantively
unfair provisions in the rules are provided in the arbitration agreement
itself, not in an arbitration provider’s rules. 

B. Substantive Unconscionability 
Plaintiff shows two moderately substantively unconscionable provisions.  First, the agreement unfairly limits
discovery.  “In striking the appropriate
balance between the desired simplicity of limited discovery and an employee’s
statutory rights, courts assess the amount of default discovery permitted under
the arbitration agreement, the standard for obtaining additional discovery, and
whether the plaintiffs have demonstrated that the discovery limitations will
prevent them from adequately arbitrating their statutory claims.”  (Davis, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at
pp. 910-911.) 
The agreement permits “Depositions upon oral examination [of] three
fact witnesses and one expert witness per side as of right, with more permitted
if leave is obtained from the Arbitrator.” 
(Johnson Decl., Ex. A, p. 2.)  It
permits a maximum of 20 interrogatories and unlimited requests for production
of documents.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff shows that, under the
circumstances, these limits are likely to prevent her from adequately
vindicating her rights.  
Plaintiff alleges 19 causes of action. 
Despite significant overlapping issues, her claims raise five categories
of complaints that will require different evidence: (1) sex or gender
discrimination in the terms or conditions of her employment; (2) disability
discrimination and failure to accommodate disability or provide leave under the
California Family Rights Act; (3) hostile work environment harassment; (4)
retaliation; and (5) wage and hour claims. 
Plaintiff will likely need to depose more than 3 witnesses.  Limiting her to 20 interrogatories could also
unfairly interfere with her ability to prove her claims. 
Though the arbitrator may be authorized to permit additional discovery,
“the default level of discovery provided for in the arbitration agreement
appear to be inadequate to vindicate her rights.”  (Murrey v. Superior Court (2023) 87
Cal.App.5th 1223, 1250 (Murrey).)  The discovery limits are not
as great as in Murrey, where “each party was restricted to 15 requests for documents.”  (Id. at pp. 1248-1249.)  Regardless,
these “superficially neutral … discovery restrictions only favor” the
employer.  (Id. at p. 1249.)   
Second, the agreement includes an unconscionable waiver of the right to
bring PAGA claims.  It is substantively
unconscionable to require employees “to waive any right to bring a
representative action under the Labor Code Private Attorneys General Act of
2004 … despite the fact that ‘an employee’s right to bring a PAGA action is
unwaivable.’ ”  (Najarro v. Superior
Court (2021) 70 Cal.App.5th 871, 882.) 
The agreement provides, “[N]either the Company nor I will have the right to participate in a
class, representative or collective action, as a class representative, class
member or an opt-in party, act as a private attorney general, or join or
consolidate claims with claims of any other person or entity, against me or the
Company.”  (Johnson Decl., Ex. A, p. 4.)  Waiving this unwaivable right is
substantively unconscionable.
Defendant argues this provision is not
unconscionable because under Viking
River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 596 U.S. 639, an employee can be required to arbitrate her individual
or non-representative PAGA claims.  There,
the Supreme Court held that “the
FAA preempts the rule of Iskanian insofar as it precludes division of
PAGA actions into individual and non-individual claims through an agreement to
arbitrate.”  (Id. at p. 662.)  But the agreement’s terms do not merely
limit the forum in which plaintiff must bring PAGA claims.  Agreeing she will not “have the right to …
act as a private attorney general” purports to prohibit her from bringing any
PAGA claim in any forum.  That right is
unwaivable.      
Plaintiff also argues the agreement is not mutual because defendant did
not sign it.   “In assessing substantive unconscionability,
the paramount consideration is mutuality.” 
(Pinela v. Neiman Marcus Group, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th
227, 241, internal quotes and citations omitted.)  As discussed above, the drafting party is not
required to sign the agreement.  Defendant
objectively manifested consent to be bound to arbitrate its own disputes with
plaintiff.  The agreement is titled
“Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate Claims.”  It
provides, “The Company and I mutually consent to” arbitrate claims “that the
Company may have against me or that I may have against” the Company.  (Johnson Decl., Ex. A, p. 1.)  The agreement is bilateral.  
C. Severance of Unconscionable Terms
The two unconscionable provisions discussed
above are severable.  “The strong legislative and judicial
preference is to sever the offending term and enforce the balance of the
agreement” unless the agreement is “permeated by unconscionability.”  (Lange
v. Monster Energy Company (2020)
46 Cal.App.5th 436, 453, internal quotes, citations, and alterations omitted.)  The two unconscionable provisions can be
severed by striking limited text in the agreement.  When considering the low degree of procedural
unconscionability, the limited number of substantively unconscionable terms,
and the moderate unfairness of those unconscionable terms, the court cannot
conclude that the agreement “indicate[s] a concerted effort
to impose on an employee a forum with distinct advantages for the employer.”  (Murrey, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th at p. 1256.)  Despite the limits on discovery and the PAGA
waiver, under the totality of circumstances the agreement indicates a
reasonable and fair effort to mutually require binding arbitration as an
expeditious means of resolving disputes by either party.
Ending
Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act (EFAA)
            Plaintiff argues the agreement is
unenforceable under the EFAA.  The EFAA “voids
predispute arbitration clauses in cases … involving sexual harassment
allegations.”  (Murrey, supra, 87
Cal.App.5th at p. 1230.)  The law “does
not apply retroactively.”  (Ibid.)  It only applies if the “sexual harassment
dispute” arose after the law took effect on March 3, 2022.  “[T]he date that a dispute has arisen for
purposes of the Act is a fact-specific inquiry in each case, but a dispute does
not arise solely from the alleged sexual conduct.  A dispute arises when one party asserts a
right, claim, or demand, and the other side expresses disagreement or takes an
adversarial posture.”  (Kader v.
Southern California Medical Center, Inc. (2024) 99 Cal.App.5th 214, 222 (Kader).)  “Unlike
a claim, however, a dispute does not arise simply because the plaintiff suffers
an injury; it additionally requires a disagreement or controversy.”  (Id. at p. 223.)  
            Plaintiff’s first amended complaint
establishes the sexual harassment dispute arose before March 3, 2022.  It alleges, “[F]rom August to September 2021, Plaintiff
complained repeatedly to multiple of Defendant’s managers and supervisors
including Chavez himself, and Miguel Quintanilla, regarding the unlawful
treatment she was being subjected to and requested to be transferred from
Chavez due to the unlawful discrimination, harassment, and hostile work
environment fostered and encouraged by Chavez, which was ratified by
Quintanilla.”  (FAC, ¶ 21.)  It further alleges, “In response, Plaintiff’s
repeated complaints were ignored or minimized by Defendant Inter-Con.  For example, rather than disciplining Chavez
or investigating Plaintiff’s complaints, Quintanilla told Plaintiff to just
ignore him.  When Plaintiff persisted
with her complaints, she was asked for additional proof of her allegations
because it seemed like simple ‘bickering’ between co-workers.  Finally, when Plaintiff escalated her
complaints, Miguel asked Plaintiff to omit any references of her prior
complaints to him about Chavez for fear it would jeopardize his employment due
to his lack of remediation after Plaintiff’s initial complaints to him.”  (¶ 22.) 
Plaintiff alleges she “was forced … to resign” on March 30, 2022.  (¶ 23.) 

            These allegations show a
disagreement or controversy arose between “August to September 2021” when “Plaintiff
“complained repeatedly” about “unlawful treatment.”  (FAC, ¶ 21.) 
Complaining about unlawful treatment constitutes asserting a right,
claim, or demand.  Defendant expressed
disagreement or took an adversarial posture by not “disciplining Chavez or
investigating Plaintiff’s complaints” and instead telling Plaintiff “to just
ignore” Chavez.  (¶ 22.)  That defendant “asked for additional proof of
her allegations because it seemed like simple ‘bickering’ between co-workers” (ibid.)
further establishes defendant disputed and disagreed with plaintiff’s repeated
complaints that she was being sexually harassed.  In contrast, in Kader the employee’s
“attorney conceded that [employee] never complained to anyone at” her employer
about the alleged harassment until she filed an administrative complaint.  (Kader, supra, 99 Cal.App.5th at p.
224.)  
            Plaintiff argues defendant cannot
rely on her first amended complaint because defendant’s answer denied these allegations.  Plaintiff provides no authority supporting this
argument.  “ ‘ “[A] pleader cannot blow
hot and cold as to the facts positively stated.” ’ ”  (Myers v. Trendwest Resorts, Inc.
(2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 735, 746.)  Plaintiff’s
first amended complaint makes detailed factual allegations showing her sexual
harassment dispute arose in 2021.  That
defendant’s answer makes a conclusory denial of all allegations does not show
the dispute arose after March 3, 2022.   
Disposition
            Defendant’s motion to compel
arbitration is granted.  The court
hereby severs the following text in the arbitration agreement: (a) “three fact
witnesses and one expert witness per side as of right, with more permitted if
leave is obtained from the Arbitrator” (Johnson Decl., Ex. A, p. 2, ¶ A.1); (b)
“up to a maximum combined total of twenty (20)” (id., ¶ A.2); (c) “or in
a representative or private attorney general capacity on behalf of a class of
persons or the general public” (id., p. 4); and (d) “act as a private
attorney general.”  
Plaintiff
Polette Reyes is ordered to arbitrate this action against defendant
Inter-Con Security Systems, Inc.  The court hereby stays the entire action
pending resolution of the arbitration proceeding.