  Case Number:  21STCV42444    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  52 Cross-Defendant
Carole Crotty’s Demurrer to First Amended Cross-Complaint; Cross-Defendants
Spitz Technologies Corporation and Carole Crotty’s Motion to Strike First
Amended Cross-Complaint
Requests
for Judicial Notice
            Cross-defendants Spitz Technologies
Corporation (Spitz) and Carole Crotty request judicial notice of exhibit
numbers 6, 7, and 8.  
Exhibit
6 is a record of assignment of patent.  Its
existence and legal effects are subject to judicial notice as an official act
of the United States and as a fact not reasonably subject to dispute and
capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to the Patent and
Trademark Office’s website.  (Evid. Code,
§ 452, subds. (c) and (h).)  
Exhibit
7 is the docket of Spitz Technologies Corporation v. Nobel Biocare USA LLC,
et al., a patent infringement action in federal court.  It is a court record subject to judicial
notice under Evidence Code section 452(d). 

            Exhibit 8 is an article from US
News.  It is neither subject to judicial
notice nor relevant to the pending motions. 
(See Jordache Enterprises, Inc.
v. Brobeck, Phleger & Harrison (1998) 18 Cal.4th 739, 748, fn. 6.)  
            The court grants the request
for judicial notice of exhibits 6 and 7. 
The court denies the request for judicial notice of exhibit
8.  
Other
Exhibits
            Cross-defendants did not request
judicial notice of several other exhibits attached to the declaration of
Padraic Glaspy.  Cross-complainant
Michelman & Robinson, LLP objects to exhibits 1 and 4.  Those exhibits are extrinsic evidence.  The court cannot consider them on a demurrer
and motion to strike.
Demurrer
Cross-defendant
Carole Crotty demurs to the first, second, and third causes of action alleged
in the first amended cross-complaint by cross-complainant Michelman &
Robinson, LLP (M&R).  M&R
alleges: (1) equitable indemnity, (2) comparative contribution, and (3)
declaratory relief.  
M&R
fails to allege sufficient facts for these causes of action against Crotty.  All three causes of action arise from the
theory that Crotty, Spitz’s in-house counsel, must indemnify or contribute for
any damages Spitz recovers in its malpractice action against M&R.  “[I]n general, one cotortfeasor may obtain
partial equitable indemnity from another on a comparative fault basis.”  (Musser v. Provencher (2002) 28
Cal.4th 274, 279–280 (Musser).) 
But courts have held “indemnification for malpractice was barred where a
predecessor attorney was seeking indemnification from his successor.”  (Id. at p. 280.)  
Courts
have also applied this rule to concurrent counsel or cocounsel.  There
is no “blanket rule barring concurrent counsel or cocounsel from
suing one another for indemnification of legal malpractice damages.”  (Musser, supra, 28 Cal.4th at p.
276.)  Prohibiting such claims turns on “whether
the policy considerations that underlie the rule barring indemnification claims
in attorney representation situations will obtain in a particular fact
situation and whether it would be unjust to deny cocounsel an opportunity to
seek indemnity or contribution from a joint tortfeasor.”  (Forensis Group, Inc. v. Frantz, Townsend
& Foldenauer (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 14, 26 (Forensis).)
This exception to the general rules of equitable
indemnity arises from “two fundamental policy considerations.  The first policy consideration is avoiding
conflicts of interest between attorney and client: The threat of an
indemnification action would arguably create a conflict of interest between the
successor attorney and the client because the greater the award the successor
attorney managed to obtain for the client in the malpractice action, the
greater the exposure to the predecessor attorney in the indemnification action.
 [Citation.]  The second policy consideration is protecting
confidentiality of attorney-client communications: In order to defend
against an indemnification action, the successor attorney might be tempted to
compromise the confidentiality of communications with the client.”  (Musser, supra, 28 Cal.4th at p. 281.)
Musser
analyzed two Court of Appeal cases barring indemnity claims against concurrent
counsel.  (Musser, supra, 28
Cal.4th at pp. 281-284.)  In Kroll
& Tract v. Paris & Paris (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1537 (Kroll &
Tract) the court barred an insurer’s counsel’s indemnity claim against the
insured’s personal counsel and Cumis counsel.  (See Musser at pp. 282-283.)  In Shaffery v. Wilson, Elser, Moskowitz,
Edelman & Dicker (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 768 (Shaffery), the court
barred a claim for indemnity by counsel hired by an insurer to represent the
insured against the firm acting as the insurer’s “monitoring counsel.”  (See Musser at p. 284.)  
In Musser, a client hired attorney Musser to
represent her in a divorce proceeding. 
(28 Cal.4th at p. 277.)  “Musser arranged
for Douglas Provencher, a bankruptcy specialist, to obtain relief from the
automatic stay imposed by the bankruptcy court.”  (Ibid.)  “Provencher did not obtain relief from the
stay, but advised Musser that she could proceed with the hearing to set support.”  (Ibid.)  That “advice was contrary to well-established
legal authority.”  (Ibid.)  The client “sued Musser for malpractice,” who
“then filed a cross-complaint against Provencher for indemnity and settled the
case with” the client.  (Ibid.)  
The California Supreme Court held that public policy
did not bar Musser’s cross-complaint against concurrent counsel Provencher.  On the first policy of avoiding “conflict
between an attorney’s duty to the client and the attorney’s self-interest,”
the Court concluded, “Provencher gives us no reason, and we have not discovered
any reason ourselves, to believe that an attorney’s self-interest will interfere
with loyalty to the client just because the attorney, as a joint tortfeasor,
may face an indemnification claim if the client sues the attorney’s concurrent
counsel or cocounsel for malpractice.”  (Musser,
supra, 28 Cal.4th at p. 284.)  The
Court then found the second policy of “protecting the confidentiality of
attorney-client communications” did not apply because the client, “in her
settlement with Musser, expressly waived her attorney-client privilege with
respect to Provencher’s representation of her.” 
(Ibid.)
A. Conflict of Interest
The first amended cross-complaint’s claims against
Crotty create a conflict of interest between her and Spitz.  A typical method of defending against a
malpractice suit is to assert lack of causation.  “In a litigation malpractice action, the
plaintiff must establish that but for the alleged negligence of the defendant
attorney, the plaintiff would have obtained a more favorable judgment or
settlement in the action in which the malpractice allegedly occurred.”  (Viner v. Sweet (2003) 30 Cal.4th
1232, 1241.)  Generally, “a determination
of the merits of the underlying lawsuit must be made in order to adjudicate the
elements of causation and damages.”  (Gutierrez
v. Girardi (2011) 194 Cal.App.4th 925, 934.)  “ ‘This method of presenting a legal
malpractice lawsuit is commonly called a trial within a trial.’ ”  (Ibid.)  A cross-defendant thus may defend itself by
arguing the client’s “case had no substantive merit.”  (Forensis, supra, 130 Cal.App.4th at
p. 37.)
Crotty’s ongoing duty of loyalty to Spitz prohibits
her from fully defending herself against M&R’s cross-claims.  The first amended cross-complaint alleges
facts showing Crotty has continuing obligations to Spitz.  M&R alleges Crotty’s “telephone number
registered with the California State Bar is a phone number issued to her by”
Spitz.  (¶ 34.)  It further alleges, “At all times relevant
herein, Crotty considers, and has considered, [Spitz] to be her client” and Spitz
“considers, and has considered, Crotty as its attorney.”  (¶ 36.) 
Crotty’s self-interest in defending herself in this manner conflicts
with Spitz’s interests in its action against M&R.  Crotty’s self-interest is to negate both the
viability of Spitz’s underlying patent infringement action and the viability of
Spitz’s malpractice claim against M&R. 
Her interests are directly adverse to Spitz’s.   
These concerns did not apply in Musser for
two reasons that are present in this case. 
First, causation was not at issue. 
Musser agreed to settle the client’s malpractice claim against her.  (Musser, supra, 28 Cal.4th at p.
277.)  The client no longer needed to
prove Musser’s malpractice caused her damages. 
Provencher therefore could defend himself on the basis that the client
would lose the “trial within a trial” without impairing the client’s
malpractice claim against Musser.  
Second, in Musser the cross-defendant
cocounsel had no ongoing duty to the client. 
He represented the client only in a limited capacity as “a bankruptcy
specialist” (Musser, supra, 28 Cal.4th at p. 277) in proceedings that had
ended.  Here, Crotty still represents
Spitz, though not as its attorney in this malpractice action.  “The threat of an adversarial relationship”
is “more significant than the chronological relationship of the parties.”  (Kroll & Tract, supra, 72
Cal.App.4th at p. 1544, fn. 4.)  The
threat of an adversarial relationship is ongoing.  In substance, Crotty acted both as M&R’s
concurrent counsel and as Spitz’s subsequent attorney after M&R’s
representation ended.  
Shaffery
distinguished a prior case permitting indemnity because “the usual concerns do
not arise when ‘the subsequent attorney seeks equitable indemnity against the
former attorney.  The former attorney is
not subject to any conflict of interest and has no continuing privileged
communications or work product to protect.’ ” 
(Shaffery, supra, 82 Cal.App.4th at p. 774; accord Musser,
supra, 28 Cal.4th at p. 283.)  Here,
Crotty has continuing obligations to protect Spitz as her current client.  
M&R argues Kroll & Tract and Shaffery,
which barred indemnity claims by concurrent counsel, are limited to insurance
cases.  Though this is not an insurance
case, “it is immaterial that, from one case to the next, the parties are not in
precisely the same position as the parties in the other reported decisions.”  (Shaffery, supra, 82 Cal.App.4th at p.
778.)  As discussed above, courts must
apply the exception based on the specific circumstances of each case.  (Musser, supra, 28 Cal.4th at pp.
282-284; Forensis, supra, 130 Cal.App.4th at p. 26.)  The first amended cross-complaint alleges
facts showing that permitting M&R’s claims against Crotty would violate the
fundamental policy considerations underlying the rule prohibiting some
cross-complaints for equitable indemnity. 

M&R provides no authority permitting indemnity
cross-claims against an attorney who currently represents the client.  The Court of Appeal has recognized the “now-well-established precedent
holding that a lawyer sued by a former client for legal malpractice may not
cross-complain against plaintiff’s present lawyer for indemnity or
contribution.”  (Austin v. Superior
Court (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 1126, 1127.)  In “predecessor/successor cases, the
California Courts of Appeal, with one much criticized exception, have barred
indemnification.”  (Musser, supra,
28 Cal.4th at p. 280.)  M&R’s
cross-complaint against Crotty raises the same policy concerns as a former
attorney suing the present attorney. 

B. Duty of Confidentiality
M&R’s claims against Crotty would also undermine
the fundamental policy in favor of “protecting the confidentiality of
attorney-client communications.”  (Musser,
supra, 28 Cal.4th at p. 284.)  “The
concern is that the law firm from which indemnification is sought may be unable
to defend itself without revealing privileged client communications.”  (Ibid.)  That concern did not apply in Musser
because the client “expressly waived her attorney-client privilege” with the
cross-defendant attorney.  (Ibid.)  For the same reasons discussed regarding conflicts
of interest, the first amended cross-complaint against Crotty raises equivalent
concerns about confidentiality as in predecessor/successor attorney cases.
Spitz has not waived all privilege as to its communications
with Crotty, who still represents Spitz. 
M&R argues Spitz “has waived the privilege with respect to all of
its communications with Crotty involving the Underlying Action, including all
of the meetings STC had with Crotty to the exclusion of M&R.”  (Opp., p. 16.)  But the first amended cross-complaint alleges
Spitz continues to assert privilege: “STC and Crotty consider their
communications with each other protected under the attorney-client privilege
and she considers her work for STC covered within the ambit of attorney work
product.”  (FACC, ¶ 36.)  
M&R asserts no basis for waiving privilege for
direct communications between Spitz and Crotty with no others present.  A client who sues one attorney for
malpractice may still “preserve[] the privilege as to” another attorney “by
choosing not to sue it for malpractice.” 
(Kroll & Tract, supra, 72 Cal.App.4th at p. 1544.)  Furthermore, waiver of attorney-client privilege
is not dispositive.  An attorney’s “duty
of confidentiality is broader than the attorney-client privilege.”  (Dietz v. Meisenheimer & Herron
(2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 771, 786.)    
C. Availability of Affirmative Defense of
Comparative Negligence
            One
additional reason supports barring M&R’s claims against Crotty.  Kroll & Tract noted the cross-complainant attorney “can
show the negligence of” cross-defendant attorney caused the client’s “injury
through the affirmative defense of comparative negligence, thereby reducing any
liability it may have.”  (Kroll & Tract, supra, 72 Cal.App.4th at p. 1545.)  “The affirmative defense has less impact on
the public policy considerations that militate against the cross-complaint.”  (Ibid.; accord Newhall Land and Farming Co. v.
McCarthy Const. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 769, 774-775.)  The same reasoning applies here.  
            M&R’s reliance on Platt v. Coldwell Banker
Residential Real Estate Services (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 1439 is misplaced.  There, the court rejected the “assertion that,
as a matter of law, a cross-complaint for equitable indemnity fails to state a
cause of action whenever resolution of the main action will apportion liability.”  (Id. at p. 1446.)  The court concluded it could not affirm
judgment of dismissal “solely because liability will be adequately apportioned in
the underlying malpractice action.”  (Id. at p. 1447.)  The court distinguished a case where
equitable indemnity was not available because both “the availability of
equivalent relief in the main action” via this affirmative defense and “a
‘special relationship’ between the cross-defendant and plaintiff which would be
jeopardized by the cross-complaint's effect of creating a potential conflict of
interest.”  (Id. at p. 1446.) 

As in Kroll &
Tract,
here equivalent relief is available to M&R via an affirmative defense and the
cross-claims would create a conflict of interest.
3rd
Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief
            M&R also fails to allege
sufficient facts for this cause of action for an independent reason.  When
the “issues invoked in” a cause of action for declaratory relief “already [are]
fully engaged by other causes of action,” “declaratory relief [is] unnecessary
and superfluous.”  (Hood v.
Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 319, 324.)  
The third cause of action seeks only declarations
about issues fully engaged by the other causes of action.  For example, M&R seeks a declaration that
“as and between M&R and” Crotty, “responsibility for the damages alleged by
STC” against M&R “lies entirely or partially on” Crotty.  (FACC, ¶ 85(a).)  It further seeks a declaration that Crotty is
“obligated to indemnify M&R.”  (Id.,
¶ 85(d).)  Any such declaratory relief is
unnecessary and superfluous.
Motion
to Strike
            Cross-defendants Spitz Technologies
Corporation and Carole Crotty move to strike three categories of allegations in
the first amended cross-complaint.  A party may move to strike portions of
pleadings that are “irrelevant, false, or improper matter.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  Irrelevant matter includes allegations “not
essential to the statement of a claim or defense” (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10,
subd. (b)(1)) and those “neither pertinent to nor supported by an otherwise
sufficient claim or defense” (id., subd. (b)(2)).  
1.
Spitz’s Consultation with Mayer Brown
Cross-defendants
move to strike allegations about Spitz consulting Mayer Brown, LLP about the
subject patent.  On the pleadings, the
court cannot conclude these allegations are immaterial.  What Spitz and Crotty learned by consulting
Mayer Brown may be pertinent to the issue of causation for M&R’s claims. 
2.
Third-Party Ownership Interest in Patent
            Cross-defendants move to strike
allegations regarding third-parties’ potential equitable ownership of the
patent in the underlying infringement action. 
The first amended cross-complaint alleges the subject patent arose from
Dr. Carmichael and Dr. Sandor “as the sole inventors for a self-drilling
dental implant.”  (FACC, ¶ 18.)  It further alleges Dr. Carmichael worked for
the University of Toronto and the Holland Rehabilitation Hospital, which “maintained
policies and procedures conferring [them] with ownership of any inventions”
created by employees.  (¶ 15.)  M&R alleges Dr. Carmichael concealed his
inventions and patents to avoid his employers from “claim[ing] ownership in”
them.  (¶ 16.)  
            These allegations are not essential
or pertinent to M&R’s claims.  “It
has long been settled that a third party’s equitable rights in a patent may not
be asserted as a defense in an action for infringement brought by the owner of
title to the patent.”  (Mercantile
Nat. Bank of Chicago v. Howmet Corp. (7th Cir. 1975) 524 F.2d 1031, 1034.)  Potential claims of equitable ownership by
Dr. Carmichael’s employers were not relevant to the underlying patent
infringement action and are not relevant to this resulting action for
malpractice and cross-action for indemnity.
3.
Attacks on Spitz
            Cross-defendants move to strike
portions of the first amended cross-complaint about Spitz Technologies, Warren
Spitz, and Greg Spitz.  For example,
paragraph 25 alleges Spitz Technologies “had no employees, no revenue, no sales
and remained nothing more than a conduit for the friends to get together from
time-to-time at Warren’s house or a restaurant.  In fact, the Company did not even
hire a sales representative to try and monetize the ‘227 Patent.  Rather, the 5 friends were consumed with their
own lives and did nothing with the Company.” 
Similarly, paragraphs 28 and 29 allege Warren Spitz installed his son
Greg as the company’s vice president to “create an employee job for his son …
with literally no experience.”  (¶ 29.)  
These
allegations constitute unnecessary attacks on Spitz.  Courts
may strike “superfluous or abusive allegations.”  (Ferraro v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161
Cal.App.4th 509, 528.)  Even if some
these alleged facts would be admissible at trial, including them in the first
amended cross-complaint is superfluous and abusive.
Disposition
Cross-defendant
Carole Crotty’s demurrer to cross-complainant Michelman & Robinson, LLP’s
first amended cross-complaint is sustained with 20 days’ leave to amend.
Cross-defendants
Spitz Technologies Corporation and Carole Crotty’s motion to strike portions of
the first amended cross-complaint is granted in part with 20 days’ leave
to amend.  The court hereby strikes
paragraphs 15, 16, 18, 19, 25-29 and 31 of the first amended cross-complaint
with 20 days’ leave to amend.