 Case Number:  23STCV30780    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  52 Cross-Defendant Jacob
David Smith’s Demurrer to Cross-Complaint
            Cross-defendant
Jacob David Smith demurs to the second, third, fourth, and fifth causes of
action alleged by cross-complainant Chancie Elizabeth Ann
Meehan.
2nd Cause of Action: Trespass
            Meehan
alleges sufficient facts for this cause of action.  Smith demurs to this cause of action on the
ground that any trespass was de minimis and caused no damages.  Binding authority provides that “an action
for trespass will support an award of nominal damages where actual damages are
not shown.”  (Staples v. Hoefke
(1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1397, 1406.)  
The demurrer argues, “Where a trespass is so minor
as to fall within the rule of de minimis, there is no actual damage, and no
recovery possible.”  (Demurrer, p. 5,
citing Nebel v. Guyer (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d 30, 33.)  Nebel v. Guyer did not involve a cause
of action for trespass.  The plaintiffs
“brought [the] action to compel defendants … to remove a building which they
claimed was constructed in part on the lot of plaintiffs.”  (99 Cal.App.2d at p. 31.)  The court reasoned, “[P]laintiffs, in asking
for the removal of the portion of defendants’ building which they claim
encroaches upon their lot, are relying upon a bare legal right unsupported by
any damage shown.”  (Id. at p.
33.)  
The court applied the rule that “where the
encroachment is slight, the cost of removal will be great and the corresponding
benefit to the adjoining owner small, or compensation in damages can be had, a
court will ordinarily decline to compel removal, and will leave the complaining
party to his remedy at law.”  (Nebel
v. Guyer, supra, 99 Cal.App.2d at pp. 33-34.)  That remedy at law is an action for trespass,
including one for nominal damages.  The
court recognized authority “holding that even though an encroachment was found
to exist, $10 was adequate to compensate plaintiffs for any damage suffered,
there being no evidence that the encroachment caused any actual damage to them.”  (Id. at p. 33.)
Assuming Nebel v. Guyer applies to trespass
actions, the court cannot conclude from the face of the cross-complaint that
any encroachment caused no damages.  The
cross-complaint alleges Smith’s “garage and adjacent driveway [are] encroaching
on the Meehan Property.”  (¶ 33.)  One can reasonably infer that such
encroachment causes damages by diminishing her property’s value.
3rd Cause of Action: Equitable Easement
            Meehan
alleges sufficient facts for this cause of action.  There are three elements for an equitable easement: (1)
the trespasser or encroacher must be innocent rather than willful or negligent;
(2) the public or the property owner will not be irreparably harmed by the
easement; and (3) the hardship on the trespasser or encroacher from having to
cease its trespass or encroachment must be greatly disproportionate to the
hardship caused to the owner.  (Ranch
at the Falls, LLC v. O’Neal (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 155, 183; Hansen v.
Sandridge Partners, L.P. (2018) 22 Cal.App.5th 1020, 1028 (Hansen).)
            Smith
argues the trespass was not innocent because Meehan “admits her use is pursuant
to what she claims was an ‘agreement’ by the prior owners” and therefore “cannot
claim innocence if she was aware of the encroachment.”  (Demurrer, p. 6.)  Examples of innocent encroachment include
when the trespasser mistakenly “believed … he a right of way over the”
neighboring property.  (Hinrichs v.
Melton (2017) 11 al.App.5th 516, 523.) 
Assuming she knew her improvements encroached on the neighboring
property, Meehan alleges the neighboring owner agreed to allow the
encroachment.  Trespassing with
permission is innocent.  Smith cites no
authority supporting the proposition that any awareness of encroachment itself negates
innocence.
            Smith
also argues Meehan did not adequately allege the harm of removing improvements
would be greatly disproportionate to the harm caused to Smith.  Meehan alleges the (potentially) encroaching
improvements include “[a]n 800-gallon rain water tank structure”, “[a] pool
filtration system on a concrete slab,” “eight olive trees,” and “[r]etaining
walls.”  (Cross-Comp., ¶ 19.)  One can reasonably infer that removing these
extensive improvements would be difficult. 
Meehan further alleges that, rather than being harmed, Smith “benefit[s]
by the Improvements” because they “support a rain water catch system,” without
which “both parties’ properties would be vulnerable to rain run-off.”  (¶ 44.) 
On demurrer, the court cannot conclude these allegations are
insufficient to support an equitable easement. 

4th Cause of Action: Prescriptive Easement
            Meehan
does not allege sufficient facts for this cause of action.  Smith relies on the following rule: “If the
prescriptive interest sought by a claimant is so comprehensive as to supply the
equivalent of an estate, the claimant must establish the elements of adverse
possession, not those of a prescriptive easement.”  (Hansen, supra, 22 Cal.App.5th at p.
1033.)  As the Court of Appeal has noted,
“[C]laimants have often tried to obtain the fruits of adverse possession under
the guise of a prescriptive easement to avoid having to satisfy the tax
element.”  (Ibid.)  The law generally “prohibit[s] the
acquisition of an easement by prescription where the easement would deprive the
property owner of all or most practical uses of the easement area.”  (Romero v. Shih (2024) 15 Cal.5th 680,
696.)  
            The
cross-complaint alleges Meehan acquired a prescriptive easement via
encroachments in the disputed area including “a variety of structures,
improvements, landscaping, underground plumbing and electrical” (¶ 18), and the
large structures discussed above with respect to trespass (¶ 19).  As Smith argues, the prescriptive easement Meehan
seeks is not limited to a particular use. 
Meehan’s alleged prescriptive easement would be so comprehensive as to
deprive Smith of all or most practical uses of the area.  
Meehan’s opposition does not address this argument.  She makes only a conclusory assertion that
she “has alleged the necessary facts in the Cross-Complaint to establish these
requisite elements” of a prescriptive easement. 
(Opp., p. 6.)    
5th Cause of Action: Adverse Possession
Meehan does not
allege sufficient facts for this cause of action.  “ ‘To establish adverse possession, the
claimant must prove: (1) possession under claim of right or color of title; (2)
actual, open, and notorious occupation of the premises constituting reasonable
notice to the true owner; (3) possession which is adverse and hostile to the
true owner; (4) continuous possession for at least five years; and (5) payment
of all taxes assessed against the property during the five-year period.’ ”  (Hansen, supra, 22 Cal.App.5th at pp.
1032–1033.)
Meehan does not
allege facts establishing the final element. 
Code of Civil Procedure section 325(b) provides, “In no case shall
adverse possession be considered established under the provision of any section
of this code, unless it shall be shown that the land has been occupied and
claimed for the period of five years continuously, and the party or persons,
their predecessors and grantors, have timely paid all state, county, or
municipal taxes that have been levied and assessed upon the land for the period
of five years during which the land has been occupied and claimed.  Payment of those taxes by the party or
persons, their predecessors and grantors shall be established by certified
records of the county tax collector.”  
Meehan does not allege she paid taxes on the
disputed portion of the property.  The
opposition argues, “For the instant lawsuit, Cross-Complainant has set forth
allegations on information and belief in that discovery of the square footage
of the real estate upon which property taxes were paid has not been ascertained
at this pleading stage.”  (Opp., p.
7.)  She cites no allegations in the
cross-complaint.  It does not include the
word “tax” or any other allegation on this element of adverse possession.  
Meehan’s reliance on Code of Civil
Procedure section 323 is misplaced.  That
section provides, “For the purpose of constituting an adverse possession by any
person claiming a title founded upon a written instrument, or a judgment or
decree, land is deemed to have been possessed and occupied in the
following cases,” including cultivation or substantial enclosure.  (Italics added.)  The statute addresses only how to meet the
first and second elements of adverse possession.  It does not permit any alternative to the
fifth element: paying taxes. 
Disposition
            Cross-defendant Jacob David Smith’s
demurrers to cross-complainant Chancie Elizabeth Ann Meehan’s second and third
causes of action are overruled. 
Smith’s demurrers to Meehan’s fourth and fifth causes of action are sustained
with 20 days’ leave to amend.