 Case Number:  23VECV05109    Hearing Date:   February 28, 2024    Dept:  T COBIO
V MULHOLLAND SECURITY 23VECV05109
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER:  Plaintiff Jennifer Cobio’s Unopposed
Motion to Compel Arbitration and Stay the Action is GRANTED.  
Arbitration
Status Conference is set 2/26/2025 at 8:30 a.m. in dept. T.
Plaintiff
Jennifer Cobio’s Request for Monetary Sanctions is DENIED.  
Introduction

Plaintiff Jennifer Cobio (Plaintiff) moved to compel arbitration and
stay the action she filed against Defendants Mulholland Security Centers, LLC,
Abraham Ben David, and Avi ‘Coby’ Jacoby (collectively, Defendants).
Defendants’ opposition was due February 14, 2024 and none was filed.            
Discussion

A
court must order an action to arbitration when the moving party establishes by
a preponderance of evidence the existence of an arbitration agreement and that
the dispute is within the scope of the arbitration agreement.  The burden then shifts to the opposing party
to show a defense to enforcement.  (Hotels
Nevada v. L.A. Pacific Center, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 754, 758)  Plaintiff submitted the arbitration agreement
which showed that the employment claims alleged in the Complaint are within the
scope of the arbitration provision. 
(Pingle Decl. par. 3.)  Despite
Plaintiff’s and Defendants’ Counsel’s efforts to arbitrate the dispute,
Defendants failed to respond to the requests to arbitrate.  (Pingle Decl. pars. 5-11.)  Plaintiff met her burden of proof on the
motion and the burden shifted to Defendants. 
Because Defendants did not file an opposition, Defendants failed to meet
their burden.
The
motion to compel and stay the action is GRANTED.  
Within
the points and authorities only, Plaintiff requested monetary sanctions to be
levied against Defendants and Counsels. 
(Code Civ. Proc., secs. 177.5 and 128.5.)  However, the Notice to the Motion failed to
reference the request for sanctions, the amount requested, the authority for
the request, and against whom the sanctions are to be levied.  Without any notice, Plaintiff failed to give
proper notice and opportunity to be heard on the sanctions request.  Without due process, any award of sanctions would
be void.
Plaintiff’s
request for sanctions is DENIED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.