  Case Number:  23AVCV00544    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  E Case No: 23AVCV00544
Hearing Date:  06/27/2024 – 8:30am
Trial Date: 04/28/2025
Case Name: DIETRICH WILHELM GEORG LUSSE v.
FRANCISCO JAVIER MARQUEZ, and DOES 1-30 inclusive
 
TENTATIVE RULING ON
MOTION TO STRIKE
RELIEF REQUESTED
“Defendant FRANCISCO JAVIER
MARQUEZ (hereinafter referred to as “Defendant”), will and hereby does move to strike
the following portions of Plaintiffs DIETRICH WILHELM GEORG LUSSE (hereinafter
referred to as “Plaintiff”) First Amended Complaint (hereinafter “FAC”) on the following
grounds:
1.     
Page 5, paragraph 25, lines 6 – 21;
2.     
Prayer, Page 5, number 3, line 27.
This
Motion is brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure, Sections 435 and
436, on the grounds that the FAC fails to state sufficient facts to sustain its
allegations for punitive damages, as required by Code of Civil Procedure,
Section 3294.
This
Motion is supported by the accompanying Memorandum of Points and Authorities,
the Declaration of Rebecca T. Cohanghadosh, Esq., the pleadings, and records on
file in this action, and such other evidence or argument as the Court may
consider at the time of the hearing.”
(Mot.
p. 1-2.)
PROCEDURAL
Moving Party: Defendant, Francisco Javier Marquez
Responding Party: Plaintiff,
Dietrich Wilhelm Georg Lusse
Proof of Service
Timely Filed (CRC Rule 3.1300): Ok
16/21 Court Days Lapsed (CCP § 1005(b)): Ok
Proper Address: Ok
Moving Papers: Notice/Motion;
Proposed Order
Opposition Papers: Opposition
Reply Papers: Reply
Meet and Confer
Before filing a motion to strike pursuant to
this chapter, the moving party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone
with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to the motion to strike
for the purpose of determining if an agreement can be reached that resolves the
objections to be raised in the motion to strike. If an amended pleading is
filed, the responding party shall meet and confer again with the party who
filed the amended pleading before filing a motion to strike the amended pleading.
(CCP § 435.5(a).)
“A determination by the
court that the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to
grant or deny the motion to strike.” (CCP § 435.5(a)(4).)
Here, Defendant’s
counsel indicates that a meet and confer occurred, but the parties were unable
to reach an agreement.
Legal Standard Motion to Strike
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in
its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false,
or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc. § 436(a).) The
court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 436(b).)  A motion to strike cannot be based upon the
grounds that a complaint fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause
of action, but instead is properly based on grounds of superfluous or abusive
allegations, or improprieties in form or procedure.  (Ferraro
v. Camarlinghi (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 509,
528-29.)   
The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice.  (Code. Civ. Proc. § 437; Turman v. Turning Point of
Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63 [“judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth”].)   
Further, CCP
§431.10(a)-(c) states as follows:
(a) A material allegation in a pleading is one essential
to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the pleading
without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.
(b) An immaterial allegation in a pleading is any of the
following:
(1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement
of a claim or defense.
(2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor
supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.
(3) A demand for judgment requesting relief not
supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.
(c) An “immaterial allegation” means “irrelevant matter”
as that term is used in Section 436.
 
(CCP §431.10(a)-(c).)
 
ANALYSIS
Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint
(FAC) on 4/5/2024. The FAC alleges one cause of action for negligence.
The Plaintiff’s
allegations stem from an incident in which Plaintiff was riding his motorcycle
and Defendant collided with Plaintiff. 
Defendant moves to
strike ¶ 25 of the FAC and ¶ 3 in the Prayer for Relief. Both those paragraphs
pertain to allegations requesting punitive damages.
As explained below,
the Court does not find Defendant’s arguments and characterization of the
allegations in the FAC convincing based on statute and case law.
Punitive
Damages
In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example by way of punishing the defendant. (Cal. Civ. Code § 3294(a).)
“‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the defendant to
cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” (CCP § 3294(c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights. (CCP § 3294(c)(2).) “‘Fraud’ means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury. (CCP § 3294(c)(3).)
“In order to survive a motion to strike
an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to
such relief must be pled by a plaintiff.”  (Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal. App. 4th 1253, 1255.) Conclusory allegations, devoid of any
factual assertions, are insufficient to support a conclusion that parties acted
with oppression, fraud or malice. (Smith v. Sup. Ct. (1992) 10 Cal. App.
4th 1033, 1042.) 
Paragraph 25 of the FAC alleges as
follows:
Defendant FRANCISCO JAVIER
MARQUEZ and DOES 1 through 10’s conduct, i.e., knowingly, willfully, and
purposefully operating his vehicle in a dangerous manner, while knowing the
vehicle was unsafe, and driving at excessive rates of speed, and as a result thereof
causing severe injuries to Plaintiff DIETRICH WILHELM GEORG LUSSE, constitutes
conduct invoking the provisions of Civil Code section 3294. A person who
voluntarily drives a vehicle knowing that it is behaving in an unsafe
manner—where the application of brakes results in the vehicle sliding and
losing control— demonstrates such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the
interests of others that the conduct of the Defendant was willful and wanton,
and in reckless disregard for the safety and well-being of others, including
Plaintiff DIETRICH WILHELM GEORG LUSSE. Defendant FRANCISCO JAVIER MARQUEZ was
aware of the probable dangerous consequences of continuing to drive his
dangerous vehicle as he had repeatedly experienced the vehicle slide and lose control,
yet he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid the consequences that his
dangerous vehicle posed to other drivers on the road. Instead of pulling over,
Defendant drove at an unsafe speed on a winding two-lane highway, above the
posted speed limit, while knowing that applying his brakes resulted in the
vehicle sliding and losing control. Plaintiff is therefore entitled to punitive
and exemplary damages for sake of example and by way of punishing Defendants
FRANCISCO JAVIER MARQUEZ and DOES 1 through 10, and each of them.
(FAC ¶ 25.)
Defendant quotes
from Jackson v. Johnson (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1354 to argue that
“simple negligence cannot support an award of punitive damages.”
Although
the instant FAC alleges a singular cause of action for negligence, Defendant’s
argument as to Jackson v. Johnson is not availing.
First, Jackson
v. Johnson was at a different procedural posture than the instant case. This
case is at the pleading stage; Jackson v. Johnson was not.
Second, of
particular importance is that in Jackson v. Johnson the Second District
Court of Appeal determined that the trial court erroneously instructed the jury
to make findings as to defendant’s malice and oppression for the purpose of
punitive damages under Civ. Code § 3294 after the jury had returned a verdict
awarding plaintiff no compensatory damages. “The jury having determined that
one of the elements of malpractice, actual damages, had not been established,
the punitive damages award is invalid.” (Jackson v. Johnson (1992) 5
Cal.App.4th 1350, 1358.) Here, the same cannot be said. A jury has not ruled on
anything, particularly with respect to damages.
Defendant
also quotes from G.D. Searle & Co. v. Superior Court (1975) 49
Cal.App.3d 22, 28-29, “When nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that
the defendant's conduct was wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do
not support a claim for exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge
malice.”
However, there
are several cases that go against Defendant’s argument.
“California
courts have long held that punitive damages may, under appropriate
circumstances, be recoverable for nondeliberate or unintentional torts,
including actions in which the theory of recovery for compensatory damages from
the defendant is based on strict products liability or vicarious liability.” (CRST,
Inc. v. Superior Court (2017) 11 Cal.App.5th 1255, 1261.)
“Therefore,
although conduct resulting in injury may be characterized as nondeliberate,
when done in conscious disregard of safety, it is sufficiently blameworthy to
warrant an assessment of punitive damages.” (Ford Motor Co. v. Home Ins. Co.
(1981) 116 Cal.App.3d 374, 382.)
Further, in
Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, the Supreme Court held
that in a personal injury action brought against an intoxicated driver, one who
voluntarily commences, and thereafter continues, to consume alcoholic beverages
to the point of intoxication, knowing from the outset that he must thereafter
operate a motor vehicle demonstrates such a conscious and deliberate disregard
of the interests of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton;
accordingly, punitive damages are recoverable in personal injury action brought
against intoxicated driver.
“We concur
with the Searle observation that a conscious disregard of the safety of others
may constitute malice within the meaning of section 3294 of the Civil
Code. In order to justify an award of punitive damages on this basis, the
plaintiff must establish that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous
consequences of his conduct, and that he wilfully and deliberately failed
to avoid those consequences.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d
890, 895-896.)
In relevant
part of Plaintiff’s FAC, Plaintiff alleged:
Defendant FRANCISCO JAVIER
MARQUEZ was aware of the probable dangerous consequences of continuing to drive
his dangerous vehicle as he had repeatedly experienced the vehicle slide and
lose control, yet he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid the
consequences that his dangerous vehicle posed to other drivers on the road.
Instead of pulling over, Defendant drove at an unsafe speed on a winding
two-lane highway, above the posted speed limit, while knowing that applying his
brakes resulted in the vehicle sliding and losing control. Plaintiff is
therefore entitled to punitive and exemplary damages for sake of example and by
way of punishing Defendants FRANCISCO JAVIER MARQUEZ and DOES 1 through 10, and
each of them.
(FAC ¶ 25.)
Based on
these allegations, Plaintiff has made sufficient allegations for a jury to
potentially find that Defendant acted with malice or “with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” Further, Plaintiff ‘s
Opposition indicates that it plans to prove that Defendant stated that he knew
the car was behaving dangerously and that Defendant could have pulled over but
chose not to do so.
Defendant’s
argument that Plaintiff has failed to present clear and convincing evidence of
oppression, fraud, or malice is unavailing. This case is at the pleading stage,
and this motion does not involve assessing evidence.
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendant’s
motion to strike ¶25 of the FAC and ¶ 3 in the Prayer for Relief is DENIED.
 