 Case Number:  23GDCV02091    Hearing Date:   June 27, 2024    Dept:  E Hearing Date: 06/27/2024 – 8:30am
Case No: 23GDCV02091
Trial Date: UNSET
Case Name: GEVORK ADJEMIAN, an individual; v. BMW NORTH AMERICA, LLC; and DOES
1-10 inclusive
TENTATIVE
RULING ON MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff,
Gevork Adjemian, filed the instant action against BMW North America LLC on
10/02/2023 for violations of the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
On 1/25/2024, Plaintiff
filed three motions to compel further responses – RFAs Set One, RFPs Set One,
and SROGs Set One. Confusingly, there is only one motion to compel further
responses on the 6/27/2024 Calendar. The single motion on the 6/27/2024
Calendar has a Reservation ID ending in 8082. What Plaintiff did was use the
same Reservation ID for all three motions. This is improper, as Plaintiff
should have had three Reservation IDs so that three motions were on calendar.
By Plaintiff filing three motions under the guise of one motion, Plaintiff
unfairly jumps ahead of other litigants and does not properly allow the Court
to manage its calendar. Further, by only using one Reservation ID for three
motions, Plaintiff deprives the Court of filing fees it is otherwise entitled
to collect. “[P]ayment of filing fees is both mandatory and jurisdictional.” (Hu
vs. Silgan Containers Corp. (1999) 70 Cal. App. 4th 1261, 1269.)  
 
Based on Plaintiff’s
Reply papers, Plaintiff indicates that it withdrew its motion to compel further
responses re: RFPs. Therefore, it appears as if Plaintiff wants only two
motions heard – RFAs Set One and SROGs Set One.
 
Before the hearing,
Plaintiff is ordered to pay the additional filing fees if it wants its two
motions heard. 
 
As to the merits of the
two motions that are allegedly on calendar – RFAs and SROGs, Set One –
Defendant served supplemental responses on June 14, 2024, which would have been
after Plaintiff filed the motion(s) and after Defendant already opposed the
motions. 
 
Because Defendant
provided supplemental responses, Plaintiff’s motions to compel further re: RFAs
and SROGs Set One are denied as moot. 
 
Typically, the issue of
sanctions would not be moot because Defendant didn’t serve supplemental
responses until after the motion was filed; however, Plaintiff did not request
sanctions. 
 
As to the Reply’s
arguments that the supplemental responses are not proper, those issues are not
before the Court. If Plaintiff has issues with the supplemental responses,
Plaintiff would have to follow all applicable law and code sections of the CCP
to file a motion to compel further responses directed at the supplemental
responses.
 
Sanctions
“The court shall impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel a further response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP § 2030.300(d).)
 
“The court shall impose a
monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) against
any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel further response, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction
acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the
imposition of the sanction unjust.” (CCP § 2033.290(d).)
 
“The court may award
sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to
compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or
opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided
to the moving party after the motion was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1348(a).) 
 
The Court will hear from
the parties on the issue of sanctions.
 
 
 