   [FN1] Plaintiff initially had filed a  seventh motion, Motion to Compel Further Responses from Defendant Inland Valley  Partners to Form Interrogatories, Set One, but Plaintiff filed a Notice of  Withdrawal of that motion.   [FN2] Renew Health also objected to the request at issue on the basis that it was  vague and ambiguous, called for speculation, lacked foundation, violated the  attorney client privilege and attorney work product doctrine and improperly  sought information protected by Evidence Code section 1157. Renew Health failed  to address these objections in its opposition; as such, it has not met its  burden of justifying the objections to the requests pursuant to Coy, supra,  58 Cal.2d at 220-221, and the Court declines to consider them.   [FN3] The Court notes that Renew  Health did not assert its own right to privacy in response to No. 1, but  objected on the basis of “[i]nvasion of privacy to the extent that the  information sought constitutes disclosure of unintended third parties.”    [FN4] The Court notes that Renew Health did not object on the basis of  privacy, the attorney client privilege, the attorney work product doctrine  and/or Evidence Code section 1157, but did object  on  the basis that responding to the interrogatory would “[n]ecessitate[] the  preparation or making of a compilation, abstract, audit or summary.” All other  objections identified in Motion #1 were raised by Renew Health in response to  No. 15. Renew Health did not raise the “abstract, audit or summary” objection  in opposition; as such, it has not met its burden of justifying the objections  to the requests pursuant to Coy, supra, 58 Cal.2d at 220-221. The Court  declines to consider same on this basis.   [FN5] The Court notes that Renew Health interposed the same objections as with  Request for Admission No. 1. Again, Renew Health has addressed only those  objections set forth in the analysis as to the first motion; as such, it has  not met its burden of justifying any of its other objections to the requests  pursuant to Coy, supra, 58 Cal.2d at 220-221. The Court thus declines  to consider these objections.    [FN6] Code of Civil Procedure section  2031.220 provides that “[a] statement that the party to whom a demand for  inspection, copying, testing, or sampling has been directed will comply with  the particular demand shall state that the production, inspection, copying,  testing, or sampling, and related activity demanded, will be allowed either in  whole or in part, and that all documents or things in the demanded category  that are in the possession, custody, or control of that party and to which no  objection is being made will be included in the production.”    [FN7] Evidence Code section 1157  provides, in relevant part, that “[n]either the proceedings nor the records of  organized committees of medical. . . staffs in hospitals, or of a peer review  body, as defined in Section 805 of the Business and Professions Code, having  the responsibility of evaluation and improvement of the quality of care  rendered in the hospital, or for that peer review body. . ., shall be subject  to discovery.”   [FN8] The Court agrees that Inland  Valley should not be compelled to produce the confidential personnel files of  its employees without any limitation on the basis of third-party privacy  rights. “In Hill [v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th  1, 35], we established a framework for evaluating potential invasions of  privacy. The  party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy  interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given  circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious. The party seeking  information may raise in response whatever legitimate and important  countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the party seeking protection  may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same interests or protective  measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. A court must then balance  these competing considerations.” (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3  Cal.5th 531, 552.) Confidential personal files at a person’s place of  employment are within the zone of privacy. (Board of Trustees v. Sup. Ct.  (Dong) (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 516, 528 (disapproved of on other grounds by Williams,  supra, 2 Cal.5th at 557.) A party seeking discovery of private information must  establish a compelling interest or need for “[o]bvious invasions of interests  fundamental to personal autonomy.” (Williams, supra, 3 Cal.5th at 557.)  Plaintiff has not demonstrated a compelling need for the information sought. Inland  Valley notes that “Plaintiff has not served a special interrogatory to  determine if any person involved in Plaintiff’s care and treatment at  Defendant’s facility was disciplined in connection with his care and treatment.”  (Opp., 8:24-26.) Any  further response, however, should make general reference to disciplinary  reports and job performance evaluations in its employees’ personal files and  confirm that documents are being withheld on this basis.