..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 23CHCV02336
Plaintiff's Name: Jocelynne Rosales
Defendant's Name: Satinderjit Singh and Pannu Trans Inc.
People-Names: Satinderjit Singh, Jocelynne Rosales, Ted D. Evans
Company-Names: Pannu Trans Inc.
Places: California, Encino, Balboa Blvd.
Dates: 8/13/22, 2/23/24, 6/13/24, 6/25/24, 6/26/24, 7/11/24, 10/13/25
Events: Motor vehicle accident, Neuropsychological examination, Motion for leave to conduct neuropsychological examination
Money: $5,460.00
Intentions: To obtain discovery by neuropsychological examination of Plaintiff Jocelynne Rosales
Facts: Plaintiff Jocelynne Rosales claims various neuropsychological conditions connected with the injuries sustained in the accident. Defendants requested that she stipulate to a neuropsychological examination, but the parties could not come to an agreement on the duration of the exam.
Disputes: Duration of the neuropsychological examination, Taking of an oral medical history, Release of raw test data
Acts: Filing of motion, Filing of opposition, Filing of reply, Filing of supplemental briefs
Agreements: None
Laws: CCP 2032.020(a), CCP 2032.310, CCP 2032.320(a)
Case Citations: Suezaki (1962) 58 C2d 166, Carpenter (2006) 141 CA4th 249
Statutes: CCP 2032.020(a), CCP 2032.310, CCP 2032.320(a)
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff's counsel, Defendant's counsel
Significant Statements:
* The court may only grant a motion for a neuropsychological examination upon a showing of good cause.
* The court finds that an estimation of 8 hours for the exam, excluding breaks and depending on Ms. Rosales's pace, is appropriate.
* The court finds that the taking of a medical history at the exam is permitted, but Ms. Rosales is not to be questioned regarding the specifics of any treatment, names of treating physicians and details of the medical or mental conditions of family members.
* The court finds that the raw test data from the neuropsychological examination may only be exchanged between opposing neuropsychological experts, and Plaintiff has failed to establish that such a choice should allow her to circumvent such industry standards.
```

And here is the summary of the Judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The Judge has granted the motion filed by Defendants Satinderjit Singh and Pannu Trans Inc. for leave to conduct a neuropsychological examination of Plaintiff Jocelynne Rosales. The examination will be administered by Dr. Ted D. Evans, a board-certified clinical psychologist, and will take place on a date and time to be determined by the Court. The duration of the exam is estimated to be around 8 hours, excluding breaks and depending on Ms. Rosales's pace.

The Judge has also addressed Ms. Rosales's objections to the taking of an oral medical history at the exam and the release of raw test data. The Judge has found that the taking of a medical history is permitted, but Ms. Rosales is not to be questioned regarding the specifics of any treatment, names of treating physicians and details of the medical or mental conditions of family members. The Judge has also found that the raw test data from the neuropsychological examination may only be exchanged between opposing neuropsychological experts, and Plaintiff has failed to establish that such a choice should allow her to circumvent such industry standards.

The Judge has also addressed Ms. Rosales's request for sanctions against the Defendants and their attorneys. The Judge has found that the request is without merit and that the amount of sanctions requested is excessive under the circumstances.

The Court will sign the proposed Order submitted by Defendant with its supplemental brief on 6/26/24.
