 Case Number:  23CHCV02336    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 7/11/24                                                             
TRIAL DATE: 10/13/25
Case #23CHCV02336
 
MOTION FOR
LEAVE TO CONDUCT NEUROPSYCHOLOGICAL EXAMINATION
 
Motion filed on 2/23/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Satinderjit Singh
and Pannu Trans Inc.

RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Jocelynne
Rosales

NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
granting Defendants Satinderjit Singh and Pannu Trans Inc. leave to obtain
discovery by neuropsychological examination of Plaintiff Jocelynne Anay Rosales
administered by Dr. Ted D. Evans, Ph.D., a board-certified clinical
psychologist licensed to practice in the state of California at 5363 Balboa
Blvd., Encino, California 91316 on a date and time to be determined by the
Court.  
 
RULING: The motion is granted.   
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of a motor vehicle accident that
occurred on 8/13/22.  Plaintiff Jocelynne
Rosales (Ms. Rosales) claims various neuropsychological conditions connected
with the injuries sustained in the accident. 

 
Due to the nature of Ms. Rosales’s claimed injuries
Defendants Satinderjit Singh and Pannu Trans Inc. (Defendants) requested that
she stipulate to a neuropsychological examination.  Despite meet and confer efforts, the parties
could not come to an agreement, particularly regarding the duration of the
exam.  (Jones Decl., Ex.C-E).  The Defendants indicate that the exam should
take as long as reasonably necessary, but also indicate that it will take approximately
8 hours, excluding breaks and depending on Ms. Rosales’s pace.  Id. 
On the other hand, Ms. Rosales wants the exam limited to 8 hours.  Id.
 
Therefore, on 2/23/24, Defendants filed and served the
instant motion seeking an order granting Defendants leave to obtain discovery
by neuropsychological examination of Ms. Rosales administered by Dr. Ted D.
Evans, Ph.D., a board-certified clinical psychologist licensed to practice in
the state of California, at 5363 Balboa Blvd., Encino, California 91316 on a
date and time to be determined by the Court. 
Ms. Rosales opposed the motion and requested sanctions against “Defendant
and/or its attorneys” in the amount of $5,460.00 and Defendants filed a reply
to the opposition.  
 
With regard to the 6/13/244 hearing on the motion, the
Court issued a tentative ruling indicating its inclination to grant the motion.  (See 6/13/24 Minute Order, p.4).  However, due to issues with the proposed
order submitted with the motion, the matter was continued to 7/11/24 with the
Court allowing the parties to file supplemental briefs at least 10 court days
before the continued hearing date.  Id.  
 
On 6/25/24, Plaintiff filed her supplemental brief
regarding the motion.  On 6/26/24,
Defendant filed a supplemental brief along with a new proposed order. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A defendant may obtain a mental examination of a
plaintiff if the plaintiff has placed his or her mental condition in
controversy.  See CCP 2032.020(a).
CCP 2032.310 provides: 
 
“(a) If any party desires to obtain
discovery by a physical examination other than that described in Article 2
(commencing with Section 2031.210), or by a mental examination, the party
shall obtain leave of court.
(b) A motion for an examination
under subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place, manner, conditions, scope,
and nature of the examination, as well as the identity and the specialty, if
any, of the person or persons who will perform the examination. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040.
(c) Notice of the motion shall be
served on the person to be examined and on all parties who have appeared in the
action.” (emphasis added)
 
The court may only grant a motion for such an exam upon a
showing of good cause.  CCP 2032.320(a).
 
Here, Ms. Rosales does not dispute good cause exists for a
neuropsychological/mental exam.  Rather,
Ms. Rosales objects to the duration of the exam possibly exceeding 8 hours; the
examiner taking her oral medical history; and Ms. Rosales and her counsel not
receiving the “raw data” from Defendants’ examiner.  (See Opposition, generally).
 
Even if Ms. Rosales had not essentially conceded that
good cause exists for a neuropsychological exam of Ms. Rosales, the Court finds
such good cause as Ms. Rosales has placed her neuropsychological condition, and
alleged neuropsychological injuries sustained in connection with the subject accident,
at issue.  Ms. Rosales has filed this
action to recover for personal injuries, damages, and suffering connected to a
possible brain-related or neuropsychological injury allegedly inflicted by
Defendants.  Additionally, Ms. Rosales
has recently undergone neuropsychiatric examinations, and it is likely that
Plaintiffs’ counsel intends to use any corresponding reports or evaluations of
those examinations to prove damages at trial. 
As such,  Defendants are entitled to conduct discovery
into the issues related to these claims.  
 
Ms. Rosales cites no authority which sets forth a
specific time limitation for the proposed exam. 
As such, the Court finds that an estimation of 8 hours for the exam,
excluding breaks and depending on Ms. Rosales’s pace to be appropriate with the
caveat that if Ms. Rosales feels the exam proceeding has become abusive, including
excessively lengthy, she may terminate the exam and seek a protective order
from the Court.  
 
With regard to her objection to the taking of an oral
medical history at the exam, Ms. Rosales cites authority regarding physical
examinations, not mental and/or neuropsychological examinations.  (See Opposition, p.3:25-p.6:7).  Ms. Rosales cites no authority which precludes
the taking of a medical history at a mental exam.  As such, the Court finds that the Dr. Evans
should be permitted to ask Ms. Rosales about the general health of family
members and the existence of medical or mental conditions and whether treatment
was received.  However, Ms. Rosales is
not to be questioned regarding the specifics of any treatment, names of
treating physicians and details of the medical or mental conditions of family
members as the rights of privacy of third parties are in issue.  Additionally, Ms. Rosales is not to be
questioned about her conversations with her counsel of record or any person
affiliated with her counsel or her counsel’s offices.  Also, Plaintiff shall not be questioned
concerning her counsel’s evaluation of any of Ms. Rosales’s claims against any
of the Defendants, nor is Ms. Rosales to be questioned about any discussions
she has had with her counsel regarding such evaluations.  Nothing in the order shall be construed as a
waiver of Ms. Rosales or her family’s privacy rights, medical privacy rights,
doctor patient privileges, psychotherapist patient privileges.  Further, the order compelling the
neuropsychological exam of Ms. Rosales shall not be construed as a waiver of
Ms. Rosales’s right to challenge the admissibility or appropriateness of any
opinion or contention. 
 
In her opposition, Ms. Rosales failed to provide any
authority which would allow her or her counsel, rather than her neuropsychological
expert to receive the raw test data.  The
case relied on by Ms. Rosales in the opposition, Suezaki (1962) 58 C2d
166, concerns raw video footage taken sub rosa not raw data from a
neuropsychological exam.  Plaintiff’s
supplemental brief only addresses this issue. 
Plaintiff has still failed to cite authority which requires the raw test
data be provided directly to her counsel. 
The cases relied on in Plaintiff’s supplemental brief are
distinguishable.  For example, Carpenter
(2006) 141 CA4th 249 concerned the production of written test questions due to
copyright law, not the production of raw test data to parties or their
counsel.  Id. at 274-275.  Plaintiff has not refuted the declaration of
Dr. Evans which indicates, with supporting documentation, that industry
standards dictate raw data may only be exchanged between opposing neuropsychological
experts.  (See Dr. Evans Decl.).  If Plaintiff chooses not to designate such an
expert, as seemingly indicated in the reply, she has failed to establish that such
a choice should allow her to circumvent such industry standards.  (See Plaintiff’s Supplemental Brief,
p.2:5-8). 
 
The Court finds that Ms. Rosales’s request for sanctions
is without merit.  Based on the failed
meet and confer efforts between counsel for the parties, Defendants
appropriately filed the instant motion.  See
CCP 2032.310(a), (b); (Jones Decl., Ex.C-E). 
Further, the Court finds the amount of sanctions requested to be
excessive under the circumstances.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is granted. 
The Court will sign the proposed Order submitted by Defendant with its
supplemental brief on 6/26/24.  
In  its 6/13/24
ruling, the Court noted that neither Defendants’ counsel nor Plaintiffs’
counsel had electronically bookmarked the exhibits attached to their papers as
required by CRC 3.1110(f)(4).  (See
6/13/24 Minute Order, p.4).  The Court
further warned that failure to comply with this requirement in the future may
result in matters being continued so that papers can be
re-filed in compliance, papers not being considered and/or the imposition of
sanctions.  Id.  Despite the foregoing, Plaintiff’s counsel
still failed to electronically book mark the exhibit attached to its
supplemental brief.  The Court now warns Plaintiff’s
counsel that failure to comply with this requirement in the future will result
in matters being continued so that papers can be re-filed in compliance, papers
not being considered and/or the imposition of sanctions.  