 Case Number:  24STLC03676    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  26 State
Farm v. Richardson, et al.DEMURRER(CCP § 430.10, et seq.)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Cross-Defendant Janae Nelson’s Demurrer to the
Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND AS TO THE FIRST AND SECOND
CAUSES OF ACTION, AND SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND AS TO THE THIRD
CAUSE OF ACTION. 
 
 
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 

On May 22, 2024, Plaintiff State
Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Company (“Plaintiff”) filed the Complaint in
this action against Defendant Jayelan Richardson (“Cross-Complainant Richardson”). On June 26, 2024, Cross-Complainant Richardson
filed an answer to the Complaint, and with Aspire General Insurance Company
(“Cross-Complainant Aspire), filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendant Janae
Nelson (“Cross-Defendant”). 
 
Cross-Defendant filed the instant
Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint on September 3, 2024. Cross-Complainants filed
an opposition on September 11, 2024. 
 
Discussion
 
Allegations
in the Pleadings
 
The
Complaint alleges that Cross-Complainant Richardson
negligently caused Plaintiff’s insured, Janae Nelson (“Cross-Defendant”), and
the driver and/or passengers in the vehicle, to incur damages in a motor
vehicle accident. (Compl., ¶¶10-13.) Plaintiff allegedly paid Cross-Defendant
damages in the amount of $25,473.14 and now seeks subrogation of those
damages from Cross-Complainant Richardson. (Id.
at ¶¶7-9.)
 
In the Cross-Complaint, Cross-Complainants bring causes of
action for (1) declaratory relief and comparative indemnity; (2) apportionment
of fault; and (3) subrogation. The Cross-Complaint confusingly refers only to
“Cross-Complainant” without specifying whether it is referring to
Cross-Complainant Richardson or Cross-Complainant Aspire. Only the third cause
of action for subrogation is brought by “Cross-Complainants.” The allegations
are as follows. If Cross-Complainant is held liable, then
Cross-Defendant was negligent or liable in some manner for the damages alleged
by Plaintiff. (Cross-Compl., ¶6.) Specifically, that on November 14, 2023 at 235
West 60th Street, Los Angeles, California, Cross-Defendant “negligently owned,
entrusted, maintained, operated and controlled their motor vehicle in such a
fashion that they proximately caused a collision with Cross-Complainant’s
vehicle.” (Id. at ¶¶8, 18.) Cross-Complainant has not been negligent and
is not liable for Plaintiff’s alleged damages. (Id. at ¶10.) However, if
Cross-Complainant is held liable, then Cross-Defendant was contributorily
negligent in causing any damages alleged by Plaintiff and Cross-Complainant is
entitled to be indemnified by Cross-Defendant for the full amount of any
judgment entered against Cross-Complainant, reduced to the extent Plaintiff’s
damages are attributable to any negligence or liability of Cross-Complainant. (Ibid.)
Cross-Complainant Aspire seeks subrogation of damages it paid to
Cross-Complainant Richardson due to the accident in the amount of $5,978.00. (Id.
at ¶¶15-20.) 
 
Demurrer
 
The Demurrer is accompanied by a
meet and confer declaration as required by Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41. (Demurrer, Shapiro Decl., ¶¶6-8 and Exh.
D.) Cross-Defendant demurs to the Cross-Complaint for failure to
allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action. (Citing Code Civ. Proc., §
430.10, subd. (e).) 
 
The
Demurrer is brought on the grounds that the causes of action are comprised almost entirely of contentions,
deductions, or conclusions of fact or law, and fail to actually identify the
tortious conduct by which Cross-Defendant contributed to Cross-Complainants’
harm. The first cause of action does not include any facts that support the
elements for declaratory relief or comparative indemnity. It simply alleges
that “each Cross Defendant was negligent or liable in some manner for the
damages alleged by Plaintiff.” (Cross-Compl., ¶6.) The second and third causes
of action also simply makes the generic allegation that Cross-Defendant “negligently
owned, entrusted, maintained, operated and controlled their motor vehicle” such
that they caused a collision with Cross-Complainants’ vehicle. (Id. at ¶¶8,
18.) These conclusory statements of negligence by Cross-Defendant are not
sufficient to allege facts in support of the causes of action in the
Cross-Complaint. In fact, Cross-Complainants’ opposition does not cite to any
line, paragraph, or other portion of the Cross-Complaint wherein facts are
alleged that sufficiently state the aforementioned causes of action, or any
cause of action. 
 
Cross-Defendant also argues that these causes
of action are unnecessary and duplicative because they seek relief that is
already sought in Cross-Complainant Richardson’s Answer to the Complaint. In
support, the Demurrer cites Jaffe v. Huxley Architecture (1988) 200
Cal.App.3d 1188, which considered whether “the parties responsible for the
construction defects [may] seek equitable indemnification from individual
members of the association’s board of directors based on the board’s acts and
omissions which contributed to the damage caused by the original defects.” (Jaffe
v. Huxley Architecture (1988) 200 Cal.App.3d 1188, 1190.) The Court of
Appeals held that the cross-complainants could not seek such equitable
indemnification because of the nature of the relationship between the parties.
(Ibid.) Specifically, because the individual members of the association
were the representatives of the association, the parties responsible for the
construction defects could not go after the individual members of the association
on a theory of indemnity after having already settled with the association. (Id.
at 1192.) 
 
The relationship between the parties here
also makes the cross-claim for indemnity improper. 
 
Quite simply, equitable indemnification is a
matter of fairness. “ ‘(I)n the great majority of cases ... equity and fairness
call for an apportionment of loss between the wrongdoers in proportion to their
relative culpability, rather than imposition of the entire loss upon one or the
other tortfeasor.’ ” (Tech–Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward–Clyde & Associates (1985)
38 Cal.3d 488, 495, 213 Cal.Rptr. 256, 698 P.2d 159.) There seems no logical
reason why the application of this doctrine should turn on the relationship of
the tortfeasors to each other. What is important is the relationship of the
tortfeasors to the plaintiff and the interrelated nature of the harm done. (See
Cahill Bros., Inc. v. Clementina Co. (1962) 208 Cal.App.2d 367, 376, 25
Cal.Rptr. 301.) It would be unfair to require one tortfeasor to bear a loss
disproportionate to his relative culpability simply because a tortfeasor who
contributed to the loss owed a duty to the plaintiff but not to the defendant.
 
(Id. at 1191-1192.) As Cross-Defendant
points out, the apportionment of loss sought by Cross-Complainants via the
first and second causes of action have already been sought in their Answer to
the Complaint in the fourth through seven affirmative defenses. (See Answer,
¶¶5-8.) 
 
Based
on the foregoing, the Demurrer to the Cross-Complaint is sustained. Cross-Complainants
seek leave to amend in the event the Demurrer is sustained. Leave to amend must
be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman
v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) As discussed above, the relief sought
in the first and second causes of action has already been accounted for in Cross-Complainant
Richardson’s Answer to the Complaint. Leave to amend those causes of action is
denied. However, Cross-Complainants are permitted to amend the third cause of
action for subrogation. 
 
Conclusion
 
Cross-Defendant Janae Nelson’s Demurrer to the
Cross-Complaint is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND AS TO THE FIRST AND SECOND
CAUSES OF ACTION, AND SUSTAINED WITH 20 DAYS’ LEAVE TO AMEND AS TO THE THIRD
CAUSE OF ACTION. 
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
 
 