 Case Number:  23BBCV02097    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  26  
  
Mosley
v. GWH3, LLC, et al.MOTION
TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO INTERROGATORIES 
AND
REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS 
 (CCP § 2030.290)
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
Plaintiff Lloyd Mosley’s Motion to Compel Answers to
Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Monetary Sanctions is DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE.
 
 
ANALYSIS:
 
Plaintiff Lloyd Mosley (“Plaintiff”)
propounded Form Interrogatories, Set One, and Special Interrogatories, Set One,
on Defendant GWH3 LLC (“Defendant”) on June 15, 2024. (Motion, Magallanes
Decl., Exh. A.) Following Defendant’s failure to respond, Plaintiff sought to
meet and confer. (Id. at ¶4.) Following no response from Defendant after
the extended deadline, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Compel Answers to
Interrogatories and Request for Sanctions on August 14, 2024. Defendant filed
an opposition on September 11, 2024 and Plaintiff replied on September 16,
2024.

 
First, the Court finds that the discovery requests served on
Defendant do not comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 94, which prohibits
interrogatories with subparts in the Limited Jurisdiction Court. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 94, subd. (a)(1).) Form interrogatories approved by the Judicial
Council for the Limited Jurisdiction Court are set forth at Judicial Council
Form DISC-004. 
 
Second, Plaintiff improperly filed a single discovery motion
to compel responses with respect to two separate sets of discovery: the first
sets of Form Interrogatories and Special Interrogatories. Filing the requests
as a single motion negatively impacts the Court’s calendar by placing more
motions on the calendar than slots have been provided by the online reservation
system. Furthermore, it allows the moving party to avoid paying the requisite
filing fees. Statutorily required filing fees are jurisdictional and “it is
mandatory for the court clerks to demand and receive statutorily required
filing fees.” (See Duran v. St. Luke’s Hospital (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th
457, 460.) Plaintiff’s motion, therefore, cannot be heard in full until an
additional motion reservation is made and the corresponding filing fees are
paid. 
 
Based on the foregoing, the discovery motion is denied
without prejudice to give Plaintiff an opportunity to correct these defects. 
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiff Lloyd Mosley’s Motion to Compel Answers to
Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for Monetary Sanctions is DENIED WITHOUT
PREJUDICE.
 
 
 
Court clerk to give notice. 
 
 