 Case Number:  22VECV02277    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  T 22VECV02277 TOPANGA &
VICTORY PARTNERS,... vs JAMES JAEHYUNG LEE
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants James Jaehyung Lee and James
Jaehyung Lee, DDS, Inc.’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED.
Defendants James Jaehyung Lee and
James Jaehyung Lee, DDS, Inc.’s Alternative Motion for Summary Adjudication is
DENIED as to Issues 1, 2, 6, 10, and 11; and GRANTED as to Issues 3-5, and
7-9.  The Second Amended Complaint’s
first and second causes of action are adjudicated in favor of Defendants James
Jaehyung Lee and James Jaehyung Lee, DDS, Inc.
Defendants James Jaehyung Lee and
James Jaehyung Lee, DDS, Inc.’s Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED.  
Plaintiff Topanga & Victory
Partners, L.P.’s request for a continuance is DENIED.
Evidentiary Objections are ruled
on separately.
Introduction 
Defendants James Jaehyung Lee
(Lee) and James Jaehyung Lee, DDS, Inc. (Lee Inc.) (collectively, Defendants)
moved for summary judgment (MSJ) and alternatively for summary adjudication
(MSA) against Plaintiff Topanga & Victory Partners, L.P.’s (Plaintiff)
Second Amended Complaint (SAC). 
Defendants’ MSA asserted eleven 
separate issues to be adjudicated. 
The MSA Issues 2-5 moved against the first cause of action (COA) for
breach of contract, Issues 6-9 moved against the second COA for declaratory
relief, Issue 10 moved against the third COA for promissory estoppel, and Issue
11 moved against the fourth COA for trespass.          
Discussion  
As to the first COA for breach of
contract and MSA Issue 2, Defendants asserted that there is no triable issue of
material fact as to the existence of the two written contracts at issue.  At an MSJ/MSA, the pleadings serve as the
“outer measure of materiality.”  (Laabs
v. City of Victorville (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1258.)  Plaintiff’s claim is based upon two
contracts: (1) the written Commercial Lease (Lease) between Plaintiff and
non-party Robert Stankov, D.D.S. (Stankov) and (2) the Asset Purchase Agreement
(APA) between Defendants, as Buyers, and [Bobby S.] Stankov and Bobby Stankov
Dental Corporation (Stankov Corp.) (collectively, Sellers).  Plaintiff alleged that Defendants breached
the Lease because Defendants failed to pay rent.  (SAC pars. 18 and 20.)  Plaintiff further alleged that Defendants
breached the APA because Defendants did not comply with their contractual
obligation to assume the Lease or enter a new lease with Plaintiff as required
by APA sec. 2.4(A).  (SAC par. 21.)  Section 2.4(A) of the APA stated:  “This Agreement is contingent upon: Buyer
assuming the existing lease to the Premises, or obtaining an acceptable new
lease”.  (Jonathan Starre (Starre) Decl. par.
2, Exh. 1.)
Defendants provided evidence to
show that they are not contracting parties on the Lease and that they did not
enter an assignment of the Lease nor did they enter an assumption of the Lease.
(Defendants’ Separate Statement of Facts (DSSF) 1, 2, and 18. With this fact,
Defendants met their burden to show that no triable issue of fact exists at
least as to Plaintiff’s claims on the written Lease.  
As for the contract claim based
upon the APA’s section 2.4(A), Defendants submitted evidence to show that the
APA was never fully formed or came into existence, at least as to Stankov.  Defendants provided evidence showing that
Stankov passed away soon after signing the APA. 
Stankov signed the APA on April 2, 2021. 
(DSSF 15.)  Stankov died on May 4,
2021, which is prior to Defendants signing the APA (i.e., May 18, 2021.)  (DSSF 16-17.) 
Because Stankov died, Stankov’s offer encompassed in the APA was automatically
revoked by statute.  (Civ. Code, sec.
1587.)  Defendants’ acceptance of the APA
on May 18, 2021 as to Stankov was a nullity. 
A party cannot accept an offer that no longer existed.  Defendants met their burden to show that no
triable issue of fact exists as to the existence of the APA with Stankov.
However, the three arguments
above, in and of themselves, are insufficient to grant MSA Issue 2 because the
issue does not resolve the entire COA. 
Stankov, as an individual, was not the only contracting party on the
APA.  The APA was signed by Stankov as
the president of Stankov Corp.  Nothing
in Defendants’ MSJ/MSA provided any argument as to the effect of Stankov’s
death on Stankov Corp.’s entry into the APA. 
It has not been shown that Stankov’s death worked to revoke the offer of
Stankov Corp. encompassed in the APA.  As
such, Defendants’ acceptance of the APA on May 18, 2021 provided facts showing
the existence of the APA as between Stankov Corp. and Defendants.  (The Court noted that the APA contained a
severability provision wherein it was agreed that the unenforceability of one
provision shall not impact the remaining provisions.  (Lee Decl., par. 5, Exh. 2, sec. 24.)  Because Defendants’ evidence showed that
Stankov Corp. and Defendants entered into the APA, Defendants failed to meet
their initial burden of proof as to MSA Issue 2.  Because Defendants failed to meet their
initial burden, the burden did not shift to Plaintiff as to the MSJ and MSA
Issue 2.
The MSJ and MSA Issue 2 is
DENIED.  
As to MSA Issue 3, Defendants
asserted that there is no triable issue of fact as to the breach of contract
COA because Plaintiff does not have standing to enforce the APA and because
there is no Lease between Plaintiff and Defendants.  Again, Defendants’ MSA Issue is based upon
multiple facts/parts.  As reviewed under
MSA Issue 2, Defendants provided evidence that they did not enter the Lease
and/or did not enter an assignment/assumption of the Lease.  (DSSF 23.) 
Defendants met their initial burden as to the Lease and the burden
shifted to Plaintiff as to arguments on the Lease.  Plaintiff provided evidence to show that
Defendants took possession of the Premise when they accepted the keys from
Krassi Stankov, Stankov’s widow. 
(Plaintiff’s Separate Statement of Disputed Facts (PSSDF) 18.)  However, taking possession of the Premise may
be evidence to show a landlord-tenant relationship and/or Defendants’
obligation to pay rent outside the written Lease but it is insufficient to show
that Defendants were obligated to pay rent based upon the written Lease.  Evidence of possession does not provide a
triable issue of fact as to Plaintiff’s claims based upon the written
Lease.  Plaintiff did not meet its burden
of proof on its claims as to the written Lease’s obligation to pay rent.  
As to the standing issue, it is
undisputed that Plaintiff is not a contracting party on the APA between Stankov
Corp. and Defendants.  (DSSF 19.)  The parties argued over third-party
beneficiary status of Plaintiff.  (DSSF
and PSSDF 20-22.)  (Because the APA does
not exist between Stankov and Defendants, there can no issue of third-party
beneficiary status as to the Stankov-Defendants APA.)  Determining whether Plaintiff is an intended
third-party beneficiary requires a review of the intention of the parties
gathered from the terms of the agreement and the relevant circumstances under
which the contract was agreed to.  (Civ.
Code, sec. 1559; Lucas v. Hamm (1961) 56 Cal.2d 583, 590; Brinton v. Bankers
Pension Services, Inc. (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 550, 558.)    The Court must determine:  “(1) whether the third party would in fact
benefit from the contract, but also (2) whether a motivating purpose of the
contracting parties was to provide a benefit to the third party, and (3)
whether permitting a third party to bring its own breach of contract action
against a contracting party is consistent with the objectives of the contract
and the reasonable expectations of the contracting parties. All three elements
must be satisfied to permit the third party action to go forward.”  (Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal.5th
817, 829-830 (Goonewardene).)  The APA is
seen to potentially provide Plaintiff with a benefit in that Plaintiff could
continue to receive rental payments if Defendants performed the APA’s
contingency to assume the existing lease. 
However, the contingency had a second option which required Defendants
to  “obtain an acceptable new
lease.”  The contingency did not require
Defendants to obtain a new lease at the premise or with Plaintiff.  Defendants had the option to fulfill the
contingency by entering a lease at a different location so long as it was “acceptable.”  It is disputable whether the APA conferred an
actual benefit to Plaintiff.  (Starre
Decl., Exh. 2: APA, sec. 2.4.)  Further,
the evidence showed that Defendants’ motivating factor in entering the APA was
to purchase Seller’s dental practice assets, which did not identify the Lease
as an asset.  (Starre Decl., Exh. 2: APA,
pg. 1, “I.  INTRODUCTION” and sec.
2.1.)  Plaintiff asserted that one of
Stankov’s motivating factors was to be released from the Lease.  However, as stated above, the APA does not
exist as to Stankov, as an individual. 
Plaintiff further cannot assert that Stankov Corp.’s motivating factor
was to be release from the Lease because Stankov Corp. is not an identified
tenant on the Lease.  The terms of the
APA show that benefitting Plaintiff was not a motivating purpose of Stankov
Corp. or Defendants.  Because there is
insufficient evidence to show that the motivating purpose of the  contracting parties to the APA was to benefit
Plaintiff, there is no triable issue of fact that Plaintiff is an intended
third-party beneficiary.  As to the third
Goonewardene element, the objectives of the APA and the reasonable expectations
of Stankov Corp. and Defendants was the sale/purchase of dentistry assets.  The Court does not find that Plaintiff’s
breach of contract claim is consistent with the objectives of the APA or the
expectations of Stankov Corp. and Defendants because Section 2.4 of the APA
does not require Defendants to assume the Lease or enter a new Lease with
Plaintiff.  
Plaintiff cited to APA secs. 6
(access to inspect the Premise), 7.4(c) (premise liability insurance for the
premise), 15 (beneficiary of the Seller has right to enforce the APA), and 17
(venue as to arbitration) to argue that the APA benefitted Plaintiff.  Sections 7.4 and 17 do not specifically
identify “Premise” as defined in the APA (i.e., Plaintiff’s property.)  Sections 7.4 and 17 of the APA do not
capitalize the word “premise” and thus the two provisions are not seen to show
any intent to benefit Plaintiff.  Section
6 of the APA allowing Defendants access to the “Premise” (capitalized) for
inspection but as provided above, there is no requirement in the APA to assume
the Lease of the Premise.  The inspection
provision of the APA is not seen to show an intent to benefit Plaintiff.  Lastly, as to Section 15 of the APA, the APA
afforded beneficiaries of the Seller to enforce the APA.  However, Stankov Corp. being the only
“Seller” of the dental practice would not benefit Plaintiff because Stankov
Corp. is not a tenant under the Lease. 
Plaintiff failed to meet their burden to show that there is a triable
issue of fact as to the third-party beneficiary theory to enforce the APA.  Without triable issues of fact as to
third-party beneficiary status, Defendants’ argument as to lack of standing to
enforce the APA is persuasive to show that no triable issue of fact exists.
In that there are no triable
issues of material fact as to entry, assignment, or assumption of the Lease and
third party beneficiary status/standing as to the APA, Defendant’s MSA Issue 3
is GRANTED.  
As to MSA Issue 4 against the
breach of contract claim, Defendants argued that Section 2.4(A) of the APA does
not require Defendants to assume the Lease or enter a new Lease with Plaintiff
and argued that there is no Lease with Plaintiff.  Defendants cited to the express language of
Section 2.4(A) of the APA to support their contention.  (DSSF 25.) 
Defendants again asserted that they did not enter any lease with
Plaintiff, was not assigned the Lease, and did not agree to assume the
Lease.  (DSSF 26.)  The Court reviewed these facts and agrees
with Defendants.  Defendants facts are
sufficient to show that no triable issue of fact exists as to the
interpretation of Section 2.4(A) of the APA and that no lease was entered,
assigned, or assumed by Defendants.  As
reviewed above, Plaintiff did not present evidence to show that a triable issue
of fact exists as to Defendants’ facts. 
Without a triable issue of fact as to Issue 4, Defendants’ MSA is
persuasive.
Defendants MSA Issue 4 is
GRANTED.  
MSA Issue 5 asserted that there
is no triable issue of fact as to the first COA because Stankov had no
authority to assign or sublet to Defendants and because there was no lease
between Plaintiff and Defendants.  Although
not expressly argued, it is noted that the evidence presented showed that
Stankov, as the tenant on the Lease, died before entering into the APA.  The inference from the timing of his death
would be that Stankov, as an individual and as the tenant, did not obtain
written consent to assign the Lease to Defendants and/or did not obtain written
consent to have Stankov and Defendants enter an agreement to assume the
Lease.  Defendant’s evidence showed that
the Lease required written consent prior to assignment/sublease of the
Lease.  (DSSF 29.)   Based upon these undisputed facts, there is
no triable issue of fact to show Defendants entry into a Lease with Plaintiff,
or assignment/assumption of the Stankov-Plaintiff Lease.
The MSA Issue 5 is GRANTED.
MSA Issues 6-9 argued against the
second COA for declaratory relief.  The
declaratory relief COA is grounded upon the same two contracts at issue in the
breach of contract COA:  the Lease and
the APA.  Plaintiff requested a
declaration that the parties legal rights and obligations under the Lease  and the APA relating to the Premise.  Plaintiff alleged that Defendants owed rent
under the Lease.  (SAC pars. 26-27.)  MSA Issues 6-9 presented the same
facts/arguments reviewed under MSA Issues 2-5 (i.e., lack of capacity of
Stankov; no entry into a lease or assignment/assumption of Lease; no standing
under APA; APA did not require Defendants to enter/assume the Lease with
Plaintiff; and Stankov had no authority to assign/sublease the Lease.  These facts/arguments were reviewed above and
the analysis is the same.  MSA Issue 6
coincides with the facts/arguments presented in MSA Issue 2 and MSA Issues 7-9
coincide with the facts/arguments presented in MSA Issue 3-5,
respectively.  As such, the rulings are
the same.
MSA Issue 6 is DENIED and MSA
Issues 7-9 are GRANTED.
MSA Issue 10 moved against the
third COA for promissory estoppel. 
Defendants argued that there is no triable issue of fact as to any
express promise and reasonable reliance.   
In support, Defendants argued the unenforceability of the APA and
specifically Section 2.4(A) and lack of any lease or assignment/assumption of
the Lease.  (DSSF 49-51.) However, the
promise need not rise to the level of a contract to be enforceable.  Promissory estoppel is a doctrine which
employs equitable principles to satisfy the requirement that consideration must
be given in exchange for the promise sought to be enforced.  (C&K Engineering Contractors v. Amber
Steel Co. (1978) 23 Cal.3d 1, 6.)  APA
Section 2.4 made the APA contingent upon the Buyer assuming the existing lease
(i.e., the lease between Plaintiff and Stankov) or obtaining an acceptable new
lease.  Plaintiff provided facts to show
that Defendants did not enter a new lease with Plaintiff or at a new
location.  Defendants instead took
possession of the Premise and the keys from Mrs. Stankov.  Because of APA Section 2.4 and the fact that
Defendants took possession of the Premise, there are triable issues of fact as
to whether a promise was made to pay rent. 

MSA Issue 10 is also grounded on
there being no triable issue as to reasonable reliance.  The motion and the separate statement failed
to present any facts/evidence to show that no triable issue exists as to
reasonable reliance.  On this defect,
Defendants failed to meet their initial burden to show that no triable issue of
fact exists as to the third COA.  
MSA Issue 10 is DENIED.  
As to MSA Issue 11 against the
fourth COA for trespass, Defendants argued that there is no triable issue of
fact as to Plaintiff’s right to exclusive possession.  Defendants argued that, at minimum, the death
of Stankov created a possessory interest in the property to Stankov’s estate
and Stankov’s estate had rightful possession through at least 2024 – the
duration of the lease term.  (DSSF
52-54.)  However, the contention presumes
facts not presented in the motion or the separate statement.  Defendants’ contention presumes that
Stankov’s estate continued on with possession through 2024.  There are no facts to show that Stankov’s
estate continued with possession after Stankov’s death.  In fact, Plaintiff presented facts to show
that Mrs. Stankov, to the extent she may be the representative of Stankov’s
estate, transferred possession to Defendants in 2021 and the facts, as inferred
above, provide that Stankov’s estate and/or Defendants did not obtain written
consent to transfer possession.  If the
transfer of possession was unauthorized, then Defendants could be considered
trespassers.  There are triable issues of
fact as to whether Defendants are in rightful possession of the Premise.
MSA Issue 11 is DENIED.  
Plaintiff requested a continuance
to complete discovery regarding a subpoena served upon third party, Dental
Strategies – Defendants’ broker in connection with the APA and Defendants’
acquisition of Defendants’ dental practice. 
A denial of the motion or continuance is required unless the requesting
party failed to present facts by affidavit or declaration showing the
likelihood that controverting evidence may exist and why the information sought
is essential to opposing the motion; specific reasons why such evidence could
not have been presented at this hearing; an estimate of time necessary to
obtain such evidence; and the specific steps or procedures the opposing party
intends to utilize to obtain the evidence. 
(Code Civ. Proc., sec. 437c(h).)   
Where a party's lack of diligence results in having insufficient
information to know if facts essential to justify opposition may exist, and the
party is therefore unable to provide the requisite affidavit under Code of
Civil Procedure, section 437c(h), a continuance may be denied.  (Bahl v. Bank of America (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 389, 398.)  Counsel’s
declaration failed to present facts showing the likelihood that controverting
evidence may exist or what specifically the documents may disclose to oppose
the motion or why the documents are essential in opposing the motion.  Further, this action has been pending since
December 6, 2022 and Plaintiff was in possession of the motion since December
7, 2023.  But it was not until January
16, 2024 that the subpoena was served. 
It is inferred from the facts that the identity of Defendants’ own
broker in relation to the APA was not hidden from Counsel.  Because Defendants failed to comply with the
requirements of the statute and failed to show due diligence, the request for
continuance is DENIED.  
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE
NOTICE.