 Case Number:  23VECV04326    Hearing Date:   February 23, 2024    Dept:  T NABIZADEH V DREBSKAYA
23VECV04236
            [TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendants CVS Pharmacy, Inc. and Alexandra
Drebskaya’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED and the Request to Dismiss
is DENIED.
Defendants
CVS Rx Services, Inc.; CVS Health Corp.; Caremark, LLC; and Garfield Beach CVS,
LLC request for joinder is GRANTED.  
Plaintiff’s
request for judicial notice is GRANTED but not as to any facts in dispute or
hearsay.  
The
case is stayed pending arbitration.
Arbitration
Status Conference is set _______________, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Dept. T.
 
Introduction

            Defendants CVS
Pharmacy, Inc. (CVS) and Alexandra Drebskaya (Drebskaya) (collectively,
Defendants) moved to compel arbitration and dismiss Plaintiff Betty Nabizadeh’s
(Plaintiff) Complaint.
            Defendants CVS Rx
Services, Inc.; CVS Health Corp.; Caremark, LLC; and Garfield Beach CVS, LLC (collectively,
Joinder Defendants) requested to join the arbitration motion filed by
Defendants.
            Discussion 


A
court must order an action to arbitration when the moving party establishes by
a preponderance of evidence the existence of an arbitration agreement and that
the dispute is within the scope of the arbitration agreement.  The burden then shifts to Plaintiff to show a
defense to enforcement.  (Chiron Corp.
v. Ortho Diagnostic Sys. (9th Cir. 2000) 207 F.3d 1126, 1130.)  Defendants provided that Plaintiff
electronically signed an arbitration agreement in October 2014 through a
web-based Arbitration Training course. 
(Jade Garcia (Garcia) Decl. pars. 3-7, 9, and Exh. 1; Robert Bailey
(Bailey) Decl. par. 5 and Exh. 2 at pg. 6.) 
Plaintiff completed the training on October 22, 2014.  (Id. at par. 9, Exh. 2.)  Defendants attached the arbitration
agreement.  (Bailey Decl. par. 5, Exh. 1;
Garcia Decl. par. 15, Exh. 3, pgs. 9-12.) 
Defendants argued that the scope of the arbitration agreement includes
the claims alleged in Plaintiff’s Complaint because of the broad language of
the agreement.  (i.e., arbitrate “any and
all legal claims, disputes or controversies that … Employee may have, now or in
the future, against CVS Health, …. , arising out of or related to the
Employee’s employment with CVS Health or the termination of the Employee’s
employment.”)  With these facts,
Defendants met their initial burden on the motion.
Defendants
argued that the Federal Arbitration Act (FAA) governs the arbitration agreement
because the arbitration agreement expressly provides such (Garcia Decl., Exh.
3, pg. 9, par. 1.) and CVS’s business involves interstate commerce because CVS
operates retail stores throughout the United States (Melanie K. St. Angelo (St.
Angelo) Decl. par. 3).  Plaintiff does
not dispute that the FAA governs the arbitration agreement.  The Court reviewed the motion under Federal
Law.
In
defense, Plaintiff argued that Defendants waived their right to arbitration based
upon nonlitigation conduct (i.e., by failing to raise the issue of arbitration
prior to Plaintiff filing the instant action.) 
Plaintiff cited to several California cases to show the factors
considered by the Court on the issue of waiver. 
However, nowhere in Plaintiff’s opposition is there citation to any
Federal case law to support the contention that the Court is authorized to
determine waiver and what those factors include.  Without legal authority to show that the
Court is authorized to determine waiver, the Court cannot consider the issue. 
Even
if it is the Court that determines waiver, the Court is not convinced that
waiver can be based upon nonlitigation conduct. 
The California cases cited by Plaintiff only involve post-litigation
conduct.  In the instant action, Plaintiff
filed the Complaint on September 29, 2023. 
Plaintiff served CVS on November 1, 2023 and Drebskaya on November 14,
2023.  Defendants filed their Answer on
December 1, 2023 and filed the instant motion on December 12, 2023.  Just based upon the timing of the filing of
the motion, Defendants asserted their rights to arbitration within a month to a
month and a half of service of the Complaint. 
Further, the only other pleading filed by Defendants is their Answer.  The Court record does not show any actions
that are inconsistent with the right to arbitrate; that Defendant substantially
invoked the litigation machinery; that a long period of delay exists/proximity
to trial date; that a cross-claim was filed; or any intervening steps had taken
place; and Plaintiff suffered prejudice. [The Court recognized that the FAA
does not require prejudice as a factor in determining waiver (Morgan v.
Sundance, Inc. (2022) 596 U.S. 411) but referenced prejudice, in the event California
authority applied.]  If the Court has
authority to determine waiver, Plaintiff’s arguments are not persuasive based
upon the Court record.
Plaintiff
then argued that she opted out of the arbitration agreement when the terms of
her employment were modified.  The Court
determines whether an arbitration agreement exists and State law applicable to
contracts governs.  (9 U.S.C sec. 4; Perry
v. Thomas (1987) 482 U.S. 483, 492; Stutler v. T.K. Constructors Inc. (6th
Cir. 2006) 448 F.3d 343, 347.)  Plaintiff
asserted that she opted out of the arbitration agreement via a notice sent to
CVS on May 4, 2021.  Plaintiff asserted
that her employment changed because she was assigned to be a floater to work in
various CVS stores.  However, State
contract law determines whether Plaintiff properly opted out of the arbitration
agreement.  Defendants provide that
Plaintiff had 30 days from completion of the LEARNet Course to opt-out.  The notice to CVS required mailing, signing,
dating of the notice to opt out.  (Bailey
Decl. apar. 8; Garcia Decl. par. 14 and Exh. 1, at pg. 5.)  Plaintiff’s alleged opt-out on May 4, 2021 is
untimely and Plaintiff failed to present sufficient facts to show a written
modification of the agreement.  The
argument as to Plaintiff’s opting-out of the arbitration agreement is
unpersuasive.
Plaintiff
argued that the tort claims are outside the scope of the arbitration agreement
(i.e., not arbitrable.)  However, as was
the issue in the waiver argument, Plaintiff failed to cite to any legal
authority to show that the Court determines arbitrability.  The Court determines the issue of
arbitrability except when the parties “clearly and unmistakably provide” that
an arbitrator is to decide arbitrability. 
(AT&T Techs., Inc. v. Maryland Group A.G. (9th Cir. 2013) 724
F.3d 1069, 1072.)  Defendants argued that
the arbitration agreement required the arbitrator, and not the Court, to decide
the issue of arbitrability.  The
arbitration agreement stated:  “Covered
Claims also include disputes arising out of or relating to the validity,
enforceability or breach of this Policy, except as provided in the section
below regarding the Class Action Waiver.” 
(Bailey Decl, Exh. 1, par. 2, last full sentence.)  “When deciding whether the parties agreed to
arbitrate a certain matter (including arbitrability), courts generally ...
should apply ordinary state-law principles that govern the formation of
contracts.”  (First Options of Chicago,
Inc. v. Kaplan (1995) 514 U.S. 938, 944.) 
The provision in the arbitration agreement’s “Covered Claims” clause
expressly provided a clear and unmistakable agreed to have the arbitrator
decide the issue of arbitrability.  (Aanderud
v. Superior Court (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 880, 892; Elmore v. CVS
Pharmacy, Inc. (C.D. Cal. 2016) 2016 WL 6635625, at *3 [finding this exact
language to be sufficient].)  Based upon
this legal authority, the Court did not consider whether Plaintiff’s tort
claims are arbitrable.
Plaintiff
then argued that Defendant Drebskaya is third party to the arbitration
agreement and is not obligated to arbitrate the claims against her. However,
the scope of the arbitration agreement includes claims against “its
employees.”  (Bailey Decl, Exh. 1, par.
2, first full paragraph.)  Drebskaya is
also alleged to Plaintiff’s supervisor.  If
the arbitration clause encompasses claims against a contracting party's
employees or associates, those persons may compel arbitration of claims against
them.  (Grand Wireless, Inc. v.
Verizon Wireless, Inc. (1st Cir. 2014) 748 F.3d 1, 9-13.)  Plaintiff’s argument against enforcement of
the arbitration agreement is unpersuasive.
Because
Plaintiff failed to meet her burden to defend against enforcement of the
arbitration agreement, the motion is persuasive.
The
motion to compel arbitration by all Defendants, including Joinder Defendants,
is GRANTED.
Defendants
requested that the action be dismissed.  Defendants
failed to support their request with any legal authority.  Without legal support, the request to dismiss
the action is not proper and not persuasive. 

The
Court noted that the FAA provides authority to allow the Court to stay the
action.  “If any suit … be brought in any
of the courts of the United States upon any issue referable to arbitration …
the court in which such suit is pending … shall on application of one of the
parties stay the trial of the action … providing the applicant for the stay is
not in default in proceeding with such arbitration.” (9 U.S.C. sec. 3.)  However, it must be shown that the party
requesting the stay is not in default in the arbitration proceeding, which
would also require that the arbitration proceeding be commenced.  In that the arbitration has not commenced,
any request to stay the instant action is premature.
In
any event, Defendants’ request to dismiss the action is without legal authority
and DENIED.  
IT
IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.