  Case Number:  21STCV27487    Hearing Date:   March 15, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



MARIAH HOWARD, an Individual,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
LOS ANGELES COUNTY METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY; and
  DOES 1 through 10, Inclusive,
                        Defendants.


 Case No.:          21STCV27487
 Hearing Date:   3/15/24
 Trial Date:        5/7/24
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Defendant Los
  Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s Motion for Summary
  Judgment or, in the Alternative, for Summary Adjudication.



 
I. Background
A. Pleadings Framing Summary
Judgment and Adjudication
Plaintiff Mariah Howard sues
Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (the MTA)
and Does 1 through 10 pursuant to a January 31, 2022, Second Amended Complaint
(SAC) alleging claims of (1) Civil Rights (Multiple Counts) (Unruh Civil Rights
Act, Cal. Civ. Code Sect. 51, 51.5, 51.7, 52, 52.3, 52.45, (2) Negligence and
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress, (3) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress, (4) Preventative Relief [Injunction], (5) Unfair Business
Practices, (6) Exemplary/Punitive Damages, and (7) Exemplary Damages.
The claims arise from the following
allegations. During a trip on one of the MTA’s buses, an MTA bus driver
passively allowed Howard to experience physical assault and actively engaged in
other violations of Howard's rights based on Plaintiff being a Black,
homosexual person.
On April 25, 2022, the Court struck
the SAC’s “claims” for exemplary and punitive damages.
B. Motion Before the Court
On December 29, 2023, the MTA filed
a motion for summary judgment or adjudication of the remaining claims alleged
in the SAC.
On February 27, 2024, Plaintiff
Howard filed an opposition.
On March 18, 2024, the MTA filed a
reply.
The MTS’s motion is now before the
Court.
 
II. Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative,
Summary Adjudication
A. Legal Standard
A motion for summary judgment shall
be granted if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as
to any material fact for trial or that the moving party is entitled to a
judgment as a matter of law. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) A party
may also seek summary adjudication of select causes of action, affirmative
defenses, claims for damages, or issues of duty, which may be made by a
standalone motion or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and
proceeds in all procedural respects like a motion for summary judgment, but
which must completely dispose of the challenged cause of action, affirmative
defense, claim for damages, or issue of duty. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds.
(f)(1)-(2), (t).) The moving party bears the initial burden of production to
make prima facie showing no triable material fact issues. (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) This burden on summary
judgment or adjudication “is more properly one of persuasion rather than proof,
since he must persuade the court that there is no material fact for a
reasonable trier of fact to find, and not to prove any such fact to the
satisfaction of the court itself as though it were sitting as the trier of
fact.” (Id. at p. 850, fn. 11.) If the moving party meets this burden,
the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a rebuttal prima facie showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists. (Id. at p. 849.) “[I]n
ruling on motions for summary judgment courts are to ‘“liberally construe the evidence
in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.”’ [Citations].” (Cheal v. El Camino
Hospital (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 736, 760.)
B. Analysis
1. Hearing
on Defendant the MTA’s Motion: CONTINUED.
Here, on its own motion, the Court
determines that the circumstances before it merit a continuance of the hearing
on MTA’s motion.
a. Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1113(k)
All references to exhibits or
declarations in supporting or opposing papers must reference the number or
letter of the exhibit, the specific page, and, if applicable, the paragraph or
line number. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(k); see Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1350(e)(1) [summary judgment or adjudication motions must contain a
memorandum of points and authorities].)
Here, a review of the opposition’s points
and authorities filed by Plaintiff Howard fails to show a single cite to an exhibit
or undisputed material fact submitted with the opposition. (Opp’n, pp. 1-17.)
“In the face of … omissions, the
trial court ha[s] no obligation to undertake its own search of the record ‘backwards
and forwards to try and figure out how the law applies to the facts’ of the
case.” (Quantum Cooking Concepts, Inc. v. LV Assocs, Inc. (2011) 197
Cal.App.4th 927, 934, citations omitted.) This is because “[r]ule 3.1113 rests
on a policy-based allocation of resources, preventing the trial court from
being cast as a tacit advocate for the [relevant] party's theories by freeing
it from any obligation to comb the record and the law for factual and legal
support that a party has failed to identify or provide.” (Ibid.)
Accordingly, the Court determines
that Plaintiff’s opposition is defective and must be updated only for the
narrow purpose of inserting citations to evidence referenced in the opposition’s
points and authorities.
b. Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1350(g)
If evidence in support of or in
opposition to a motion for summary judgment or adjudication exceeds 25 pages,
the evidence must be separately bound and must include a table of contents.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(g).)
Here, though not dispositive, the
Court also notes that the opposition and its supporting papers were filed in a
single PDF document despite the fact that the opposition attaches roughly 48
pages of evidence. (Opp’n, Exs. 1-32.)
Any amended opposition must comply
with this rule of court by separately filing its evidence and including a table
of contents.
 
Moreover, given that the points and
authorities and evidence must be presented separately, the Court notes that it
would be best practice here to also file the separate statement as an
independent PDF document rather than in a single PDF document in combination
with either the memo or the evidence.
c. Failure
to Consider the Opposition Will Lead to Prejudice and Draconian Results
In so doing, the Court must weigh
the potential prejudice to Defendant with the prejudice to the Plaintiff. The
MTA is admittedly prejudiced by a continuance, at least in terms of time. A
continuance of this hearing may result in a continuance of the final status
conference and trial dates.
Nevertheless, on the other end, if
the Court declines to consider Plaintiff’s opposition on the merits based on
its defects, a windfall could result in favor of the MTA. Moreover, in such a
scenario, time and resources may thereafter need to be expended to determine
whether Plaintiff should be relieved from the defects in her opposition. All
this would result in further continuances and delays in bringing this action to
a resolution on the merits.
Prejudice and a disproportionate result
thus also support a continuance of this hearing.
d. Continuance
“California courts retain the
ability to manage the litigation before them by means of case-specific orders,
provided that those orders are consistent with California law and afford
litigants due process.” (In re Harley C. (2019) 37 Cal.App.5th 494, 501,
citing Rutherford v. Rutherford v. Owens-Illinois, Inc. (1997) 16
Cal.4th 953, 967 (Rutherford); Rutherford, supra, at p. 967
[Trial courts are “entitle[d] to exercise reasonable control over all
proceedings connected with pending litigation … in order to ensure the orderly
administration of justice”].)
Here, the Court determines that, in
order to conserve time and resources for the parties and the Court, and as
discussed above, a continuance of this hearing is proper. 
III. Conclusion
Defendant Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority’s Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the
Alternative, for Summary Adjudication is CONTINUED. 
Plaintiff Mariah Howard’s updated opposition
points and authorities shall be filed no later than fourteen calendar days prior
to the new hearing date. Plaintiff Mariah Howard MUST only update the points
and authorities to insert references to evidence, where applicable. No other
changes may be made to the points and authorities. Moreover, Plaintiff Mariah
Howard may not update the separate statement and may only update the evidence
to create a table of contents for the evidence, to be filed in a PDF document
separate from the points and authorities and separate statement.
Defendant Los Angeles County
Metropolitan Transportation Authority shall file any updated reply no later
than five calendar days prior to the hearing. The Court notes that because the
reply is not defective, there appears to be no reason for Defendant to update
its reply. The purpose of this continuance is to insert evidentiary references
into the points and authorities before the Court. However, to the extent that
the Defendant seeks to insert evidentiary references in its Reply in response
to the evidentiary citations inserted into the Opposition, it may do so.
The Court will discuss the issue of
scheduling the continued hearing at oral argument.