 Case Number:  22STCV06783    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JOLYCELINE A. BALADAD, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
STEPHENSON S. ALEGRE,
 
                                  Defendant.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV06783
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 26, 2024
 Calendar Number:  2



 
 
 
Defendant Stephenson S. Alegre moves to set aside the
default entered against him on May 13, 2024 following the request for entry of
default filed by Plaintiff Jolyceline A. Baladad (“Plaintiff”).
 
The Court GRANTS the motion and vacates the default entered
against Defendant.  Defendant shall
within five days file the answer attached to the declaration of Defendant’s
attorney.
 
Background
 
This is a real estate case.
 
Plaintiff and Defendant are siblings and joint tenants of a
residential home located at 1308 Manley Drive, San Gabriel, California 91776
(the “Property”). Plaintiff seeks partition of the Property in this action.
 
Defendant suffers from methamphetamine addiction. (Stephanie
Watson Alegre Decl. ¶ 3; Stephenson S. Alegre Decl. ¶ 9.) Defendant uses
methamphetamine on a daily basis, and use of this drug affects his ability to
concentrate, focus, and understand things. (Stephenson S. Alegre Decl. ¶ 9.)
Following a referral by Defendant’s Deputy Public Defender in an unrelated
criminal matter, Defendant underwent a psychological evaluation by Dr. Ann L.
Walker, PhD, Forensic and Clinical Psychologist. (Stephenson S. Alegre Decl. ¶
9.) Dr. Walker recommended a diagnosis of Severe Stimulant Abuse Disorder as a
result of Defendant’s methamphetamine use. (Stephenson S. Alegre Decl. ¶ 9, Ex.
C at pp. 6-7.)
 
According to the proof of service filed on April 2, 2024,
Plaintiff was personally served with the First Amended Complaint and summons on
February 27, 2022.
 
Defendant’s wife, Gabbie O. Watson, was personally served
with Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) and summons on March 12, 2024.
 
Upon receiving the FAC, Defendant’s wife, Gabbie Watson, and
daughter, Stephanie Watson Alegre, visited the Los Angeles County Law Library,
where a librarian helped them look up this case and informed them of an
upcoming Case Management Conference (“CMC”) set for April 10, 2024. (Gabbie O.
Watson Decl. ¶ 4.)
 
Defendant attended the April 10, 2024 CMC. (Stephenson S.
Alegre Decl. ¶ 10.) Defendant had used methamphetamine on the day prior.
(Stephenson S. Alegre Decl. ¶ 10.) Defendant recalls being generally confused
at what was being said at the CMC by the Court and by counsel for Plaintiff.
(Stephenson S. Alegre Decl. ¶ 10.) Following the CMC, Defendant believed that
he needed to appear with a lawyer at the next CMC, scheduled for June 21, 2024.
(Stephenson S. Alegre Decl. ¶ 10.) Defendant did not understand that he had do
take any other action – including filing an answer – prior to that date.
(Stephenson S. Alegre Decl. ¶ 10.) 
Defendant also suffers from bipolar disorder and stimulant use
disorder.  (Stephenson S. Alegre Decl. ¶
9.)
 
Defendant did not file an answer prior to the next CMC. On
May 13, 2024, default was entered against Defendant.
 
On August 6, 2024, Defendant moved to set aside the entry of
default. Plaintiff filed an opposition and Defendant filed a reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
Permissive Relief Under Code of Civil Procedure, section 473 (b) 
 
The trial court has discretion to “relieve a party or his or
her legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473 (b).) Such an application shall be
accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed in
replacement of the pleading being set aside and shall be made within six months
after the judgment, dismissal, order, or other pleading for which dismissal is
being sought. (Ibid.) 
 
Mandatory Relief under Code of Civil Procedure, section 473 (b) 
 
Where a defendant in default moves for relief from default,
judgment, or other dismissal against them entered as the result of her
attorney’s mistake and “no more than six months” have passed since the entry of
judgment, the court shall grant such relief as is requested, provided
the motion satisfies all procedural requirements and the court does not find
that the entry of default was caused by something other than the attorney's
mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473 (b).)
 
Discussion
 
Defendant’s declaration states that he did not understand
what was happening at the April 10, 2024 CMC and therefore did not understand
that he needed to file an answer.  This
declaration creates a prima facie showing that Defendant defaulted in this case
due to mistake and inadvertence. Defendant believed that he only needed to
retain an attorney by the time of the next CMC, which he in fact did, showing
that Defendant intended to defend this case.
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s failure to timely respond
to the FAC and the fact that Defendant only retained an attorney days before
the second CMC “shows calculated and systemic carelessness of Defendant,”
barring relief from default. The Court disagrees. While the record may reflect
evidence of carelessness, it does not appear to be calculated. Rather, it
appears to be the inadvertent result of Defendant’s diagnosed bipolar disorder
and stimulant use.  
 
The Court therefore finds that permissive relief from
default is appropriate here and grants Defendant’s motion.