 Case Number:  22STCV29610    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



HEATHER ALTEPETER, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
ASH PATEL, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  22STCV29610
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 26, 2024
 Calendar Number:  4



 
 
 
Defendants Ash Patel, Shahzad Khan, Houri Simon, John
Friedemann, and Commercial Bank of California (“CBC”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) move for terminating sanctions against Plaintiff Heather
Altepeter (“Plaintiff”) or, alternatively, evidentiary sanctions prohibiting
Plaintiff from introducing evidence that she had a depositor account with CBC
or evidence of agents that Plaintiff claims to have lost due to CBC’s alleged
actions. Defendants additionally seek monetary sanctions in the amount of
$37,739.50.
 
The Court DENIES the motion for terminating sanctions.
 
The Court GRANTS the motion for evidentiary sanctions. 
 
The Court GRANTS CBC’s request for monetary sanctions in the
amount of $17,975.00. Plaintiff shall pay this amount to CBC’s attorney within
30 days of the issuance of this order.
 
Background
 
 
The Court takes certain of the background facts from the
recently-litigated motion for summary papers filed by the parties.
Plaintiff is the owner and CEO of National Merchants
Association, Inc. (“NMA”). NMA provides electronic payment processing services
to businesses. CBC served as NMA’s sponsor bank. Plaintiff alleges that CBC
misled her into a business relationship whereby CBC learned and usurped
proprietary information, industry connections, trade secrets, and business
strategies from Plaintiff.
 
Around March 1, 2017, CBC and NMA entered into the first of
three Merchant Marketing and Processing Agreements (“MMPA”s”). (Additional
Material Fact (“AMF”) 11.) The parties experienced some difficulties in the
process of rolling out their relationship, and although the parties continued
to move forward, NMA also sought out other banking partners to facilitated a
smoother relationship. (AMF 12.) 
 
In March 2019, MUFG Union Bank (“Union Bank”) filed a
lawsuit against NMA, Plaintiff, and her other business entities. (Undisputed
Material Fact (“UMF”) 8.) Union Bank obtained an order appointing a receiver to
oversee NMA’s operation. That receiver, Howard Grobstein, terminated
Plaintiff’s role and employment as CEO of NMA in October 2019. 
 
Following a settlement with Union Bank, Grobstein was
removed as the receiver and Plaintiff regained her prior position in NMA.
However, CBC provided Plaintiff with a ‘take it or leave it’ Amended Temporary
MMPA. (AMF 29.) Plaintiff contends that CBC coerced her into entering the
agreement. The new MMPA was executed on April 14, 2020. (AMF 29.) On April 27,
2020, Plaintiff received compensation form NMA for the first time since her
removal as CEO. 
 
Plaintiff was not given access to NMA’s company data and
merchant activity records until May 5, 2020. (AMF 30.) When she obtained
access, Plaintiff contends that she discovered that, during her absence, CBC
had attempted to steer merchant accounts with NMA to other sponsored payment
processing organizations. (AMF 31.)
 
NMA eventually identified Evolve Bank as its new sponsor
bank. CBC ported NMA’s merchant portfolio to Evolve by the beginning of
November 2020. (UMF 17.) Neither Plaintiff nor NMA have held any business
relationship with CBC since at least January 1, 2021. (UMF 18.) Plaintiff has
not held any depository account at CBC in her own name since at least 2019.
(UMF 19.)
 
In December 2021, NMA filed an action (the “NMA Action”)
against CBC in the Los Angeles County Superior Court, Case No. 21STCV44674.
(UMF 26.) NMA raised claims for breach of written agreement, breach of
contract, breach of the covenant of good faith and fair dealing, unjust
enrichment, unfair business practices, promissory fraud, and rescission of the
April 14, 2020 MMPA. (UMF 26.) The court ordered the NMA Action to a judicial
reference on March 8, 2022. (UMF 27.) Shortly before trial in the NMA Action, NMA
filed a request for dismissal, and the NMA Action was dismissed on February 8,
2023. (UMF 28.)
 
Plaintiff filed this action on April 29, 2022. The operative
complaint is now the First Amended Complaint, which raises claims for (1)
unfair business practices; (2) intentional interference with prospective
economic relations; (3) negligent interference with prospective economic
relations; (4) intentional interference with prospective contractual relations;
(5) inducing breach of contract; and (6) negligence.
 
Plaintiff names as Defendants CBC; Patel, as CBC’s President
and Chairman (FAC ¶ 80); Khan, as its Executive Vice President, Chief Growth
and Strategy Officer (FAC ¶ 81); Simon, as Executive Vice President, Payment
Solutions (FAC ¶ 82); Friedemann, as CBC’s General Counsel (FAC ¶ 83); Pinge,
as Executive Vice President, Chief Risk Officer of CB Cal (FAC ¶ 84); Mr.
Meruelo, as the founder of CBC and a member of its Board of Directors (FAC ¶
85); and McCullough, as CBC’s Executive Vice President, Executive Administration
(CBC ¶ 86).
 
Plaintiff moved for leave to file a Second Amended Complaint
joining NMA as a party, but the Court denied the motion on September 12, 2023.
(UMF 29.)
 
Defendants moved for summary judgment on April 4, 2024.
Plaintiff filed an opposition and Defendants filed a reply. 
 
On June 20, 2024, the Court granted the summary judgment motion
as to Plaintiff’s first and fifth claims and as to three other defendants. The
Court denied the motion as to Plaintiff’s remaining claims. In denying the
motion as to the second, third, and fourth claims, the Court relied on
declarations submitted by Plaintiff indicating that, as a result of CBC’s
actions, a number of agents had directed their business away from NMA and to
competitors. Although the Court concluded  that Plaintiff could not raise claims on
behalf of NMA, the Court found that Plaintiff could assert personal claims for
damage to her own reputation – of which the lost business was evidence. In
denying the motion as to the sixth claim, the Court relied on Plaintiff’s
counsel’s representations that Plaintiff had personally deposited money with
CBC in the past, and that CBC therefore had a duty of care to Plaintiff when
moving money involving Plaintiff’s personal deposits.
 
On June 25, 2024, CBC served its second sets of Requests for
Production and Special Interrogatories on Plaintiff. This set of discovery was
targeted at the theories that the Court relied on to partially deny the summary
judgment motion. The interrogatories sought to identify the personal agent
relationships that Defendants had allegedly interfered with, the alleged damages
to Plaintiff’s net worth, and the basis for her claim that her reputation was
damaged. The document requests sought agreements between Plaintiff and agents
with which Plaintiff claimed Defendants interfered, as well as financial
statements supporting Plaintiff’s damages and proof of a personal depositor
account with CBC. Despite repeated meet and confer efforts by CBC, Plaintiff
still has not responded to this written discovery.
 
On July 12, 2024, CBC noticed Plaintiff’s deposition for
July 24, 2024. Plaintiff did not appear for her deposition. The Court issued ex
parte orders on July 30, 2024 and August 6, 2024 for Plaintiff to appear for
her deposition.
 
On August 23, 2024, Plaintiff appeared for her deposition.
At her deposition, Plaintiff testified that she could not name a single agent
who left NMA because of CBC’s actions. (Rome Del., Ex. 6 at pp. 49:11-14, 18;
34:5-8, 10.) Plaintiff testified that NMA’s revenue increased in 2020 and 2021,
the two years after Plaintiff alleges that Defendants interfered with her
contractual relationships. (Rome Del., Ex. 6 at p. 87:2-3, 6-7, 17-20.)
Plaintiff testified that she could not recall whether she had ever had a
personal bank account at CBC. (Rome Del., Ex. 6 at p. 92:19-22.) 
 
Legal Standard
 
Where a party misuses the discovery process, courts have
discretion to impose terminating, issue, evidence, or monetary sanctions. (Code
Civ. Proc. §§ 2023.010(g), 2030.290(c); R.S. Creative, Inc. v. Creative
Cotton, Ltd. (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 486, 495.) Misuse of the discovery
process includes failure to respond to an authorized method of discovery or
disobeying a court order to provide discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2023.010(d), (g).)        
 
Monetary sanctions may be imposed “ordering that one engaging in
the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or
both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone
as a result of that conduct…unless [the Court] finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code of Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.030, subd. (a).) 
 
Evidence sanctions may be imposed “by an order prohibiting any
party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process from introducing
designated matters in evidence.” (Code of Civ. Proc.,
§ 2030.030, subd. (c).) 
 
In more extreme cases, the Court may also impose terminating
sanctions by “striking out the pleadings or parts of the pleadings,” “staying
further proceedings,” “dismissing the action, or any part of the action,” or
“rending a judgment by default” against the party misusing the discovery
process. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 2030.030(d).) The court should look to
the totality of the circumstances in determining whether terminating sanctions
are appropriate.  (Lang v. Hochman (2000) 77¿Cal.App.4th 1225,
1246.) Ultimate discovery sanctions are justified where there is a
willful discovery order violation, a history of abuse, and evidence showing
that less severe sanctions would not produce compliance with discovery rules. (Van
Sickle v. Gilbert (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1495, 1516.) “[A] penalty as
severe as dismissal or default is not authorized where noncompliance with
discovery is caused by an inability to comply rather than willfulness or bad
faith.” (Brown v. Sup. Ct. (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 701, 707.) Further,
preventing parties from presenting their cases on the merits is a drastic
measure; terminating sanctions should only be ordered when there has been
previous noncompliance with a rule or order and it appears a less severe
sanction would not be effective. (Link v. Cater (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th
1315, 1326.) 
 
Before any sanctions may be imposed the court must make an
express finding that there has been a willful failure of the party to serve the
required answers. (Fairfield v. Superior Court for Los Angeles County
(1966) 246 Cal.App.2d 113, 118.) Lack of diligence may be deemed willful where
the party understood its obligation, had the ability to comply, and failed to
comply. (Deyo v. Killbourne (1978) 84 Cal.App.3d 771, 787.) The party
who failed to comply with discovery obligations has the burden of showing that
the failure was not willful. (Id. at 788.) 
 
Discussion
 
Entitlement to Sanctions
 
It is undisputed that Plaintiff has failed to respond to
CBC’s written discovery.
 
Plaintiff argues that the Court should grant her relief
under Code of Civil Procedure, section 473, subd. (b), which permits the Court
to relieve a party from a judgment or order taken as a result of the party’s
mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect. For the reasons discussed below,
the Court finds that such relief is not appropriate.
 
Plaintiff states in her opposition that “Plaintiff is unable
to adequately respond to this motion, nor the outstanding discovery referenced
in Defendants’ pending Motion.” (Opposition at p. 1: 24-26.)
 
“Plaintiff
acknowledges it has missed deadlines, has requested extensions on the same
basis as stated above which have not been granted in this, as well as other
matters in other jurisdictions, and has attempted on multiple occasions to meet
and confer with Defendants’ counsel to no avail. Without pointing fingers in a
manner that is unprofessional, Plaintiff simply cannot compromise herself, nor
her personal well-being by addressing all these issues at this time. Given the
pending Motion was not filed under seal, it raises serious concerns pertaining
to Plaintiff’s ability to navigate the numerous existing matters.
 
As a
result of the Rome LLP’s recent involvement in this matter, and that same
firm’s involvement with the agents referenced in the Court’s Minute Order
regarding Defendants’ denied Motion for Summary Judgment on June 20, 2024,
Plaintiff is unable to adequately oppose this. 
 
Plaintiff
is left without a choice but to seek to either (1) seek the disqualification of
Defendants’ counsel, (2) seek to consolidate matters from various jurisdictions
and/or (3) move to reopen discovery to further investigate the impact of Rome
LLP’s involvement in this matter on the other matters stated in Ms. Altepeter’s
concurrently filed declaration.” 
 
(Opposition at p. 2:3-17.)
 
            Plaintiff
states in her declaration that she was informed, by someone who she does not
name, that the person’s attorney, Eugene Rome (who also represents Defendants),
was coming after her to recover funds from NMA. (Altepeter Decl. ¶ 17.)
Plaintiff states that in the time since, she has been photographed in public by
strangers on multiple occasions and now fears for her safety and is concerned
that she is being investigated privately. (Altepeter Decl. ¶¶ 27-29.)
 
            Plaintiff
identifies no authority indicating that these assertions or the existence of
related litigation are bases to fail to respond to discovery. Plaintiff has not
explained how the above matters affect her ability to provide discovery
regarding business and financial matters. 
 
Plaintiff argues that the discovery is barred by the
attorney duty of confidentiality. That duty does not prevent disclosure here
because the fact discovery at issue pertains directly to factual issues that
Plaintiff herself will need to prove at trial.
 
            The
rest of Plaintiff’s opposition is similarly vague as to the reasons why
Plaintiff still has not responded to CBC’s written discovery. The factual
record shows that some of the initial delay – through August 5, 2024 – may have
been attributable to a medical emergency on the part of Plaintiff’s counsel.
However, that does not explain the continued failure to respond.
 
            Plaintiff’s
deposition testimony also raises concerns. Plaintiff’s testimony that she could
not recall any agents who left NMA and could not recall whether she ever had a
personal account with CBC seems to indicate that Plaintiff’s counsel never had
a factual basis for representing to the Court that each of those assertions
were true. If those factual assertions were unsupported, it would also
implicate the Court’s basis for denying summary judgment as to Plaintiff’s
remaining claims in this case.
 
The Court finds that Plaintiff’s statement that she cannot
respond to the written discovery shows a willful failure to respond. Further,
the revelation that Plaintiff’s factual theories which protected her claims
from summary judgment were apparently unsupported creates an appearance of bad
faith on Plaintiff’s part. This cannot be attributed to mistake, inadvertence,
or excusable neglect.
 
Terminating Sanctions
 
            As
discussed above, terminating sanctions are justified where there is a willful
discovery order violation, a history of abuse, and evidence showing that less
severe sanctions would not produce compliance with discovery rules. (Van
Sickle v. Gilbert, supra, 196 Cal.App.4th at p. 1516.) Furthermore, terminating
sanctions should only be ordered when there has been previous noncompliance
with a rule or order and it appears a less severe sanction would not be
effective. (Link v. Cater, supra, 60 Cal.App.4th at p.
1326.) 
 
There has not been any past noncompliance with a discovery
order. Thus, terminating sanctions are not appropriate here.
 
Evidentiary Sanctions
 
“[V]iolation of a discovery order is not a prerequisite to
issue and evidentiary sanctions when the offending party has engaged in a
pattern of willful discovery abuse that causes the unavailability of evidence.”
(Karlsson v. Ford Motor Co. (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1202, 1215.) “Because
the discovery cut off had passed, and because trial was imminent, [the
propounding parties] lost the opportunity to explore fully any leads obtained
from discovery that should have been produced. …. Evidence, thus, was not available
to those parties. Lesser sanctions would have been futile because [the
responding party] no longer had the legal capability to correct its earlier
abuses.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s conduct has shown a pattern of willful
discovery abuse. The discovery cutoff has passed. Trial, scheduled for October
14, 2024, is imminent. Plaintiff’s ongoing refusal to respond to CBC’s written
discovery has foreclosed CBC’s ability to conduct any follow-up discovery based
on Plaintiff’s initial responses. Further, there is a high risk that CBC would
have to go to trial still missing key evidence on factual issues that are
make-or-break for Plaintiff’s claims. As a result, evidentiary sanctions are
necessary.
 
            Defendants
request that the Court grant evidentiary sanctions prohibiting Plaintiff from
introducing evidence that she had a depositor account with CBC or evidence of
agents that Plaintiff claims to have lost due to CBC’s alleged actions. The
Court grants these sanctions.
 
Monetary Sanctions
 
Defendants request monetary sanctions in the amount of $37,739.50.
The Court finds that monetary sanctions are appropriate. However, this amount
is excessive. Defendants request fees for four different attorneys who worked
on this motion. The time expended includes figures such as 8 hours to be spent
by Eugene Rome drafting a reply, and 4.2 hours spent by Theresa Kananen to
draft a declaration that is slightly over a page long.
 
The Court finds that Rome’s hourly rate of $695.00 is
reasonable. The Court awards a total of 25.0 hours for Rome. The Court finds
that Kananen’s hourly rate of $600.00 is reasonable. The Court awards 1.0 hours
for Kananen.
 
            The
Court awards a total of $17,975.00 in monetary sanctions.
 