  Case Number:  21STCV46389    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  72   SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES   DEPARTMENT 72   TENTATIVE  RULING      PACIFIC GREEN, LLC, et al.,                                      Plaintiffs,             v.     PAUL FIORE, et al.,                                     Defendants.      Case No:     21STCV46389            Hearing Date:  September 26, 2024  Calendar Number:  13 (Tent. #1)          Defendants Alex Reyter (“Reyter”) and Tudor Capital, LLC  (“Tudor”) (collectively, the “Reyter Parties”) demur to the Fifth Amended  Complaint (“5AC”) filed by Plaintiffs Pacific Green, LLC (“Pacific Green”) and  Big Tree Holdings, LLC (“Big Tree”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”).    The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to Plaintiffs’ third claim  for fraudulent inducement to enter into contract WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.   The Court OVERRULES the demurrer with respect to the  remaining claims.   Background   The following allegations are taken from the 5AC except  where otherwise noted.   This is an action between Plaintiffs Pacific Green and Big  Tree; and Defendants Paul Fiore (“Fiore”); One Eleven Advisors, LLC (“One  Eleven”); Rebel Holdings LLC (“Rebel”); Jay Rifkin (“Rifkin”), Hills Group, LLC  (“Hills Group”); Hills One LLC (“H. One LLC”); Reyter, and Tudor (collectively,  “Defendants”).   This case arises out of a cannabis investment project gone  awry. In about 2017, Reyter, Fiore, and Rifkin (collectively, the “Principals”)  decided to enter the cannabidiol (“CBD”) market and seek investors. They formed  Hills Group.    Additionally, Fiore owns and manages One Eleven; Rifkin owns  and manages Rebel; and Reyter manages Tudor.   Plaintiffs allege that the Principals did not have  experience, expertise, or connections in the CBD industry, and that they  therefore falsely represented themselves to investors as being highly  experienced and well-connected in the CBD industry in order to gain investors.   Around January or February 2018, Reyter began speaking with  Jacob Stein, the manager of both Plaintiffs Pacific Green and, eventually, Big  Tree. Over the course of the ensuing months, the Principals, primarily through  Reyter, allegedly made a number of false representations to Stein, including  that Hills Group and H. One LLC had received substantial investment, that the  principals had invested certain amounts of money in H. One LLC, that Hills Group  controlled other companies of certain values, that Hills Group owned an  industrial production plant in Oregon for its venture, and that the Principals  would all devote nearly all of their time to manage the venture.   Plaintiff Pacific Green was incorporated on April 3, 2018  and Plaintiff Big Tree was incorporated on June 13, 2018. (See Fiore’s Request  for Judicial Notice in Support of Demurrer to 4AC, Ex. 2, 3.)   On July 16, 2018, Pacific Green and Tree Holdings entered  into a written agreement with Hills Group entitled “Limited Liability Company  Agreement – Hills One, LLC” (the “Agreement”). (5AC ¶ 95, Ex. A.) This  Agreement provided for the governance of H. One LLC, which had been formed by  filing a certificate of formation shortly beforehand on March 29, 2018. (5AC,  Ex. A.)   Stein delivered an initial payment of $1 million in  investment funds from Plaintiffs to the Principals’ enterprise pursuant to the  Agreement. Pacific Green made additional payments of $1.7 million on September  28, 2018, $1 million on December 10, 2018, and $1 million on January 23, 2019.   Section 15.11 of the Agreement states, in part: “All issues  and questions concerning the application, construction, validity,  interpretation and enforcement of the Agreement shall be governed by and  construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Delaware…”  However, section 15.12 of the Agreement states, in part, that any “dispute,  claim or controversy, arising out of or relating to [the] Agreement and/or a  Member’s investment in the Company or in an investment opportunity or to the  rights, duties and obligations of the parties arising out of or relating to  this Agreement” (subd. b) “shall be determined in accordance with the  substantive laws of the State of California and the procedural laws of the  State of California…” (Subd. d.)   (5AC, Ex. A.)   Defendants’ enterprise generated almost no revenue.   Plaintiffs allege that the Principals failed to tend to the  day-to-day operations of H. One LLC or devote sufficient time to their  management duties. Plaintiffs allege that the Principals infrequently traveled  to Oregon. Plaintiffs allege that in 2019, Fiore and Rifkin reduced their work  for the business “to the point where they were more like passive investors than  active managers.” (4AC ¶ 152.)   Plaintiffs also allege a number of acts of mismanagement.  Plaintiffs allege that Rifkin usurped a number of hemp business opportunities  and took investment money for his own purposes or engaged in self-dealing on a  number of occasions.   Conversely, Defendants contend that the business failed  because a third-party supplier mistakenly shipped them a batch of CBD oil with  a THC content above the federal limit, resulting in the seizure of most of  their business assets by law enforcement. Defendants contend that Key  Compounds LLC v. Phasex Corporation (D. Or., Aug. 31, 2021, No.  6:20-CV-00680-AA) 2021 WL 3891586, at *3 lays out these facts. However, the  procedural posture of Key Compounds was that of a motion to dismiss,  where federal courts accept the pleaded facts as true, much like on a demurrer.  Thus, the Court could not rely on the Key Compounds court’s acceptance  of the facts of the facts as pleaded there in order to contradict the  allegations of the 4AC here, even assuming that consideration of the contents  of the decision would otherwise be proper.   Plaintiffs filed this action in the Los Angeles Superior  Court on December 20, 2021. On November 30, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a First  Amended Complaint (“1AC”). On December 12, 2022, Rebel filed a notice of  removal to federal court. The federal court granted pleading motions as to the  1AC, Second Amended Complaint (“2AC”), and Third Amended Complaint (“3AC”).    Plaintiffs then filed the Fourth Amended Complaint (“4AC”),  naming all of the Moving Defendants as well as Reyter and Tudor. (Defendants  Reyter and Tudor are not among the parties who have filed demurrers.)  The 4AC raises claims for (1) fraud and  deceit; (2) negligent misrepresentations; (3) Civil RICO Violation under 18  U.S.C. §§ 1961, et seq.; (4) fraudulent inducement to enter into contract  (against all defendants except H. One LLC); (5) breach of contract (against  Hills Group); (6) negligence as a derivative claim (against Hills Group); (7)  conversion (against Fiore, Rifkin, Reyter, and Hills Group); and (8) aiding and  abetting torts.   On February 12, 2024, the federal court dismissed the RICO  claim and issued a notice of remand, returning the case to this Court.               On  May 31, 2024, the Court sustained Hill’s One’s demurrer to the 4AC claims  against it without leave to amend. The Court sustained the demurrers of Fiore,  One Eleven, Rebel, Rifkin and Hills Group in part and with leave to amend.               The  operative complaint is now the 5AC. The 5AC names Hills One as a nominal  defendant only, and names the remaining Defendants as well. The 5AC raises  claims for (1) fraud and deceit; (2) negligent misrepresentations; (3)  fraudulent inducement to enter into contract; (4) [listed as 5] breach of  contract (against Hills Group); (5) [listed as 6] negligence as a derivative  claim (against Hills Group); (6) [listed as 7] conversion (against Fiore,  Rifkin, Reyter, and Hills Group); and (7) [listed as 8] aiding and abetting  torts.               The  Reyter Parties demurred to the 5AC on August 26, 2024. Plaintiffs filed an  opposition and the Reyter Parties filed a reply.   Requests for Judicial Notice   The Court grants the Reyter Parties’ request for judicial  notice as to its May 31, 2024 minute order on the demurrers to the 4AC.   The Court grants the Reyter Parties’ request for judicial  notice as to Exhibit F, the website of Aliant Law, LLP, where the Reyter  Parties contend that Plaintiffs’ manager Jacob Stein admits that he has  extensive transactional experience. However, the truth of the content of this  webpage is not beyond dispute and is therefore not appropriate for judicial  notice.   Evidentiary Objections   The Court overrules Plaintiffs’ evidentiary objections to  the Wagner declaration and its attached exhibits (Exhibits A through C). However,  for the reasons discussed below, the Court does not find Exhibits A through C  appropriate for consideration on demurrer.   The Court sustains Plaintiffs’ evidentiary objections to  Exhibit F on the grounds that it cannot be judicially noticed for the truth of  its contents.   Legal Standard   Demurrer   As a general matter, in a demurrer, the defects must be  apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)  116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not  the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab,  Inc. v. Accountants, Inc.  Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The court assumes the truth of  the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is  concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of  action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)   Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be  allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,  348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be  amended successfully. (Ibid.;  Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f  there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause  of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.  (1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).     Discussion   The Court Will Not Consider the Emails Attached to the Wagner Declaration  on Demurrer   The Reyter Parties argue that the Court can consider the  emails attached as Exhibits A, B, and C to the Wagner declaration because those  emails are referenced in the 5AC. The Reyter Parties have not provided binding  authority in support of this proposition.   The Reyter Parties cite City of Port Hueneme v. Oxnard  Harbor Dist. (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 511, 514 for the proposition that  “[courts] may also consider material documents referred to in the allegations  of the complaint.” City of Port Hueneme v. Oxnard Harbor Dist. (2007)  146 Cal.App.4th 511, 514. This statement of the court was only dicta – there  was no suggestion that either party offered evidence referenced, but not  included, in the complaint. Further, City of Port Hueneme relied on Blank  v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318, for that proposition – but Blank v.  Kirwan contains no such statement at that citation. (See Blank v. Kirwan  (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) The Reyter Parties provide Sams v. Yahoo!  Inc. (9th Cir. 2013) 713 F.3d 1175, 1179 in their reply – but that  case was resolved in federal court, which does not use the same rules of civil  procedure or evidence as California courts.   It is true that “ ‘False allegations of fact, inconsistent  with annexed documentary exhibits [citation] or contrary to facts judicially  noticed [citation], may be disregarded[.]’ ” (Hoffman v. Smithwoods RV Park,  LLC (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 390, 400.) But the Reyter Parties have not  provided a basis for the Court to consider documents that are not  attached to a complaint, but merely mentioned or quoted in it.   The Court therefore finds that it is inappropriate to consider  Exhibits A, B, and C to the Wagner declaration on a demurrer.  Moreover, in the context of this case, these  emails are evidentiary and require context and further factual development.   The Court also notes that, even if the Court were to  consider Exhibits A, B, and C, they would not change the Court’s decision  overruling the demurrer. While the attached emails might arguably refute  Plaintiffs’ allegations of representations by email, they do not refute the  allegations of verbal representations. Furthermore, the emails do appear to  contain at least some of the alleged representations. The August 17, 2018 email  states that “We successfully soft-launched www.nature-rx.com  at the end of July 2018 and have validated the entire transactional flow from  order management (ShipStation) and credit card processing (T1) to warehouse  management and delivery to customer (ShipBob). A number of orders were  placed and delivered to various destinations (e.g. CA, NY, Chicago, N.Carolina,  etc.).” (Wagner Decl., Ex. A [alleged representation italicized]; compare  5AC ¶ 125.) The November 4, 2019 email states “We completed the harvest today,  and we have a total of 220,000 pounds of biomass in super sacks. There are  about 75,000 pounds of hand shucked material and the remainder is machine  combined material.” (Wagner Decl., Ex. C; compare 5AC ¶ 136.)     Fraud and Deceit – First Claim   “The elements of  fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or  nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce  reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005)  135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)    The facts  constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to  every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the  pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar  v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege  fraud against a corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons  allegedly making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom  they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.  (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)   Pre-Formation Representations   As discussed in the Court’s order on the demurrers to the  4AC, Plaintiffs cannot rely on representations made before they were formed on  April 3, 2018 for Pacific Green and on June 13, 2018 for Big Tree. However,  Plaintiffs allege that Defendants repeated the alleged representations to Stein  even after Plaintiffs’ formations.   Anti-Reliance Clause   The Reyter Parties argue that Plaintiffs cannot rely on  representations prior to the execution of the Agreement on July 16, 2018  because the Agreement contained an anti-reliance clause. Plaintiffs agree that  an effective anti-reliance clause in a contract precludes pre-execution fraud claims  but argue that the Agreement does not contain an effective anti-reliance  clause.   Plaintiffs argue that the Agreement covers only misrepresentations  about Hills One, but that the representations at issue were actually about  Hills Group. This argument is unavailing. Plaintiffs invested in Hills One, and  not Hills Group. Insofar as Defendants made misrepresentations about Hills  Group (which, as a matter of fact, Defendants represented would be a member of Hills  One and would contribute resources to Hills One), those misrepresentations were  material insofar as they impacted Hills One’s prospects. Thus, any otherwise  actionable misrepresentations, which would necessarily have to pertain to Hills  One’s situation or prospects, would be affected by the anti-reliance clause.  Plaintiffs argue that these facts constitute “external factors” which would  impact the prospects of Hills One, and are therefore not barred. It is unclear why  these factors are uniquely external. The parties, including Plaintiffs, all  contemplated that Hills Group would contribute its resources to Hills One – in  fact, Plaintiffs base their fraud claim in part on representations about Hills  Group’s ability to contribute to Hills One being material to their decision  to invest. Plaintiffs thus necessarily considered that as a factor in Hills  Group’s prospects.   Plaintiffs argue that Delaware law precludes enforcement of  the anti-reliance clause in this case because an effective anti-reliance clause  requires “affirmative expression by [the plaintiff] of (1) specifically what it  was relying on when it decided to enter the [agreement] or (2) that it is was  not relying on any representations made outside of the [agreement].” (FdG  Logistics LLC v. A&R Logistics Holdings, Inc. (Del. Ch. 2016) 131 A.3d  842, 860, aff'd sub nom. A & R Logistics Holdings, Inc. v. FdG Logistics  LLC (Del. 2016) 148 A.3d 1171.)    The relevant portion of the Agreement states as follows:   “(d) Such Member has conducted its own independent review  and analysis of the business,  operations, assets, liabilities, results of operations, financial condition and  prospects of the Company and such Member acknowledges that it has been provided  adequate access to the personnel, properties, premises and records of the  Company for such purpose;   (e) The determination of such Member to acquire Units has  been made by such Member independent of any other Member and independent of  any statements or opinions as to the advisability of such purchase or as to  the business, operations, assets,  liabilities, results of operations, financial condition and prospects of the  Company that may have been made or given by any other Member or by any agent or  employee of any other Member;”   (5AC, Ex. A, § 4.02.)               Thus,  the Agreement satisfies the second disjunctive prong of the rule laid out in FdG  Logistics. The Agreement therefore appears to preclude reliance on  pre-Agreement representations.               Post-Agreement  Representations   Plaintiffs plead a number of allegedly false representations  following the Agreement about the state of the business. (5AC ¶¶ 125, 136.) For  example, Plaintiffs allege that Reyter sent an email on August 27, 2018 stating  that the business was ready to begin operations, when that was not true. (5AC ¶  124.) Plaintiffs allege that the principals, including Reyter, told Stein that  they were devoting their full time and efforts to the business, when that was  not true. (5AC ¶ 126.) Plaintiffs allege that Reyter wrote in an email to Stein  that “A number of orders were placed and delivered to various destinations  (e.g. CA, NY, Chicago, N.Carolina, etc.),” but that that was not true. (5AC ¶  125.) Plaintiffs allege that Reyter later wrote in an email to Stein that a  harvest had been conducted and that a cash flow was imminent. (5AC ¶ 136.)  Plaintiffs similarly allege that that statement was not true. (5AC ¶ 136.)    The Reyter Parties argue that there is no allegation of  reliance.  Plaintiffs allege, however,  that statements discussed above were material to Plaintiffs’ monetary  contributions to the venture.  (5AC ¶  172.)   Plaintiffs have alleged these representations with adequate  specificity as to Reyter.   Tudor Capital   The Reyter Parties argue that Plaintiff has not alleged any  misrepresentations as to Tudor Capital.    Plaintiff’s allege that Reyter was Tudor’s owner, manager,  and agent. (5AC ¶¶ 12, 24.) Plaintiffs allege that Reyter’s conduct was  attributable to Tudor. (5AC ¶¶ 13, 124, 125, 130.) Plaintiffs allege that Tudor  authorized Reyter to make the allegedly false representations that are the  basis of their claims. (5AC ¶¶ 24-25.) Plaintiffs have therefore adequately  alleged Tudor’s liability for Reyter’s representations. The specific terms of  the relationship between Tudor and Reyter is information in the possession of  Defendants, and which Plaintiff cannot reasonably be expected to allege at this  stage.   The Court therefore overrules the demurrer to this claim.    Negligent Misrepresentation – Second Claim   The elements of a cause of action for  negligent misrepresentation include “[m]isrepresentation of a past or existing  material fact, without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, and with  intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of  the truth and justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to  whom it was directed; and resulting damage.” (Hydro-Mill Co., Inc. v. Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates,  Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1145, 1154, quotation marks omitted.) The facts  constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to  every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the  pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar  v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud  against a corporation, the plaintiff must plead the names of the persons  allegedly making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom  they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.  (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)   “California courts  have recognized a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, i.e., a duty  to communicate accurate information, in two circumstances. The first situation  arises where providing false information poses a risk of and results in physical  harm to person or property. The second situation arises where information is  conveyed in a commercial setting for a business purpose.” (Friedman v. Merck & Co. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 454, 477.)    As discussed above, Plaintiffs have adequately alleged that  Reyter made misrepresentations to Plaintiffs, and did so at least in part on  behalf of Tudor. The Court therefore overrules the demurrer as to this claim.   Fraudulent Inducement – Third Claim   “The elements of fraud,” including a cause of action for  fraudulent inducement, “are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation,  concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c)  intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr.  (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The facts constituting the alleged fraud must  be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the  policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be  invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)  12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a corporation, the  plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false  representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said  or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann  v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)   The Reyter Parties do not make any arguments specific to the  fraudulent inducement claim.  However,  they join in the arguments of the other defendants, who have pointed out that  the anti-reliance clause bars Plaintiffs’ fraudulent inducement claim because  the claim is necessarily limited to representations made before Plaintiff  entered the Hills One Agreement.     The Court agrees with this argument by the other defendants.  Accordingly, the Court sustains the demurrer to the third claim without leave  to amend.   Conversion – Sixth Claim   “Conversion is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the  property of another. The elements of a conversion claim are: (1) the  plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the  defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and  (3) damages.” (Lee v. Hanley (2015)  61 Cal.4th 1225, 1240.)   The  Reyter Parties argue that Plaintiff has not alleged that the Reyter Parties  converted any of Plaintiffs’ property.   Plaintiffs have  adequately alleged that Reyter defrauded Plaintiffs out of the post-Agreement  investment money. Plaintiffs allege that Reyter, along with the other  defendants, was responsible for wrongfully obtaining the $4.7 million invested  by Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs allege that each of the defendants took some of  Plaintiffs’ money and retained it. (5AC ¶ 158.) Although the first million  dollars that Plaintiffs paid is alleged to have gone to Hills One, Plaintiffs  allege that the remaining money was taken by all of the Defendants in some  portion.   The Court overrules  the demurrer to this claim.   Aiding and Abetting Torts – Seventh  Claim   Liability for aiding and abetting another’s tort may be  imposed upon a party where that party “(a) knows the other’s conduct  constitutes a breach of duty and gives substantial assistance or encouragement  to the other to so act or (b) gives substantial assistance to the other in  accomplishing a tortious result and the person’s own conduct, separately  considered, constitutes a breach of duty to the third person.” (Casey v. U.S. Bank National Association  (2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1138, 1144.)    The Reyter Defendants argue that this claim fails because no  tort has been alleged. Because the Court finds that Plaintiffs have adequately  alleged their other claims, the Court overrules the demurrer to this claim._________________________________________________________ 

SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA

COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES

 

DEPARTMENT 72

 

TENTATIVE
RULING

 




PACIFIC GREEN, LLC, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
PAUL FIORE, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  21STCV46389
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  September 26, 2024
 Calendar Number:  13
(Tent. #2) 




 

 

 

Defendants Paul Fiore (“Fiore”), One Eleven Advisors, LLC
(“One Eleven”) (collectively, the “Fiore Parties”), Rebel Holdings LLC
(“Rebel”), Jay Rifkin (“Rifkin”) (collectively with Rebel, the “Rifkin
Parties”), and Hills Group, LLC (“Hills Group”) (collectively with all of the
above parties, the “Moving Defendants”) demur to the Fifth Amended Complaint (“5AC”)
filed by Plaintiffs Pacific Green, LLC (“Pacific Green”) and Big Tree Holdings,
LLC (“Big Tree”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”).

 

The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ third claim for fraudulent inducement to enter into contract
WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.

 

The Court OVERRULES
the demurrer with respect to the remaining claims.

 

Background

 

The following allegations are taken from the 5AC except
where otherwise noted.

 

This is an action between Plaintiffs Pacific Green and Big
Tree; and Defendants Paul Fiore (“Fiore”); One Eleven Advisors, LLC (“One
Eleven”); Rebel Holdings LLC (“Rebel”); Jay Rifkin (“Rifkin”), Hills Group, LLC
(“Hills Group”); Hills One LLC (“H. One LLC”); Reyter, and Tudor (collectively,
“Defendants”).

 

This case arises out of a cannabis investment project gone
awry. In about 2017, Reyter, Fiore, and Rifkin (collectively, the “Principals”)
decided to enter the cannabidiol (“CBD”) market and seek investors. They formed
Hills Group. 

 

Additionally, Fiore owns and manages One Eleven; Rifkin owns
and manages Rebel; and Reyter manages Tudor.

 

Plaintiffs allege that the Principals did not have
experience, expertise, or connections in the CBD industry, and that they
therefore falsely represented themselves to investors as being highly
experienced and well-connected in the CBD industry in order to gain investors.

 

Around January or February 2018, Reyter began speaking with
Jacob Stein, the manager of both Plaintiffs Pacific Green and, eventually, Big
Tree. Over the course of the ensuing months, the Principals, primarily through
Reyter, allegedly made a number of false representations to Stein, including
that Hills Group and H. One LLC had received substantial investment, that the
principals had invested certain amounts of money in H. One LLC, that Hills
Group controlled other companies of certain values, that Hills Group owned an
industrial production plant in Oregon for its venture, and that the Principals
would all devote nearly all of their time to manage the venture.

 

Plaintiff Pacific Green was incorporated on April 3, 2018
and Plaintiff Big Tree was incorporated on June 13, 2018. (See Fiore’s Request
for Judicial Notice in Support of Demurrer to 4AC, Ex. 2, 3.)

 

On July 16, 2018, Pacific Green and Tree Holdings entered
into a written agreement with Hills Group entitled “Limited Liability Company
Agreement – Hills One, LLC” (the “Agreement”). (5AC ¶ 95, Ex. A.) This
Agreement provided for the governance of H. One LLC, which had been formed by
filing a certificate of formation shortly beforehand on March 29, 2018. (5AC,
Ex. A.)

 

Stein delivered an initial payment of $1 million in
investment funds from Plaintiffs to the Principals’ enterprise pursuant to the
Agreement. Pacific Green made additional payments of $1.7 million on September
28, 2018, $1 million on December 10, 2018, and $1 million on January 23, 2019.

 

Section 15.11 of the Agreement states, in part: “All issues
and questions concerning the application, construction, validity,
interpretation and enforcement of the Agreement shall be governed by and
construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Delaware…”
However, section 15.12 of the Agreement states, in part, that any “dispute,
claim or controversy, arising out of or relating to [the] Agreement and/or a
Member’s investment in the Company or in an investment opportunity or to the
rights, duties and obligations of the parties arising out of or relating to
this Agreement” (subd. b) “shall be determined in accordance with the
substantive laws of the State of California and the procedural laws of the
State of California…” (Subd. d.)

 

(5AC, Ex. A.)

 

Defendants’ enterprise generated almost no revenue.

 

Plaintiffs allege that the Principals failed to tend to the
day-to-day operations of H. One LLC or devote sufficient time to their
management duties. Plaintiffs allege that the Principals infrequently traveled
to Oregon. Plaintiffs allege that in 2019, Fiore and Rifkin reduced their work
for the business “to the point where they were more like passive investors than
active managers.” (4AC ¶ 152.)

 

Plaintiffs also allege a number of acts of mismanagement.
Plaintiffs allege that Rifkin usurped a number of hemp business opportunities
and took investment money for his own purposes or engaged in self-dealing on a
number of occasions.

 

Conversely, Defendants contend that the business failed
because a third-party supplier mistakenly shipped them a batch of CBD oil with
a THC content above the federal limit, resulting in the seizure of most of
their business assets by law enforcement. Defendants contend that Key
Compounds LLC v. Phasex Corporation (D. Or., Aug. 31, 2021, No.
6:20-CV-00680-AA) 2021 WL 3891586, at *3 lays out these facts. However, the
procedural posture of Key Compounds was that of a motion to dismiss,
where federal courts accept the pleaded facts as true, much like on a demurrer.
Thus, the Court could not rely on the Key Compounds court’s acceptance
of the facts of the facts as pleaded there in order to contradict the
allegations of the 4AC here, even assuming that consideration of the contents
of the decision would otherwise be proper.

 

Plaintiffs filed this action in the Los Angeles Superior
Court on December 20, 2021. On November 30, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a First
Amended Complaint (“1AC”). On December 12, 2022, Rebel filed a notice of
removal to federal court. The federal court granted pleading motions as to the
1AC, Second Amended Complaint (“2AC”), and Third Amended Complaint (“3AC”). 

 

Plaintiffs then filed the Fourth Amended Complaint (“4AC”),
naming all of the Moving Defendants as well as Reyter and Tudor. (Defendants
Reyter and Tudor are not among the parties who have filed demurrers.)  The 4AC raises claims for (1) fraud and
deceit; (2) negligent misrepresentations; (3) Civil RICO Violation under 18
U.S.C. §§ 1961, et seq.; (4) fraudulent inducement to enter into contract
(against all defendants except H. One LLC); (5) breach of contract (against
Hills Group); (6) negligence as a derivative claim (against Hills Group); (7)
conversion (against Fiore, Rifkin, Reyter, and Hills Group); and (8) aiding and
abetting torts.

 

On February 12, 2024, the federal court dismissed the RICO
claim and issued a notice of remand, returning the case to this Court.

 

On May 31, 2024, the Court sustained H. One LLC’s demurrer
to the 4AC claims against it without leave to amend. 

 

The Court sustained the demurrers of Fiore, One Eleven,
Rebel, Rifkin and Hills Group to the 4AC in part and with leave to amend. 

 

The Court overruled the demurrer to the claims for fraud and
deceit, negligent misrepresentation, and fraudulent inducement with respect to
Hills Group. The Court overruled the demurrer to the claims for breach of
contract and negligence with respect to all of the moving defendants. The Court
overruled the demurrer to the claim for conversion with respect to Hills Group
and Rifkin. 

 

The Court sustained, with leave to amend, the demurrer to
the claims for fraud and deceit, negligent misrepresentation, and fraudulent
inducement with respect to Fiore, One Eleven, Rebel, and Rifkin. The Court
sustained, with leave to amend, the demurrer to the conversion claim with
respect to Fiore, One Eleven, and Rebel. The Court sustained, with leave to
amend, the claim for aiding and abetting torts with respect to all of the
presently Moving Defendants.

 

            The
operative complaint is now the 5AC. The 5AC names H. One LLC as a nominal
defendant only, and names the remaining Defendants as well. The 5AC raises
claims for (1) fraud and deceit; (2) negligent misrepresentations; (3)
fraudulent inducement to enter into contract; (4) [listed as 5] breach of
contract (against Hills Group); (5) [listed as 6] negligence as a derivative
claim (against Hills Group); (6) [listed as 7] conversion (against Fiore,
Rifkin, Reyter, and Hills Group); and (7) [listed as 8] aiding and abetting
torts.

 

            On
August 26, 2024, the Fiore Parties demurred to the first, second, third, sixth,
and seventh claims in the 5AC.

 

            On
August 26, 2024, Hills Group and the Rifkin Parties demurred to the first,
second, third, fourth, and seventh claims in the 5AC.

 

            The
Moving Defendants state that they join in each other’s demurrers.

 

            Plaintiff
filed a combined opposition to both of the foregoing demurrers. The Fiore
Parties filed a reply. Hills Group and the Rifkin Parties filed a separate
reply.

 

Requests for Judicial Notice

 

The Court grants the Fiore Parties’ requests for judicial
notice and takes notice of the requested court records.

 

Hills Group and the Rifkin Parties request that the Court
take judicial notice of (1) a declaration by Jacob Stein recently filed in a
different Los Angeles Superior Court case, (2) documents referenced in that
Stein declaration in a different declaration that Stein was responding to, and
(3) the First Amended Complaint in that Action filed by an entity in which
Stein is the manager and which attaches as exhibits various loan documents
which Moving Defendants contend show that Stein personally loaned money to H.
One LLC in April 2019, along with an entity for which he is designated as the
person to receive notice.

 

Defendants argue that Courts have sustained demurrers based
on the admissions or inconsistent statements of the pleader in pleadings in a
different lawsuit (Cantu v. Resolution Trust Corp. (1992) 4 CA4th 857,
877-878), affidavits that are part of the court file and are judicially noticed
(Dwan v. Dixon (1963) 216 CA2d 260, 264-265), and declarations opposing
an earlier motion for summary judgment. (Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural
Materials Co. (1981) 123 CA3d 593, 604.)

 

None of those circumstances are present here. Jacob Stein is
not a party to this lawsuit. While Defendants contend that Jacob Stein managed
the entity that is a party in the case from which they seek judicial notice of
records, that does not establish that Stein or the other entity, Opera Bright,
are alter egos of Plaintiffs. Thus, Stein’s declaration in the unrelated
lawsuit is not an admission of either Plaintiff in this lawsuit. Furthermore,
because the affidavits and declarations are not a part of the court record in this
case, they do not satisfy either of the second two circumstances that
Defendants identify.

 

The Court therefore denies the request for judicial notice
filed by Hills Group and the Rifkin Parties.

 

Legal Standard

 

Demurrer

 

As a general matter, in a demurrer, the defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not
the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab,
Inc. v. Accountants, Inc.
Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) The court assumes the truth of
the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The only issue a demurrer is
concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of
action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)

 

Where a demurrer is sustained, leave to amend must be
allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335,
348.) The burden is on the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Ibid.;
Lewis v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) However, “[i]f
there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause
of action, it is error to sustain a demurrer without leave to amend.” (Youngman v. Nevada Irrigation Dist.
(1969) 70 Cal.2d 240, 245).  

 

Discussion

 

Fraud and Deceit – First Claim

 

“The elements of
fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or
nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005)
135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) 

 

The facts
constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to
every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege
fraud against a corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons
allegedly making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom
they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)

 

First, the Court previously overruled the demurrer to this
claim with respect to Hills Group. The Court reiterates that ruling and
overrules the demurrer to this claim with respect to Hills Group.

 

Pre-Formation Representations

 

Defendants argue that Plaintiffs cannot rely on
representations made before they were formed on April 3, 2018 for Pacific Green
and on June 13, 2018 for Big Tree. However, Plaintiffs allege that Defendants
repeated the alleged representations to Stein even after Plaintiffs’
formations.

 

Anti-Reliance Clause

 

Defendants next argue that Plaintiffs cannot rely on
representations prior to the execution of the Agreement on July 16, 2018
because the Agreement contained an anti-reliance clause. Plaintiffs agree that
an effective anti-reliance clause in a contract precludes pre-execution fraud claims
but argue that the Agreement does not contain an effective anti-reliance
clause.

 

Plaintiffs argue that Delaware law precludes enforcement of
the anti-reliance clause in this case because an effective anti-reliance clause
requires “affirmative expression by [the plaintiff] of (1) specifically what it
was relying on when it decided to enter the [agreement] or (2) that it is was
not relying on any representations made outside of the [agreement].” (FdG
Logistics LLC v. A&R Logistics Holdings, Inc. (Del. Ch. 2016) 131 A.3d
842, 860, aff'd sub nom. A & R Logistics Holdings, Inc. v. FdG Logistics
LLC (Del. 2016) 148 A.3d 1171.) 

 

The relevant portion of the Agreement states as follows:

 

“(d) Such Member has conducted its own independent review
and analysis of the

business,
operations, assets, liabilities, results of operations, financial condition and
prospects of the Company and such Member acknowledges that it has been provided
adequate access to the personnel, properties, premises and records of the
Company for such purpose;

 

(e) The determination of such Member to acquire Units has
been made by such

Member independent of any other Member and independent of
any statements or

opinions as to the advisability of such purchase or as to
the business, operations,

assets,
liabilities, results of operations, financial condition and prospects of the
Company that may have been made or given by any other Member or by any agent or
employee of any other Member;”

 

(4AC, Ex. A, § 4.02.)

 

            Thus,
the Agreement satisfies the second disjunctive prong of the rule laid out in FdG
Logistics. The Agreement therefore appears to preclude reliance on
pre-Agreement representations.

 

            Plaintiffs
admit that the anti-reliance clause covered, among other things,
representations about the prospects of H. One LLC. (Opposition at pp.
6:23-7:6.)

 

            Plaintiffs
argue that new allegations in the 5AC clarify why the anti-reliance clauses do
not bar Plaintiffs’ claims over pre-formation representations. However, the new
allegations that Plaintiffs point to are simply a rephrasing of Plaintiffs’
previous argument, which the Court rejected, that the representations at issue
were about Hills Group, and not H. One LLC, and therefore were not
representations about Hills Group’s prospects covered by the anti-reliance
clause.

 

This argument is unavailing. Plaintiffs invested in H. One
LLC, and not Hills Group. Insofar as Defendants made misrepresentations about
Hills Group (which, as a matter of fact, Defendants represented would be a
member of H. One LLC and would contribute resources to H. One LLC), those
misrepresentations were material insofar as they impacted H. One LLC’s
prospects. Thus, any otherwise actionable misrepresentations, which would
necessarily have to pertain to H. One LLC’s situation or prospects, would be
affected by the anti-reliance clause. Plaintiffs argue that these facts
constitute “external factors” which would impact the prospects of H. One LLC,
and are therefore not barred. It is unclear why these factors are
uniquely external. The parties, including Plaintiffs, all contemplated that
Hills Group would contribute its resources to H. One LLC – in fact, Plaintiffs
base their fraud claim in part on representations about Hills Group’s ability
to contribute to H. One LLC being material to their decision to invest.
Plaintiffs thus necessarily considered that as a factor in Hills Group’s
prospects.

 

The Court therefore concludes that Plaintiffs cannot raise
claims as to pre-formation representations.

 

Post-Agreement Representations

 

Plaintiffs plead a number of allegedly false representations
following the Agreement about the state of the business. (5AC ¶¶ 125, 136.)
Plaintiffs allege that Reyter sent an email on August 27, 2018, which had been
reviewed, edited, and approved by all of the Principals, stating that the
business was ready to begin operations, when that was not true. (5AC ¶ 124.)
Plaintiffs allege that the Principals all told Stein that they were devoting
their full time and efforts to the business, when that was not true. (5AC ¶
126.) Plaintiffs allege that Reyter wrote in an August 27, 2018 email, which
had been reviewed, edited, and approved by the principals, to Stein that “A
number of orders were placed and delivered to various destinations (e.g. CA,
NY, Chicago, N.Carolina, etc.)”, but that that was not true. (5AC ¶ 125.) Plaintiffs
allege that Fiore wrote in an October 11, 2018 message to Stein that all of the
Principals were working on-site at H. One LLC’s facility in Albany, Oregon, and
that the principals were lining up new potential investors. (5AC ¶ 127.)

 

Plaintiffs allege that these statements were material to
Plaintiffs’ monetary contributions to the venture.

 

Plaintiffs allege that Rifkin was Rebel’s manager and Fiore
was One Eleven’s manager. Plaintiffs allege that the Principals made the
foregoing representations on behalf of the companies that they managed,
including Rebel, One Eleven, and Hills Group. The exact nature of the
relationship between the Principals and their companies would be necessarily
opaque, especially given the fact that each of the Principals was the manager
of more than one company at the same time. Thus, Plaintiffs cannot reasonably
be expected to plead agency with any greater specificity than they already
have.

 

Plaintiffs have alleged these post-agreement representations
with adequate specificity with respect to Moving Defendants.

 

Pacific Green made payments after some or all of these
representations – specifically, $1.7 million on September 28, 2018, $1 million
on December 10, 2018, and $1 million on January 23, 2019.

 

The Court therefore overrules the demurer to this claim.

 

Negligent Misrepresentation – Second Claim

 

The elements of a cause of action for
negligent misrepresentation include “[m]isrepresentation of a past or existing
material fact, without reasonable ground for believing it to be true, and with
intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact misrepresented; ignorance of
the truth and justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation by the party to
whom it was directed; and resulting damage.” (Hydro-Mill Co., Inc. v. Hayward, Tilton & Rolapp Ins. Associates,
Inc. (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 1145, 1154, quotation marks omitted.) The facts
constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to
every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar
v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud
against a corporation, the plaintiff must plead the names of the persons
allegedly making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom
they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co.
(1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)

 

“California courts
have recognized a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation, i.e., a duty
to communicate accurate information, in two circumstances. The first situation
arises where providing false information poses a risk of and results in physical
harm to person or property. The second situation arises where information is
conveyed in a commercial setting for a business purpose.” (Friedman v. Merck & Co. (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 454, 477.)



 

For the reasons discussed above, Plaintiffs have adequately
alleged post-agreement misrepresentations with respect to Moving Defendants.

 

The Court therefore overrules the
demurrer to this claim.             

 

Fraudulent Inducement to Enter Into Contract – Third Claim

 

“The elements of fraud,” including a cause of action for
fraudulent inducement, “are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation,
concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c)
intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.”
(Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr.
(2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The facts constituting the alleged fraud must
be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the
policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be
invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a corporation, the
plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false
representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said
or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann
v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)

 

Moving Defendants argue that the anti-reliance clause bars
Plaintiffs’ fraudulent inducement claim because the claim is necessarily
limited to any representations that Defendants made before Plaintiffs entered
the H. One LLC Agreement. The Court agrees. Plaintiff raises no specific
arguments in support of this claim other than those raised generally as to the
anti-reliance clause. The Court therefore concludes that this claim is barred
by the anti-reliance clause.

 

The Court sustains the demurrer to this claim without leave
to amend.

 

Breach of Contract – Fourth Claim

 

To state a cause of action for
breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of
the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011)
51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)



 

The Court previously overruled Moving Defendants’ demurrer
to this claim. It is thus unclear why Defendants now demur to it again.

 

Furthermore, Moving Defendants do not provide a legal basis
for their demurrer. Moving Defendants argue that a plaintiff must identify with
specificity the contractual obligations allegedly breached by the defendant. In
support of this specificity requirement, Moving Defendants cite only to
unpublished federal cases, which are not applicable to issues of California
civil procedure. (Rifkin and Hills Group Demurrer at p. 13:9-16.)

 

The Court overrules the demurrer to this claim.

 

Conversion – Sixth Claim

 

“Conversion is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property
of another. The elements of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff’s
ownership or right to possession of the property; (2) the defendant’s
conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property rights; and (3)
damages.” (Lee v. Hanley (2015) 61
Cal.4th 1225, 1240.)



 

Defendants argue
that this claim is defective because money cannot be the subject of a
conversion claim unless there is a specific, identifiable sum at issue
involved. (PCO, Inc. v. Christensen, Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil
& Shapiro, LLP (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 384, 395-96.) However, PCO
Inc. was decided on summary judgment, and not at the pleading stage.
Plaintiffs persuasively argue that courts should not require a plaintiff to
plead an exact dollar figure to state a conversion claim – at least not without
more precise authority dictating as such. Further, Plaintiffs have alleged that
Defendants converted all of the investment money.

 

Plaintiffs have
adequately alleged that Moving Defendants defrauded Plaintiffs out of the
post-Agreement investment money. Plaintiffs allege that Moving Defendants,
along with the other defendants, were responsible for wrongfully obtaining the
$4.7 million invested by Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs allege that each of the
defendants took some of Plaintiffs’ money and retained it. (5AC ¶ 158.)
Although the first million dollars that Plaintiffs paid is alleged to have gone
to H. One LLC, Plaintiffs allege that the remaining money was taken by all of
the Defendants in some portion.

 

The Court overrules
the demurrer to this claim.

 

Aiding and Abetting Torts – Seventh
Claim

 

Liability for aiding and abetting another’s tort may be
imposed upon a party where that party “(a) knows the other’s conduct
constitutes a breach of duty and gives substantial assistance or encouragement
to the other to so act or (b) gives substantial assistance to the other in
accomplishing a tortious result and the person’s own conduct, separately
considered, constitutes a breach of duty to the third person.” (Casey v. U.S. Bank National Association
(2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 1138, 1144.)

 



With respect to the
other Moving Defendants, the Court previously sustained the demurrer because Plaintiffs’
allegations stated only the legal conclusions that Defendants knew about the tortious
conduct and assisted in and encouraged it. While Plaintiffs need not plead
evidentiary facts or meet the plausibility standard of federal courts, they
must still plead ultimate facts that in fact indicate that such conduct
occurred.

 

Defendants argue that Plaintiffs still fail to plead that
moving Defendants substantially assisted Reyter with respect to his
misstatements. The Court disagrees. Plaintiff has alleged that each of the
Principals reviewed, edited, and approved Reyter’s emails in which the alleged
misrepresentations were made. Further, Plaintiffs have alleged that the
Principals each made oral misrepresentations in person. Plaintiffs have also
alleged that Fiore separately represented that the Principals were working
on-site at H. One LLC’s facility.

 

The Court therefore overrules the demurrer to this claim.