  Case Number:  21STCV21273    Hearing Date:   August 13, 2024    Dept:  74 Richard  Conell v. Transdev Services, Inc., et al. Motion for Summary Judgment or, in  the Alternative, Summary Adjudication             This  action arises from an employment dispute. On June 8, 2021, Plaintiff Richard  Conell (Plaintiff) filed a complaint against Transdev Services, Inc.  (Transdev), Transdev North America, Inc. (TNAI), and Timothy Grensavitch (Grensavitch) (collectively, “Defendants”).             On  February 9, 2023, Defendants timely filed this motion for summary judgment or,  in the alternative, summary adjudication.             All  evidentiary objections are preserved.             First  Cause of Action for Race Discrimination  The court finds that Defendants have met  their initial burden of showing that they had legitimate, nondiscriminatory  reasons for Plaintiff’s termination. According to Defendants’ evidence,  Plaintiff admitted during his deposition that on April 26, 2020, he was  involved in an accident when he hit a pole while driving a bus. (Scott Decl.,  Ex. F, Plaintiff’s Depo. Vol. II, p. 292:21-25, 293:8-22.) Transdev’s Safety  Policies & Procedures manual states that employees are subject to  termination following a preventable accident causing extreme property damage. (Id.  at pp. 177:18-178:6.) The burden thus shifts to Plaintiff to  show that a triable issue exists regarding his race discrimination claim.  Plaintiff successfully does so. Plaintiff submits evidence (1) that a Hispanic  driver hit a pole but was not fired (Russel Decl., Ex. 1, Chavira Dep.  110:16-111:6; 112:2-14); (2) a white driver had more than three accidents  mandating termination under Safety Policies and Procedures but was not  terminated because the general manager “would hate to lose an employee based on  those accidents” (Plaintiff’s Compendium of Evidence (PCOE), Ex. 11, TRANSDEV  000458); (3) the fact that a driver was white was taken into account for  disciplinary action (Id. at TRANSDEV 000504-505); (4) uncertainty whether the damage to  the bus was extreme, in which case Plaintiff would not have violated  Defendant’s safety procedures; (SUDF 17);   and, evidence suggesting one of the supervisors in question could have  pressured Defendants to raise the price of estimated bus damage to furnish  grounds for Plaintiff’s termination. (Russell Decl., ¶¶  31, 32; Ex. 30, 185:5-7; Ex. 31, 00363-364.). Accordingly, the court denies summary  adjudication of the first cause of action for race discrimination.   Second Cause of Action for Racial  Harassment  Defendants  contend plaintiff’s cause of action for racial harassment is time-barred because  Plaintiff cannot base his FEHA claims on conduct before June 8, 2018. In  opposition, Plaintiff argues tolling applies to the three-year statute of  limitations for filing a DFEH complaint for conduct before April 7, 2018. Under  the continuing-violations doctrine, “a FEHA complaint is timely if  discriminatory practices occurring outside the limitations period continued  into that period.” (Dominguez v. Washington Mutual Bank (2008) 168  Cal.App.4th at p. 721.) Here, the court finds Plaintiff has met his burden of  showing that there are triable issues of fact whether the continuing-violations  doctrine permits claims for allegedly unlawful conduct before April 7, 2018. For  example, Plaintiff testifies in his declaration that in 2015 General Manager  William Jackson (Jackson) began yelling at him during meetings that he was a  “black ass” and that he thought that conduct would stop as soon as the contract  negotiations concluded. (Declaration of Richard Conell, filed on April 24, 2023  (“Conell Decl.”), ¶  3.)  He also thought Jackson’s conduct would stop when he stopped being a union  president, but from February 2019 through May 2020, Jackson continued calling  him “black ass.” (Conell Decl., ¶ 6.) In addition, Grensavitch, who worked  under Jackson, commented that there was a totem pole of races with white people  on top and Black people at the bottom. (Conell Decl., ¶ 6.) The court  finds triable issues whether conduct before April 7, 2018, had reached “a  degree of permanence,” the third prong of the continuing-violations doctrine.  The court also finds that Plaintiff has  met his burden of showing triable issues of material fact exist whether he was  an employee when he served as the president of a union. Defendants argue that  conduct during that period (June 9, 2018, through January 31, 2019) is not  actionable because the union was paying Plaintiff. However, Plaintiff has  testified that he continued receiving medical benefits as a TSI employee and  denied that he took a leave of absence to serve in the union. (Conell Decl., ¶ 8.) Finally, the court finds Plaintiff has met  his burden of showing triable issues of material fact exist whether he suffered  harassment within the meaning of FEHA, including whether the harassment was  sufficiently pervasive or severe. (Conell Decl., ¶ 2 [testifying that General Manager Jackson would, among  other things, call Plaintiff “black ass” to his face, make fun of stereotypes  of Black people to Plaintiff, told Plaintiff that Black people (unlike, among others, whites and Asians) did not go to work; on multiple occasions, multiple  employees would call him the N-word in the presence of Jackson and HR Manager  Michelle De Alba, and no disciplinary action was taken against those employees;  Grensavitch told Plaintiff that there was a totem pole of races with white  people at the top and Black people at the bottom]; Plaintiff’s  Compendium of Evidence, filed March 15, 2024 (“PCOE”), Ex. 1 – Chavira Depo.,  p. 96:9-18 [employee Kristopher Chavira testifying that she observed  Grensavitch calling only Black employees “bitch”].) It is for the jury to  decide whether that alleged conduct was sufficiently pervasive or severe.  Accordingly, summary adjudication of the second cause of action for racial  harassment is denied.   Third and Fifth Causes of Action for  Retaliation  Triable  issues of material fact exist whether Plaintiff’s assisting other Black  employees oppose racially discriminatory employment practices contributed to  his termination. (PAMF 89, 92; SUDF 7) Accordingly, the court denies summary  adjudication of the retaliation cause of action. Fourth Cause of Action for Failure  to Prevent Harassment, Discrimination, or Retaliation              The  court has found triable issues exist regarding whether Defendants harassed  Plaintiff based on race within the meaning of FEHA. Accordingly,  summary adjudication of the fourth cause of action for failure to prevent is  denied.   Sixth Cause of Action for Wrongful  Termination in Violation of Public Policy  The  court denies summary adjudication of wrongful termination in violation of  public policy for the same reasons it denied summary adjudication of the first  cause of action alleging intentional discrimination. Seventh Cause of Action for  Violations of Civil Code Section 43 “Besides  the personal rights mentioned or recognized in the Government Code, every  person has, subject to the qualifications and restrictions provided by law, the  right of protection from bodily restraint or harm, from personal insult, from  defamation, and from injury to his personal relations.” (Civ. Code, § 43.)  Defendants argue that because the seventh cause of action is derivative of the  other claims, it fails for the same reasons they argued the others have failed.  (Motion, p. 26:19-25.) However, the court has found that Plaintiff has met his  burden of showing triable issues of material fact exist as to his harassment  claim.  Accordingly, summary  adjudication of the seventh cause of action violations of Civil Code section 43  is denied.   Eighth Cause of Action for  Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress              The  court finds unpersuasive Defendants’ argument that Plaintiff’s intentional  infliction of emotional distress (IIED) claim is barred by the workers’  compensation exclusivity rule. (Cf. Fretland v. County of Humboldt  (1999) 69 Cal.App.4th 1478, 1492; Smith v. BP Lubricants USA Inc. (2021)  64 Cal.App.5th 138, 148.) Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s IIED claim fails  because (1) none of the alleged wrongful conduct is sufficiently extreme or  outrageous, and (2) Plaintiff underwent a psychiatric consultation on May 15,  2020, and he did not attribute any stress, anxiety, or depression to the  alleged harassment (referring to an evaluation from Perry Maloff, MD that is  attached Attorney Scott’s declaration as Exhibit N). For the reasons cited in  the discussions of the first through seventh causes of action, the court finds  Plaintiff has presented evidence showing triable issues exist regarding whether  Defendants’ conduct was sufficiently extreme or outrageous. Accordingly, summary  adjudication of the eighth cause of action for IIED is denied.   CONCLUSION  The  court denies summary adjudication of all causes of action and summary judgment.  Defendants shall give notice.