 Case Number:  23STCP01114    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  86 CALIFORNIA APARTMENT ASSOCIATION v. COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES
Case Number: 23STCP01114
Hearing Date: December 6, 2023 
 
[Tentative]       ORDER
GRANTING/DENYING
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE 
 
 
Petitioner, California Apartment Association,
seeks a writ of mandate directing Respondent, the County of Los Angeles,
“against implementation and enforcement of section VI(A)(1)(c)” of the County’s
“Resolution of the Board of Supervisors of the County of Los Angeles Further
Amending and Restating the County of Los Angeles COVID-19 Tenant Protections
Resolution,” adopted on January 24, 2023 (Resolution). (Pet., Prayer ¶ 1; Pet. ¶
1.) Petitioner contends the provision in the Resolution is “illegal and
unenforceable as preempted by state law.” (Pet. ¶ 1.) 
 
Petitioner’s unopposed Request for Judicial
Notice (RJN) of the Resolution is granted. 

 
Respondent’s unopposed RJN of Exhibits A and B is
granted.  
 
Petitioner’s Reply RJN of Senate Judiciary Committee, Analysis of Assembly Bill
2179, March 27, 2022 (2021-2022 Regular Session) is granted.
 
BACKGROUND AND PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
The County Passes Emergency Tenant Protections in
Response to the Covid-19 Pandemic 
 
Beginning in March 2020, in response to the
COVID-19 pandemic, the County adopted a series of emergency orders and
protections to prevent the spread of the virus. 
As relevant here, on March 19, 2020, the Chair of the County Board of
Supervisors (Board) issued an Executive Order “that imposed a temporary
moratorium on evictions for non-payment of rent by residential or commercial
tenants impacted by COVID-19, and other tenant protections . . . commencing
March 4, 2020, through May 31, 2020.” 
(Rec. 63.)[1]
 
Thereafter, the Board replaced the eviction
moratorium with a Tenant Protections Resolution that granted qualifying tenants
an affirmative defense to an unlawful detainer action and other protections
from harassment and intimidation. (Rec. 58-68.) After multiple periodic
reviews, the County repeatedly extended and modified the Resolution in response
to the evolving nature of the pandemic. (Rec. 58-68.)  
 
 
 
Pertinent Provisions of the Resolution 
 
On January 24, 2023, the Board approved the
Resolution at issue in this litigation, which further amended the County’s
COVID-19 Tenant Protections Resolution. (Rec. 12-33.) The following provisions
of section VI of the Resolution, entitled “Eviction Protections,” are relevant
to Petitioner’s claim of state law preemption: 

 
VI.
Eviction Protections. Temporary protections of Tenants impacted by the
COVID-19 crisis are imposed as follows: 
 
A.
Evictions. 
 
1.      Nonpayment
of Rent. During the time periods set forth below, a
Tenant may assert an affirmative defense to an unlawful detainer action for
nonpayment of rent, late charges, interest, or any other fees accrued if the
Tenant demonstrates an inability to pay rent and/or such related charges due to
Financial Impacts Related to COVID-19[2]
and the Tenant has provided notice to the Landlord within seven (7) days after
the date that rent and/or such related charges were due, unless extenuating
circumstances exist that the Tenant is unable to pay. The affirmative defense
provided under this Paragraph is described in Section C of Paragraph XI, below.

 
. . . .
 
a. Protected
Time Period. A Tenant who is unable to pay rent incurred during the
Protected Time Period may assert an affirmative defense to an unlawful detainer
action throughout the repayment period set forth in Section C of this Paragraph
VI, so long as the reason for nonpayment was Financial Impacts Related to
COVID-19, and the Tenant has provided notice to the Landlord to this effect and
certified their financial hardship within the timeframe specified in this
Paragraph VI. 
 
b. Extension
Protections Period. Effective July 1, 2022, through March 31, 2023, a
Residential Tenant whose household income is at 80 percent Area Median Income
or below and who is unable to pay rent incurred from July 1, 2022, through
March 31, 2023, may assert an affirmative defense to an unlawful detainer
action, so long as the reason for nonpayment was Financial Impacts Related to
COVID-19, and the Residential Tenant has provided notice to the Landlord to
this effect and self-certified their income level and financial hardship within
the timeframe specified in this Paragraph VI. 
 
c. 30-Day Notice
to Cure or Quit. Following expiration of the Resolution, if a Landlord
seeks to evict a Residential Tenant described in subsection VI.A.1.b., above,
for rent incurred from July 1, 2022, through March 31, 2023, the Landlord must
first serve on the Residential Tenant a 30-day notice to cure or quit prior to
initiating the unlawful detainer action. This protection shall not be construed
as superseding or nullifying, in whole or in part, the Residential Tenant's
twelve (12) month repayment period, described in section VI.C.1., below, nor
the Residential Tenant's affirmative defense to an unlawful detainer action for
such nonpayment of rent, described in section VI.C.4, below. This protection
shall survive the expiration of the Resolution.
 
.
. . .
 
C. Repayment of Rent. Unpaid rent incurred during the
Protections Period shall be repaid pursuant to the following:
 
              . .
. .
 
4. Failure to Pay Back Rent Not Ground for Eviction.
Effective July 1, 2022, a Residential Tenant may assert an affirmative defense
to an unlawful detainer action brought on the ground of inability to pay back
unpaid rent from July 1, 2022, through March 31, 2023, under the terms of a
payment plan, or at the end of the repayment period. Any term in a payment plan
that allows eviction due to the Tenant's failure to comply with the terms of
the payment plan is void as contrary to public policy. The Protections set
forth in this subsection shall be an affirmative defense for a Tenant in any
unlawful detainer action filed by a Landlord.
 
(Rec. 21-27.)
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW 
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 1085, subdivision (a) provides in relevant part:
 
A writ of
mandate may be issued by any court to any . . . board, or person, to compel the
performance of an act which the law specially enjoins, as a duty resulting from
an office, trust, or station, . . . .
 
“To
obtain writ relief under Code of Civil Procedure section 1085, the petitioner
must show there is no other plain, speedy, and adequate remedy; the respondent
has a clear, present, and ministerial duty to act in a particular way; and the
petitioner has a clear, present[,] and beneficial right to performance of that
duty.” (County of San Diego v. State of California (2008) 164
Cal.App.4th 580, 606.) “A ministerial duty is an obligation to perform a
specific act in a manner prescribed by law whenever a given state of facts
exists, without regard to any personal judgment as to the propriety of the act.
[Citation.]” (People v. Picklesimer (2010) 48 Cal.4th 330, 340.)
 
“An action in ordinary mandamus is proper where . .
. the claim is that an agency has failed to act as required by law.” (California
Ass'n for Health Services at Home v. Department of Health Services (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 696, 705.) 
 
“The issue of
preemption of a municipal ordinance by state law presents a question of law,
subject to de novo review.” (Apartment Assn. of Los Angeles County, Inc. v.
City of Los Angeles (“AAGLA”) (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 119, 129.)
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Petitioner contends section
VI(A)(1)(c) of the Resolution (the 30-Day Notice Requirement) conflicts with California
Code of Civil Procedure section 1161(2) (Section 1161(2)), which provides in
pertinent part: 
 
A tenant of real property, for a term less than life, or the
executor or administrator of the tenant's estate heretofore qualified
and now acting or hereafter to be qualified and act, is guilty of unlawful
detainer:
 
2. When the
tenant continues in possession, in person or by subtenant, without the
permission of the landlord, or the successor in estate
of the landlord, if applicable, after default in the payment of rent,
pursuant to the lease or agreement under which the property is held, and three
days' notice . . . in writing, requiring its payment, stating the
amount that is due . . . shall have been served upon the
tenant and if there is a subtenant in actual occupation of the premises,
also upon the subtenant.
 
The notice may be served at any time
within one year after the rent becomes due. 
 
(§ 1161(2).)   
 
Section 1161(2) has remained
unchanged since 1905. (See Levitz Furniture Co. v. Wingtip Comm., Inc.
(2001) 86 Cal.App.4th 1035, 1037, n. 3.) The Court of Appeal has explained: 
 
The purpose of the notice required
by section 1161, subdivision 2, is to give the tenant the opportunity to pay the rent due
and retain possession by avoiding forfeiture. . . . This entire statutory
procedure is intended to provide an expeditious and adequate remedy for
obtaining possession of premises wrongfully withheld by tenants. (Valov v.
Tank (1985) 168 Cal.App.3d 867, 874.) 

 
Rules of Preemption 
 
“Under article XI, section 7 of the
California Constitution, a county or city may make and enforce within its
limits all local, police, sanitary, and other ordinances and regulations
not in conflict with general laws. If otherwise valid local legislation
conflicts with state law, it is preempted by such law and is void. A conflict
exists if the local legislation duplicates, contradicts, or enters an area
fully occupied by general law, either expressly or by legislative implication.
. . .”
(San Diego Gas & Electric Co. v. City
of Carlsbad (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 785, 792-793 [cleaned up].)
 
Local legislation duplicates state law where it is
“coextensive therewith.” For example, in In re Portnoy (1942) 21 Cal.2d
237, 240, the Supreme Court found invalid a municipal ordinance where the
“entire text” of the ordinance could be found in the state law. The Supreme
Court invalidated the ordinance “to the extent of such duplication.” (Ibid.)

 
Local legislation is contradictory to state law
“when it is inimical thereto.”[3]
(Sherwin-Williams Company v. City of Los Angeles (1993) 4 Cal.4th 893, 897.)
For example, in Ex Parte Daniels (1920) 183 Cal. 636, 641, the Supreme
Court found a municipality’s motor vehicle speed limit ordinance setting a rate
lower than state law was in “direct conflict” with state law and therefore
invalid. (Id. at 637, 647-648.)
 
Local legislation enters into an area fully occupied
by state law when the Legislature has expressly or implicitly manifested its
intent to fully occupy the area. “Where the Legislature 
has manifested an intention, expressly or by
implication, wholly to occupy the field . . . municipal power [to regulate in
that area] is lost.” (O’Connell v. City of Stockton (2007) 41 Cal.4th
1061, 1068 [quoting 8 Witkin, Summary of Cal. Law (10th ed. 2005)
Constitutional Law, § 986, p. 551].)
 
“The first step in a preemption analysis
is to determine whether the local regulation explicitly conflicts with any
provision of state law. [Citation.] [¶] If the local legislation does not
expressly contradict or duplicate state law, its validity must be evaluated
under implied preemption principles. ‘In determining whether the Legislature
has preempted by implication to the exclusion of local regulation we must look
to the whole purpose and scope of the legislative scheme. There are three tests
[for implied preemption]: ‘(1) the subject matter has been so fully and
completely covered by general law as to clearly indicate that it has become
exclusively a matter of state concern; (2) the subject matter has been
partially covered by general law couched in such terms as to indicate clearly
that a paramount state concern will not tolerate further or additional
local action; or (3) the subject matter has been partially covered by general
law, and the subject is of such a nature that the adverse effect of a local ordinance
on the transient citizens of the state outweighs the possible benefit to the
municipality.”  (Johnson v. City and
County of San Francisco (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 7, 13-14. See also Sherwin-Williams Company v. City of Los Angeles,
supra, 4 Cal.4th at 898.)  
 
Courts “have been particularly ‘reluctant
to infer legislative intent to preempt a field covered by municipal regulation
when there is a significant local interest to be served that may differ from
one locality to another.’ ” (Big Creek Lumber Co. v. County of Santa Cruz (2006)
38 Cal.4th 1139, 1149.) “ ‘[A]bsent a clear indication of preemptive intent
from the Legislature,’ we presume that local regulation ‘in an area over which
[the local government] traditionally has exercised control’ is not preempted by
state law. [Citation.] ‘The party claiming that general state law preempts a
local ordinance has the burden of demonstrating preemption.’ ” (Rental
Housing Assn. of Northern Alameda County v. City of Oakland (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 741, 752.)
 
Legal Framework for
Preemption Claim Based on Unlawful Detainer Statutes 
 
The relevant
framework for determining whether the 30-Day Notice Requirement is preempted by
the state’s unlawful detainer statutes is set forth in Birkenfeld v. City of
Berkeley (1976) 17 Cal.3d 129 [Birkenfeld].  
 
In Birkenfeld,
the plaintiff argued a local law limiting the grounds for eviction of tenants
in rent-controlled apartments was preempted by the state’s unlawful detainer
statutes. The Supreme Court rejected the argument explaining: 
 
The purpose of the unlawful detainer
statutes is procedural. The statutes implement the landlord’s property rights
by permitting him to recover possession once the consensual basis for the
tenant’s occupancy is at an end. In contrast the charter amendment’s
elimination of particular grounds for eviction is a limitation upon the
landlord’s property rights under the police power, giving rise to a substantive
ground of defense in unlawful detainer proceedings. The mere fact that a
city’s exercise of the police power creates such a defense does not bring it
into conflict with the state’s statutory scheme. Thus, a landlord’s violations
of a city’s housing code may be the basis for the defense of breach of warranty
of habitability in a summary proceeding instituted by the landlord to recover
possession for nonpayment of rent. [Citations.] Similarly, the statutory
remedies for recovery of possession and of unpaid rent (see Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1159–1179a; Civ. Code, § 1951 et seq.) do not preclude a defense based on municipal rent
control legislation enacted pursuant to the police power imposing rent ceilings
and limiting the grounds for eviction for the purpose of enforcing those rent
ceilings. (Id. at 149.)
 
“In contrast,
another provision of the local law challenged in Birkenfeld required landlords to obtain a certificate of eviction from the
rent control board before commencing unlawful detainer proceedings. (Birkenfeld, supra, 17
Cal.3d at p. 150, [].) To
obtain such a certificate, the landlord bore the burden of proving the
existence of permissible grounds for eviction, proper notice to the tenant, and
that there were ‘no outstanding Code violations on the premises’ other than
those ‘substantially caused by the present tenants.’ (Ibid.) Moreover, the board was required to notify the tenant of the
landlord's certificate application, the tenant was entitled to a hearing, and
both parties were entitled to judicial review of the board’s decision to grant
or deny the certificate. (Ibid.) The Supreme Court concluded, ‘[u]nlike the limitations . . . upon
the grounds for eviction, which can affect summary repossession proceedings
only by making substantive defenses available to the tenant, the requirement of
a certificate of eviction raises procedural barriers between the landlord and
the judicial proceeding.’ (Id. at p. 151, [].) ‘The summary repossession procedure
[citation] is intended to be a relatively simple and speedy remedy that
obviates any need for self-help by landlords. [Citations.] To require landlords
to fulfill the elaborate prerequisites for the issuance of a certificate of
eviction by the rent control board before they commence the statutory
proceeding would nullify the intended summary nature of the remedy.’ ” (San
Francisco Apartment Assn. v. City and County of San Francisco (2018) 20
Cal.App.5th 510, 515-516.)  
 
Thus, under Birkenfeld,
“municipalities may by ordinance limit the substantive grounds for eviction by
specifying that a landlord may gain possession of a rental unit only on
certain limited grounds. [Citations.] But they may not procedurally impair the
summary eviction scheme set forth in the unlawful detainer statutes . . . .” (Rental
Housing Assn. of Northern Alameda County v. City of Oakland, supra, 171
Cal.App.4th at 754.)
 
There is no bright
line between substantive and procedural rules. (See San Francisco Apartment
Assn. v. City and County of San Francisco, supra, 20 Cal.App.5th at 516.
[“As this case illustrates, the distinction between procedure and substantive
law can be shadowy and difficult to draw in practice.”]) In addition to Birkenfeld, the
following cases are illustrative of circumstances in where the Supreme Court
and Courts of Appeal have upheld local ordinances alleged to conflict with the
unlawful detainer statutes.  
 
In Fisher v. City of Berkeley (1984)
37 Cal.3d 644, the Supreme Court upheld local legislation allowing tenants to withhold rent when
landlords violate local rent ceilings or fail to register rental units with the
local rent board. (Id. at 705.) The Supreme Court relied on the analysis
from Birkenfeld and concluded “the statutory remedy for recovery of possession
does not preclude limitations on grounds for eviction for the purpose of
enforcing a local rent control regulation.” 
(Ibid.)  
 
In Rental
Housing Assn. of Northern Alameda County v. City of Oakland, supra, 171
Cal.App.4th 751, the Court of Appeal held the unlawful detainer statute does
not preempt an ordinance requiring landlords to provide “notice and an
opportunity to cure any offending conduct” before resorting to an unlawful
detainer action. (Id. at 762.) The Court reasoned: 
 
The warning notice requirements in
Measure EE limit a landlord's right to initiate an eviction due to certain
tenant conduct by requiring that the specified conduct continue after the
landlord provides the tenant written notice to cease. These notice
requirements thus regulate the substantive grounds for eviction, rather than
the procedural remedy available to the landlord once grounds for eviction have
been established. If the tenant ceases the offending conduct once notified
by the landlord, there is no good cause to evict. (Id. at 762-763.)
 
Finally, in San
Francisco Apartment Assn. v. City and County of San Francisco, supra, 20
Cal.App.5th 510, the Court of Appeal upheld a San Francisco law prohibiting
no-fault evictions of tenant households with a child or an “educator” during
the school year. The law was challenged on preemption grounds. The Court upheld
the law explaining: 
 
The purpose of the Ordinance is to
protect children from the disruptive impact of moving during the school year or
losing a relationship with a school employee who moves during the school year.
When tenants belong to this protected group (or have a custodial or familial
relationship with a resident protected group member), they have a substantive
defense to eviction; when they no longer belong to the group—because the
regular school year has ended or will have ended by the effective date of the
notice of termination—they no longer have a substantive defense. At this time,
landlords may avail themselves of the unlawful detainer procedures, which are
not altered by the Ordinance. (Id. at 518.)
 
Does The 30-Day Notice
Requirement Regulate a Substantive Limitation on Eviction
 
Petitioner contends the 30-Day Notice Requirement contradicts Section
1161(2)’s three-day because it “requires a landlord to provide a thirty (30)
day notice to pay rent or quit prior to commencing an unlawful detainer action.”
(Opening Brief 11:17-19.) Petitioner asserts the 30-Day Notice Requirement enters
into a field fully occupied by state law. (Opening Brief 12:10.) In a footnote,
Petitioner also acknowledges the procedural-substantive framework set forth in Birkenfeld
and argues: “The amount of notice required to evict for nonpayment of rent
falls squarely within the realm of a procedural requirement rather than a
substantive one. Section VI(A)(1)(c) has no substantive function; its sole
effect is simply to extend the notice to cure period for nonpayment of rent as
specifically prescribed by state law.” (Opening Brief 13-14, fn. 2.)  
 
In contrast, Respondent analogizes
the 30-Day Notice Requirements to the ordinances upheld in San Francisco Apartment Assn. v. City and
County of San Francisco, supra, 20 Cal.App.5th 510 and Rental Housing Assn. of Northern Alameda
County v. City of Oakland, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th 751 as substantive limitations on
eviction. Respondent argues “[t]he 30-Day Notice Requirement is not preempted
by Section 1161(2) because it only limits the substantive bases for eviction.”
(Opposition 13:13-14.)  
 
Significantly, the 30-day Notice Requirement
only applies “if a Landlord seeks to evict a Residential Tenant described in
subsection VI.A.1.b. . . . for rent incurred from July 1, 2022, through March
31, 2023.” (Rec. 21.)  Subsection VI(A)(1)(b)
of the Resolution states in full: 
 
Effective July 1, 2022, through March 31, 2023, a Residential
Tenant whose household income is at 80 percent Area Median Income or below and
who is unable to pay rent incurred from July 1, 2022, through March 31, 2023,
may assert an affirmative defense to an unlawful detainer action, so long as
the reason for nonpayment was Financial Impacts Related to COVID-19, and the
Residential Tenant has provided notice to the Landlord to this effect and
self-certified their income level and financial hardship within the timeframe
specified in this Paragraph VI. 
 
“Financial Impacts” is defined by
the Resolution to mean either: “1. Substantial loss of household income caused
by the COVID-19 pandemic. ‘Substantial loss’ as used in this paragraph is
defined as a loss of at least 10% of a Tenant’s average monthly household
income for the 12-month period immediately preceding March 1, 2020, as may be
established by pay stubs, payment receipts, letters from employers, or other
evidence; or 2. Increased or extraordinary costs in food, fuel, child care,
and/or unreimbursed medical expenses in an amount greater than 7.5% of a
Tenant’s average monthly household income for the 12-month period immediately
preceding March 1, 2020.” (Rec. 18.)
 
“Related to COVID-19” is defined as
any of the following: (1) “A suspected or confirmed case of COVID-19, or caring
for a household or family member who has a suspected or confirmed case of
COVID-19;” (2) “Lay-off, loss of compensable work hours, or other reduction or
loss of income or revenue resulting from a business closure or other economic
or employer impacts related to COVID-19;” (3) “Compliance with an order or
recommendation of the County's Health Officer to stay at home, self-quarantine,
or avoid congregating with others during the state of emergency;” (4) “Extraordinary,
unreimbursed medical expenses related to the diagnosis of, testing for, and/or
treatment of COVID-19;” or (5) “Childcare needs arising from school closures in
response to COVID- 19.” (Rec. 19.)  
 
Thus, as explained by Respondent,
the 30-Day Notice Requirement applies only to a class of citizens who meet the
following criteria: “(1) residential tenants; (2) whose household income is at
or below 80 percent area median income; (3) who are unable to pay rent incurred
from July 1, 2022, through March 31, 2023; due to Financial Impacts Related to
COVID-19; (4) who provided timely notice to the landlord to this effect; and
(5) who timely self-certified their income level and financial hardship.” (Opposition
12:1-4.)
 
Tenants who do not
fall within the protected class remain subject to the 3-day notice requirement
set forth in Section 1161(2) and do not benefit from the 30-Day Notice
Requirement in the Resolution. Thus, “[w]hen tenants belong to this protected
group . . ., they have a substantive defense to eviction; when they no longer
belong to the group . . . they no longer have a substantive defense. At this
time, landlords may avail themselves of the unlawful detainer procedures, which
are not altered by [the ordinance].” (San Francisco Apartment Assn. v. City
and County of San Francisco, supra, 20 Cal.App.5th at 518.) 
 
Like the city in San
Francisco Apartment Assn. v. City and County of San Francisco, supra, 20
Cal.App.5hh at 513, the Board made legislative findings in support of providing
eviction protections to certain vulnerable tenants. Specifically, the Board found
the protected tenants are at risk of falling into homelessness due to financial
hardship caused by the Covid-19 pandemic and the 30-Day Notice Requirement is
necessary to give these tenants the opportunity to avoid homelessness by
allowing them additional time to take advantage of available rental assistance
and cure their rental defaults. (Rec. 58-61.) 
 
The 30-Day Notice
Requirement also has similarities to the City of Oakland’s Just Cause for
Eviction Ordinance in Rental Housing Assn. of Northern Alameda County v.
City of Oakland, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th 751. Specifically, the 30-Day Notice
Requirement compels a landlord to give a protected tenant notice of the
offending conduct—i.e., the tenant’s failure to pay rent incurred from July 1,
2022 through March 31, 2023—and 30 days within which to cure the offending
conduct before initiating an unlawful detainer proceeding. The Court of
Appeal’s reasons for upholding the city’s ordinance there likewise apply here: 
 
The warning notice requirements . . . limit a
landlord's right to initiate an eviction due to certain tenant conduct by
requiring that the specified conduct continue after the landlord provides the
tenant written notice to cease. These notice requirements thus regulate the
substantive grounds for eviction, rather than the procedural remedy available
to the landlord once grounds for eviction have been established. (Id. at 762-763.)
 
Petitioner relies on case authority
explaining a purpose of the unlawful detainer statutes is to provide a speedy
remedy to determine the right to possess real property. (See Opening Brief 11:20-12:8.
See e.g., Martin-Bragg v. Moore (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 367, 387-388.)
Petitioner also relies heavily on three cases that have struck down, on
preemption grounds, local laws imposing notice requirements different than
those required by state law. (See Opening Brief 14:1-15:19; Mobilepark West
Homeowners Assn. v. Escondido Mobilepark West (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 32, 47
[Mobilepark West]. [“Where a statute has set the amount of notice
required, the municipality may not impose further requirements of additional
notice.”] (rent control); Tri County Apartment Assn. v. City of Mountain
View (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 1283, 1298 [Tri County] [“the timing of
landlord-tenant transactions is a matter of statewide concern not amenable to
local variations”] (rent increase); Channing Properties v. City of Berkeley
(1992) 11 Cal. App. 4th 88, 96-97 [Channing Properties] (Ellis Act
eviction notice).)  
 
As argued by Respondent, the cases relied
upon by Petitioner “are inapposite
because they do not bear on the preemptive effect of Section 1161(2) nor on the
distinction between procedural and substantive modifications set forth in Birkenfeld.
Nor do they deal with local or municipal
laws that exclusively apply to unique and defined classes of tenants.” (Opposition
13:17-20.)  Similarly, as explained by
the Court of Appeal, Tri County and Channing Properties are
distinguishable because they “primarily involve state statutes other than the unlawful
detainer statutes, and therefore do not employ the procedural-substantive
framework established in Birkenfeld. Instead, they stand for the general proposition that
various state laws preempt the field of the timing of landlord-tenant
transactions.” (San Francisco
Apartment Assn. v. City and County of San Francisco, supra, 20 Cal.App.5th
at 519-520.) For these same reasons, Tri County, Channing Properties
and Mobilepark West are distinguishable.
 
Further, in contrast to the ordinances in
Tri County, Channing Properties, and Mobilepark West, the
County’s Resolution does not replace a state-mandated notice (the 3-day notice)
with 30 days of notice for all tenants and all rental debts. Instead, as
discussed earlier, the 30-Day Notice Requirement applies only to a defined
class of vulnerable tenants and their
nonpayment of rent during nine specific months—i.e., from July 1, 2022 through
March 31, 2023. Further, the 30-Day Notice Requirement is further tailored to
apply only to tenants who were unable to pay their rental obligation during the
specified period because of financial impacts related to the Covid-19 pandemic.
Thus, unlike the local laws in Tri County, Channing Properties, and Mobilepark West,
the 30-Day Notice Requirement is reasonably interpreted as a substantive
limitation on eviction and a permissible rent control measure falling within
the police powers of the County in response to the Covid-19 pandemic.  
 
In reply, Petitioner attempts to
distinguish San Francisco Apartment Assn. v. City and County of San
Francisco, supra, 20 Cal.App.5th 510 and Rental Housing Assn. of
Northern Alameda County v. City of Oakland, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th 751 arguing
the cases did not address Section 1161(2) and the cities’ ordinances did not
provide a defense to eviction based on nonpayment of rent.  (Reply 9:20-12:6.) 
 
Petitioner’s arguments are properly made in rebuttal and therefore
permissibly made for the first time in reply. Respondent has not had an
opportunity to address them. The court
acknowledges the cases involved ordinances that place substantive limitations
on either “no-fault evictions” or evictions for material breaches of lease
other than nonpayment of rent. (See San Francisco Apartment Assn. v. City
and County of San Francisco, supra, 20 Cal.App.5th at 513 [no-fault
evictions]; Rental Housing Assn. of Northern Alameda County v. City of
Oakland, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at 762 [notice requirements applies to
evictions “due to a tenant's substantial violation of a material term of the
tenancy, disorderly conduct, or refusal to allow the landlord access to the
unit”].)[4] The court requests Respondent do so at the time of hearing.
 
Nonetheless, these decisions (and Birkenfeld
and Fisher v. City of Berkeley before them) do not suggest Section
1162(2) or nonpayment of rent are excluded from the Birkenfeld substantive-procedural
framework. Rather, Birkenfeld and its progeny stand for the rule that “a
local rent control ordinance may permissibly eliminate a ground for eviction
specified in Code of Civil Procedure section 1161 without creating a conflict with
the unlawful detainer statutes.”  (Rental
Housing Assn. of Northern Alameda County v. City of Oakland, supra, 171
Cal.App.4th at 765.) An additional notice and cure requirement for nonpayment
of rent by a vulnerable class of tenants–for rent accruing during a limited
time period and defaults caused by a public health emergency–may fall within
this rule and constitute a substantive, rather than procedural, limitation on
eviction.  
 
In reply, Petitioner raises three entirely
new arguments that cannot be interpreted as rebuttal.  (See Reply 8 fn. 2; Reply 9:1-16; Reply 11
fn. 8.) “The salutary rule is that
points raised in a reply brief for the first time will not be considered unless
good cause is shown for the failure to present them before.” (Balboa Ins.
Co. v. Aguirre (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 1002, 1010; see also Regency
Outdoor Advertising v. Carolina Lances, Inc. (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1323, 1333.) 
Petitioner does not show good to raise entirely new arguments in reply.
The new reply arguments, discussed below, are not rebuttal and Petitioner should
have raised them in its Opening Brief to provide Respondent with a full and
fair opportunity to address them in its brief. The court rejects Petitioner’s new
reply arguments on that procedural basis. (See Reply 8 fn. 2; Reply 9:1-16;
Reply 11 fn. 8.)  
 
Alternatively,
the court addresses the arguments on their merits. Petitioner contends it is
“questionable” whether Birkenfeld even provides the analytical framework
for analyzing whether a local ordinance is preempted by Section 1161(2). (Reply
8 fn. 2.)  The court disagrees.
Subsequent decisions of the Supreme Court and Courts of Appeal have confirmed
that Birkenfeld provides the “relevant framework” for determining
whether a local ordinance is “preempted by the state's unlawful detainer
statutes (Code Civ. Proc., § 1159 et seq.).” (San
Francisco Apartment Assn. v. City and County of San Francisco, supra, 20
Cal.App.5th at 515; see also Rental Housing Assn. of Northern Alameda County
v. City of Oakland, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at 759. [“The Supreme Court
made clear in Birkenfeld that
substantive limitations on eviction that are imposed by local ordinance do not
conflict with the procedural purpose served by the unlawful detainer statutes.”])
 
Petitioner next contends the Resolution at “Section VI.C.4 establishes a limited substantive
defense to evictions based on inability to pay COVID-19 debt in specified
circumstances” whereas “Section V.A.1.c, challenged herein, seeks to alter the
procedure by which evictions may be brought for that failure, in cases where
the ‘affirmative defense’ is unavailable.” (Reply 9:1-16.) Petitioner does not
explain why the affirmative defense in section VI.C.4 and the 30-Day Notice
Requirement cannot both be substantive limitations on evictions within
the Birkenfeld framework. Both provisions are based on the same definition
of “Residential Tenant,” discussed earlier. (See Rec. 21, 27, and 30;
Resolution sections VI.A.1.a-c, VI.C.4, and XI.C.) While the affirmative
defense may be asserted once unlawful detainer proceedings are commenced, the
30-Day Notice Requirement purports to limit the circumstances in which such
unlawful detainer proceedings may be brought based on the same substantive
characteristics. 
 
Finally, Petitioner contends: “[T]he class is not as
narrowly defined as the County would have this Court believe. Because a tenant
can ‘self-certify’ his or her entitlement to the defense, a landlord must give
the benefit of the 30-day notice to all tenants who claim it, even if,
ultimately, the facts would not justify its application in a given case. A
tenant’s lack of entitlement would not be determined by a court until well
after the landlord has to take the preliminary step of serving the notice.”
(Reply 11-12 fn. 8.)  Such circumstances,
even if true, do not detract from the substantive character of the 30-Day
Notice Requirement. Petitioner cites no authority to the contrary.[5]
 
Further
argument on the issues is necessary. It is not entirely clear to the court that
the 30-Day Notice Requirement merely regulates a substantive ground for eviction.
If the a substantive ground for eviction exists, doesn’t the 30-Day Notice
Requirement conflict with Section 1161(2)’s three-day notice provision?
 
The Covid-19 Tenant Relief Act Is Not
Determinative 
 
The court has
considered the parties’ contentions related to the Covid-19 Tenant Relief Act
(CTRA) and does not find the argument determinative of Petitioner’s preemption
claim.
 
Section 1161(2)
states that “[a]n unlawful detainer action under this paragraph shall be
subject to the COVID-19 Tenant Relief Act of 2020 (Chapter 5 (commencing
with Section 1179.01)) if the default in the payment of rent is based upon the COVID-19 rental
debt.” (Emphasis added.) As Petitioner points out (see Reply 14), the
CTRA defines “COVID-19 rental debt” as “unpaid rent or any other unpaid
financial obligation of a tenant under the tenancy that came due during the
covered time period,” which is defined as “the time period between March
1, 2020, and September 30, 2021.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1179.02, subds.
(a), (c).) The 30-Day Notice Requirement of the Resolution applies only to the nonpayment
of rent from July 1, 2022 through March 31, 2023. (Rec. 21.) Thus, Section
1161(2) is not subject to the CTRA as to the nonpayment of rent covered by the
30-Day Notice Requirement.  
 
The Legislature’s
amendment of the CTRA, in Assembly Bill 2179 (AB 2179), does not show an intent
to authorize local laws that conflict with Section 1161(2) pursuant to Birkenfeld.
Rather, the legislative history for AB 2179 cited by Respondent states “[l]ocal
jurisdictions are preempted from applying new or additional local additional
protections against eviction for nonpayment of rent, if that rent accrued on or
before March 31, 2022” but adds “[f]or rent that accrues on or after April 1,
2022, local jurisdictions are free to establish additional protections against
eviction.” (Rec. 88.) Assuming without deciding this legislative history
reflects the intent of the Legislature, it shows intent to return to the status
quo as to preemption of local eviction laws that existed before the CTRA was
originally enacted in 2020. The status quo before 2020 was the
procedural-substantive framework of Birkenfeld.[6]
 
Petitioner’s preemption claim must be
decided based on the general rules of preemption, as applied to Section 1161(2),
the 30-Day Notice Requirement, and the procedural-substantive framework set
forth in Birkenfeld. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The petition for writ of mandate is granted/denied.  Petitioner’s derivative prayers for
declaratory and injunctive relief are granted/denied for the same reasons.  
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
December 6, 2023                                                                 ________________________________ 
Hon. Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge of the Superior Court 
 


