


[1] To adjudicate the petition, the court has considered
Petitioner’s Opening Brief, Respondent’s Opposition and the administrative
record lodged by Respondent.


[2] Business
and Professions Code section 650, subdivision (a) makes it “unlawful” to
receive . . . money or other consideration “as compensation or inducement for
referring patients . . . to any person . . . .” The statute “ ‘was enacted (1)
to ensure that referrals would not be induced by consideration other than the
best interests of the patient [citation] and (2) to prevent patients being
charged more for treatment because of an additional hidden fee imposed to
recoup payment for securing the referral [citation].’ ” (People v. Guiamelon
(2012) 205 Cal.App.4hh 383, 399.)


[3] Respondent asserts “the Defendant in a criminal
action does not have standing to bring a motion to dismiss pursuant to Penal
Code § 1385.” (Opposition 1 fn. 1.) Nonetheless, Respondent acknowledges the
alleged error in procedure “is not before this Court.”  (Ibid.) 



[4] While the court is not entirely certain, it does not
appear Petitioner challenges any factual findings by the agency. (Opening Brief
2:7-9.) The petition also does not appear to raise any issue about the agency’s
factual findings.


[5] Petitioner also does not challenge the nature of the
crime as one falling within Labor Code section 139.21, subdivision (a)(1)(A). 
the facts as admitted
by Petitioner at the time of his guilty plea his crime 


[6] Labor
Code section 139.21, subdivision (a)(1) provides in pertinent part: 
The
administrative director shall promptly suspend, pursuant to subdivision
(b), any physician, practitioner, or provider from participating in the
workers’ compensation system as a physician, practitioner, or provider if the
individual or entity meets any of the following criteria: (A) The
individual or entity has been convicted of any felony or misdemeanor and that
crime comes within any of the following descriptions: (i) It involves
fraud or abuse of the federal Medicare or Medicaid programs, the Medi-Cal
program, or the workers’ compensation system, or fraud or abuse of any patient.
. . . (Emphasis added.)
 

