 Case Number:  22STCP04268    Hearing Date:   December 6, 2023    Dept:  86 MARTINEZ v. COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
Case Number: 22STCP04268
Hearing Date: December 6, 2023 
 
[Tentative] ORDER ON DEMURRERS TO SECOND AMENDED
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE
 
 
Respondents, County of Los Angeles Employee
Relations Commission (ERCOM) and the County of Los Angeles (collectively, Respondents),
each demur to the second amended petition for writ of mandate (SAP) filed by
Petitioner, Crystal Martinez. Respondents assert the SAP fails to state a cause
of action, and Petitioner failed to exhaust her administrative remedies.  
 
The County’s Request for Judicial Notice (RJN) of
Exhibit 1 is granted.
 
The demurrers are overruled. The court strikes
Petitioner’s wholly duplicative second cause of action for declaratory relief
as ordered on July 12, 2023.  
 
SUMMARY OF SAP ALLEGATIONS 
 
Petitioner is a Custody Assistant-Sheriff with
the Los Angeles County Sheriff’s Department (Department). (SAP ¶ 4.) The Los
Angeles County Professional Peace Officers Association (PPOA) is the majority
representative of County employees in the Custody Assistant unit. (SAP
¶ 1.)  
 
“On or about February 19, 2019, the County and
the PPOA entered into a collective bargaining agreement referred to as the
Memorandum of Understanding (‘MOU’).” (SAP ¶ 9, Exh. A.)  “Upon written notice of the grievance
decision, an employee is afforded the right to pursue arbitration, as described
in Article 11, section 6 of the MOU. . . . However, this right mandates that
the employee associate with the union. If the employee does not associate with
the union, the employee will not be afforded an appeal.” (SAP ¶ 13.)
“Respondents do not provide any alternate evidentiary type hearing for its
employees that exercise their right not to join or associate with the PPOA.” (SAP
¶ 17.)
 
“On or about May 17, 2022, Petitioner received a
Letter of Intent from [the Department] indicat[ing] that she would be suspended
for five (5) working days without pay for allegedly violating the Policy of
Equality. One witness allegedly heard Petitioner make inappropriate comments at
work. Based on information and belief, that sole witness was subsequently
terminated by [the Department]. Based on information and belief, that witness
is unreliable and has provided conflicting statements about Petitioner.” (SAP ¶
21.)
 
Petitioner initiated a grievance to appeal her
proposed suspension. Petitioner met with Department personnel on July 14, 2022,
and presented her grievance.  On or about
August 17, 2022, the Department denied the grievance.  (SAP ¶¶ 22-24.)
 
On August 26, 2022, Petitioner filed a request
for arbitration with ERCOM. Petitioner was not a member of PPOA at the time. On
August 29, 2022, ERCOM informed Petitioner a request for arbitration may only
be filed by a union. (SAP ¶¶ 25-29.)  
 
“On or about September 6, 2022, Petitioner
received a Letter of Imposition, which indicated that Petitioner would be
suspended without pay from September 19, 2022, through September 23, 2022.” (SAP
¶ 30.)
 
On or about September 8, 2022, Petitioner “associated”
with PPOA and requested that PPOA file a request for arbitration with ERCOM. PPOA
submitted the request on September 16, 2022. 
On or about September 16, 2022, ERCOM granted the request for arbitration.
(SAP ¶¶ 31-32, 38.) “The Request for Arbitration, a public record, supports the
fact that Petitioner had to associate with the PPOA as it states that the PPOA
is the requesting party, and the request is being made on behalf of
Petitioner.” (SAP ¶ 32.)
 
On September 30, 2022, Petitioner served a letter
on ERCOM stating she “should not be forced to associate any further with the
PPOA” and requesting “Petitioner be permitted to have her own representation
for the upcoming arbitration.” (SAP ¶ 39.) Despite granting the request for arbitration,
ERCOM has not allowed Petitioner to proceed to arbitration with her own choice
of legal representation. (SAP ¶ 40.)  
 
RELEVANT PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
On December 5, 2022, Petitioner filed her
original petition for writ of mandate and complaint for declaratory and
injunctive relief. On May 9, 2023, after Respondents filed demurrers,
Petitioner filed her first amended petition for writ of mandate and complaint
for declaratory and injunctive relief (FAP). 

 
On June 7 and 12, 2023, respectively, ERCOM and the
County filed their demurrers to the FAP and meet and confer declarations. On
June 28, 2023, Petitioner filed a consolidated opposition.  On July 5, 2023, ERCOM and County each filed
a reply.
 
On July 12, 2023, the court sustained with leave
to amend Respondents’ demurrers to the FAP. 
The court issued a written ruling (Ruling), which is incorporated here
by reference.  In a footnote, the court
stated: “If Petitioner is alleging Respondents have not complied with
contractual provisions of the MOU, such legal theory is not sufficiently
pleaded in the FAP. If Petitioner intends to allege as much, amendments to the
FAP are required.” (Ruling 5, fn. 2.)  The
court also indicated Petitioner could allege further facts in an amended
pleading to support her claim she should not be required to exhaust her
administrative remedies before the County’s Director of Personnel. (Ruling
10.)  
 
On July 26, 2023, Petitioner filed her SAP.
 
STANDARD OF REVIEW 
 
A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer must appear
on the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters. (Code Civil
Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.)
“We assume the truth of the allegations in the complaint, but do not assume the
truth of contentions, deductions, or conclusions of law.” (California
Logistics, Inc. v. State of California (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 242, 247.)  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone
and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters.” (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) The
allegations in the petition must be liberally construed in favor of Petitioner
on demurrer.  (See Mobil Oil Corp. v
Exxon Corp. (1986) 177 Cal.App.3d 942, 947.) 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Petitioner brings her request for a writ of
mandate pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure 1085.
 
There
are two essential showings required to obtain an ordinary writ of mandate under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1085: (1) a clear, present, and ministerial
duty on the part of the respondent, and (2) a clear, present, and beneficial
right on the part of the petitioner to the performance of that duty. (California
Ass’n for Health Services at Home v. Department of 
Health
Services (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 696, 704.) “An action in
ordinary mandamus is proper where . . . the claim is that an agency has failed
to act as required by law.” (Id. at 705.)
 
“Generally,
mandamus is available to compel a public agency’s performance or to correct an
agency’s abuse of discretion when the action being compelled or corrected is
ministerial.”  (AIDS Healthcare
Foundation v. Los Angeles County Dept. of Public Health (2011) 197
Cal.App.4th 693, 700.) “A ministerial act is an act that a public officer is required to
perform in a prescribed manner in obedience to the mandate of legal authority
and without regard to his own judgment or opinion concerning such act's propriety
or impropriety, when a given state of facts exists.” (Kavanaugh v. West Sonoma County Union High School Dist. (2003) 29
Cal.4th 911, 916.)   
 
Respondents contend Petitioner has not pleaded a
cause of action for a writ of ordinary mandate because: (1) under
constitutional due process principles, Petitioner is not entitled to an
evidentiary appeal hearing for a suspension of five days or less; (2) Petitioner’s
rights under the Meyers-Milias-Brown Act (MMBA), Government Code section 3500 et
seq., do not entitle to her to an evidentiary hearing under the facts of
this case; (3) ERCOM has no ministerial duty to process a request for arbitration
without participation of the union, PPOA; (4) the County has no ministerial
duty to contravene the terms of the MOU with PPOA or create an exclusive
arbitration procedure for Petitioner; (5) Petitioner has not pleaded a claim
for discrimination; and (6) Petitioner failed to exhaust her administrative
remedies.
 
As discussed below, the court need not reach
issues (1) through (5) because Petitioner sufficiently pleads she is entitled,
pursuant to the MOU, as a matter of contract to an arbitration that has already
been requested by PPOA and granted by ERCOM. The court also concludes
Petitioner has pleaded sufficient facts to support an excuse from the requirement
of exhaustion.
 
Petitioner Sufficiently Pleads a Claim for
Arbitration Pursuant to the Terms of the MOU
 
“[A]rbitration is a matter of
contract . . . .” (Peleg v. Neiman Marcus Group, Inc.
(2012) 204 Cal.App.4th 1425, 1440.) A MOU adopted by the governing body of a public agency is a binding
agreement that may be enforced against the agency by writ of ordinary mandate.
(Glendale City Employees' Association, Inc. v. City of Glendale (1975)
15 Cal. 3d 328, 337-345.)   
 
When interpreting a
MOU, courts “are guided by the well-settled rules of interpretation of a
contract, endeavoring to effectuate the mutual intent of the parties as it
existed at the time of contracting insofar as it is ascertainable and lawful.”
(City of El Cajon v. El Cajon Police Officers’ Assn. (1996) 49
Cal.App.4th 64, 71.) Extrinsic evidence may be offered by the parties to
resolve ambiguities in the contract, including latent ambiguities. “ ‘The test
of admissibility of extrinsic evidence to explain the meaning of a written
instrument is not whether it appears to the court to be plain and unambiguous
on its face, but whether the offered evidence is relevant to prove a meaning to
which the language of the instrument is reasonably susceptible.’ To determine
whether offered evidence is relevant to prove such a meaning the court must
consider all credible evidence offered to prove the intention of the parties.
‘If the court decides, after considering this evidence, that the language of a
contract, in the light of all the circumstances, ‘is fairly susceptible of
either one of the two interpretations contended for . . .’ [citations],
extrinsic evidence to prove either of such meanings is admissible.’ ” (Delta
Dynamics, Inc. v. Arioto (1968) 69 Cal.2d 525, 528.)  
 
Petitioner contends
the court must preliminarily determine whether Petitioner has sufficiently pleaded
a ministerial duty requiring Respondents to comply with the MOU once
arbitration is granted. The court agrees that is the starting point for the
analysis.
 
In the first cause
of action, Petitioner pleads “[t]he ERCOM Ordinance (and the MOU) does not
authorize ERCOM or the County to deny Petitioner an attorney for arbitration
that has been granted.” (SAP ¶ 65; see also SAP ¶ 73.) Among other writ relief,
Petitioner seeks a writ of mandate “directing
Respondents to afford Petitioner the right to proceed to the arbitration that
ERCOM granted.” (SAP ¶ 94.)  
 
In the SAP,
Petitioner pleads facts to support the relief she requests.  Petitioner alleges, after initially being denied
arbitration on August 30, 2022 when Petitioner was not a member of PPOA,
Petitioner then associated with PPOA and requested PPOA file a request for arbitration
on her behalf. (SAP ¶¶ 28, 31.) Petitioner next alleges: “Although Petitioner
did not join the PPOA, she was forced to associate with the PPOA by asking them
to request the arbitration on her behalf. The Request for Arbitration, a public
record, supports the fact that Petitioner had to associate with the PPOA as it
states that the PPOA is the requesting party, and the request is being made on
behalf of Petitioner.” (SAP ¶ 32.) “On or
about September 16, 2022, ERCOM granted the Request for Arbitration from the
PPOA on behalf of Petitioner.” (SAP ¶ 38.) 
 
Thus, for purposes
of this demurrer, the court must assume the truth of the allegation that PPOA
made a request for arbitration on behalf of Petitioner and that ERCOM granted
the request.  Further, since the pleading
must be liberally construed, the court also assumes, absent allegations or
judicially noticeable materials to the contrary, PPOA has not withdrawn the request
for arbitration.  
 
Petitioner also sufficiently
alleges a claim that under the MOU she should be permitted to use counsel of
her choice for the arbitration in these circumstances. Section 6(1) of the MOU states “an employee, only if
he/she is represented by PPOA, may request that the grievance be submitted to
arbitration.” (SAP Exh. A-035.)  As the
court previously ruled on demurrer, the plain language of section 6(1) arguably
suggests the employee must be represented in the arbitration by PPOA and counsel
selected by PPOA. (Ruling 5.) Petitioner, however, has alleged sufficient facts
supporting a different and reasonable interpretation of section 6(1) and the
MOU.  Specifically, the SAP alleges: 
 
41. The MOU, Ex. A, does not restrict Petitioner from
proceeding to arbitration with her own attorney at her own expense. This is
supported by the PPOA’s interpretation of the policy, which allows Petitioner
to proceed to arbitration on her own. PPOA’s policy states, the “Policy
Governing Legal Service/Representation of Individuals” requires non-members to
proceed to arbitration at their own cost. The Policy states: 
 
In those rare circumstances in which access to
arbitration by an employee in a unit exclusively represented by PPOA is
exclusively controlled by PPOA and if, as a result, PPOA is the sole party
which may commence a petition to compel arbitration, PPOA may, subject to the
approval procedures set forth above, provide this additional assistance to
members and agency fee payers on the same bases without regard to membership
status. Once such access to arbitration is achieved, PPOA will provide no
additional assistance to nonmembers, including agency fee payers, and such nonmembers
must proceed entirely at their own cost. [[1]]

 
42. In fact, ERCOM shared a similar understanding of
the MOU, that the MOU does not provide that Petitioner’s grievance must
exclusively and solely be represented by the union during and throughout the
arbitration process. ERCOM has stated in the past that all that is required is
for Petitioner to comply with the procedural mechanisms for submitting and
initiating the arbitration proceeding, which Petitioner has done. 
 
43. Additionally, in the case of Binh Van Du v. Los
Angeles County Employee Relations Commission (LASC Case No. 20STCP00562),
ERCOM conceded that after a request for arbitration was granted, the employee
could proceed with the counsel of his choice. 
 
44. Van Du involved an LASD Deputy Sheriff (Van
Du) who sought to request arbitration through his own attorney, instead of
going through ALADS. Van Du did not have ALADS complete the request for
arbitration, and thus, his request was denied by ERCOM. Van Du then filed a
writ of mandate for the procedural denial of the request for arbitration. 
 
45. During the litigation, ERCOM conceded that,
“Respondent [ERCOM] is not arguing–nor does the MOU provide–that Petitioner’s
[Van Du’s] grievance may exclusively and solely be represented by ALADS
during and throughout the arbitration proceeding. Again, all that is
required is for Petitioner to comply with the procedural mechanisms for submitting
and initiating the arbitration proceeding.” 
 
46. ERCOM was correct. With the exception of the union
names (ALADS and PPOA) the arbitration sections of the two MOUs are identical.
For example, the MOU for ALADS states in relevant part: “Within ten (10)
business days from the receipt of the written decision of the department head
or his designated representative, an employee, only if he/she is represented by
ALADS, may request that the grievance be submitted to arbitration as provided
for hereinafter.” 
 
47. The identical (except for the union name) PPOA MOU
section states: “Within ten (10) business days from the receipt of the written
decision of the department head, or his designated representative, an employee,
only if he/she is represented by PPOA, may request that the grievance be
submitted to arbitration as provided for hereinafter.” 
 
48. Specifically, neither the ALADS MOU nor the
identical PPOA MOU require that the union represent the employee throughout the
arbitration process. Both MOU’s [sic] merely require the union to make the
initial request. Both MOU’s [sic] allow an employee to proceed with her own
representation.
 
(SAP ¶¶ 41-48 [all emphasis in
original].)  
 
Petitioner’s
interpretation of section 6(1) of the MOU, as pleaded in the SAP, shows an
ambiguity in the MOU that cannot be resolved at the pleading stage. Section
6(1) states that an employee may request that a grievance be submitted to
arbitration “only if he/she is represented by PPOA.”  That provision could mean that the employee
must be represented by PPOA and its attorneys both when requesting the
arbitration and throughout the arbitration. 
However, it could also be reasonably interpreted that PPOA need only
represent the employee when the request for arbitration is made. Section 6(1)
does not necessarily address whether the employee must be represented by
counsel for PPOA during the conduct of the arbitration.  The remaining provisions of section 6 of the MOU also
do not necessarily address
that issue of representation during the conduct of the arbitration. To the extent section 6(3) through (7) could be
interpreted to suggest PPOA will usually participate in the arbitration and
represent the employee, the court finds a latent ambiguity that cannot be
resolved on demurrer based on Petitioner’s extrinsic evidence discussed below.
(See SAP Exh. A-038-039.)
 
Thus, section 6(1)
and the MOU are ambiguous as to whether Petitioner may be represented by
counsel of her choice during the arbitration. In ruling on a demurrer without
the benefit of extrinsic evidence, the court may not construe an ambiguous
contract “in a manner contrary to the plaintiff's interpretation as alleged in
the complaint.” (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007)
148 Cal.App.4th 97, 115.)  
 
Furthermore,
Petitioner has pleaded extrinsic evidence in the SAP that, for purposes of
demurrer, shows an ambiguity in the MOU as applied to this case. “The test of
admissibility of extrinsic evidence to explain the meaning of a written
instrument is not whether it appears to the court to be plain and unambiguous
on its face, but whether the offered evidence is relevant to prove a meaning to
which the language of the instrument is reasonably susceptible.” (Delta
Dynamics, Inc. v. Arioto (1968) 69 Cal.2d 525, 528.)  
 
Here, Petitioner
alleges PPOA’s Policy Governing Legal Service/Representation of Individuals
states, if a request for arbitration is made and granted for nonmembers, “PPOA
will provide no additional assistance to nonmembers, including agency fee
payers, and such nonmembers must proceed entirely at their own cost.” (SAP ¶
41.) That policy suggests nonmembers may be permitted by PPOA and the MOU to
proceed to arbitration with their own attorneys and at their own cost.
Petitioner also pleads “ERCOM has stated in the past that all that is required
is for Petitioner to comply with the procedural mechanisms for submitting and
initiating the arbitration proceeding, which Petitioner has done.” (SAP ¶ 42.)
The court must assume the truth of that allegation for purposes of demurrer.
Finally, Petitioner has alleged the relevant arbitration provisions of the PPOA
and ALADS MOUs are “identical.” (SAP ¶¶ 46-47.) Given that allegation, ERCOM’s statement
in Binh Van Du v. Los Angeles County Employee Relations Commission that
the employee did not need to be “exclusively and solely represented by ALADS
during and throughout the arbitration” is relevant extrinsic evidence of how
section 6(1) and its “identical” counterpart in the ALADS MOU have been
interpreted in practice by ERCOM. (SAP ¶¶ 43-48.) The court must allow
Petitioner the opportunity to present this and other extrinsic evidence at
trial to prove up an ambiguity about the meaning of the MOU. (Fremont
Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp., supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at
115.)  
 
Further, Respondents
have not cited any extrinsic evidence to support their interpretations of the
MOU—Petitioner must be represented by PPOA and PPOA counsel throughout the
arbitration once a request for arbitration is made and granted.
 
The County contends
Binh Van Du v. Los Angeles County Employee Relations Commission is
irrelevant because it “involves a
different union, a different MOU, and different facts” and also because it
involved a deputy sheriff with certain statutory rights under the Government
Code. In reply, ERCOM contends Petitioner cites legal argument made in the
case, which is not a judicial admission. Given the new allegations in the SAP
regarding Binh Van Du v. Los
Angeles County Employee Relations Commission (see SAP ¶¶
43-48), which the court must accept as true on demurrer, Respondents
arguments are not persuasive.  
 
Petitioner pleads the relevant
arbitration provisions are “identical.” Thus, it is not dispositive that
ERCOM’s alleged admission was made with respect to a different union or
different MOU.  Whether ERCOM’s alleged
interpretation of the ALADS MOU constitutes a binding judicial admission the
court need not decide today. ERCOM’s alleged statements are relevant extrinsic
evidence of how a MOU provision identical to section 6(1) has been interpreted
by ERCOM as a matter of practice. Further, there are no statements in the SAP or
judicially noticed materials suggesting ERCOM’s interpretation of the ALADS MOU
was based on the employee being a deputy sheriff.  
 
In its demurrer, the
County does not otherwise address Petitioner’s allegations summarized above
that, as a matter of contract, Petitioner is entitled to be represented by her
own attorney “for arbitration that has been granted.” (SAP ¶ 65; see also SAP
¶¶ 41-48.) The County dismisses paragraphs 41-48 of the MOU as “argument and
contentions – not facts – about the Parties’ interpretation of the PPOA MOU
[and] the unrelated Binh Van Du v. Los Angeles County Employee Relations
Commission case.” (County Memo 11:5-8.) 
However, as discussed above, paragraphs 41-48 of the SAP plead extrinsic
evidence that is relevant to Petitioner’s interpretation of the MOU. Those
allegations are factual in nature and relevant to a pleading challenge.
Therefore, the County’s failure to address such relevant factual allegations supports
overruling the demurrer.
 
ERCOM appears to
address Petitioner’s new allegations when it argues “ERCOM has no authority to contravene the terms of the
MOU” and “[t]he terms of the MOU indicate that it is the union, PPOA, which has
the power to represent Petitioner at an arbitration.” (ERCOM Memo 17:3-5.) ERCOM
contends the MOU (at section 6(1)) contemplates that PPOA will, itself or
through its own attorneys, represent the employee in the arbitration. (ERCOM Memo
18:2-5.) ERCOM notes PPOA “would have to relinquish that right to represent its
members under the MOU.” (ERCOM Memo 18:6.) While ERCOM asserts a plausible
interpretation of section 6(1) of the MOU, it does not cite any extrinsic
evidence to support its position. Under the circumstances here, the parties’ interpretation dispute is
not properly resolved on demurrer. (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General
Corp., supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at 115.) 
 
 
In reply, the County
argues: “Petitioner’s gamesmanship in associating with PPOA only to file a
request for arbitration, and immediately divesting from PPOA upon ERCOM’s
granting of the arbitration request, does not provide her any ‘right’ to
proceed to arbitration.” (ERCOM Reply 5:9-12.) The County did not raise this
argument in the demurrer, and it does not show good cause to raise the argument
for the first time in reply. Petitioner has had not a full and fair opportunity
to respond to it. The court rejects the argument on that basis. (See Balboa Ins. Co. v. Aguirre (1983)
149 Cal.App.3d 1002, 1010 [“points raised in a reply brief for the first
time will not be considered unless good cause is shown for the failure to
present them before”.)  
 
Even if the court considered
the County’s tardy argument, it is not fully developed and is unpersuasive at
the pleading stage. Petitioner admits she did not join PPOA and that PPOA
nonetheless made a request for arbitration on her behalf after she “associated”
with PPOA.  (SAP ¶ 32.) The SAP does not allege PPOA has withdrawn the request
for arbitration, and the County does not cite any judicially noticeable records
showing that PPOA withdrew the request.  The
County cites no authority suggesting Petitioner association with PPOA for the
purpose of filing the request for arbitration with her disassociation
thereafter was improper. As discussed, Petitioner has pleaded a plausible
interpretation of the MOU under which Respondents have a ministerial duty to
proceed with arbitration in these circumstances. The County’s reply argument raises
factual and legal issues that cannot be resolved at the pleading stage.
 
In reply, ERCOM asserts “Petitioner has yet to allege there is even an
arbitrable dispute under the MOU.” (ERCOM Reply 3:17-18.) This argument was not
raised in either demurrer. Like the County, ERCOM does not show good cause to
raise its argument for the first time in reply. The court therefore rejects the
argument on that basis. (Balboa Ins. Co. v. Aguirre, supra, 149
Cal.App.3d at 1010.) Further,
ERCOM does not cite any allegations from the SAP or attached exhibits from
which it can be determined on the face of the pleading that Petitioner’s
grievance is not arbitrable.  
 
Based on the foregoing, Petitioner has
sufficiently pleaded Respondents have a ministerial duty to proceed with
arbitration pursuant to the terms of the MOU. “A demurrer must dispose of an entire
cause of action to be sustained.” (Poizner
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)  Accordingly, the court need not reach the
parties’ contentions as to the other claims asserted against the first cause of
action. Respondents are not precluded from raising all available defenses and
arguments at the trial on the writ petition. 

 
Exhaustion of Administrative Remedies 
 
Respondents contend Petitioner has
failed to plead exhaustion of administrative remedies because Petitioner
admittedly did not pursue an appeal of her suspension before the Director of
Personnel.
 
Exhaustion of administrative remedies
is “a jurisdictional prerequisite to judicial review.” (California Water Impact Network v. Newhall County
Water Dist. (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 1464, 1489.)
“The exhaustion requirement applies whether relief is sought by
traditional (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1085) or administrative (Code Civ. Proc., §
1094.5) mandamus.” (Eight Unnamed Physicians v.
Medical Executive Com. (2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 503, 511.)  
 
“Before seeking judicial review a
party must show that he has made a full presentation to the administrative
agency upon all issues of the case and
at all prescribed stages of the administrative proceedings.” (Edgren v. Regents of University of California (1984) 158 Cal.App.3d
515, 520 [emphasis added].) “The exhaustion doctrine precludes review of an
intermediate or interlocutory action of an administrative agency. A party must
proceed through the full administrative process ‘to a final decision on the merits.” (Alta
Loma School Dist. v. San Bernardino County Com. On School District
Reorganization (1981) 124 Cal.App.3d 542, 554.)  
 
There are exceptions to the exhaustion
requirement, including “when the subject of the controversy lies outside the
administrative agency's jurisdiction, when pursuit of an administrative remedy
would result in irreparable harm, when the administrative agency cannot grant
an adequate remedy, and when the aggrieved party can positively state what the
administrative agency's decision in his particular case would be.” (Edgren
v. Regents of University of
California, supra, 158
Cal.App.3d at 520 [citations omitted].)  
 
Here, Petitioner amended the SAP to clearly allege
Petitioner has a contractual right to arbitration and Respondents have a
ministerial duty to provide such arbitration and allow Petitioner to be
represented by her own counsel. (SAP ¶¶ 65, 73.) Petitioner also amended the
SAP to allege “the appeal to the Director of Personnel is not a required
administrative remedy with the County before arbitration. . . . The Rule 18.01
appeal does not provide for a remedy for the procedural denials at issue, nor
does the County have any other type of administrative remedy available for the
procedural denials at issue.” (SAP ¶¶ 36-37.) 

 
Given the amended allegations, Petitioner has
sufficiently alleged the Director of Personnel lacks authority pursuant to Rule
18.01 to consider or grant Petitioner’s request for arbitration pursuant to the
MOU. Petitioner has also sufficiently alleged the “the subject of the
controversy lies outside the administrative agency's jurisdiction” and “the
administrative agency cannot grant an adequate remedy.” (Edgren v. Regents of University of California, supra, 158 Cal.App.3d at 520.) Because
Petitioner has alleged these excuses from exhaustion, the court need not
consider whether Petitioner has sufficiently alleged the futility exception as
well.
 
Petitioner has sufficiently pleaded excuses from the exhaustion
requirement with respect to the administrative appeal pursuant to Rule
18.01.  
 
Second Cause of Action – Declaratory Relief 
 
The court sustained the prior demurrer to
the second cause of action, without leave to amend, because it is entirely
duplicative of the writ cause of action. Thus, Petitioner should not have
included the second cause of action for declaratory and injunctive relief in
the SAP. Since this cause of action was not authorized by the court and remains
entirely duplicative of the writ cause of action, the demurrer to the second
cause of action is sustained without leave to amend.  
 
CONCLUSION 
 
The demurrer to the first cause of
action is OVERRULED.  
 
The demurrer to the second cause of
action is SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
 IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
December 6, 2023                                                                 ________________________________ 
Hon. Mitchell Beckloff  
Judge of the Superior Court 
 
 


