  Case Number:  20VECV00914    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  W HOVIK
PASHAYAN V. MERCEDES-BENZ USA, LLC
 
PLAINTIFF HOVIK PASHAYAN’S MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF MERCEDES-BENZ USA, LLC’S PERSON MOST QUALIFIED
 
Date of Hearing:        March
14, 2024                                             Trial Date:       None set.
Department:              W                                                                    Case
No.:        20VECV00914
 
Moving Party:            Plaintiff
Hovik Pashayan 
Responding Party:     No
opposition.  
Meet and Confer:      Yes.
(Cohen Decl. ¶16.)  
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a lemon law action. Plaintiff Hovik Pashayan alleges
shortly after leasing a 2017 Mercedes S63, the Vehicle contained or developed
defects, listed below, that substantially impair the use, safety, and/or value
of the Vehicle.
 
On August 18, 2020, Plaintiff filed a complaint against
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC for (1) Violation of Subdivision (d) of Civil Code
section 1793.2; (2) Violation of Subdivision (b) of Civil Code section 1793.2;
(3) Violation of Subdivision (a)(3) of Civil Code section 1793.2; (4) Breach of
Express Written Warranty; and (5) Breach of Implied Warranty of
Merchantability. 
 
The court granted Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration on
December 9, 2021. On October 24, 2023, this court vacated the order compelling
arbitration due to Defendant’s failure to comply with Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.98. 
 
[TENTATIVE] RULING:
 
Plaintiff Hovik Pashayan’s Motion to Compel Deposition of
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC’s Person Most Qualified is GRANTED. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff moves the court for an order compelling Defendant
Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (“MBUSA”) to (1) designate and produce for deposition
its Person(s) Most Qualified (“PMQ”) on all categories of testimony enumerated
in Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition of MBUSA’s PMQ within 10 calendar days; and
(2) produce all documents requested in Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition of
MBUSA’s PMQ. Plaintiff makes the motion on the grounds that MBUSA’s PMQ has failed
to appear at deposition; MBUSA has not adequately responded to any of
Plaintiff’s meet and confer efforts; and MBUSA has offered no alternative
deposition dates before trial.
 
If after serve of a deposition notice, a party to an action,
without serving a valid objection, fails to appear for examination or to
produce for inspection any document described in the deposition notice, the
noticing party may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document described in the deposition
notice. (CCP § 2025.450(a).) If such motion to compel is granted, the court
shall impose a monetary sanction against the deponent unless the court finds
that the deponent acted with substantial justification. (CCP § 2025.450
(g)(1).)
 
Plaintiff argues MBUSA served no objection – timely or
otherwise – to Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition of MBUSA’s PMQ. Accordingly, on
January 5, 2024, Plaintiff took a notice of nonappearance of MBUSA’s PMQ. Plaintiff
contends furthermore there is good cause for Plaintiff’s proposed categories of
examination and document requests. In short, the requested information and
documents fall under several broad categories, all of which are relevant to Plaintiff’s
claims and MBUSA’s defenses: (1) Evidence regarding the Subject Vehicle; (2)
Evidence regarding MBUSA’s Policies and Procedures; (3)
Evidence regarding Similar Defects; and (4) Evidence regarding MBUSA’s defenses
in this matter. 
 
Here, Plaintiff has properly demonstrated he contacted
Defendant after Defendant failed to appear or object to the deposition to
inquire about the non-appearance. To date, no opposition has been filed. 
The motion to compel is unopposed and granted.  (CCP § 2025.450(a).) MBUSA’s
PMQ is ordered to appear for their deposition at a date, time, and location to
be noticed by Plaintiff.  Plaintiff must
give at least ten days’ notice of the deposition (notice extended per Code if
by other than personal service).  