  Case Number:  22STCV21130    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



MARCELUS
  LAIDLER, et al.,  
  
         vs.
 
COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES, et al.


 Case No.: 
  22STCV21130
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 11, 2024



 
Defendant County
of Los Angeles’ demurrer to Plaintiff Marcelus Laidler ex rel Debra
Legans’ third amended complaint is overruled as to the 4th cause of action. 
 
Defendant County
of Los Angeles (“County”) (“Moving Defendant”) demurs to Plaintiff Marcellus
Laidler’s, individually, by and through his guardian ad litem and conservator
Debra Legans, (“Laidler”) (“Plaintiff”) third amended complaint (“TAC”).  (Notice of Demurrer, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P.
§§430.10(e), (f).)
 
Background
Plaintiff filed
his initial Complaint on June 29, 2022. 
On May 17, 2023, Plaintiff filed his first amended complaint (“FAC”)
against Moving Defendant and Non-moving Defendants Los Angeles
Department of Health Services (“LADHS”), Los Angeles County + University of
Southern California Medical Center aka LAC+USC Medical Center (“LAC+USC
Medical”), and University of Southern California (“USC”) (collectively,
“Defendants”).  On October 31, 2023, this
Court overruled Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 10th cause of action and
sustained with leave to amend Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiff’s 1st, 2nd,
4th, 5th, and 6th causes of action.  On
November 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed his second amended complaint (“SAC”).  On January 26, 2024, this Court overruled
Defendants’ demurrer to the 1st cause of action and sustained with 20 days
leave to amend the demurrer to the 2nd, 4th, and 6th causes of action and
sustained the demurrer without leave to amend as to the 5th cause of action. 
On February 21,
2024, the parties stipulated to allow Plaintiff to file an amended
complaint.  On February 29, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the operative TAC alleging eight causes of action: (1) violation
of Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act [against all Defendants]; (2) negligent
hiring, retention, and supervision [against County and USC]; (3) professional
negligence [against County and USC]; (4) violation of the Unruh Civil
Rights Act [against County and USC]; (5) battery [against USC and
DOES 1-200]; (6) assault [against USC and DOES 1-200]; (7) false imprisonment
[against USC and DOES 1-200]; and (8) intentional infliction of emotional
distress [against USC and DOES 1-200].
This action
arises out of Plaintiff’s admission to LAC+USC Medical on or about April-May
2021 for medical treatment for, among other things, ulcer of the esophagus. 
(TAC ¶15.)  Plaintiff alleges he at all relevant times was a “dependent
adult” as defined in Welfare and Institutions Code §15610.23 and suffered from
manic depression, bipolar disorder, and schizophrenia.  (TAC ¶16.) 

Plaintiff alleges
while he was at LAC+USC Medical, Defendants, including their clinical/nursing
staff, while acting as custodial caregivers for Plaintiff, so neglected,
abandoned, and abused his care by using seclusion and physical restraints as a
means of coercion, discipline, staff convenience, or staff retaliation upon
Plaintiff.  (TAC ¶20.)  Plaintiff alleges for approximately six
months from April of 2021 through October of 2021, when Plaintiff was admitted
to LAC+USC Medical, and while admitted to department “2E,” Plaintiff was
subjected to the unwarranted, unauthorized, and illegal use of 5-point physical
restraints by County clinical and non-clinical staff.  (TAC ¶21.) 
Plaintiff alleges this involved several male members of County clinical
staff using excessive force and unnecessary violence to physically dominate,
hurt, and humiliate Plaintiff.  (TAC ¶21.)  Plaintiff alleges this included smothering
his face with a pillow in order to suffocate him, causing him to black out on
at least one occasion; covering his nose and mouth with their hands to prevent
Plaintiff from breathing; sticking fingers in Plaintiffs eye to cause further
injury and humiliation.  (TAC ¶21.)  
Plaintiff alleges
he was restrained at least 50 times in a span of five months while in the care
and custody of Defendants and the rate of restraint was excessive and unlawful
in its basis for initiation and frequency, as physical restraints were
whimsically used as a failsafe mechanism to punish, taunt, humiliate, and
retaliate against Plaintiff in response to everything from psychiatric verbal
outbursts to simply agitating, annoying and “non-redirectable” behavior.  (TAC ¶22.) 
Plaintiff alleges he endured hours and days long restraints for
unspecified non-violent “offenses”, despite posing no health or safety risk to
himself or other staff and/or residents of the facility.  (TAC ¶22.) 

Plaintiff alleges
a pattern and practice of improper restraint initiations and duration by LAC+USC
Medical occurred from June 3, 2021, through October 6, 2021, where Plaintiff
was subject to several hour-long and sometimes continuous day confinements,
ostensibly in response to his “[inability] to following instructions” and
“[interference] with care.”  (TAC
¶23.)  Plaintiff alleges the majority of
these restraints—almost invariably during the first two to three months of
Plaintiff’s residency—were ordered due to Plaintiff “not listening” or
committing acts as innocuous as “spill[ing] Gatorade . . . and spill[ing]
water” and “not following instructions” (i.e. “creates an unsafe condition”) as
per Mayra Munoz, RN before she initiated restraints on September 18, 2021.  (TAC ¶23.) 
Plaintiff alleges nursing notes taken by Claudia Marin on September 9,
2021, indicate Plaintiff screaming at Nurse Marin after he reported being left
restrained and unattended for four to five hours.  (TAC ¶23.) 

Plaintiff alleges
County was at all times aware of LAC+USC Medical’s inordinately high restraint
rate compared to the state and national average and blatantly and negligently
disregarded its responsibility to investigate and ameliorate its systematic
deficiencies.  (TAC ¶25.)  Plaintiff alleges as a result, he endured
unlawful restraints on the following dates of admission: June 3, 4, 5, 7, 9,
10, 12, 15, 17, 18, 19, 21, 25, 26, 29, and 31, 2021, and August 5, 2021,
September 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 17, 18, 19, 20, 23, 24, 25, and 30, 2021,
October 1, 5, and 6, 2021.  (TAC
¶25.)  
Plaintiff alleges
most restraint incidents lasted several days, and were devoid of any iota of
legality, or adherence to applicable state or federal guidelines on restraints,
whereby County staff would essentially leave Plaintiff tied down—most often
along all 5 points of his body—for several days at a time, where he was cursed
at, taunted, ignored, and left with little to no provisions.  (TAC ¶27.) 
Plaintiff alleges this includes County’s intentional refusal to treat
Plaintiff’s critical condition by depriving him of necessary nutrition,
hygiene, and critical medical care during his day’s long periods of confinement.  (TAC ¶27.) 
Plaintiff alleges he suffered from the burn of thick leather belts
tightly wrapped around his wrists and ankles that were cutting against his skin
with his every movement or rotation, for days on end.  (TAC ¶27.) 
Plaintiff alleges during county’s inhumane and illegal detention,
Plaintiff could do nothing more than remain still to prevent the torturous
burns from the belts, urinary acid, and feces in which he was left to wallow.  (TAC ¶27.) 
Plaintiff alleges County clinical staff would seldom crack open his door
only to find Plaintiff laying in a pool of his own urine and feces.  (TAC ¶27.) 
Plaintiff alleges some would taunt him, while most utterly ignored his
dire medical needs.  (TAC ¶27.)  
On May 23, 2024,
Defendant filed the instant demurrer.  On
June 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed his opposition. 
On July 3, 2024, Defendant filed its reply.
 
A.  
Demurrer
Summary of
Demurrer
Defendant demurs to
the 4th cause of action on the basis it does not allege facts sufficient to
support a cause of action and is uncertain. 
(Notice of Demurrer, pg. 2; C.C.P. §§430.10(e), (f).)[1] 
 
          Meet and Confer
Before filing a
demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in
person, by telephone, or by video conference with the party who filed the
pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an
agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the
demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a), emphasis
added.)  A declaration must be filed with
a demurrer regarding the results of the meet and confer process.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).)
Defendants’
counsel’s declaration states that on April 21, 2024, her office sent
correspondence to Plaintiff’s counsel outlining the deficiencies in the TAC and
requesting counsel call her office. 
(Decl. of Hogoboom ¶11, Exh. D.) 
Defendants’ counsel declares the correspondence went unanswered.  (Decl. of Hogoboom ¶12.)  Defendants’ counsel’s declaration is insufficient
under C.C.P. §430.41(a) because she does not indicate that she attempted to
meet and confer in person, by telephone, or by video conference.  However, failure to sufficiently meet and
confer is not grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(4); Dumas v. Los Angeles
County Board of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355; Olson v.
Hornbrook Community Services District (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 502, 515.)  Therefore, the Court will consider the
instant demurrer.
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Insurance Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider
declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted
for the truth of their contents].)  For
purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed
to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of
law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital
District (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)

 
Failure to State
a Claim
          Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights
Act (4th COA)
A cause of action
under the Unruh Civil Rights Act must allege the following elements: (1) that
defendant denied/aided or incited a denial of or discriminated or made a
distinction that denied full and equal accommodations/ advantages/
facilities/ privileges/ services to plaintiff; (2) that a substantial motivating reason
for defendant’s conduct was its perception of plaintiff’s sex/ race/ color/ religion/
ancestry/ national origin/ medical condition/ genetic information/ marital
status/ sexual orientation/ citizenship/ primary language/ immigration status/
other actionable characteristic; (3) that plaintiff was harmed; and (4) that
defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.  (CACI 3060.)
There
are two causation elements: There must be a causal link between the
discriminatory intent and the adverse action (see element 2), and there must be
a causal link between the adverse action and the harm (see element 4).  (CACI 3060, Directions for Use.)
Whether a
defendant is a “business establishment” is decided as an issue of law.  (Rotary Club of Duarte v. Board of
Directors (1986) 178 Cal.App.3d 1035, 1050.)
“[T]he language
and history of the Unruh Act indicate that the legislative object was to
prohibit intentional discrimination in access to public accommodations. We have
been directed to no authority, nor have we located any, that would justify
extension of a disparate impact test, which has been developed and applied by
the federal courts primarily in employment discrimination cases, to a general
discrimination-in-public-accommodations statute like the Unruh Act. Although
evidence of adverse impact on a particular group of persons may have probative
value in public accommodations cases and should therefore be admitted in
appropriate cases subject to the general rules of evidence, a plaintiff must
nonetheless plead and prove a case of intentional discrimination to recover
under the Act.”  (Harris v. Capital
Growth Investors XIV (1991) 52 Cal.3d 1142, 1149, 1175.)
          Plaintiff alleges at all times herein
relevant, Plaintiff was an African-American, male, and was both known and
perceived to be such by defendants and each of them within the meaning of
California Civil Code §§51(b), 51.5(a), and 52(a), (e), (f) and (h) and thus
Plaintiff at all times herein relevant was entitled to the protections, rights
and remedies provided thereunder.  (TAC
¶89.)
Plaintiff alleges
at all times herein relevant, County and USC were engaged in a Joint Venture in
the operation and management of LAC+USC Medical Center, a teaching hospital,
and combined their property, skill, and knowledge to carry out a business
undertaking and agreed to share the control, profits, and losses resulting from
the aforesaid Joint Venture.  (TAC ¶90.)  Plaintiff alleges County and USC and each of
them were “business establishments” within the meaning of California Civil Code
§§51(b), 51.5(a), and 52(a), (e), (f) and (h). 
(TAC ¶90.)  
Plaintiff alleges
as the legal result of County’s and USC’s intentional and unlawful, misconduct,
acts and omissions hereinabove alleged motivated by defendants’ race/gender
animus, bias and discrimination against plaintiff as an African-American male,
defendants and each of them, wrongfully, unlawfully, intentionally and in
conscious disregard for plaintiff's rights and well-being caused Plaintiff
paid, emotional and physical harm by using overt and unnecessary seclusion and
physical restraints as a means of coercion, discipline, staff convenience,
and/or staff retaliation upon Plaintiff based at least in part on account of
his race.  (TAC ¶91.)  Plaintiff alleges that for approximately six
months from April of 2021 through October of 2021 when Plaintiff was admitted
to LAC+USC Medical Center, and while admitted to department “2E”, Plaintiff was
subjected to the unwarranted, unauthorized, and illegal use of 5-point physical
restraints by County clinical and non-clinical staff.  (TAC ¶91.) 
Plaintiff alleges this involved several male members of County clinical
staff using excessive force and unnecessary violence to physically dominate,
hurt, and humiliate Plaintiff.  (TAC
¶91.)  Plaintiff alleges this included
smothering his face with a pillow in order to suffocate him, causing him to
black out on at least one occasion; covering his nose and mouth with their
hands to prevent Plaintiff from breathing; sticking fingers in Plaintiff’s eye
to cause further injury and humiliation on account of the Plaintiff’s race,
both in direct violation of the Unruh Act and in violation of the
constitutional and statutory public policy of the State of California against
racial discrimination.  (TAC ¶91.)  
Plaintiff alleges
as the legal result of unlawful, racial animus, biased conduct, acts and
omissions hereinabove alleged, plaintiff has suffered non-economic damages,
including but not limited to, frustration, anxiety, insult, fear, emotional
distress, humiliation, mental anguish, anger, insecurity, uncertainty and other
detrimental psychological and emotional upset and damages all to plaintiff's
noneconomic damage in amount to be shown according to proof at trial.  (TAC ¶91.)
Plaintiff alleges
as the legal result of unlawful, racial animus, biased conduct, acts and
omissions hereinabove alleged, plaintiff has suffered non-economic damages,
including but not limited to, frustration, anxiety, insult, fear, emotional
distress, humiliation, mental anguish, anger, insecurity, uncertainty and other
detrimental psychological and emotional upset and damages all to plaintiff's
noneconomic damage in amount to be shown according to proof at trial.  (TAC ¶92.)
Plaintiff alleges
a motivating reason for the acts, omissions, and conduct of Defendant(s), was
their perception of, and more particularly, discrimination toward, Plaintiff’s
ethnicity or race as an African American. 
(TAC ¶95.)
Plaintiff alleges
Defendants’ acts, omission, and conduct was a substantial factor in causing Plaintiff
to suffer serious, physical, psychological, mental, and emotional injuries.  (TAC ¶96.) 
Plaintiff alleges there is a causal link between the adverse actions of
County Defendants and USC vis-à-vis LAC+USC Medical doctors, nurses, and staff
and the harm suffered by Plaintiff because Plaintiff’s injuries are a direct consequence
of inhumane restraint and detention measures administered by County Defendants
and USC vis-à-vis LAC+USC Medical doctors, nurses, and staff, who administered
such inhumane practices for no reason but to physically, mentally and
emotionally subdue and humiliate Plaintiff whom Defendants wrongly perceived as
a usual threat on the basis of his race and ethnicity as an African American
male.  (TAC ¶96.)  Plaintiff alleges the adverse restraint
actions led to the physical, mental, and psychological injuries bore by
Plaintiff to this day and for the rest of his life, as he deals with frequent
night terrors of being strapped to a bed in “Department 2E” where LAC+USC
Medical staff are taunting and torturing him. 
(TAC ¶97.)  Plaintiff alleges he
also lives with scars and skin abrasions that serve as direct and constant
reminders of the adverse actions endured at the hands of the following County
Defendants’ discriminatory practices.  (TAC
¶97.)
          Plaintiff sufficiently alleges
a causal link between the discriminatory intent and the adverse action.  (See CACI 3060, Directions for Use; Harris,
52 Cal.3d at pg. 1175.)  Further,
Plaintiff sufficiently alleges specific conduct that might violate the Unruh
Civil Rights Act.  (TAC ¶91.)
          Accordingly, Defendants’ demurrer to
Plaintiff’s 4th cause of action is overruled.
 
Uncertainty
A demurrer for
uncertainty will be sustained only where the complaint is so bad that defendant
cannot reasonably respond—i.e., he or she cannot reasonably determine what
issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed
against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s
of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
If the complaint
contains enough facts to apprise defendant of the issues it is being asked to
meet, failure to label each cause of action is not ground for demurrer:
“Although inconvenient, annoying and inconsiderate, the lack of labels . . .
does not substantially impair [defendant’s] ability to understand the
complaint.” (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d
135, 139 n.2.)
Plaintiff’s 4th
cause of action is not so uncertain that Defendant cannot reasonably determine
what issues must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed
against them.
Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer on the basis of uncertainty is overruled.
 
Conclusion
Defendants’
demurrer to Plaintiff’s TAC is overruled as to the 4th cause of action.
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
Dated:  July
_____, 2024
                                                                             





  