 Case Number:  22STCV27975    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JYLA
  ELSA CORRAL, et al.,  
  
         vs.
 
FORD
  MOTOR COMPANY, et al.


 Case No.: 
  22STCV27975
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 11, 2024



 
Defendant Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies Corporation’s unopposed
motion for leave to file a cross-complaint against Defendants International
Service Center, Inc. and Edwin Torres is granted.  Defendant Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies
Corporation may file the proposed cross-complaint with the Court.
 
          Defendant
Westinghouse Air Brake Technologies Corporation (“Wabtec”) (“Moving
Defendant”) moves unopposed for an order granting leave to file a cross-complaint
(“CC”) against Defendants International Service Center, Inc. (“ISC”) and Edwin
Torres (“Torres”) (collectively, “Defendants”) on the grounds that the CC
arises out of the same general facts as the operative Complaint (and cross-complaints)
presently on file, that no prejudice will result to the Defendants by the
granting of this motion, and that the CC, which Wabtec now seeks to file, will
serve to protect the interests of Wabtec should a judgment be entered against
it.  (Notice
of Motion, pg. 1.)
          
          Procedural
Background
          This lawsuit
brought by Plaintiffs Jyla Elsa Corral, Jonaven Hess Corral, Jazlyn Leilani
Corral, Jayven Cali Corral, and Jocelyn Gianna Corral, by and through their GAL
Rafal Corral, (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) individually and as successors in
interest to Heather Susy Garcia (“Decedent”) arises from a fatal accident on
January 22, 2022, wherein Decedent fell out of a moving party bus. Plaintiffs
filed their initial complaint on August 26, 2022, against Ford Motor Company
(“Ford”), ISC, and Torres (the owner and driver of the bus) (collectively,
“Plaintiffs”).  ISC filed a
cross-complaint against Wabtec on October 20, 2023,
which Wabtec answered on November 20, 2023.  On October 5, 2023, Plaintiffs amended their complaint
to add Wabtec as a Doe defendant.  On
December 15, 2023, Plaintiffs moved for leave to file a First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”), which this Court heard and granted on April 11, 2024.  On July 2, 2024, this Court approved Ford’s applications
for good faith settlement determination with Plaintiffs and Defendants Grech
Motors Inc. and Edward P. Grech.
          Wabtec filed
the instant motion on May 2, 2024.  As of
the date of this hearing no opposition has been filed.
 
          Motion for Leave to Amend
C.C.P.
§426.50 provides:
A party who fails to plead a
cause of action subject to the requirements of this article, whether through
oversight, inadvertence, mistake, neglect, or other cause, may apply to the
court for leave to amend his pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such
cause at any time during the course of the action. The court, after notice to
the adverse party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties,
leave to amend the pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause
if the party who failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This section
shall be liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action. 
(C.C.P.
§426.50.)
California
rules further provide authority to file a Cross-Complaint against a party who
has filed a Complaint against the movant if the claims arise out of the same
occurrences as the claims brought against it.  (See C.C.P. §§428.10(a)-(b).) 
At
any time during the course of the lawsuit, the court retains power to permit
defendant to file or amend a cross-complaint to avoid forfeiture of defendant’s
“related” claim.  (See Silver Organizations Ltd. v. Frank
(1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 98-99 [stating even on “eve of trial,” leave to file
compulsory cross-complaint mandatory absent bad faith].) 
CRC
Rule 3.1324(a) requires that a motion to amend must: “[i]nclude a copy of the
proposed . . . amended pleading . . . [and] state what allegations in the
previous pleading are proposed to be [deleted and/or added], if any, and where,
by page, paragraph, and line number, the [deleted and/or additional]
allegations are located.” 
CRC
Rule 3.1324(b) provides, as follows: “[a] separate declaration must accompany
the motion and must specify: (1) [t]he effect of the amendment; (2) [w]hy the
amendment is necessary and proper; (3) [w]hen the facts giving rise to the
amended allegations were discovered; and (4) [t]he reasons why the request for
amendment was not made earlier.” 
Wabtec’s
motion substantially complies with CRC Rule 3.1324(a).  The motion
includes a copy of the proposed CC.  (Decl. of Lohman ¶6, Exh. A.)   
Webtec’s
motion substantially complies with CRC Rule 3.1324(b).  Wabtec submitted a separate declaration of its
counsel that specifies the effect of the amendments and explains why the
amendments are necessary and proper.  (Decl. of Lohman ¶2.)  Wabtec
asserts the amendments are necessary because it determined that there are
indemnification and apportionment claims it has against Defendants ISC and
Torres which arise out of the same transactions and occurrences giving rise to
this case.  (Decl. of Lohman ¶2.)
Wabtec’s
counsel states when the facts giving rise of the amended allegations were
discovered and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  Wabtec’s counsel declares, “[h]aving
participated in the March 27, 2024 inspection of the subject bus and participated
in discovery, Wabtec would be prejudiced should the Court not grant leave for
it to file its Cross-Complaint against ISC and Torres, as it would be barred
from making these claims in a separate action.” 
(Decl. of Lohman ¶5.)  Plaintiff’s
counsel further declares, “Wabtec did not file a Cross-Complaint against ISC
initially at the time that it answered its Cross-Complaint against Wabtec,
albeit in good faith, while it investigated the claims asserted in this matter.
For the same reasons, Wabtec also did not file a Cross-Complaint against
Torres.”  (Decl. of Lohman ¶¶3-4.)
Based
on the foregoing, Wabtec’s motion for leave to file its CC against ISC and
Torres is granted.  
 
          Conclusion
Wabtec’s
unopposed motion for leave to file its CC against ISC and Torres is
granted.  Wabtec may file the proposed CC
with the Court.
          Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated:  July _____, 2024
                                                                             





  