  Case Number:  20GDCV00568    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      March 5, 2024                                     TRIAL DATE: June 25, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         NATIONAL UNION
FIRE INSURANCE COMPANY OF PITTSBURGH, PA v. CITY OF PASADENA; ROSE BOWL
OPERATING COMPANY; and DOES 1-100, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 20GDCV00568
 
            
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff National Union Fire
Insurance Company of Pittsburgh PA
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendants
City of Pasadena (the “City”) and Rose Bowl Operating Company (“RBOC”)
 
SERVICE:                              Filed November 28, 2023
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed February 29, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed February 27, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Plaintiff moves for an order
compelling the deposition testimony of Defendants’ PMQ and for the production
of documents. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiff National
Union Fire Insurance Company of Pittsburgh, PA’s (“Plaintiff”) subrogation
claim for settlement payments in a prior lawsuit. Plaintiff filed a first
amended complaint on January 22, 2021.
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Plaintiffs’
motions to compel the deposition testimony of Defendants’ PMQs and to compel
the production of documents are DENIED. 
 
            All
requests for sanctions are denied. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (a), provides: “If, after service
of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under
Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to
produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or
tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice
may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and
the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored
information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.450 subdivision (b) requires that any motion under
subdivision (a) set forth specific facts showing good cause and a meet and
confer declaration or, when a deponent fails to attend the deposition, a
declaration stating the moving party contacted the deponent to inquire about
the nonappearance. 
 
“If a
deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent's control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480, subd. (a).) “If the court
determines that the answer or production sought is subject to discovery, it
shall order that the answer be given or the production be made on the
resumption of the deposition.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2025.480, subd. (i).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
            The
present motions involve discovery disputes between the parties arising from
Plaintiff’s attempt to subpoena witnesses and documents. Plaintiff provides
that on September 21, 2023, it separately served Defendants with notices of
deposition for Defendants’ person most qualified (“PMQ”). Since then, the
parties have engaged in various deposition hearings as follows: (1) On January
18, 2024, David Sams on behalf of RBOC (Farrow Decl. ¶
4); (2) On January 19, 2024, George Rodgriguez on behalf of the City (Id. ¶
5); and On February 2, 2024, Joaquin Siques on behalf of the City (Id. ¶
7). Defendants also produced Darryl Dunn, a retired RBOC general manager.
(Nebenzahl Decl. ¶ 2.1.) However, Plaintiff provides that at deposition, Dunn
stated he was not the PMQ for the relevant category and Plaintiff’s counsel
concluded the deposition. (Anderson Decl. ¶ 4.) 
 
            Plaintiff
contends that a variety of topics and documents are still outstanding.
Plaintiff contends that it is still seeking a witness to testify as to RBOC’s
PMQ categories numbers 8 and 9, and document requests numbers 8 and 9.
Plaintiff also contends that it is still seeking a witness to testify as to the
City’s PMQ categories numbers 8, 9, 10, 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23,
and 24 and documents requests numbers 8, 9, 10, 13, 14, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21,
22, 23, and 24. The court notes that although Plaintiff submitted a separate
statement for each Defendant, several of the discovery topics are missing from
the separate statements. For example, although Plaintiff seeks to compel
deposition to categories 16 through 24 and requests for production 16 through
24, Plaintiff only includes request 16 and 24 in its separate statement
but omits any requests in between.
 
            Plaintiff
contends that on February 14, 2024, counsel for the respective parties
communicated regarding the outstanding issues. (Farrow Decl. ¶  8.) Plaintiff’s counsel
asserts he offered to prepare a declaration covering the remaining topics but
that Defendants’ counsel provided that the declaration were “not going to
work”. (Id. ¶  8, Exhibit H.) 
 
The
parties have engaged in efforts to resolve the pending discovery issue but
seemed to have reached an impasse regarding the remaining categories and
witnesses. Plaintiff argues Defendants have engaged in gamesmanship while
Defendants contend they are not able to provide witnesses or documents at issue
because they are unable to find appropriate witnesses or documents. The court notes
that “[c]ivil discovery is intended to operate with a minimum of judicial
intervention. ‘[I]t is a “central precept” of the Civil Discovery Act ... that
discovery ‘be essentially self-executing[.]’ ” (Sinaiko Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
390, 402.)
 
            In the
present case, it seems that the parties are in the best position to resolve
this dispute. At the current juncture the court is not privy to whether
responsive witnesses or documents actually exist and are in Defendants’
possession. While discovery issues may still be unresolved, it does not appear
to be the case that Defendants’ counsel are intentionally withholding
information or failing to engage in a good faith effort to find responsive
documents or witnesses. (Nebenzahl Decl. ¶ 2.) Furthermore, the parties
attempt to draft a declaration resolving the outstanding issues appear to only
be at the beginning stages. Discussion between the parties appears to be the
most prudent way to resolve these issues.
 
            Plaintiffs’
motions to compel the deposition testimony of Defendants’ PMQs are denied. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiffs’
motions to compel the deposition testimony of Defendants’ PMQs and to compel
the production of documents are DENIED. 
 
            All
requests for sanctions are denied. 
 
 
            Moving
Party to provide notice. 
 
            
Dated:   March 5, 2024                                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court



Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention
to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org 