 Case Number:  22GDCV00664    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  D TENTAIVE RULINGCalendar:  3 Date: 9/13/2024 Case No:  22 GDCV00664 Trial Date:  April 7, 2025Case Name: Tarakjian v. Assali, et. al MOTION TO COMPEL DOCUMENT PRODUCTIONMoving Party: Plaintiff Raffi Tarakjian  Responding Party:  Defendant George Assali   Name of Deponent:  George Assali        Status of Deponent: Defendant (party)DEPO ATTENDANCE REQUIRED BY:Formal Notice  [Exhibit A]. RELIEF REQUESTED BY MOVING PARTY:Order compelling defendant Assali to produce documents in response to plaintiff’s notice of deposition  FACTUAL BACKGROUND:Plaintiff Raffi Tarakjian alleges that in 2016, plaintiff met defendant George Assali, who represented to plaintiff that he was a licensed real estate agent, had been doing property flips for over twenty years, had never lost money flipping properties, and that defendant guaranteed that he would return a profit on plaintiff’s investment.  During several meetings, the parties agreed that plaintiff would provide funding for property from an auction and additional funding as needed to remodel the property after its purchase, and that defendant would be responsible for managing the remodeling of the purchased property. Once the remodeling was complete, the property would be sold by defendant Assali acting as the selling agent, or rented out, and plaintiff would receive the net profit from the sale of each property.  It was also agreed that invoices for all expenses would be provided to plaintiff, and that plaintiff could demand the return of his investment at any time.   Plaintiff alleges that plaintiff formed and registered CARP Property, LLC to purchase properties to be remodeled and sold.  After two successful property flips, defendant Assali insisted that CARP Property, LLC no longer be used to purchase the investment properties, but that all future transactions should go through defendant personally or through his corporation, defendant UASA, LLC. Plaintiff agreed to this modification of the terms of the original agreement.  The complaint alleges that plaintiff transferred further funds to Assali to be used to purchase two properties in Long Beach, and further funds were provided for Long Beach flip supplies and a porch add on, but Assali did not provide plaintiff with any of the profits from the sale of the properties being flipped, insisting that the profits be added to the original investment to have more capital to purchase more properties, or higher valued properties.  Sometime thereafter, defendant stopped sharing details of the properties with plaintiff. Plaintiff alleges that in December of 2018, a property in Glendale was successfully flipped, and that, upon information and belief, from 2018 to 2020, Assali purchased multiple properties that were eventually sold for a profit. When Assali’s communications with plaintiff became inconsistent and defendant stopped involving plaintiff in the details of the properties being purchased and sold, plaintiff requested that Assali repay plaintiff whatever plaintiff was owed.  After making three payments through UASA, LLC to either CARP Property LLC or to plaintiff, Assali claimed he was not able to return the remaining funds owed to plaintiff and that he would return the money on the next property flips. Plaintiff alleges that plaintiff has made multiple demands for Assali to return the amount owed to plaintiff, but Assali has refused to return plaintiff’s money, and ignored plaintiff’s demands.  ANALYSIS:Plaintiff Rafi Tarakjian seeks to compel the production of documents called for in the deposition notice served on defendants George Assali, which defendant did not object to and did not produce at deposition.  The deposition was duly noticed, with the Notice of Deposition requesting the production of 75 categories of documents.  [Ex. A].  Plaintiff did not object in writing to the Notice of Deposition or any of the requests for documents.  [Yacoubian Decl., para. 3].  Plaintiff argues that during the deposition, it became apparent that Assali failed to produce documents in his possession which were responsive to five of the requests, as confirmed by plaintiff’s testimony.  CCP § 2025.450 (a) provides, in pertinent part:“(a) If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party..., without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.” The moving papers sufficiently establish that the deponent, who is a party to the action, was served with a deposition notice, and did not serve objections to the deposition notice, and failed to produce for inspection documents described in the deposition notice.      Under CCP § 2025.450 (b):“(b) A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following:(1) The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.(2) The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.”The burden is on the moving party to show both relevance to the subject matter and specific facts justifying discovery.   Glenfed Develop. Corp. v. Superior Court (1997, 2nd Dist.) 53 Cal.App.4th 1113, 1117.   Once good cause is established by the moving party, the burden then shifts to the responding party to justify any objections made to document disclosure.   See Hartbrodt v. Burke (1996, 2nd Dist.) 42 Cal.App.4th 168, 172-174.Good cause is shown when a moving party provides a fact-specific showing of relevance.  Kirkland v. Superior Court (2002, 2nd Dist.) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98. Requests Nos. 7 and 73 These requests seek “Each and every COMMUNICATION, including text messages or social media COMMUNICATIONS with MR. TARAKJIAN from January 1, 2016 to the present,”  (No. 7) and “Any and all WRITINGS (as defined by Evidence Code §250) RELATED TO any COMMUNICATION, including but not limited to e-mails, text messages, social media with Faycal Alex Hamadi concerning MR. TARAKJIAN during the period of January 1, 2016, through the present” (No. 73).   Plaintiff argues that the information requested by each of these requests is crucial to plaintiff’s case and directly relevant to the gravamen of his complaint.  It would appear that the information is discoverable, although it is not explained how Hamadi is involved in this action, but the communications are with defendant and directly concern plaintiff.  [See Yacoubian Decl., Ex. C, Assali Depo., pp. 169-170 and 152-153].    Plaintiff submits the deposition transcript in which Assali testified that he had a text message, evidently from plaintiff Tarakjian, which the deponent indicated he had given to counsel, but the text message had not been produced. [See Yacoubian Decl., Ex. C, Assali Depo., pp. 169-170].   It is evidently a text in which it was stated by plaintiff, “I’ll make it up to you.”  [Id.].   This information is discoverable, and responsive to at least Request No. 7.  This showing shifts the burden to defendant to justify any objections or failure to fully respond.   Defendant has attempted to file, evidently in response to this motion, a document entitled “Informal Discovery Conference,” which indicates it is related to a “Request for Informal Discovery Conference,” and appears to argue that plaintiff’s request for further discovery, evidently this motion, seeks an inappropriate form of response, as plaintiff is seeking a “native” version of emails exchanged between the parties, but this requirement is not in the code.  Defendant also indicates that these two parties in their communications never used email, but only used text messages, which do not have a “native” version. This document was rejected by the court and notice sent on September 6, 2024, with the court stating the reason for the return of the document, “Rejected:   File a noticed motion.”   Plaintiff has also since filed an untimely opposition to the motion, filed on September 5, 2024.  Under CCP §1005(b):“All papers opposing a motion…shall be filed with the court and a copy served on each party at least nine court days… before the hearing.”  Under CRC Rule 3.1300(d), “If the court, in its discretion, refuses to consider a late filed paper, the minutes or order must so indicate.”  Here, the opposition was served and filed on September 5, 2024, for a September 13, 2024 hearing, so was three court days late.  Plaintiff objects to the filing of this untimely opposition but was able to file a timely reply responding to it.  The court had worked the matter up unopposed, and this untimeliness has caused great inconvenience.  The court, nevertheless, due to the filing of the timely reply, reluctantly has considered the untimely opposition.     With respect to these two requests, the opposition fails to explain why the text identified at the deposition as existing and being in defendant’s possession has not been produced to plaintiff in any form.  The moving papers make reference to the dispute concerning the production being sought in native file format, but plaintiff does not by this motion seek that the texts responsive to Requests Nos. 7 and 73 which have already been produced be produced in any particular format, but requests that responsive documents which have never been produced be ordered to be produced.  Plaintiff has failed to justify any refusal to produce responsive materials. The motion accordingly is granted, and defendant is ordered to produce all communications responsive to these requests. Requests Nos. 8, 74 and 75 The requests are as follows: Request No. 8:“Any and all WRITINGS (as defined by Evidence Code §250) RELATED TO any real estate YOU purchased on MR. TARAKJIAN’S behalf during the prior of January 1, 2016 to the present.”   Request No. 74:“Any and all WRITINGS (as defined by Evidence Code §250) RELATED TO the profits paid back to MR. TARAKJIAN during the period of January 1, 2016, through the present.”Request No. 75:“Any and all WRITINGS (as defined by Evidence Code §250) RELATED TO all monies paid back to MR. TARAKJIAN during the period of January 1, 2016, through the present.” Plaintiff argues that this information is crucial to plaintiff’s case and directly relevant to plaintiff’s claims.  Plaintiff indicates that during his deposition, Assali testified that he repaid plaintiff the proceeds from the sale of the Burbank property.  Plaintiff submits deposition testimony in which the deponent states that profit and loss statements were created, and that they were prepared in preparation for taxes, and were prepared before the lawsuit was filed.  [Ex. C, pp. 140-141].   During that exchange, counsel for plaintiff indicated that documents had been produced to plaintiff by former counsel for defendant, but in a non-native format, and requested that they be produced in native format so that the date of creation of the documents could be confirmed.   [Ex. C., p. 140-142].  Counsel for the deponent agreed, stating “Sure,” and requested that if there were any other requests like that counsel for plaintiff send an email.  [Ex. C., p. 142]. Plaintiff in the motion does not appear to seek these documents in native format but appears to seek production of the documents in the first instance.  It is not clear, but the request appears to be that, although profit and loss statements had been produced in response to other discoveries, they now be produced again in response to the deposition notice.  As discussed above, defendant in opposition appears to object to producing documents in native format, as not required under the code, and as not applying to text messages.  The argument that the parties communicated only via text message would have no applicability to the creation of profit and loss statements, which could have been created and stored by electronic means for which a native format would exist.  To the extent the argument is that the code does not require production in a native format, as set forth above, CCP section 2025.450 (c) permits a motion for an order compelling “the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”  (emphasis added).  These requests seek all “writings,” which fairly includes electronically stored information such as native format versions of electronically stored information.  The opposition cites to Evidence Code section 250, which states:““Writing” means handwriting, typewriting, printing, photostating, photographing, photocopying, transmitting by electronic mail or facsimile, and every other means of recording upon any tangible thing, any form of communication or representation, including letters, words, pictures, sounds, or symbols, or combinations thereof, and any record thereby created, regardless of the manner in which the record has been stored.” The court in this circumstance finds that the writings requested include records created in native format versions.  Good cause has in any case been established for the production of such records based on the importance in this action of establishing when the profit and loss statements were created.    The motion accordingly is granted.  The defendant is ordered to produce all responsive material in response to these requests, including electronically stored information in native format.  Documents Pertaining to Assali’s Wealth  The motion concedes that the documents sought with respect to Assali’s wealth, were “not requested by Plaintiff,” but argues that during deposition, Assali was willing to produce information confirming that he had over $1.8 million in his bank account when he met plaintiff.  As set forth above, under CCP section 2025.450(a), a party may move that a deponent “produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice…”  Since the documents sought were not described in the deposition notice, the motion to compel the production of these documents is denied.  The motion is denied without prejudice to plaintiff formally seeking discovery of such documents.    Sanctions Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions for the expense of having to bring this motion.  Under CCP § 2025.450 (g)(1):“If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”CCP § 2023.010 (d) provides that misuse of the discovery process includes, “Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”   CCP § 2023.030(a) authorizes the imposition of monetary sanctions against a party and its attorney for misuse of the discovery process.  Under CRC Rule 3.1348(a): “The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”The burden is on the party subject to sanctions to show substantial justification or injustice.  Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1990, 2nd Dist.) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1436.   Here, the court orders the production for inspection of documents and electronically stored information described in the deposition notice, under CCP § 2025.450 subdivision (a), and the court “shall” impose the requested monetary sanction.  Defendant in the opposition argues that the motion was unnecessary, which is a mystery, as defendant had not offered to produce the discovery and has not done so since.  The motion was clearly necessary to obtain defendant’s compliance with his discovery obligations.  This argument fails to meet defendant’s burden to show substantial justification or injustice.   Sanctions are awarded. The sanctions sought are $2,761.15.  The sanctions are reasonable, and their reasonableness in amount has not been challenged by defendant.  It also appears that plaintiff, by defendant’s conduct, has been forced to work after hours and on shortened notice to prepare a timely reply. The sanctions are awarded in full as requested.  RULING:The Court in its discretion has reluctantly considered the untimely opposition, filed three court days late, only because timely reply papers were filed responding to the opposition.  However, counsel for defendant is cautioned that in the future the Court may refuse to consider papers not filed in compliance with the applicable rules, statutes, and deadlines. Plaintiff Rafi Tarakjian’s Motion to Compel Defendant George Assali’s Further Production of Documents in Response to Deposition Notice is GRANTED in part. Good cause appearing, defendant George Assali is ordered to produce all materials responsive to Requests No. 7, 8, 73, 74 and 75 in the Notice of Taking Deposition of Defendant George Assal; and Request to Produce Documents at Deposition, served on May 14, 2024.  [Ex. A].  Production to be made within thirty days, and to include all electronically stored information available concerning the dates of creation of the writings and communications requested.  Motion to the extend plaintiff requests production of documents pertaining to Assali’s wealth is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE on the ground plaintiff fails to establish that such materials were described in the deposition notice, and not produced. Monetary sanctions requested by moving party: Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $2,761.15 (6.0 hours @ $450/hour) [6 hours requested] plus costs of $61.15 [Amount Requested $2,761.65], which sum is to be awarded in favor of plaintiff Rafi Tarakjian, and against defendant George Assali, payable within 30 days.  CCP §§ 2025.450 (g)(1), 2023.010 (d) and 2023.030 (a). DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCES Please make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 