  Case Number:  21GDCV01289    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:     1 Date:           9/13/2024   Case No: 21 GDCV01289  Trial Date: None Set Case Name: Ando v. Cox, et al. DEMURRER  Moving Party:             Defendant Sean Cox       Responding Party: Plaintiff Kurt Takashi Ando      RELIEF REQUESTED:   Sustain demurrer to Complaint  CAUSES OF ACTION:  from Complaint   1) Breach of Fiduciary Duty  2) Conspiracy  3) Conversion 4) Negligence SUMMARY OF FACTS:The complaint alleges that Ivy Fung, the mother of plaintiff Kurt Takashi Ando, created a Revocable Trust in 2016.   Ivy Fung was the Trustee, with successor Trustees being plaintiff and/or Marie Bernardini.   The Trust was created by Ivy Fung after she was diagnosed with terminal illness, and was revocable until her death, after which the Trust became irrevocable and all Trust property was to be handed over to her only child and next of kin, plaintiff Ado.   Ivy Fung transferred her real property in La Crescenta to the Trust.  The complaint alleges that Marie Bernardini had been named as a successor trustee by connections between Ivy Fung, Bernardini, defendant Chaba Monari and defendant Church of Scientology.  Plaintiff alleges that trust funds were used to pay defendant Monari over $200,000 a year from 2016-2017, and that following the death of Ivy Fung, Marie Bernardini began encumbering the property with loans facilitated by other defendants, used trust funds and loans to pay off her personal obligations, transferred funds to her company defendant Realty Home Solutions, and that following Marie Bernardini’s death, Bernardini’s husband defendant Jim Cox sold the property to a bona fide purchaser.  The trust was depleted of all funds with the exception of $3,000.   The complaint also alleges that defendant Cox removed personal property of Ivy Fung from the property, including expensive jewelry.   The complaint alleges causes of action for breach of fiduciary duty, conspiracy, conversion, and negligence.  The file shows that on October 6, 2022, the court heard an OSC re: Default Judgment/Default Prove Up, at which the court was informed that defendant Jim Cox Sr. was deceased, with decedent’s son, James Cox Jr. being present in court.  The court ordered the OSC discharged and stayed the case “in its entirety, pending the disposition of the probate case.”On September 11, 2023, the court conducted a Status Conference Re: Stay/Probate Case/Status of Successor in Interest, at which Travis Cox, son of decedent, was present in court.  The court ordered the stay previously ordered to remain in full force and effect pending a hearing on a motion substituting Travis Cox as a party defendant in this action in place of defendant Jim Cox, deceased, in his capacity as Personal Representative of the Estate of Jim Cox.On January 26, 2024, the motion was granted, and Travis Cox was substituted as defendant for Jim Cox III.  The matter remained subject to a stay until May 8, 2024, when at a Status Conference the court found that the Probate Court had rejected plaintiff’s creditor’s claim pursuant to Probate Code Section 925 and lifted the stay.    The file shows that on October 30, 2023, plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint, amending the complaint by substituting the true name of Sean Cox for the fictitious name of defendant Doe 1.   ANALYSIS:ProceduralUntimely Opposition Under CCP §1005(b):“All papers opposing a motion…shall be filed with the court and a copy served on each party at least nine court days… before the hearing.”  Under CRC Rule 3.1300(d), “If the court, in its discretion, refuses to consider a late filed paper, the minutes or order must so indicate.”  Here, the opposition was filed and served on September 3, 2024 for a September 13, 2024 hearing date.  Taking into account the Labor Day court holiday, nine court days before the hearing fell on August 30, 2024.  The opposition was accordingly filed one court day late (three calendar days).  This situation has been inconvenient for the court and the courtroom staff, and unfair to the moving parties who have been deprived of that court day within which to file timely reply.  The court, in its discretion, could refuse to consider the untimely opposition.  The court will consider the opposition, but defendant is cautioned that in the future the court may refuse to consider papers not filed in conformity with the statutes, rules and procedures governing this litigation. Substantive Defendant Sean Cox, added to this action by Amendment to Complaint, substituting defendant’s name for Doe 1, brings this motion in reliance on CCP section 430.10, relying specifically on the following provisions of that statute:“The party against whom a complaint ... has been filed may object, by demurrer...to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds:(a) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading….(e) The pleading does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” Defendant argues, evidently pursuant to subdivision (a), that the complaint fails to properly include defendant Sean Cox as a party, as defendant has not been properly served with the amended complaint, as under CCP section 583.210 (a), a defendant must be served within three years after the action is commenced.   The motion relies on CCP § 583.210(a), which provides:“(a) The summons and complaint shall be served upon a defendant within three years after the action is commenced against the defendant. For the purpose of this subdivision, an action is commenced at the time the complaint is filed.”Under CCP § 583.250:“(a) If service is not made in an action within the time prescribed in this article:(1) The action shall not be further prosecuted and no further proceedings shall be held in the action.(2) The action shall be dismissed by the court on its own motion or on motion of any person interested in the action, whether named as a party or not, after notice to the parties.(b) The requirements of this article are mandatory and are not subject to extension, excuse, or exception except as expressly provided by statute.” The complaint in this action was filed on October 14, 2021.   On October 30, 2023, plaintiff filed an Amendment to Complaint, amending the complaint by substituting the true name of Sean Cox for the fictitious name of Doe 1.   Under CCP §474, “When the plaintiff is ignorant of the name of a defendant, he must state that fact in the complaint... and such defendant may be designated in any pleading or proceeding by any name, and when his true name is discovered, the pleading or proceeding must be amended accordingly...”   This statutory procedure effectively extends the statute of limitations until expiration of the time for service of summons, in effect, to three years after the filing of the complaint.    CCP § 583.210(a); Sobeck & Associates, Inc. v. B & R Investments No. 24 (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d 861, 869-870.    Plaintiff has filed a proof of service of summons, showing service of the summons, Complaint for Damages, and Amendment to Complaint on Sean Cox by personal service on July 15, 2024.  This time frame is well within three years of the filing of the action on October 14, 2021.  Even if the service had been beyond the three-year period, it is questionable if a demurrer for lack of jurisdiction over the “subject of the cause of action” would be the proper ground for demurrer, as the statutory scheme appears to require a motion to dismiss.  Moreover, the motion affirmatively acknowledges not only that the service was effected two years and nine months after filing of the action, not more than three years, but also that the matter has been subject to a stay.   Under CCP section 583.240, the time during which an action is stayed is excluded when computing the time within which summons must be served:“In computing the time within which service must be made pursuant to this article, there shall be excluded the time during which any of the following conditions existed:(b) The prosecution of the action or proceeding in the action was stayed and the stay affected service.” As noted above, this action was stayed in its entirety beginning on October 6, 2022, and extending to May 8, 2024.  Accordingly, on top of the service actually clearly falling within the three-year period, there was a significant period when this action was stayed, further excluding time to be counted toward the three-year deadline.  The demurrer on this ground is overruled. Defendant also argues that defendant has not been properly served with the amended complaint.  This argument is somewhat confusing, as there is no amended complaint to be served.  The file shows from the proof of service that the operative complaint in this matter was in fact personally served on defendant.  There is nothing here from the face of the pleading or anything of which this court may take judicial notice that would suggest that service was not effected as represented, so a demurrer on this ground also is improper.   Under CCP § 430.30(a), an objection to a pleading may be taken by a demurrer "[w]hen any ground for objection to a complaint...appears on the face thereof, or from any matter of which the court is required to or may take judicial notice…"  Certainly, a demurrer on the ground the court lacks jurisdiction over the “subject” of a cause of action is not supported by such an argument, even if it were properly before the court, as the argument would go to personal jurisdiction over the moving defendant.  As pointed out in the opposition, any challenge to personal jurisdiction or the sufficiency of service of process to secure that jurisdiction should have been made by a timely motion to quash service of summons, accompanied by an evidentiary showing supporting an argument that this court lacks personal jurisdiction over defendant.  See CCP section 418.10 (“(a) A defendant, on or before the last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more of the following purposes: (1) To quash service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or her.);  Mihlon v. Superior Court (1985, 2nd Dist.) 169 Cal.App.3d 703, 710; Evangelize China Fellowship, Inc. v. Evangelize China Fellowship (1983, 2nd Dist.) 146 Cal.App.3d 440, 444.     To the extent the demurrer “demands” that plaintiff file a motion for leave to amend the complaint to properly include Sean Cox, and then to re-serve defendant with the amended complaint, there is no cognizable legal argument with respect to why the Amendment to Complaint to substitute defendant as a Doe was not properly employed here.   The demurrer on this ground is overruled, and any such “demand” is not properly made or granted on a demurrer. Defendant argues, without specifics, that the complaint fails to state a cause of action against defendant Sean Cox, as defendant is alleged to be a Doe defendant, but the complaint is devoid of any allegations whatsoever that would form a basis of a cause of action against Sean Cox. Plaintiff in opposition argues that the demurrer challenges the utilization of Doe Amendment to bring defendant into the action but does not address specific claims or causes of action to argue how they are insufficiently alleged to support a cause of action of claim against the moving defendant or Doe 1. The demurrer on this basis is not ideal, as defendant does not even attempt to identify specific elements of a cause of action or allegations that are missing from the complaint as to the moving defendant.  However, a review of the complaint shows that the Doe defendants are mentioned only in the general allegations concerning the parties, as agents or employees of the other named defendants.  [Complaint, para. 14].  Although the complaint headings indicate that the first cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty, second cause of action for conspiracy, and third cause of action for conversion is brought against the “Does,” the causes of action themselves mention named defendants and their conduct, without any mention whatsoever of the involvement or nature of the conduct undertaken by any Doe defendants.  Under the circumstances, the court finds it appropriate to sustain the demurrer to these causes of action with leave to amend to supply allegations directed at defendant Sean Cox, as substituted for Doe 1.   The complaint does not in the headings indicate that the fourth cause of action for negligence is directed at Does, only at several other named defendants.  It does not appear that this cause of action is intended to be directed to the moving defendant, so defendant has no standing to challenge this cause of action, and the demurrer to that cause of action is overruled on that ground. RULING:The Court in its discretion has reluctantly considered the untimely opposition to the demurrer, filed one court day late, only eight court days prior to the hearing.  Defendant is cautioned that in the future the Court may refuse to consider pleadings not filed in conformity with the statutes, rules and procedures governing this litigation. Demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND to the first cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty, second cause of action for conspiracy, and third cause of action for conversion on the ground these causes of action appear to be intended to be directed to Doe defendants but include no charging allegations against the Does or against moving defendant Sean Cox.   Demurrer is OVERRULED to the fourth cause of action for negligence, as this cause of action is not expressly alleged against Doe defendants, so that moving defendant, substituted for Doe 1, lacks standing to challenge its sufficiency. Demurrer on all other grounds is OVERRULED.  Ten days leave to amend the first, second, and third causes of action only. The parties are ordered to meet and confer in full compliance with CCP § 430.41 before any further demurrer may be filed.  DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 