 Case Number:  23STCV27589    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DAVID OWEN,
  et al.,  
  
         vs.
 
ASHLAND, INC.,
  et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV27589
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 31, 2024



 
Moving Defendant Safety-Kleen
Systems, Inc.’s unopposed application for an order admitting Daniel R. Strecker
to appear pro hac vice is granted pending receipt of Strecker’s New York State
Bar Number.

 
          Safety-Kleen Systems, Inc. (“Safety-Kleen”) (“Moving
Defendant”) applies unopposed to admit Daniel R. Strecker (“Strecker”) to
appear pro hac vice on its behalf. 
(Notice Pro Hac Vice, pg. 2; CRC, Rule 9.40.) 
 
          Background
On October 17, 2024, Moving
Defendant filed the instant application for Strecker to be admitted pro hac
vice.  As of the date of this hearing no
opposition has been filed.
 
Motion
to be Admitted Pro Hac Vice
C.R.C.,
Rule 9.40(d)
provides that an application to be admitted pro hac vice must state the
following:
(1)   The applicant’s residence and
office address;
(2)   The courts to which the
applicant has been admitted to practice and the dates of admission;
(3)   That the applicant is a
licensee in good standing in those courts; 
(4)   That the applicant is not
currently suspended or disbarred in any court; 
(5)   The title of each court and
cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel¿pro
hac vice¿in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each
application, and whether or not it was granted; and
(6)   The name, address, and
telephone number of the active licensee of the State Bar of California who is
attorney of record.
C.R.C., Rule 9.40(e) provides
as follows, “The State Bar of California may set an appropriate application fee
to be paid by counsel pro hac vice.”
Moving Defendant’s
application on behalf of Strecker provides the information required by C.R.C.,
Rule 9.40(d).  Moving Defendant submitted
proof that the $500.00 fee was paid to the State Bar of California.  (C.R.C., Rule 9.40(e); Decl. of Uchida ¶5,
Exh. A.)  Moving Defendant
submitted proof of service on the State Bar of California via its online portal.  (C.R.C., Rule 9.40(c)(1); see Decl. of
Uchida ¶5, Exh. A.)
Moving Defendant has not provided
this Court with Strecker’s bar number in New York. While this requirement is
not enumerated in C.R.C., Rule 9.40, the Court needs this number to enter Strecker’s
application into the Court’s system.
Accordingly, Moving
Defendants’ unopposed motion for an order admitting Strecker to appear
pro hac vice is granted pending receipt of Strecker’s New York bar number.
Moving Party to
give notice.
 
 
Dated:  October _____, 2024
                                                                             





  