 Case Number:  21STCV47266    Hearing Date:   October 31, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



TYRONE
  MURPHY,  
  
         vs.
 
MR. AND
  MRS. AMELIA SOROTRO, et al.


 Case No.: 
  21STCV47266
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  October 31, 2024



 
Plaintiff
Tyrone Murphy’s unopposed motion for
leave to amend his second amended complaint is denied, without prejudice.
 
Plaintiff Tyrone Murphy (“Murphy”)
(“Plaintiff”) moves unopposed to amend his second amended complaint
(“SAC”).
 
Background
Plaintiff filed his initial Complaint on
December 29, 2021, against Mr. and Mrs. Amelia Sorotro (“Sorortro”) and AAA Car
Insurance. CA (“AAA”) (collectively, “Defendants”).  Plaintiff filed his first amended complaint
(“FAC”) on October 7, 2022.  Plaintiff
filed the operative SAC on November 2, 2022. 
Plaintiff filed an amendment to the SAC on November 7, 2022, correcting
the name of Defendant Sorotro to Mrs. Rosa Sortro (“Sortro”).
On October 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed a letter
with this Court.  As of the date of this
hearing, no opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
“The court may, in furtherance of
justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to amend any pleading
or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any party, or by correcting
a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any other respect; and may,
upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or demurrer. The court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars; and may upon like terms allow an answer to be made after the time
limited by this code.”  (C.C.P. §473(a)(1).) 
“Trial courts are vested with the
discretion to allow amendments to pleadings ‘in furtherance of justice.’ That
trial courts are to liberally permit such amendments, at any stage of the
proceeding, has been established policy in this state since 1901.”  (Hirsa
v. Superior Court (1981) 118 Cal.App.3d 486, 488-489.) 
CRC Rule 3.1321(a) requires that a
motion to amend must: “[i]nclude a copy of the proposed . . . amended pleading
. . . [and] state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be
[deleted and/or added], if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number,
the [deleted and/or additional] allegations are located.” 
CRC Rule 3.1324(b) provides, as
follows: “[a] separate declaration must accompany the motion and must specify:
(1) [t]he effect of the amendment; (2) [w]hy the amendment is necessary and
proper; (3) [w]hen the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and (4) [t]he reasons why the request for amendment was not made
earlier.” 
 
Discussion
Plaintiff’s motion does not substantially
comply with CRC Rule 3.1324(a).  Plaintiff’s motion does not include a copy
of the proposed third amended complaint.  Plaintiff also failed to submit
a declaration setting forth the allegations proposed to be added and deleted,
and where, by page, paragraph, and line number.
Plaintiff’s motion does not substantially
comply with CRC Rule 3.1324(b). 
Plaintiff failed to submit a separate declaration that specifies the
effect of the amendments and explains why the amendments are necessary and
proper.  Plaintiff also failed to submit a declaration that states when
the facts giving rise to substantive amended allegations were discovered and
why the request for amendment was not made earlier.  
Plaintiff is again reminded that CRC, Rule 2.104 requires all documents to be typed,
not handwritten.  Additionally, this
Court cannot accept filings in the format of a letter.  
Plaintiff
is directed to CRC, Rule 2.111 for instructions on the format of the first page
of a filing with this Court.  Rule 2.111
requires the first page to include in the upper lefthand corner the name,
address, telephone number, fax number and e-mail address of the party.  Beneath this information, Plaintiff is
directed to include a case caption as described in Rule 2.111 subsections (3)
to (7).
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
motion for leave to amend his second amended complaint and file a third amended
complaint is denied.  
 
Conclusion
Plaintiff’s unopposed motion for leave
to file a third amended complaint is denied, without prejudice.   
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated: 
October _____, 2024
                                                                             





  