  Case Number:  23TRCV03726    Hearing Date:   October 2, 2024    Dept:  P Plaintiff’s Motion to Quash Subpoena and Request for SanctionsMoving Party: Plaintiff Lindsey MencoResponding Party: Defendant Phillip’s Draperies and Curtains, Inc.RULINGHaving considered the moving papers, opposition, and reply, the court denies Plaintiff’s motion to quash the subpoenas entirely. Both parties’ requests for sanctions are denied.PROCEDURAL BACKGROUNDOn November 9, 2023, Plaintiff Lindsey Menco (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Phillip’s Draperies and Curtains, Inc. (“Phillip’s”); SSV Properties (“SSV”); and DOES 1-30, inclusive alleging causes of action for (1) Strict Products Liability (Manufacturing Defect) ; (2) Strict Products Liability (Design Defect); (3) Strict Products Liability (Failure to Warn); (4) Negligence (Products Liability); (5) Premises Liability; and (6) General Negligence.On December 1, 2023, Plaintiff amended her complaint to substitute the DOE defendants with Mechoshade Systems, LLC (“Mechoshade”) and 2121 Park Place Fee Owner, LLC (“Park”).On August 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion against Phillip’s. Phillip’s filed an opposition on September 18, 2024. Plaintiff filed a reply on September 24, 2024.FACTUAL BACKGROUNDOn November 17, 2021, Plaintiff was struck in the head by a heavy metal valence from a set of window blinds. (Complaint, ¶ 12.) Plaintiff suffered severe injuries, including scalp lacerations; headaches; stuttering; loss of taste and smell; brain fog; delayed emotional processing; emotional distress; nausea; uncontrollable crying; and extreme fatigue. (Motion, p. 3, lines 9-13.)On June 10, 2024, Phillip’s served Plaintiff with a subpoena requesting “All records, including but not limited to, any and all office records, medical records, inpatient and outpatient charts, notes including but not limited to doctor's notes, nurse’s notes, lab notes, pathology reports, and notes made by person(s) involved in tests, test requests, test results, x-rays, radiological reports, CAT scans, MRI films, pathology slides, physical therapy and rehabilitation records, pharmacy records, prescription memoranda pertaining to insurance and fill of prescription drugs, communication records, correspondence, itemized statements of charges, insurance records, billing statements, payments and claims pertaining to the care, treatment, evaluation, and examination of the above-referenced patient.” (Motion, p. 3, lines 16-24.)LEGAL STANDARDWhen a subpoena has been issued requiring the attendance of a witness or the production of documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion “reasonably made” by the party, the witness, or any consumer whose personal records are sought, or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms and conditions as the court may specify. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1; Southern Pac. Co. v. Superior Court (1940) 15 Cal.2d 206.)The court can make an order quashing or modifying a subpoena as necessary to protect a person from “unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1,subd. (a).)For discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement. (Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.) Generally, all unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject matter of the action is discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence at trial or if it appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010; Schnabel v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 711.)The right of privacy of individuals is protected by the California Constitution. (Cal. Const., Art. I, § 1.) In ruling on discovery motions, the Court must balance the privacy claims of the responding party with the requesting party’s need for the information. (Schnabel v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 718-722.)In determining whether the privacy rights outweigh the need for the disclosure, the court employs a balancing test. Constitutional rights are only abridged where there is a compelling public interest. (White v. Davis (1975) 13 Cal.3d 757, 775.) “If the invasion of privacy is serious, then the court must balance the privacy interest at stake against other competing interests, which include the interest of the requesting party, fairness to litigants in conducting the litigation, and the consequences of granting or restricting access to the information.” (Snibbe v. Superior Court (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 184, 194.) The party seeking disclosure must show that the information is directly relevant to the lawsuit, essential to the fair resolution of the lawsuit, and the need for the disclosure outweighs the privacy interests that are involved. (Alch v. Superior Court (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 1412, 1428.) The court may also take into account whether less intrusive means exist to obtain the information. (Life Technologies Corp. v. Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 640, 655-656.)DISCUSSIONMoving Party’s ArgumentsPlaintiff argues the subpoenas are overly broad and invasive of her privacy. Plaintiff requests that the court quash or limit the subpoenas.Opposing Party’s ArgumentsPhillip’s argues that Plaintiff’s pre-existing conditions and litigation-related injuries have many overlapping symptoms, and further discovery is required. Any privacy interest she has in her medical records is outweighed by Phillip’s right to conduct discovery.Reply ArgumentsPhillip’s has the burden of showing that the subpoena is narrowly tailored and the information sought is directly relevant, which it has failed to do.Merits of the MotionA. Scope of the SubpoenasPhillip’s, as the party seeking the disclosure of Plaintiff’s medical records, has the burden of showing that the information sought is directly relevant to the litigation and that the need for this information outweighs Plaintiff’s right to privacy.Here, Phillip’s asserts that Plaintiff has waived her right to privacy in certain medical records because her complaint includes allegations of head injuries, emotional distress, and other symptoms which significantly overlap with those of her pre-existing conditions. In order for Phillip’s to put on a complete defense, it needs access to those records to see which symptoms can be attributed to the instant injury and which were caused by other conditions.The court finds that Phillip’s has sufficiently explained how records of Plaintiff’s (1) head injuries or conditions; (2) dental conditions; (3) shingles; (4) psychological/neurological conditions; and (5) autoimmune conditions are directly relevant to the lawsuit because these conditions often present the same symptoms that Plaintiff attributes to the accident. Plaintiff’s medical records regarding her tumor and kidney infection indicate that she experienced headaches and fatigue after surgery. While the records seem to attribute those symptoms to her family history of autoimmune disorders, not the tumor or kidney infection, the complete records would be necessary to make that determination with certainty. Accordingly, the court finds that these records are relevant to a fair resolution of the lawsuit.B. SanctionsPursuant to Code of Civ. Proc. section 1987.2, subd. a, the Court may award sanctions “if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.”Both Phillip’s and Plaintiff have requested sanctions against the other party. However, the court finds that neither party made a sufficient showing of bad faith. Accordingly, the court will not impose sanctions.CONCLUSIONBased on the foregoing, the court denies Plaintiff’s motion to quash the subpoenas. Phillip’s and Plaintiff’s requests for sanctions are both denied.