  Case Number:  24VECV00571    Hearing Date:   November 22, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




 
Asha Enterprises, LLC,
Plaintiff,
 
       
   v.
 
Wilmington
  Savings Fund Society, FSB, et al.,
Defendants.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
   
  24VECV00571             107




 
 
COURT’S
  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
  
Motion
  to Expunge Lis Pendens 
  
 



 
[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
(1) Grant Motion; (2) Grant
Wilmington’s attorneys’ fees request in the sum of $9,556.50.
                                                

BACKGROUND

 

Factual Background

 
The
following factual background is drawn from the first amended complaint.
 
On
March 15, 2022, Asha Enterprises, LLC (“Plaintiff”) purchased property located
at 4252 Tosca Road, Woodland Hills, CA 91364 (the “Subject Property”). (First
Amended Complaint, “FAC” ¶ 8.) On or about April 6, 2022, Plaintiff borrowed
$846,000.00 from Conventus, LLC. (FAC ¶ 9.) To secure the promissory note,
Plaintiff executed a deed of trust to Servicelink Title Company, as trustee,
for the benefit of Conventus, LLC, the beneficiary. (FAC ¶ 9.) On March 17,
2023, Conventus, LLC assigned the deed of trust to Defendant Wilmington Savings
Fund Society, FSB (“Wilmington”). (FAC ¶¶ 2, 10.) 
 
On
April 1, 2023, the promissory note matured, and Plaintiff, through its manager
and member, Ardeshir Behdinan (“Behdinan”) asked Conventus for an extension of
time to pay back the loan. (FAC ¶¶ 11-12.) 
On May 29, 2023, Wilmington substituted Defendant California TD
Specialists as substitute trustee. (FAC ¶¶ 3, 14.) 
 
On
June 9, 2023, Defendant California TD Specialists executed a notice of default
and election to sell under the deed of trust. (FAC ¶ 15.) A few days later,
Defendant California TD Specialists recorded the notice of default. (FAC ¶ 15.)
On June 20, 2023, Behdinan, on Plaintiff’s behalf, sought another extension of
the loan. (FAC ¶ 16.)
 
On
August 15, 2023, Micelle Guillen of Defendant New York Mortgage Trust, Inc.
(“NYMT”) emailed Plaintiff stating the lender would reinstate the loan and
extend the maturity note to October 1, 2023, if Plaintiff paid $37,755.30 and
executed documentation. (FAC ¶¶ 4, 18.) 
 
On
September 19, 2023, Defendant California TD Specialists recorded a notice of
trustee’s sale which provided notice of an October 11, 2023, trustee’s sale of
the Subject Property. (FAC ¶ 20.) On October 3, 2023, Conventus told Behdinan
the loan was assigned to NYMT. (FAC ¶ 20.) The next day, Guillen told Behdinan
the offer was no longer available, and an expedited payoff demand was ordered.
(FAC ¶ 21.) NYMT’s representatives told Behdinan the sale would be postponed
from October 11, 2023, to October 24, 2023, to allow Plaintiff to close the
sale to a third party and pay off the loan through the sale escrow. (FAC ¶ 22.)
On or about October 11, 2023, Behdinan sent Defendants the settlement statement
on the pending escrow sale. (FAC ¶ 23.)
 
On
October 24, 2023, representatives of California TD Specialists and NYMT told
Behdinan the sale would be postponed to October 31, 2023, so Plaintiff could
close the Subject Property’s sale. (FAC ¶ 24.) However, the trustee’s sale went
forward on October 24, 2023, and Wilmington was the winning bidder with a
$910,057.51 bid. (FAC ¶ 24.) 
 
Behdinan
asked Defendants for the right to redeem the property, but Defendants refused.
(FAC ¶ 25.) Plaintiff alleges that at all times it “was ready, willing and
able to tender the amount of the payoff, and had an investor who had already
tendered funds to Stewart Title for purchase of Property with instructions to
pay all liens, including that of Defendants from such funds” but Defendants “wrongfully
failed and refused to provide the necessary and indispensable information to
escrow or continue the trustee’s sale to October 31, 2024 to allow the escrow
to close despite their representations that they would cooperate.”  (FAC ¶
26.) Plaintiff alleges that “[i]f
the Defendants had not made those representations, Plaintiff would have filed a
voluntary petition for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code
to preserve the Property and permit the sale escrow to close with Bankruptcy
Court approval.” (FAC ¶
26.)
 

Procedural Background

 
On
February 8, 2024, Plaintiff Asha Enterprises, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Wilmington, California TD Specialists, New York
Mortgage Trust, Inc. (“NYMT”), all persons unknown, claiming any legal or
equitable right, title, estate, lien, or interest in the property described in
the complaint adverse to Plaintiff’s claims, or any cloud thereto, and Does 1
through 10 alleging six causes of action for set aside foreclosure sale, quiet
title, cancel trustee’s deed, declaratory and injunctive relief, negligent
misrepresentation, and intentional misrepresentation. 
 
On
April 17, 2024, Defendants Wilmington and NYMT demurred to Plaintiff’s
complaint. On June 12, 2024, this court sustained the demurrer with leave to
amend. (06/12/24 Minute Order p. 6.)
 
On
June 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint against Defendants
Wilmington, California TD Specialists, NYMT, and Does 1 through 10
(“Defendants”), alleging two causes of action for quiet title and cancellation
of trustee’s deed. 
 
On
October 18, 2024, Wilmington filed a motion to expunge lis pendens (the
“Motion”). On November 8, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On November 14,
2024, Wilmington filed a reply.
 

LEGAL STANDARD

 
“[A]
lis pendens is a recorded document giving constructive notice that an action
has been filed affecting title or right to possession of the real property
described in the notice. Its effect is that anyone acquiring an interest in the
property after the action was filed will be bound by the judgment…. Once a lis
pendens is filed, it clouds the title and effectively prevents the property's
transfer until the litigation is resolved or the lis pendens is expunged.” (BGJ
Associates, LLC v. Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 952, 967.)¿ 
¿ 
“At
any time after notice of pendency of action has been recorded, any party, or
any nonparty with an interest in the real property affected thereby, may apply
to the court in which the action is pending to expunge the notice…. Evidence or
declarations may be filed with the motion to expunge the notice. The court may
permit evidence to be received in the form of oral testimony, and may make any
orders it deems just to provide for discovery by any party affected by a motion
to expunge the notice. The claimant shall have the burden of proof under
Sections 405.31 and 405.32.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.30.)¿The court shall order
the expungement if it finds the pleading on which the lis pendens was based
“does not contain a real property claim,” or if it finds the party who filed
the pleading “has not established by a preponderance of the evidence the
probable validity of the real property claim.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§¿405.31,
405.32.) “The party opposing a motion to expunge a lis pendens has the burden
to show that a real property claim has been alleged and has probable validity
based upon a preponderance of the evidence.” (Nunn v. JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A. (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 346, 363.)¿ 
 

THE MOTION, OPPOSITION, AND
     REPLY

 

Wilmington’s Arguments

 
Wilmington
argues Plaintiff cannot establish a probable validity of its causes of action
for the following reasons. First, the email communications show that Conventus
and NYMT offered Plaintiff loan extensions, but Plaintiff did not accept the
offers. (Motion p. 15.) Second, Plaintiff received multiple payoff demands.
(Motion p. 16.) Third, Plaintiff did not forward the payoff demand to the
escrow entity and the purported lender did not tender any funds to escrow.
(Motion p. 16.) Fourth, an oral agreement to postpone a trustee sale is not
enforceable under the Statute of Frauds. (Motion pp. 17-18.) Fifth, the
Estimated Settlement Statement attached to the first amended complaint as
Exhibit 10 contains false buyer/borrower information because the purported
buyer, Ember Holdings, LLC, does not exist. (Motion p. 18.) Finally, Wilmington
argues that Plaintiff cannot overcome the presumption of sale validity because
there was no irregularity in the trustee sale procedure, and the lis pendens is
defective because it was not recorded with this court. (Motion pp. 19-20.)
 
Wilmington
further argues that the lis pendens is defective because it was not filed with
this court. (Motion p. 20.)
 
To
support its Motion, Wilmington submits exhibits and declarations by California
TD Specialists’ Trustee Sale Officer, Janina Hoak, NYMT’s Vice President, David
Pourdavoudi, and Defendants NYMT’s and Wilmington’s counsel, Kathy Shakibi.
(Hoak Declaration ¶ 1; Pourdavoudi Declaration ¶ 1; Shakibi Declaration ¶ 1.) 
 

Plaintiff’s Opposition

 
Plaintiff argues
it has demonstrated the existence and probable validity of its quiet title
cause of action because the first amended complaint details Plaintiff’s title
and its basis, the complaint identifies and addresses the adverse claims
against which Plaintiff is seeking a title determination, and the first amended
complaint contains a detailed description of the property, the specific date as
of which the determination is sought, and a prayer for determination of
Plaintiff’s title. (Opposition pp. 3-4.)
 
Plaintiff also
argues it has demonstrated the existence and probable validity of its
cancellation of trustee’s deed cause of action because the trustee’s sale did
not result in a sale to a bona fide purchaser, it merely reverted to the
assignee of the original note, Defendants engaged in fraudulent and willfully
oppressive conduct by strategically delaying the transmittal of the payment
demand, and Plaintiff was harmed by Defendants’ actions. (Opposition p. 5.)
 
To
support its burden, Plaintiff relies on the allegations in the verified first
amended complaint. (Opposition pp. 4-5.) The only evidence Plaintiff submits
with its opposition is a declaration by Plaintiff’s counsel, Mario Iskander,
discussing the attorneys’ fees in this case. (Iskander Declaration ¶¶ 1, 4-5.) 
 

Wilmington’s Reply

 
Wilmington
argues Plaintiff failed to address its arguments and evidence, Plaintiff did
not commence this action in good faith and for a proper purpose, and the lis
pendens is defective because it was not filed with this court. (Reply pp. 3-9.)
 

DISCUSSION

 

Service

 
“Any notice of pendency of action shall be
void and invalid as to any adverse party or owner of record unless the
requirements of Section 405.22 are met for that party
or owner and a proof of service in the form and content specified in Section 1013a has been recorded with the notice of
pendency of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.23.) Code of Civil Procedure section
405.22 provides that “[i]mmediately
following recordation, a copy of the notice shall also be filed with the court
in which the action is pending.”
 
Plaintiff has
not submitted a copy of the lis pendens with this court. Thus, Plaintiff failed
to comply with Code of Civil Procedure section 405.22.
 

Real Property Claim 

 
A
“‘[r]eal property claim’ means the cause or causes of action in a pleading
which would, if meritorious, affect (a) title to, or the right to possession
of, specific real property or (b) the use of an easement identified in the
pleading, other than an easement obtained pursuant to statute by any regulated
public utility.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.4.)¿“In making [a determination as to
whether a real property claim is being asserted], the court must engage in a
demurrer-like analysis. Rather than analyzing whether the pleading states any
claim at all, as on a general demurrer, the court must undertake the more
limited analysis of whether the pleading states a real property claim. Review
‘involves only a review of the adequacy of the pleading and normally should not
involve evidence from either side, other than possibly that which may be
judicially noticed as on a demurrer.’” (Park 100 Investment Group II, LLC v.
Ryan (2009) 180 Cal.App.4th 795, 808–809, internal citations
omitted.)¿“Therefore, review of an¿expungement¿order under¿section 405.31¿is
limited to whether a real property claim has been properly pled by the
claimant.” (Kirkeby v. Superior Court (2004) 33 Cal.4th 642, 648.) 
 
Plaintiff
seeks quiet title to the Subject Property against Wilmington and other
non-moving defendants and Plaintiff seeks to cancel and vacate the trustee’s
deed issued because of the October 24, 2023, trustee’s sale. (FAC Prayer for
Relief ¶¶ 1, 3.)
 
Plaintiff’s
claims for quiet title and cancellation of a trustee’s deed would, if
meritorious, affect title to or right to possession of the Subject Property.
(FAC Prayer for Relief ¶¶ 2-3.) Thus, Plaintiff’s first amended complaint
alleges a real property claim.
 

Probable Validity of the
     Claim 

 
“The
trial court must order a¿lis¿pendens¿be¿expunged¿if the claimant fails to
establish by a preponderance of the evidence the¿probable¿validity¿of¿the real
property claim. Unlike other motions, nonmoving parties must demonstrate the
existence or¿probable¿validity¿of their real property claims.
Probable¿validity¿’means that it is more likely than not that the claimant will
obtain a judgment against the defendant on the claim.’ Thus, when presented
with a pretrial motion to¿expunge¿a¿lis¿pendens, the court must grant the
motion unless the claimant establishes ‘by a¿preponderance of the evidence¿the¿probable¿validity¿of
the real property claim.’” (De Martini v. Superior Court (2024) 98
Cal.App.5th 1269, 1278–79, internal citations omitted, emphasis original.) “In
contrast to such demurrer-like review of whether the ‘pleading’ states ‘a real
property claim,’ section 405.32 provides an entirely separate ground of attack
in the trial court on a lis pendens notice, an evidentiary hearing on
the probability the proponent will be able to establish a valid
real property claim.” (BGJ Associates, LLC v. Superior Court, supra,
75 Cal.App.4th at 956–57.)¿ 
 
A
complaint alleging a cause of action for quiet title must be verified and
include: (1) a description of the property; (2) plaintiff’s title as to which a
determination is sought and the basis of that title; (3) “[t]he adverse claims
to the title of the plaintiff against which a determination is sought”; (4)
date as of which the determination is sought; and (5) a prayer for
determination of title. (Code Civ. Proc., § 761.020.)
 
The
“elements of an equitable cause of action to set aside a foreclosure sale are:  (1) the trustee or mortgagee caused an
illegal, fraudulent, or willfully oppressive sale of real property pursuant to
a power of sale in a mortgage or deed of trust; (2) the party attacking the
sale (usually but not always the trustor or mortgagor) was prejudiced or
harmed; and (3) in cases where the trustor or mortgagor challenges the sale,
the trustor or mortgagor tendered the amount of the secured indebtedness or was
excused from tendering.” (Lona v. Citibank, N.A. (2011) 202 Cal.App.4th
89, 104.) 
 
Plaintiff
alleges that “[b]etween October 11[,] 2023 and October 24, 2023, . . .
Plaintiff . . . made multiple phone calls to Defendants and sent emails to
facilitate the payoff of the loan through escrow. However, Defendants began to
ignore [its] calls and emails.”  (FAC ¶
23.)
 
Wilmington
submits California TD Specialists’ comment log documenting communications
regarding the loan between October 5, 2023, to October 24, 2023. (Ex. 15; Hoak
Declaration ¶ 8.) The comment log shows that Michelle Guillen at NYMT requested
a payoff on October 12, 2023. (Ex. 15; Hoak Declaration ¶ 11.) And, on October
18, 2023, Guillen requested a reduced payoff in the sum of $905,000, and NYMT
approved the request. (Ex. 15; Hoak Declaration ¶¶ 12-13.) Wilmington also
submits records showing that, on October 19, 2023, Guillen sent Plaintiff the
demand reflecting the reduced amount. (Pourdavoudi Declaration ¶ 30; Ex. 14.)
However, the payoff was not received on October 23, 2024, and “NYMT instructed
to proceed with foreclosure.” (Hoak Declaration ¶ 15.)
 
Wilmington’s
evidence shows that NYMT, through Guillen, were corresponding with Plaintiff
during the period Plaintiff alleges Defendants were ignoring his calls and
emails and that Guillen facilitated and communicated to Plaintiff a lower
payoff during that period. Accordingly, Plaintiff has not shown, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that Defendants ignored Plaintiff and failed to
facilitate the payoff of the loan.
 
Plaintiff
also alleges that Plaintiff “was told by the representatives of [California TD
Specialists] and NYMT on behalf of [Wilmington] that the sale would be
postponed to a date after October 31, 2023 to allow Plaintiff’s sale of the
[Subject] Property to close.” (FAC ¶ 24.) 
 
“The
statute of frauds provides that any agreement pertaining to ‘the sale of real
property, or of an interest therein’ is invalid unless it is memorialized in
writing and signed by the party to be charged.” (Granadino v. Wells Fargo
Bank, N.A. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 411, 415.) “A mortgage or deed of trust
is subject to the statute of frauds” and “[a]n agreement that modifies a
contract subject to the statute of frauds is likewise subject to the statute of
frauds.” (Id. at p. 416.) “A gratuitous oral promise to postpone a sale
of property pursuant to the terms of a trust deed ordinarily would be
unenforceable under [Civil code] section 1698.” (Id.) In Granadino,
the Court held that the trial court did not err by finding the appellants’
claim was barred by the statute of frauds because “the alleged promise that no
foreclosure sale was scheduled is unenforceable absent a signed writing by
Wells Fargo [and i]t is undisputed that no such writing exists.” (Id.)  
 
Plaintiff
does not allege there exists, nor submit, any writing showing Defendants agreed
to postpone the sale until October 31, 2023. (FAC ¶ 24.) 
 
An
exception to the general rule stated above applies when the borrower relies on
a promise to postpone the foreclosure sale if the borrower procures a solvent
buyer. (See Nguyen v. Calhoun (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 428, 450.) However,
even assuming that the exception applies here, Wilmington submits a declaration
by NYMT’s Vice President stating “NYMT’s
business records reflect that no one at NYMT, or on behalf of NYMT, orally
represented to anyone that the trustee sale of October 24, 2023, would be
postponed.” (Pourdavoudi Declaration ¶
34.) And Wilmington submits a declaration by California TD Specialists’ Trustee
Sale Officer stating, “TD’s
Comment Log reflects that no one at TD or on behalf of TD, orally or otherwise,
represented that the trustee sale of October 24, 2023, would be postponed.”
(Hoak Declaration ¶
18.)  
 
This
court finds that Plaintiff’s allegation Plaintiff “was told by the
representatives of [California TD Specialists] and NYMT on behalf of
[Wilmington] that the sale would be postponed to a date after October 31, 2023”
is insufficient to satisfy Plaintiff’s burden. (See FAC ¶ 24.) Accordingly,
Plaintiff has not shown, by a preponderance of the evidence, that Defendants
promised to postpone the sale until October 31, 2023.
 
Finally,
Plaintiff alleges it “was
ready, willing and able to tender the amount of the payoff, and had an investor
who had already tendered funds to Stewart Title for purchase of Property with
instructions to pay all liens, including that of Defendants from such funds”
and the “tender was made to escrow in conjunction with Plaintiff’s calls and
requests to Defendants to send a payoff demand to escrow.” (FAC ¶ 26.) 
 
Wilmington
submits evidence showing its counsel subpoenaed Stewart Title of California’s
escrow file. (Shakibi Declaration ¶ 7.) Wilmington argues the file “does not
include the payoff demand that NYMT had forwarded to [Behdinan] and instructed
[Behdinan] to forward it to escrow[,]” “does not show any funds tendered
to escrow by any party[,]” “does not include the Purchase Agreement that
[Behdinan] had forwarded to NYMT showing a closing date of October 20, 2023[,]”
and “does not show that escrow had progressed much beyond opening.” (Motion p.
17.)
 
This
court finds that Wilmington’s evidence is persuasive and therefore finds that
Plaintiff has not shown,
by a preponderance of the evidence, that it was ready, willing, and able to
tender the amount of the payoff or that its investor tendered funds to Stewart
Title.
 
Thus,
Plaintiff has not established, by a preponderance of the evidence, the probable
validity of its real property claims.
 

 ATTORNEY’S FEES 

 
California
Code of Civil Procedure section 405.38 reads, “[t]he court shall direct that
the party prevailing on any motion under this chapter be awarded the reasonable
attorney's fees and costs of making or opposing the motion unless the court
finds that the other party acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of attorney's fees and costs unjust.” “Substantial
justification is justification that is ‘clearly reasonable because it is
well-grounded in both law and fact.’” (Pollock v. Superior Court of Los
Angeles County (2023) 93 Cal.App.5th 1348, 1359.) 
 
Wilmington
is the prevailing party. Plaintiff has not submitted adequate evidence
establishing, by a preponderance of the evidence,
the¿probable¿validity¿of¿Plaintiff’s real property claims. This court also
finds that Plaintiff has not acted with substantial justification and no other
circumstances make imposing attorneys’ fees in this case unjust.
 
Wilmington
seeks $9,556.50 in attorneys’ fees. (Reply p. 9; Motion p. 20.) This includes
22.2 hours preparing the Motion and 5.5 hours reviewing the opposition,
preparing a reply, preparing for and attending the hearing, and preparing the
proposed order, at $345.00 per hour. (Shakibi Declaration ¶¶ 13-14.)  Counsel’s declaration includes a
comprehensive breakdown of how counsel spent these 22.2 hours.
 
 
Given
the specialized nature of the issues raised by the Motion and Wilmington’s
thorough briefing of facts and law, this court finds that the attorneys’ fees
are reasonable and the rates at which the hours are billed are reasonable. 
 
Thus,
this court grants Wilmington’s attorneys’ fees request in the requested amount
of $9,556.50.
 

CONCLUSION

 
For
the foregoing reasons, this court grants Wilmington’s Motion. This court also
grants Wilmington’s request for attorneys’ fees in the sum of $9,556.50, to be
paid by Plaintiff to Wilmington within thirty (30) days’ notice of this court’s
order.
 
 
 
Dated:             November 22, 2024                                        _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric
Harmon
                                                                                                Judge of the Superior Court