 Case Number:  BC551112    Hearing Date:   May 16, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     May 16, 2024                                     TRIAL DATE:  Disposed
                                                           
CASE:                         Pine Valley, Inc. v. Ajinomoto North America Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 BC551112
 





















 
MOTION
TO SEAL DOCUMENTS RE TERMINATION OF ROYALTY 
BASED
ON REVERSE ENGINEERING OF TRADE SECRET AND FOR 
APPROVAL
OFAN INTEREST-BEARING ESCROW ARRANGEMENT
 
MOTION
(1) TO TERMINATE ROYALTY BASED ON REVERSE 
ENGINEERING
OF TRADE SECRET, OR, (2) IN THE INTERIM, FOR MODIFICATION OF ROYALTY INJUNCTION
TO PERMIT PAYING 
ROYALTIES
INTO AN INTEREST-BEARING ESCROW ACCOUNT 


 
 
I.          BACKGROUND
 
 On July 9, 2014, Plaintiff Pine Valley, Inc. (“Pine
Valley”) filed a Complaint against Defendants, Ajinomoto North America, Inc.,
Ajinomoto Frozen Foods, U.S.A, Inc., and Trader Joe’s Company, alleging causes
of action for (1) breach of written contract, (2) intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage, (3) fraud, (4) negligent misrepresentation, (5)
unfair competition, (6) breach of fiduciary duty, (7) aiding and abetting breach
of fiduciary duty, (8) violation of California Uniform Trade Secrets Act, and
(9) misappropriation of confidential and/or proprietary information.
 
On January 28, 2016, Plaintiff won a jury verdict against
Ajinomoto North America, Inc. and Ajinomoto Frozen Foods, U.S.A, Inc. (“Defendants”).  The
jury found, among other things, that Defendants willfully and maliciously
misappropriated Plaintiff’s trade secret for frozen-chicken fried rice and
frozen-vegetable fried rice (the “Trade Secrets”).  The Court also found
that Defendants should pay a reasonable royalty.  The parties
stipulated to a royalty of 4% of gross sales from the Trade Secrets sold and to
be sold by Defendants starting from January 28, 2016.   
 
On November 10, 2016, the Court found that the royalty
payments were to start on January 28, 2016 and to continue for so long as Defendants
sell the Trade Secrets.  On November 10, 2016, the Court issued an
order, which provided in relevant part, that Defendants would not be required
to pay the royalty when the Trade Secrets cease to exist. 
 
 On February 28, 2017, the Court entered judgment
against Defendants (hereafter, “Judgment Debtors”), which included the royalty
payments (the “Judgment”).  
 
On May 11, 2017, the parties filed appeals.  Pine
Valley (“Pine Valley” or “Judgment Creditor”) appealed from orders denying its
ability to recover punitive damages; Judgment Debtors appealed (1) the verdict
and all of the causes of action (2) the royalty award, and (3) the dismissal
with prejudice of Judgment Debtors’ cross-complaint against Pine Valley. 
 
On April 9, 2019, the Court of Appeal affirmed the Judgment
against Judgment Debtors in all respects to all the causes of action, including
the royalty award, and affirmed the dismissal of Judgment Debtors’
cross-complaint.  The Court of Appeal denied Pine Valley’s right to
pursue punitive damages.  
 
On June 10, 2019, Pine Valley filed an Acknowledgement of
Partial Satisfaction of Judgment in the amount of $7,476,644.28.  Concurrently, the parties executed a signed
stipulation stating, in part, that the Judgment is partially satisfied,
excluding, as relevant here, the ongoing equitable royalty that Judgment
Debtors owe to Judgment Creditor accruing after March 31, 2019.  The stipulation was signed by the Court on
July 25, 2019.
 
In 2020 and 2021, Judgment Debtors filed a motion to terminate
the royalty and Pine Valley filed a motion for the appointment of limited
purpose receiver.  After several
continuances, the motions were concurrently heard on May 5, 2022.  After taking the matters under submission, on
May 20, 2022, the court issued an order denying Judgment Debtors’ motion to
terminate the royalty and granted Pine Valley’s motion to appoint a receiver to
determine whether Judgment Debtors were selling products using or derived from Pine
Valley’s trade secrets.  
 
On June 22, 2022, Judgment Debtors filed a Notice of Appeal
of the court’s May 20, 2022 order denying the motion to terminate the royalty.  The issues raised in the appeal are (1)
whether Pine Valley’s trade secrets are generally known
because they are publicly available on the internet; and (2) whether the
royalty should dissolve because sufficient time has passed since the judgment
(i.e., the “head start” period).  The
appeal is still pending.
 
On February 7, 2023, Peter S. Davis was appointed as the receiver.
 
On March 26, 2024, Judgment Debtors filed the following motions:
 
 
i.                   
Motion (1) to Terminate Royalty
Based on Reverse Engineering of Trade Secret, or, (2) In the Interim, for
Modification of Royalty Injunction to Permit Paying Royalties Into an
Interest-Bearing Escrow Account (“Motion to Terminate Royalty”); and
 
ii.                 
Motion to Seal Documents Re Motion
to Terminate Royalty Based on Reverse Engineering of Trade Secret and for
Approval of an Interest-Bearing Escrow Arrangement (“Motion to Seal”).
 
On May 2, 2024, Pine Valley filed an Opposition to the
Motion to Terminate Royalty.
 
On May 8, 2024, Judgment Debtors filed a Reply.
 
The Motion to Seal is unopposed.
 
The court begins by addressing the Motion to Seal.
 
II.        MOTION TO
SEAL
 
A.   
Discussion 
The Motion to Seal is internally
inconsistent.  On the one hand, Judgment
Debtors seek an order sealing their concurrently filed Motion to Terminate
Royalty and Exhibits 1 and 2 filed conditionally under seal in support of the
Motion to Terminate Royalty.  On the
other hand, Judgment Debtors state their position “that these documents should
not be filed under seal because they do not meet the requirements for sealing
under California Rule of Court 2.550.” 
(Notice of Motion to Seal, p. 1:13-14.) 
Given this inconsistency, the court cannot issue an order sealing the
requested records.
The court further finds a sealing
order is not merited because of procedural defects.  “A party filing a motion, except for a motion
listed in rule 3.1114, must serve and file a supporting memorandum.  The court may construe the absence of a
memorandum as an admission that the motion or special demurrer is not
meritorious and cause for its denial and, in the case of a demurrer, as a
waiver of all grounds not supported.” 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1113(a).) 

Here, Judgment Debtors have not
filed a supporting memorandum advancing any argument or analysis to support the
issuance of a sealing order.  This alone
supports a finding that the motion lacks merit. 
To underscore the point, the notice of motion references California
Rules of Court, rules 2.550 and 2.551. 
These rules govern the procedure for obtaining a sealing order.  As relevant here, Rule 2.550(d) provides that
the court may order that a record be filed under seal if the following is
established:
1.     
There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the
right of public access to the record;  
2.     
The overriding interest supports sealing the record;
3.     
A substantial probability exists that the overriding
interest will be prejudiced if the record is not sealed;
4.     
The proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and
5.     
No less restrictive means exist to achieve the
overriding interest.
Having not filed a supporting
memorandum, the court cannot determine if any of the foregoing elements have
been met to support the sealing of a record. 
B.    
Conclusion
The Motion to Seal is DENIED.
Moving party to give notice.
III.       MOTION TO
TERMINATE ROYALTY
A.   
Judicial Notice
Pine Valley requests judicial
notice of seventeen (17) documents.  The
unopposed request is GRANTED.  (Evid.
Code § 452, subd. (d).)
B.    
Discussion & Legal Standard
Judgment Debtors seek an order
terminating the royalty payment injunction because Pine Valley’s trade secret
has been reverse-engineered.  Thus,
Judgment Debtors contend the trade secret no longer exists to support the
continued royalty payment.
            The court
does not reach the merits of Judgment Debtors’s argument because, as the parties
acknowledge, Judgment Debtors’ appeal of the court’s May 20, 2022 order is still
pending.  “[T]he perfecting of an appeal
stays proceedings in the trial court upon the judgment or order appealed from
or upon the matters embraced therein or affected thereby, including enforcement
of the judgment or order, but the trial court may proceed upon any other matter
embraced in the action and not affected by the judgment or order. (§ 916, subd.
(a).) The purpose of the automatic stay provision of
section 916, subdivision (a) is to protect the appellate court's jurisdiction by
preserving the status quo until the appeal is decided. The [automatic stay]
prevents the trial court from rendering an appeal futile by altering the
appealed judgment or order by conducting other proceedings that may affect it.”  (Varian Med. Sys., Inc. v. Delfino (2005)
35 Cal.4th 180, 189 (cleaned up).) 
“In determining whether a
proceeding is embraced in or affected by the appeal, [the court] must consider
the appeal and its possible outcomes in relation to the proceeding and its
possible results.  Whether a matter is
‘embraced’ in or ‘affected’ by a judgment [or order] within the meaning of
[section 916] depends on whether postjudgment [or postorder] proceedings on the
matter would have any effect on the ‘effectiveness’ of the appeal.”  (Id.) 
“The fact that the postjudgment or postorder proceeding may render the
appeal moot is not, by itself, enough to establish that the proceeding affects
the effectiveness of the appeal and should be stayed under section 916. Rather,
something more is needed. For example, the trial court proceeding must directly
or indirectly seek to “enforce, vacate or modify [the] appealed judgment or
order.”  (Id.)
            Judgment
Debtors argue the court may rule on its Motion to Terminate Royalty because
movants do not seek to enforce, vacate, or modify the court’s May 20, 2022
order.  Defendants further argue that the
May 20, 2022 order does not affect the ruling on this Motion to Terminate
Royalty.  In support, Judgment Debtors draws
the court’s attention to the differences between their first motion to
terminate royalty (the “First Motion”) and the current Motion (the “Second
Motion”).  In the First Motion, Judgment
Debtors sought to terminate the royalty payment by arguing that Pine Valley’s
trade secret was generally known and therefore no longer protectable.  By contrast, in the Second Motion, Judgment
Debtors now seek to terminate the royalty payment because Judgment Debtors[1]
have succeeded in reverse engineering Pine Valley’s trade secret.  Thus, according to the Judgment Debtors, the
grounds for the Second Motion are distinguishable and a ruling on the Second
Motion would not affect the effectiveness of the appeal beyond rendering it
moot.
            The court
agrees that, on the surface, Judgment Debtors’ first and second attempts at
terminating the royalty payment are brought upon different grounds.  However, it is not so clear that the Second
Motion is not affected by the judgment or order.  It is undisputed that Judgment Debtors’
pending appeal of the court’s May 20, 2022 order is directly related to the
continuation of the royalty payment.  At
bottom, the First and Second Motions each concern the Judgment entered in this
case on February 28, 2017, and affirmed on April 9, 2019 by the Court of
Appeal.  Further, the purpose of the
automatic stay provision of section 916, subdivision (a) is to protect the
appellate court's jurisdiction by preserving the status quo until
the appeal is decided. Granting the motion would alter the status quo and would
do so with respect to an issue that is pending on appeal.  “[T]he perfecting of an appeal stays
proceedings in the trial court upon the judgment or order appealed from or upon
the matters embraced therein or affected thereby, including enforcement of the
judgment or order, but the trial court may proceed upon any other
matter embraced in the action and not affected by the judgment or order.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 916, subd. (a), emphasis
added.)  Based on the foregoing, the
court declines to hear the merits of Judgment Debtors’ motion unless and until the
Court of Appeal issues its decision on Judgment Debtors’ pending appeal, or
Judgment Debtors obtain an order from the Court of Appeal lifting the automatic
stay.  
C.    
Conclusion
Judgment Debtors’ Motion to
Terminate Royalty Payment is DENIED without prejudice.
IV.       DISPOSITIONS
            Judgment
Debtors’ Motion to Seal is denied.
            Judgment
Debtors’ Motion to Terminate Royalty Payment is denied without prejudice.
            Moving
parties to give notice, unless waived.  
Dated:   May 16, 2024                                    




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            
 


