 Case Number:  22SMCV00114    Hearing Date:   April 12, 2024    Dept:  I This is two motions to compel brought by plaintiff on March
4, 2024.  Defendant filed an untimely
opposition on April 8, 2024, essentially saying he was very busy and missed the
deadlines but that he has since served responses.  More motions are set for April 19, 2024. The
court also notes that there is a motion for summary judgment brought by the
defense that is set for April 25, 2024.
 
The court is not fully satisfied with the argument that
defendant was too busy to respond to discovery, and the court is especially
dissatisfied with the untimely opposition. 
That said, the court has read the response.
 
The court is inclined to GRANT the motion to compel and
require that verified responses, without objection other than privilege, be
served within 1 court day.  If the
defense believes that the responses already served comply, the defense need not
re-serve.  However, if they do not comply
(and no further responses are served within the time allotted), then the
non-compliance could be deemed a violation of this order.  If no responses to the requests for admission
have been served prior to the hearing, then the motion to deem admitted is
GRANTED.  If there have been responses to
the requests for admission served before today, then this order will still
apply but the requests will not be deemed admitted but the defense is ordered
to serve verified responses without objection within 1 court day but if the
defense believes that the previously served responses comply, they need not be
re-served.  If, however, they do not
comply and further responses are not served within the time allotted, then in a
subsequent motion the failure may be deemed a violation of this order.
 
As to sanctions, plaintiff is entitled to them.  However, plaintiff never called up the
defense and asked about the missing responses, or at least the court has not
seen any declaration to that effect. 
Plaintiff is correct that it is not required that the moving party meet
and confer.  But the court can only award
sanctions that are both reasonable and necessary.  The court believes that had plaintiff called
the defense, responses would have been forthcoming and the motion could have
been avoided.  Therefore, the court will
award sanctions in the amount of $10.00 per motion plus the $60.00 filing
fee.  The sanctions are payable by
defense counsel within 30 days.
 
A quick final word. 
There is a summary judgment motion pending.  The court is concerned that plaintiff will
argue that it cannot oppose the motion properly because the discovery was not
forthcoming.  The court is not sure of
that—it could be that this discovery could not aid plaintiff in an
opposition—and it also might depend on just how full and complete the responses
are that the defense has served.  But
there is a trial coming in six weeks; that does not provide a lot of time for
the court to hash out discovery battles, so if plaintiff has a point that it
was hindered by a lack of discovery responses, it could prejudice the motion.