 Case Number:  22AHCV00334    Hearing Date:   April 25, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      April 25, 2024                         TRIAL DATE: June 11, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         SANDRA CERVANTES
SOTO aka SANDRA SOTO and DORA CERVANTES v. AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO. INC., a
California corporation, and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive. 
 
CASE NO.:                 22AHCV00334
 
 
 
DEMURRER
WITH MOTION TO STRIKE

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant American Honda Motors
Co., Inc.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
Sandra Cervantes Soto
 
SERVICE:                              Filed February 28, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed April 12, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed April 17, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
             Defendant demurrers to Plaintiffs’
third cause of action for fraudulent inducement and moves to strike Plaintiffs’
prayer for punitive damages. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This case arises out of Plaintiffs Sandra
Cervantes Soto and Dora Cervantes’s (“Plaintiffs’) lemon law claim. Plaintiffs
allege that on April 11, 2021, they purchased a new 2020 Honda Pilot (“Subject
Vehicle”). Plaintiffs allege that Defendant American Honda Motors Co., Inc.
(“Defendant”) sold the vehicle while knowing about defects in their Honda
Sensing system and failed to disclose the existence of such defects. 
 
            Plaintiff filed a third amended
complaint on December 28, 2023, alleging three causes of action for (1)
violation of the Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Express Warranty, (2) violation
of the Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty, and (3) Fraudulent
Inducement – Concealment. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Defendant’s
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ third cause of action for fraudulent concealment is
SUSTAINED WITHOUT leave to amend.
 
            Defendant’s
motion to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages is GRANTED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
            Demurrer 
 
A general
demurrer may be taken to a complaint where “[t]he pleading does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action.” (Code of Civ. Proc. § 430.10(e).) A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the
complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747.) In a demurrer proceeding, the
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or by proper judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc. section
430.30(a).)  A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or
other extrinsic matters.  (SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.)  The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing is
whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.  (Hahn v.
Mirda, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.)
 
Additionally, a
special demurrer to a complaint may be brought on the ground the pleading is
uncertain, ambiguous, or unintelligible. Code Civ. Proc section 430.10(f); Beresford Neighborhood Assn. v. City of
San Mateo (1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 1180, 1191.) A demurrer based
on uncertainty is disfavored and will be strictly construed even when the
pleading is uncertain in some respects. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14
Cal.App.4th 612, 616.) A demurrers based on uncertainty are “granted only if
the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably
respond.” (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (2012) 208
Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.) 
 
Motion to Strike
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike a pleading or any part
thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1).)  The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms
it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).)  The court may
also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
California law, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 436, subd. (b).)  An immaterial or irrelevant allegation is one that is
not essential to the statement of a claim or defense; is neither pertinent to
nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense; or a demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the
complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., 431.10, subd. (b).)  The grounds for
moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial
notice.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.)   
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Defendant demurrers to Plaintiffs’ third cause of action for fraudulent
inducement based on concealment. On November 28, 2023, Defendant’s demurrer to
Plaintiffs’ fraudulent inducement cause of action was sustained with leave to
amend.
  
“The elements of fraud, which give
rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Beckwith v. Dahl (2012) 205
Cal.App.4th 1039, 1060, citations omitted.
 
“[F]raud may consist of a
suppression of a material fact in circumstances under which the defendant has a
legal duty of disclosure.” (Hoffman v. 162 North Wolfe LLC (2014)
228 Cal.App.4th 1178, 1186, internal citations omitted.) “[W]here material
facts are known to one party and not to the other, failure to disclose them is
not actionable fraud unless there is some relationship between
the parties which gives rise to a duty to disclose such known facts. A
relationship between the parties is present if there is “some sort of transaction between the parties.” (Id. at
p. 1187.) “Thus, a duty to disclose may arise from the relationship between
seller and buyer, employer and prospective employee, doctor and patient, or
parties entering into any kind of contractual agreement.” (Ibid.)
 
            “There are ‘four circumstances in which nondisclosure or concealment may
constitute actionable fraud: (1) when the defendant is in a fiduciary
relationship with the plaintiff; (2) when the defendant had exclusive knowledge
of material facts not known to the plaintiff; (3) when the defendant actively
conceals a material fact from the plaintiff; and (4) when the defendant makes
partial representations but also suppresses some material facts. [Citation.]’ ”
(LiMandri v. Judkins (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 326, 336.) 
 
            “These
[latter] three circumstances, however, ‘presuppose[ ] the existence of some
other relationship between the plaintiff and defendant in which a duty to
disclose can arise.’ ” (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th
276, 311.) “Such a transaction must necessarily arise from direct dealings
between the plaintiff and the defendant; it cannot arise between the defendant
and the public at large.” (Id. at p. 312.) 
 
            Plaintiffs
allege that Defendant was the only party with knowledge of the defects in the
Subject Vehicle. (TAC ¶ 134.)
Defendant, however, argues that the TAC fails to allege a direct transaction or
relationship to sufficiently allege a duty to disclose. The TAC alleges that the
authorized dealership was Defendant’s agent for the purpose of selling the
Subject Vehicle. (TAC ¶¶ 6, 7, and 9.) 
 
            In Dhital v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 828, 844, the Court held that the plaintiffs’ allegations, which
included allegations that the dealership were agents of the manufacturer, was
sufficient to allege a fraud cause of action. The Court reached that
conclusion, in part, because the defendant had failed to posit a more developed
argument on that issue. However, Dhital is pending review before the
California Supreme Court. California Rules of Court, Rule 81115, subdivision
(e)(1), provides: “Pending review and filing of the Supreme Court's opinion,
unless otherwise ordered by the Supreme Court under (3), a published opinion of
a Court of Appeal in the matter has no binding or precedential effect, and may
be cited for potentially persuasive value only. Any citation to the Court of
Appeal opinion must also note the grant of review and any subsequent action by
the Supreme Court.”
            Plaintiffs cite
no other binding authority for the proposition that their allegations are
sufficient to allege a duty to disclose. Plaintiffs fail to allege that there was
a direct transaction between them and Defendant that could establish a duty to
disclose. Further, Plaintiffs’ allegations lack the required specificity to
allege fraud. 
            “[T]he requirement that ‘[f]raud must be
pleaded with specificity’ applies equally to a cause of action for fraud
and deceit based on concealment.” (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1462, 1472.) “General and conclusory allegations are insufficient.”
(Id. at p. 1469.) 
            Plaintiffs allege that the
electrical system installed in Honda vehicles including Plaintiffs’ subject
vehicle were defective (TAC, ¶¶ 12); Honda knew of the defects (TAC, ¶¶ 31,
53); Honda had exclusive knowledge of the defects but intentionally concealed
that information (TAC, ¶¶ 36-74); Honda intended to deceive Plaintiffs by
concealing the known Sensing Defect (TAC, ¶¶ 137); Plaintiffs would not have
purchased the car if they had known of the defects (TAC, ¶¶ 86, 98, 140-141);
and Plaintiffs suffered damages in the diminished value of the purchase of the
vehicle and various incidental and consequential damages (TAC, ¶¶ 123-124). Plaintiffs’ allegations, however, are conclusory. Plaintiffs’
allegations do not state with specificity how Defendant concealed the
information. Rather, Plaintiffs allege that because Defendant had exclusive
knowledge, it concealed the information. Plaintiffs’ allegations of exclusive knowledge
contain allegations that were seemingly publicly available, such as Defendant’s
recall of certain vehicles and National Transportation Safety Board
investigations and consumer complaints. (TAC, ¶¶ 41, 61, 63, 65, 68, 69, and
71.) Plaintiffs fail to allege concealment with the required specificity.
            Plaintiffs’
allegations are insufficient to state a claim for fraudulent inducement based
on concealment. Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ third cause of action is
sustained.
 
            Motion
to Strike 
 
            Defendant
also move to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages.
 
            Punitive
damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that
the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (a). A plaintiff seeking punitive damages “must include
specific factual allegations showing that defendant's conduct was oppressive,
fraudulent, or malicious to support a claim for punitive damages. [Citation.]
Punitive damages my not be pleaded generally.” (Today’s IV, Inc. v. Los
Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022) 83 Cal.App.5th
1137, 1193.)
 
            Because
Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ fraud claim was sustained, and because
Plaintiffs fail to allege sufficient facts to allege oppression, fraud, or
malice, Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages is unsupported. Defendant’s
motion to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages is granted.
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Defendant’s
demurrer to Plaintiffs’ third cause of action for fraudulent concealment is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
            Defendant’s
motion to strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages is GRANTED.
 
            Moving
Party to give notice. 
 
 
            
Dated:   April 25,
2024                                               ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention
to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org 