 Case Number:  23STCV09982    Hearing Date:   October 25, 2023    Dept:  71  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



KRYSTA JAIME, et al.,  
  
         vs.
 
2018-1 IH BORROWER LP, et al.


 Case No.: 
  23STCV09982
 
 
 
 Hearing
  Date:  October 25, 2023



 
Defendant Dev Air Solutions, Inc.’s demurrer
to Plaintiffs Krysta Jaime and Kaleb Gonzalez’s first amended complaint is sustained
with 20 days leave to amend as to the 3rd cause of action.
 
Defendant
Dev Air Solutions, Inc.’s motion to strike is denied as moot. 
 
Defendant Dev Air Solutions, Inc. (“Dev Air”) (“Defendant”) demurs
to Plaintiffs Krysta
Jamie’s (“Jamie”) and Kaleb Gonzalez’s (“Gonzalez”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
first amended complaint (“FAC”).  (Notice of Demurrer, pgs. 1-2; C.C.P. §§430.10(e),
(f).)  Defendant also moves to strike
portions of the FAC.  (Notice of Demurrer,
pg. 2.)
 
Background
Plaintiffs filed their initial Complaint on May 3, 2023.  On June 23, 2023, Plaintiffs filed the
operative FAC against Dev Air, and non-moving Defendants 2018-1 IH Borrower LP
(“Borrower LP”) and 2018-1 IH Borrower GP LLC (“Borrower LLC”) (collectively,
“Defendants”), alleging six causes of action: (1) breach of implied warranty of
habitability; (2) tortious breach of implied warranty of habitability; (3) negligence;
(4) intentional infliction of emotional distress; (5) private nuisance; and (6)
violation of Business and Professions Code §§17200.
This action arises out of Plaintiffs’ tenancy at real property
located at 14918 Prichard St., La Puente, CA 91744 (“Property”).  (FAC ¶2.) 
Plaintiffs allege on information and belief that the wall furnace heater at the
Property has been leaking excessive amounts of carbon monoxide every time it has
been turned on since the inception of Plaintiffs’ tenancy in September 2021.  (FAC ¶13a.) 

Plaintiffs allege the Gas Company red-tagged the wall furnace
heater for producing excessive carbon monoxide in February 2023.  (FAC ¶13a.) 
Plaintiffs allege Defendants had never properly serviced the wall heater
throughout Plaintiffs’ tenancy.  (FAC ¶13a.)  Plaintiffs allege prior to February 2023,
Borrower LP sent Dev Air on several occasions to work on the wall furnace
heater at the Property as it would constantly turn off.  (FAC ¶13a.)  Plaintiffs allege despite these multiple
visits Dev Air did not properly service the heater and did not address the fact
that there were obvious signs of carbon monoxide exposure as the wall furnace
heater was producing a smothering flame.  (FAC ¶13a.) 
Plaintiffs allege Dev Air would simply come to re-light the pilot light
and did not otherwise service the obvious defects visible in the heater.  (FAC ¶13a.) 
Plaintiffs allege Defendants have refused to maintain the wall heater in
good working order as required by law.  (FAC ¶13a.)  
Plaintiffs allege on information and belief that throughout the
entire duration of their tenancy up to the time that the Gas Company red-tagged
the wall furnace heater, that the property carbon monoxide detector at Property
did not have sufficient batteries to operate the detector.  (FAC ¶13b.) 
Plaintiffs allege it was only after the Gas Company red-tagged the wall
furnace heater that Plaintiffs first learned that the carbon monoxide detector
did not have sufficient batteries to operate. 
(FAC ¶13b.)
On June 29, 2023, Dev Air filed the instant demurrer and motion to
strike.  On October 12, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed their opposition.  On October 18,
2023, Dev Air filed its reply.
 
A.  
Demurrer
Summary of Demurrer
Dev Air demurs on the basis that Plaintiff’s 3rd cause of action
for negligence fails to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action against
it and is uncertain, ambiguous, and unintelligible.  (Demurrer, pg. 2; C.C.P. §§430.10(e), (f).)
 
          Meet and Confer
Before filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring
party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed
the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether
an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in
the demurrer.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a).)  A declaration must be filed with a demurrer
regarding the results of the meet and confer process.  (C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).)
Defendant’s counsel’s declaration states he spoke to Plaintiffs’
counsel on the telephone addressing his client’s basis for demurring to the
initial Complaint and attempted to make telephonic contact with Plaintiffs’
counsel regarding deficiencies in the FAC. 
(Decl. of Teague ¶¶3-4.)  Defendant’s
counsel’s declaration is sufficient under C.C.P. §430.41(a)(3).
 
Legal Standard
“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235
Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A demurrer can be
used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under
attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Insurance Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider
declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted
for the truth of their contents].)  For
purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed
to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of
law.  (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital
District (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)
 
Failure to State a Claim
          Negligence (3rd
COA)
“The elements of a cause of action for negligence are well
established. They are (a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such
legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the
resulting injury.”  (Ladd v. County of
San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917.). “The first element, duty, may be
imposed by law, be assumed by the defendant, or exist by virtue of a special
relationship.” (Doe v. United States Youth Soccer Assn., Inc. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th
1118, 1128.)  In general, “each person
has a duty to use ordinary care and ‘is liable for injuries caused by his
failure to exercise reasonable care in the circumstances. . . .’”   (Id.). “Absent a statutory exception
to this general rule, courts should find an exception to the duty of reasonable
care only where “clearly supported by public policy. [Citations.]”  (Id.)
Under the doctrine of nondelegable duties, a landlord cannot
escape liability for failure to maintain property in a safe condition by
delegating such duty to an independent contractor.  (Srithong v. Total Investment Co.
(1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 721, 726, citing Brown v. George Pepperdine Foundation
(1943) 23 Cal.2d 256, 259-260; see 6 Witkin, Summary of Cal.Law (9th ed.
1988) Torts § 1020, pg. 411.) “The duty which a possessor of land owes to
others to put and maintain it in reasonably safe condition is nondelegable. If
an independent contractor, no matter how carefully selected, is employed to
perform it, the possessor is answerable for harm caused by the negligent
failure of his contractor to put or maintain the buildings and structures in
reasonably safe condition[.]”  (Srithong,
23 Cal.App.4th at pg. 726, quoting Brown, 23 Cal.2d at pg. 260.)
          Plaintiffs allege at
all times referenced herein, Defendants owed a non-delegable and non-waivable duty
to Plaintiffs to operate, manage, and repair the Property consistent with the
terms of the Plaintiffs’ lease, the warranty of habitability implied in all
residential leases, and applicable law. 
(FAC ¶36.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants’
duty of care included the obligation to provide Plaintiff with safe and habitable
housing that complied with all applicable state and local laws, ordinances and
regulations governing the care and maintenance of residential dwellings
including those set forth in Civil Code §§1941 and 1941.1, Health & Safety
Code §17920.3, the California Code of Regulations, the Los Angeles County Code,
local codes and other statutes, regulations, or local ordinances designed and
intended to regulate the operation and management of rental properties.  (FAC ¶37.)
          Plaintiffs allege Defendants
failed to properly operate and manage the Property as required by law.  (FAC ¶38.) 
Plaintiffs allege Defendants have breached their duty of care by failing
to properly repair, operate and maintain the Property with respect to the gas
appliances.  (FAC ¶38.)  Plaintiffs allege Defendants’ breach of the
applicable standard of care forced Plaintiffs to live in an uninhabitable
dwelling with gas leaks and carbon monoxide exposure as well as the lack of
functioning carbon monoxide detectors which harmed Plaintiffs.  (FAC ¶38.) 
Plaintiffs allege Defendants’ violation of applicable statutes,
ordinances and regulations constitutes negligence per se.  (FAC ¶38.)
          Plaintiffs fail to
allege Dev Air owed Plaintiffs a duty by way of Plaintiffs’ landlords’
nondelegable duty to maintain the Property in a reasonably safe condition.  (Srithong, 23 Cal.App.4th at pg. 726.)  Plaintiffs fail to allege Dev Air’s duty to
Plaintiffs arose from a contractual duty or duty other than the nondelegable
duty of their landlords.
          Plaintiffs state that,
if necessary, they can allege additional facts to support their claim for
negligence against Dev Air.  (Opposition,
pg. 5.)
          Accordingly, Dev
Air’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s 3rd cause of action for negligence is sustained
with 20 days leave to amend.
 
Uncertainty
A demurrer for uncertainty will be sustained only where the
complaint is so bad that defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e., he or she
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
counts or claims are directed against him or her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
If the complaint contains enough facts to apprise defendant of the
issues it is being asked to meet, failure to label each cause of action is not
ground for demurrer: “Although inconvenient, annoying and inconsiderate, the
lack of labels . . . does not substantially impair [defendant’s] ability to
understand the complaint.” (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986)
185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 n.2.)
Plaintiffs’ cause of action for negligence is not so uncertain that
Dev Air cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or
what counts or claims are directed against it.
Accordingly, Dev Air’s demurrer on the basis of uncertainty is overruled.
 
Conclusion
Dev Air’s demurrer to Plaintiffs’ FAC is sustained with 20
days leave to amend as to the 3rd cause of action for negligence.
Moving Party to give notice.
 
B.   
Motion to Strike
In light of the Court’s ruling on the demurrer, Dev Air’s motion
to strike is denied as moot.
 
Dated:  October _____, 2023
                                                                             





  