  Case Number:  22STCV15941    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff Sara Simms’s 4 Motions to
Compel Further Discovery Responses
(1
& 2) Requests for Production
Plaintiff
Sara Simms moves to compel defendants Epione Beverly Hills, Inc. and Beverly
Hills Plastic Surgery Associates each to serve further responses to requests
for production, set one, Nos. 1 and 2.  A party propounding requests for production
may move to compel further responses if “[a] statement of compliance with the
demand is incomplete,” “[a] representation of inability to comply is
inadequate, incomplete, or evasive,” or “[a]n objection in the response is
without merit or too general.”  (CCP §
2031.310(a).)
Both these
defendants made meritless objections in response to the requests for
production.  No. 1 demands “Any
and all policies you had in effect from 2018 through May 2020 relating to
prevention of sexual harassment.”  No. 2
demands, “Any and all DOCUMENTS … in
support of your sixth affirmative defense (Avoidable Consequences Doctrine) of
your Answer to First Amended Complaint against Plaintiff’s Sixth and Seventh
Causes of action of her First Amended Complaint.”  
To both requests, each defendant responded only with
the following objections: “Defendant hereby incorporates the preliminary
statement set forth above.  Defendant
objects to this request because it violates the Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate
Claims between Plaintiff and Defendants.  Defendant objects to this request because it
is not reasonably particularized.  Defendant
objects to this request because it is overbroad and burdensome.  Defendant objects to this request because it
seeks documents that are not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence or relevant to the subject matter of this action.”
Defendants
do not justify their objections.  For the
objection that the requests violate the parties’ arbitration agreement, both
requests relate to plaintiff’s causes of action for sexual harassment.  On March 28, the court ruled plaintiff could
withdraw her sixth and seventh causes of action from arbitration pursuant to
the Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act.  These requests for production do not violate
the arbitration agreement.  
The
remaining objections are meritless. 
These requests are reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.  Defendants Epione
Beverly Hills, Inc. and Beverly Hills Plastic Surgery Associates’ objections to
requests for production Nos. 1 and 2 are overruled.
(3
& 4) Special Interrogatories 
Plaintiff
Sara Simms moves to compel defendants Epione Beverly Hills, Inc. and Beverly
Hills Plastic Surgery Associates each to serve further responses to special
interrogatories, set one, Nos. 1-4.  A
party may move to compel further responses to interrogatories when an answer
“is evasive or incomplete” (CCP § 2030.300(a)(1)) or an objection “is without
merit or too general” (id.,
subd. (a)(3)).
These defendants made meritless
objections in response to special interrogatories Nos. 1-4.  No. 1 asks: “Which of the
affirmative defenses of your Answer to First Amended Complaint do you assert against
Plaintiff’s Sixth and Seventh Causes of action of her First Amended Complaint?”  Nos. 2 through 4 ask, “If you assert the
sixth affirmative defense (Avoidable Consequences Doctrine) of your Answer to First
Amended Complaint against Plaintiff’s Sixth and Seventh Causes of action of her
First Amended Complaint,” then (2) state all supporting facts, (3) identify all
supporting witnesses, and (4) identify all supporting documents.  
To
each interrogatory, defendants objected: “Defendant objects to this
interrogatory because it violates the Mutual Agreement to Arbitrate Claims
between Plaintiff and Defendants.  Defendant
objects to this interrogatory because it is vague and ambiguous.  Defendant objects to this interrogatory
because it is unduly overbroad and burdensome.  Defendant objects to this interrogatory
because it seeks information that is neither relevant to the subject matter of
this action nor likely to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.”  
Defendants
do not justify any of their objections. 
All objections are meritless for the same reasons discussed above as to
the requests for production.  Each
interrogatory is reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. 
Defendants
Epione Beverly Hills, Inc. and Beverly Hills Plastic Surgery Associates’
objections to special interrogatories Nos. 1-4 are overruled.
Sanctions
Plaintiff
moves for the following sanctions against each defendant and its counsel of
record, Steven M. Kroll: Epione Beverly Hills, Inc.: $2,340 for special
interrogatories and $1,740 for requests for production; Beverly Hills Plastic
Surgery Associates, $2,100 for special interrogatories and $1,620 for requests
for production.  “Making, without
substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection to discovery” is a misuse of the discovery process subject
to monetary sanctions.  (CCP § 2023.010(e).)
 Defendants made meritless objections to
discovery.  They did not act with
substantial justification.  Sanctions are
just under the circumstances.  
            Plaintiff,
however, did not reasonably incur all expenses claimed for these motions.  Each amount includes attorney fees for 1.3
hours (but 1.4 hours for the motion to compel Epione Beverly Hills, Inc.’s
further responses to special interrogatories) at $600 per hour anticipated for
“reviewing Defendant’s opposition and drafting a reply.”  (Gutierrez Decls., ¶ 15.)  Defendants did not file any opposition.  Plaintiff filed only notices of
non-opposition.  Plaintiff therefore will
reduce the amounts of sanctions by $780 ($840 for Epione Beverly Hills, Inc.’s
further responses to special interrogatories). 

Disposition
Plaintiff
Sara Simms’s motion to compel defendant Epione Beverly Hills, Inc. to further
respond to requests for production, set one, is granted.  Defendant Epione Beverly Hills, Inc. is ordered
to serve further verified responses to plaintiff’s requests for production, Nos.
1 and 2 without objections and with either statements of compliance under Code
of Civil Procedure section 2031.220 or representations of inability to comply
under section 2031.230, within 30 days.  Defendant Epione Beverly Hills, Inc. is ordered to produce all responsive
documents concurrently with its written responses.  
Defendant
Epione Beverly Hills, Inc. and its counsel Steven M. Kroll are ordered
to pay plaintiff $960 in sanctions within 30 days.  Defendant and its counsel are jointly and
severally liable for the sanctions.
Plaintiff
Sara Simms’s motion to compel defendant Epione Beverly Hills, Inc. to further
respond to special interrogatories, set one, is granted.  Defendant Epione Beverly Hills, Inc. is ordered
to serve further verified responses to plaintiff’s special interrogatories, set
one, Nos. 1-4 without objections within 30 days.  
Defendant
Epione Beverly Hills, Inc. and its counsel Steven M. Kroll are ordered
to pay plaintiff $1,500 in sanctions within 30 days.  Defendant and its counsel are jointly and
severally liable for the sanctions.
Plaintiff
Sara Simms’s motion to compel defendant Beverly Hills Plastic Surgery
Associates to further respond to requests for production, set one, is granted.  Defendant Beverly Hills Plastic Surgery
Associates is ordered to serve further verified responses to plaintiff’s
requests for production, Nos. 1 and 2 without objections and with either
statements of compliance under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.220 or
representations of inability to comply under section 2031.230, within 30
days.  Defendant Beverly Hills Plastic Surgery Associates is ordered to produce all responsive
documents concurrently with its written responses.  
Defendant
Beverly Hills Plastic Surgery Associates and its counsel Steven M. Kroll are ordered
to pay plaintiff $840 in sanctions within 30 days.  Defendant and its counsel are jointly and
severally liable for the sanctions.
Plaintiff
Sara Simms’s motion to compel defendant Beverly Hills Plastic Surgery
Associates to further respond to special interrogatories, set one, is granted.  Defendant Beverly Hills Plastic Surgery
Associates is ordered to serve further verified responses to plaintiff’s
special interrogatories, set one, Nos. 1-4 without objections within 30
days.  
Defendant
Beverly Hills Plastic Surgery Associates and its counsel Steven M. Kroll are ordered
to pay plaintiff $1,320 in sanctions within 30 days.  Defendant and its counsel are jointly and
severally liable for the sanctions.