 Case Number:  23STCV00076    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  52 (1) Order to Show Cause Re: Entry of Default Judgment; (2) Order to Show  Cause Re: Sanctions (1) OSC Re: Default Judgment             Plaintiff  Salvador Lopez, Jr. requests court judgment by default against defendant  Advance Pipe Bending, a business entity form unknown.  Plaintiff’s application for default judgment  is defective. Plaintiff  no longer requests default judgment against defendant Mitchell McCray.  Plaintiff did not, however, request to  dismiss McCray from the action.  An application for default judgment requires “[a]  dismissal of all parties against whom judgment is not sought or an application  for separate judgment against specified parties under Code of Civil Procedure  section 579, supported by a showing of grounds for each judgment.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1800(a)(7).)  The  request for default judgment is also defective because a substantial portion of plaintiff’s damages arise from a physical injury  incurred in the scope of employment.  The  superior court does not have jurisdiction over claims covered by the Workers’  Compensation Act.  (Hughes v. Western MacArthur Co. (1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 951,  957.)  That act “provides the exclusive  remedy for an injury sustained by an employee in the course and scope of  employment.”  (Shirvanyan v. Los  Angeles Community College District (2020) 59 Cal.App.5th 82, 105.)  In addition to the physical injury itself,  the rule “encompasses injury  ‘collateral to or derivative of a compensable workplace injury’ [citation],  such as emotional distress stemming from the experience of a physical injury at  work.”  (Ibid.)  In a civil action, injured employees cannot  recover damages for emotional distress suffered “because” a body part “was  injured, or because” their “injury was painful, or because” their “injury  prevented [them] from working.”  (Id.  at pp. 105-106.)  They can, however,  recover damages for emotional distress suffered “on account of the way the  [employer] treated [them] because of” their physical “limitations.”  (Id. at p. 106.) Here, plaintiff seeks  recovery for “physical pain” and for emotional distress caused by the  injury.  His declaration in support of  this application totals his damages, including: “Physical Pain: 244 days x $50  = $12,200.00” (Lopez Decl., ¶ 9.a) and “Physical Impairment: 244 days  (soreness) x $50 = $12,200.00” (id., ¶ 9.d).  He further states: “This  accident also caused additional stress in my marriage.”  (Id., ¶ 16.)  “I lost sleep because of the pain and was very  agitated and was in [a] bad mood.”  (Id.,  ¶ 17.)  “The lasting effects of the  injury… have caused me to experience pain.”   (Id., ¶ 18.)  Workers’  compensation is the exclusive remedy for such injuries. Aside from the rule of workers’ compensation  exclusivity, plaintiff cannot recover such damages because he has not alleged a  cause of action for damages based on personal injury.  Plaintiff’s first amended complaint alleges  causes of action for FEHA violations, unlawful termination, and whistleblower  retaliation.  Such violations did not  cause his hand injury or the emotional distress deriving from the injury.             Plaintiff’s papers purport to address this problem by  repeating the same text restating assorted rules of law about workers’  compensation.  (Lopez Decl., ¶¶  11-14.)  But plaintiff’s papers do not  explain any basis for which plaintiff can recover these damages.  For example, plaintiff quotes Labor Code  section 3852, which provides, “The claim of an employee … for compensation does  not affect his or her claim or right of action for all damages proximately  resulting from the injury or death against any person other than the employer.”  (Lopez Decl., ¶ 12.)  This action is not a claim against any person  other than the employer.  Plaintiff is  suing his employer, Advanced Pipe Bending, for violations of employment law.  Plaintiff presents no grounds for recovering  damages for a physical injury suffered at the workplace via this civil action  against his employer. (2) OSC Re: Sanctions             On July 11, 2024, the  court ordered plaintiff to show cause why he should not pay $100 in sanctions  under California Rules of Court, rule 3.110(h).   That rule provides, “When a default is entered, the party who requested the entry of default  must obtain a default judgment against the defaulting party within 45 days  after the default was entered, unless the court has granted an extension of  time.  The court may issue an order to  show cause why sanctions should not be imposed if that party fails to obtain  entry of judgment against a defaulting party or to request an extension of time  to apply for a default judgment within that time.”             The  clerk entered the defaults of defendants Advance Pipe Bending and Mitchell  McCray on March 19, 2024.  More than 45  days have passed.  Initially, plaintiff  did not timely request entry of default judgment.  Now, plaintiff has done so, but he also filed  a nearly identical declaration and summary of the case as last time.  Plaintiff changed the dates and removed some  references to defendant McCray.  The  court previously explained why plaintiff’s application was defective based on  the workers’ compensation exclusivity rule.   There was no reason to file the same inadequate supporting papers  again.  The court will exercise its  discretion to order plaintiff to pay the court $100 in sanctions. Disposition             Plaintiff’s  request for court judgment by default is denied.  The  court hereby continues the order to show cause re: entry of default  judgment to January 30, 2025, at 8:30 a.m.   Plaintiff shall file a complete default judgment application including  all documents listed in California Rules of Court, rule 3.1800(a), no later  than January 20, 2025.             The court hereby orders plaintiff to pay the court $100 in sanctions under  California Rules of Court, rule 3.110(h), within 30 days.