 Case Number:  23STCV03998    Hearing Date:   September 5, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   September
5, 2024                                          
 
CASE NAME:           Steve
Hea Chung v. Danny Joseph Chahayed, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV03998

 
DEMURRER
TO FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT WITH MOTION TO STRIKE
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendants
Danny Joseph Chahayed and Simi Quick Lube & Oil
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Steve Hea Chung
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      Demurrer
by Defendant Danny Joseph Chahayed to the First, Second, Sixth, Seventh,
Eighth, and Tenth Causes of Action in the First Amended Complaint for failure
to state sufficient facts constituting a cause of action and for uncertainty;
2.      Demurrer
by Defendant Simi Quick Lube & Oil to the Seventh, Eighth, and Tenth Causes
of Action in the First Amended Complaint for failure to state sufficient facts
constituting a cause of action and for uncertainty;
3.      Motion
to Strike various portions of the First Amended Complaint pertaining to
punitive damages, irrelevant or false allegations, and litigation privilege. 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Demurrer
is SUSTAINED as to the eighth [and second] causes of action and OVERRULED as to
the first, [second], sixth, seventh, and tenth causes of action as to Defendant
Chahayed;
2.      Demurrer
is SUSTAINED in its entirety as to Defendant Simi Quick Lube & Oil;
3.      Motion
to Strike is GRANTED in part. The court ORDERS Prayer item D stricken from the
FAC. Otherwise, the Motion to Strike is DENIED.
4.      Plaintiff
is GRANTED leave to amend.
5.      Plaintiff
is to file a Second Amended Complaint within 20 days of notice of this ruling.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On February 2, 2023, Plaintiff Steven Hea Chung
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Danny Joseph Chahayed and
Busy Man LA Ave., LLC (“Defendants.”) The complaint alleged three causes of
action: (1) Contractual Fraud, (2) Breach of Contract – Purchasing Agreement,
and (3) Breach of Contract – Lease Termination Agreement. The complaint alleges
that Plaintiff and Defendant entered a purchase agreement, which was through an
Escrow that indicated the initial deposit was to be $5,000 of the $75,000
selling price. However, Plaintiff alleges that the escrow was intentionally not
closed on time. 
 
On March 30, 2023, Defendant Busy Man, LA Ave, LLC, filed
an Answer.  
 
On September 5, 2023, the court GRANTED Defendant
Chahayed’s unopposed Motion to Quash Service of Summons. 
 
On September 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed Proof of Personal
Service as to Defendant Chahayed. 
 
On April 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First
Amended Complaint (FAC) against Defendants Danny Joseph Chahayed, individually
and dba Simi Quick Lube & Oil; Simi Quick Lube & Oil; IDS Real Estate
Group; Darrin Nickerson; and Busy Man LA Ave, LLC with ten causes of action
for: (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing, (3) Intentional Interference with Contract, (4) Intentional
Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage, (5) Negligent Interference
with Prospective Economic Advantage, (6) Civil Conspiracy, (7) Aid and
Abetting, (8) Unfair Competition, (9) Conversion, and (10) Fraud.
 
On May 30, 2024, Defendant Busy Man LA Ave, LLC filed an
Answer.
 
On June 5, 2024, Defendants Danny Joseph Chahayed and Simi
Quick Lube & Oil (Moving Parties) filed the instant Demurrer with Motion to
Strike.
 
On July 9, 2024, Defendant IDS Real Estate Group filed an
Answer.
 
On August 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition to the
Demurrer and Motion to Strike. Replies were due on or before August 28, 2024. As
of August 30, 2024, the court has not received reply briefs.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Meet and Confer¿ 
¿¿ 
Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required
to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.
§430.41, and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and confer
obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.
§430.41(a)(2) & (3). ¿The meet and confer requirement also applies to
motions to strike. (CCP § 435.5.)¿Here, the parties met and conferred via
telephone on May 22, 2024. (Sarkissian Decl. ¶¶4-5.) Thus, this requirement is
met.
 
Demurrer¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint
states a cause of action.¿(Hahn v. Mirda¿(2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context.¿In a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿“A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the
evidence or other extrinsic matters. …. The only issue involved in a demurrer
hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous
matters, states a cause of action.”¿(Hahn¿147
Cal.App.4th at 747.)¿¿ 
¿ 
When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations
liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true. (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center
(2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.) Courts also consider exhibits attached to
the complaint and incorporated by reference. (See Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94 (Frantz).)¿ 
 
Motion to Strike¿ 
¿ 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (CCP § 436(a).) The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Id.¿§¿437.)¿“When the defect which
justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave
to amend.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman¿(1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.)¿¿ 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Demurrer
 
Statute of Frauds
 
As an initial matter, Moving Parties contend that
Plaintiff’s claim is barred by the statute of frauds. (Civ. Code § 1624.) However,
as alleged in the FAC, Plaintiff and Defendant Chahayed executed an oral
contract for the sale of his business. Not only is this outside the statute of
frauds but the parties subsequently memorialized this oral contract in writing
with the Escrow Instructions attached as Exhibit 1 to the FAC. Indeed, Moving
Parties acknowledge the Escrow Instructions.
 
Accordingly, the court finds that the statute of frauds does
not apply.[1]
 
First Cause of
Action – Breach of Contract
 
Moving Parties contend that this claim fails because there
was no contract.[2]
Plaintiff argues that he sufficiently alleged an oral contract.
 
“To establish a cause of action for breach of contract, the
plaintiff must plead and prove (1) the existence of the contract, (2) the
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s
breach, and (4) resulting damages to the plaintiff. [Citation.]” (Maxwell v. Dolezal (2014) 231
Cal.App.4th 93, 97-98.) “A written contract may be pleaded either by its terms
– set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract attached to the
complaint and incorporated therein by reference – or by its legal effect.
[Citation.] In order to plead a contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must
‘allege the substance of its relevant terms.’” (Heritage Pacific Financial, LLC v. Monroy (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th
972, 993.)  
 
Upon reviewing the FAC, Plaintiff sufficiently alleged a
claim for breach of contract against Defendant Chahayed.[3]
First, needed to allege the existence of a contract, including: parties capable
of contracting, consent, lawful object, and consideration. (Civ. Code § 1550.)
Plaintiff did so by Plaintiff alleging an oral contract between himself and
Defendant Chahayed for the purchase of his business (Simi Oil) for $75,000.
(FAC ¶ 30; see also FAC, Exhibit 1.) Second, Plaintiff alleges he fully
performed by obtaining a new lease from Defendant BM which was the only
contingency of the oral contract. (FAC ¶ 31.) Third, Plaintiff sufficiently
alleged Defendant Chahayed breached the contract by refusing to sign the new
lease, filing an FBN Statement prematurely identifying himself as owner of Simi
Oil, and refusing to pay the $75,000.00 to acquire Simi Oil. (FAC ¶ 32.) Fourth,
Plaintiff alleges damages by the breach because Defendant Chahayed allegedly
stole Chung’s business from him without paying.[4]
(FAC ¶¶ 32, 33.) 
 
Accordingly, the court OVERRULES Moving Parties’ demurrer
to the first cause of action.
 
Second Cause of
Action – Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Failr Dealing
 
The arguments are virtually the same as above.[5]
 
The elements of a claim for breach of implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing are: (1) a contractual relationship; (2) plaintiff
fulfilled their contractual obligations; (3) any conditions precedent to
defendant’s performance occurred; (4) defendant unfairly interfered with
plaintiff’s right to receive the benefits of the contract; and (5) plaintiff
was harmed by defendant’s conduct. (Waller
v. Truck Ins. Exchange, Inc. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 1, 36.)  
 
Every contract contains an implied covenant of good faith and
fair dealing that neither party will do anything to interfere with the other
party’s right to receive the benefits of the agreement. (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990)
222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1393.) It is an “implied-in-law”
contractual term whose breach “will always result in a breach of the contract.”
(Id. at 1393-1394.) To assert a
claim, a plaintiff must show that the defendant’s conduct “demonstrates a
failure or refusal to discharge contractual responsibilities . . . by a
conscious and deliberate act, which unfairly frustrates the agreed common
purposes and disappoints the reasonable expectations of the other party . . .
.” (Id. at p. 1395.) The conduct may
also be a breach of
a consensual contract term. (Id.) “If
there exists a contractual relationship between the parties, . . .  the implied covenant is limited to assuring
compliance with the express terms of the contract . . . .” (Racine & Laramie, Ltd. v. Department of
Parks & Recreation (1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1026, 1032.)
 
Upon
reviewing the FAC, Plaintiff have insufficiently alleged a claim for breach of
the covenant of good faith and fair dealing. First, as noted above, Plaintiff
sufficiently alleged a contractual relationship with Defendant Chahayed. (FAC ¶
30.) Second, Plaintiff alleges he performed his obligations. (FAC ¶¶ 31, 36.) Plaintiff’s
obtaining the new lease was also the condition precedent to Defendant
Chahayed’s performance. (FAC ¶ 31.) Third, Plaintiff alleges Defendant Chahayed
unfairly interfered by refusing to sign the new lease that Plaintiff obtained
for him. (FAC ¶ 37.) As noted in Careau
& Co., refusing to sign the lease as alleged here is a “conscious and
deliberate act” not to discharge his contractual duties. Fourth, Plaintiff
alleges harm from this conduct. (FAC ¶ 38.) 
 
However,
Plaintiff failed to allege a “special relationship” with Defendant Chahayed
that warrants a tort claim. (Careao &
Co., supra,at p. 1395-1401 [discussing evolution of tortious
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing outside of the
insurance context and ultimate arrival are requirement for “special
relationship” based on several factors.]) Here, as in Careao & Co., Plaintiff and Defendant Chahayed allegedly
entered into an oral contract and Plaintiff has not alleged any “indicia of
unequal bargaining here, no adhesive agreements, no indication that one party
had any particular advantage over the other.” (Careao & Co., supra, 222 Cal.App.3d at 1400.) There are no
facts that “ordinary contract damages” would not be adequate to make Plaintiff
whole. (Id.) The court is not
convinced that Plaintiff can do so.
 
Accordingly, the court SUSTAINS Moving Parties’ demurrer
to the second cause of action.
 
Sixth Cause of
Action – Civil Conspiracy
 
Moving Parties contend that Plaintiff insufficiently alleged
this claim. Plaintiff argues he did because it relates to the third and fourth
causes of action against the Landlord Defendants’ interference with contract
and interference with prospective economic advantage.
 
“The elements of an action for civil conspiracy are (1)
formation and operation of the conspiracy and (2) damage resulting to plaintiff
(3) from a wrongful act done in furtherance of the common design.” (Prakashpalan v. Engstrom, Lipscomb &
Lack (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1136.)
“There is no separate tort of civil conspiracy and no action for conspiracy to
commit a tort unless the underlying tort is committed and damage results
therefrom.” (Id.) If that act is
committed, then “each member may be held responsible as a joint tortfeasor,
regardless of whether or not he directly participated in the act.” (Richard B. LeVine, Inc. v. Higashi
(2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 566, 574.)
 
First, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Nickerson “persuaded
CHAHAYED not to sign the New Lease until CHUNG had been evicted from SIMI OIL”
and that each Defendants knew about Plaintiff’s contract for the sale of Simi
Oil to Defendant Chahayed. (FAC ¶¶ 1, 2, 15, 18, 23, 24, 25, 42, 43, 47, 48.) Second,
Plaintiff alleges that the Defendants agreed to interfere with this contract.
(FAC ¶ 23, 24, 25, 59.) Third, Plaintiff alleges damages from the wrongful act.[6]
(FAC ¶ 60.) To the extent that Moving Parties seek additional facts supporting
this claim, they are still to be determined through discovery. (See Committee on Children’s Television, Inc. v. General Foods Corp.
(1983) 35 Cal.3d 197, 216 [less specificity required when it appears from the
nature of the allegations that the defendant must necessarily possess full
information concerning the facts of the controversy.]) 
 
Accordingly,
the court OVERRULES Moving Parties’ demurrer to the Sixth Cause of Action.
 
Seventh Cause of
Action – Aid and Abetting
 
The arguments here are essentially the same as for the sixth
cause of action.
 
For liability under a theory of aiding and abetting,
Plaintiff must show that the person “(a) knows the other's conduct constitutes
a breach of duty and gives substantial assistance or encouragement to the other
to so act or (b) gives substantial assistance to the other in accomplishing a
tortious result and the person's own conduct, separately considered,
constitutes a breach of duty to the third person.’ ” (Richard B. LeVine, supra, 131 Cal.App.4th at p. 574.) As with civil
conspiracy, there must be an underlying wrongful act. (Id. at 575.)
 
The analysis here is unchanged in this cause of action as
for the sixth cause of action for Defendant Chahayed. However, Plaintiff has
not alleged facts implicated Defendant Simi Oil.
 
Accordingly, the court OVERRULES Moving Parties’ demurrer
to the seventh cause of action as to Defendant Chahayed and SUSTAINS the
demurrer as to Defendant Simi Oil.
 
Eighth Cause of
Action – Unfair Competition
 
Moving Parties contend that Plaintiff did not allege what
unfair competition took place. Plaintiff did not address this in his
opposition.[7]
 
Unfair competition is any unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent
business practices or act and unfair, deceptive, untrue, or misleading
advertising. (Bus. & Prof. Code § 17200.)¿ A plaintiff needs to identify
statutory, regulatory, or decisional law that the defendant has violated.¿ (Bernardo v. Planned Parenthood Federation of
America (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 322, 352.)¿Unfair competition “borrows”
violations of other laws and authorizes a separate action pursuant to unfair
competition. (See Farmers Ins. Exch. v.
Superior Court (1992) 2 Cal.4th 377, 383.) Unfair conduct in unfair
competition actions must be violative of public policy and “tethered to
specific constitutional, statutory, or regulatory provisions.”¿ (Scripps Clinic v. Superior Court (2003)
108 Cal.App.4th 917, 940.) As a statutory cause of action, allegations of
unfair business practices must state with reasonable particularity the facts
supporting the statutory elements of the violation. (Khoury v. Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612,
619.) The statutory violations must be specifically delineated and said
violations must relate to a business activity.¿ (Ibid.)¿
 
Upon reviewing the FAC, the court agrees that Plaintiff
insufficiently alleged a claim for unfair competition. The court does not see factual allegations supporting this
cause of action with reasonable particularity, if at all.[8]
 
Accordingly,
the court SUSTAINS Moving Parties’ demurrer to the eighth cause of action.
 
Tenth Cause of
Action – Fraud
 
Moving Parties contend Plaintiff failed to sufficiently
allege this claim.[9]
Plaintiff argues he did.
 
The elements of fraud are: “(a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay
v. Cobert (2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 184.) “The particularity demands that
a plaintiff plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by what means
the representations were tendered.” (Cansino
v. Bank of America (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469; Perlas v. GMAC Mort., LLC (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 429, 434
[requiring plaintiffs who claim fraud against a corporation to allege the names
of the persons who made the misrepresentations, their authority to speak for
the corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was
said or written.]) Fraud allegations need not be liberally construed, general
pleading of the legal conclusion of fraud is insufficient, and every element of
the cause of action for fraud must be alleged fully, factually and
specifically. (Wilhelm v. Pray, Price,
Williams & Russell (1986) 186 Cal. App. 3d 1324, 1331.)¿ 
 
Upon
reviewing the FAC, Plaintiff sufficiently alleged a claim for fraud against
Defendant Chahayed.[10] First, Plaintiff
identifies the alleged misrepresentations. (FAC ¶¶ 76a, 76b, 76d.) Second,
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Chahayed knew these representations were false
and that he never intended to pay $75,000.00 to Plaintiff for Simi Oil. (FAC ¶¶
77, 77a, 77b.) Third, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Chahayed intended for
Plaintiff to rely on the representations. (FAC ¶ 79.) Fourth, Plaintiff alleges
that he reasonably believed Defendant Chahayed. (FAC ¶ 80.) Fifth, Plaintiff
alleges resulting damages of $100,000.[11] (FAC ¶¶ 81, 82.) However,
there are no factual allegations as to Defendant Simi Oil. 
 
Accordingly, the court OVERRULES Moving Parties’ demurrer
to the tenth cause of action as to Defendant Chahayed and SUSTAINS the demurrer
as to Defendant Simi Oil.
 
Motion to Strike
 
Punitive Damages
 
Moving Parties request the court to strike the following
language from the FAC:
 
Punitive Damages
Allegations:
1.      Paragraph
39: “In doing the things herein alleged, CHAHAYED acted willfully,
oppressively, fraudulently and maliciously, and with a conscious disregard of
the rights of CHUNG and, accordingly, CHUNG is entitled to recovery of punitive
damages in an amount to be determined by the trier of fact.”
2.      Paragraphs
59-61: “On information and belief, ALL DEFENDANTS knowingly and willingly
conspired and agreed among themselves to tortously interfere with Oral Contract
to which CHUNG was a party, to interfere with CHUNG’s prospective economic
advantage. As a direct and proximate result, CHUNG has suffered damages in a
sum to be proven at trial. In conspiring to engage in the tortious conduct
described above, ALL DEFENDANTS acted with malice and oppression warranting the
award of punitive damages and exemplary damages in an amount to be proven at
trial.”
3.      Paragraphs
63-64: “Each of the ALL DEFENDANTS at all times owed a duty to CHUNG to refrain
from interfering with CHUNG’s Oral Contract and prospective economic advantage.
Each of the ALL DEFENDANTS provided substantial assistance or encouragement to
one or more other DEFENDANT in breaching their duties to CHUNG, which was a
substantial factor in causing CHUNG to suffer damages in an amount to be proven
at trial. In Intentionally aiding and abetting other Defendants in committing
the breaches of their duty alleged above, ALL DEFENDANTS acted with malice and
oppression warranting the award of punitive damages and exemplary damages in an
amount to be proven at trial.”
4.      Paragraphs
66-68: “ALL DEFENDANTS’ acts offended established public policy and were
immoral, unethical, oppressive, unscrupulous and substantially injurious to
CHUNG and consumers. ALL DEFENDANTS engaged in unfair business practices whose
harm to CHUNG outweighs any possible benefits. ALL DEFENDANTS’ acts constituted
unlawful, unfair, and fraudulent business practices in violation of California
Business and Professions Code §§ 17200 through 17208. ALL DEFENDANTS’ unlawful,
unfair, and fraudulent business practices have caused great and irreparable
injury to CHUNG and his reputation and CHUNG continues to suffer monetary
damages and injury to his reputation and goodwill by reason of such unfair
competition.”
5.      Paragraph
77 (77a-b): “The above representations by NICKERSON and CHAHAYED were false.
The true facts were: 77a. CHAHAYED never intended to pay $75,000.00 to CHUNG
for SIMI OIL. He intended to pay nothing for Simi Oil. Indeed, he criminally
filed the FBN Statement even before the Escrow opened, registering and
publishing the FBN Statement he was the owner of Simi Oil when he was not. He
planned to steal SIMI OIL by conspiring with NICKERSON to lead on CHUNG until
Chung’s lease expired on November 30, 2022. And after CHUNG was evicted, he
planned to sign New Lease for SIMI OIL without having to pay $75,000.00 to
CHUNG. 77b. CHAHAYED never intended to sign the New Lease issued in his name
for SIMI OIL. HE never intended to close the Escrow.”
6.      Paragraphs
81-83: “CHUNG was harmed of at least $100,000.00; and CHUNG’s reliance on
NICKERSON and CHAHAYED’s representation was a substantial factor in causing his
harm. NICKERSON and CHAHAYED acted with malice and oppression warranting the
award of punitive damages and exemplary damages in an amount to be proven at
trial.”
7.      Prayer
item C: “punitive damages.”
Moving Parties contend that Plaintiff insufficiently alleged
a claim for punitive damages. Plaintiff did not file an opposition. 
 
To obtain punitive damages, a plaintiff must plead sufficient
facts in support of punitive damages.¿ (See¿Hilliard
v. A.H. Robins Co.¿(1983) 148 Cal.App.3d 374, 391-92.)¿ In addition,¿punitive
damages are allowed only where “it is proven by clear and convincing evidence
that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.”¿ (Civ.
Code, § 3294(a).)¿ Courts have viewed despicable conduct as conduct “so vile,
base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked
down upon and despised by ordinary decent people. (Scott v. Phoenix Schools, Inc., (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715.)
Further, Civil Code § 3294(c) provides the definition of malice, oppression,
and fraud. Malice is “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause
injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the
defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.” (Ibid.) Oppression is
“despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person's rights.” (Ibid.) Fraud is “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.”¿(Ibid.)¿ 
 
Upon reviewing the FAC, Plaintiff sufficiently alleged a
claim warranting punitive damages. Notably, Plaintiff alleged fraud by
Defendant Chahayed who induced Plaintiff to enter a contract he never intended
to perform. (See, e.g., FAC ¶¶ 1, 2.) Working in tandem with Plaintiff’s
landlord, Nickerson, who allegedly sought to wrongfully evict Plaintiff for
reporting hazardous conditions is conduct that “would be looked down upon and
despised by ordinary decent people.” Whether Plaintiff can ultimately prove he
is entitled to punitive damages is a question for the future, not at the
pleading stage.
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Moving Parties’ motion to
strike punitive damages.
 
Irrelevant, False, Improper Allegations
 
Moving Parties seek to strike the following portions of the
FAC:
 
Irrelevant, False,
Improper Allegations:
1.      Paragraph
14: “In or around May 2022, Plaintiff CHUNG and CHAHAYED entered an oral
contract where CHUNG agreed to sell SIMI OIL to CHAHAYED for $75,000.00 (“Oral
Contract”). Immediately after CHAHAYED agreed to buy SIMI OIL contingent on him
getting a new lease (“New Lease”), CHUNG met NICKERSON in person and requested
the New Lease. NICKERSON stated that CHAHAYED would have to submit a written
application for the New Lease. CHAHAYED promptly submitted to New Lease
application to NICKERSON.”
2.      Paragraph
15: “CHAHAYED saw an opportunity to steal SIMI OIL without paying $75,000.00 to
CHUNG.”
3.      Paragraph
15: “Once the old lease expired, NICKERSON would evict CHUNG, and CHAHAYED
would sign the New Lease and steal SIMI OIL.”
4.      Paragraph
16: “There was no other contingency.”
5.      Paragraph
17: “CHAHAYED’s bad intent showed from the beginning.”
6.      Paragraph
20: “Mr. Morris demanded that various issues be fixed which CHUNG did promptly
. . . . However, the SIMI OIL was in good condition and CHUNG fixed all
nitpicking violations cited by Mr. Morris.”
7.      Paragraph
30: “In or around June 2022, CHUNG and CHAHAYED entered an oral contract where
CHUNG agreed to sell SIMI OIL to CHAHAYED for $75,000.00 (“Oral Contract”).
CHAHAYED examined the SIMI OIL, reviewed the electronic debit receipts, and
offered to purchase SIMI OIL for $75,000.00. Obtaining a new lease for CHAHAYED
was the sole and only contingency of the Oral Contract. The sale included the
Personal Property at SIMI OIL. The existence of the Oral Contract and the terms
are memorialized by the Escrow documents signed by both parties attached as
Exhibit 1.”
8.      Paragraph
31: “CHUNG has performed all the terms and conditions required of him under the
Oral Contract. Specifically, he obtained the New Lease for CHAHAYED from BM for
the SIMI OIL on November 8, 2024, fulfilling the sole contingency of the Oral
Contract.”
9.      Paragraph
32: “CHAHAYED, on the other hand, materially breached the Oral Contract by
refusing to sign the New Lease. He first breached the Oral Contract by
committing a criminal act of filing the FBN Statement identifying himself as
the owner of SIMI OIL even before the Escrow was opened. He also breached the
Oral Contract when he refused to sign the New Lease. He further breached the
Oral Contract by failing to pay CHUNG $75,000.00 after taking possession of
SIMI OIL. He also breached the Oral Contract by offering to pay less than
$75,000.00 to CHUNG after he had taken possession of SIMI OIL. Indeed, CHAHAYED
tormented CHUNG by insincere offering of lesser amount than the contracted
amount of $75,000.00 after he took over. Basically, CHAHAYED thumbed his nose
at CHUNG after he had successfully stolen SIMI OIL. Of course stealing
something from a person is nothing to be proud of, but CHAHAYED was proud of
the thievery.”
10.  Paragraph
35: “The Oral Contract between CHUNG, on the one hand, and CHAHAYED, on the
other hand, includes implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing of the
part of the parties thereto.”
11.  Paragraph
41: “CHUNG had a valuable contract with CHAHAYED, including but not limited to
the Oral Contract, which constituted a legally binding agreement by CHAHAYED to
purchase SIMI OIL from CHUNG for $75,000.00. The Oral Contract entitled CHUNG
to numerous benefits including, among other things, monetary consideration.”
12.  Paragraph
42: “CHAHAYED had the ability to perform his obligations fully under the Oral
Contract.”
13.  Paragraph
76a-b: “In or around May 2022, CHAHAYED represented to CHUNG that he would pay
$75,000.00 to CHUNG for the sale of SIMI OIL to him. In or around May 2022,
CHAYAHED represented to CHUNG that he would immediately sign the New Lease
under the terms outlined in the draft lease for SIMI OIL once it was offered to
him. Then he would close escrow and pay CHUNG $75,000.00.”
14.  Paragraph
76d: “In or around July 2022, CHAHAYED stated that the terms of the draft lease
was finalized, he would immediately sign the New Lease and close escrow and pay
$75,000.00 to CHUNG.”
15.  Paragraph
77c: “but by this time had conspired with CHAHAYED so that CHAHAYED wouldn’t
sign the New Lease. NICKERSON and CHAHAYED conspired that CHAHAYED wouldn’t
sign the New Lease and CHUNG would be evicted after November 30, 2022, and
CHAHAYED would sign the new lease then and not pay $75,000.00 to CHUNG.”
16.  Paragraph
78: “Both NICKERSON and CHAHAYED knew that the representations were false when
they made it, or they made the representations recklessly and without regard
for its truths. On information and belief, almost from the beginning when
CHAHAYED was introduced to NICKERSON by CHUNG as a buyer for SIMI OIL, they
conspired together to delay, make false promises until CHUNG’s lease expired on
November 30, 2022 and then evicted.”
17.  Prayer
item D: “Reasonable attorney’s fees and costs.”
Moving Parties contend these allegations must be stricken
because there was no oral contract. Plaintiff did not file an opposition.
 
As noted above, the court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (CCP § 436(a).) The court
may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436(b).)
 
“A party may not recover attorney fees unless expressly
authorized by statute or contract. [Citations.] In the absence of a statute
authorizing the recovery of attorney fees, the parties may agree on whether and
how to allocate attorney fees.” (Hom v.
Petrou (2021) 67 Cal.App.5th 459, 464, review denied (Oct. 20, 2021); see
also, Civ. Code § 1717.)¿¿A plaintiff may recover reasonable attorney fees
incurred to recover benefits due under the policy, but this does not include
fees in proving the bad faith claim itself. (Brandt v. Sup. Ct. (Standard Ins. Co.) (1985) 37 Cal.3d 813,
817.)  
 
The
court disregards Moving Parties’ arguments that are clearly factual disputes.
The surviving argument concerns Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees. The
court agrees with Moving Parties that Plaintiff has insufficiently alleged
facts supporting a claim for attorney’s fees. Indeed, the only reference to
attorney’s fees in the FAC is in the Prayer.
 
Accordingly,
the court GRANTS Moving Parties’ motion to strike as to Prayer Item D,
“Reasonable attorney’s fees and costs.” only. The court otherwise DENIES Moving
Parties’ motion to strike.
 
Litigation Privilege
 
Moving Parties seek to strike the following portion of the
FAC:
 
Litigation Privilege:
1.      Paragraph
24: “And the despicable plan worked to perfection. CHAHAYED refused to sign the
New Lease wanting to get SIMI OIL for free. As part of the conspiracy, on
December 22, 2022, NICKERSON sent a Notice of Termination of Tenancy to CHUNG
on December 22, 2022. A true and correct copy of the Notice is attached as
Exhibit 5. NICKERSON made it clear that if CHUNG did not vacate the SIMI OIL,
NICKERSON would file an unlawful detainer action against him to evict him and
recover attorneys’ fees. CHUNG had been constructively evicted and left the
SIMI OIL on December 31, 2022. In his hurry, he left tools, machines, and/or
equipment (“Personal Property”) used at SIMI OIL. He had not removed the
Personal Property from the SIMI OIL because it was part of the sale of SIMI OIL
to CHAHAYED.”
The litigation privilege is codified at Civil Code section
47, subdivision (b), and provides that “a privileged publication or broadcast
is one made . . . [¶] [i]n any . . . judicial proceeding . . . .”¿¿ 
¿ 
“’The principal purpose of [Civil Code] section [47,
subdivision (b)] is to afford litigants and witnesses . . .¿ the utmost freedom
of access to the courts without fear of being harassed
subsequently by derivative tort actions.’ [Citation.]
Additionally, the privilege promotes effective judicial proceedings by
encouraging ‘“open channels of communication and the presentation of
evidence”’¿without the external threat of liability [citation]¿and ‘by
encouraging attorneys to zealously protect their clients' interests.’
[Citation.]” (Flatley v. Mauro (2006)
39 Cal.4th 299, 321-322.)¿ 
¿ 
The litigation privilege is “absolute,” and “it bars all
tort causes of action except a claim of malicious prosecution.” (Hagberg v. California Federal Bank (2004)
32 Cal.4th 350, 360.) It applies not only to statements made before a court but
broadly “to any communication (1) made in judicial or quasi-judicial
proceedings; (2) by litigants or other participants authorized by law; (3) to
achieve the objects of the litigation; and (4) that have some connection or
logical relation to the action.” (Silberg
v. Anderson (1990) 50 Cal.3d 205, 212 (Silberg).)
Simply put, “communications in connection with matters related to a lawsuit are
privileged under Civil Code section 47, subdivision (b).” (Sylmar Air Conditioning v. Pueblo Contracting Services (2004) 122
Cal.App.4th 1049, 1058.)¿ 
 
Moving Parties contend these allegations must be stricken
because they are protected by the litigation privilege. Plaintiff did not file
an opposition. 
 
The court disagrees for three reasons. First, Plaintiff’s
claim is not based on the Notice of Termination of Tenancy, rather, the Notice
of Termination of Tenancy is illustrative of Defendant Nickerson’s alleged bad
acts. Second, the Notice of Termination of Tenancy is not part of any judicial
proceeding and the court is unaware of authority indicating that a threatened
unlawful detainer action that never comes to fruition is still protected by the
litigation privilege. Finally, the court is unsure how Moving Parties have
standing to raise this particular argument since the paragraph in question
really pertains to Defendant Nickerson, not to Defendant Chahayed or Defendant
Simi Oil.
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Moving Parties’ motion to
strike allegations under the litigation privilege.
 
Leave to Amend
 
Leave to amend should be liberally granted if there is a
reasonable possibility an amendment could cure the defect.¿ (County of Santa Clara v. Superior Court
(2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 1018,1035.)¿ The Plaintiff has the burden of
demonstrating that leave to amend should be granted, and that the defects can
be cured by amendment. (“Plaintiff must show in what manner he can amend his
complaint and how that amendment will change the legal effect of his pleading.”
(Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d
335, 349).¿ 
 
Here,
Plaintiff has requested leave to amend. The court is skeptical that Plaintiff
can amend concerning Defendant Simi Oil. However, out of an abundance of
caution, the court will allow Plaintiff’s an opportunity to amend the FAC to
allege factual allegations pertaining to Defendant Simi Oil and to otherwise
allege facts that address the deficiencies noted above.
 
Accordingly, the court GRANTS leave to
amend.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.Demurrer is SUSTAINED as to the
eighth [and second] causes of action and OVERRULED as to the first, [second],
sixth, seventh, and tenth causes of action as to Defendant Chahayed;
2.Demurrer is SUSTAINED in its
entirety as to Defendant Simi Quick Lube & Oil;
3.Motion to Strike is GRANTED in
part. The court ORDERS Prayer item D stricken from the FAC. Otherwise, the
Motion to Strike is DENIED.
4.Plaintiff is GRANTED leave to
amend.
5.Plaintiff is to file a Second
Amended Complaint within 20 days of notice of this ruling.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              September 5, 2024                  __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


