  Case Number:  19STCV30239    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  74 The Wonderful Company, LLC v. Anthem Blue
Cross Lief and Health Insurance Company, et al.  
Defendant Anthem Blue Cross Life and
Health Insurance Company’s Motion to Seal 

 

BACKGROUND 
Anthem Blue Cross Life
and Health Insurance Company (“Anthem”) is a third-party health administrator
hired by Wonderful Company, LLC to administer its health insurance plan to
Plaintiff’s employees. The Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital Stanford (“LPCH”)
is a non-profit that provides pediatric and obstetric care. (SAC, ¶3.) Plaintiff
alleges Anthem breached their contract and the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing by authorizing fraudulent charges and failing to adequately
review invoices from service providers. (SAC, ¶¶ 6, 9, 10, and 13.) On June 28,
2024, Anthem filed its Motion to Seal portions of its evidence in support of its
motion for summary judgment.
DISCUSSION¿  
Legal Standard 
Under California Rules of Court
Rule 2.550, the court may seal a record “only if it expressly finds facts that
establish: (1) There exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of
public access to the record; (2) The overriding interest supports sealing the
record; (3) A substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will
be prejudiced if the record is not sealed; (4) The proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored; and (5) No less restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding
interest.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd. (d).) 
Further, California Rules of Court Rule 2.551 states, “[a] party
requesting that a record be filed under seal must file a motion or an
application for an order sealing the record. The motion or application must be
accompanied by a memorandum and a declaration containing facts sufficient to
justify the sealing.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subd. (b)(1).) 
Analysis 
Anthem requests an
order sealing portions of its motion for summary judgment or adjudication and accompanying
filings.[1] Specifically, Anthem requests to seal
certain financial and business information, identifying medical information,
and identifying information of non-parties. This includes the Administrative
Services Agreement (“ASA”) and Center of Medical Excellence (“CME”) Agreement with
LPCH as well as related excerpts.[2]
As a preliminary
matter, the Court finds that Anthem has filed a motion for an order sealing the
records that is accompanied by a memorandum and declaration as required by
California Rules of Court, Rule 2.551, subdivision (b)(1).) Anthem has also filed
redacted and unredacted copies of its motion for summary judgment, separate
statement, and supporting declaration for the Court to review.  
The Court finds Anthem’s
motion and declaration contain sufficient facts to justify the sealing. First, an overriding interest exists that overcomes the right of
public access to the record and the overriding interest supports sealing the
records because, for example, the ASA includes financial arrangements between
Anthem and Plaintiff as well as Anthem’s business strategies and procedures. (Motion,
p. 12; Pullano Decl., ¶¶ 3; 5.)  The CME
Agreement similarly includes Anthems’ financial modeling and provider network
contract negotiations. (Motion, p. 13; Pullano Decl., ¶¶ 4-5.) Second, a
substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be prejudiced
if the records are not sealed because Anthem keeps any ASA and provider
contract with customers like Plaintiff or providers like LPCH confidential, and
because the public and Anthem’s competitors will have access to contractual and
financial information that Anthem deems sensitive. (Motion,
pp. 13-14; Pullano Decl., ¶¶ 5-8.) Third, the proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored and no less restrictive means exist to preserve the overriding
interest because Anthem only seeks to seal the confidential and proprietary financial
information or personally identifying information of non-parties; all other
information is public. (Motion, p. 15.)
CONCLUSION¿ 
Defendant Anthem Blue
Cross Life and Health Insurance Company’s Motion to Seal is granted.  
Defendant shall give
notice.


