 Case Number:  21STCV35044    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  74 Ross v. Los  Angeles County dba Department of Children and Family Services Defendant County of Los Angeles’  Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication.   In 1984, plaintiff  started working for defendant County of Los Angeles. When hired, plaintiff  enrolled in the Los Angeles County Employees Retirement Association’s (LACERA)  Plan D. Plan D obligated plaintiff to make regular paycheck contributions to  the plan. In 1985, plaintiff’s enrollment in LACERA changed to Plan E, a  non-contributory plan. (Fact 12, 13) In 1999, plaintiff  submitted an application to transfer her account from Plan E to Plan D, but the  application was incomplete. (Fact 17, 19, 20) (The court notes that plaintiff’s  separate statement in opposition to defendant's motion for summary judgment  purports to dispute whether her application was incomplete, but her separate  statement’s citation to “Exhibit 1 – Plaintiff declaration” without directing  the court’s attention to where in her declaration she disputes that fact is  insufficient to create a triable issue.) Other aborted inquiries followed in  2002 and 2004 in which plaintiff investigated switching from Plan E to Plan D. (Fact  22-25, 27-29) In 2020, plaintiff filed  this lawsuit alleging three negligence-related claims and two FEHA violations  against the County based on the County's purported liability for the County not having  switched her account from Plan E to Plan D. The County moves for summary  judgment or adjudication. The court grants summary  adjudication of plaintiff’s state law negligence claims (causes of action 1-3).  Plaintiff does not cite authority that the County has a duty to help plaintiff  select her LACERA retirement plan or complete her paperwork to switch plans.  Rather, plaintiff did not complete the paperwork required to switch plans. Plaintiff’s  discussion at page 17 of her opposition is bereft of any meaningful analysis of  duty. Because plaintiff does not establish that the County owed any duty to  plaintiff concerning her enrollment in Plan D, the County is entitled to  summary adjudication. The court grants summary  adjudication for the County of plaintiff’s FEHA retaliation and failure to  prevent retaliation claims (4th and 5th causes of action) because plaintiff  does not identify an adverse employment action. (Opposition pp. 11-14) Because no causes of  action remain against the County, the court grants the County summary judgment.  The County shall prepare, file, and serve a proposed judgment. The County shall give  notice.