 Case Number:  22STCV06617    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  SHAKIBA YEGAN, Plaintiff(s), vs.  UBER TECHNOLOGIES, INC., ET AL., Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) Case No.: 22STCV06617  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE CROSS-COMPLAINT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m. October 5, 2023  I. Background Plaintiff, Shakiba Yegan (“Plaintiff”), filed this action against Defendants, Uber Technologies, Inc., Rasier, LLC and Rasier-CA, LLC, Cesar Augusto Campos Orellana and Francisco J. Giron for injuries arising from an automobile incident.  At this time, Defendants Uber Technologies, Inc., Rasier, LLC and Rasier-CA, LLC, (collectively, “Uber Defendants”) seek leave to file a cross-complaint against Defendant Francisco J. Giron (“Giron”) for (1) comparative indemnity and apportionment of fault, (2) equitable indemnity, (3) contribution, and (4) declaratory relief. Any opposition to the motion was due on or before September 22, 2023; none have been filed.  II. Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint  A cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the initial complaint or cross-complaint against the cross-complainant must be filed before or at the same time as the answer to the initial complaint or cross-complaint, which answer must be filed within 30 days of service of the complaint or cross-complaint.  (CCP §§ 412.20(a)(3), 428.50(a), 432.10.)  Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a trial date.  (CCP §428.50(b).)    If a party fails to file a cross-complaint within the time limits described above, he or she must obtain permission from the court to file the cross-complaint.  (CCP §§ 426.50, 428.50(c).)  Leave to file a mandatory cross-complaint must be granted absent bad faith. (Silver Organizations, Ltd. v. Frank (1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 94, 99.)  Leave to file a permissive cross-complaint need only be granted in the interest of justice. (CCP §428.50(c).) Where the proposed cross-complaint arises out of the same transaction as plaintiff’s claim, the court must grant leave to file the cross-complaint so long as defendant is acting in good faith.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.50.) Here, the Uber Defendants contend that the complaint and cross-complaint arise from the same incident and should be litigated together. The Uber Defendants argue no parties will suffer prejudice because discovery had just commenced, and no depositions have taken place or have yet to be scheduled.  Trial is currently set for February 29, 2024. No parties filed any opposition to the motion. Accordingly, with the current trial date, there is sufficient time to complete discovery, and the Court finds leave to file the proposed cross-complaint would be in the interest of justice with no identifiable prejudice.   The motion for leave to file a cross-complaint is GRANTED. The Uber Defendants are ordered to file their proposed cross-complaint within ten (10) days of the date of this Order.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 4th day of October 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   