 Case Number:  21STCV16477    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  TAMECA SHAVON THOMAS, ET AL., Plaintiff(s),  vs.  JAMES CALVIN GARRETT II, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV16477  [TENTATIVE] ORDER CONDITIONALLY GRANTING MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  October 5, 2023  Plaintiffs Tameca Shavon Thomas and Donald Ray Thomas (“Plaintiffs”) attorney of record, Helen Won of Pacific Sterling Law Group (“Counsel”), moves to be relieved as counsel contending relief is necessary because Counsel and Plaintiffs are unable to agree as to how to proceed with the case, and Plaintiffs will no longer accept Counsel’s advice. Counsel declares the attorney-client relationship of trust and confidence no longer exists.  Counsel declares they served the moving papers on Plaintiffs via mail at the client’s last known address, which was confirmed by telephone within the past 30 days. Counsel filed proof of service of the moving papers on Plaintiffs and Defendant. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1362(d).)  The trial date is currently set for December 21, 2023, which is two months from the hearing date on the instant motion. Unlike their clients, attorneys do not have an absolute right to withdraw from representation at any time with or without cause. Even where grounds for termination exist, attorneys seeking to withdraw must comply with the procedures set forth in California Rule of Professional Conduct (CRPC) 3.700 and are subject to discipline for failure to do so. CRPC 3.700(B) lists various grounds for mandatory withdrawal.  Therefore, the motion is CONDITIONALLY GRANTED if all parties in the matter are present before the Court and stipulate to a trial continuance. The appearance may be remote. The ruling is effective upon filing proofs of service of the final order. Otherwise, if the parties do not stipulate to a trial continuance, the motion is denied without prejudice.    Moving Counsel is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 4th day of October 2023      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    