 Case Number:  23STCV01553    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



HOOMAN MELAMED, M.D., INC., et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
CENTINELA VALLEY IPA,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV01553
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANTS’ MOTION
  FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
August 8, 2024



 
On January 24, 2023, Plaintiffs Hooman Melamed, M.D., Inc.
and Paul Dwan, M.D., Inc. filed this action against only Centinela Valley IPA.
On March 8, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a first
amended complaint (“FAC”) against only Defendant MedPoint Management.
On May 2, 2024, Defendant filed a motion
for summary judgment.
DEFENDANT’S
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
Nos. 1, 2: Sustained for lack of foundation
and personal knowledge.
No. 3:  Sustained for lack of foundation and authentication.  Declarant is not a party to the emails.
No. 4: Sustained for lack of foundation
and personal knowledge.
No 5: Sustained as speculation.
DEFENDANT’S REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
Nos. 1, 2:  Denied as unnecessary because the documents are
already part of this case’s record.
Nos. 3, 4, 5:  Granted.

BACKGROUND
FACTS
Defendant
is a health care management service organization that provides comprehensive management
services, which includes utilization management, care management, and claims processing,
for independent practice associations and health care networks.  (Undisputed Material Fact “UMF” 1.)  It is not a health care service plan and is not
an insurer: it does not have patient enrollees, does not insure patients for health
care, does not have members, and does not cover patients for health, hospitalization,
or medical insurance.  (UMF 2.)
The
Department of Managed Health Care (“DMHC”) regulates health care service plans under
the Knox-Keene Health Care Service Plan Act (“Knox-Keene Act”).  (UMF 4.) 
The DMHC requires all health care service plans in the State of California
to be licensed by the DMHC.  (UMF 5.)  The DMHC maintains a list of all health care service
plans in California on its website.  (UMF
6.)  Defendant is not listed in the DMHC’s
list of all health care service plans in California on the DMHC’s website.  (UMF 7.)
On
January 29, 2021, Plaintiffs provided emergency medical services to Patient CB.  (Additional Material Fact “AMF” 1.)  Defendant never requested Plaintiffs to provide
emergency services to Patient CB.  (UMF 8.)  Any emergency services that Plaintiffs provided
to Patient CB did not benefit Defendant. 
(UMF 9.)
LEGAL
STANDARD
For
each claim in the complaint, the defendant moving for adjudication must satisfy
the initial burden of proof by showing that one or more elements of a cause of action
cannot be established or that there is a complete defense to a cause of action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520 (Scalf).)  Then the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf,
supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at p. 1520.)  To establish a triable issue of material fact,
the party opposing the motion must produce “substantial responsive evidence.”  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th
151, 162-163.)
DISCUSSION
Defendant
moves for summary judgment of the sole cause of action for quantum meruit.
Plaintiffs
allege that Patient CB was insured by Defendant and paid premiums to Defendant.  (FAC ¶ 7.) 
Plaintiffs submitted a bill for Patient CB’s procedure to Defendant.  (FAC ¶ 23.) 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant did not comply with the Knox Keene Act when
it failed to resolve the billing dispute with Plaintiffs, and Defendant now owes
payment for Plaintiffs’ services.  (FAC ¶¶
26-27, 30-34.)
Under
the Knox Keene Act, a health care service plan must reimburse providers for emergency
services and care provided to its enrollees. 
(Health & Saf. Code, § 1371.4, subd. (b).)  A “health care service plan” is either “(1) Any
person who undertakes to arrange for the provision of health care services to subscribers
or enrollees, or to pay for or to reimburse any part of the cost for those services,
in return for a prepaid or periodic charge paid by or on behalf of the subscribers
or enrollees”; or “(2) Any person, whether located within or outside of this state,
who solicits or contracts with a subscriber or enrollee in this state to pay for
or reimburse any part of the cost of, or who undertakes to arrange or arranges for,
the provision of health care services that are to be provided wholly or in part
in a foreign country in return for a prepaid or periodic charge paid by or on behalf
of the subscriber or enrollee.”  (Health &
Saf. Code, § 1345, subd. (f).)
Defendant
is not an insurer.  (UMF 3.)  Defendant does not have patient enrollees, does
not insure patients for health care, does not have members, and does not cover patients
for health, hospitalization, or medical insurance.  (UMF 3.) 
Additionally, the DMHC requires all health care service plans in the State
of California to be licensed by the DMHC, and Defendant is not listed in the DMHC’s
list of all health care service plans on its website.  (UMF 5-6.)
Moreover,
“in order to recover under a quantum meruit theory, a plaintiff must establish both
that he or she was acting pursuant to either an express or implied request
for such services from the defendant and that the services rendered were
intended to and did benefit the defendant.”  (Day v. Alta Bates Medical Center (2002)
98 Cal.App.4th 243, 248.)  Defendant never
requested Plaintiffs to provide emergency services to Patient CB, and any emergency
services that Plaintiffs provided to Patient CB did not benefit Defendant.  (UMF 8-9.)
Defendant
has met its burden of showing that it is not a health care service plan subject
to the Knox Keene Act and does not owe money to Plaintiffs under a theory of quantum
meruit.
Plaintiffs
argue, without citing evidence, that “[t]he evidence shows that Defendant engages
in the activities that could define Defendant as a health care service plan.”  (Opposition at p. 9.)  Plaintiffs also note that Chris Macris, Defendant’s
Senior Manager of Claims Operations, was confused about the term “health care service
plan” during his deposition.  (Id.
at pp. 8-9.)  But this lack of clarity about
the term does not negate the factual declarations that Defendant “is not an insurer,
does not have patient enrollees, does not insure patients for health care, does
not have members, and does not cover patients for health, hospitalization, or medical
insurance.”  (Macris Decl. ¶ 6.)
Plaintiffs
have failed to show the existence of a triable issue of material fact regarding
whether Defendant is a health care service plan under the Knox Keane Act and is
liable for Plaintiffs’ claim of quantum meruit.
CONCLUSION
The
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.  Defendant
is ordered to file a proposed judgment within five days.
A
Non-Appearance Case Review Re: Submission of Proposed Judgment is scheduled for
August 28, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 8th day of August 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 