 Case Number:  22STCV27209    Hearing Date:   August 8, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



THERESA CHANG, et
  al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
BRINKS GLOBAL SERVICES USA, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV27209
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE
  ORDER AS TO DEFENDANT GLORIA CORRALES 
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
August 8, 2024



 
On June 28, 2024, Defendant Gloria
Corrales filed a motion for protective order. 
Defendant requests that the Court enter her proposed protective order, which
is modeled after the Los Angeles County Superior Court Model Protective Order published
by this Court.  Plaintiffs agree that a protective
order should be entered, but they disagree on the terms.  (Opposition at p. 2.)
Plaintiffs
contend that in the SDNY litigation, Brink’s has designated almost everything it
produced either Confidential or Highly Confidential.  (Opposition at pp. 3-4.)  That is not indicative of what Corrales will designate
in this action and is not relevant here.
Plaintiffs
state that the Court previously “did not call for use of the Los Angeles Superior
Court model Protective Order, but simply told the parties to meet and confer on
a Protective Order that would cover categories of documents that had to be covered.”  (Opposition at p. 5.)  As shown by Plaintiffs’ transcript excerpt, the
Court suggested that some categories may be confidential, but the Court only ordered
the parties to meet and confer.
Plaintiffs
propose that the protective order be limited to only the following categories of
documents: (1) security procedures of Brink’s implemented post-loss and security
procedures of Pilot Corporation; (2) current pricing information, or past pricing
information provided on a confidential basis at the time of the transaction; (3)
documents produced by Brink’s in the SDNY Action and designated as Confidential
or Highly Confidential, and not at any time de-designated by that Court or by Brink’s;
(4) testimony given in depositions taken in this case that specifically references
documents designated as Confidential or Highly Confidential in the SDNY Action or
in this case; (5) financial or tax information of Plaintiffs; and (6) medical records
of Plaintiffs.
Plaintiffs
have not shown cause for limiting the protective order to only these categories.  As Corrales notes, this leaves her “limited to
predetermined categories based on decisions of a separate court and dealings with
other parties without relation to Ms. Corrales and without any ability to challenge
those designations.”  (Reply at p. 5.)  The Court will not limit the protections of a
protective order on this basis.
Accordingly,
the motion for protective order is GRANTED.
Corrales
is ordered to separately file her amended proposed protective order, omitting references
to it being a stipulation, within five days.
A
Non-Appearance Case Review Re: Submission of Proposed Protective Order is scheduled
for August 14, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 8th day of August 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 