  Case Number:  23TRCV00434    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
DIEGO
  RODRIGUEZ BARRERA, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV00434




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
JOSE
  FUENTES VEGA, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          July 11,
2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Proposed intervenor National Continental Insurance
Company
Responding
Party:                  None
Motion to Intervene
 
            The Court considered the moving
papers.  No opposition was filed.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED.   National Continental Insurance Company is
ordered to file its complaint-in-intervention within five days.
BACKGROUND
            On February 15, 2023, Diego
Rodriguez Barrera and Yaneth Alexandra Rizzo Verel filed a complaint against
Jose Fuentes Vega and Alcocer, Inc. for motor vehicle negligence based on an
incident that occurred on December 28, 2021, at LAX.
            On December 12, 2023, the court
granted plaintiff’s motion to serve the secretary of state as to Alcocer.
DISCUSSION
National Continental Insurance
Company (“National”) requests leave to file a complaint-in-intervention on
behalf of defendants Jose Fuentes Vega and Alcocer, Inc. pursuant to CCP §387.
CCP §387(d) states:  “(1) 
The court shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene
in the action or proceeding if either of the following conditions is satisfied:
(A) 
A provision of law confers an unconditional right to intervene.
(B) 
The person seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the
property or transaction that is the subject of the action and that person is so
situated that the disposition of the action may impair or impede that person’s
ability to protect that interest, unless that person’s interest is adequately
represented by one or more of the existing parties.
(2)
The court may, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the
action or proceeding if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation,
or in the success of either of the parties, or an interest against both.”
To establish a direct and immediate
interest in the litigation for purposes of permissive intervention, a non-party
seeking intervention must show that he or she stands to gain or lose by direct
operation of the judgment, even if no specific interest in the property or
transaction at issue exists.  Simpson Redwood Co. v. State of California
(1987) 196 Cal. App. 3d 1192, 1201. 
“Whether the intervener’s interest is sufficiently direct must be
decided on the facts of each case . . . . And section 387 should be liberally
construed in favor of intervention.”  Id. at 1200.  “In order that a party may be permitted to
intervene it is not necessary that his interest in the action be such that he
will inevitably be affected by the judgment. 
It is enough that there be a substantial probability that his interests
will also be so affected.  'The purposes
of intervention are to protect the interests of those who may be affected by
the judgment . . . .'"  Timberidge Enterprises, Inc. v. City of
Santa Rosa (1978) 86 Cal. App. 3d 873, 881-82 (citations and italics
omitted).
Under California law, an insurance
carrier who is not a party to an action can intervene on behalf of its insured
when the insurance carrier could be subject to a subsequent action under Ins.
Code §11580.  See Reliance Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 84 Cal. App. 4th 383,
386, where the court states:  “An
insurer’s right to intervene in an action against the insured, for personal
injury or property damages, arises as a result of Ins. Code section 11580.”  “Section 11580 provides that a judgment
creditor may proceed directly against any liability insurance covering the
defendant, and obtain satisfaction of the judgment up to the amount of the
policy limits.  Thus, where the insurer
may be subject to a direct action under Insurance Code section 11580 by a
judgment creditor who has or will obtain a default judgment in a third party
action against the insured, intervention is appropriate.”  Id.  See also Jade
K. v. Viguri (1989) 210 Cal. App. 3d 1459, 1468 (permitting an insurer to
intervene in lawsuit to litigate liability and damage issues).
National contends that it is the
liability insurer for defendants Vega and Alcocer, Inc.  National retained Olson Law Group, APC
(“OLG”) to represent defendants.  Despite
diligent efforts, OLG has not established contact with Alcocer and has been
unable to maintain contact with Vega. 
See Heather Lunn decl. 
If defendants cannot defend themselves,
and no defense is provided by National on defendants’ behalf, a default
judgment will be obtained and enforced against defendants.  National, as defendants’ insurer, could be
required to satisfy that judgment up to the policy limits.  Thus, National has a real, immediate, and
concrete interest in the matter that is the subject of this litigation.  Intervention will not enlarge the issues in
this case.
The Court finds that National has
met its burden under CCP §387(d).  National
is so situated, as the insurer, that the disposition of the action against defendants
may, as a practical matter, impair or impede National’s ability to protect that
interest.  National’s interest is not
adequately represented by its insured.
The motion for leave to intervene
is therefore GRANTED.
ORDER
            The motion is GRANTED.  National is ordered to file its
complaint-in-intervention within five days. 
National is ordered to give notice
of the ruling.