 Case Number:  23TRCV04159    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
CARLOS
  LEON, et al.,  


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV04159




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING
 




 
CITY
  OF HAWTHORNE, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          July 11,
2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Defendant City of Hawthorne
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiffs Carlos Leon, et al.
(1)  
Demurrer to First Amended Complaint
(2)  
Motion to Strike Portions of FAC
 
            The Court considered the moving and opposition
papers. 
RULING
            The demurrer to the first, second,
and third causes of action in the FAC is SUSTAINED WITH TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO
AMEND.
            The motion to strike is GRANTED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.
BACKGROUND
            On December 14, 2023, plaintiffs Carlos
Leon, Eva Leon, and T.L., a minor by and through her guardian ad litem, Eva
Leon, filed a complaint against City of Hawthorne and County of Los Angeles for
(1) negligence – dangerous condition of public property, (2) public employee
and agent liability, and (3) wrongful death.
            On April 10, 2024, plaintiffs filed
a FAC.
            This case is related to 23TRCV00302
(against the driver of the vehicle).
LEGAL AUTHORITY
Demurrer
When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context. 
Taylor v. City of Los Angeles
Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal. App. 4th 1216, 1228.  “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not
the evidence or other extrinsic matters. 
Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed.”  SKF Farms v. Superior Court (1984) 153
Cal. App. 3d 902, 905.  “The only issue
involved in a demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands,
unconnected with extraneous matters, states a cause of action.”  Hahn v.
Mirda (2007) 147 Cal. App. 4th 740, 747. 
Sufficient facts are the essential facts of the case “with reasonable
precision and with particularity sufficiently specific to acquaint the
defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his cause of action.” Gressley
v. Williams (1961) 193 Cal. App. 2d 636, 643-44.
Strike
“The court may, upon a motion . .
., or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:  (a) Strike any irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.  (b)
Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity
with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.”  CCP §436(b).
            CCP §431.10 states:  “(a) A material allegation in a pleading is
one essential to the claim or defense and which could not be stricken from the
pleading without leaving it insufficient as to that claim or defense.  
(b) An immaterial allegation in a
pleading is any of the following:  (1) An
allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim or defense.  (2) An allegation that is neither pertinent
to nor supported by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense.  (3) A demand for judgment requesting relief
not supported by the allegations of the complaint or cross-complaint.  
(c) An ‘immaterial allegation’
means ‘irrelevant matter’ as that term is used in Section 436.”
The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP §437.
DISCUSSION
Demurrer
Defendant City of Hawthorne demurs
to the first, second, and third causes of action in the FAC on the grounds that
the allegations are insufficient to constitute a cause of action and are
uncertain.
The FAC alleges that plaintiffs’
decedent Michael Leon was born on August 20, 2009, and died on January 8,
2023.  FAC, ¶¶1-2.  This lawsuit stems from a high-speed
automobile versus pedestrian crash that resulted in the death of decedent
Michael and personal injuries to plaintiffs Carlos Leon and T.L.  Id., ¶19. 
On January 8, 2023, in the evening hours, a speeding vehicle fatally
struck plaintiffs’ decedent who was attempting to cross and/or was crossing El
Segundo Blvd.  Id., ¶20.  At about the time the subject incident
occurred, the subject vehicle was engaging in an exhibition of speed and/or
high-speed street race and/or high-speed reckless driving on westbound El
Segundo Blvd. at or near Truro Ave., in the City of Hawthorne, in the County of
Los Angeles.  Id., ¶21.  At the time of the subject incident, the
subject vehicle was traveling at a speed grossly in excess of the posted speed
limit on El Segundo Blvd., which is 40 miles per hour.  Id., ¶22.
The FAC further alleges that the
dangerous and illegal street racing and/or reckless high-speed activity of the
subject crash was one of a plethora of similar incidents which occurred on El
Segundo Blvd. and for which El Segundo Blvd. was known.  Id., ¶23. 
Hawthorne and the County had prior notice of the numerous dangerous
high-speed and/or reckless activities which occurred on El Segundo Blvd., as
well as numerous other busy streets, throughout Hawthorne and the County.  Id., ¶24. 
Despite having this knowledge, these pertinent government agencies did
not do anything to deter or prevent dangerous and reckless high-speed
activities from occurring, or to minimize the risk that such activities could
result in crashes with pedestrians or other vehicles, despite having the means
and ability to do so.  Id., ¶25.
The FAC further alleges that the
dangerous condition was one that created a substantial risk of injury when
pedestrians used El Segundo Blvd. with due care in a manner in which it was
reasonably foreseeable that it would be used. 
The nature of the dangerous condition changed during the COVID-19
pandemic and continuing through the time of the incident as dangerous driving
increased in the subject area significantly and after the pertinent light
signal phasing plans, pedestrian warnings, and related safety design measures
were approved by defendants.  The
dangerous conditions included light signal phasing plans and other actions or
decisions that increased the risk of negligent or criminal conduct on the
roadway, including dangerously high speed street racing and other dangerous,
life threatening conduct by operators of motor vehicles; failure to install
pedestrian-crossing warnings; failure to install “no pedestrian crossing”
signs; and to take other measures to alleviate the dangerous condition, or to
minimize the risk of injury or death arising from the dangerous condition, that
existed at the time of the accident. 
Id., ¶25.
First cause of action for dangerous
condition of public property
            The elements of a cause of action
for a dangerous condition on public property are:  (1) a dangerous condition existed on the
public property at the time of the injury; (2) the condition proximately caused
the injury; (3) the condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind
of injury sustained; and (4) the municipality had actual or constructive notice
of the dangerous condition of the property in sufficient time to have taken
measures to protect against it.  Gov.
Code §835.  “[A] claim alleging a
dangerous condition may not rely on generalized allegations [citation] but must
specify in what manner the condition constituted a dangerous condition.” Brenner
v. City of El Cajon (2003) 113 Cal. App. 4th 434, 439.  A “dangerous condition” is defined as “a
condition of property that creates a substantial (as distinguished from a
minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when such property or adjacent
property is used with due care in a manner in which it is reasonably
foreseeable that it will be used.”  Gov.
Code §830(a).
            “‘[A]claim alleging a dangerous
condition may not rely on generalized allegations but must specify in what
manner the condition constituted a dangerous condition.’  A plaintiff's allegations, and ultimately the
evidence, must establish a physical deficiency in the property itself.  A dangerous condition exists when public
property ‘is physically damaged, deteriorated, or defective in such a way as to
foreseeably endanger those using the property itself,’ or possesses physical
characteristics in its design, location, features or relationship to its
surroundings that endanger users.”  Cerna
v. City of Oakland (2009) 161 Cal. App. 4th 1340, 1347-38 (citations
omitted).  “A public entity may be liable
for a dangerous condition of public property even where the immediate cause of
a plaintiff's injury is a third party's negligent or illegal act (like . . .
grossly negligent driving) if some physical characteristic of the property
exposes its users to increased danger from third party negligence or
criminality.  But it is insufficient to
show only harmful third party conduct, like the conduct of a motorist.  ‘[T]hird party conduct by itself, unrelated
to the condition of the property, does not constitute a ‘dangerous condition’
for which a public entity may be held liable.’ 
There must be a defect in the physical condition of the property and
that defect must have some causal relationship to the third party conduct that
injures the plaintiff.  ‘[P]ublic
liability lies under [Government Code] section 835 only when a feature of the
public property has “increased or intensified” the danger to users from third
party conduct.’”  Id. at 1348
(citations omitted).
The FAC allege that the subject
area whether the incident occurred on El Segundo Blvd., at or near Truro Ave.,
in the City of Hawthorne, including the roadway, intersection, crosswalk,
traffic signals, sequencing of the traffic signals, speed limit warnings,
street lights, and traffic control devices (“Dangerous Condition”) is and was
owned, controlled, designed, operated, evaluated, built, constructed,
maintained, managed, inspected, patrolled, overseen, and/or repaired by
defendants.  FAC, ¶27. 
Defendant argues that plaintiffs
have not pled with the requisite particularity. 
Further, defendant contends, plaintiffs make generalized and conclusory
allegations that the subject intersection was dangerous but fail to allege any
facts specifying the nature of the dangerous condition, why the condition is
dangerous, or how the condition contributed to the incident.  Rather, the FAC merely identifies features of
the intersection in the abstract without specifying how the features or the
lack thereof rendered it a dangerous condition. 
Defendant further argues that plaintiffs fail to allege a causal
relationship between a physical condition and the conduct of a third
party.  Defendant cites to Campbell v.
City of Santa Monica (1942) 51 Cal. App. 2d 626, 629 (“Liability of the
city may not be created by . . . a motorist who disregards the law or
negligently operates his car to the detriment of other.” And, “[t]he fact that
the city may reasonably foresee that some motorists and pedestrians will use
them in a negligent manner to the injury of others does not make it a joint
tort-feasor.”).  Further, defendant
cites, a public entity is only required to provide roads that are safe for
reasonably foreseeable, careful use.  Fuller
v. State of California (1975) 51 Cal. App. 3d 926, 940.  Defendant further argues that the allegations
do not show that the City had actual or constructive notice of any dangerous
condition at the subject intersection.  Moreover,
the City argues, it is immune from liability for injuries caused by the failure
to provide adequate regulatory traffic controls, signals, or markings at an
intersection.  See, e.g., Paz
v. State (2000) 22 Cal. 4th 550, 561 (“no affirmative duty to
install traffic control signals”); Gov. Code §830.8.
In opposition, plaintiffs argue
that they have sufficiently pled dangerous condition of public property,
causation, and notice.  Plaintiffs assert
that although they are not required to allege the specific actions the City
should have taken, the City’s signal phasing plans essentially “created a
tunnel of green lights for vehicles to speed freely.”  Further, plaintiffs contend, the City has
refused to produce its police report of the subject incident by claiming that
it cannot because of the ongoing related criminal action.  As for immunity, plaintiffs contend, they
sufficiently pled the “failure to warn” exception to the City’s claimed
immunity under Gov. Code §830.8 because lack of pedestrian warning signs
contributed to the dangers condition that was not apparent to pedestrians
crossing the road with due care, which was that El Segundo Blvd., was
“effectively used as a raceway by dangerous and reckless drivers at certain
times.”
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient to meet the elements and are too generalized.  Plaintiffs have not alleged any feature of
the public property that has increased or intensified the danger to users from
third party conduct.  Plaintiffs have not
alleged a defect in the physical condition of the property that has a causal
relationship to the third-party conduct, which is alleged to be street racing
and/or excessive speed.  See Cerna,
supra.  Further, it appears that Gov.
Code §830.8 provides immunity to the City for “failure to provide traffic or
warning signals, signs, markings or devices described in the Vehicle Code” and
plaintiffs have not sufficiently pled the exception under that section.  The allegations are also conclusory as to
actual and/or constructive notice.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
            Second
cause of action for negligence - public employee and agent liability 
The FAC alleges that defendants carelessly
and negligently designed, constructed, owned, operated, maintained, inspected,
and/or controlled the Subject Area; carelessly and negligently supervised,
managed, instructed, performed work and selected, hired, engaged and permitted
others to perform work on the Subject Area, resulting in a dangerous,
defective, and unsafe condition. These dangerous conditions and these acts and
omissions of defendants and 
their
employees proximately caused Decedent’s death and Plaintiffs’ damages herein.  FAC, ¶40. Defendants are liable for the
injuries and damages to decedent and plaintiffs under the Government Code,
including sections 815.2(a), 815.4, 815.6, and 820(a).  Id., ¶43.
Defendant argues that this cause of
action fails to allege a valid statutory basis for imposing liability against
the City and that plaintiffs’ reliance on Gov. Code §§815.2(a), 815.4, and 820 are
misplaced because they do not create a cause of action, as they are general
rules of vicarious liability and a general rule that a public employee is
liable for injury caused by his act or omission.  Rather, the sole statutory basis for a claim
imposing liability on a public entity based on the condition of the public
entity’s property is Gov. Code §835. 
Defendant also argues that the claim fails because it is predicated on
the breach of mandatory duty as the FAC fails to identify the purported
enactment that imposed a mandatory duty.
In opposition, plaintiffs argue
that they have sufficiently pled a negligence cause of action “in the event it
is discovered that one of its independent contractors caused Plaintiffs’
injuries.”
The Court finds that the
allegations are insufficient for the reasons argued by defendant, including
that Gov. Code §835 is the sole statute for imposing liability against a public
entity based on dangerous condition of public property and that the other
Government Code sections do not apply. 
Also, plaintiffs have not identified any enactments imposing a mandatory
duty on defendant.  Government Code §815.6
(a) provides, “where a public entity is under a mandatory duty imposed by
enactment that is designed to protect against the risk of a particular kind of
injury, the public entity is liable for an injury of that kind proximately
caused by its failure to discharge the duty unless the public entity
establishes that it exercised reasonable diligence to discharge the duty.”  “To construe a statute as imposing a mandatory
duty on a public entity, ‘the mandatory nature of the duty must be phrased in
explicit and forceful language.’”  In
re Groundwater Cases (2007) 154 Cal. App. 4th 659, 689 (citation omitted).
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
            Third
cause of action wrongful death
Defendant argues that the FAC fails
to state a cause of action for the underlying cause of action for dangerous
condition of public property, thus this claim also fails.  In any action for wrongful death resulting
from negligence, the complaint must contain allegations as to all the elements
of actionable negligence.  Novak v.
Continental Tire North America (2018) 22 Cal. App. 5th 189, 195.
In opposition, plaintiffs argue
that because they sufficiently alleged a cause of action for dangerous
condition of public property, the wrongful death cause of action is supported.
As the Court ruled above, the
allegations are insufficient to constitute a cause of action for dangerous
condition, upon which this cause of action is based.
The demurrer is SUSTAINED WITH
LEAVE TO AMEND
            
            Motion to Strike
            Defendant
City of Hawthorne requests that the Court strike paras. 25, 27, 28, 33, 34, 35,
36, 37, 44, 47, 48.
            Defendant argues that the
allegations are immaterial and improper because the City is immune.
            In light of the ruling on the
demurrer, the motion to strike is GRANTED WITH LEAVE TO AMEND.
 
ORDER
            The demurrer to the first, second,
and third causes of action in the FAC is SUSTAINED WITH TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO
AMEND.
            The motion to strike is GRANTED WITH
TWENTY DAYS LEAVE TO AMEND.
            Defendant City is ordered to give
notice of ruling.