 Case Number:  24TRCV00012    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  B    Superior    Court of California County    of Los Angeles Southwest    District Torrance    Dept. B       DONG    KUK BANG SON,          Plaintiff,     Case No.:       24TRCV00012       vs.         [Tentative]    RULING         EUNJIN    LEE,         Defendant.                                Hearing  Date:                          July 11, 2024   Moving  Parties:                      Plaintiff Dong Kuk Bang Son Responding  Party:                  Defendant Eunjin Lee Motion  to Compel Deposition of Defendant             The Court considered the moving and opposition  papers. RULING The motion is DENIED.  Counsel are to meet and confer and submit a  stipulation setting forth the agreed date, time and location for the deposition  of Eunjin Lee as discussed below. BACKGROUND             On January 2, 2024, plaintiff Dong Kuk  Bank Son filed a complaint against Eunjin Lee and Jung Jin Chul for motor  vehicle negligence and general negligence based on an incident that occurred on  January 27, 2022.             On March 22, 2024, defendants filed  an answer. LEGAL AUTHORITY             CCP §2025.450(a) provides:  “If, after service of a deposition notice, a  party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a  party, . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,  fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for  inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party  giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance  and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .  described in the deposition notice.”  CCP §2025.450(b) provides, “A  motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following: (1)        The  motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the  production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,  or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. (2)        The  motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section  2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the  documents, electronically stored information, or things described in the  deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted  the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” DISCUSSION Plaintiff  Dong Kuk Bang Sun requests that the Court compel defendant Eunjin Lee to attend  and testify at a deposition, within ten days at plaintiff’s counsel or via  remote video conference.   Plaintiff  asserts that on January 26, 2024, plaintiff served a notice of taking  deposition on Lee, for March 1, 2024.  On  March 11, 2024, plaintiff served a notice of first continuance of taking  deposition of Lee, for April 5, 2024.  On  April 4, 2024, plaintiff’s counsel sent a letter to defense counsel reiterating  the April 5 deposition date and requesting defense counsel to provide  alternative available deposition dates by April 11, 2024, should defendant  and/or defense counsel be unavailable on the date noticed.  On April 12, 2024, plaintiff served a notice  of second continuance of taking deposition, for May 15, 2024.  To date, defendant’s deposition has not taken  place.   Plaintiff  contends that plaintiff has “continually re-noticed Defendant’s deposition in  an effort to accommodate Defendant and Defense Counsel’s schedules” but that  plaintiff cannot wait until a time uncertain to depose defendant. In  opposition, defendant asserts that she has never refused to appear for her  deposition.  To the contrary, defendant  argues, she has repeatedly indicated that she would appear on a mutually  agreeable date and has offered dates for her deposition several times, but  plaintiff failed to notice the deposition after the dates were provided.  Defendant contends that as to the January 26  and the March 11 deposition notices, they were served before defendant appeared  in this action.  Defendant timely  objected to both notices.  As for the  April 12 notice, on May 8, defendant timely objected that defendant and counsel  were unavailable and provided May 22, 2024 as an available date, but they did  not receive any response.  On May 20,  2024, defense counsel offered dates in June 2024 for Lee’s remote deposition  but defendants did not receive any response from plaintiff’s counsel.  Defendant also argues that plaintiff failed  to make a good faith effort to meet and confer as the motion was filed on May  21 although defense counsel had provided available dates in June.  Defendant explains that on June 24, counsel  met and conferred.  On June 26, in an  effort to obtain Lee’s availability, defense counsel learned that Lee is  currently in South Korea and will be undergoing surgery “in the coming days for  issues related to her recent [health] diagnosis.”  Defendant argues that had plaintiff’s counsel  met and conferred prior to filing the motion, the deposition of Lee could have  already taken place during a time when she was available.   The Court  rules as follows:  The motion appears to  have been cut and pasted from another motion as it references another deponent  and representations purportedly made by defense counsel (“extremely busy” and  “in jail for an uncertain period of time”), which appear to be incorrect and  not applicable to this case.  Further,  there is no declaration from plaintiff’s attorney.  The declaration from plaintiff’s counsel’s  office calendar clerk is insufficient.  Also,  as to plaintiff’s assertion of taking a certificate of non-appearance,  plaintiff has not shown evidence of such.   In any event, plaintiff has not shown that plaintiff’s counsel met and  conferred as required by §2025.450(b).  Plaintiff also disingenuously does not  address that defense counsel provided alternative available dates. The motion is thus DENIED. Sanctions Under CCP §2025.450(g)(1), “If a  motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary  sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the  party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with  whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to  the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances  make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” Plaintiff’s request for sanctions  is DENIED. Counsel are to meet and confer as  to available dates given defendant Lee’s health issues. The Court Shall Order the Parties  to Confer within 7 calendar days to Agree upon a Date for the Deposition             The parties are having difficulty establishing  a deposition date.  There appears to be a  lack of proper understanding of the duty of counsel when litigating a  case.  Scheduling should not be so  difficult.  But when it becomes so, the  Court shall mandate proper conduct so that dates are set for discovery.             The parties are ORDERED to meet and  confer in the next 7 days to reach an acceptable agreement scheduling the deposition  of Defendant Eunjin Lee.  The parties  shall find an acceptable date, time and location for the deposition and shall  submit to the Court a written stipulation setting the date, time and location of  the deposition.  The Court is setting a  further status conference on July 26, 2024 at 8:30 to address any issue that  has not otherwise been agreed upon regarding the deposition of Lee.  However, should the parties have submitted an  acceptable Stipulation no later than July 23, 2024 setting the date, time and location  of the Lee Deposition, the status conference shall go off calendar. ORDER 1.       The  motion is DENIED. 2.       Counsel  are to meet and confer in the next 7 days to reach an acceptable agreement scheduling  the deposition of Defendant Eunjin Lee. 3.       Counsel  shall submit to the Court a written stipulation setting the date, time and location  of the deposition. 4.       The  Court is setting a further status conference on July 26, 2024 at 8:30 to  address any issue that has not otherwise been agreed upon regarding the  deposition of Lee.  However, should the  parties have submitted an acceptable Stipulation no later than July 23, 2024 setting  the date, time and location of the Lee Deposition, the status conference shall  go off calendar. 5.       Defendant  is ordered to give notice of ruling.