  Case Number:  24STCV08582    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LORENZA ANN
  GARCIA and JOSE MARIA GARCIA MONTOY, 
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO. INC., a
corporation; and DOES 1 through 10,
inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV08582
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF
  DEFENDANT’S AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO. INC.’S PERSON(S) MOST KNOWLEDGEABLE
  (“PMK”) AND PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS AND REQUEST FOR MANDATORY MONETARY
  SANCTIONS
 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUEST
  FOR PRODUCTION FROM DEFENDANT
 
Date: November 19, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING
PARTIES: Plaintiffs LORENZA ANN GARCIA AND JOSE MARIA GARCIA MONTOY (jointly, “Plaintiffs”)
 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant AMERICAN HONDA MOTOR CO., INC. (“Defendant”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving and
opposition papers.  No reply has been filed.  Any reply was required to have been filed and
served at least five court days prior to the hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)
 
BACKGROUND
             This is an action arising from Plaintiffs’ purchase
of an allegedly defective vehicle.  Plaintiffs
filed a complaint against Defendant alleging (1) violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act breach of express warranty; (2) violation of the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act breach of implied warranty; and (3) violation of Business and Professions
Code § 17200.
 
            On
July 17, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a Motion to Compel Deposition of Defendant’s Person(s)
Most Knowledgeable (“PMK”) and Production of Documents and Request for Mandatory
Monetary Sanctions (the “Deposition Motion”). 
Defendant filed an opposition to the Deposition Motion on November 5,
2024.  No reply has been filed.
 
On September 4,
2024, Plaintiffs filed a Motion to Compel Responses to Request for Production
from Defendant (the “RFPs Motion”). 
Defendant filed an opposition to the RFPs Motion on November 5,
2024.  No reply has been filed.
 
DISCUSSION
Deposition Motion
Any party may obtain discovery by taking
the oral deposition of any person, including any party to the action.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.010.)  Service of a proper deposition notice is
“effective to require any deponent who is a party to the action or an officer,
director, managing agent, or employee of a party to attend and to testify, as
well as to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing for inspection and copying.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.280, subd. (a).)  If, after service of a deposition notice, a
party fails to appear for examination or fails to produce for inspection any
document described in the deposition notice, without having served a valid
objection under section 2025.410, the party noticing the deposition may move
for an order compelling attendance or production. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450,
subd. (a).)
 
            On May
13, 2024, Plaintiffs noticed the deposition of Defendant’s Person(s) Most
Knowledgeable (“PMK”), with Production of Documents for June 25, 2024.  (Declaration of Ezra Ryu in support of
Deposition Motion, ¶ 2.)  Although the
Plaintiffs did not consult with Defendant in setting a date for the deposition
[Declaration of Ariane A. Sadanaga, ¶ 4], the date set was more than six weeks
from the date of the notice.  Over five
weeks after service of the notice and only five days before the deposition
date, Defendant served its objections to Plaintiffs’ deposition notice,
advising that Defendant would not be available and inviting Plaintiffs to contact
counsel for Defendant to reschedule the deposition, but without giving
alternative dates.  (Id., ¶
3.)  
 
On the date set
for the deposition, June 25, 2024, Plaintiffs’ counsel office requested dates
for Defendant’s PMK deposition in late July or August, to which Defendant’s
counsel responded that she would reach out to her client and get back as soon
as her client provided a date.  (Id.,
4.)  Plaintiffs heard nothing about
alternative dates for the deposition, and filed the instant Deposition Motion twenty
days later, on July 15, 2024.  (Id.,
¶ 5.)
 
            Over
two months after the Motion was filed -- on October 2, 2024 --  Defendant’s counsel offered March 27, 2025 for
the deposition to proceed – over ten months after the original notice was
served --and requested that Plaintiffs take the Deposition Motion off calendar.  (Id., ¶ 8.)  On the same day, Plaintiffs’ counsel served
an amended notice of Defendant’s PMK deposition for March 27, 2025.  (Id., ¶ 9; Exh. E.)  On October 10 and 30, 2024, Defendant sent
emails to Plaintiffs’ counsel requesting that the Deposition Motion be taken
off calendar, but Plaintiffs’ counsel did not do so.  (Id., ¶¶ 10, 12.)
 
            Under
Code of Civil Procedure Section 2025.450(a), a party’s attendance at a
deposition
may only be compelled if (1) the party fails to
appear for or proceed with the examination, and (2) the party did not serve a
valid objection under section 2025.410.  Here,
Defendant has not refused to appear for or proceed with the deposition of its
corporate witness as contemplated by California Code of Civil Procedure Section
2025.450(a).  (Sadanaga Decl., ¶¶2-12).  Rather, Defendant timely objected to each of
Plaintiffs’ unilateral deposition notice and invited counsel for Plaintiffs to
contact Defendant to schedule the deposition on a mutually convenient date.  (Id., ¶¶ 3-4.)  Furthermore, Defendant has offered March 27, 2025
for the deposition of Defendant’s PMK to proceed.  In fact, Plaintiffs accepted
this date and served an amended notice of Defendant’s PMK deposition.  (Id., ¶ 9, Exh. E.)  
 
            In their
Deposition Motion, Plaintiffs seek an order compelling Defendant’s PMK witness
deposition within 10 calendar days from the entry of the Court’s Order on this
Motion. There is,
however, no basis for Plaintiffs’ Deposition Motion at this time, considering
that Plaintiffs have already agreed to a March 27, 2025 deposition date.  The Court also notes that there is no urgency
for this deposition given that trial is in April 2026.  
 
In opposing the
motion, Defendant seeks imposition of sanctions against Plaintiffs and their counsel.
 California Code of Civil Procedure
section 2023.010 states: “Misuses of the discovery process include…[m]aking or
opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a motion to
compel or to limit discovery.”  (CCP, § 2023.010(h).)  
 
For the reasons
set forth above, the Court finds that Plaintiffs acted with substantial
justification in filing the Deposition Motion, and that there are circumstances
that would make the imposition of sanctions unjust.  Therefore, the Court DENIES Defendant’s
request for monetary sanctions to be assessed against Plaintiffs for the cost
of opposing the Deposition Motion. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court DENIES Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel. 
 
RFPs
Motion
Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 provides that a
party may bring a motion to compel responses to a request for production of
documents, where the responding party failed to serve a timely response.  Unless otherwise agreed, the responding party
is required to serve responses within 30 days after service of the discovery
demand for production documents.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.260(a).)  If the
responding party fails to serve a timely response, the party “waives any
objection to the demand, including one based on privilege or on the protection
for work product . . .”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.300(a).)
 
            The facts underlying the RFPs Motion
are unclear, to say the least.  First,
the parties refer to the RFPs as having been signed and served on different
dates (May 10, 2024 for Plaintiffs - Declaration of Ezra Ryu in Support of
Motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production (“Ryu Decl.”), ¶ 3 and
Exhibit “A,” p. 18 and May 13, 2024 for Defendant - Declaration of Ariane A.
Sadanaga in Support of Defendant’s Opposition to the RFPs Motion (“Sadanaga RFP
Decl.”), ¶ 3, Exh. “A,” p. 18).  The
Court notes that the text of the two RFPs is identical – and the
signature appearing on page 18 is absolutely identical, indicating either that
it was electronically signed (although it does not appear to be so) or stamped
or cut-and-pasted to the document(s). 
Neither of the documents submitted by the parties has a proof of service
attached.  Apparently, therefore, either
two separate RFPs were served, or one party is mistaken about the document(s) served
or someone has created a false document. 
The Court will discuss these alternatives with counsel at the
hearing on the RFPs Motion.
 
The next set of facts on which the parties’
versions differ is in whether extensions were requested by Defendant or given by
Plaintiffs.  According to Plaintiffs,
they propounded the RFPs on May 10, 2024, such that Defendant’s statutory
deadline to respond was June 11, 2024, but Defendant failed to provide any written
responses or to produce any documents in response to the RFPs by the statutory deadline.  (Ryu Decl., ¶ 4.)  Plaintiffs’ counsel then attests that “[o]n
July 29, 2024, in an attempt to avoid filing potentially unnecessary motion
[sic] Plaintiffs’ counsel requested from Defendant’s counsel that Defendant
provide all responses and produce responsive documents to RDP1.” (Id. at
¶ 5.)  Plaintiffs’ counsel attests that “Defendant’s
counsel did not respond to this request.” 
(Id.)  Plaintiffs’ counsel
then attests that “[o]n August 8, 2024, a new handling attorney on this matter,
Ariane Sadanaga, assumed the meet and confer attempts.  However, Ms. Sadanaga refused to engage in
any communication regarding RFP1 and through inaction further failed to provide
responses and produce documents to RFP1.”  (Id. at ¶ 6.)   On the basis of this statement of facts,
Plaintiffs seek an order compelling Defendant to provide responses to the RFPs,
without objections, and all responsive documents requested therein. 
            In opposition, Defendant provides a
completely different set of facts.  First,
Defendant’s counsel’s declaration stating that the RFPs were served, not on
June 10, but on June 12, 2024, and that counsel’s office requested a 30-day
extension to respond to Plaintiffs’ discovery requests by email on June 12,
2024 (Sadanaga RFP Decl., ¶ 4 and Exh. “B”.)  Plaintiffs’ counsel confirmed a two-week
extension on June 12, 2024, with Defendant’s new deadline to respond to
Plaintiffs’ discovery requests as June 28, 2024.  (Id., ¶5 and Exh. “C.”)  Defendant’s counsel declares that on June 28,
2024, Defendant served its responses to Plaintiffs’ discovery requests, however,
the “Proof of Service” was mistakenly saved as the “Request for Production of Documents,
Set One”, and that as a result, the Proof of Service was served twice.  (Id., ¶ 6.)  Defendant’s counsel further attests that on
October 22, 2024, she had a telephone call with Plaintiffs’ counsel, at which
time, she was advised of the mistake of serving the Proof of Service twice
under the title “Request for Production of Documents, Set One.”  (Id., ¶ 11.)  On the same day, Defendant served its
verified responses to the RFPs, and non-confidential document production, with
the verification dated June 28, 2024.  (Id.,
¶ 12; Exh. K.)
 
Accordingly, since Defendant has now
served its responses, the RFPs Motion is MOOT. 

 
Relief
from Waiver of Objections
The Court is puzzled by Defendant’s request
that the Court relieve it from waiver of objections under Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 which reads, in relevant part: 
 
The
court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its determination
that both of the following conditions are satisfied: 
 
1.             
The party has subsequently served a
response that is in substantial compliance with Sections 2031.210, 2031.220,
2031.230, 2031.240, and 2031.280. 
 
(2)
The party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect. 
 
(Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.300(a).)
 
The Court’s confusion is also based upon
the parties’ differing and unclear statements of the facts underlying the RFP
Motion.  For example, Plaintiffs filed no
reply to the opposition and to the Sadanaga RFP Declaration’s vastly different
version of the facts presented in the Ryu Declaration regarding the service of
documents and the granting of an extension. 
Moreover, the Sadanaga RFP Declaration itself is confusing – was the
verified response to the RFPs actually served on Plaintiffs on June 28, albeit
under a different file name?  Or was it
not served and only a Proof of Service served on that date.  Under either scenario, why does Plaintiffs
not acknowledge the receipt of something on June 28, 2026?  
 
According to Defendant’s version of the
events underlying the RFP Motion, Plaintiffs granted an extension to Defendant
to respond to the RFPs to and including June 28, 2024 and a responsive document
was served on that date.  As Plaintiffs
have not contradicted this statement of the facts, the Court will accept it for
the purpose of this RFPs Motion.