 Case Number:  24STCV13209    Hearing Date:   November 19, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



Jeffrey Soo Hoo,
  Successor Trustee To The Soo Hoo Family Living Trust; 
Jeffrey Soo Hoo, an individual; Glenn
  Soo Hoo, an individual, 
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
Linda Susan Dang, an individual, aka
Linda Soo Hoo, an individual; Michael
Dang, an individual; all persons
  unknown,
claiming any legal or equitable right,
  title,
estate, lien, or interest in the
  property
described in the Complaint adverse to
Plaintiff’s title, or any cloud on
  Plaintiff’s
title thereto; and DOES 1 to 20
  inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.           
 
                    


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV13209
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT
 
Date: November 19, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
Linda Susan Dang, aka Linda Soo Hoo (“Linda”)[1]
and Michael Dang (jointly, “Defendants”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: None
 
            The Court has considered the moving
papers.  No opposition has been
filed.  Any opposition was required to
have been filed and served at least nine court days prior to the hearing.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).)
 
BACKGROUND
             This is a dispute between the parties
concerning their rights and duties arising from a family living trust (“Trust”).  On May 28, 2024, Plaintiffs Jeffrey Soo Hoo
(“Jeffrey”), Glenn Soo Hoo (“Glenn”) and Jeffrey Soo Hoo, Successor Trustee to The
Soo Hoo Family Living Trust (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint (“Complaint”)
asserting the following causes of action: (1) Quiet Title; (2) Cancellation of
Instrument; (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (4) Intentional Misrepresentation -
Fraud; (5) Conversion; (6) Constructive Trust; and (7) Declaratory Relief.  
 
            On August 9, 2024, Defendants filed the instant Demurrer to Complaint
(“Demurrer”) on the grounds that Plaintiffs lack standing to pursue the allegations
contained in the Complaint, and that the Probate Court has exclusive
jurisdiction over the allegations contained in the complaint pursuant to Probate
Code §17200.  The Demurrer is unopposed.
 
MEET AND CONFER 
             The meet and confer requirement has been met.
 
DISCUSSION
“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the
allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis
v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A demurrer can be
used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under
attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th
968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations,
matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth
of their contents).)  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts
pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not
assume the truth of conclusions of law.  (Aubry
v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)         
  
CCP 430.10 provides that “[t]he party against whom a
complaint or cross-complaint has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer
as provided in Section 430.30, to the pleading on any one or more of the
following grounds: (a) The court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the
cause of action alleged in the pleading…” 
(CCP, § 430.10(a).)
 
Court Lacks Jurisdiction
            Per Probate Code §17000(a), “[t]he
superior court having jurisdiction over the trust pursuant to this part has
exclusive jurisdiction of proceedings concerning the internal affairs of
trusts.”  Prob. C. §17000(a).  “Exclusive jurisdiction” under section
17000 “refers only to whether a matter should be heard in a superior court’s
probate department or in another department of that same superior court.” 
(Capra v. Capra (2020) 58 Cal.App.5th 1072, 1084.) 
“It is intended that the department of the superior court that customarily
deals with probate matters will exercise the exclusive jurisdiction relating to
internal trust affairs provided by subdivision (a).”  (Law Revision
Commission Comments, Prob. Code, § 17000; see also Saks v. Damon Raike &
Co. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 419, 429-430.)
 
The
Probate Department of a superior court, therefore, has exclusive jurisdiction
of proceedings concerning the internal affairs of trust, as well as concurrent
jurisdiction over the following related matters: “(1) Actions and proceedings
to determine the existence of trust.  (2) Actions or proceedings by or
against creditors or debtors of trusts.  (3) Other actions and proceedings
involving trustees and third persons.”  (Prob.
C., § 17000 subds. (a) and (b).)
 
On
the face of the Complaint, this Court “has no jurisdiction of the subject to
the cause of action alleged in the pleading.”  (CCP, § 430.10(a).)  The
Complaint makes reference to certain allegations regarding Linda’s exercise of
undue influence over Walter Soo Hoo (the deceased father of Jeffrey, Glenn and
Linda) during the end stages of his life to obtain Trust properties to which
she was not entitled (Complaint, ¶¶ 15-20.) 
The Complaint also contains allegations regarding succession to the role
of trustee based on Trust terms and conditions, the purported resignation by
Eileen Soo Hoo (the wife of Walter) and acceptance by Jeffrey as trustee (Id.,
¶¶ 22-25.)  It is then alleged that Linda
purportedly made fraudulent conveyances of assets belonging to the Trust
without authority under the Trust.  (Id.,
¶¶ 26-27.)  Certain causes of action asserted
under the Complaint revolve around “internal affairs” of the trust – cancellation
of instrument for undue influence and quiet title, accounting, self-dealing and
breach of duty, conversion and constructive trust.   In addition, Plaintiffs’ standing to pursue
their claims under the Trust also entails an examination of the internal
affairs of the Trust, i.e., whether they can rightfully assert claims on
behalf of the Trust.
 
The
Probate Code sets forth a nonexclusive list of “internal affair” proceedings
over which the probate court has exclusive jurisdiction (Prob.C., § 17200(b).)  Among those that apply, or may apply, to
Plaintiffs’ Complaint are:
 
(1)  Determining
questions of construction of a trust instrument.
(2)  Determining
the existence or nonexistence of any immunity, power, privilege, duty, or
right.
xxx
(4)  Ascertaining
beneficiaries and determining to whom property shall pass…
(5)  Settling
the accounts and passing upon the acts of the trustee, including the exercise
of discretionary powers.
(6)  Instructing
the trustee.
(7)  Compelling
the trustee to… (B) Provide information about the trust… (C) Account to the
beneficiary…
(8)  Granting
powers to the trustee.
xxx
(10) Appointing or removing a
trustee.
(11) Accepting the resignation
of a trustee.
(12) Compelling redress of a
breach of the trust by any available remedy.
 
(Prob. C., §
17200.)
 
Thus,
this proceeding “concerns” the “internal affairs” of the Trust as defined under
Probate Code §17200(b).  Therefore,
Plaintiffs are required to file a petition with the Probate Court for a
determination of the issues involving “internal affairs” of the Trust.
            
RULING
Accordingly,
the Demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.  The Court will stay the entry of an order for
dismissal for 60 days to allow Plaintiffs to file the appropriate petition in
the probate court.  A Status Conference
Re: Entry of Judgment of Dismissal is scheduled for January 21, 2025 at 08:30
AM in this department.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 19th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 






