 Case Number:  23STCV23861    Hearing Date:   August 2, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendant Randolf L.
Turrow’s Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint
            Defendant
Randolf L. Turrow demurs to plaintiffs George Gamble and Nancy Gamble’s first,
second, third, fifth, and ninth causes of action.  
Request for Judicial Notice
            With
his reply brief, Turrow requests judicial notice of a prior declaration which attests
to the authenticity of a copy of a contract between non-party Centurion
Project, Inc. and defendants Turrow and Featurepro, Inc.  As a court record, the exhibit is subject to
judicial notice under Evidence Code section 452(c), but only for its existence
and legal effects—not the truth of the matters asserted therein.  (Ross v. Creel Printing & Publishing
Co. (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 736, 743; Sosinsky v. Grant (1992) 6
Cal.App.4th 1548, 1569.)  The court
cannot rely on such extrinsic evidence on a demurrer.  Turrow’s request for judicial notice is denied.
Purported Contract
            Turrow
contends all claims against him are founded upon a contract, so plaintiffs’
complaint must attach the contract or allege its terms.  (See Miles v. Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236
Cal.App.4th 394, 402.)  The second amended complaint, however,
alleges only tort claims.  It does not
assert any claim for breach of contract. 
The contract Turrow relies on (RJN, Ex. A) may be relevant at a future
stage of this action, but the court cannot consider it on demurrer.  
Specificity of Fraud Claims
            Plaintiffs
do not allege sufficient facts for the first cause of action for promissory
fraud, the second cause of action for fraudulent concealment, or the third
cause of action for intentional misrepresentation.  These causes of action are forms of fraud, which
“must
be pled specifically” by “pleading facts which show how, when,
where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645, internal quotes omitted.) 

            Plaintiffs do not allege one of the
specific matters required: when the representations were tendered.  The second amended complaint alleges, “Defendant
Turrow was introduced to Plaintiffs by Defendant Collins, for the purpose of
Defendant Turrow soliciting Plaintiffs to provide cash financing for the
production of a motion picture project.” 
(¶ 15.)  “Defendant Turrow
contacted Plaintiffs by phone to request that Plaintiffs agree to provide cash
financing for the production of the Film (the ‘Financing Request Call’).”  (¶ 16.) 
It further alleges Turrow made various representations during “the
Financing Request Call” but concealed some material facts.  (¶¶ 17-19.) 
The second amended complaint never alleges even the year that any event
occurred.  Due to that omission, the
second amended complaint does not meet the standard for pleading fraud with
particularity.
Disposition
            Defendant
Randolf L. Turrow’s demurrers to plaintiffs’ first, second, and third causes of
action are sustained with 15 days’ leave to amend.  Defendant Randolf L. Turrow’s demurrers to plaintiffs’
fifth and ninth causes of action are overruled.