  Case Number:  23GDCV02562    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  D TENTATIVE RULINGCalendar:     3 Date:          12/13/2024  Case No:     23 GDCV02562   Trial Date: 12/22/2025 Case Name: Keshishyan v. AftendelianMOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO INTERROGATORIES Moving Party:  Plaintiff Arpik Keshishyan     Responding Party: Defendant Sophia Aftandelian  (No Opposition) RELIEF REQUESTED:Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One  CHRONOLOGYDate Discovery served :     January 25, 2024, mail Extensions to Respond to: July 12, 2024 (without obj.)  Date Responses served:  NO RESPONSES SERVED Date Motion served:     August 19, 2024     Timely OPPOSITION:  No opposition.   ANALYSIS:Under CCP § 2030.290, “If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response,” that party “waives any right to exercise the option to produce writings...as well as any objection to the interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product...”  Under subdivision (b), “The party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories.”  In this case, interrogatories have been directed to defendant and defendant has failed to serve timely responses.  Defendant has accordingly waived the right to exercise the option to produce, as well as all objections.  Plaintiff has appropriately moved for an order to compel responses.  The court will grant the motion and order defendant to serve verified responses, without objection.   SanctionsWith respect to interrogatories, under CCP § 2030.290(c), “The court shall impose a monetary sanction… against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to interrogatories, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.”  CCP § 2023.010 provides that misuse of the discovery process includes, “(d) Failing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.”  Where there has been such conduct, under CCP § 2023.030(a), “The court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct....If a monetary sanction is authorized” by the statute, “ the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that the other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” CCP § 2023.030(a).  Under CRC Rule 3.1348(a):“The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn, or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed.”The burden is on the party subject to sanctions to show substantial justification or injustice.  Mattco Forge, Inc. v. Arthur Young & Co. (1990, 2nd Dist.) 223 Cal.App.3d 1429, 1436.  In this case, the motion will be granted, and defendant has failed to respond to an authorized method of discovery and made the motion necessary.  Plaintiff has submitted evidence showing that plaintiff has  incurred expenses as a result of the conduct.  Since the motion is unopposed, there is no evidence that the imposition of sanctions would be unjust.  Sanctions will be awarded.  Plaintiff requests $2,560, which seems a bit high for a motion of this nature at a $500 per hour billing rate.  One hour is sought to prepare a reply, when there is no opposition, so this time will be reduced.  Two hours are sought to travel to and appear at the hearing, when a remote appearance is an option. The time will be reduced accordingly as follows: no attorney hours for drafting a reply and one hour only attending the hearing remotely for total attorney time of 3 hours at $500.00 for total attorney fees of $1,500.       RULING:[No opposition]Plaintiff Arpik Keshishyan’s UNOPPOSED Motion to Compel Responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One to Defendant Sofia Aftandelian is GRANTED.  Defendant Sofia Aftandelian is ordered to serve verified responses to Form Interrogatories—General, Set No. One without objection, within ten days.  Monetary sanctions requested by moving party:  Utilizing a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs incurred for the work performed in connection with the pending motion is $1,500.00 ( 3 hours @ $500/hour) [5 hours requested] plus $60 in filing fees [Amount Requested $2,560], which sum is to be awarded in favor of plaintiff Arpik Keshishyan and against defendant Sophia Aftandelian and defendant’s attorney of record, jointly and severally, payable within 30 days.  CCP sections 2030.290(c), 2023.010(d), 2023.030(a) and CRC Rule 3.1348(a).Counsel for moving party is ordered to prepare an order for sanctions and submit it on eCourt by noon today in accordance with this order. DEPARTMENT D IS CONTINUING TO CONDUCT AND ENCOURAGE AUDIO OR VIDEO APPEARANCESPlease make arrangement in advance if you wish to appear via LACourtConnect by visiting www.lacourt.org to schedule a remote appearance.  Please note that LACourtConnect offers free audio and video appearances.  However, ADVANCE REGISTRATION IS REQUIRED. If no appearance is set up through LACourtConnect, or no appearance is otherwise made, then the Court will assume the parties are submitting on the tentative. 