 Case Number:  22CHCV00276    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 5-6-24
Case #22CHCV00276 , Iris Arnold, et al. vs. Brian Bauer, et
al.
Trial Date: 11-4-24
 
MOTIONS PURSUANT TO CODE OF CIVIL PROCEDURE SECTION
2031.285(d)(1) FOR ORDER OVERRULING CLAIM OF PRIVILEGE
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
Granada Hills Charter
RESPONDING
PARTY: Plaintiff Angela Karapetyan
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
An order
overruling Plaintiff’s claim of privilege for emails between her and her brother,
an attorney
 
RULING:
Motion is granted.
 
SUMMARY OF
ACTION
In this case,
the Plaintiffs, including Plaintiff Angela Karapetyan (Angela), were teachers
and other employees at Defendant Granada Hills Charter (GHC). Plaintiffs were
terminated because they refused to get the COVID-19 vaccine as required by
LAUSD. Angela, in refusing to get the vaccine, claimed a religious exemption.
After Plaintiffs were terminated, they filed this case on April 22, 2022.
 
From September
9, 2021, through September 12, 2021, Angela sent her brother, attorney Karo
Karapetyan, a series of emails on her work Google account. During discovery,
Angela asserted privilege for these emails, claiming that they were protected
by the attorney-client privilege. GHC filed this motion to overrule her claim
of privilege for these emails. 
 
GHC argues in
its motion that Angela had no expectation of privacy in her communications with
her brother on the Google Account her employer provided for her. Next, GHC
argues that Angela did not retain her brother for legal services. Finally, GHC
argues that Angela bears the burden of establishing that the challenged
documents, including the attachments, were privileged communications.
 
Angela argues
in her opposition that the emails were privileged, and she did not waive that
privilege. She also provides evidence that she had a pro bono retainer
agreement with her brother at the time she was emailing him. Angela also argues
that she would still have a privacy interest in her emails, even if they were
on her work account.
 
GHC argues in
its reply that the opposition confirms each of the facts necessary to conclude
there is no privilege. GHC also argues that Plaintiff has not met her burden of
establishing that the attachments to the emails were privileged communications.
 
Defendant GHC’s
Evidentiary Objections:
            
Declaration
of Scott J. Street:
            Sustained: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8,
9, 10, 11, 12, 13
            Overruled: None
 
            Declaration of Karo Karapetyan
            Sustained: 1, 2, 3
            Overruled: None
 
ANALYSIS
Under CCP §
2031.285(d)(1), a party in possession of electronically stored information that
is later subject to a claim of privilege “may seek a determination of the claim
from the court by making a motion within 30 days of receiving the claim and
presenting the information to the court conditionally under seal.” Until the
motion is resolved by the court, the party in possession of the information
claimed to be privileged shall keep the information confidential and is
precluded from using the information in any manner. (CCP § 2031.285(d)(2).)
 
GHC received a
letter from Karo Karapetyan claiming privilege relating to the emails on
February 29, 2024. This motion was filed on March 15, 2024.
 
First, the
Court will address GHC’s argument that Angela did not retain her brother as
counsel. In support of her opposition, Angela produced a pro bono retainer
agreement signed on September 1, 2021, between her and brother. (K. Karapetyan
Decl., Ex. A.) The representation was limited to helping with the preparation
of the religious exemption letter and providing employment law advice on the
matter. (Id.) It excluded representation for litigation or other legal
matters. (Id.) GHC does not address the retainer agreement in its reply,
so it appears that GHC concedes that Angela’s brother did, in fact, have an
attorney-client relationship with her at the time the emails were exchanged.
 
The next issue
then is whether Angela had an expectation of privacy in her work emails. The
case that is relevant to this issue is Holmes v. Petrovich Development Co.,
LLC (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 1047. In that case, the Court of Appeal affirmed
the trial court’s finding that the emails sent using the employer’s email were
not private and therefore were not protected by the attorney-client privilege. 
 
The Court of
Appeal in Holmes found that an electronic communication is not
privileged when “(1) when the electronic means used belongs to the defendant;
(2) the defendant has advised the plaintiff that communications using
electronic means are not private, may be monitored, and may be used only for
business purposes; and (3) the plaintiff is aware of and agrees to these
conditions. A communication under these circumstances is not a ‘confidential
communication between client and lawyer’ within the meaning of section 952
because it is not transmitted by a means which so far as the client is aware,
discloses the information to no third persons other than those who are present
to further the interest of the client in the consultation…” (Id. at
1068.)
 
The Court of
Appeal held that emails sent under these circumstances were not “confidential
communication[s] between client and lawyer” because “Holmes used her employer’s
company e-mail account after being warned that it was to be used only for
company business, that e-mails were not private, and that the company would
randomly and periodically monitor its technology resources to ensure compliance
with the policy.” (Id. at 1068-69.)
 
GHC argues that
Holmes applies in this case because the Google account used by Angela
belonged to GHC; GHC had advised employees in the employee handbook that GHC
had the authority to monitor email accounts and that employees cannot except
that anything sent or received on those email accounts would be private
(Bensinger Decl., Ex. A, Appendix C); and Angela had acknowledged in writing
that she had read and understood GHC’s handbook.
 
The Privacy
Policy in the Handbook reads in relevant part:
“No Expectation of Privacy: GHC has
the authority to monitor all Accounts, including email, files, documents,
internet activity, and other materials transmitted, received, or created by the
User. Users cannot expect that anything created, stored, set or received using
the GHC network will be private. Files and email are continuously archived by
GHC; therefore, their contents will still be available even though the User has
deleted them. Files, email, and/or the history of websites a User has visited
by be read by GHC at any time…All such materials are the property of GHC. Users
do not have any right or expectation of privacy regarding such materials.” (Bensinger
Decl., Ex. A, Appendix C.)
 
Angela argues
in her opposition that this case is different from Holmes in several
ways: (1) Angela used a personal device, not a work computer, to send the
emails; (2) Angela claims that she did not receive express advice about the
privacy policy; (3) Angela claims that she had not signed the handbook for the
2021-22 school year when the emails were sent; (4) she argues that there is no
evidence that GHC monitored employees’ emails before now; (5) she did not yet
have a dispute when she contacted her brother; and (6) her brother had a
confidentiality notice on his emails. (Opposition at p. 6.)
 
For Angela’s argument
regarding work versus personal device, that was not a deciding factor in Holmes,
where the issue was that the plaintiff had used her employer’s email account
for communications with her lawyer, not that the plaintiff had used a work
device. (Holmes, 191 Cal.App.4th at 1068-1069.) The device was only one
factor in the Holmes analysis and was not dispositive. Additionally, it
makes no sense that the employer’s stated policy and warnings concerning non-confidentiality
exist only when the employer’s device is used, when as in most cases, access to
the employer’s account can be gained from anywhere on multiple devices.
 
While GHC has
not presented evidence that Angela has signed the Employee Handbook
acknowledgement form for the 2021-22 school year, they have provided evidence
that Angela understood that she should not be using the school email for these
communications. She had sent an email on her work email to a colleague on
August 12, 2021, asking if they could text because she didn’t “want to use
school email.” (Crochetiere Decl., Ex. A.) On the same day she emailed her
brother, September 9, 2021, Angela sent an email to someone on her work email
saying “send me your personal email please. Or email me at [her personal email
address].” (Crochetiere Decl., Ex. B.) GHC also presented the Staff Handbook
Acknowledgement and Agreement from the 2019-2020 school year, which Angela had
signed. (Bensinger Decl., Ex. B.) In addition to all of this evidence, nowhere does
Angela state that she was no longer aware of the policy just because she had
not signed the 2021-22 acknowledgment form yet.
 
At the very
least, it appears that Angela did not have an expectation of privacy in her
work email around the time she was exchanging emails with her brother through
that account. Furthermore, GHC has produced evidence that the relevant language
in the Handbook was the same in every version after 2019, and she had signed an
acknowledgement and agreement for that year. (Bensinger Decl., ¶¶ 6 and 7, Ex.
B.) 
 
Whether GHC had
previously monitored employees’ emails before now is not particularly relevant,
since they clearly had a policy that they did so. Additionally, GHC has
demonstrated that they use several programs to monitor employees’ emails and
internet usage, including Google Vault. (Bensinger Decl., ¶ 5.)
 
Next, it does
not matter that Angela’s brother had a confidentiality notice at the end of his
emails, as it was Angela who initiated the communication. Also, the authority
that Angela cites does not support her contention that the confidentiality
notice would protect the communications through the work email.
 
Finally,
whether GHC had a dispute with Angela at the time the emails were sent makes no
difference to whether she had an expectation of privacy in her emails. This
argument also makes little sense because it would seem that she would have less
of an expectation of privacy if there were no dispute.
 
The last issue
is whether Angela has established that the emails or their attachments were
privileged communications. Sending a copy of an otherwise non-privileged
document to an attorney does not render the document privileged. (Alpha Beta
Co. v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 818, 825 (“It is also
established that a communication which was not privileged to begin with may not
be made so by subsequent delivery to the attorney.”); Green & Shinee v.
Superior Court (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 532, 536-37 (“Nevertheless, the
privilege does not cover every document turned over to an attorney by the
client … The person claiming the attorney -client privilege must establish that
the evidence sought to be protected falls within the statutory terms.”).)
 
GHC argues that
the document attached to Angela’s September 9 email is a document either found
on the internet or provided to Angela by someone else. The document can be
edited or personalized. The attachments to the subsequent emails are
modifications of this document. Angela has not established that this document
would be privileged.
 
Based on the
foregoing, the Court finds that there is no expectation of privacy in emails
sent or received by Angela through her work email account. Accordingly, GHC’s
motion for an order overruling her claim of privilege in the emails is granted.
 
Moving party to
give notice.
 
 