..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 22BBCV00433
Plaintiff's Name: j.p., N.B
Defendant's Name: Burbank Unified School District, Rex Bullington
People-Names: j.p., N.B, Cynthia Phillips, Rex Bullington
Company-Names: Burbank Unified School District
Places: Los Angeles, North Central District
Dates: June 13, 2022, May 31, 2024, June 14, 2024, June 21, 2024, June 28, 2024
Events: sexual abuse, sexual assault, molestation, negligence, cover-up
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: Plaintiff seeks to compel Defendant to produce further responses to Request for Production (RPD) No. 30
Facts: Plaintiff alleges that Defendant employed Rex Bullington as a high school teacher who sexually abused, assaulted, and molested students, and that Defendant did not take adequate measures to prevent or respond to these incidents
Disputes: Plaintiff disputes Defendant's objections to the RPD, arguing that the request is not overly broad and that Defendant should produce all relevant documents
Acts: Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Defendant's further responses to RPD No. 30; Defendant filed an opposition brief and Plaintiff filed a reply brief
Agreements: None mentioned
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure (CCP) ยง 2031.240, 5th Amendment
Statutes: 20 U.S.C. ยง 1232g, Wilson v. United States, Avant! Corp. v. Superior Court
Roles: Judge John Kralik, Plaintiff j.p., Plaintiff N.B, Defendant Burbank Unified School District, Rex Bullington
Significant Statements: "As currently presented to the Court, RPD No. 30 is overbroad in time and scope... Pending further meet and confer efforts, Plaintiff should limit the time frame of this RPD request to an appropriate amount of time..."
```

English-text summary of the judge's tentative ruling:

The judge has tentatively ruled on Plaintiff j.p.'s motion to compel Defendant Burbank Unified School District's further responses to Request for Production (RPD) No. 30. The RPD seeks all electronic communications concerning Rex Bullington, including email and instant messaging communications among BUSD's employees. The judge has denied the motion as currently worded, finding that it is overbroad in time and scope. The judge has ordered Plaintiff and Defendant to continue meeting and conferring to limit the scope of the RPD and has given Plaintiff 30 days to re-propound the RPD with appropriate limitations. The judge has also ordered Defendant to respond to the amended RPD within 30 days of service of the request. No sanctions will be awarded at this time.
