 Case Number:  EC059681    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
 
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District 
Department B
 



 
national
  collegiate student loan trust 2006-4,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
bianca medina, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.:  EC059681
 
  Hearing Date:  June 5, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
claim of exemption



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations and Relevant Background  
Plaintiff National Collegiate Student Loan
Trust 2006-4 (“Plaintiff”) alleges that it entered into a written contract with
Defendants Bianca Medina and Alejandro Pimentel on September 18, 2006.  Plaintiff agreed to loan money to Defendants
for the financing of education expenses. 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendants breached the agreement by failing to
make payments on the contract as agreed. 
The outstanding principal amount is $40,093.01. The complaint, filed
November 13, 2012, alleges causes of action for: (1) breach of contract; and
(2) common counts. 
On July 25, 2013, judgment was entered by
default against Defendants in the amount of $40,768.01.   
On October 28, 2022, a Notice of Renewal
of Judgment was filed showing that the renewal extended the period of
enforceability of the judgment by 10 years from the application’s filing
date.  
On July 6, 2018, Plaintiff filed a Notice
of Hearing on Claim of Exemption, to the levying officer, Los Angeles
Sheriff.  The Notice identifies Alejandro
Pimentel as the judgment debtor.  Plaintiff
filed a Notice of Opposition to the Claim of Exemption, arguing that the
earnings claimed as exempt are not exempt. 
On July 27, 2018, Judge Benny C. Osorio (retired) denied the claim of
exemption. 
B.    
Matter on Calendar 
On May 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Notice
of Hearing on Claim of Exemption, to the levying officer, Robert G Luna
(Sheriff’s Office).  The Notice
identifies Bianca Medina (“Defendant”) as the judgment debtor.  Concurrently, Plaintiff filed a Notice of
Opposition to the Claim of Exemption, arguing that the earnings claimed as
exempt by Defendant are not exempt.  
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff opposes Defendant’s claim of
exemption, which is set for June 28, 2024. 
In support of its opposition, Plaintiff provides the declaration of its
counsel Nathalia A. Aguirre.  Ms. Aguirre
states that Defendant has stated that the funds she claims to exempt are needed
to support herself, her 2 children, and her spouse, but Defendant has not cited
the CCP code that exempts the funds, she has not stated the ages of her
children, and she has not clarified whether they are dependents or contributors
to the household income.  (Aguirre Decl.,
¶5.)  Ms. Aguirre states that Defendant
has indicated her monthly expenses are $5,465.35, which includes $200 for
clothing, $300 for entertainment, and $100 for laundry and cleaning, but that
her monthly income amounts to $4,108.64 and Defendant has not stated her
spouse’s contribution to household expenses. 
(Id., ¶6.)  Counsel also
states that Defendant’s financial statement does not have sufficient
information as to her inability to pay the underlying judgment; rather, her
ability to make monthly car payments contradicts her claim that she is unable
to pay the judgment debt.  (Id.,
¶7.)  Ms. Aguirre states that the total
amount due is $83,732.27 and that Defendant has not contacted counsel’s office
to attempt to set up a payment plan or settle the amount due.  (Id., ¶8.)  
“Except as otherwise provided by statute, property
that has been levied upon may be claimed to be exempt as provided in this
article.”  (CCP § 703.510.)  A claimant may make a claim of exemption by following
the procedure in CCP § 703.520.  
            CCP
§ 703.580 provides: 
(a) The claim of
exemption and notice of opposition to the claim of exemption constitute the
pleadings, subject to the power of the court to permit amendments in the
interest of justice.
(b) At a hearing
under this section, the exemption claimant has the burden of proof.
(c) The claim of
exemption is deemed controverted by the notice of opposition to the claim of
exemption and both shall be received in evidence. If no other evidence is
offered, the court, if satisfied that sufficient facts are shown by the claim
of exemption (including the financial statement if one is required) and the
notice of opposition, may make its determination thereon. If not satisfied, the
court shall order the hearing continued for the production of other evidence,
oral or documentary.
(d) At the
conclusion of the hearing, the court shall determine by order whether or not
the property is exempt in whole or in part. Subject to Section 703.600, the
order is determinative of the right of the judgment creditor to apply the
property to the satisfaction of the judgment. No findings are required in a
proceeding under this section.
(e) The court
clerk shall promptly transmit a certified copy of the order to the levying
officer. Subject to Section 703.610, the levying officer shall, in compliance
with the order, release the property or apply the property to the satisfaction
of the money judgment.
(f)
Unless otherwise ordered by the court, if an exemption is not determined within
the time provided by Section 703.570, the property claimed to be exempt shall
be released.
(CCP
§ 703.580.)
The Court is not in receipt of Defendant
Medina’s claim of exemption for the Court to ascertain whether the claim of
exemption is valid. 
According to section 703.580, at the
hearing, the exemption claimant/Defendant Medina has the burden of proof that she
is entitled to a claim of exemption.  Thus, the parties are ordered to attend the
hearing on the claim of exemption so that the Court may determine the amount of
the exemption, if any. 
 
 
DATED:  June 28, 2024                                                         ___________________________
John
J. Kralik
                                                                                          Judge of the Superior Court