 Case Number:  22BBCV00433    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  NCB Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
j.p.,
  a minor, by and through his guardian ad litem CYNTHIA PHILLIPS, N.B, an
  individual,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
burbank
  unified school district, et
  al.,
  
                        Defendants.


 
  Case No.: 
  22BBCV00433
 
  Hearing Date:  June 28, 2024
 
[TENTATIVE] order RE:
motion to compel further responses 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
      Allegations
Plaintiffs J.P. (a minor) and N.B (an
individual) allege that Defendant Burbank Unified School District (“BUSD”)
employed Defendant Rex Bullington (“Mr. Bullington”) as a high school
teacher.  Plaintiffs allege that Mr.
Bullington sexually abused, assaulted, battered, and molested students.  Plaintiffs allege that Mr. Bullington molested
N.B. on two separate occasions between 2000 to 2004.  They also allege that J.P. was repeatedly
molested from September 2019 to March 2020. 
Plaintiffs allege that BUSD did nothing to remove Mr. Bullington from
students or to warn students and parents of the danger he posed. 
            The complaint, filed June 13, 2022,
alleges causes of action for: (1) sexual battery by J.P. and N.B. against Mr.
Bullington; (2) sexual assault by J.P. against Mr. Bullington; (3) cover up of
childhood sexual assault by J.P. and N.B. against all Defendants; (4)
negligence by J.P. and N.B. against BUSD; (5) negligent supervision by J.P. and
N.B. against BUSD; (6) negligent hiring and retention by J.P. and N.B. against
BUSD; (7) negligent failure to warn, train, or educate by J.P. and N.B. against
BUSD; (8) IIED by J.P. and N.B. against all Defendants; (9) sexual harassment
by J.P. and N.B. against all Defendants; and (10) battery by J.P. and N.B.
against Mr. Bullington. 
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On May 31, 2024, Plaintiff J.P. filed a
motion to compel Defendant BUSD’s further responses to Request for Production,
set two (“RPD”) No. 30.  
On June 14, 2024, BUSD filed an opposition
brief. 
On June 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply
brief. 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff J.P. (hereinafter
“Plaintiff”) moves to compel BUSD’s further response to RPD Nos. 30.
            RPD No. 30 seeks all electronic communications concerning Rex
Bullington, including email communications and instant messaging communications
among BUSD’s employees concerning Rex Bullington.  BUSD objected on the grounds that the RPD was
unlimited in time and scope, overbroad, unduly burdensome and oppressive, and
vague; sought to invade the attorney-client privilege and attorney work product
doctrine; called for the premature disclosure of expert information and expert
opinion; called for a legal conclusion; was asked and answered; invaded privacy
rights; violated 5th Amendment rights; and called for confidential
information. 
            Plaintiff argues that the time and
scope of the RPD is not an issue since all electronic communications of Mr.
Bullington are probative of notice.  He
also argues that BUSD should produce all documents that involve “Bullington” in
connection with terms like “touching,” “inappropriate,” etc., which Plaintiff
has offered to limit the RPD to. 
Plaintiff also argues that BUSD is an entity and not an individual
person, such that it cannot invoke the 5th Amendment.  (See Avant! Corp. v.
Superior Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 876, 883 [“In Wilson
v. United States, supra, 221 U.S. at pages 382-383 [31 S.Ct. at page 545],
the United States Supreme Court held that, unlike private individuals,
corporations have no privilege against self-incrimination.”].)  
            In opposition, BUSD argues that the
attorney-client privilege, the right of privacy, and the Family Educational
Rights and Privacy Act (20 U.S.C. § 1232g) are valid objections such that BUSD
cannot disclose personally identifiable information from a student’s
educational records to a third party without the parent’s prior written
consent.  BUSD argues that it has
extended the time for Plaintiff to file this motion so that the parties can
meet and confer and discuss how to review the thousands of documents that BUSD
has within its possession (nearly 88,400 documents).  
            As currently presented to the Court,
RPD No. 30 is overbroad in time and scope. 
Based on the complaint’s allegations, Mr. Bullington’s alleged actions
towards Plaintiff occurred in September 2019 to March 2020 (while Mr.
Bullington’s alleged actions towards Plaintiff N.B. occurred on two separate
occasions between 2000 and 2004). 
Pending further meet and confer efforts, Plaintiff should limit the time
frame of this RPD request to an appropriate amount of time—whether based on
Plaintiff J.P.’s allegations only or including Plaintiff N.B.’s allegations as
well.  It also appears that Plaintiff is
willing to narrow the scope of the RPD by limiting the search terms.  As currently worded, RPD No. 30 does not have
such limitations; as such, Plaintiff should amend the RPD with the search terms
Plaintiff seeks so that BUSD can appropriately make searches for the terms in
its nearly 88,400 documents.  To the
extent that any documents are privileged based on the attorney-client privilege
and attorney work product doctrine or the privacy rights of third parties
(particularly minor students), BUSD should produce a privilege log.  (CCP § 2031.240.)  
At this time, the Court denies Plainitff’s
motion to compel BUSD’s further response to RPD No. 30.  However, the Court will order Plaintiff and
BUSD to continue with their meet and confer efforts to limit the scope of RPD
No. 30.  Plaintiff is ordered to
re-propound RPD No. 30 on BUSD with appropriate limitations and BUSD shall be
ordered to respond to the amended RPD within 30 days of service of the RPD
request.  
In light of the ruling, no sanctions
will be awarded.  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER 
Plaintiff J.P.’s motion to compel
Defendant BUSD’s further response to RPD No. 30 is denied.  The parties are ordered to continue meeting
and conferring to limit the scope of RPD No. 30.  Plaintiff is ordered to re-propound
RPD No. 30 on BUSD with appropriate limitations and BUSD shall be ordered to
respond to the amended RPD within 30 days of service of the RPD request.  
No sanctions will be awarded. 
Plaintiff shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
 
 
DATED: 
June 28, 2024                                                         ___________________________
                                                                                          John Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court