 Case Number:  21BBCV00311    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
deep green
  housing and community development, 
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
plumbers on demand, 
 
                        Defendant.


 
  Case
  No.: 21BBCV00311
 
  Hearing Date:  June 28, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for leave to file cross-complaint



 
BACKGROUND 
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Deep Green Housing and Community
Development (“Plaintiff”) alleges that on November 9, 2018, Plaintiff and Defendant
Plumbers on Demand (“Defendant”) entered into an oral agreement pursuant to
which Defendant agreed that it would perform plumbing services for various
properties under Plaintiff’s management and control.  (Compl., ¶6.) 
Pursuant to the oral agreement, Defendant completed and ceased providing
its plumbing services on July 2, 2020.  (Id., ¶7.)  Plaintiff alleges that
the work Defendant provided required it to be properly licensed as a contractor
at all times during the performance of its work. Plaintiff believes Defendant
was not properly licensed.  (Id., ¶¶8-9.)  Plaintiff
alleges that it paid Defendant $207,377.84 based on Defendant’s billing and
thus Plaintiff seeks to recover $207,377.84 against Defendant pursuant to
Business & Professions Code, § 7031(b). 
(Id., ¶¶10-12.) 
The complaint, filed on March 30, 2021,
alleges a single cause of action for disgorgement of money paid to unlicensed
contractor (violation of Business & Professions Code, § 7031(b)).
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On May 1, 2024, Defendant filed a motion
for leave to file a cross-complaint.  
The Court is not in receipt of an
opposition brief. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
Under CCP § 428.10(b), a party to an
action may file a cross-complaint setting forth any cause of action he has
against a person to be liable thereon if the cause of action asserted in the
cross-complaint arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of
transactions or occurrences as the cause brought against him, or asserts a
claim, right, or interest in the property or controversy which is the subject
of the cause brought against him.  
“A party who fails to plead a cause of action subject to the
requirements of this article, whether through oversight, inadvertence, mistake,
neglect, or other cause, may apply to the court for leave to amend his
pleading, or to file a cross-complaint, to assert such cause at any time during
the course of the action. The court, after notice to the adverse party, shall
grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to amend the
pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the party who
failed to plead the cause acted in good faith. This subdivision shall be
liberally construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.”  (CCP § 426.50.)  
CCP § 428.50 states:
(a) A
party shall file a cross-complaint against any of the parties who filed the
complaint or cross-complaint against him or her before or at the same time as
the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.
(b)
Any other cross-complaint may be filed at any time before the court has set a
date for trial.
(c) A party shall obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint except one
filed within
the time specified in
subdivision (a) or (b). Leave may be granted in the interest of justice at any
time during the course of the action.
(CCP § 428.50.) 
DISCUSSION
            Defendant moves
for leave to file a compulsory cross-complaint pursuant to CCP §§ 428.10,
426.50, and 428.50(c).  Defendant
attached a copy of the proposed cross-complaint as Exhibit A to the motion
papers. 
            Defendant argues that the proposed
cross-complaint is compulsory because it arises out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the underlying
complaint by Plaintiff.  Defendant argues
that at issue in the cross-complaint would be the payment of plumbing services
rendered by Defendant at Plaintiff’s properties from November 9, 2018 to July
2, 2020.  Defendant argues that while
Plaintiff seeks disgorgement of $207,377.84 paid by Defendant for plumbing
services provided over a 19-month period, Defendant is seeking payment of
$59,853.83 remaining from the same services rendered at the same properties
during the same time frame.  Defendant
also argues that there is no prejudice to Plaintiff as Plaintiff has been
informed about the outstanding claim for damages since 2020 and allowing the
cross-complaint would help avoid duplicative legal proceedings.  
The Court finds that there is substantive
merit to granting the motion.  The proposed
cross-complaint arises out of the same transaction, occurrence, or series of
transactions or occurrences as the cause brought against Defendant.  As such, the motion for leave to file a
cross-complaint is granted.  
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Defendant Plumbers
on Demand’s motion for leave to file the proposed cross-complaint is granted.  Defendant is ordered to electronically file a
copy of the cross-complaint following the hearing on this matter.  Defendant shall give notice of
this order.  
 
DATED: June 28,
2024                                                          ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court