 Case Number:  21GDCV01353    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
andrew bergman, et al.,
    
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
isaac blocher, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case
  No.: 21GDCV01353
 
  Hearing Date: June 28, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion to strike the answers of kristie and isaac blocher, and
  blocher holdings, llc 



 
BACKGROUND

A.    Allegations

Plaintiffs
Andrew Bergman, Andrew Bondarczuk, Edward Bondarczuk, Matthew Bondarczuk, Steve
Bondarczuk, Cain Hernandez, Joshua Miller, Aaron Mullenix, Christopher Nuesa,
Jane Park, William Marc Salsberry, Trevor Schmidt, Aaron Stogner, Brian
Walters, and Carlos Zoller (“Plaintiffs”) commenced this action against
Defendant Isaac Blocher, Kristie Blocher, Aneaka English, Blocher Holdings LLC,
Consortium Title, LLC, Wholesale Listings Ltd. Co., LLC, Wholesale Real Estate,
LLC, WSRE South Carolina, LLC aka WSRE S. Carolina, LLC, WSRE Georgia, LLC,
Selling N. Atlanta, LLC, Selling Real Estate, LLC, Selling N. Charleston, LLC,
Selling N. Richmond, LLC, WSRE Florida, LLC, and E.S. Real Estate Consortium
Corp.  Shepherds, LLC is named as a
nominal defendant. 
Plaintiffs
allege that they are members and investors of Shepherds LLC.  Isaac and Kristie Blocher are alleged to be
the members of Blocher Holdings LLC (now dissolved) and Blocher Holdings LLC
served as the manager for Shepherds LLC. 
Isaac Blocher is also alleged to be the manager of Shepherds LLC.  
Plaintiffs
allege that Isaac Blocher made false promises to Plaintiffs to induce their
investment into Shepherds LLC, such as promising he would generate income for
Plaintiffs, be a professional investment mortgage broker and private lender, be
a good steward to Plaintiffs’ investment, etc. 
(SAC, ¶42.)  In reliance on Isaac
Blocher’s representations, Plaintiffs invested a total of $2,437,488 into
Shepherds LLC.   Plaintiffs allege that Isaac Blocher invested
nearly all of Plaintiffs’ funds with Aneaka English and transferred nearly $2.1
million from the company’ bank account into Aneaka English’s bank account.  Plaintiffs allege that Aneaka English
subsequently stole the money.  Plaintiffs
allege that this and other conduct by Isaac Blocher amounted to grossly
negligence and/or reckless investing and behavior.  
The second
amended complaint (“SAC”), filed September 5, 2023, alleges causes of action
for: (1) breach of fiduciary
duty – count one – direct cause of action; (2) breach of fiduciary duty – count
two – derivative cause of action; (3) conversion – count one – direct cause of
action; (4) conversion – count two – derivative cause of action; (5) fraud –
count one – direct cause of action; (6) negligence – count one – direct cause
of action; (7) negligence – count two – derivative cause of action; (8) breach
of written contract – count one – direct cause of action; (9) breach of written
contract – count two – derivative cause of action; (10) breach of the covenant
of good faith and fair dealing – direct cause of action; (11) violation of Bus.
& Profs. Code, §§ 17200 et seq. – count one – direct cause of
action; (12) violation of Bus. & Profs. Code, §§ 17200 et seq. –
count two – derivative cause of action; (13) accounting – count one – direct
cause of action; and (14) accounting – count two – derivative cause of action. 
B.     Cross-Complaint

On
October 20, 2023, Defendants/Cross-Complainants Aneaka English aka Aneaka Ukah,
Selling N. Atlanta, LLC, Selling N. Charleston, LLC, Selling N. Richmond, LLC,
WSRE Florida, LLC, WSRE Georgia, LLC, and WSRE South Carolina LLC
(“Cross-Complainants”) filed a cross-complaint against Cross-Defendants Andrew
Bergman, Andrew Bondarczuk, Edward Bondarczuk, Matthew Bondarczuk, Steve
Bondarczuk, Cain Hernandez, Joshua Miller, Aaron Mullenix, Christopher Nuesa,
Jane Park, William Marc Salsberry, Trevor Schmidt, Aaron Stogner, Brian
Walters, Carlos Zoller, Isaac Blocher, Kristie Blocher, Blocher Holdings, LLC,
and Shepherds, LLC.  The cross-complaint
alleges causes of action for: (1) accounting; (2) declaratory relief; (3)
violation of Business & Professions Code, § 17200 et seq.; and (4)
interpleader. 
On
February 16, 2024, the Court sustained without leave to amend Cross-Defendants’
demurrer to and granted without leave to amend the motion to strike the
cross-complaint filed on October 20, 2023. 
That same day, the Court dismissed without prejudice the
cross-complaint.  
C.     Motion
on Calendar and Relevant Background
On May 2, 2024,
Isaac Blocher and Kristie Blocher filed an answer in propria persona.  
On May 3, 2024,
Blocher Holdings, LLC filed an answer in propria persona. 
Kristie Blocher
and Blocher Holdings, LLC submitted fee waiver requests, which were denied on
May 7, 2024.  
On May 14, 2024,
Isaac Blocher and Kristie Blocher filed another answer in propria persona. 
Kristie
Blocher’s subsequent request for fee waiver was granted on June 3, 2024.  The Court notes that Isaac Blocher did not
file a request for fee waiver following 60 days of dismissal of the action. 
On May 21, 2024,
Plaintiffs filed a motion to strike the answers of Blocher Holdings, LLC, Isaac
Blocher, and Kristie Blocher in their entirety. 
The Court is not in receipt of an opposition brief.  
DISCUSSION 
            Plaintiffs
move to strike the answers filed by Blocher Holdings, LLC, Isaac Blocher, and
Kristie Blocher.
            As
a preliminary matter, the Court notes that at the time Kristie Blocher and
Isaac Blocher had filed their answer on May 2 and 14, 2024 and Blocher
Holdings, LLC filed its answer on May 3, 2024, Kristie Blocher, Isaac Blocher,
and Blocher Holdings, LLC had not paid their court filing fees.  After Kristie Blocher filed her answers, her
fee waiver was granted on June 3, 2024; however, her fee waiver does not apply
retroactively.  As such, Kristie Blocher
has not paid prior court fees (as noticed by the clerk of the court on May 29,
2024), including her first appearance fees. 
As indicated above, Isaac Blocher did not file a subsequent request for
fee waiver, such that his court fees are also due.  Finally, a corporation is not entitled to a
fee waiver, such that Blocher Holdings, LLC’s fees in this action are also due
(as noticed by the clerk of the court on May 29, 2024).  Due to the issues regarding fees and
outstanding payments, the answers are hereby stricken for Kristie Blocher,
Isaac Blocher, and Blocher Holdings, LLC’s failure to pay their court fees. 
            There
are additional reasons to strike the answers as argued in Plaintiffs’ motion to
strike. 
            First,
Plaintiffs argue that Isaac Blocher and Kristie Blocher’s initially filed
answer (May 2, 2024) and Blocher Holdings, LLC’s answer (filed May 3, 2024) are
not signed.  A review of the May 2, 2024
an May 3, 2024 answers confirm that they were not signed.  However, the Court notes that Isaac Blocher
and Kristie Blocher’s subsequent answer (the “first amended” answer, which would
technically be the operative answer if fees had been paid) filed on May 14,
2024 is signed by these individuals.  The
lack of signature on Blocher Holdings, LLC’s answer is a ground to grant the
motion to strike as against Blocher Holdings, LLC.
            Second,
Plaintiffs argue that the answer was filed by Blocher Holdings, LLC on May 3,
2024 in propria persona, which was improper as Blocher Holdings, LLC was not
represented at the time it filed the answer. 
(See
Rogers v. Municipal Court (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d 1314, 1318 [stating
that a corporate entity cannot represent itself in pro per].)  It does not appear that Blocher
Holdings, LLC was represented at the time of filing its answer and it is still currently
not represented by counsel.  As such,
this is another ground to strike Blocher Holdings, LLC’s answer. 
            Third,
Plaintiffs argue that the May 2, 2024 and May 3, 2024 answers misleadingly
state the name of the law firm “HAHN & HAHN LLP” near the signature block
of each pleading.  (See 5/2/24 Answer at
p.5; 5/3/24 Answer at p.5.)  Although the
name of a law firm is in these pleadings, Defendants identified themselves as
self-represented litigants in these answers. 
While the inclusion of the law firm’s name was improper, this is not a
ground to strike the answers in their entirety, such that the Court would have
only stricken the reference to the law firm near the signature line.  However, this is a moot point as there are
other procedural and substantive grounds to strike the answers in their
entirety as discussed above. 
            For
these reasons, the Court grants the motion to strike the answers of Kristie
Blocher, Isaac Blocher, and Blocher Holdings, LLC in their entirety.   
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Plaintiffs’
motion to strike the answers of Defendants Kristie Blocher, Isaac Blocher, and Blocher
Holdings, LLC in their entirety is granted. 
 
Plaintiffs
shall
provide notice of this order. 
 
DATED:
June 28, 2024                                              ___________________________
                                                                              John
Kralik
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court   