 Case Number:  23BBCV01140    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
Tommy Sabre
  Buttner,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
Alternative Automotive Solutions, LLC, 
 
                        Defendant.


 
Case
  No.:  23BBCV01140
 
Trial
  Date:  June 28, 2024
 
 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
Motion to Reconsider, vacate or amend judgment, new
  evidence, or grant new trial 
 



 
BACKGROUND
A.   
Allegations
Plaintiff Tommy Sabre Buttner
(“Plaintiff”) alleges that this matter involves the deceptive sale of a used,
unsafe, defective vehicle that was sold to Plaintiff by Defendant/dealer
Alternative Automotive Solutions, LLC (“Defendant”).  Plaintiff alleges that the vehicle was stolen
with a different VIN number so that when Plaintiff reported the issue to the
California Highway Patrol, the vehicle was taken away from Plaintiff,
impounded, and returned to the original owner even though Plaintiff had paid
the dealership in full and had no involvement in the illegal actions of
Defendant. 
The complaint, filed May 22, 2023, alleges
causes of action for: (1) violations of Consumers Legal Remedies Act (Civ.
Code, § 1750 et seq.); (2) conversion; (3) violations of Unfair
Competition Law (Bus. & Profs. Code, § 17200 et seq.); and (4) bond
liability. 
B.    
Relevant Background
This case proceeded to trial before the
Court on April 2, 2024.
The Court issued a Statement of Decision
on April 5, 2024.  The Court dismissed
the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th causes of action based
on Plaintiff’s failure to proceed at trial. 
The Court stated that Plaintiff would have judgment against Defendant in
the amount of $28,095 on the 1st cause of action.  
The Court entered Judgment on April 22,
2024.  The Judgment states that judgment
was entered in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant in the amount of
$28,095.  Plaintiff may seeks costs by
Memorandum of Costs and may seek statutory attorney’s fees by noticed
motion.  
C.    
Motion on Calendar 
On April 15, 2024, Defendant filed a
motion to vacate the judgment that was entered (CCP § 663) or the reconsider
the intended judgment (CCP § 1003) or for a new trial. Alternatively, Defendant
stated its intent to move for an order setting aside the judgment and modifying
the judgment or granting a new trial (CCP § 659) based on new evidence and
error of law/inconsistency of logic. 
On May 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed
opposition papers.
DISCUSSION
A.   
CCP § 663 
CCP
§ 663 states:
A judgment or decree, when based upon a decision
by the court, or the special verdict of a jury, may, upon motion of the party
aggrieved, be set aside and vacated by the same court, and another and
different judgment entered, for either of the following causes, materially
affecting the substantial rights of the
party and entitling the party to a
different judgment:
1. Incorrect or erroneous legal basis
for the decision, not consistent with or not supported by the facts; and in such case when the judgment
is set aside, the statement of decision
shall be amended and corrected.
2. A judgment or decree not consistent with or not supported by the special
verdict.
(CCP
§ 663.) 
            Defendant argues that the Court improperly
failed to allow an equitable setoff for Defendant on the basis that title was
defective and thus Defendant had no rights. 
Defendant states: “I think that defendant as innocent recipient and good
faith purchaser and seller of the car did have rights against all save the true
owner.”  (Mot. at p.5.)  Defendant argues that it was only entitled to
pay the value of Plaintiff’s loss to make Plaintiff whole, or $19,500.  
However, this argument is essentially a re-litigation of the facts of the
case and the considerations the Court already made with respect to setoff.  In its Statement of Decision, the Court
stated: 
At trial, Mr. Buttner did not dispute that AAS, like
him, was the innocent victim of a fraud. Claims of conversion and for punitive
damages were dropped, and Plaintiff did not pursue his second cause of action
for conversion, third cause of action for violation of unfair competition law,
and fourth cause of action for bond liability. 
Plaintiff proceeded only on his first cause of action under the Consumer
Legal Remedies Act (Cal. Civ. Code § 1750, et seq.). Plaintiff’s contention was
that by providing a false VIN, AAS had misrepresented “the affiliation,
connection, or association with, or certification by, another.” (Cal. Civ. Code
§ 1770(a)(3).) Plaintiff sought return of the $28,095 as “restitution” under
Cal. Civ. Code § 1780 (a)(3), and he sought the $832.18 he had expended as
damages under Cal. Civ. Code § 1780 (a)(1). Even though the sale was made “as
is,” thus waiving all implied warranties (Cal. Civ. Code § 1792.5), the vehicle
identification number concededly misrepresented the legal status of the vehicle’s
registration. The basic facts related above show that Plaintiff made his prima
facie case without much dispute. 
            AAS sought to find that Mr.
Buttner’s restitution should be reduced by a credit for the use of the vehicle.
While the parties argued over the value of such use, there was little doubt
that Mr. Buttner did receive significant value from his use of the Subaru.
Significantly, it should be noted that persons claiming defect against
automobile manufacturers do have their rescission amounts reduced by a formula
related to the mileage of the vehicle when the vehicle was returned. (Cal. Civ.
Code § 1793.2(d)(2)(C).) 
Plaintiff’s counsel ably pointed out that there are no
cases under Cal. Civ. Code § 1780(a)(3) allowing for a similar credit, or
really any credit with respect to a restitution award under that section. In
the Court’s view this does not end the inquiry. Restitution is an equitable
doctrine. In using that word, the Legislature would have expected the courts to
put equitable limitations on any award of restitution.
Nevertheless, the Court does not feel it is
appropriate to impose an equitable credit for use of the automobile on the
award of restitution of $28,095 in this case. Undoubtedly, the Court does have
the power to impose such a credit in an appropriate case:
General
Principle. A party who seeks equity must do equity. Under this
maxim, a court will not grant equitable relief to a plaintiff unless he or she
acknowledges or provides for the equitable claims or demands of the adverse
party growing out of the particular controversy or connected with the same
subject matter.
(13
B. Witkin, Summary of California Law, Equity, Ch. XIX, § 6(1) (11th
ed. 2017, May 2023 Update) [citations omitted].) Nevertheless, Professor
Witkin’s Treatise goes on to note that “[t]his maxim does not authorize the
creation of substantive rights in favor of a person, nor the imposition of
arbitrary conditions not warranted by settled doctrines of equity.”  (Id. at § 6(3).) In the case of a new
automobile manufacturer, there is a legal sale of an automobile. In this case,
however unwittingly, AAS sold a stolen automobile. AAS has no legal or
equitable right to retain any portion of the proceeds of that sale. For that
reason, the Court awards a full restitution amount of $28,095 to Mr. Buttner. 
With respect to Mr. Buttner’s damage claim, however,
he did receive substantial value in the use of the vehicle for 14 months. This
leads to the conclusion that he was not damaged by making minor repairs during
this period. The Court does not award the repair costs of the automobile.
The Court has also considered whether AAS has a
defense under Cal. Civil Code § 1784. The Court agrees that AAS did not act
intentionally, and the evidence indicates that the sale of this stolen vehicle
was a bona fide error under section 1784(a). Nevertheless, AAS did not offer a
full corrective remedy by offering to return the full amount paid for this
stolen vehicle. (Cal. Civ. Code § 1784(b); see Exhibit 10.)
(Statement of Decision at pp.2-4.)  
Thus, this issue
will not be relitigated and this will not be a ground to vacate or amend the
judgment.  
B.    
CCP § 1003 
CCP § 1003 states: “Every direction of a court or judge, made or entered
in writing, and not included in a judgment, is denominated an order. An
application for an order is a motion.”  
Defendant
cites to CCP § 1003 in its caption and on page 1 of the motion.  However, it is unclear if Defendant intended
to move pursuant to section 1003 as section 1003 does not provide any ground
for relief. 
As
section 1003 does not provide a ground for relief, the motion is denied as
brought pursuant to this section.  
The
Court notes that motions for reconsideration are typically brought pursuant to
CCP § 1008, but section 1008 was not cited, referenced, or discussed in the
motion papers.  
C.    
CCP § 659
CCP § 659 states that a party may move for
a new trial by serving its intent to move for new trial and designating the
grounds upon which the motion is based. 
CCP § 657 states that a decision may be modified or vacated and a new or
further trial may be granted on all or part of issues for the causes listed in
section 657, including but not limited to: “4. Newly discovered evidence, material for the party making the application,
which he could not, with reasonable diligence, have discovered and produced at the
trial” and “7. Error in law, occurring at the trial and excepted to by the
party making the application.”  (CCP §
657.)  
Defendant
argues that it recently discovered that the subject vehicle was sold with only
a few thousand extra miles on it for $8,000, despite Plaintiff having testified
at trial that it was worth near $26,000 and Defendant testifying it was not
worth more than $17,000.  Defendant
argues that the case should be reevaluated to the reasonableness of Defendant’s
30-day initial offer to Plaintiff of $19,500. 
While the vehicle may have been sold recently for $8,000, no further
information about the transaction has been provided.  For example, was the vehicle sale made a
discount to a family member or friend? Was there any damage that occurred to
the vehicle since Plaintiff and driven the car? The mere fact that the vehicle was
sold for a lesser price than what Defendant had offered Plaintiff or what
Plaintiff had testified about trial is not conclusive proof of the value of the
vehicle.  This will not be a ground upon
which the motion will be granted.  
Defendant
also argues that the Court improperly found that an equitable setoff was not
appropriate where two innocent parties were victimized by a third party, and
thus failed to grant Defendant any setoff for the value
Plaintiff received.  As discussed above
(regarding CCP § 663), the Court amply discussed its reasoning regarding setoff
in its Statement of Decision.  Thus, this
issue will not be relitigated and this will not be a ground for a new
trial.  
The
alternative motion for a new trial is denied. 

CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant
Alternative Automotive Solutions, LLC’s motion for reconsideration, to vacate
or amend the judgment, or for a new trial is denied. 
Defendant shall
provide notice of this order.  
 
DATED:
June 28, 2024                                                          ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court