 Case Number:  24BBCV00304    Hearing Date:   June 28, 2024    Dept:  NCB  
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
North
Central District
Department B
 



 
rene de la nuez,
 
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
burbank healthcare, inc. dba burbank healthcare and
  rehabilitation center, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.


 
  Case
  No.: 24BBCV00304
 
  Hearing Date:  June 28, 2024 
 
 [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
motion for trial setting preference



 
BACKGROUND 
A.   
Allegations 
Plaintiff Rene De La Nuez (“Plaintiff”)
alleges that he is an elder.  He alleges
that Defendants Burbank Healthcare, Inc. dba Burbank Healthcare and
Rehabilitation Center and Burbank Healthcare LLC dba Burbank Healthcare and
Rehabilitation Center (collectively, “Burbank Healthcare”) were in the business
of providing long term custodial care as a 24-hour skilled nursing facility at
Burbank Healthcare and Rehabilitation Center facility (“Facility”).  Plaintiff alleges that Defendants Longwood
Management LLC and Longwood Management Corp. (collectively, “Longwood”) were
engaged in operating/managing the Facility. 
Plaintiff refers to Burbank Healthcare and Longwood as “Facility
Management.”  Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant Ayuna K Panossian, M.D. was a licensed physician who was providing
care and treatment to Plaintiff at the Facility, and that Defendants Ayuna K.
Panossian, M.D. (a professional corporation) and Facility Management are vicariously
liable for Dr. Panossian’s actions. 
Plaintiff alleges that Defendant California Wound Healing Medical Group,
Inc. (“CWHMG”) provides care, wound management, and wound treatment to
residents at the Facility.  Defendant
Joseph A. Addiego, D.P.M. is alleged to have provided podiatric and/or wound
care to Plaintiff at the Facility and Defendants Joseph A. Addiego, D.P.M. (a
professional corporation), CWHMG, and Facility Management are alleged to be
vicariously liable for Dr. Addiego’s actions. 
Plaintiff alleges that he was admitted to
the Facility on September 28, 2022 under the primary care of Dr. Panossian for
skilled nursing care and physical, speech, and occupational therapy, following
a stay at Providence St. Joseph Medical Center (“Providence”).  Plaintiff alleges his medical history at the
time included cerebrovascular incident (stroke) with resident left-sided
weakness and diabetes mellitus.  On
September 29, 2022, physical and occupational therapy evaluations were
completed, and Plaintiff was noted to require assistance for activities of
daily living including maximal assistance for bed mobility and transfers.  On December 7, 2022, Dr. Panossian noted that
Plaintiff should use a walker for mobility. 
On April 7, 2023, Plaintiff’s records noted a left lateral foot wound
and a left lateral ankle wound, and wound care was provided by CWHMG and Dr.
Addiego.  Plaintiff alleges wound care
was provided weekly but on May 12, 2023, records indicated that the left
lateral ankle wound involved bone and in June to August 2023, there were signs
of infection in the left foot wounds.  On
September 1, 2023, Plaintiff was transferred to the emergency department at
Providence.  Plaintiff was diagnosed with
gangrene and he underwent an above-the-knee amputation on the left leg on
September 8, 2023.  On October 1, 2023,
Plaintiff was transferred from Providence to a different skilled nursing
facility.  
The complaint, filed on February 6, 2024,
alleges causes of action for: (1) elder abuse/neglect (Welfare &
Institutions Code, § 15600 et al.) against Burbank Healthcare and
Longwood; (2) elder abuse/neglect (Welfare & Institutions Code, § 15600 et
al.) against Panossian Defendants, CWHMG, and Addiego Defendants; (3)
negligence against all Defendants; and (4) violation of Patient Bill of Rights
(Health & Safety Code, § 1430(b)) against Burbank Healthcare and Longwood.  
B.    
Motion on Calendar 
On May 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion
for trial setting preference.  
The Court is not in receipt of an
opposition brief. 
LEGAL
STANDARD
According to CCP §
36(a), a party to a civil action who is over the age of 70 must be given
preference if the party has a substantial interest in the action as a whole and
the health of the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent
prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.  To make the findings required by CCP § 36(a),
evidence must be provided with the motion for preference establishing
Plaintiff’s age and the relevant conditions of her health warranting a
preference.  Pursuant to CCP § 36.5, an
attorney affidavit offered in support of a motion for preference may be based
on information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of a
party.  If a motion for preference based
on a party’s age is granted, the matter must be set for trial not more than 120
days from the date the motion is granted. 
(CCP § 36(f).) 
Pursuant to CCP § 36(e), in its
discretion, the court may grant a motion for preference that is supported by a
showing that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be served
by granting preference.  
Finally, CCP § 36(c)(1) requires that all
essential parties be served with process or have appeared in the action in
order to grant a motion for preference. 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
moves for a trial setting preference.  
There is a case management conference set
for July 3, 2024.  No trial date has yet
been set.  Based on the Court’s review of
its records, all essential parties have been served with the summons and
complaint and/or have appeared in the action (either by filing an answer or
filing a demurrer).  
Plaintiff is currently 91 years old (date
of birth: May 19, 1933).  (Compl., ¶1.)  Further, the Court finds that Plaintiff has a
substantial interest in the action as he is the sole Plaintiff in this action
and he claims he was injured by each of the Defendants for their abuse and
neglect while he was a patient at the Facility.   (Masry Decl., ¶3.)  
Plaintiff’s counsel, Louanne Masry,
provides her declaration in support of the motion.  Ms. Masry states that Plaintiff was admitted
to the Facility in September 2022 and his medical history at that time included
“a cerebrovascular incident (stroke) with residual left-sided weakness and
diabetes mellitus.”  (Masry Decl., ¶4.)  She states that during Plaintiff’s stay at
the Facility, “Plaintiff developed wounds to his left ankle/foot which became
severely infected, gangrenous, and involved exposed muscle and bone,” which
ultimately led him require a left, above-the-knee amputation.  (Id.) 
Ms. Masry states that she has personally spent time with Plaintiff at
his current facility and has observed that he has experienced a significant
decline since his amputation in September 2023. 
(Id., ¶5.)  She states: “In
addition to the fact that Plaintiff’s health prior to the amputation included a
history of cerebrovascular stroke with residual left-sided weakness and
diabetes mellitus, at present, Plaintiff also suffers from numerous chronic
medical conditions which are permanent and unlikely to improve including, but
not limited to, extreme weakness, immobility, and cognitive decline. Plaintiff
is now completely bed-ridden which puts him at a high risk for developing bed
sores, infections, muscle contractures, and malnutrition. Plaintiff is
completely unable to care for himself.” (Id.)  She states that while “no one can speculate
as to what age Plaintiff may ultimately live, there is little doubt that the
continued passage of time, in connection with his current high risk health
factors, diminish his life expectancy. Plaintiff should be able to fully and
meaningfully participate in this litigation while he is physically and mentally
able to do so.”  (Id., ¶6.)
Considering the factors required for a
trial preference under CCP § 36(a), the Court finds that Plaintiff has met his
burden on this motion.  Ms. Masry’s
declaration sufficiently states that given his age and his current medical
conditions, Plaintiff’s health and mental decline sufficiently show that
Plaintiff’s interests would be prejudiced if a preference were not granted.  For these reasons, the Court grants the motion
for trial preference.  
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
Plaintiff Rene De La Nuez’s motion for
trial setting preference is granted.  The
trial shall be preferentially set for October 21, 2024 at 9:30 a.m. in this
department.  Final status conference is
set for October 10, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.
Plaintiff shall give notice of
this order.  
 
DATED: June 28,
2024                                                          ___________________________
                                                                                          John
Kralik
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court