 Case Number:  22STCV11246    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  31 TENTATIVE
Defendant Ehab Atalla’s motion for forum non
conveniens is GRANTED.
Evidentiary Objections
Defendant’s Objections to
Plaintiff’s Declaration Nos. 1, 9-14, 17 are SUSTAINED. Defendant’s Objections
to Plaintiff’s Declaration Nos. 2-8, 15-16, 18-25 are OVERRULED. Defendant’s
Objections to Samy Habashi Declaration Nos. 1-2, 4, 5 are OVERRULED. Defendant’s
Objections to Samy Habashi Declaration Nos. 3 is SUSTAINED.
Defendant’s Objections to Victor Ramsis Kozman Declaration Nos. 1-5 are
SUSTAINED. Defendant’s Objections to Tony Khalaf Declaration Nos. 1-6 are
OVERRULED. 
Legal
Standard 
 
Forum non
conveniens is “an equitable doctrine invoking the discretionary power of a
court to decline the exercise of jurisdiction it has over a transitory cause of
action when it believes that the action may be more appropriately and justly
tried elsewhere.” (Stangvik v. Shiley, Inc. (1991) 54 Cal.3d 744, 751.)
“In California, the procedure for enforcing a forum selection clause is a
motion to stay or dismiss for forum non conveniens pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sections 410.30 and 418.10 [citation], but a motion based on a forum
selection clause is a special type of forum non conveniens motion.”¿ (Berg
v. MTC Electronics Technologies¿(1998) 61 Cal.App.4th 349, 358.)¿ 
¿ 
Code of Civil
Procedure section 410.30(a) states, “[w]hen a court upon motion of a party or
its own motion finds that in the interest of substantial justice an action
should be heard in a forum outside this state, the court shall stay or dismiss
the action in whole or in part on any conditions that may be just.”¿ Code of
Civil Procedure section 418.10(a)(2) states, “[a] defendant, on or before the
last day of his or her time to plead or within any further time that the court
may for good cause allow, may serve and file a notice of motion for one or more
of the following purposes: ¶ [t]o stay or dismiss the action on the ground of
inconvenient forum.”¿ 
¿ 
“‘California
favors contractual¿forum¿selection¿clauses¿so long as they are entered into
freely and voluntarily . . .’”¿ (Verdugo v. Alliantgroup, L.P.¿(2015)
237 Cal.App.4th 141, 146.)¿ “California courts routinely
enforce¿forum¿selection¿clauses¿even where the chosen forum is far from the
plaintiff's residence.”¿ (Net2Phone, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(2003) 109
Cal.App.4th 583, 588.)¿ “California law is ‘in accord with the modern trend
which favors enforceability of such [mandatory] forum selection clauses.¿
[Citations.]”¿ (Quanta Computer Inc. v. Japan Communications Inc.¿(2018)
21 Cal.App.5th 438, 444.)¿ “‘The factors that apply generally to a forum non
conveniens motion do not control in a case involving a mandatory forum
selection clause.¿ [Citations.]¿ Where there is a mandatory forum selection
clause, ‘the test is simply whether application of the clause is unfair or
unreasonable, and the clause is usually given effect.¿ Claims that the
previously chosen forum is unfair or inconvenient are generally rejected.¿
[Citation.]¿ A court will usually honor a mandatory forum selection clause
without extensive analysis of factors relating to convenience.¿ [Citation.]’¿
[Citation.]”¿ (Id. at 445.)¿ 
 
“A permissive
forum selection clause is subject to traditional forum non conveniens analysis
to determine whether the designated forum is a suitable alternative forum and
whether the balancing of various private and public interest factors favors
retaining the action in California.”  (Verdugo
v. Alliantgroup, L.P.¿(2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 141, 147 fn. 2.) 
 
“Forum non
conveniens is an equitable doctrine, codified in Code of Civil Procedure
section 410.30, under which a trial court has discretion to stay or dismiss a
transitory cause of action that it believes may be more appropriately and
justly tried elsewhere.”  (Animal
Film, LLC v. D.E.J. Productions, Inc., 193 Cal. App. 4th 466, 471 (2011)
(emphasis added); accord Stangvik v. Shiley Inc., 54 Cal. 3d 744, 751
(1991).  Accordingly, “[t]he inquiry is
whether ‘in the interest of substantial justice an action should be heard in a
forum outside this state . . . .’”  (Animal
Film, LLC, 193 Cal. App. 4th at 471 (quoting Civ. Proc. Code §
410.30(a)).)¿¿ 
¿ 
“In determining
whether to grant a motion based on forum non conveniens, a court must first
determine whether the alternate forum is a ‘suitable’ place for trial.”  (Stangvik, 54 Cal. 3d at 751.)  “The threshold issue of suitability of the
alternative forum is . . . determined by a two-pronged test: There must be
jurisdiction over the defendant and the assurance that the action will not be
barred by a statute of limitations.”  (Shiley
Inc. v. Superior Court, 4 Cal. App. 4th 126, 133 (1992).¿¿ 
 
The
alternative forum is “suitable” if its law provides a remedy for the claim sued
upon. It is sufficient that the action can be brought, although not necessarily
won, in the alternative forum. (Guimei v. General Elec. Co. (2009) 172
CA4th 689, 696; Roman v. Liberty Univ., Inc. (2008) 162 CA4th 670, 683.)
 
The
other forum's law need not be as favorable to plaintiff as local law. (If that
were required, most forum non conveniens motions would be denied.) (Stangvik
v. Shiley Inc., supra, 54 C3d at 754,—advantages of Calif. procedural or
substantive law “cannot be considered as a factor” (emphasis added); Boaz v.
Boyle & Co., Inc. (1995) 40 CA4th 700, 711—immaterial that plaintiff
will probably or even certainly lose in alternative forum.).)
 
Indeed, the
alternative forum's law is irrelevant unless the remedy provided is so clearly
inadequate or unsatisfactory that it is no remedy at all. (Stangvik v.
Shiley Inc., supra, 54 C3d at 764; Piper Aircraft Co. v. Reyno
(1981) 454 US 235, 254—(the fact that Scotland does not recognize products
liability claim did not constitute deprivation of “any” remedy, since
negligence recovery possible.).)
 
The “no remedy at
all” exception applies only in rare circumstances, “such as where the
alternative forum is a foreign country whose courts are ruled by a
dictatorship, so that there is no independent judiciary or due process of law.”
(Shiley Inc. v. Sup.Ct. (Alsup) (1992) 4 CA4th 126, 133-134.)
 
If there is a
suitable alternate forum, then “the next step is to consider the private
interests of the litigants and the interests of the public in retaining the
action for trial in California.”  (Stangvik,
54 Cal. 3d at 751.)  “The private
interest factors are those that make trial and the enforceability of the
ensuing judgment expeditious and relatively inexpensive, such as the ease of
access to sources of proof, the cost of obtaining attendance of witnesses, and
the availability of compulsory process for attendance of unwilling
witnesses.”  (Id.)  “The public interest factors include
avoidance of overburdening local courts with congested calendars, protecting
the interests of potential jurors so that they are not called upon to decide
cases in which the local community has little concern, and weighing the
competing interests of California and the alternate jurisdiction in the
litigation.” (Id.)¿¿ 
¿ 
Generally, “[o]n a
motion for forum non conveniens, the defendant, as the moving party, bears the
burden of proof.”  (Id.)  If the defendant’s motion is granted, then
“the court shall stay or dismiss the action in whole or in part on any
conditions that may be just.”  (Civ.
Proc. Code § 410.30(a).)¿¿ 
 
Discussion 
 
On May 25, 2022,
the Court continued this motion to dismiss or abate on the ground of forum
non-conveniens.  The Court found that the
forum selection clause (the “Clause”) is permissive and not mandatory. As a
result, the Court stated it would apply a traditional forum non conveniens
analysis to determine whether the designated forum is a suitable alternative
forum and whether the balancing of various private and public interest factors
favors retaining the action in California. However, the court found that it is
unclear whether a Court in Egypt would lack jurisdiction over this matter.  It noted that if the Court were to dismiss
this matter, there would be a significant risk that a court in Egypt may not
have jurisdiction over Plaintiff’s claims, which would deprive Plaintiff of his
day in court.  However, Defendant argued
that Article 12 of the subject Agreements required the parties to arbitrate
their disputes and that an arbitration is ongoing with the full participation
of Plaintiff, through his counsel. 
 
As to the private
and public interest factors, the Court found that while Defendant represented
that Plaintiff will be able and is representing his interest in ongoing
arbitration in Egypt that Plaintiff is participating in, there was no evidence
that Plaintiff has asserted his claims in that arbitration, and the Court was
not convinced that Plaintiff would have his day in Court.  The Court agreed with Defendant that this
matter favors a forum in Egypt because the Agreements were to obtain property
and assets in Egypt, and the disputes are governed by Egyptian Law.  In addition, while Plaintiff contended that
all material witnesses are located in the United States Plaintiff failed to
identify those witnesses, other than Mr. Habashi.  
 
Nevertheless, the
Court found that it is in the best interest of justice to stay this matter, as
the arbitration outcome in Egypt could well determine whether the instant
action goes forward. If Plaintiff is able to press his claims in that
proceeding the Court could find that this action is moot. 
 
The Court required
the Parties to provide a status report relating to the Egyptian proceedings and
whether Plaintiff was able to assert there the claims he asserts in the instant
Complaint. 
The Court now additionally finds that the
forum¿selection¿clause¿was entered into freely and voluntarily. Plaintiff
argues that he entered into the agreement without having a chance to read it or
consult with a legal counsel about its actual substance. (Habashi Decl. ¶ 6;
Hakim Decl. ¶¶ 5-6.) However, in reply, Defendant argues that the Promise of
Sale Agreements were not enforceable in Egypt until Atalla and Hakim together
(or their designated representatives) presented them to, and obtained formal
approval from, a court in Egypt and Plaintiff therefore had weeks to review the
Promise of Sale Agreements, consult with attorneys, and assert any objections,
before the Egyptian court approved them. (See Milad Decl., ¶¶ 3-5 & Exhs.
1, 3-5.) The Court finds that Plaintiff failed to meet his burden to show that
he did not enter into the forum selection clause freely and voluntarily.
Since the
continuance, Defendant has filed additional declarations and Plaintiff filed a
supplemental opposition. Plaintiff argues in his supplemental opposition (filed
in Jan. 2023) that the motion to dismiss should be denied because the case in
Egypt is still underway. In Egypt, in cases where the three arbitrators do not
agree in a result, the case may be appealed to civil courts. That is what
happened in this case. The arbitrators ruled in favor of Defendant Attala 2-1.
The Court’s disposition since May 2022 has been to stay these proceedings
pending the outcome of the arbitration in Egypt. Those proceedings are not
complete.
 
However, Defendant
has submitted supplemental declarations which state that there were two
arbitration proceedings which involve all four promise of sale agreements,
which were decided in favor of Defendant. Plaintiff separately appealed both
decisions, which were affirmed by the Court of Appeal. (Abdalla Second Decl. ¶ 12, Third
Decl, ¶ 3.)
As such, the proceedings are complete.
 
Next, Plaintiff argues that the remedies available in
Egypt are insufficient to protect Plaintiff’s rights in the United States.
Plaintiff argues a key assurance Defendant Atalla made to the arbitral tribunal
was that he had released the liens on Plaintiff’s properties in the United
States. That was a lie. Neither the arbitral tribunal nor the cassation courts
in Egypt can enforce that condition. Only a United States court can enforce
that promise, and his failure to release the liens thus far, despite his assurance
to the arbitral tribunal that he had done so is evidence that the enforcement
remedies available in the courts in Egypt are insufficient to protect
Plaintiff’s interests.
 
However, Abdalla,
who was Defendant’s attorney in the arbitration proceeding in Egypt, declares
under penalty of perjury that he did not represent to the arbitration
tribunal that Defendant had released liens and guarantees concerning assets and
property in California. He further attests that the tribunal did not order
Defendant to release those liens and guarantees. (Adballa Second Suppl. Decl., ¶ 8.) On the
contrary, he merely advised the tribunal that in the event that all of
Defendant’s claims are affirmed and the award is fully satisfied by Plaintiff,
a portion of the liens and guarantees which relate to the monetary obligations
under the promise to sale agreement at issue would be null and void. (Id., ¶ 9; Exh. 5,
at p. 14, ¶ 67; p. 75, ¶ 261.)
 
As such, Plaintiff has not shown that the
remedies provided in Egypt are insufficient.
 
Next, Plaintiff
argues that the Court should deny the motion because Plaintiff’s claims are
outside the scope of the case in Egypt. In the Egypt case, Defendant alleges
breach of contract. Here, Plaintiff alleges conduct outside the four promises
of sale. Plaintiff alleges that Defendant breached his agreement as an investor
in Plaintiff’s company by only paying $6.8 million rather than the agreed
amount of $12 million, and after the business went bad, he fraudulently
asserted that the investment was rather a loan to be repaid. Plaintiff argues
that all that was litigated was the four promises of sale, not Plaintiff’s
additional claims of fraud, unfair business practices, money laundering,
double-dipping, unjust business practices and possible punitive damages.
 
However, Abdalla
declares under penalty of perjury that Plaintiff made the same factual or legal
claims asserted in the complaint in this action in the arbitration, and that
the arbitration tribunal carefully reviewed and considered each of those
contentions before issuing the award. (Adballa Second Suppl. Decl., ¶ 5.) For
example, in the complaint in this action, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant
entered into a “verbal understanding” to “partner with [Plaintiff] in his
corporations” and that the funds paid by Defendant under the promise of sale
agreements were in fact “money received toward [Defendant’s] percentage share
in the corporation.” (Compl., ¶¶ 8-9.) This is the same allegation Plaintiff
made at the arbitration. (Adballa Second Suppl., ¶ 6; Exh. 5, at p. 19, ¶ 92.)
Similarly, in the complaint, although admitting that he signed the four promise
of sale agreement, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant “fraudulently” caused him
to sign the promise of sale agreements because he did not receive the promised
consideration. (Compl, ¶¶ 11-12.) Again,
this is the same contention Plaintiff made at the arbitration. (Adballa Second Suppl., ¶ 6; Exh. 5,
at p. 49, ¶
204; p. 50, ¶ 205; p. 51, ¶ 212; p. 72, ¶ 258.) And,
in the complaint in this action, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant is liable for
“money laundering” because he allegedly paid funds to Plaintiff under the
promise of sale agreements in “cash.” Again, this is the same allegation
Plaintiff made at arbitration. (Adballa
Second Suppl., ¶ 6;
Exh. 5, at p. 25, ¶ 112; p. 26, ¶ 114; p. 27, ¶ 116; pp.
40-42, ¶ 167; pp. 52-56, ¶ 218-220.)
 
As such, as
demonstrated by the above evidence, Plaintiff’s claims are not outside the
scope of the arbitration proceedings in Egypt.
 
Plaintiff also
argues that the court should deny the motion to dismiss because several of the
grounds upon which the appeal in Egypt are based involve whether the courts in
Egypt have jurisdiction over the dispute.

However, the Second Arbitration Tribunal rejected Plaintiff’s contention that
it was not competent to hear the dispute or did not have jurisdiction over the
subject matter of the case which should instead be adjudicated in the United
States. (Abdalla Second Decl., 23; Third Decl, 3.)
 
As a result, based
on the declaration of Abdalla that the Court of Appeal found they had
jurisdiction, and the fact that this matter was heard by the arbitral tribunal
and affirmed by the Court of Appeal in Egypt, the Court finds that there was a
suitable forum. Further, as the claims in the complaint were brought in Egypt
by Defendant in this matter, there was a remedy there. If
defendant demonstrates that it is amenable to process in the alternative forum
and there is no procedural bar to the foreign court's deciding the case on the
merits, the burden falls on plaintiff to show that the alternative forum is
nevertheless unsuitable. (Hahn v. Diaz-Barba (2011) 194 CA4th 1177,
1191.)
 
Plaintiff has failed to show that the Egyptian’s judicial
system is not adequate.
 
Moreover, as to the private and public interest factors,
as noted above, on May 25, 2022, the Court agreed with Defendant that this
matter favors a forum in Egypt because the Agreements were to obtain property
and assets in Egypt, and the disputes are governed by Egyptian Law.  In addition, while Plaintiff contended that
all material witnesses are located in the United States Plaintiff failed to
identify those witnesses, other than Mr. Habashi.  
 
Therefore, Defendant’s motion is GRANTED.
 
Conclusion
 
Defendant’s motion to dismiss on the ground of forum non
conveniens is GRANTED.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice.