 Case Number:  22STCV37042    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  78 Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78  DANIEL HORWATH, et al, Plaintiffs; vs. S&H Packing & Sales Co., Inc., et al., Defendants.  Case No.:  22STCV37042 Hearing Date:  October 12, 2023    [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: DEFENDANTS S&H PACKING, ROBERTS UNDERWOOD, VIDO ARTUKOVICH, AND BUCHALTER’S ANTI-SLAPP MOTIONS TO STRIKE SHP’s motion is DENIED with respect to all causes of action except for the ninth cause of action. With respect to the ninth cause of action it is GRANTED in part, specifically it is granted with respect to the part of the cause of action based upon the filing of the Interpleader Action.The Director Defendants’ motion is DENIED with respect to all causes of action except for the ninth cause of action. With respect to the ninth cause of action it is GRANTED in part, specifically it is granted with respect to the part of the cause of action based upon the filing of the Interpleader Action.Buchalter’s motion is DENIED with respect to all causes of action except for the eleventh cause of action. With respect to the eleventh cause of action it is GRANTED in part, specifically it is granted with respect to part of the cause of action based upon the allegation that Buchalter presented false information to a court-appointed referee.Moving parties to provide notice.FACTUAL BACKGROUND This is an action to set aside fraudulent transfers, breach of fiduciary duty, intentional interference with prospective economic advantage, unjust enrichment, breach of contract, open book account, conversion, unjust enrichment, removal of directors, appointment of provisional directors, and injunctive relief in connection with a decision to dissolve S&H Packing & Sales Co., Inc. (“SHP”). Plaintiff owns one-third of the shares of SHP and is the trustee for the Daniel and Rosa Horwath Family Trust, which holds another one-third membership interest in S&H Farms, LLC (“SHF”). (Compl., ¶1.) In January 2022, SHP owed SHF a minimum of $1,655,597.28. (Id.)Violet Street Properties, LLC (“VSP”) is another creditor of SHP. (Compl., ¶2.) Plaintiff owned a one-third membership interest in VSP. (Id.) The other two members of VSP gave notice to dissolve VSP, leaving Plaintiff to become liquidating member of VSP. (Id.) VSP demanded that SHP pay VSP all amounts owed and turn over all VSP’s financial documents which SHP had in its custody. (Id.) Plaintiff terminated Defendants Buchalter, Williams, Hill, Farrer, & Burrill (“HFB”), and Tomasulo as attorneys because they also served as attorneys for SHP and a conflict of interest arose when VSP dissolved. (Id.)Defendants Roberts Underwood and Vido Artukovich are managers of SHF and were both former managers of VSP until Plaintiff terminated their manager positions in 2021. (Compl., ¶¶4-5.) In July and August 2021, the other two members of SHP elected to wind up and dissolve the company. (Compl., ¶10.) Plaintiff believes SHP sold various assets and maintained cash on hand totaling $2,082,040 and accounts receivables of $2,023, 552.89 in 2022. (Id.) Plaintiff believes that SHP ceased daily operations of its wholesale produce business in early 2022. (Id.)On July 7, 2022, SHP’s board of directors convened a special meeting where the board approved funds to be immediately paid to Buchalter (law firm), HFB (law firm), Knepper (CFO of SHP), Buxbaum (employer of Knepper), and Best, Best & Krieger (law firm) for future legal services and for future services by Knepper/Buxbaum totaling $3,140,000. (Compl., ¶¶13-16.) Plaintiff alleges that the transferred amounts were fraudulent and designed to harm Plaintiff and to benefit Defendant at the expense of Plaintiff as well as all creditors and shareholders of SHP. (Compl., ¶17.)On July 14, 2022, SHP filed an interpleader complaint in the matter 22STCV22810 (“Interpleader Action”) asserting that SHP only had $300,000 to pay creditors. (Compl., ¶18.) The court in the Interpleader Action advised Defendants’ counsel that the court intended to relate the Interpleader action to the 19STCV04536  matter, the action regarding the winding up of VSP. (Compl., ¶19.) SHP then dismissed the Interpleader Action. (Id.)Plaintiff alleges that SHP, Underwood, and Buchalter knowingly made false representations in the interpleader complaint. (Compl., ¶18.) Plaintiff also alleges that Defendants entered into a conspiracy to loot SHP’s assets and divert them for their own use and benefit to the detriment of SHP’s shareholders and creditors, including Plaintiff. (Compl., ¶21.)PROCEDURAL HISTORY On November 23, 2022, Plaintiff Daniel Horwath individually and as trustee of the Daniel and Rose Horwath Family Trust filed his Complaint against Defendants SHP, Underwood, Artukovich, Buchalter, HFB, Knepper, Buxbaum, HCS, and Best, Best & Krieger (“BBK”).On April 17, 2023, SHP filed its Special Motion to Strike.On April 20, 2023, Buchalter filed its Special Motion to Strike.On June 30, 2023, the Director Defendants filed their Special Motion to Strike.On July 7, 2023, the Court granted an ex parte motion filed by Artukovich and Underwood (“Director Defendants”) to advance their pending Anti-SLAPP motion to be heard concurrently with two Anti-SLAPP motions filed by SHP and Buchalter. On August 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed his opposition to the three special motions to strike.On August18, 2023, Buchalter, SHP, and the Director Defendants filed their replies.On August 21, 2023, the Director Defendants filed their joinder to Buchalter’s and SHP’s special motions to strike.DISCUSSION I.  JUDICIAL NOTICEThe court may take judicial notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial departments of the United States and of any state of the United States,” “[r]ecords¿of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452,¿subds. (c), (d), and (h).) Although a Court may take judicial notice of any record of any court in the United States, judicial notice is limited to the existence of a court’s action and not the truth of the facts found and recited. (Barri v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 428, 438.)SHP requests judicial notice of the following:1. The interpleader complaint filed in 22STCV22810.2. The Cross-Complaint filed by Daniel Horwath in the case BC695710.3. The Complaint filed in the case 21STCV47343.Buchalter requests judicial notice of the following:1. The Complaint filed in this matter, the notice of errata, and the Court’s January 11, 2023 orders relating matters.2. The interpleader complaint filed in 22STCV22810.3. The docket in the matter 22STCV22810. 4. The docket in the matter 22STCP03350.5. The wage claims filed by Ryan and Angela Horwath with the Department of Industrial Relations.6. The Appointment of Referee filed in the matter 19STCV04536.The Director Defendants request judicial notice of the following:1. Minute orders and pleadings from the matters BC618618, BS157776, BC634809, BC644305, BC695710, 18STCV09722, 19STCV04536, 21STCV09778, 21STCV47343, 22STCV22810, 22STCP03350, and 22STCV37042.Plaintiff requests judicial notice of the following:1. The interpleader complaint filed in 22STCV22810.2. The declaration of Marcus Williams filed in the matter BC705449.The parties’ requests for judicial notice are GRANTED as to every matter except the declaration of Marcus Williams. With respect to the court records, the Court will take judicial notice of the courts’ actions in the above-named cases, but not the truth of the facts recited in the records.II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONSThe Director Defendants object to Plaintiff’s evidence submitted in opposition to its special motion to strike.SHP also objects to Plaintiff’s evidence submitted in support of his opposition.The Court declines to rule on these objections as the consideration of Plaintiff’s evidence was not necessary to decide these motions. III. SHP’s SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKESHP filed a special motion to strike as to the entirety of Plaintiff’s Complaint. SHP alleges that this action arises from using SHP’s funds to fund legal proceedings and planning for litigation, specifically the filing of the interpleader complaint in the Interpleader Action, and as such is subject to this motion to strike.In assessing a defendant’s section 425.16 special motion to strike, the court must engage in a twostep process. (Shekhter v. Financial Indem. Co. (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 141, 150.) First, the court must decide whether the defendant has met the threshold burden of showing that the plaintiff’s cause of action arises from the defendant’s constitutional rights of free speech or petition for redress of grievances. (Id.) This burden may be met by showing the act which forms the basis for the plaintiff's cause of action was an act that falls within one of the four categories of conduct set forth in 425.16(e). If the defendant meets his initial burden, then the burden shifts to the plaintiff to establish a probability that the plaintiff will prevail on the claim—i.e., present facts which would, if proved at trial, support a judgment in the plaintiff’s favor.  (Id. at 15051.) In making its determination of the anti-SLAPP motion, the court shall consider the pleadings, and supporting and opposing affidavits stating the facts upon which the liability or defense is based. (Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16(b)(2).) However, the court does not “weigh credibility [nor] compare the weight of the evidence. Rather, [the court] accepts as true the evidence favorable to the plaintiff and evaluates the defendant’s evidence only to determine if it has defeated that submitted by the plaintiff as a matter of law.” (Flatley v. Mauro (2006) 39 Cal.4th 299, 326.) A. Protected ActivityMoving parties have the initial burden to demonstrate that a cause of action is subject to a special motion to strike. (Martinez v. Metabolife Inter. Ins. (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 181, 186; Fox Searchlight Pictures Inc. v. Paladino (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 294, 304.) Specifically, courts decide whether moving parties have made a prima facie showing that the attacked claims arise from a protected activity, including defendants’ right of petition, or free speech, under the Constitution, in connection with issues of public interest. (Healy v. Tuscany Hills Landscape & Recreation Corp. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 1, 5; Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260, 278; Paulus v. Bob Lynch Ford, Inc. (2006) 139 Cal.App.4th 659, 671; Equilon Ent. v. Consumer Cause (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 67; Gov. Gray Davis Committee v. Amer. Taxpayers Alliance (2002) 102 Cal.App.4th 449, 458-59; CCP §425.16(e).) Moving parties can satisfy their burden by showing that causes of action arise from (1) statements made before legislative, executive or judicial proceedings, or made in connection with matters being considered in such proceedings, or (2) statements made in a public forum, or other conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional rights of petition or free speech, in connection with issues of public interest. (CCP §425.16(e); Equilon Ent., LLC v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 66.)“A claim arises from protected activity when that activity underlies or forms the basis for the claim.” (Park v. Board of Trustees of California State University (2017) 2 Cal.5th 1057, 1062.) “‘defendant’s act underlying the plaintiff’s cause of action must itself have been an act in furtherance of the right of petition or free speech.’”  (Id. at 1063 (quoting City of Cotati v. Cashman (2002) 29 Cal.4th 69, 78) (emphasis in original).) “‘[T]he mere fact that an action was filed after protected activity took place does not mean the action arose from that activity for the purposes of the anti-SLAPP statute.’” Id. (quoting Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 89).) “Instead, the focus is on determining what ‘the defendant’s activity [is] that gives rise to his or her asserted liability—and whether that activity constitutes protected speech or petitioning.’” (Id. (quoting Navellier, supra, 29 Cal.4th at 92) (alteration in original).) “‘The only means specified in section 425.16 by which a moving defendant can satisfy that [‘arising from’] requirement is to demonstrate that the defendant’s conduct by which plaintiff claims to have been injured falls within one of the four categories described in subdivision (e) . . . .’”  (Id. (quoting Equilon Enterprises v. Consumer Cause, Inc. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 53, 66) (emphasis in original).)  “In short, in ruling on an anti-SLAPP motion, courts should consider the elements of the challenged claim and what actions by defendant supply those elements and consequently form the basis for liability.”  (Id.)“Allegations of a protected activity that merely provide context, without supporting a claim for recovery, cannot be stricken under the anti-SLAPP statute.” (Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 395.) The legislature indicated that particular alleged acts giving rise to a claim for relief may be the object of an anti-SLAPP motion. (Id.) In cases involving allegations of both protected and unprotected activity, the plaintiff is required to establish a probability of prevailing on any claim for relief based on allegations of protected activity. (Id.) Neither the form of the complaint nor the primary right at stake is determinative. (Id.) “Analysis of an anti-SLAPP motion is not confined to evaluating whether an entire cause of action, as pleaded by the plaintiff, arises from protected activity or has merit. Instead, courts should analyze each claim for relief — each act or set of acts supplying a basis for relief, of which there may be several in a single pleaded cause of action — to determine whether the acts are protected and, if so, whether the claim they give rise to has the requisite degree of merit to survive the motion. (Bonni v. St. Joseph Health System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1010.) “If a cause of action contains multiple claims and a moving party fails to identify how the speech or conduct underlying some of those claims is protected activity, it will not carry its first-step burden as to those claims. (Id at p. 1012.) Here, Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges that Plaintiff was injured as a creditor because the transfer of funds to SHP’s attorneys left SHP insolvent and unable to pay creditors, including VSP, the company that Plaintiff is a liquidating member of. (Compl., ¶¶26, 31, 33, 40, 45, 47, 48, 54, 80.) Additionally, Plaintiff alleges that the transfers injured his interest in SHP’s assets as a shareholder because the transfers left SHP unable to distribute any remaining funds to shareholders once the company was wound down. (Compl., ¶¶22, 24, 25, 32, 33, 40, 45, 52, 55, 80.) SHP provides its board meeting minutes showing that the funds were diverted for the purpose of funding litigation. The meeting minutes state that the Interpleader Action and other future threatened litigation would exhaust SHP’s funds. (SHP Motion, Exh. 1, p. 11.) Litigation costs would leave SHP unable to satisfy its obligations unless a reasonable amount was withheld to cover anticipated litigation costs. (Id.) HFB estimated that a budget of $1,225,000 was reasonable and necessary to cover anticipated attorney’s fees relating to ongoing cases S&H Packing & Sales Co Inc. v. Daniel Horwath, JAMS Case No. 12200071999, Daniel Horwath v. S&H Packing & Sales Co Inc., JAMS Case No. 5220001056 (collectively “Daniel Horwath Cases”), and Nadine Oddo v. S&H Packing & Sales Co Inc., et al. (LASC Case No. 21STCV09778) (“Oddo Claim”). (Id.) Buchalter estimated a budget of $650,000 was reasonable and necessary to cover anticipated attorney’s fees for Angela Horwath v. S&H Packing & Sales dba Season Produce, Cal. Dept. of Ind. Rel. Case No. WC-CM-870440, Ryan Horwath v. S&H Packing & Sales dba Season Produce and Horwath & Co. dba Gonzalez Packing Company, Cal. Dept. of Ind. Rel. Case No. WC-CM-870439 (together, the “Labor Complaints”), and unpaid leave claims brought by Patrick, Timothy, Thomas, Angela, and Ryan Horwath (“Horwath Family Employment Claims”). (Id.)  The board of directors agreed to deposit $1,225,000 in HFB’s trust account for attorney’s fees and litigation costs related to the Oddo Claim and Daniel Horwath Claims or any other litigation brought by Nadine Oddo and Daniel Horwath. (Id at p.12.) The board agreed to deposit $650,000 in Buchalter’s trust account for attorney’s fees and costs associated with the Labor Complaints and the Horwath Family Employment Claims. (Id at p.13.)The causes of action alleged against SHP are as follows: (1) set aside of fraudulent transfers (COA 1); (2) breach of fiduciary duty (COA 2); (3) intentional interference with prospective economic advantage (COA 3); (4) breach of contract (COA 5); (5) open book (COA 6); (6) conversion (COA 7); (7) removal of directors (COA 9); (8) appointment of provisional directors (COA 10); and (9) injunctive relief (COA 11).1. First Cause of Action – Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act (“UFTA”)In California, a fraudulent conveyance under the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act (“UFTA”) arises where a transfer made by a debtor was (1) made with the actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud any creditor or (2) made without receiving a reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the transfer and the debtor either was engaged in or about to engage in a business or transaction for which the debtor’s assets were unreasonably small or  the debtor intended to incur, or believed or reasonably should have believed that the debtor would incur, debts beyond the debtor’s ability to pay as they came due. (Civ. Code, § 3439.04(a).)Furthermore, a transfer made by a debtor is fraudulent as to a creditor whose claim arose prior to the transfer if the debtor made the transfer without receiving a reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the transfer and the debtor was insolvent at that time or the debtor became insolvent as a result of the transfer. (Civ. Code, § 3439.05.)Here, Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges that Defendants were aware that SHP’s shareholders expected to receive a distribution of SHP’s assets and that SHP’s creditors expected to be paid in full from SHP’s assets. (Compl., ¶32.) SHP transferred $3,140,000 for the benefit of Defendants in July 2022. (Compl., ¶32.) The transfers were fraudulent and intended to hinder, delay, and defraud SHP’s creditors. (Compl., ¶33.) The transfers were made without SHP receiving reasonably equivalent value in exchange for the transfer because they were made for future services to be performed by Williams, Buchalter, Tomasulo, HFB, Knepper, Buxbaum, and BBK for the benefit of SHP and its officers. (Compl., ¶33.) SHP argues that the protected activity giving rise to every cause of action, including this cause of action, is SHP’s decision “in selecting and paying attorneys and the litigation conduct of its lawyers for petitioning the courts for a judicially-supervised dissolution through different options like interpleader.” (SHP Motion, p. 16.) Here, the conduct giving rise to liability is the alleged transfer of the funds when SHP had prior creditors who were owed money. In Manlin v. Miller (2022) 298 Cal.App.5th 1004, 1019-1020 the Court of Appeal held that in a case where it was alleged that company funds were diverted to fund legal expenses, the protected activity of funding the payment of legal expenses was not cause of the alleged harm, but rather the diversion of funds in the first instance. Or in other words in that instance “no element of [Plaintiff’s] claim depends on the purpose of that diversion, but only on the diversion itself and whether it constituted self-dealing. The diversion may have been to further some protected activity . . . . but that purpose does not convert [Plaintiff’s] suit to one arising from the protected activity.” (Id. at p. 1020.) A claim is not based on the purpose of a diversion of funds merely because the defendant did in fact use the funds to support a protected activity. (Gaynor v. Bulen (2018) 19 Cal.App.5th 864, 881.) With respect to the allegation regarding the filing of the Interpleader Action which is alleged in the introductory allegations and incorporated by reference into this cause of action, this allegation merely provides context and cannot support a claim for recovery here. As such, it cannot be stricken under the anti-SLAPP statute. (Baral v. Schnitt  (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 394..) For these reasons, Defendant SHP has not met its burden with respect demonstrating that this cause of action arises from a protected activity.2. Second Cause of Action – Breach of fiduciary dutyThe elements for a breach of fiduciary duty cause of action are “the existence of a fiduciary relationship, its breach, and damage proximately caused by that breach.” (Thomson v. Canyon (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 594, 604.)Here, Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges that Defendants owed fiduciary duties to SHP and its shareholders because they were SHP’s officers, directors, or managers. (Compl., ¶¶36-38.) Defendants Underwood, Artukovich, and Knepper, as officers of SHP, breached their fiduciary duties by, doing the following:a. Making decisions without conducting proper due diligence b. taking and authorizing actions in bad faith and to the financial detriment of SHP and its shareholdersc. acting in their own interests to the detriment of SHP, SHF, and their respective shareholders and membersd. failing to maximize the assets and valuations of the respective entities for which they owed fiduciary dutiese. acting in disregard of their conflicts of interest and refusing to abstain from decisions when conflicts of interest were clearly presentf. authorizing the transfer of $3,140,000 of SHP’s assets to the detriment of SHP’s creditors and shareholders so that they could and would personally benefit from such transfers. g. withholding financial information from plaintiff and his agents and denying access to such financial information without justification h. causing payments to BUCHALTER, HFB, BUXBAUM, BBK and other advisors and entities without (sic)i. failing and refusing to dissolve Horwath & Co. so as to benefit Timothy Horwath and his family instead of acting in the best interests of S&H and its shareholdersj. failing and refusing to have SHP pay the amounts it owed to SHF and VSP because they knew that any payments to SHF and/or VSP would be distributed to the members of SHF and VSP, including plaintiffk. intentionally withholding financial information regarding SHP from director Nadine Oddol. failing and refusing to shut down the business operations of SHP despite demands to do so by SHP’s shareholders (Compl., ¶40.) Buchalter, HFB, Buxbaum, and BBK aided these breaches by facilitating and advising the other Defendants to breach their fiduciary duties to SHP. (Comp., ¶41.) As a result of this and other breaches, SHP, its creditors, and shareholders suffered damages. (Comp., ¶42.) The facts with respect to this cause of action are akin to those in Manlin, v. Milner (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 1004.) as discussed above. The allegations do not implicate protected activity for the same reasons. Moreover, numerous theories of breach of fiduciary duty are alleged that have nothing to do with the transfer of the funds or with litigation, including failure to maximize the value of assets and conflicts of interest.With respect to the allegation regarding the filing of the Interpleader Action which is alleged in the introductory allegations and incorporated by reference into this cause of action, this allegation merely provides context and cannot support a claim for recovery here. As such, it cannot be stricken under the anti-SLAPP statute. (Baral v. Schnitt  (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 394..) For these reasons, Defendant SHP has not met its burden with respect demonstrating that this cause of action arises from a protected activity.3. Third Cause of Action – Intentional interference with prospective economic advantageThe elements of a claim for intentional interference with prospective economic advantage include “(1) an economic relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of the relationship; (3) intentional or negligent acts on the part of the defendant designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the acts of the defendant.” (Crown Imports, LLC v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 1395, 1404.) Further, “the alleged interference must have been wrongful by some measure beyond the fact of the interference itself. For an act to be sufficiently independently wrongful, it must be unlawful, that is, it is proscribed by some constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or other determinable legal standard.” (Id.)Here, Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges that each Defendant was aware that SHP was winding down and that its creditors were to be paid in full, with the remaining proceeds to be distributed to SHP’s shareholders, including Plaintiff. (Compl., ¶45.) As of April 2022, SHP had assets in excess of $4 million. (Compl., ¶46.) Defendants intentionally engaged in a scheme to fraudulently transfer $3,340,000 from SHP to the defendants to disrupt Plaintiff’s economic relationships with SHP, SHF, and VSP. (Compl., ¶¶47-48.) As a result of Defendants’ interference, SHP has only $300,000 to pay all of its creditors and shareholders. (Compl. ¶48.) This cause of action, like the others discussed above, is based on the premise that funds were diverted. For this reason, like the other causes of action discussed, the basis for liability is the diversion of the funds, not the purpose for which they were diverted.With respect to the allegation regarding the filing of the Interpleader Action which is alleged in the introductory allegations and incorporated by reference into this cause of action, this allegation merely provides context and cannot support a claim for recovery here. As such, it cannot be stricken under the anti-SLAPP statute. (Baral v. Schnitt  (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 394..) For these reasons, Defendant SHP has not met its burden with respect demonstrating that this cause of action arises from a protected activity.4. Fifth Cause of Action – Breach of ContractTo state a cause of action for breach of contract, a plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.)Here, Plaintiff’s Complaint states that in February 2019, VSP and SHP entered into a written lease wherein SHP was the tenant and VASP was the landlord. (Compl., ¶59.) SHP breached the lease by failing to pay rent for August through October of 2021. (Compl., ¶60.) Plaintiff, a liquidating member of VSP, seeks damages against SHP in the amount of $112,500, interest, and attorney’s fees and costs. (Compl., ¶60.) This  claim arises from SHP’s failure to pay VSP rent. This is not protected activity because it is not conduct in furtherance of the exercise of the constitutional right of petition or any other protected activity enumerated under Code Civ. Proc., section 425.16.With respect to the allegation regarding the filing of the Interpleader Action which is alleged in the introductory allegations and incorporated by reference into this cause of action, this allegation merely provides context and cannot support a claim for recovery here. As such, it cannot be stricken under the anti-SLAPP statute. (Baral v. Schnitt  (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 394..) For these reasons, Defendant SHP has not met its burden with respect demonstrating that this cause of action arises from a protected activity.5. Sixth Cause of Action – Open Book Account“A book account may furnish the basis for an action on a common count . . . when it contains a statement of the debits and credits of the transactions involved completely enough to supply evidence from which it can be reasonably determined what amount is due to the claimant.  A book account is described as ‘open’ when the debtor has made some payment on the account, leaving a balance due.”  (Interstate Group Administrators, Inc. v. Cravens, Dargan & Co. (1985) 174 Cal.App.3d 700, 708.)Here, the Complaint alleges that an open book account exists between SHP and VSP because SHP’s own financial records show it owes VSP $450,001.17. (Compl., ¶63.) This debt does not appear to be related to the transfers to the law firm defendants because this debt was the amount SHP owed VSP as of August 31, 2021. (Compl., ¶62.) Therefore, this cause of action arises from the preexisting debts SHP owed VSP and not the alleged protected activity. With respect to the allegation regarding the filing of the Interpleader Action which is alleged in the introductory allegations and incorporated by reference into this cause of action, this allegation merely provides context and cannot support a claim for recovery here. As such, it cannot be stricken under the anti-SLAPP statute. (Baral v. Schnitt  (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 394..) For these reasons, Defendant SHP has not met its burden with respect demonstrating that this cause of action arises from a protected activity.6. Seventh Cause of Action – ConversionTo plead a cause of action for conversion, one must allege (1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of personal property; (2) defendant’s disposition of the property inconsistent with plaintiff’s rights; and (3) resulting damages. (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.)  Here, the Complaint alleges that the 2019 lease between VSP and SHP required SHP to perform accounting and bookkeeping services for VSP. (Comp., ¶65.) SHP took possession of VSP’s books, records, and bank accounts. (Compl., ¶66.) After Plaintiff became a liquidating member of VSP, Plaintiff demanded that SHP make immediate payment of the amounts owed to VSP and turn over VSP’s financial documents, checkbooks, and bank statements. (Compl., ¶66.) SHP and the Director Defendants refused. (Compl., ¶67.) On October 21, 2021 and November 22, 2021, SHP transferred funds to HFB from VSP’s bank account without VSP’s permission. (Compl., ¶¶68-69.)This cause of action arises from the withholding of VSP’s financial records and the transfer of funds from VSP’s bank account to HFB. The transfers took place in October and November 2021 and are thus not the same transfers as the July 2022 transfers allegedly used to fund litigation. The transfers were justified as “inter-company transfers” from VSP to SHP made on behalf of SHP. (Compl., ¶74.) This cause of action does not arise from the protected activity alleged by SHP. With respect to the allegation regarding the filing of the Interpleader Action which is alleged in the introductory allegations and incorporated by reference into this cause of action, this allegation merely provides context and cannot support a claim for recovery here. As such, it cannot be stricken under the anti-SLAPP statute. (Baral v. Schnitt  (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 394..) For these reasons, Defendant SHP has not met its burden with respect demonstrating that this cause of action arises from a protected activity.7. Ninth Cause of Action – Removal of DirectorsCorp. Code, section 304 provides that “the superior court of the proper county may, at the suit of shareholders holding at least 10 percent of the number of outstanding shares of any class, remove from office any director in case of fraudulent or dishonest acts or gross abuse of authority or discretion with reference to the corporation and may bar from reelection any director so removed for a period prescribed by the court. The corporation shall be made a party to such action.”Here, Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges that the Director Defendants engaged in and continue to loot SHP’s assets, knowingly filed a false verified Complaint, and set up a fund for their own use to the detriment of SHP’s shareholders and creditors. (Compl., ¶80.) Here, there is both protected and unprotected activity alleged as the basis of liability. With respect to the alleged looting of the assets of SHP and the transfer of funds, for the reasons discussed earlier, no protected activity is at issue.However, the filing of the Interpleader Action is included in the conduct alleged to form the basis for the alleged statutory violation.SHP has met its burden with respect to that part of the cause of action that relies on the filing of the Interpleader Action.  Otherwise, it has not met its burden.8. Tenth Cause of Action – Appointment of Provisional DirectorsCorporations Code, section 308 provides that a court may appoint provisional directors in two situations:“a) If a corporation has an even number of directors who are equally divided and cannot agree as to the management of its affairs, so that its business can no longer be conducted to advantage or so that there is danger that its property and business will be impaired or lost, the superior court of the proper county may, notwithstanding any provisions of the articles or bylaws and whether or not an action is pending for an involuntary winding up or dissolution of the corporation, appoint a provisional director pursuant to this section. Action for such appointment may be brought by any director or by the holders of not less than 33 ¿ percent of the voting power.b) If the shareholders of a corporation are deadlocked so that they cannot elect the directors to be elected at an annual meeting of shareholders, the superior court of the proper county may, notwithstanding any provisions of the articles or bylaws, upon petition of a shareholder or shareholders holding 50 percent of the voting power, appoint a provisional director or directors pursuant to this section or order such other equitable relief as the court deems appropriate.”(Corp. Code, section 308)Here, Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges that SHP has three directors, Underwood, Artukovich, and Oddo. (Compl., ¶82.) Underwood and Artukovich voted to override Oddo to act in favor and Patrick and Timothy Horwath and against Plaintiff. (Compl., ¶83.) Unless provisional directors are appointed, SHP and Plaintiff will suffer irreparable harm. (Compl., ¶84.) This cause of action arises from a conflict between SHP’s three directors. It does not arise from any protected conduct. With respect to the allegation regarding the filing of the Interpleader Action which is alleged in the introductory allegations and incorporated by reference into this cause of action, this allegation merely provides context and cannot support a claim for recovery here. As such, it cannot be stricken under the anti-SLAPP statute. (Baral v. Schnitt  (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 394..) For these reasons, Defendant SHP has not met its burden with respect demonstrating that this cause of action arises from a protected activity.9. Eleventh Cause of Action – Injunctive ReliefPlaintiff’s Complaint does not set forth a statute or other legal authority under which he seeks injunctive relief. The Complaint alleges that as a liquidating member of VSP, Plaintiff was required to prepare a statement of VSP’s assets and liabilities for distribution to the members of VSP, and to liquidate the assets and property of VSP. (Compl., ¶87.) SHP, the Director Defendants, and Buchalter refused to return VSP’s books and records and falsified the records to nullify the amounts SHP owed to VSP. (Compl., ¶88.) In August 2022, these Defendants presented a court-appointed referee with records listing the professional fees owed to VSP for 2021 was $99,456. (Compl., ¶89.) However, they later increased the professional fees incurred by VSP for 2021 by $500,000 without Plaintiff’s knowledge or approval. (Compl., ¶89.) When the referee informed the members of VSP about this change, the members objected. (Compl., ¶90.) The referee advised Buchalter that it was inappropriate to increase VSP’s professional fees on its income statement. (Compl., ¶92.) As a result of the change, VSP is unable to file its tax returns. (Compl., ¶93.) Plaintiff seeks injunctive relief preventing SHP, Knepper, Buxbaum, the Director Defendants, and Buchalter from altering, reviewing, or maintaining VSP’s financial and business records. (Compl., ¶94.)This claim arises from a dispute over VSP’s Income Statement, which was changed to reflect higher professional fees for 2021. It is not related to SHP’s Interpleader Action or its allocation of funds to pay anticipated legal fees. Therefore, the claim does not arise from activity performed in furtherance of SHP’s protected right to petition. With respect to the allegation regarding the filing of the Interpleader Action which is alleged in the introductory allegations and incorporated by reference into this cause of action, this allegation merely provides context and cannot support a claim for recovery here. As such, it cannot be stricken under the anti-SLAPP statute. (Baral v. Schnitt  (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 394..) For these reasons, Defendant SHP has not met its burden with respect demonstrating that this cause of action arises from a protected activity.B. Probability of Success at TrialSHP met its burden for the first prong as to the causes of action for removal of directors (Ninth Cause of Action) with respect to the allegation concerning the filing of the Interpleader Action. If the defendant meets its initial burden to show its activity is protected by the ant-SLAPP statute, then the burden shifts to the plaintiff to prove he has a legally sufficient claim and to prove with admissible evidence a probability of prevailing on the claim. (De Havilland v. FX Networks, LLC¿(2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 845, 855.) The trial court considers the pleadings and evidence of both parties. (Ibid.) The plaintiff’s proof must be made upon competent admissible evidence. (Sweetwater Union High School Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019) 6 Cal.5th 931, 940.) The court “does not weigh evidence or resolve conflicting factual claims.” (Ibid.) The court’s inquiry “is limited to whether the plaintiff has stated a legally sufficient claim and made a prima facie factual showing sufficient to sustain a favorable judgment” accepting the plaintiff’s evidence as true. (Ibid.) “The court evaluates the defendant’s showing only to determine if it defeats the plaintiff’s claim as a matter of law. [Citation.] ‘[C]laims with the requisite minimal merit may proceed.’” (Id.; see also Navellier v. Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 89.)¿ Plaintiff argues that because Defendants failed to meet their burden to show this claim arose from protected activity, Plaintiff was not required to establish the merit of those claims. Thus, Plaintiff fails to meet his burden of showing he has a probability of prevailing on this claim at trial. SHP’s special motion to strike is granted with respect to the ninth cause of action with respect to the theory of liability based on the filing of the Interpleader Action.IV. The Director Defendants’ Special Motion to StrikeThe Director Defendants are named under the causes of action for (1) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (2) Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage, (3) Conversion, (4) Removal of Directors, (5) Appointment of Provisional Directors, and (6) Injunctive Relief. A. Protected ActivityThe Director Defendants allege that the following activity is protected:1. SHP’s interpleader action: This activity is protected because it is a written or oral statement or writing made before a judicial proceeding under Code Civ. Proc., section 425.16(e)(1).2. Planning, pursuing, and funding: This activity is protected because they are acts in connection with litigation under Code Civ. Proc., section 425.16(e)(2).3. Winding up SHP: This activity is protected because it is related to SHP’s Court Supervision Petition and SHP’s 2017 settlement agreement. The court presiding over the original lawsuit continues to have jurisdiction over the settlement agreement. Therefore, the winding up of SHP is connected to litigation under Code Civ. Proc., section 425.16(e)(2).4. The Director Defendants’ refusal to dissolve Horwath & Co.: This activity is also protected because it is related to SHP’s 2017 settlement agreement. It is connected to litigation under Code Civ. Proc., section 425.16(e)(2).A settlement agreement executed in the context of active litigation is made in connection with an issue under consideration or review by a judicial body. (O&C Creditors Group, LLC v. Stephens & Stephens XII, LLC (2019) 42 Cal.App.5th 546, 566.) Negotiation and the execution of a settlement agreement are also protected activities. (Id at p.568.) However, a claim for breach of a settlement agreement does not arise from protected activity because the settlement agreement is incidental to the breach. (Old Republic Construction Program Group v. The Boccardo Law Firm, Inc. (2014) 230 Cal.App.4th 859, 869.) Breach of a settlement agreement cannot arise from protected activity because it would follow that every suit to enforce a settlement would meet the first prong of an anti-slapp motion, greatly diminishing the utility of a settlement agreement and the incentive to settle disputes. (Id at p.870.)Here, the Director Defendants provide a copy of a 2017 settlement agreement, which the Horwath family, their companies, and other parties reached to resolve four lawsuits. (Director Defendants’ request for judicial notice, vol. 3, Exh. A.) The agreement states that the Horwath brothers agreed that their entities and orchard would be marketed for sale and the proceeds of any sale shall be divided equally among the brothers and their wives. (Id at p.3.) These entities included SHP and Horwath & Co. (Id at p.1.)1. Second Cause of Action – Breach of Fiduciary DutyThe elements for a breach of fiduciary duty cause of action are “the existence of a fiduciary relationship, its breach, and damage proximately caused by that breach.” (Thomson v. Canyon (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 594, 604.)Here, as discussed in SHP’s special motion to strike, Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges that the Director Defendants breached their fiduciary duties by authorizing the transfer of SHP’s assets to the detriment of its creditors and shareholders, failing and refusing to dissolve Horwath & Co., failing and refusing to have SHP pay its debts to VSP, and other conduct. (Compl., ¶40.) The Director Defendants allege that this claim arises from the second, third, and fourth categories of protected activity. Specifically, the allegation that the transfer of SHP’s funds to the law firm defendants for future litigation expenses is protected activity. The Court finds that this claim does not arise from the funding of litigation for the same reasons as in SHP’s motion. The facts of this case are more akin to Manlin, v. Milner (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 1004, where a court ruled that the diversion of funds itself gives rise to a claim for breach of fiduciary duty, not the purpose of the diversion. Here, Plaintiff’s claim for breach of fiduciary duty arises from the diversion of funds itself, not the purpose of the diversion.With respect to the settlement agreement, essentially Director Defendants contend that because the settlement agreement contemplated the winding down of SHP and Horwath & Co. any actions they took (or did not take) are covered by the terms of the settlement agreement and therefore arise from protected activity. However, the Director Defendants were not parties to the settlement agreement (RJN, Exh.8, Attached Exh. A) and provide no authority for the contention that their actions as nonparties are covered under the umbrella of any protected activity relating to the settlement agreement.With respect to the contention that any action by the Director Defendants relating to SHP arise from protected activity  since the actions arise from SHP’s Petition for Court Supervision which was granted by the court, that contention suffers from the same defect as the one above. The petitioning party  in that case was the corporate entity, SHP, not the Director Defendants (RJN, Ex. 19).With respect to the allegation regarding the filing of the Interpleader Action which is alleged in the introductory allegations and incorporated by reference into this cause of action, this allegation merely provides context and cannot support a claim for recovery here. As such, it cannot be stricken under the anti-SLAPP statute. (Baral v. Schnitt  (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 394..) For these reasons, Director Defendants have not met their burden with respect demonstrating that this cause of action arises from a protected activity..2. Third Cause of Action – Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic AdvantageThe analysis here is the same as that set forth above with respect to SHP and the ruling is the same.3. Seventh Cause of Action – ConversionThe analysis here is the same as that set forth above with respect to SHP and the ruling is the same.4. Ninth Cause of Action – Removal of DirectorsThe analysis here is the same that set forth above with respect to SHP and the ruling is the same.5. Tenth Cause of Action – Appointment of Provisional DirectorsCorporations Code, section 308 provides that a court may appoint provisional directors in two situations:“a) If a corporation has an even number of directors who are equally divided and cannot agree as to the management of its affairs, so that its business can no longer be conducted to advantage or so that there is danger that its property and business will be impaired or lost, the superior court of the proper county may, notwithstanding any provisions of the articles or bylaws and whether or not an action is pending for an involuntary winding up or dissolution of the corporation, appoint a provisional director pursuant to this section. Action for such appointment may be brought by any director or by the holders of not less than 33 ¿ percent of the voting power.b) If the shareholders of a corporation are deadlocked so that they cannot elect the directors to be elected at an annual meeting of shareholders, the superior court of the proper county may, notwithstanding any provisions of the articles or bylaws, upon petition of a shareholder or shareholders holding 50 percent of the voting power, appoint a provisional director or directors pursuant to this section or order such other equitable relief as the court deems appropriate.”(Corp. Code, section 308)The Complaint alleges that the dispute between SHP’s directors rendered SHP unable to conduct its business or dissolve and wind up in an orderly mannerHere, the Director Defendants argue that this claim arises from protected activity because it arises from the 2017 settlement agreement. Any argument along these lines fails for the same reasons discussed under the cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty as applied to the Director Defendants.Moreover this claim arises from an alleged dispute between SHP’s three directors and does not arise from protected activity. With respect to the allegation regarding the filing of the Interpleader Action which is alleged in the introductory allegations and incorporated by reference into this cause of action, this allegation merely provides context and cannot support a claim for recovery here. As such, it cannot be stricken under the anti-SLAPP statute. (Baral v. Schnitt  (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 394..) For these reasons, Director Defendants have not met their burden with respect demonstrating that this cause of action arises from a protected activity.6. Eleventh Cause of Action – Injunctive ReliefThe analysis here is the same as that set forth above with respect to SHP and the ruling is the same.B. Probability of Success at TrialThe same analysis and ruling as set forth under the portion of the decision relating to SHP applies here.V. Buchalter’s Special Motion to StrikeBuchalter is named under the causes of action for (1) Violation of the UFTA, (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (3) Unjust Enrichment, and (4) Injunctive Relief. Buchalter alleges that Plaintiff’s claims against Buchalter arise from petitioning activity arise from actions Buchalter took during litigation on behalf of its client, SHP. Specifically, Buchalter alleges that its actions presenting information to a court-appointed referee were undertaken during litigation on behalf of SHP, as well as the filing of Interpleader Action.Petitioning activity, including communications that are intimately intertwined with, and preparatory to, the filing of judicial proceedings is protected activity. (Cabral v. Martins (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 471, 480.) Petitioning activity committed by attorneys on behalf of a client is also protected. (Id.)A. Protected Activity1. First Cause of Action – Set Aside Fraudulent TransfersThe same analysis and ruling applies as that set forth above for this cause of action with respect to SPH.2. Second Cause of Action – Breach of Fiduciary DutyThe elements for a breach of fiduciary duty cause of action are “the existence of a fiduciary relationship, its breach, and damage proximately caused by that breach.” (Thomson v. Canyon (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 594, 604.)Here, Plaintiff’s Complaint alleges that the Buchalter breached its fiduciary duty by  facilitating and advising the Director Defendants to breach their fiduciary duties by causing the transfer of SHP’s assets to the law firm defendants. (Compl., ¶41.) As discussed in SHP’s and the Director Defendants’ special motions to strike, the facts of this case are more akin to Manlin, v. Milner (2022) 82 Cal.App.5th 1004, where a court ruled that the diversion of funds itself gives rise to a claim for breach of fiduciary duty, not the purpose of the diversion. Here, Plaintiff’s claim for breach of fiduciary duty arises from the diversion of funds itself, not the purpose of the diversion.With respect to the allegation regarding the filing of the Interpleader Action which is alleged in the introductory allegations and incorporated by reference into this cause of action, this allegation merely provides context and cannot support a claim for recovery here. As such, it cannot be stricken under the anti-SLAPP statute. (Baral v. Schnitt  (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 394..) For these reasons, Defendant Buchalter has not met its burden with respect demonstrating that this cause of action arises from a protected activity.3. Fourth Cause of Action – Unjust Enrichment“The elements of an unjust enrichment claim are the receipt of a benefit and the unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of another.” (Peterson v. Cellco P’ship (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1583, 1593.) “Unjust enrichment is not a cause of action, however, or even a remedy, but rather a general principle, underlying various legal doctrines and remedies. It is synonymous with restitution.” (Rutherford Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 231.) This cause of action alleges that Buchalter and other recipients of the fund transfers were unjustly enriched at the expense of SHP’s creditors and shareholders. Since this essentially is a restitution request and is derivative of the causes of action for fraudulent transfer and breach of fiduciary duty, the analysis is the same as for those substantive causes of action. With respect to the allegation regarding the filing of the Interpleader Action which is alleged in the introductory allegations and incorporated by reference into this cause of action, this allegation merely provides context and cannot support a claim for recovery here. As such, it cannot be stricken under the anti-SLAPP statute. (Baral v. Schnitt  (2016) 1 Cal.5th 376, 394..) For these reasons, Defendant Buchalter has not met its burden with respect demonstrating that this cause of action arises from a protected activity.4. Eleventh Cause of Action – Injunctive ReliefWith one exception, this cause of action does not arise from protected activity for the same reasons as in SHP’s and the Director Defendants’ motions. This claim arises from a dispute over VSP’s Income Statement, which SHP changed to reflect higher professional fees for 2021. It is not related to SHP’s interpleader action or its allocation of funds to pay anticipated legal fees. Therefore, the claim does not arise from activity performed in furtherance of Buchalter’s protected right to petition. The exception is a portion of paragraph 88 which alleges that Buchalter presented false information to a court-appointed referee in a case in which Buchalter represented SPH. Buchalter has met its burden with respect to this allegation.B. Probability of Success at TrialPlaintiff did not brief the merits of the eleventh cause of action. There, Buchalter’s motion is partially granted as to this cause of action.DATED: October 12, 2023 ________________________________ Hon. Jill Feeney Judge of the Superior Court 