  Case Number:  23STCV05533    Hearing Date:   December 2, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JANE DOE, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
KEVIN YOUNG A/K/A KEVIN
YOUNG COMMANDER OF THE
BRITISH EMPIRE, individually;
and PROPERTIES GB7 LLC, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.     
 
 
AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION.
 
                          


 


     
  CASE NO.:  23STCV05533
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO TRANSFER VENUE
FROM LOS ANGELES COUNTY TO
VENTURA COUNTY
 
Date: December 2, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
Kevin Young (“Young”) and Properties GB7 LLC (“GB7”) (collectively, “Defendants”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Jane Doe (“Plaintiff”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This action arises out of an employment
relationship.  The operative First
Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleges: (1) Sexual Battery; (2) Sexual Assault; (3) Gender
Violence; (4) Sexual Harassment and Harassment Based on Sex, Gender, National
Origin, and Race in Violation of the Fair Employment and Housing Act [Cal.
Gov’t Code §12940(j)]; (5) Constructive Discharge in Violation of Public Policy;
and (6) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.  Defendant’s Cross-Complaint alleges: (1)
conspiracy to defraud; (2) breach of fiduciary duty; (3) breach of contract;
(4) conversion; (5) money had and received; and (6) money paid.
 
            On October 31, 2024, Defendants
filed the instant Motion to Transfer Venue from Los Angeles County to Ventura County
(the “Motion”).  Plaintiff filed an
opposition to the Motion on November 15, 20024, and Defendants filed a reply on
November 21, 2024.
 
DISCUSSION
             Code of Civil Procedure section
395(a) states: “Except as otherwise provided by law and subject to the power of
the court to transfer actions or proceedings as provided in this title, the
superior court in the county where the defendants or some of them reside at the
commencement of the action is the proper court for the trial of the action. If
the action is for injury to person or personal property or for death from
wrongful act or negligence, the superior court in either the county where the
injury occurs or the injury causing death occurs or the county where the
defendants, or some of them reside at the commencement of the action, is a
proper court for the trial of the action…” 

 
If
the plaintiff files an action with an improper court, Code Civ. Proc. section
396b is a mandatory venue transfer statute under which a defendant may move to
transfer the case on the grounds that venue was not filed in the proper court.
“Upon the hearing of the motion the court shall, if it appears that the action
or proceeding was not commenced in the proper court, order the action or
proceeding transferred to the proper court.” (Cal. Code Civ. Proc., §
396b(a).)  Defendant’s motion must be
made within 30 days after service, unless extended by stipulation or court
order.  (Code of Civ. Proc. § 396b.)
 
Code
Civ. Proc. section 397, the discretionary venue statute, provides in a similar
manner that “the court may, on motion, change the place of trial . . . (a)
[w]hen the court designated in the complaint is not the proper court.” 
 
“It
is the moving defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the plaintiff’s venue
selection is not proper under any of the statutory grounds.” (Fontaine v.
Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 830, 836.)
 
Here,
Defendants request to transfer venue from Los Angeles County to Ventura County,
on the ground that at the time the complaint was filed: (1) no Defendants
resided in Los Angeles County; (2) no Defendants did business in Los Angeles
County; and (3) none of the allegedly wrongful acts took place in Los Angeles
County.  Defendants thus bring this
Motion seeking to transfer venue to Ventura County, where Young lived at the
time the Complaint was filed (Declaration of Kevin Young); where GB7’s principal
place of business was located (Declaration of Maria Hutt); and where some of the
alleged acts forming the basis for this lawsuit took place (Complaint and FAC).
 
This
Motion was brought under the discretionary provision of Cal. Code Civ. Proc. §
397(a).  To address the similarities
between Code Civ. Proc. §§ 396b(a) and 397(a), the standards are substantially
the same: whether “the court designated in the complaint is not the proper
court.”  The difference is that, if the
Court determines that Los Angeles is not the proper court, the Court still
retains some discretion over whether to order transfer. 
 
Regarding
timeliness, a motion for change of venue based on the filing in an improper
court should be made at the earliest convenience.  (Smith v. Pelton Water Wheel Co. (1907)
151 Cal. 399, 401.)  If such a motion is
made afterward, the applicant must explain any seeming lack of diligence on his
part. (Ibid.)  This is sometimes
referred to by courts as acting with due diligence.  Whether a defendant acted with reasonable
diligence is a question of fact to be determined by the trial court.  (Votaw v. Miller (1941) 42 Cal.App.2d
676, 677.)  “Irrespective of the
mandatory language in the statute, the right to transfer may be waived if there
is unreasonable delay.  (Newman v.
County of Sonoma (1961) 56 Cal. 2d 625, 627-628.)  
 
Here,
Defendants brought a motion to change venue approximately 20 months after the
Complaint was filed in March 2023.  Additionally,
Defendants not only filed an answer on May 8, 2023, but also on that date, Defendants
filed their Cross-Complaint – in this Court – specifically pleading that Young
“is now, and at all times herein mentioned was, an individual residing in the
County of Los Angeles,” and that GB7 “is now, and at all times herein mentioned
was, an entity conducting business in the County of Los Angeles.”  (Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 1-2.)  The Cross-Complaint then alleges that “Venue
is proper in the County of Los Angeles because it was and is the proper venue
for the original Complaint filed by Plaintiff Jane Doe…”  (Cross-Compl., ¶ 9.)
 
The
docket further shows that in the months that followed, Defendants also filed, inter
alia:
•
a June 14, 2023 opposition to Plaintiff’s motion for a protective order, along
with a
request
for sanctions against Plaintiff and her counsel;
•
a June 21, 2023 opposition to Plaintiff’s motion to proceed by pseudonym;
•
a September 1, 2023 opposition to Co-Cross-Defendant Arch Hoffman’s motion to
compel
arbitration;
•
a February 7, 2024 motion to compel Hoffman to answer their deposition
questions, and
to
compel inspection of Plaintiff's electronic devices;
•
a September 30, 2024 motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition and for sanctions;
and
•
an October 22, 2024 motion to quash Plaintiff’s third-party subpoena.
 
As
noted by Plaintiff, through all these motions, Defendants never raised any
opposition to venue nor raised any venue-related arguments.
 
Although
section 397 does not specify the time within which a motion thereunder is to be
made, such a motion must be made within a reasonable time. The general rule is
that a party seeking a change of venue must act within a reasonable time.  (Newman v. Sonoma Cnty., supra, citing
Cooney v. Cooney, 25 Cal.2d 202, 208; Pascoe v. Baker, 158 Cal. 232,
233-234.)  Because Defendants waited approximately
20 months and considering Defendants’ significant litigation of the action
prior to bringing this Motion, the Court finds that the Motion was brought with
unreasonable delay and, as such, Defendants have waived the right to transfer
venue.  
            
RULING
            Accordingly, the Motion is DENIED.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 2nd day of December
2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



