 Case Number:  24STCV02084    Hearing Date:   December 2, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



MARCO RAMOS, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA; and DOES
1 through 10, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV02084
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY
  ACTION
 
Date: December 2, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant
HYUNDAI MOTOR AMERICA (“HMA” or “Defendant”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
MARCO RAMOS (“Plaintiff”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
              This
case arises from Plaintiff’s purchase of a 2023 Hyundai Ioniq 6 (“Vehicle”) warranted
by Defendant.  Based on alleged defects
in the Vehicle, Plaintiff sued Defendant and filed a complaint on January 26,
2024, under the Song-Beverly Act for breach of express and implied warranties regarding
the Vehicle. 
 
            On July 15, 2024, Defendant filed a
motion to compel arbitration, which was subsequently withdrawn without
prejudice on July 24, 2024.  Thereafter, on
September 19, 2024, Defendant filed the present Amended Motion to Compel
Arbitration and Stay Action (the “Motion”). 
Plaintiff filed an opposition to the Motion on November 15, 2024, and
Defendant filed a reply on November 21, 2024.
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
Plaintiff’s
request for judicial notice is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code Sections 452(d)
and 453.
 
DISCUSSION
Legal Standard 
“California law reflects a strong public policy in
favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive method for resolving
disputes.  To further that policy,
section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration
agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.  Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a
party waives the right to arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the
arbitration agreement; and (3) pending litigation with a third party creates
the possibility of conflicting rulings on common factual or legal issues.”  (Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate
Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)  Similarly, “under the FAA, the strong federal
policy favoring arbitration agreements requires courts to resolve any doubts
concerning arbitrability in favor of arbitration.”  (Valencia v. Smyth (2010) 185
Cal.App.4th 153, 176 (internal quotations omitted).)  
 
In deciding a petition to compel arbitration, trial
courts must decide first whether an enforceable arbitration agreement exists
between the parties, and then determine the second gateway issue whether the
claims are covered within the scope of the agreement.  (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118
Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)  The opposing
party has the burden to establish any defense to enforcement.  (Gatton v. T-Mobile USA, Inc. (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 571, 579 [“The petitioner, T–Mobile here, bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement and the opposing party,
plaintiffs here, bears the burden of proving any fact necessary to its
defense.”].)  
 
Procedurally, a petition to compel arbitration or
stay proceedings must state verbatim the provisions providing for arbitration,
or must have a copy of them attached. 
(Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.1330.)  
 
Existence of Arbitration Agreement 
“With respect to the moving party’s burden to
provide evidence of the existence of an agreement to arbitrate, it is generally
sufficient for that party to present a copy of the contract to the court.”  (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.)
 
Here, Defendant seeks to compel arbitration based on
the Arbitration Agreement found in the Owner’s Handbook & Warranty
Information (“Handbook”) for the Vehicle. (Declaration of Jordan A. Willette
[“Willette Decl.”], ¶ 2 and Ex. B.)  Additionally,
Defendant submits evidence that on June 28, 2023, Plaintiff enrolled his
Vehicle in Defendant’s Bluelink services, during which enrollment customers
must agree to the then-effective Bluelink Connected Services Agreement (“CSA”),
the terms and conditions of which also include a binding arbitration provision
(Declaration of Vijay Rao [“Rao Decl.”] Decl., ¶ 7 and Ex. 1).  
 
The arbitration provision contained in the Warranty
provides:
If you purchased or leased
your Hyundai vehicle in the State of California, you and we, Hyundai Motor
America, each agree that any claim or disputes between us (including between
you and any of our affiliated companies) related to or arising out of your
vehicle purchase, advertising for the vehicle, use of your vehicle, the performance
of the vehicle, and service relating to the vehicle, the vehicle warranty, representations
in the warranty, or duties contemplated under the warranty, including without
limitation claims relate to false or misleading advertising, unfair competition,
breach of contract or warranty, the failure to conform a vehicle to warranty,
failure to repurchase or replace your vehicle, or claims for a refund or partial
refund of your vehicle’s purchase price (excluding personal injury claims), but
excluding claims brought under the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act, shall be resolved
by binding arbitration at either your or our election… 
xxx
This agreement to arbitrate
is intended to be broadly interpreted and to make all disputes and claims
between us (including our affiliated companies) relating to or arising out of
your vehicle purchase, use or performance of your vehicle, or the vehicle
warranty subject to arbitration to the maximum extent permitted by law.  The arbitrator (and not a court) shall decide
all issues of interpretation, scope, and
application of this
agreement.
xxx
IF
YOU PURCHASED OR LEASED YOUR VEHICLE IN CALIFORNIA, YOUR WARRANTY IS MADE
SUBJECT TO THE TERMS OF THIS BINDING ARBITRATION PROVISION. BY USING THE
VEHICLE, OR REQUESTING OR ACCEPTANCE BENEFITS UNDER THIS WARRANTY, INCLUDING HAVING
ANY REPAIRS PERFORMED UNDER WARRANTY,  YOU
AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THESE TERMS.  IF YOU
DO NOT AGREE WITH THESE TERMS, PLEASE CONTACT US AT OPT-OUT@HMAUSA.COM WITHIN
THIRTY (30) DAYS OF YOUR PURCHASE OR LEASE TO OPT-OUT OF THIS ARBITRATION PROVISION.
 
(Willette Decl., Exh. B pp. 12-14.)
 
A defendant’s motion to compel arbitration of a
plaintiff’s claims must be granted if both sides mutually agreed to the
arbitration of the claims (Pinnacle Museum Tower Ass’n v. Pinnacle Market
Development  (US) LLC (2012) 55 Cal 4th
223, 226), the claims are covered by the agreement, (Omar v. Ralph’s Grocery
Co. (2004) 118 Cal. App. 4th 955, 961), and enforcement of the
agreement would not be unconscionable.  (OTO,
LLC v. Kho (2019) 8 Cal. 5th 111, 125.)  
 
In the Court’s view, Plaintiff assented to the
arbitration provision in the Handbook, the provision covers his claims against
Defendant, and enforcement of the provision would not be unconscionable.[1]

 
Plaintiff manifested his assent to the arbitration
provision in the Handbook through her reliance on it in suing Defendant.  Specifically, his claim against Defendant for
breach of express warranty in violation of the Song-Beverly Act is based on the
warranty set forth in the Handbook. 
Plaintiff has thereby accepted the benefits of the contractual warranty
in the Handbook.  Having accepted the
benefits by suing to enforce the warranty, Plaintiff is barred from arguing
that he did not agree to the arbitration provision contained alongside the
warranty in the Handbook.  (Boucher v.
Alliance Title Co. (2005) 127 Cal. App. 4th 262, 269.)  To be sure, Plaintiff did not sign or initial
any portion of the Handbook, including the arbitration provision therein.  A party need not sign an agreement, however,
to be bound by it.  “[A] party may accept
a contract by conduct, as well as by words.” 
(Calvary SPV 1 LLC v. Watkins (2019) 36 Cal. App. 5th
1070, 1081.)  That is what Plaintiff has
done here by suing to enforce the warranty in the Handbook that contained the
arbitration provision.  Indeed, Plaintiff
cannot claim benefits of the warranty while simultaneously attempting to avoid
its purported burdens (i.e., arbitration).
 
Plaintiff’s claims are plainly covered by the
arbitration provision.  As indicated
above, the provision applies to “any claims or disputes” between Plaintiff and
Defendant    “related to or arising out
of” Plaintiff’s use of the Vehicle, the warranty, and representations in the
warranty.  The provision broadly
encompasses both the claim for breach of the express warranty and the claim for
breach of the implied warranty. 
 
As the party opposing arbitration, Plaintiff bears
the burden of demonstrating that the arbitration provision is unenforceable. 
 
Waiver
Plaintiff argues that Defendant has waived
arbitration.  The Court disagrees. 
 
“‘In determining waiver, a court can consider ‘(1)
whether the party’s actions are inconsistent with the right to arbitrate; (2) whether
“the litigation machinery has been substantially invoked” and the parties “were
well into preparation of a lawsuit” before the party notified the opposing
party of an intent to arbitrate; (3) whether a party either requested
arbitration enforcement close to the trial date or delayed for a long period
before seeking a stay; (4) whether a defendant seeking arbitration filed a counterclaim
without asking for a stay of the proceedings; (5) “whether important
intervening steps [e.g., taking advantage of judicial discovery procedures not
available in arbitration] had taken place”; and (6) whether the delay
“affected, misled, or prejudiced” the opposing party.’”  (St. Agnes Med. Ctr. v. PacifiCare of
California, 31 Cal. 4th 1187, 1196 citing Sobremonte v. Superior Court (1998)
61 Cal.App.4th 980, 992.)
 
 The party
opposing arbitration bears the burden of showing waiver.  This burden is described as a “heavy burden of
proof”, and any doubts regarding a waiver allegation should be resolved in
favor of arbitration.  (Quach v.
California Com. Club, Inc. (2024) 16 Cal. 5th 562, 574 [“in ruling on
waiver questions, California courts have, for decades, been applying a
framework grounded in a ‘strong policy favoring arbitration’ over litigation,
under which they hold parties seeking to establish waiver to a ‘heavy burden of
proof,’ requiring a showing of prejudice beyond the loss of time and expenses
normally associated with litigating a dispute and resolving any doubts ‘in
favor of arbitration.’”].)  
 
Here, the Court notes that Defendant has signified
its intent to arbitrate early on through its Case Management Statement filed by
Defendant back on May 20, 2024, indicating that “Defendant contends this matter
is subject to binding arbitration and reserves the right to file a motion to
compel arbitration and stay action.”  Further,
the Court finds, based on Defendant’s counsel’s declaration, that Defendant has
not engaged in any significant litigation of this matter.  The only affirmative action Defendant has
taken in this case was to file an Answer and this Motion and serve limited
written discovery asking Plaintiff to produce the subject vehicle documents.  (Willette Decl., ¶ 5-6.) Defendant has not
engaged in any other form of discovery, such as taking depositions or
conducting vehicle inspections.  (Id.,
¶ 6.)
 
The Court thus finds that Defendant has not waived
its right to enforce arbitration.
 
Unconscionability 
Plaintiff
also raises the argument that the agreement to arbitrate is procedurally and
substantively unconscionable.
 
Regardless of the claim asserted, arbitration
agreements are only enforceable if they are not unconscionable.  (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 113; Baxter v. Genworth N.
Am. Corp., (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 713, 721.)  “Both procedural and substantive
unconscionability must be present for a court to refuse to enforce a contract,
although they need not be present in the same degree.”  (Baxter, supra, 16 Cal.App.5th at 721
(citing Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1243.)  Procedural unconscionability focuses on (1)
“oppression” resulting from unequal bargaining power that adheres the weaker
party to nonnegotiable terms and (2) “surprise” involving “the extent to which
the supposedly agreed-upon terms are hidden in a prolix printed form drafted by
the party seeking to enforce them.”  (Flores
v. Transamerica HomeFirst, Inc., (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 846, 853.)  Substantive unconscionability “focuses on
overly harsh or one-sided results [that lack substantial justification].” (Baxter,
supra, 16 Cal.App.5th at 724; Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at
117-18.) 
 
Procedural
Unconscionability
Plaintiff argues that the Arbitration Agreement is
procedurally unconscionable because it was presented on a “take-it-or-leave-it”
basis without the option of negotiation. 
Plaintiff asserts that he was not given a reasonable opportunity or time
to review the terms of the arbitration provision.  The Court is not persuaded by Plaintiff’s
assertion. 
 
Existing case law holds that a mandatory arbitration
agreement only establishes a small degree of procedural unconscionability.   (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th at 113
(“The term [contract of adhesion] signifies a standardized contract, which,
imposed and drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength, relegates to
the subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject it.”);
Serpa v. California Surety Investigations, Inc. (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th
695, 704 (“It is well settled that adhesion contracts in the employment
context, that is, those contracts offered to employees on a take-it-or-leave-it
basis, typically contain some aspects of procedural unconscionability.)  
 
Here, the Arbitration Clause is presented to
Plaintiff not in the context of employment, but as a customer whose decision to
lease the vehicle was entirely willful. Plaintiff was not forced to purchase
the subject vehicle.  The risk of
coercion in this context is minimal, and Plaintiff has not presented evidence
to suggest otherwise.  Moreover, as noted
above, the provision also has a procedure for purchasers to opt-out of the
arbitration provision, which Plaintiff did not exercise.  Plaintiff’s opposition does not establish any
other basis for finding the arbitration agreement procedurally
unconscionable.  
 
Substantive Unconscionability 
Plaintiff contends that the arbitration is
substantively unconscionable due to its overbroad scope, unlimited duration and
lack of mutuality.
 
Foremost, the Court finds that the provision between
Plaintiff and Defendant is mutual as it binds both parties to arbitrate
any claim or dispute between the parties relating to the Vehicle purchase, and
that both parties waive the rights to trial in court before a judge or
jury on all claims covered by the provision.  Thus here, the agreement is mutual, and
Plaintiff’s argument does not establish substantive unconscionability.
 
The Court also notes that the scope of the provision
is explicitly limited to “claims arising out of your vehicle purchase,
advertising for the vehicle, use of your vehicle, the performance of the
vehicle, and service relating to the vehicle, the vehicle warranty, representations
in the warranty, or duties contemplated under the warranty;” as such, this
provision does not contribute to substantive unconscionability. 
 
 
Additionally, the provision expressly covers claims
arising from the purchase of the Vehicle.  Thus, notwithstanding the provision that it
covers claims even after the expiration of the warranty, the agreement will
last only until the statute of limitations on Plaintiff’s potential claims related
to the Vehicle’s purchase has lapsed, and is not infinite in duration as
Plaintiff suggests.
 
Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiff failed to meet
his burden of establishing that the arbitration provision is unconscionable.
            
RULING
The
Motion is GRANTED.  Plaintiff’s claims
are stayed pending completion of arbitration. 
The Court sets a Non-Appearance Case Review re Status of Arbitration for
June 2, 2025 at 9:30 am, and the parties are ordered to submit a joint
statement regarding the status of arbitration at least seven court days before
that Case Review date.  The Final Status
Conference scheduled for May 6, 2025, and the Jury Trial set for May 19, 2025, are
advanced to this date and vacated.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 2nd day of December 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 






