  Case Number:  24PSCV01221    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  G Defendants Yuning Su and
Plus & Beyond Express, LLC’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint
Respondent: Plaintiffs
Dynatrans, Inc, and Shaoyue Li
TENTATIVE RULING
Defendants Yuning Su and
Plus & Beyond Express, LLC’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint is SUSTAINED
IN PART with twenty (20) days leave to amend as to the seventh, ninth, tenth,
and eleventh causes of action.
The Demurrer is also
OVERRULED IN PART as to the first, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and eighth
causes of action.
BACKGROUND
This
is an action for fraud and conversion. In 2017, Plaintiff Dynatrans, Inc,
(Dynatrans) hired Defendant Yuning Su. From 2022 to 2023, Dynatrans alleges Su
mishandled and embezzled Dynatrans’s funds. After Su quit in November 2023, Su
allegedly attempted to steal Dynatrans’s business for Defendant Plus &
Beyond Express, LLC (P&B).
On
April 16, 2024, Dynatrans and Shaoyue Li filed a complaint against Su, P&B,
and Does 1-100, alleging the following causes of action: (1) actual
interference with contractual relations, (2) intentional interference with
prospective economic advantage, (3) negligent interference with prospective
economic relations, (4) conversion, (5) Penal Code section 496, (6) breach of
loyalty pursuant to Labor Code sections 2860 and 2863, (7) intentional
misrepresentation, (8) concealment, (9) false promise, (10) negligent
misrepresentation, and (11) cancellation of instrument.
On
July 12, 2024, the Su and P&B filed the present demurrer. On August 22,
2024, the court continued the hearing on the present demurrer in order for
parties to further meet and confer.
A
hearing on the present demurrer is set for September 12, 2024, along with a
case management conference.
ANALYSIS
Su
and P&B demur to Dynatrans and Li’s first cause of action (actual
interference with contractual relations), third cause of action (negligent
interference with prospective economic relations), fourth cause of action (conversion),
fifth cause of action (Penal Code section 496), sixth cause of action (breach
of loyalty pursuant to Labor Code sections 2860 and 2863), seventh cause of
action (intentional misrepresentation), eighth cause of action (concealment),
ninth cause of action (false promise), tenth cause of action (negligent
misrepresentation), and eleventh cause of action (cancellation of instrument).
For
the following reasons, the court SUSTAINS Su and P&B’s demurrer to the seventh, ninth,
tenth, and eleventh causes of action with leave to amend and OVERRULES their demurrer to the first, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and eighth
causes of action.
Legal Standard
A
party may demur to a complaint on the grounds that it “does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd.
(e).) A demurrer tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747 (Hahn).) When considering
demurrers, courts accept all well pleaded facts as true. (Fox v. JAMDAT
Mobile, Inc. (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 1068, 1078.) In a demurrer proceeding,
the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face
of the pleading or are judicially noticed.” (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) “The only issue involved in a demurrer hearing
is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with extraneous matters,
states a cause of action.” (Hahn, supra, at p. 747.)
Defects with the Demurrer
As
an initial matter, Dynatrans and Li oppose Su and P&B’s demurrer on the
grounds that it is procedurally defective for two reasons. First, they argue Su
and P&B failed to adequately meet and confer. (Opp., p. 9:19-10:10.) In
previously continuing the hearing on the demurrer and ordering Su and P&B
to further meet and confer, the court acknowledged this deficiency. (08/22/2024
Ruling.) The court notes Su and P&B have not complied this order by failing
to file proof of additional meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court
days before September 12, 2024. Nonetheless, failure to properly meet and
confer “shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).)
Dynatrans
and Li also argue the demurrer’s memorandum of points and authorities omits a
table of contents and table of authorities as required by Rule 3.1113,
subdivision (f) of the California Rules of Court. (Opp., p. 10:11-18.) In
arguing the demurrer should be considered untimely, they point to Rule 3.1113,
subdivision (g) of the California Rules of Court which states “[a] memorandum
that exceeds the page limits of these rules must be filed and considered in the
same manner as a late-filed paper.” But this rule is inapplicable here as the
demurrer’s memorandum of points and authorities is twelve (12) pages long which
falls within the fifteen-page limit imposed by Rule 3.1113, subdivision (d) of
the California Rules of Court. Dynatrans and Li do not point the court to any
authority that allows the court to overrule the demurrer for failing to include
a table of contents and table of authorities in its memorandum of points and
authorities.
Conspiracy Allegations
P&B
argues the Complaint fails to state a claim against P&B on the basis of
conspiracy. (Demurrer, p. 9:1-14.) But “conspiracy is not a cause of action,
but a legal doctrine that imposes liability on persons who, although not
actually committing a tort themselves, share with the immediate tortfeasors a
common plan or design in its perpetration.” (Applied Equipment Corp. v.
Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 510-511.) Thus, to the
extent P&B uses this demurrer to challenge specific allegations instead of
a cause of action, the court finds these efforts improper and OVERRULES the demurrer on this ground.
Actual Interference with Contractual Relations (First
Cause of Action)
Su
and P&B contend Dynatrans’ first cause of action for actual interference
with contractual relations fails because the Complaint does not identify any
specific contracts. The court disagrees.
Legal Standard
The
elements of a cause of action for intentional interference with contractual
relations are “(1) a valid contract between plaintiff and a third party; (2)
defendant’s knowledge of this contract; (3) defendant's intentional acts
designed to induce a breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; (4)
actual breach or disruption of the contractual relationship; and (5) resulting
damage.” (I-CA Enterprises, Inc. v. Palram Americas, Inc. (2015) 235
Cal.App.4th 257, 289.)
Discussion
In
this case, the Complaint alleges Dynatrans “had contracts with third parties to
perform services for them.” (Complaint, ¶ 55.) Su and P&B contend this
allegation is insufficient because the Complaint must identify the specific
contracts that were affected. (Demurrer, p. 10:3-7.) Su and P&B fail,
however, to point to any authority that requires such specificity.
Accordingly,
Su and P&B’s demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED.
Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic
Relations (Third Cause of Action)
P&B
maintains Dynatrans’ third cause of action for negligent interference with
prospective economic relations fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim.
The court disagrees.
Legal Standard
“The
elements of negligent interference with contract or prospective economic
advantage are (1) the existence of a valid contractual relationship or other
economic relationship between the plaintiff and a third party containing the
probability of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant's
knowledge (actual or construed) of the relationship; (3) the defendant's
knowledge (actual or construed) that the relationship would be disrupted if the
defendant failed to act with reasonable care; (4) the defendant's failure to
act with reasonable care; (5) actual disruption of the relationship; and (6)
resulting economic harm.” (Nelson v. Tucker Ellis, LLP (2020) 48
Cal.App.5th 827, 844, fn. 5.)
Discussion
In
this case, P&B maintains the Complaint fails to allege P&B engaged in
any action and thus did not owe a duty to Dynatrans. (Demurrer, p. 11:2-7.) But
the Complaint does so by alleging P&B received funds that were due to
Dynatrans in the amount of $165,000.00. (Complaint, ¶ 28(E).) Furthermore, the
Complaint alleges all defendants are alter egos of each other, including Su and
P&B. (Complaint, ¶ 38-42.)
Accordingly,
P&B’s demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED.
Conversion (Fourth Cause of Action)
P&B
argues Dynatrans’ fourth cause of action for conversion fails to plead
sufficient facts to state a claim. The court disagrees.
Legal Standard
“Conversion
is the wrongful exercise of dominion over the property of another. The elements
of a conversion claim are: (1) the plaintiff's ownership or right to possession
of the property; (2) the defendant's conversion by a wrongful act or
disposition of property rights; and (3) damages.” (Burlesci v. Petersen (1998)
68 Cal.App.4th 1062, 1066.) “Conversion is an intentional tort.” (Multani v.
Knight (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th 837, 853.) “Because the act [of conversion]
must be knowingly done, ‘neither negligence, active or passive, nor a breach of
contract, even though it result in injury to, or loss of, specific property,
constitutes a conversion.’” (Taylor v. Forte Hotels International (1991)
235 Cal.App.3d 1119, 1124.) “[C]ases recognizing claims for the conversion of
money ‘typically involve those who have misappropriated, commingled, or
misapplied specific funds held for the benefit of others.’” (Voris v.
Lampert (2019) 7 Cal.5th 1141, 1152, quoting PCO, Inc. v. Christensen,
Miller, Fink, Jacobs, Glaser, Weil & Shapiro, LLP (2007) 150
Cal.App.4th 384, 396.)
Discussion
In
this case, P&B argues the Complaint fails to allege how P&B obtained a
specific sum of money or goods that belonged to Dynatrans. (Demurrer, p.
12:3-8.) The Complaint does so, however, by alleging defendants, including Su
and P&B, wrongfully embezzled and transferred a sum of $165,000.00 that
belonged to Dynatrans. (Complaint, ¶ 28(E), 80(A).)
Accordingly,
P&B’s demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED.
Penal Code § 496 (Fifth Cause of Action)
Su
and P&B contend Dynatrans and Li’s fifth cause of action pursuant to Penal
Code section 496 fails as a matter of law. The court disagrees.
Legal Standard
Penal
Code section 496, subdivision (a) criminalizes the receipt or purchase of
stolen property where the offending party knew the property was stolen. Pursuant
to Penal Code section 496, subdivision (c), “[a]ny person who has been injured
by a violation of subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an action for three times
the amount of actual damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff, costs of
suit, and reasonable attorney’s fees.” This section also “codifies a common law
rule prohibiting separate convictions of the same person for stealing and
receiving the same property.” (People v. Garza (2005) 35 Cal.4th 866,
871.)
Discussion
In
this case, Su and P&B contend they cannot be held liable for stealing and
receiving the same property. (Demurrer, p. 12:20-13:5.) But they do not provide
any authority for this claim as their cited cases address whether a party can
be convicted, not held civilly liable. (Id., at p. 871; People v.
Allen (1999) 21 Cal.4th 846, 857.) Further, even if applicable, they fail
to establish how such a limitation on Su and P&B’s liability defeats Dynatrans
and Li’s ability to state a claim since the Complaint may plead inconsistent
theories of liability. (Crowley v. Katleman (1994) 8 Cal.4th 666, 691.)
To the extent P&B also contends there are no allegations that P&B
received stolen property belonging to Dynatrans and Li, the allegations of the
Complaint contradict that contention. (Complaint, ¶ 28(E), 80(A), 86(B).)
Accordingly,
Su and P&B’s demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED.
Breach of the Duty of Loyalty Pursuant to Labor Code
§§ 2860 and 2863 (Sixth Cause of Action)
P&B
maintains Dynatrans and Li’s sixth cause of action for breach of the duty of
loyalty pursuant to Labor Code sections 2860 and 2863 fails because there are
no allegations against P&B and P&B owed no duty. (Demurrer, p.
13:13-18.) But as noted above, the Complaint alleges all defendants are alter
egos of each other, including Su and P&B. (Complaint, ¶ 38-42.) And to the
extent P&B contests the applicability of these sections to P&B, P&B
has failed to develop this argument with citations to applicable authority.
Accordingly,
P&B’s demurrer to this cause of action is OVERRULED.
Fraud Causes of Action (Seventh, Eighth and Ninth
Causes of Action)
Su
argues Dynatrans and Li’s seventh cause of action for intentional
misrepresentation, eighth cause of action for concealment, and ninth cause of
action for false promise fail because they are not pled with specificity. The
court agrees as to the seventh and ninth causes of action and disagrees as to
the eighth cause of action.
Legal Standard
“The
elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort action for deceit, are (a)
misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b)
knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce
reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Lazar v.
Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 638, quoting 5 Witkin, Summary of
Cal. Law (9th ed. 1988) Torts, § 676, p. 778.) Concealment also requires that “defendant
must have been under a duty to disclose the fact to the plaintiff” (Roddenberry
v. Roddenberry (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 634, 665-666) while false promise
requires the defendant to have had no intention of performing at the time the
promise was made. (Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th
471, 481.)
The
facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically
as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the
pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996)
12 Cal.4th 631, 645 (Lazar).) In alleging a cause of action for fraud,
“[t]he specificity requirement means a plaintiff must allege facts showing how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were made, and, in
the case of a corporate defendant, the plaintiff must allege the names of the
persons who made the representations, their authority to speak on behalf of the
corporation, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when the
representation was made.” (West v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (2013) 214
Cal.App.4th 780, 793.)
Discussion
In
this case, Su argues the Complaint fails to allege with specificity what,
where, when, and how representations were made as well as how the
representations were false and how Dynatrans and Li relied on them. (Demurrer,
p. 15:4-10.) Here, the seventh cause of action for intentional
misrepresentation alleges Su promised (1) to manage the business and financial
affairs of Dynatrans, (2) not to make any unauthorized transactions, and (3) to
remain loyal to Dynatrans. (Complaint, ¶ 101.) 
These alleged promises, however, do not constitute representations since
“an actionable misrepresentation must be made about past or existing facts;
statements regarding future events are merely deemed opinions.” (San
Francisco Design Center Associates v. Portman Companies (1995) 41
Cal.App.4th 29, 44.) Because this cause of action does not point to any
misrepresentations made by Su about past or existing facts, this cause of
action is insufficiently pled. The ninth cause of action for false promise
relies on the same promises alleged in the seventh cause of action for intentional
misrepresentation. (Complaint, ¶ 122.) But the Complaint fails to allege any
facts that establish where, when, and how these promises were made. Thus, the
court finds these causes of action are insufficiently pled.
As
to the eighth cause of action for concealment, the court finds the demurrer
fails to address this cause of action as it discusses representations while
concealment deals with concealment of material facts. Accordingly, Su’s
demurrer to these causes of action is SUSTAINED as to the seventh and ninth
causes of action with leave to amend and OVERRULED as to the eighth cause of
action.
Negligent Misrepresentation (Tenth Cause of Action)
Su
contends Dynatrans and Li’s tenth cause of action for negligent
misrepresentation fails to plead sufficient facts to state a claim. The court
agrees.
Legal Standard
“The
elements of negligent misrepresentation are ‘(1) the misrepresentation of a
past or existing material fact, (2) without reasonable ground for believing it
to be true, (3) with intent to induce another’s reliance on the fact
misrepresented, (4) justifiable reliance on the misrepresentation, and (5)
resulting damage.’” (National Union Fire Ins. Co. of Pittsburg, PA v.
Cambridge Integrated Services Group, Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 35, 50 (National
Union), quoting Apollo Capital Fund LLC v. Roth Capital Partners, LLC (2007)
158 Cal.App.4th 226, 243.) The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be
alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy
of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar,
supra, 12 Cal.4th at p. 645.) “While there is some conflict in the case law
discussing the precise degree of particularity required in the pleading of a
claim for negligent misrepresentation, there is a consensus that the causal
elements, particularly the allegations of reliance, must be specifically
pleaded.” (National Union, supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at p. 50.)
Discussion
In
this case, Su contends the Complaint fails to allege the requisite allegations
required to maintain a cause of action for negligent misrepresentation.
(Demurrer, p. 16:18-19.) The Complaint bases this cause of action on the same
three promises alleged in the seventh cause of action for intentional
misrepresentation and ninth cause of action for false promise. (Complaint, ¶
133.) These allegations are insufficient for the reasons noted previously as
they do not involve representations of past or present facts and are not pled
with the required specificity.
Accordingly,
Su’s demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
Cancellation of Instrument (Eleventh Cause of Action)
Su
maintains Li’s eleventh cause of action for cancellation of instrument fails to
plead sufficient facts to state a claim. The court agrees.
Legal Standard
Pursuant
to Civil Code section 3412, “[a] written instrument, in respect to which there
is a reasonable apprehension that if left outstanding it may cause serious
injury to a person against whom it is void or voidable, may, upon his
application, be so adjudged, and ordered to be delivered up or canceled.” “To
prevail on a claim to cancel an instrument, a plaintiff must prove (1) the
instrument is void or voidable due to, for example, fraud; and (2) there is a
reasonable apprehension of serious injury including pecuniary loss or the
prejudicial alteration of one's position.” (U.S. Bank National Assn. v.
Naifeh (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 767, 778.) “In actions to cancel a certain
instrument it is necessary for the complaint to state a case within the code
sections for which reason it is essential to allege the facts affecting the
validity and invalidity of the instrument which is attacked.” (Kroeker v.
Hurlbert (1940) 38 Cal.App.2d 261, 266.)
Discussion
In
this case, Su maintains the Complaint fails to (1) identify the instrument at
issue, (2) demonstrate that the instrument is void or voidable, (3) allege
serious injury, and (3) allege tender of the amount borrowed. (Demurrer, p.
17:6-11.) The court agrees as the Complaint fails to identify the specific
instrument that is being challenged, but instead vaguely alleges Su “placed her
own name on the Diamond Bar property as part owner.” (Complaint, ¶ 147.) Further,
to the extent the Complaint suggests the unspecified instrument is voidable due
to fraud, the Complaint fails to allege such fraud with the requisite
specificity.
Accordingly,
Su’s demurrer to this cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, Su
and P&B’s demurrer to Dynatrans and Li’s Complaint is SUSTAINED IN PART with
twenty (20) days leave to amend as to the seventh, ninth, tenth, and eleventh
causes of action.
The demurrer is OVERRULED
IN PART as to the first, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, and eighth causes of
action.