 Case Number:  22STCV36204    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  71  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
 



JOSE TAPIA,
  
         vs.
 
GENERAL MOTORS LLC, et al.


 Case No.: 
  22STCV36204
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  December 4, 2023



 
Plaintiff Jose Tapia’s motion to compel the
deposition of Defendant General Motors LLC’s person(s) most qualified and
custodian of records is granted.  Defendant’s person(s) most qualified and custodian of records is
ordered to appear for deposition within 20 days.
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant and
its counsel of record, Erskine Law Group, is granted in the amount of $2,310.00.
 
          Defendant Jose Tapia (“Tapia”) (“Plaintiff”)
moves to compel the deposition of Defendant General Motors LLC’s (“GM”) (“Defendant”)
person(s) most qualified and custodian of records (“PMQ”) to appear for
deposition.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 1;
C.C.P §2025.450(a).)  Plaintiff also moves
for an order awarding monetary sanctions against Defendant and its counsel of
record, Erskine Law Group for Defendant’s willful and intentional failure to
comply with the Discovery Act in the amount of $2,310.00.  (Notice of Motion, pg. 1; C.C.P §2025.450(g)(1).)
 
Meet and Confer
C.C.P. §2025.450(b)(2) requires that a motion to
compel a party deponent to appear or produce documents “shall be accompanied by
a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent
fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored
information, or things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration
stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the
nonappearance.”  (C.C.P.
§2025.450(b)(2).)  The attempt to resolve
informally may be made either by conferring “in person, by telephone, or by
letter with an opposing party or attorney.”  (C.C.P. §2023.010(i), [failure to make such
attempt constitutes “misuse of discovery process”].)
Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration demonstrated a reasonable
and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue presented by the
motion in compliance with C.C.P. §§2023.450 or 2016.040.  Plaintiff’s counsel declares he sent an email
to Defendant’s counsel stating, “If you are not available on the date in the
enclosed notice, please provide our office with a date in which your witness
will be produced for deposition by Tuesday, September 26,” on September 19,
2023, and emails on October 16, 18, and 23, 2023, asking for dates of the
deposition.  (Decl. of Thomas ¶¶4, 8,
Exhs. B, D.)  Plaintiff’s counsel’s meet
and confer efforts via email are sufficient per the requirements to meet and
confer “in person, by telephone, or by letter with an opposing party or
attorney.”  (C.C.P. §2023.010(i).)  The Court strongly encourages Plaintiff’s
counsel to use alternative means of communication, such as a telephone, to
attempt to resolve matters informally outside of court if opposing counsel is
unresponsive to email communications to preserve future judicial resources.
 
Discussion
Having reviewed Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant’s
PMQ to attend and produce documents at deposition, the Court rules as follows.
          On September
19, 2023, Plaintiff served on Defendant a Notice of Deposition of Defendant’s
PMQ for a deposition noticed for October 17, 2023.  (Decl. of Thomas ¶3, Exh. A.)  Although the deposition was noticed for
October 17, 2023, Plaintiff stated in the email to which the Notice was
attached, “If you are not available on the date in the enclosed notice, please
provide our office with a date in which your witness will be produced for
deposition by Tuesday, September 26.”  (Decl. of Thomas ¶4, Exh. B.)  On October 4, 2023, Defendant served objections
to Plaintiffs’ notice of deposition and indicated that a witness would not be
produced on the noticed date, but indicated in its objections that GM will
produce a witness at mutually agreeable time and place to discuss the relevant
and nonprivileged aspects of Deposition Examination Category Nos. 1, 2, 3, and 4.  (Decl. of Thomas ¶5, Exh. C.)  As of the date of this hearing, Defendant has
not produced its PMQ for deposition.  (See
Decl. of Thomas ¶¶8-9.)
          Plaintiff
filed the instant motion on October 30, 2023. 
Defendant filed its opposition on November 15, 2023.  Plaintiff filed his reply on November 27,
2023.
Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause to compel the
deposition of Defendant’s PMQ because the information sought is relevant to
Plaintiff’s claims under the Song-Beverly Act (“Song-Beverly”): matters related
to Defendant’s pre-litigation analysis as to whether the Subject Vehicle should
be repurchased, all repairs and service performed on the Subject Vehicle, Defendant’s
policies and procedures for determining whether a vehicle qualifies for a
repurchase or replacement under Song-Beverly, and Defendant’s training for
evaluating a pre-litigation repurchase request under Song-Beverly.  These matters are relevant to an analysis of
the criteria that Defendant uses to determine whether a vehicle is a “lemon” in
compliance with the Song-Beverly and subject to a buyback or replacement.  (See Oregel v. American Isuzu Motors
Inc. (1995) 90 Cal.App.4th 1094 [finding liability for a civil penalty
where manufacturer’s corporate policy discounted a repair attempt under
Song-Beverly Act if the problem could not be verified]; Jensen v. BMW of
North America, Inc. (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112, 136 [concluding that in
determining whether a defendant’s violation was willful, a jury may consider
“whether the manufacturer had a written policy on the requirement to repair or
replace.”].)
The requested information is also relevant to
determine whether Defendant, in dealing with Plaintiff, acted in good faith and
in a manner that comports with the lemon law or, instead, sought to avoid
repurchasing or replacing Plaintiff’s vehicle. This determination is important because,
although Plaintiff is entitled to a civil penalty if Defendant’s violation of
Song-Beverly was willful, Defendant’s violation is not willful if its failure
to replace or refund was the result of a good faith and reasonable belief that
the facts imposing the statutory obligation were not present. Defendant’s
policies and procedures are, therefore, relevant to show whether Defendant’s
conduct lacked good faith.  (Kwan v.
Mercedes-Benz of North America (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 174, 186 [concluding
that a manufacturer’s lack of a written policy regarding the repurchase and
replacement of vehicles under Song-Beverly is important to determining whether
Defendant lacked good faith.].)
          Further,
the requested documents and categories of examination are reasonably calculated
to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.  Plaintiff’s list of matters for examination
and documents for production concern Defendant’s pre-litigation analysis as to whether
the Subject Vehicle should be repurchased, all repairs and service performed on
the Subject Vehicle, Defendant’s policies and procedures for determining
whether a vehicle qualifies for a repurchase or replacement under Song-Beverly,
and Defendant’s training for evaluating a prelitigation repurchase request under
Song-Beverly.  (Decl. of Thomas, Exh. A.)
Plaintiff’s list of examination topics and documents
to be produced are sufficiently particularized and leaves no ambiguity as to the
matter that will be raised at Defendant’s PMQ deposition.
          The
Court grants Plaintiffs’ motion pursuant to C.C.P. §2025.450 and orders Defendant’s PMQ to appear for
deposition and produce responsive documents in 20 days.  Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause to
order Defendant to produce a PMQ to testify on all categories of Plaintiff’s
notice.
 
Sanctions
The court shall
impose a monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel an answer or production, unless it finds
that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or
that other circumstances make the imposition of sanctions unjust. (C.C.P.
§2025.450(g)(1).)
Plaintiff’s counsel declares he spent two hours drafting the instant
motion at a rate of $450.00 per hour and anticipates spending an additional two
hours reviewing Defendant’s opposition and drafting a reply, and an additional
one hour preparing for and attending the hearing on this matter.  (Decl. of Thomas ¶9.)  Plaintiff’s counsel also declares his office
incurred the cost of $60.00 for filing the instant motion.  (Decl. of Thomas ¶10.)  The Court calculates Plaintiff’s counsel’s
fees incurred on the instant motion as follows:
($450.00/hour x 5 hours) + $60.00 = $2,310.00
Sanctions are payable by Defendant and its counsel of record within 20
days.
 
Conclusion
Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of Defendant’s PMQ is
granted.  Defendant’s PMQ is ordered to
appear for deposition within 20 days.
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions against Defendant and its
counsel of record, Erskine Law Group, is granted in the amount of $2,310.00.
Moving Party to give notice of this ruling. 
 
Dated:  December
_____, 2023
                                                                             





  