..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the YAML summary of the tentative ruling:

```
Case Number: 24STCP01325
Plaintiff's Name: Petitioner
Defendant's Name: None
People-Names: Petitioner
Company-Names: None
Places: Clerk's Office, Room 112
Dates: September 23, 2024
Events: Hearing, Proposed Decree
Money: None
Intentions: Grant petition, Correct spelling and legibility of new name
Facts: Petitioner must review proposed decree
Disputes: None
Acts: Petitioner must appear at hearing to submit corrected proposed decree if necessary
Agreements: Petitioner must double check spelling and legibility of new name on proposed decree
Laws: None
Case Citations: None
Statutes: None
Roles:
  - Petitioner: Filing party
  - Judge: Ruling party
Significant Statements:
  - Petitioner must double check spelling and legibility of new name on proposed decree
  - If Petitioner is satisfied with the spelling and legibility of the new name on the proposed decree, NO APPEARANCE IS NECESSARY
  - If the new name is not clearly written and correctly spelled on the proposed decree, Petitioner must appear at the hearing to submit a corrected proposed decree
  - The petition is granted
  - A copy of the signed decree will be available in Room 112 of the Clerk's Office seven days after the date of the hearing
  - Once the proposed decree is signed, it cannot be amended without a new petition to change name
```

And here is a summary of the tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling in the case. The petitioner has submitted a proposed decree for changing their name. The judge is requiring the petitioner to review the proposed decree to ensure that the new name is clearly written and correctly spelled. If the petitioner is satisfied with the spelling and legibility of the new name, they do not need to appear at the hearing. However, if the new name is not clearly written and correctly spelled, the petitioner must appear at the hearing to submit a corrected proposed decree. The judge has granted the petition, and a signed copy of the decree will be available in Room 112 of the Clerk's Office seven days after the hearing. Once the decree is signed, it cannot be amended without a new petition to change name.
