 Case Number:  23SMCV05353    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  O 


Hearing Date:


7-9-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


Add-on


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None


SUBJECT:                 SPECIAL MOTION TO STRIKE
CROSS-COMPLAINT UNDER CCP 425.16 (ANTI-SLAPP)MOVING
PARTY:   Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Lucas AtkinsRESP.
PARTY:         Defendants/Cross-Complainants
23400 Malibu Road, LLC and Chuck A. Kloeris  TENTATIVE
RULING            Cross-Defendant Lucas Atkins’s Special Motion To Strike
Cross-Complaint Under CCP 425.16 (anti-SLAPP) is DENIED. Cross-Defendant failed
to meet their burden to establish the claims within the Cross-Complaint arise
from protected activity pursuant to CCP § 425.16. Cross-Defendants
Objections to the Graham Decl., are OVERRULED, except the conclusion “which
went straight to D. Luxe and Drabkina,” in ¶ 11 is SUSTAINED.  Cross-Defendants
Objections to the Corona Decl., are OVERRULED. Cross-Defendants
Objections to the Kloeris Decl., are OVERRULED. Cross-Defendants
Objections to the Castruita Decl., are OVERRULED. REASONING“Litigation
of an anti-SLAPP motion involves a two-step process. First, the moving
defendant bears the burden of establishing that the challenged allegations or
claims arise from protected activity in which the defendant has engaged. 
Second, for each claim that does arise from protected activity, the plaintiff
must show the claim has “at least minimal merit.  If the plaintiff cannot
make this showing, the court will strike the claim.”  (Bonni v. St.
Joseph Health System (2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1009 [where moving party seeks
to strike an entire cause of action alleging multiple factual bases, court does
not determine whether 1st step is met based on “gravamen” test; but
rather must determine whether each factual bases supplies the element of claim
or merely provides context].)  The Court will grant the motion
"if the plaintiff fails to produce evidence to substantiate his claim or
if the defendant has shown that the plaintiff cannot prevail as a matter of
law." (Siam v. Kizilbash (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 1563, 1570.)  
Anti-SLAPP
     First Step – Defendants Burden of Establishing Claims Arise From Protected
     Activity. 
 In
the first step of the anti-SLAPP analysis, “courts are to consider the elements
of the challenged claim and what actions by the defendant supply those elements
and consequently form the basis for liability.  The defendant’s burden is
to identify what acts each challenged claim rests on and to show how those acts
are protected under a statutorily defined category of protected
activity.”  (Bonni, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 1009.) “First,
the moving defendant must show that the challenged claim or claims arise from
the defendant's constitutionally protected free speech or petition rights. (Ojjeh
v. Brown (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 1027, 1035.) A defendant has the “burden of
identifying all allegations of protected activity” on the 1st prong
of SLAPP.  (Bel Air Internet, LLC v. Morales (2018) 20 Cal.App.5th
924, 936-937.)  Defendant only meets this burden by demonstrating that the
act underlying the plaintiff’s cause of action “fits one of the categories
spelled out in section 425.16, subdivision (e).”  (Sprengel v. Zbylut
(2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 140, 150.) An
“act in furtherance of a person's right of petition or free  . . . includes: (1) any written or oral
statement or writing made before a legislative, executive, or judicial
proceeding, or any other official proceeding authorized by law” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 425.16, (e)(1).) “A claim for relief  filed in . . . court indisputably is a
statement or writing made before a . . . judicial proceeding”. (Navellier v.
Sletten (2002) 29 Cal.4th 82, 90, quoting Code Civ. Proc., § 425.16, subd.
(e)(1).)   Cross-Defendant
Lucas Atkins (“Atkins”) argues that Cross-Complainants 24300 Malibu Road, LLC
and Chuck Kloeris (collectively “Cross-Complainants”) Cross-Complaint’s 4th
and 5th causes of action for fraudulent and negligent
misrepresentation respectively arise from protected activity for numerous
reasons including: (1) the factual misrepresentation allegations attributed to
Atkins are strictly from the Complaint (See Cross-Complaint ¶¶ 73(a), 73(d),
& 82); (2) the lone intent to deceive allegation as to Atkins is the
alleged attempt to use the Complaint to extort “an exorbitant and unsupported
settlement” (See Id., ¶ 76.); and (3) the only alleged damages are that
Atkins “has brought his Complaint.” (See Id., ¶ 78.)             Atkins argues the Cross-Complaints 7th
cause of action for negligent interference with business contract arises from
the protected activity of filing the complaint because of the allegation that “Cross-Defendants
caused a meritless and baseless litigations” due to Atkins and
Cross-Defendant’s negligence. (Id., ¶¶ 95–96.) Further, the
cross-complaint states Atkins “had no claim or right to challenge anything to
do with the Property” thus the cause of action is reliant on the filing of the
Complaint. (Id., ¶ 96.)             Atkins argues the Cross-Complaint’s contract claims, the
1st and 2nd causes of action, arise from the protected
activity because the contract claims fail to state a cause of action against
Atkins and thus arise from only from Complaint (See Motion, p. 12:3–16.) Atkins
argues the additional 6th, 7th and 10th causes
of action arise from protected activity because “the only allegation in the
entire Cross-Complaint that Mr. Atkins’s did anything ‘wrong’ is his filing of
the Complaint.” (Motion, pp. 12: 18–24–13:1–4.)             The Cross-Complainants argue that the allegations in the
Cross-Complaint do not arise from the protected activity of filing the
Complaint, but instead from Atkins’s, and the additional named Cross-Defendants,
actions occurring during the tenancy of the Property at issue between 8-1-24 and
9-3-23, prior to the filing of the Complaint on 11-13-23. (Oppo., pp. 6–11.)             The Court agrees with the Cross-Complainants and finds
that the filing of the Cross-Complaint does not arise from the filing of the
Complaint. “[A] cross-complaint must allege a cause of action arising from the
plaintiff's act of filing the complaint itself. (Third Laguna Hills Mutual
v. Joslin (2020) 49 Cal.App.5th 366, 372 [“a cross-complaint will
ordinarily not be considered a SLAPP suit because a cross-complaint usually
arises from the underlying dispute alleged in the complaint, and not out of the
litigation process itself”].)              Cross-Complainants makes the following allegations in the
Cross-Complaint against Atkins which show that the Cross-Complaint’s causes of
action arise out of the Property rental issue, and not the filing of the Complaint
itself: 1.     “It
was not until right around the beginning of the term of the rental that anyone
on behalf of property even knew the name Lukas Atkins.” (Cross-Complaint, ¶
23.)2.     “Shortly
after move in and for the duration of the rental, Mr. Atkins performed acts
that violated the CAR Lease including but not limited to having a dog living at
the Property (pets were not allowed under the lease) who defecated inside the
house, causing damages and waste to various doors and fixtures that required
repair, and other damages.” (Id., ¶ 24.)3.     “Cross-Claimants
are informed and therefore alleged that Lukas Atkins engaged Entourage
Collection, a company not licensed to do business in the United States, who
then engaged Compass via Drabkina all to rent a property where ultimately
Atkins would reside for the month of August 2023. Drabkina, then hid the proper
lease from Entourage Collection, and thereby Atkins and instead presented a
fraudulent lease the DLUXE Lease, while still employed by Compass only days
after the CAR lease was signed.” (Id., ¶ 37.)4.     “Atkins
engaged a sham company to rent him a short-term rental for the month of August.
That sham company, which did not reach out the Property Owner but instead
reached out to another renter’s real estate agent to rent the Property. The
agent, Drabkina, on behalf of Compass, stated to 24300’s Property Agents that
she represented renter.” (Cross-Complaint, ¶ 73(a).) These
allegations above show that the Cross-Complaint arises out of the same issue as
the Complaint, the short-term rental of the Property at issue, but not
specifically from the filing of the Complaint itself, as needed to meet the
first burden of a SLAPP suit. The Cross-Complaint is essentially a compulsory
cross-complaint, as it is a related cause of action which “arises out of the
same transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the
cause of action which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.” (Raining Data
Corp. v. Barrenechea (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 1363, 1373.) Compulsory
Cross-Complaints “would rarely, if ever, qualify as a SLAPP suit arising from
petition activity . . . [because] [t]he SLAPP suit is not related to
transaction or occurrence which is the subject of the plaintiff’s complaint,
but arises out of the litigation process itself.” (Id., at pp.
1373–1374.) The
portions of the Cross-Complaint which mention the filing of the Complaint
merely provide context and are not required to meet the elements of the
Cross-Complaint’s causes of action. (See Bonni v. St. Joseph Health System
(2021) 11 Cal.5th 995, 1012 [“Allegations of protected activity that merely
provide context, without supporting a claim for recovery, cannot be stricken
under the anti-SLAPP statute.”]; see also Baral v. Schnitt (2016) 1
Cal.5th 376, 394 [“Assertions that are merely incidental or collateral are not
subject to section 425.16.”].) The Cross-Complaint includes factual allegations
regarding the short-term rental itself, issues that arose prior to the complaint
filing, and thus the Cross-Complaint is not subject to a SLAPP motion.  Atkins
therefore does not meet his burden on the first prong of the SLAPP analysis,
and so it follows that the Court need not analyze the second prong of whether Cross-Complainants
can demonstrate a probability of prevailing on their claims.  Atkins
SLAPP Motion as to the Cross-Complaint is DENIED.             Atkins’s request in the
alternative to strike portions of the Cross-Complaint is also DENIED. Atkins
provides no authority or arguments for this alternative argument, and the Court
will not provide them for him. (See United Grand Corp. v. Malibu
Hillbillies, LLC (2019) 36 Cal.App.5th 142, 153 [“We may . . . disregard
conclusory arguments that are not supported by pertinent legal authority or
fail to disclose the reasoning by which the appellant reached the conclusions
he wants us to adopt.”].)]             Cross-Complainants request for attorney’s fees is denied
without prejudice to hearing a noticed motion under CCP § 425.16(c)(1). 
 