  Case Number:  23BBCV01900    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2024    Dept:  A LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURTNORTH
CENTRAL DISTRICT - BURBANKDEPARTMENT
A 

TENTATIVE
RULING

SEPTEMBER 26,
2024

MOTIONS
TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES

Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23BBCV01900

 


MP:  


Gary & Kathleen Pantaleo
  (Plaintiffs)




RP:  


Christopher Valentine & Christian
  Tolen Von Lahr (Defendants)


 ALLEGATIONS:  Gary & Kathleen
Pantaleo (Plaintiffs) bring this unlawful detainer action against Christopher
Valentine & Christian Tolen Von Lahr (Defendants). Plaintiffs seek for
Defendants to vacate the home they rented from Plaintiffs located at 3048 N.
Keystone Street, Burbank, CA 91504, as well as damages in the form of unpaid
rent.  Before the Court are
two motions made by Plaintiffs to compel each Defendant to render further
responses to Plaintiffs’ Special Interrogatories (SPROG). Defendants initially
filed no opposition to these motions, instead electing to
file their 229-page list of objections with the Court. Defendants eventually
filed their oppositions on September 20, 2024, the day of the hearing for the
motions. Also before the Court
are two motions brought by each Defendant to compel the initial responses of Plaintiffs
to Defendants SPROG Set Two. Plaintiffs initially filed no opposition to these
motions. Plaintiffs provided written copies of the oppositions to Defendants at
the September 20 hearing and thereafter filed them with the Court on September
24, 2024. On September 20, 2024
these motions came on for hearing. Having heard arguments from both parties,
the Court ordered the hearing on the motions continued. The Court admonished
both parties for their failure to file timely oppositions. Given the difficulty
of the parties in adhering to the Court’s orders, the Court has elected to set
weekly discovery hearings in this matter. It is the Court’s hope that this
measure will facilitate the expeditious exchange of information between the
parties.  Having now considered
the parties’ late filed oppositions and arguments made at the September 20
hearing, the Court now issues the following tentative ruling.    ANALYSIS:  I.         
PLAINTIFFS’
MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES  Plaintiffs
move to compel further responses to each of their 68 SPROG. Although Plaintiffs
concede that some responses were sufficient, their briefing does not explain
which SPROG remain to be compelled. This issue is exacerbated by the failure of
Plaintiffs to file a Separate Statement in conjunction with their motion as
required by C.R.C. Rule 3.1345(a). Regardless, the Court has now thoroughly
reviewed each of Plaintiffs 68 SPROG and Defendants’ corresponding answers. The
Court finds that Defendants’ answers as to several SPROG are sufficient, but
that many more SPROG require further responses.  Defendants’
Various Objections  Defendants’
231-page response presents a variety of objections to almost every SPROG. In
lieu of addressing the objections as they appear for each of the 68 SPROG, the
Court will address the merits of each type of objection here.  ·       “Questions
2,6,10,14,18,22,26,30,34,38,42,46,50,54,58,62 and 66 are going to be considered
subject to privilege protection.”  Despite
the assertion of privilege in response to these SPROGS, Defendants do not
identify any privilege their answer would be subject to. Nor do they produce a
privilege log as to what facts, witnesses, or documents would be subject to
privilege. Defendants’ objections on the grounds of privilege are therefore
entirely unsubstantiated.  ·       “It would require a lawyer to ascertain
violations of the laws and ordinances, and even that may just be a nuance”
& “Not an Attorney.  This question
requires the extensive working knowledge of an attorney. The Defendant is not
an attorney.” None of
the SPROG to which these objections are asserted require Defendants to be an
attorney to answer sufficiently. Plaintiff’s SPROGS concern claims made by
Defendants in their responsive pleading. Questions concerning Defendants’ basic
contentions regarding the case, and the facts upon which they base those
contentions, do not require an attorney to be answered.   ·       “Duplicative. Defendant response will defer to
their answer in the request for production, which is associated with this
discovery request.”  A review
of the SPROG to which this objection is asserted reveals that none of the
questions are duplicative. Defendants’ belief that some of the same information
is responsive to a number of these SPROGS is not an appropriate basis for them
to refuse to answer.  Responses
Sufficient  The
following is a list of the SPROG responses which the Court finds sufficient and
require no further response.  ·       SPROG No. 1 asks Defendants whether they contend they are protected by any
Covid statutes. Defendants respond in the affirmative and cite to a number of
statutes. Defendants’ response appears responsive, and Plaintiffs have provided
no argument to the contrary.  ·       SPROG No. 3 asks Defendants to identify all witnesses with knowledge of the
fact that Defendants are protected by the Covid statutes in question.
Defendants’ response identifies themselves, Plaintiffs, Plaintiffs’ counsel
(both current and prior) and Plaintiffs’ Property Management Company (Trotta
Realty) as the relevant witnesses. Plaintiffs have presented no reason as to
why this response is insufficient. As previously discussed at the September 20
hearing, the identification of Trotta Realty as a witness is within the
contemplated definition of “person” as established in Plaintiffs’ SPROG.  ·       SPROG No. 6 asks Defendants to identify facts supporting their contention
that Plaintiffs are in violation of various Covid statutes. Defendants respond
that “Plaintiff(s) asked for monies in a 3-Day Notice to Pay or Quit, and the
UD Complaint and Summons during a period protected by COVID resolution time
periods.” The Court sees no reason that this answer is insufficient, and
Plaintiff has presented no good cause to compel further response.  ·       SPROG No. 7 asks Defendants to identify all witnesses with knowledge that
Plaintiffs are in violation of various Covid statutes. Defendants’ response
identifies themselves, Plaintiffs, Plaintiffs’ counsel (both current and prior)
and Plaintiffs’ Property Management Company (Trotta Realty) as the relevant
witnesses. Plaintiffs have presented no reason as to why this response is
insufficient. As previously discussed at the September 20 hearing, the
identification of Trotta Realty as a witness is within the contemplated definition
of “person” as established in Plaintiff’s SPROG.  ·       SPROG No. 9 asks whether Defendants contend that Plaintiffs are in violation
of the Tenant Protection Act of 2019. Defendants’ response, although containing
various conjectural statements, responds sufficiently by stating “Tenants would
argue that the Plaintiff(s) are indeed in violation.” The Court finds this
answer is responsive to the SPROG and Plaintiffs present no argument to the
contrary.  ·       SPROG No. 11 asks Defendants to identify all witnesses with knowledge of the
fact that Plaintiffs are in violation of the Tenant Protection Act of 2019.
Defendants response identifies only Plaintiffs’ current and prior counsel.
Whether or not these witnesses indeed possess the relevant knowledge is a
matter beside the fact of this motion. Plaintiffs’ question appears to have
been answered by Defendants, contrary to Plaintiffs’ argument.  ·       SPROG No. 13 asks whether Defendants contend that Plaintiffs’ demand for
possession is not in compliance with the Covid-19 Tenant Relief Act. Defendants
respond in the affirmative. The Court sees no reason this response is
insufficient, and Plaintiffs provide none.  ·      
SPROG No.
15 asks Defendants to
identify all witnesses with knowledge of the fact that Plaintiffs’ demand for
possession is not in compliance with the Covid-19 Tenant Relief Act.
Defendants’ response identifies only Plaintiffs’ current and prior counsel.
Whether or not these witnesses indeed possess the relevant knowledge is a
matter beside the fact of this motion. Plaintiffs’ question appears to have
been answered by Defendants, contrary to Plaintiffs’ argument.  ·       SPROG No. 17 asks whether Defendants contend that Plaintiffs have breached the
implied warranty of habitability. Defendants respond “Yes. Over and over again.
Technically, since the first day of the lease, till now.” Defendants’ response
in the affirmative appears to the Court to be a sufficient answer.  ·       SPROG No. 21 asks whether Defendants contend that Plaintiffs negligently
ignored the failed underground plumbing substantiating a habitability claims
due to faulty plumbing by Defendants. Defendants respond “Yes. Negligence
continued for years and started from the first month of the Lease. Pleas and
requests went ignored and unanswered unto the City of Burbank contacted
Plaintiff and demanded that they repair their defective plumbing.” The Court
sees no reason this response is insufficient, and Plaintiffs provide none.  ·       SPROG No. 23 asks Defendants to identify all witnesses with knowledge of facts
that Plaintiffs negligently ignored the failed underground plumbing.
Defendants’ response identifies only Plaintiffs’ current and prior counsel.
Whether or not these witnesses indeed possess the relevant knowledge is a
matter beside the fact of this motion. Plaintiffs’ question appears to have
been answered by Defendants, contrary to Plaintiffs’ argument.  ·      
SPROG No.
30 asks Defendants to identify
all facts supporting their contention that the entire eviction filed against
them is not enforceable in any manner whatsoever. Defendants respond “Invalid
3-Day Pay or Quit, Complaint. Habitability issues. Non-defensible Lease
violations by the Plaintiff as indicated herein, and above.” Although it is not
stated in great detail, the Court finds this response is a sufficient
recitation of facts upon which Defendants contend that the action against them
is unwarranted. Plaintiffs brief no reason as to why the facts identified are
insufficient.  ·       SPROG No. 31 asks Defendants to identify all witnesses with knowledge of facts
that the entire eviction filed against them is not enforceable in any manner
whatsoever. Defendants response identifies only Plaintiffs’ current and prior
counsel. Whether or not these witnesses indeed possess the relevant knowledge
is a matter beside the fact of this motion. Plaintiffs’ question appears to
have been answered by Defendants, contrary to Plaintiffs’ argument.  Response
Insufficient  The
following is a list of the SPROG responses which the Court finds insufficient
and require further response.  ·       SPROG No. 2 asks Defendants state all facts supporting their contention that
they are protected by the Covid Statutes. Defendants’ reply is a mere
recitation of the previously cites statutes. Defendants’ answer in its current
state is unresponsive to the request.  ·       SPROG No. 4 asks Defendants to identify all documents supporting their
contention that they are shielded by Covid statutes. Defendants’ response is
that Defendants must petition the Federal, State and Local governments to
obtain their law library. As discussed at the September 20 hearing, this answer
is insufficient. Plaintiffs’ request is clear that it is not asking Defendants
to reproduce the language of the Covid statues, but instead identify documents
showing that Defendants specifically are entitled to the protection of those
statutes. Defendants’ response identifies no such documents.  ·       SPROG No. 5 asks whether Defendants contend that Plaintiffs are in violation
of any Covid statutes, ordinances, or laws. Defendants’ answer consists only of
a citation to the previously cited Covid statutes. Defendants’ answer is
lacking an affirmative or negative response to the question posed.  ·      
SPROG No.
8 asks Defendants to identify
all documents supporting their contention that they are shielded by Covid
statutes. Defendants’ response is a lengthy recitation of the various statutes
previously cited as well as a reidentification of witnesses. Defendants’ response
identifies no documents, nor does it state that no responsive documents exist.
Defendants’ response that Plaintiffs are in control of all the relevant
documents in this case is insufficient.  ·       SPROG No. 10 asks Defendants to identify facts supporting their contention
that Plaintiffs are in violation of the Tenant Protection Act of 2019.
Defendants’ response is only a list of unsupported objections with no reference
to any of the requested facts. As such, Defendants’ response is insufficient
and further response is warranted.  ·      
SPROG No.
12 asks Defendants to identify
all documents supporting their contention that Plaintiffs are in violation of
the Tenant Protection Act of 2019. Defendants’ response identifies no
documents, nor does it state that no responsive documents exist. Defendants’ response
that Plaintiffs are in control of all the relevant documents in this case is
insufficient.  ·       SPROG No. 14 asks Defendants to identify facts supporting their contention
that Plaintiffs’ demand for possession is not in compliance with the Covid-19
Tenant Relief Act. Defendants’ response is only a list of unsupported
objections with no reference to any of the requested facts. As such,
Defendants’ response is insufficient and further response is warranted.  ·      
SPROG No.
15 asks Defendants to identify
all documents supporting their contention that Plaintiff’s demand for
possession is not in compliance with the Covid-19 Tenant Relief Act.
Defendants’ response identifies no documents, nor does it state that no
responsive documents exist. Defendants’ response that Plaintiffs are in control
of all the relevant documents in this case is insufficient.  ·       SPROG No. 18 asks Defendants to identify all facts supporting their contention
that Plaintiffs have breached the implied warranty of habitability. Defendants’
response is only a list of unsupported objections with no reference to any of
the requested facts. As such, Defendants’ response is insufficient and further
response is warranted.  ·      
SPROG No.
19 asks Defendants to
identify all witnesses with knowledge of fact that Plaintiff has breached the
implied warranty of habitability. Defendants respond only with unsupported
objections and identify no witnesses responsive to the question.  ·      
SPROG No.
20 asks Defendants to identify
all documents supporting their contention that Plaintiffs have breached the
implied warranty of habitability. Defendants’ response identifies no documents,
nor does it state that no responsive documents exist. Defendants’ response that
Plaintiffs are in control of all the relevant documents in this case is
insufficient.  ·       SPROG No. 22 asks Defendants to identify all facts supporting their contention
that Plaintiffs negligently ignored the failed underground plumbing.
Defendants’ response is only a list of unsupported objections with no reference
to any of the requested facts. As such, Defendants’ response is insufficient
and further response is warranted.  ·      
SPROG No.
23 asks Defendants to identify
all documents supporting their contention that Plaintiffs negligently ignored
the failed underground plumbing. Defendants’ response identifies no documents,
nor does it state that no responsive documents exist. Defendants’ response that
Plaintiffs are in control of all the relevant documents in this case is
insufficient.  ·      
SPROG No.
25 asks Defendants whether
they contend that they immediately notified Plaintiffs in writing of any
malfunction or problem with the property. Defendants only respond that
Plaintiffs are in sole possession of any documents in this matter. Defendants
do not provide a yes or no answer to the question. While it could be gleaned
that Defendants do so contend, they do not state as much in their answer.  ·       SPROG No. 26 asks Defendants to identify all facts upon which they base their
contention that they immediately notified Plaintiffs in writing of any
malfunction or problem with the property. Defendants’ response is only a list
of unsupported objections with no reference to any of the requested facts. As
such, Defendants’ response is insufficient and further response is warranted.  ·      
SPROG No.
27 asks Defendants to identify
all witnesses with knowledge of facts that they immediately notified Plaintiffs
in writing of any malfunction or problem with the property. Defendants respond
only with unsupported objections and identify no witnesses responsive to the
question. ·      
SPROG No.
28 asks Defendants to identify
all documents supporting their contention that they immediately notified
Plaintiffs in writing of any malfunction or problem with the property.
Defendants’ response identifies no documents, nor does it state that no
responsive documents exist. Defendants’ response that Plaintiffs are in control
of all the relevant documents in this case is insufficient.  ·      
SPROG No.
29 asks Defendants if they
contend that the entire eviction filed against them is not enforceable in any
manner whatsoever. Defendants response is only that this question has been
asked and answered. Defendants do not respond in the affirmative or negative to
the question. As such, further response is required.  ·      
SPROG No.
32 asks Defendants to identify
all documents supporting their contention that the entire eviction filed
against them is not enforceable in any manner whatsoever. Defendants’ response
identifies no documents, nor does it state that no responsive documents exist.
Defendants’ response that Plaintiffs are in control of all the relevant
documents in this case is insufficient.  ·      
SPROG No.
33 asks Defendants whether
they contend that the amount of rent demanded in the notice and/or complaint is
excessive because Plaintiffs failed to provide the Defendants with a tenantable
dwelling in any manner whatsoever. Defendants’ response is only a list of
unsupported objections. Defendants do not respond in the affirmative or
negative to this question. As such, further response is required.  ·      
SPROG No.
34 asks Defendants to identify
all facts upon which they base their contention that the amount of rent
demanded in the notice and/or complaint is excessive because Plaintiffs failed
to provide the Defendants with a tenantable dwelling in any manner whatsoever.
Defendants’ response is only a list of unsupported objections with no reference
to any of the requested facts. As such, Defendants’ response is insufficient
and further response is warranted. ·      
SPROG No.
35 asks Defendants to identify
all witnesses with knowledge of facts that the amount of rent demanded in the
notice and/or complaint is excessive because Plaintiffs failed to provide the
Defendants with a tenantable dwelling in any manner whatsoever. Defendants
respond only with unsupported objections and identify no witnesses responsive
to the question. ·      
SPROG No.
36 asks Defendants to identify
all documents supporting their contention that amount of rent demanded in the
notice and/or complaint is excessive because Plaintiffs failed to provide the
Defendants with a tenantable dwelling in any manner whatsoever. Defendants’
response identifies no documents, nor does it state that no responsive
documents exist. Defendants’ response that Plaintiffs are in control of all the
relevant documents in this case is insufficient. ·      
SPROG No.
37 asks Defendants whether
they contend that Plaintiffs’ intention in seeking possession is retaliation
against the tenant for exercising his/her rights in any manner. Defendants’
response is only that the question is compound and unanswerable. Defendants’ response
does not contain an affirmative or negative response to the question. As such,
further response is required.  ·      
SPROG No.
38 asks Defendants to
identify all facts upon which they base their contention that Plaintiffs’
intention in seeking possession is retaliation against the tenant for
exercising his/her rights in any manner. Defendants’ response is only that the
question is compound and unanswerable. As such, further response is required. ·      
SPROG No.
39 asks Defendants to identify
all witnesses with knowledge of the facts that Plaintiffs’ intention in seeking
possession is retaliation against the tenant for exercising his/her rights in
any manner. Defendants respond only with unsupported objections and identify no
witnesses responsive to the question.  ·      
SPROG No.
40 asks Defendants to identify
all documents supporting their contention that Plaintiffs’ intention in seeking
possession is retaliation against the tenant for exercising his/her rights in
any manner. Defendants’ response identifies no documents, nor does it state
that no responsive documents exist. Defendants’ response that Plaintiffs are in
control of all the relevant documents in this case is insufficient.  ·      
SPROG No.
41 asks Defendants whether
they contend that Plaintiffs do not state and/or have cause for the eviction.
Defendants only answer that this question is compound and unanswerable without
explanation. Defendants’ statement that they do not know the mind of Plaintiffs
is insufficient as the question does not concern Plaintiffs’ state of mind.
Defendants’ response does not contain an affirmative or negative response to
the question. As such, further response is required.  ·      
SPROG No.
42 asks Defendants to identify
all facts supporting their contention that Plaintiffs do not state and/or have
cause for the eviction. Defendants only answer that this question is compound
and unanswerable without explanation. Defendants’ statement that they do not
know the mind of Plaintiffs is insufficient as the question does not concern
Plaintiffs’ state of mind. Defendants’ response identifies no facts. As such,
further response is required.  ·      
SPROG No.
43 asks Defendants to identify
all witnesses with knowledge of the facts that that Plaintiff does not state
and/or have cause for the eviction. Defendants only answer that this question
is compound and unanswerable without explanation. Defendants’ statement that
they do not know the mind of Plaintiffs is insufficient as the question does
not concern Plaintiff’s state of mind. Defendants’ response identifies no
witnesses.  ·      
SPROG No.
44 asks Defendants to identify
all documents supporting their contention that Plaintiff does not state and/or
have cause for the eviction. Defendants only answer that this question is
compound and unanswerable without explanation. Defendants’ statement that they
do not know the mind of Plaintiffs is insufficient as the question does not
concern Plaintiffs’ state of mind. Defendants’ response identifies no
documents.  ·      
SPROG No.
45 asks Defendants whether
they contend they are entitled to relocation payments under the local
ordinance. Defendants respond “Defendant considers that a matter and judgment
of the Court and the Jury. The Defendant is not an attorney and could only
speculate on subjective subjects like this question is speaking to.” This
answer is entirely unresponsive to the question. Plaintiff’s SPROG asks whether
Defendants contend they are entitled to relocation payments, not whether they
are in fact entitled to those payments.  ·      
SPROG No.
46 asks Defendants to identify
all facts upon which they base their contention that they are entitled to
relocation payments under the local ordinance. Defendants only respond that
this question is duplicative and requires the knowledge of an attorney. Defendants’
response identifies no facts upon which they base their contention. As such,
further response is required.  ·      
SPROG No.
47 asks Defendants to identify
all witnesses with knowledge of the fact that Defendants are entitled to
relocation payments under the local ordinance. Defendants only respond that
this question is duplicative and requires the knowledge of an attorney. Defendants’
response identifies no witnesses.  ·      
SPROG No.
48 asks Defendants to identify
all documents supporting their contention that Defendants are entitled to
relocation payments under the local ordinance. Defendants respond that this
question is duplicative and requires the knowledge of an attorney. Defendants’
response identifies no documents, nor does it state that no responsive
documents exist. Defendants’ response that Plaintiffs are in control of all the
relevant documents in this case is insufficient. ·      
SPROG No.
49 asks Defendants whether
they contend that they are entitled to any reparations whatsoever. Defendants
respond “Defendant considers that a matter and judgment of the Court and the
Jury. The Defendant is not an attorney and could only speculate on subjective
subjects like this question is speaking to.” This answer is entirely
unresponsive to the question. Plaintiff’s SPROG asks whether Defendants contend
they are entitled to reparations, not whether they are in fact entitled to
them.  ·      
SPROG No.
50 asks Defendants to state
all facts upon which they base their contention that they are entitled to
reparations in any way. Defendants respond that this question is duplicative
and requires the knowledge of an attorney. Defendants response identifies no facts
upon which their contention is based. As such, further response is required.  ·      
SPROG No.
51 asks Defendants to identify
all witnesses with knowledge of the fact that Defendant is entitled to
reparations. Defendants only respond that this question is duplicative and
requires the knowledge of an attorney. Defendants’ response identifies no
witnesses.  ·      
SPROG No.
52 asks Defendants to identify
all documents supporting the contention that Defendants are entitled to
reparations. Defendants respond only that they are not attorneys, and that
Plaintiffs have all responsive documents in this case. Defendants’ response identifies
no documents, nor does it state that no responsive documents exist. Defendants’
response that Plaintiffs are in control of all the relevant documents in this
case is insufficient. ·      
SPROG No.
53 asks Defendants whether
they contend that Plaintiffs have conducted a deliberate and coordinated
obfuscation and fraud on the Tenant(s), and the courts. Defendants answer only
that this question is duplicative and requires the knowledge of an attorney. This
answer is entirely unresponsive to the question and further response is
required.  ·      
SPROG No.
54 asks Defendants to state
all facts supporting their contention that Plaintiffs have conducted a
deliberate and coordinated obfuscation and fraud on the Tenant(s), and the
courts. Defendants answer only that this question is duplicative and requires
the knowledge of an attorney. Defendants response identifies no facts upon
which their contention is based. As such, further response is required.  ·      
SPROG No.
55 asks Defendants to identify
all witnesses with knowledge of the fact that Plaintiffs have conducted a
deliberate and coordinated obfuscation and fraud on the Tenant(s), and the
courts. Defendants answer only that this question is duplicative and requires
the knowledge of an attorney. Defendants’ response identifies no witnesses. ·      
SPROG No.
56 asks Defendants to identify
all documents supporting their contention that Plaintiffs have conducted a
deliberate and coordinated obfuscation and fraud on the Tenant(s), and the
courts. Defendants’ response identifies no documents, nor does it state that no
responsive documents exist. Defendants’ response that Plaintiffs are in control
of all the relevant documents in this case is insufficient.  ·      
SPROG No.
57 asks Defendants whether
they contend that Plaintiffs harassed Defendants in any manner. Defendants
answer only that this question is duplicative and requires the knowledge of an
attorney. This answer is entirely unresponsive to the question and further response
is required. ·      
SPROG No.
58 asks Defendants to state
all facts supporting their contention that Plaintiffs harassed Defendants in
any manner. Defendants answer only that this question is duplicative and
requires the knowledge of an attorney. Defendants’ response identifies no facts
upon which their contention is based. As such, further response is required. ·      
SPROG No.
59 asks Defendants to identify
all witnesses with knowledge of the fact that Plaintiffs harassed Defendants in
any manner. Defendants answer only that this question is duplicative and
requires the knowledge of an attorney. Defendants’ response identifies no
witnesses. ·      
SPROG No.
60 asks Defendants to identify
all documents supporting their contention that Plaintiffs harassed Defendants
in any manner. Defendants answer only that this question is duplicative and
requires the knowledge of an attorney. Defendants’ response identifies no
documents, nor does it state that no responsive documents exist. Defendants’
response that Plaintiffs are in control of all the relevant documents in this
case is insufficient.  ·      
SPROG No.
61 asks Defendants whether
they contend that Plaintiffs have discriminated against them in any manner
whatsoever. Defendants answer only that this question is duplicative and
requires the knowledge of an attorney. This answer is entirely unresponsive to
the question and further response is required. ·      
SPROG No.
62 asks Defendants to state
all facts supporting their contention that Plaintiffs have discriminated
against them in any manner whatsoever. Defendants answer only that this
question is duplicative and requires the knowledge of an attorney. Defendants’
response identifies no facts upon which their contention is based. As such,
further response is required. ·      
SPROG No.
63 asks Defendants to identify
all witnesses with knowledge of the fact Plaintiffs have discriminated against
them in any manner whatsoever. Defendants answer only that this question is
duplicative and requires the knowledge of an attorney. Further, it appears that
Defendants have mistaken SPROG No. 63 for SPROG No. 64, which concerns
documents and not witnesses. In a sense Defendants have provided no response to
SPROG No. 63 at all.  ·      
SPROG No.
64 asks Defendants to identify
all documents supporting their contention that Plaintiffs have discriminated
against them in any manner whatsoever. Defendants’ response identifies no
documents, nor does it state that no responsive documents exist. As previously
stated, Defendants appear to have omitted the text of SPROG No. 64 from their
responses. Defendants’ response identifies no documents, nor does it state that
no responsive documents exist. ·      
SPROG No.
65 asks Defendants whether
they contend that they do not owe rent because repairs were paid for and
deducted from the rent. Defendants respond “Documents have not been provided by
the Plaintiff (who does have them), and his Agents, which would be necessary to
answer this question. Requires the knowledge of an attorney.” The Court finds
this response insufficient. Defendants are refusing to answer a question of
which they would necessarily have knowledge on basis that Plaintiffs have not
produced some unspecified documents. Whether Defendants contend that they
withheld rent for repairs made is a matter which would be within their
knowledge without the support of any documents. As such, further response is
required.  ·      
SPROG No.
66 asks Defendants to state
all facts supporting their contention that they do not owe rent because repairs
were paid for and deducted from the rent. Defendants response is identical to
that in SPROG No. 65. As previously stated, this answer is insufficient.
Defendants’ response identifies no facts upon which their contention is based.
As such, further response is required. ·      
SPROG No.
67 asks Defendants to identify
all witnesses to the fact that they do not owe rent because repairs were paid
for and deducted from the rent. Defendants answer only that this question is
duplicative and requires the knowledge of an attorney. Defendants’ response
identifies no witnesses. ·      
SPROG No.
68 asks Defendants to identify
all documents supporting their contention that they do not owe rent because
repairs were paid for and deducted from the rent. Defendants’ response
identifies no documents, nor does it state that no responsive documents exist. Defendants’
contention that Plaintiffs must provide these documents is without merit. If
Defendants contend that they deducted rent from repairs made by Defendant,
logic dictates they would have documents detailing such repairs. To the extent
that Defendants no longer have these documents, they do not so state.  Conclusion
 Given the
foregoing, the motions to compel further responses are DENIED as to SPROG Nos.
1, 3, 6, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17, 21, 23, 30, and 31. The motion to compel further
responses is GRANTED as to all other SPROG.  II.         
DEFENDANTS’
MOTIONS TO COMPEL RESPONSES  Defendants
move to compel Plaintiffs’ response to Defendants’ SPROG Set Two. These motions
initially came on for hearing on September 5, 2024. At that time, the Court
ordered “Plaintiffs’ counsel to reproduce all discovery by 09/11/2024 by 4:00
p.m., personally serve it or send all documents via certified mall or at least
and orders the defendants to pick up the discovery in person.” (See 9/5/24
Minute Order.) The matter was then continued to September 20, 2024 so the Court
could ensure compliance.  At this
juncture the Court seeks to analyze these motions only as necessary to
determine whether Defendants have received responses to their SPROG Set Two.  Defendants
state that they propounded their SPROG Set Two on Plaintiffs counsel on June
25, 2024. (Valentine Decl. ¶ 2.) Defendants further state that they
received no responses by the July 10, 2024 deadline. (Valentine Decl. ¶ 3.) Nor
did Plaintiffs respond to Defendants’ meet and confer efforts. (Valentine Decl.
¶¶ 4-5.) As previously mentioned, on September 5, 2024, the Court ordered
Plaintiffs to produce the discovery responses by September 11, 2024 no later
than 4:00p.m.  At the
September 20 hearing, the parties presented a variety of arguments as to
whether Plaintiffs and Defendants actually complied with the Court’s order.
Plaintiffs represented that Defendants were late to pick up the discovery, thus
they were delivered in the form of a flash drive dropped in Defendants’ mailbox.
Defendants represented that they refused to touch the flash drive on the belief
that it had been improperly served. The Court did not find any of these
arguments particularly persuasive.  As
previously stated, the Court is primarily concerned with whether Defendants
have received Plaintiffs responses to their SPROG Set Two. It appears from
Defendants’ “Complaint of Plaintiff’s Disregard for Court Order, Mail Fraud,
Mail Tampering” (a document which has only been handed to the Court and not
filed) that such production has occurred. Defendants state that Plaintiffs’
attorney dropped the discovery responses in Defendants’ mailbox sometime
between 3:30 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. on September 11, 2024. Plaintiffs’ attach a
copy of their responses to SPROG Set Two as Exhibits to their motions. Given
that Plaintiffs’ responses have now been indisputably received by Defendants,
there remains nothing further to compel.  Accordingly,
the motions to compel Plaintiffs’ responses to SPROG Set Two are DENIED as
MOOT. ---  RULING: In the
event the parties submit on this tentative ruling, or a party requests a signed
order or the court in its discretion elects to sign a formal order, the
following form will be either electronically signed or signed in hard copy and
entered into the court’s records.  ORDER  Gary & Kathleen
Pantaleo’s Motions to Compel Further Responses and Christopher
Valentine & Christian Tolen Von Lahr’s Motions to Compel Initial Responses came on regularly for hearing on September 26, 2024, with
appearances/submissions as noted in the minute order for said hearing, and the
court, being fully advised in the premises, did then and there rule as
follows:  PLAINTIFFS’
MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES ARE DENIED AS TO SPROG NOS. 1, 3, 6, 7, 9,
11, 13, 15, 17, 21, 23, 30, AND 31.  PLAINTIFFS’
MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES ARE GRANTED AS TO ALL OTHER SPROG.  DEFENDANTS’
MOTIONS TO COMPEL PLAINTIFFS’ INITIAL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES SET
TWO ARE DENIED AS MOOT.  IT IS SO
ORDERED.  DATE: 
September 26, 2024                          _______________________________                                                                    
    F.M.
TAVELMAN, Judge Superior Court of California County of
Los Angeles  







































































































































































































































































































































































































































































 