  Case Number:  19STLC03906    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  26 Karpa Trading, Inc. v. ADIRC Capital LLC, et al.MOTION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT, GRANT LEAVE TO FILE AND SERVE A NEW ANSWER, AND CONTINUE TRIAL
(CCP § 473.5)
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
Defendant ADIRC Capital LLC’s Motion to Set Aside the Entry
of Default is granted.Background
            Karpa
Trading, Inc. (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint on April 19, 2019. The Complaint
alleges that Plaintiff provided restaurant products to ADIRC Capital, LLC
(Defendant), and that Defendant never paid for these products. (Complaint, BC-1
& CC-1.)  
 
            The motion
now before the Court is Defendant’s Motion to (1) Set Aside the Entry of
Default (2) Grant Leave to File and Serve a New Answer and (3) to Continue
Trial. Plaintiff filed an opposition on April 2, 2024, and Defendant filed a
reply on April 8, 2024. However, Plaintiff withdrew the opposition on April 15,
2024, and supplemental briefing was filed by Defendant on April 23, 2024,
providing the Court with more detail as to what transpired. 
 
Discussion
 
Legal Standard
            “Section
473.5, subdivision (c) allows the court to set aside the default judgment if it
finds the defendant's lack of actual notice in time to defend was not caused by
the defendant's avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect.” (Ellard v.
Conway (2001) 94 Cal. App. 4th 540, 547.) “Section 473.5 requires that the
motion to set aside the default judgment be accompanied by ‘an affidavit
showing under oath that the party's lack of actual notice in time to defend the
action was not caused by his or her avoidance of service or inexcusable
neglect’ and ‘a copy of the answer, motion, or other pleading proposed to be
filed in the action.’” (Sakaguchi v. Sakaguchi (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th
852, 861.)
 
Analysis
            ADIRC LLC
is an entity defendant, Joseph Lee (Mr. Lee) is the manager of the entity. In
their moving papers, Mr. Lee argues that they were not aware that a default had
been entered against Defendant ADIRC LLC. The moving papers contend that Mr.
Lee is an immigrant from China whose primary language is Mandarin Chinese, and
his knowledge of the English language is limited. Defendant further argues that
during the period when the answer was stricken (October 23, 2023, see Minute
Order for same date) and when default was entered (November 9, 2023, see
Request for Entry of Default for same date) Defendant was unrepresented.
Although the Court’s docket reflects these assertions as true, they do not fall
within the ambit of issues Code Civ. Proc. §473.5 is meant to remedy. However,
Defendant provides further details with supplemental briefs that require the
consideration of the Court. 
 
            The Court’s
docket reflects that Defendant’s prior counsel, Kenneth I. Gross (Attorney Gross)
filed motions to be relieved as counsel and these motions were granted on
August 9, 2023. In the Supplemental Declaration of Joseph Lee (Lee Suppl.
Decl.) and the accompanying Declaration of Randy Chang (Chang Decl.), Mr. Lee
states that after Gross withdrew, he reached out to attorney William Crosby
(Attorney Crosby) to represent Mr. Lee. (Lee Suppl. Decl., ¶2.) However,
although Mr. Lee signed a retainer and provided payment, the Court has no
substitution for Attorney Crosby on file. According to the Chang Decl., it was
only after Attorney Randy Chang (Attorney Chang) investigated the matter that
it was found that ADIRC was in default. (Chang Decl., ¶2.)
 
            Mr. Lee
claims that this was the first time he found out about ADIRC being in default.
(Lee Suppl. Decl. ¶ 3.) Attorney Chang reached out to Attorney Crosby to ask
why no answer was on file. (Chang Decl., ¶2.) Mr. Crosby stated that he
received no notice from the Court. Notice regarding the answer being struck was
provided on October 24, 2023 when Plaintiff’s counsel mailed notice to the
addresses of both Mr. Lee and Defendant. (See Notice or Ruling filed October
24, 2023 and October 23, 2023 Minute Order.) However, it appears that Attorney
Crosby received no notice because no substitution of counsel was ever filed.
This is clear error on the part of Attorney Crosby, not ADIRC or Mr. Lee.
 
            Attorney
Chang then requested that Attorney Crosby file a motion to vacate, however, in
the moving papers authored by Attorney Crosby, the aforementioned details of
Attorney Crosby’s error were left out and not brought to the attention of the
Court. (See generally, Moving Papers.)  
 
            Taking into
consideration Plaintiff’s withdrawal of their opposition, and the clear
attorney error through no fault of ADIRC or Mr. Lee, the Court grants the
Motion to Set Aside Default Entry. Under Code Civ. Proc. 437(b) the court me
relieve a party from dismissal due to mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect. In the interests of justice, the Court shall do so here.
 
Conclusion
            Defendant
ADIRC Capital LLC’s Motion to Set Aside the Entry of Default is GRANTED.
The Court will grant leave to file and serve a new answer and grant the motion
to continue trial.
 
 
 
Moving party to give notice. 
