 Case Number:  23STCP03756    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  26   
Fang v. RC Windows and Door, et al.PETITION
TO RELEASE MECHANIC’S LIEN
(Civil
Code § 8480)
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Petitioner Qiang Fang’s Petition to Release Property from
Mechanic’s Lien is GRANTED. PETITIONER IS TO FILE AND SERVE A PROPOSED JUDGMENT
WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Petitioner Qiang Fang (“Petitioner”) filed the instant
Petition for Release of Mechanic’s Lien against Respondent RC Windows and Door (“Respondent”)
on October 11, 2023. Following the initial hearing on February 14, 2024, the
Court continued the matter to May 15, 2024. (Minute Order, 02/14/24.) Petitioner
filed an Amended Petition on April 2, 2024. No response to the Petition has
been filed to date. 
 
Discussion
 
Petitioner moves to have the mechanic’s lien recorded
against their property by Respondent released. The Petition does not cite the
relevant moving statute to release the lien. Under Civil Code section 8484 the
petition for release order be verified by the petitioner and allege the
following:
 
(a) The date of recordation of the
claim of lien. A certified copy of the claim of lien shall be attached to the
petition.
(b) The county in which the claim of
lien is recorded.
(c) The book and page or series number
of the place in the official records where the claim of lien is recorded.
(d) The legal description of the
property subject to the claim of lien.
(e) Whether an extension of credit has
been granted under Section 8460, if so to what date, and that the time for
commencement of an action to enforce the lien has expired.
(f) That the owner has given the
claimant notice under Section 8482 demanding that the claimant execute and
record a release of the lien and that the claimant is unable or unwilling to do
so or cannot with reasonable diligence be found.
(g) Whether an action to enforce the
lien is pending.
(h) Whether the owner of the property
or interest in the property has filed for relief in bankruptcy or there is
another restraint that prevents the claimant from commencing an action to
enforce the lien.
 
(Civil Code, § 8484.) The Amended Petition contains all the
required information, is now verified and attaches a certified copy of the
lien. Additionally, service of the Petition and Notice of Hearing now complies
with Civil Code section 8486, subdivision (b), which requires service to “be
made in the same manner as service of summons, or by certified or registered
mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested . . . .” (Civ. Code, § 8486,
subd. (b).) The papers were served by certified mail with return receipt
requested. (Proof of Service, filed 04/05/24.) 
 
Conclusion
 
Therefore, Petitioner Qiang
Fang’s Petition to Release Property from Mechanic’s Lien is GRANTED. PETITIONER
IS TO FILE AND SERVE A PROPOSED JUDGMENT WITHIN 20 DAYS OF THIS ORDER.
 
 
Court clerk to give notice. 
 
 
 
 
 