 Case Number:  23TRCV03801    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
JEAN
  PAUL HERNAN SOLIS LINARES, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03801




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING RE: MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO SPECIAL INTERROGATORIES 




 
JENNA
  NICOLE VELASQUEZ,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          May 22, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Defendant Jenna Nicole Velazquez 
Responding
Party:                  Plaintiff Jean Paul Hernan Solis Linares 
Motion
to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories 
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            Defendant’s Motion to Compel Further Response to Special Interrogatory
No. 2 is GRANTED.  However, Plaintiff is
only required to provide responses for the time frame of 5-years before the
incident to the present.  No sanctions
are awarded.  
BACKGROUND
            On November 14, 2023, Plaintiff Jean
Paul Hernan Solis Linares filed a complaint against Defendant Jenna Nicole
Velazquez alleging (1) Motor Vehicle; and (2) general negligence.  On October 30, 2022, Plaintiff was sitting in
his parked vehicle when Defendant negligently rear-ended him.  Defendant was allegedly negligently operating
his vehicle at an unsafe speed. 
LEGAL AUTHORITY
CCP
§2030.300
(a)
On receipt of a response to interrogatories, the propounding party may move for
an order compelling a further response if the propounding party deems that any
of the following apply:
            (1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete.
            (2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate.
            (3) An objection to an interrogatory
is without merit or too general.
(b)(1)
A motion under subdivision (a) shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.
(2)
In lieu of a separate statement required under the California Rules of Court,
the court may allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the
discovery request and each response in dispute.
(c)
Unless notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the
verified response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any
specific later date to which the propounding party and the responding party
have agreed in writing, the propounding party waives any right to compel a
further response to the interrogatories.
(d)
The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel a further response to interrogatories,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.
(e)
If a party then fails to obey an order compelling further response to
interrogatories, the court may make those orders that are just, including the
imposition of an issue sanction, an evidence sanction, or a terminating
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010). In lieu of, or in
addition to, that sanction, the court may impose a monetary sanction under
Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).
 
            If a timely motion to compel has
been filed, the burden is on the responding party to justify any objection or
failure to fully answer the interrogatories and RFAs. (Coy v. Sup.Ct.
(Wolcher) (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210, 220–221; Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Sup.Ct.
(Stendell) (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) 
 
 
DISCUSSION
            Parties’
Positions 
            Defendant
Velazquez moves to compel responses to Special Interrogatory No. 2.  Defendant argues Plaintiff asserted meritless
objections based on privacy and referred Defendant to documents previously
produced regarding Plaintiff’s treatment for injuries necessitated by the
accident with Defendant.  Defendant
argues Plaintiff waived any objection based on privacy by filing this action
and alleging physical injuries to multiple parts of his body.  Defendant argues Special Interrogatory No. 2
is not asking Plaintiff to produce medical records for the past 10 years.  Defendant argues Special Interrogatory No. 2
asks Plaintiff to identify those medical providers who treated him for the past
10 years.      
            In opposition,
Plaintiff argues the motion must be denied, because Defendant failed to file a
separate statement as required under CRC Rule 3.1345.  Plaintiff also argues the objection based on
privacy is meritorious.  Plaintiff argues
Defendant is not entitled to information that is irrelevant to Plaintiff’s
injury claims.  Plaintiff argues
Defendant is therefore limited to discovery regarding treatment received as a
result of this subject incident and prior treatments to the same body parts or
conditions Plaintiff claims were injured as a result of the incident.  Plaintiff argues the injuries he claims does
not justify requiring him to identify all the health care providers he has seen
in the past 10 years. Plaintiff argues Defendant is not entitled to go on a
fishing expedition involving his medical history, nor is it sufficient to
speculate that the doctors with which Plaintiff has treated have relevant
medical records.  
            In
reply, Defendant argues it is Plaintiff’s burden to establish that the privacy
objection is meritorious. Defendant argues he is not seeking the substantive
medical records, only the identity of Plaintiff’s medical providers.  Defendant argues Plaintiff has claimed injury
to numerous parts of his entire body. 
Defendant argues restricting the interrogatory to those body parts is
unrealistic.  Defendant argues he has
also cured the failure to file a separate statement by filing a CRC Rule 3.1345
Separate Statement on reply.
            Failure
to file CRC Rule 3.1345 Separate Statement not fatal
            Defendant is only seeking to
compel further response to a single interrogatory.  Defendant sets forth the full text of the
interrogatory in the memo of points and authorities and Plaintiff’s response is
included as Exhibit B to the Motion.  (Motion,
Sasaki Dec., Ex. B, p. 4.)  There is no
prejudice to Plaintiff as a result of Defendant’s failure to file a CRC Rule
3.1345 and the Court can readily determine the discovery request and response
at issue, as well as the reasons to compel further.  
            Plaintiff
fails to justify his privacy objection, but the Court agrees that a 10-year
time frame is overbroad
            “In Hill, we
established a framework for evaluating potential invasions of privacy. The
party asserting a privacy right must establish a legally protected privacy
interest, an objectively reasonable expectation of privacy in the given
circumstances, and a threatened intrusion that is serious.  The party seeking information may raise in
response whatever legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure
serves, while the party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives
that serve the same interests or protective measures that would diminish the
loss of privacy. A court must then balance these competing
considerations.”  (Williams v.
Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 552 (citing Hill v. National
Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 35).)
            “Whether
a legally recognized privacy interest is present in a given case is a question
of law to be decided by the court.  Whether
plaintiff has a reasonable expectation of privacy in the circumstances and
whether defendant's conduct constitutes a serious invasion of privacy are mixed
questions of law and fact. If the undisputed material facts show no reasonable
expectation of privacy or an insubstantial impact on privacy interests, the
question of invasion may be adjudicated as a matter of law.”  (Hill, supra, 7 Cal.4th at 40.)
            “In
general, the court should not proceed to balancing unless a satisfactory
threshold showing is made. A defendant is entitled to prevail if it negates any
of the three required elements. A defendant can also prevail at the balancing
stage. An otherwise actionable invasion of privacy may be legally justified if
it substantively furthers one or more legitimate competing interests. (Hill,
supra, 7 Cal.4th at 40.) 
Conversely, the invasion may be unjustified if the claimant can point to
“feasible and effective alternatives” with “a lesser impact on privacy
interests.”  (County of Los Angeles v.
Los Angeles County Employee Relations Com. (2013) 56 Cal.4th 905, 926.)
            (1)  Legally protected interest.  Plaintiff undisputedly has a legally
protected interest in his medical history and the persons he has seen for
medical treatment in the past 10 years.  
            (2)  Reasonable expectation of privacy.  “The extent of a privacy interest is not
independent of the circumstances.  Even
when a legally cognizable privacy interest is present, other factors may affect
a person's reasonable expectation of privacy. For example, advance notice of an
impending action may serve to limit an intrusion upon personal dignity and
security that would otherwise be regarded as serious.  In addition, customs, practices, and physical
settings surrounding particular activities may create or inhibit reasonable
expectations of privacy.  A ‘reasonable’
expectation of privacy is an objective entitlement founded on broadly based and
widely accepted community norms.  Finally,
the presence or absence of opportunities to consent voluntarily to activities
impacting privacy interests obviously affects the expectations of the
participant.”  (Hill, supra,
7 Cal.4th at 36-37 (athletes who voluntarily choose to participate in college
athletics have diminished expectation of personal privacy in his or her bodily
condition, such that drug testing programs routinely survive Fourth Amendment
“privacy” challenges).)  
            “In
determining whether one has waived the right of privacy by bringing suit, our
Supreme Court has noted that although there may be an implicit partial waiver,
the scope of such waiver must be narrowly, rather than expansively construed,
so that plaintiffs will not be unduly deterred from instituting lawsuits by
fear of exposure of private activities. 
An implicit waiver of a party's constitutional rights encompasses only
discovery directly relevant to the plaintiff's claim and essential to the fair
resolution of the lawsuit.”  (Davis v.
Superior Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1014 (citing Vinson v. Supr. Ct.
(1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 842 (quoting Britt v. Supr. Ct. (1978) 20 Cal.3d
844, 859).)
            Given
Plaintiff’s response to Form Rog 6.2 identifying his injuries as headaches and
injury to the left side of his neck, left side of his ack, his left ribs, left
abdomen, left should, left pal, left wrist, left thigh and left knee, Plaintiff
fails to establish a reasonable expectation of privacy over the identity of his
medical providers.  As acknowledged by
Plaintiff, his privacy right over any information is waived if put at issue by
this litigation.  (Britt v. Sup. Ct.
(1978) 20 Cal.3d 844, 864; Vinson v. Sup. Ct. (1987) .)  Plaintiff has put prior injury to nearly his
entire body at issue by claiming the injuries he lists in his response to Form
Rog 6.2.  At the very least, Defendant is
entitled to conduct discovery into Plaintiff’s medical history to determine if
some of Plaintiff’s claimed injuries were preexisting.
            However,
a time frame of 10 years is overbroad. 
Plaintiff’s alleged injuries does not put at issue 10-years worth of
medical treatment.  Plaintiff’s responses
should be limited to 5-years prior to the incident to the present.  
            (3)  Threatened intrusion that is serious.  Plaintiff fails to demonstrate a serious
invasion of privacy.  Defendant rightly
points out that he is only seeking the identity of Plaintiff’s medical
providers and from that information, he will cull those providers he believes will
have relevant information tot his action. 
Moreover, any threatened invasion of privacy can be addressed with a
standard protective order. 
            Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatory No. 2 is
granted.  The relevant time frame,
however, is limited to five years prior to the incident to the present.   
            Sanctions
            Defendant
does not include a request for sanctions in the Notice of Motion.  Defendant’s only reference to sanctions is in
the conclusion wherein he asks that Plaintiff “pay appropriate monetary
sanctions.”  Defendant’s request for
sanctions fails to comply with CCP §2023.040, which requires that the sanctions
request be included in the Notice of Motion and the Notice identify the type of
sanctions, the amount of sanctions and the persons against whom the sanctions
are requested.  Moreover, Defendant only
prevailed in part on his interrogatory. 
For these reasons, no sanctions are awarded.    
ORDER
            Defendant’s
Motion to Compel Further Response to Special Interrogatory No. 2 is
GRANTED.  However, Plaintiff is only
required to provide responses for the time frame of 5-years before the incident
to the present.  Plaintiff is ordered to
serve further responses within 20 days.  No
sanctions are awarded.  
            Moving
party is ordered to give notice of ruling.