 Case Number:  23TRCV03630    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
GLORIA
  CALDWELL, by and through her Power of Attorney, TERRIE BAIRD,
 


 
 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03630




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING re MOTION FOR TRIAL PREFERENCE
 




 
DRIFTWOOD
  HEALTHCARE CENTER LLC d/b/a DRIFTWOOD HEALTHCARE CENTER, et al.,


 
 
 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                       May 22, 2024
 
Moving Parties:                      Gloria Caldwell, by and
through her Power of Attorney, Terrie Baird
Responding Party:                  Driftwood Healthcare Center LLC
d/b/a Driftwood Healthcare Center
Motion
for Trial Preference
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
RULING
            The motion is GRANTED. The court
will set a trial date within 120 days of the court’s order at the hearing on
this motion.
BACKGROUND
            This is an elder abuse case. On
October 31, 2023, plaintiff Gloria Caldwell, by and through her Power of
Attorney, Terrie Baird, filed this action against defendants Driftwood
Healthcare Center LLC d/b/a Driftwood Healthcare Center (“Driftwood”), Citrus
Wellness Center, LLC, Ensemble Healthcare, LLC, Rechnitz Citrus, GP, and Does 1
through 50, alleging causes of action for negligence, violations of the Elder
and Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act, and violations of resident rights. On
April 24, 2024, plaintiff dismissed Citrus Wellness Center, LLC, Ensemble
Healthcare, LLC, and Rechnitz Citrus, GP from this action.
            On April 12, 2024, plaintiff moved
for trial preference under Code of Civil Procedure section 36. On May 9, 2024, Driftwood opposed the motion.
Plaintiff did not reply.
LEGAL AUTHORITY
A
party to a civil action who is over 70 years of age
may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the
court makes both of the following findings: (1) The
party has a substantial interest in the action as a whole. (2) The health of
the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the
party's interest in the litigation.” Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a).
Unless
the court otherwise orders: (1) A party may file and
serve a motion for preference supported by a
declaration of the moving party that all
essential parties have been served with process or have appeared. (2) At any
time during the pendency of the action, a
party who reaches 70 years of age may
file and serve a motion for preference.” Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd.
(c).
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
            The court DENIES Driftwood’s request
for judicial notice. “A party requesting
judicial notice
of material under Evidence Code sections 452 or 453 must provide the court and
each party with a copy of the material. If the material is part of a file in
the court in which the matter is being heard, the party must: (1) Specify in
writing the part of the court file sought to be judicially
noticed; and (2) Either make
arrangements with the clerk to have the file in the courtroom at the time of
the hearing or confirm with the clerk that the file is
electronically accessible to the court.” Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1306, subd. (c). Driftwood 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
            The court OVERRULES Driftwood’s evidentiary
objections. Code of Civil Procedure section 36.5 makes clear that the moving
party’s attorney may provide a declaration based on information and belief as
to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party in support of a motion for
trial preference. Code Civ. Proc., § 36.5. 
DISCUSSION
            Plaintiff
moves for trial preference under Code of Civil Procedure section 36 on the
grounds that she is 86 years old, has a substantial interest in this action as
a whole, and currently has health problems of arthritis, dementia, and Type 2
diabetes mellitis. Plaintiff also contends that she is under hospice care,
which requires certification by a licensed physician that she is terminally
ill. Plaintiff contends these factors make it substantially unlikely she will
survive before this case is brought to trial if preference is not granted.
            In
opposition, Driftwood contends there is no evidence to support plaintiff’s
claim that her health warrants trial preference. Driftwood contends the
declaration of Janine A. Mitchell submitted in support of the motion is
improper because Ms. Mitchell is not the attorney for plaintiff and she did not
attest to plaintiff’s prognosis. Driftwood also contends none of the evidence
submitted indicate the risk of imminent death, plaintiff’s prognosis, nor her
purported hospice certification by a licensed physician. Driftwood states that
the document relied upon is a discharge summary from Torrance Memorial Medical
Center on January 26, 2023, but it does not provide plaintiff’s prognosis or a
certification for hospice care. Driftwood further cites to plaintiff’s verified
discovery responses indicating that she has not been seen by a physician or
hospice provider. Additionally, Driftwood argues that a grant of trial
preference would violate its due process rights by shortening the discovery
period in a complex action like this one and shortening Driftwood’s time to
file a motion for summary judgment.
            The court finds that plaintiff is entitled to
preference under Code of Civil Procedure section 36. Plaintiff has clearly
shown that she is over the age of 70 and that she has many health challenges
which make it likely that she would not survive before this case is brought to
trial. Mitchell Decl., ¶¶ 5-8. While the court agrees with Driftwood that the
discharge summary plaintiff submitted does not conclusively establish she is in
hospice care, see Mitchell Decl., Ex. 1, that is not necessary to warrant preference.
Plaintiff must only prove that she is at least 70 years old and that she has
health problems that may prejudice her interests in the litigation. See Code
Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (a). The court finds plaintiff has satisfied moving
burden. Once this burden is met, preference is mandatory. “[S]ubdivision
(a) of section 36 is mandatory and absolute in its application in civil cases
whenever the litigants are 70 years old.’ [Citation.]” Swaithes v. Superior Ct. (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d 1082,
1086. As for the adverse impact on Driftwood’s ability to conduct discovery and
serve a motion for summary judgment, those interests acquiesce to the mandatory
nature of trial preference. See Id.
            Based on the foregoing, the
court GRANTS the motion. The court will set a trial date within 120 days of the
hearing on this order.
ORDER
            The motion is GRANTED. The court
will set a trial date within 120 days of the court’s order at the hearing on
this motion
            Moving
party is ordered to give notice of ruling.