 Case Number:  23TRCV03492    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  B 


Superior
  Court of California
County
  of Los Angeles
Southwest
  District
Torrance
  Dept. B




 
MOHAMMAD
  ZERNEZHAD, et al., 


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23TRCV03492




 
vs.


 


 
[Tentative]
  RULING RE: MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
 




 
HYUNDAI
  MOTOR AMERICA, et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing
Date:                          May 22, 2024
 
Moving
Parties:                      Hyundai Motor America 
Responding
Party:                  Mohammad Zarenezhad 
Motion
to Compel Arbitration and Stay Action 
 
            The court considered the moving,
opposition, and reply papers.
 
RULING
            Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration is GRANTED.  
BACKGROUND
            On October 19, 2023, Plaintiff
Mohammad Zarenezhad filed a complaint against Defendant Hyundai Motor America
for violations of the Song Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, express warranty and
violation of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act. 
Plaintiff alleges causes of action for (1) violation of Civil Code
§1793.2(d); (2) violation of Civil Code §1793.2; (3) violation of Civil Code
§1793.2; (4) breach of the implied warranty of merchantability (Civil Code
§1791.1, 1794, 1795.5); and (5) violation of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act.
 
            Plaintiff alleges that he entered
into a warranty contract with Defendant on April 5, 2020 relating to a 2020
Hyundai Elantra.  Plaintiff alleges the
vehicle manifested defects within the warranty period.  Plaintiff alleges Defendant failed to either
repurchase or replace the vehicle after failing to cure the defects after a
reasonable number of attempts.  
LEGAL AUTHORITY
            “A written provision in any []
contract evidencing a transaction involving commerce to settle by arbitration a
controversy thereafter arising out of such contract or transaction, or the
refusal to perform the whole or any part thereof, or an agreement in writing to
submit to arbitration an existing controversy arising out of such a contract,
transaction, or refusal, shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save
upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any
contract.”  9 U.S.C. § 2.  
            Under California and federal law, public policy favors arbitration as an
efficient and less expensive means of resolving private disputes. (Moncharsh
v. Heily & Blasé (1992) 3 Cal.4th 1, 8-9; AT&T Mobility LLC v.
Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339.) Accordingly, whether an agreement is
governed by the California Arbitration Act or the Federal Arbitration Act,
courts resolve doubt about an arbitration agreement’s scope in favor of
arbitration. (Moncharsh, supra, 3 Cal.4th at p. 9; Comedy
Club, Inc. v. Improv West Associates (9th Cir. 2009) 553 F.3d 1277, 1284; see
also Engalla v. Permanente Med. Grp., Inc. (1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971-72 (“California
law incorporates many of the basic policy objectives contained in the Federal
Arbitration Act, including a presumption in favor of arbitrability [citation]
and a requirement that an arbitration agreement must be enforced on the basis
of state law standards that apply to contracts in general.”).)  “[U]nder both the FAA and California law,
‘arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, save upon such
grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation of any contract.’” (Higgins
v. Superior Court (2006) 140 Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.) 
            The
party seeking to compel arbitration bears the burden of proving the existence
of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence.  (Engalla, supra, 15 Cal.4th
951, 972.)  A petition to compel
arbitration must allege both a “written agreement to arbitrate” the
controversy, and that a party to that agreement “refuses to arbitrate” the
controversy. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.)   The existence of a valid agreement to
arbitrate involves general contract principles and state law governs disposition
of that question.  (Stirlen v.
Supercuts, Inc. (1997) 51 Cal.App.4th 1519, 1547.)  It then becomes plaintiff’s burden, in
opposing the motion, to prove by a preponderance of the evidence any fact
necessary to her opposition. (Id..) 

            “Code
of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 requires a trial court to grant a petition to
compel arbitration ‘if the court determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists.’”  (Avery v.
Integrated Healthcare Holdings, Inc. (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 50, 59 (Avery),
quoting Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.2).) Accordingly, “when presented with a
petition to compel arbitration, the court’s first task is to determine whether
the parties have in fact agreed to arbitrate the dispute.” (Id., at p.
59.) 
            Generally,
on a petition to compel arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless
it finds either (1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2) the right to
compel arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the
agreement; or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration
unnecessary or create conflicting rulings on common issues. (Id.; see
also Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215,
218-219.) “In these summary proceedings the trial court sits as a trier of
fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court’s discretion, to
reach a final determination.” (Avery, supra, 218 Cal.App.4th at
p. 59; accord Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial Securities Corp.
(1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) 
            
DISCUSSION
            Parties’
Positions 
            Defendants
ask that the Court compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims based on (1) the
arbitration agreement found in the warranty for the subject vehicle (“Warranty
Booklet”) and/or (2) the Retail Sale Contract (“Sale Contract”) signed by
Plaintiff, requiring that Plaintiff arbitration any disputes concerning the
condition or purchase of the Vehicle by binding arbitration.  
            Defendant
argues Plaintiff’s claims are subject to the Federal Arbitration Act
(“FAA”).  Defendant argues the
arbitration agreement in the Warranty Booklet expressly states that it will be
governed and interpreted under the FAA.
            Defendant
argues it has standing to enforce the arbitration agreement in the Warranty
Booklet, because the warranty explicitly states it is being made contingent on
the binding arbitration agreement. 
Defendant argues Plaintiff expressly sued on the Warranty Booklet, he
purchased his vehicle in California, and that repairs have been performed under
the Warranty Booklet. Defendant argues it therefore has standing to enforce the
arbitration agreement.  
            Defendant
argues it was the direct provider of the warranty and Plaintiff is suing it for
the obligations contained therein. 
Defendant argues it is also entitled to enforce the agreement based on
the doctrine of equitable estoppel. Defendant argues that, if Plaintiff argues
the arbitration agreement is unenforceable because it is not signed by him, Plaintiff
is equitably estopped from avoiding the arbitration agreement contained in the
Warranty Booklet on such grounds, given that Plaintiff is simultaneously suing
on the Warranty Booklet.
            In
the alternative, Defendant asks that the Court compel arbitration pursuant to
the Sale Contract.  Defendant argues it
is entitled to sue under the Sale Contract even though it was not a party
thereto or named therein, because the Warranty Booklet presumes the existence
of the Sale Contract.  Defendant argues
Plaintiff’s claims fall within the disputes subject to the Sale Contract’s
arbitration agreement.  
            Finally,
Defendant argues it has not acted inconsistently with a desire to
arbitrate.  Defendant argues Plaintiff
cannot establish that it has waived its right to arbitrate.  Defendant argues the only actions it has
taken in this litigation is filing of an Answer and this Motion and service of
limited discovery.  
            Defendant
asks that the Court stay this action while the motion is pending.  Defendant asks that the Court stay the action
pending completion of arbitration if the motion is granted. 
            Defendant
argues the Court is not bound by the holding in Ochoa v. Ford Motor Co.,
which held that a nonsignatory auto manufacturer could not compel arbitration
pursuant to a sales or lease agreement. 
Defendant argues there is a split in authority and asks that the Court
side with Felisilda, which found that a nonsignatory manufacturer could
compel arbitration pursuant to a sales or lease agreement.
            In
opposition, Plaintiff argues the Supreme Court has held that the Court cannot
fashion special rules to favor arbitration. 
Plaintiff argues Defendant fails to present any evidence of mutual
assent to the arbitration provision. 
Plaintiff argues Defendant fails to present any evidence that the
Warranty Booklet was presented to him prior to purchasing the vehicle, that
Plaintiff read the Warranty Booklet, that Plaintiff read the arbitration
provision or that Plaintiff consented to it. 
Plaintiff argues there is no evidence of contract formation.  
            Plaintiff
argues warranty law only imposes obligations on the seller, not the buyer.  Plaintiff argues silence or failure to reject
the arbitration provision does not constitute consent.  Plaintiff argues there is no evidence that he
ever affirmatively consented to the arbitration agreement and equitable
estoppel cannot apply absent such evidence. 
Plaintiff argues he was completely unaware of the arbitration agreement
prior to the sale.  
            Plaintiff
argues that, separately, the Warranty Booklet is unconscionable.  Plaintiff argues the Warranty Booklet is
procedurally unconscionable, because there is no evidence that it was ever
presented to Plaintiff prior to purchase of the vehicle, nor is there evidence
that Plaintiff was ever informed of the existence of the arbitration
provision.  Plaintiff argues the
provision is in the middle of the booklet, does not require any signature and
does not require any initials.  
            Plaintiff
argues the arbitration provision is also substantively unconscionable, because on
public policy grounds.  Plaintiff argues
arbitration provisions are unenforceable on public policy grounds if they
impede enforcement of unwaivable statutory rights.  Plaintiff argues his rights under the Song
Beverly Act are unwaivable.  Plaintiff
argues his claims therefore cannot be shunted to arbitration.
            In
reply, Defendant argues that under the FAA the arbitration agreement should be
enforced.  Defendant argues the agreement
to arbitrate is not unconscionable.  Defendant
argues even an unsigned agreement to arbitrate is enforceable.  Defendant argues the arbitration provision is
not buried, as it is on the first page of the Hyundai Warranty Information
section and it is also provided in the easy to read Table of Contents.  Defendant argues the heading of the
arbitration provision is capitalized and in boldface text.  Defendant argues there is also no substantive
unconscionability.  Defendant argues the
terms of the arbitration are equally applied, allows Plaintiff to choose the
location of JAMS in Plaintiff’s city or county of residence, provides that
Defendant is obligated to pay all fees for any arbitration except for the
initial filing fee of $250 and there is no fee-shifting provision stated
therein.  
            Defendant
reiterates that Plaintiff is barred by the doctrine of equitable estoppel from
asserting that the arbitration agreement is unenforceable.  Defendant argues Plaintiff is suing on the
Warranty agreement and attaches it to the complaint.  
            Defendant
argues the Court should follow Felisilda and compel arbitration pursuant
to the Sale Contract if it does not compel arbitration pursuant to the Warranty
Booklet.  
            Defendant establishes
the existence of an enforceable arbitration agreement in the Warranty Booklet
            Plaintiff’s
complaint is based on a warranty contract entered into with Defendant on April
5, 2020.  (Complaint, ¶6.)  A copy of the warranty contract is attached
as Exhibit A to the Complaint. 
(Complaint, Ex. A.)  The warranty
contract is the “2020 Owner’s Handbook & Warranty Information,” the
identical Warranty Booklet that is the basis of Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration  (Id.).  In fact, Exhibit A to the Plaintiff’s
complaint contains the very arbitration provision under which Defendant is seeking
to compel arbitration.  (Complaint, Ex.
A, p. 3, 12-13.)  Based on Plaintiff’s
own complaint allegations, he agreed to the arbitration agreement contained in
the Warranty Booklet when he “entered” into the “warranty contract” on April 5,
2020.
            For
this reason, Plaintiff is also equitably estopped from denying that he agreed
to the contract based on lack of a signature. 
Plaintiff’s own complaint allegations are confirmation of consent.  Plaintiff is standing on the contract, which
includes an arbitration provision.  “[U]nder
equitable estoppel principles and in appropriate factual circumstances, a
signatory to a[n] agreement containing an arbitration clause may be compelled
to arbitrate its claims against a nonsignatory when the relevant causes of
action rely on and presume the existence of the contract.”  (Boucher v. Alliance Title Co. Inc.
(2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 262, 269; see also Rowe v. Exline (2007)
153 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1287 (plaintiff’s claims against nonsignatory
directors who were sued as alter egos of corporation were subject to
arbitration based on arbitration provision contained in plaintiff’s agreement
with corporation; plaintiff could not sue directors as alter egos of
corporation then at the same time disclaim their right to compel arbitration
pursuant to arbitration agreement with corporation.)  
            Moreover,
the arbitration provision also states in bolded, all caps that, “BY ACCEPTING
BENEFITS UNDER THIS WARRANTY, INCLUDING HAVING ANY REPAIRS PERFORMED UNDER
WARRANTY, YOU AGREE TO BE BOUND BY THESE TERMS.”  (Willette Dec., Ex. B, p. 14.)  Plaintiff alleges that the defects were
covered by the warranty, and she presented the vehicle to Defendant for repair
a reasonable number of times per the warranty. 
(Complaint, ¶¶14-15.)  
            Plaintiff
argues that a warranty agreement does not create obligations on the buyer, only
the seller.  Plaintiff argues that in Norcia
v. Samsung Telecommunications Am., LLC (9th Cir. 2017), 845 F.3d
1279, 1284, based under similar facts, a warranty booklet that contained an
arbitration provision was deemed unenforceable for lack of consent.  Norcia is distinguishable.          Norcia
did not discuss the applicability of equitable estoppel.  Significantly, the plaintiff in Norcia
did not bring any claims for breach of warranty.  (Id. at 1283.)  Plaintiff in Norcia was therefore not
attempting to sue on the warranty agreement, while also disclaiming the enforceability
of the arbitration provision contained within the warranty agreement.  There was therefore no occasion to discuss
equitable estoppel.  
            The
arbitration provision discussed in Norcia was also distinguishable from
the arbitration agreement presented here. 
Unlike Defendant’s arbitration agreement, the arbitration agreement in Norcia
did not make warranty benefits contingent upon agreement to the arbitration
agreement, nor did it state that acceptance of the warranty benefits was an
agreement to be bound by the arbitration provision.  (Norcia, supra, 845 F.3d at
1282.)  
            Under
the Warranty Booklet’s arbitration agreement, Plaintiff’s presentation of the
vehicle to Defendant multiple times for repair was a manifestation of assent to
the arbitration agreement.  Defendant is
not relying solely on the Plaintiff’s failure to opt out of the arbitration
provision, unlike the defendant in Norcia.  
            Defendant
establishes the existence of an appliable arbitration agreement.  
            Plaintiff fails to
establish that the arbitration agreement is unconscionable
            “[G]enerally
applicable contract defenses, such as ... unconscionability, may be applied to
invalidate arbitration agreements without contravening” the FAA’ or California
law. (Pinnacle Museum Tower Assn. v. Pinnacle Market Development (US), LLC
(2012) 55 Cal.4th 223, 246.) “The party opposing arbitration has the burden of
proving the arbitration provision is unconscionable.” (Szetela v. Discover
Bank (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1099.) 
            “The
prevailing view is that procedural and substantive unconscionability must both
be present in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce
a contract or clause under the doctrine of unconscionability.  But they need not be present in the same
degree. Essentially a sliding scale is invoked which disregards the regularity
of the procedural process of the contract formation, that creates the terms, in
proportion to the greater harshness or unreasonableness of the substantive
terms themselves.  In other words, the
more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of
procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the
term is unenforceable, and vice versa.”  (Baltazar
v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1243–1244 (quoting Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114).)
            “The
procedural element addresses the circumstances of contract negotiation and
formation, focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal bargaining
power.  Oppression occurs where a
contract involves lack of negotiation and meaningful choice, surprise where the
allegedly unconscionable provision is hidden within a prolix printed form.  When the contract is a contract of adhesion
imposed and drafted by the party with superior bargaining power, the adhesive
nature of the contract is evidence of some degree of procedural
unconscionability. However, the fact that an agreement is adhesive is not,
alone, sufficient to render it unconscionable.” 
(Malone v. Superior Court (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1551, 1561.)
            “The
term contract of adhesion signifies a standardized contract, which, imposed and
drafted by the party of superior bargaining strength, relegates to the
subscribing party only the opportunity to adhere to the contract or reject it.”  (Armendariz, supra, 24 Cal.4th
at 113.)  Thus, a form agreement
presented on a preprinted form and offered on a take-it-or-leave-it-basis would
render it a contract of adhesion.  (Baltazar,
supra, 62 Cal.4th at 1245.)  Where
a contract of adhesion is presented but there is no element of surprise or
oppression, the Court must be “particularly attuned” to a claim of
unconscionability, but the agreement is “not subject[ed] to the same degree of
scrutiny as contracts of adhesion that involve surprise or other sharp
practices.”  (Id.)  
            “The
circumstances relevant to establishing oppression include, but are not limited
to (1) the amount of time the party is given to consider the proposed contract;
(2) the amount and type of pressure exerted on the party to sign the proposed
contract; (3) the length of the proposed contract and the length and complexity
of the challenged provision; (4) the education and experience of the party; and
(5) whether the party's review of the proposed contract was aided by an
attorney.”  (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019)
8 Cal.5th 111, 126.) 
            “Substantive
unconscionability arises when a contract imposes unduly harsh, oppressive, or
one-sided terms.¿(Armendariz, supra,¿24 Cal.4th at p. 113 (provision
in adhesion contract will not be enforced if it “does not fall within the
reasonable expectations of the weaker or adhering party or if, in context, it
is unduly oppressive or unconscionable); Ajamian, supra, 203
Cal.App.4th at p. 797)  “The substantive
unconscionability of an arbitration agreement is viewed in the context of the
rights and remedies that otherwise would have been available to the parties.” (OTO,
supra, 8 Cal.5th at p. 137.)
            Plaintiff
fails to establish that the arbitration agreement is unconscionable.  The procedural unconscionability is
moderate.  The arbitration agreement in
the Warranty Booklet is a form agreement. 
However, it was not presented on a take or leave it basis, as it allows
the purchaser to opt-out of the arbitration provision within 30 days.  (Willette Dec., Ex. B, p. 14.) 
            Moreover,
the arbitration provision is not “buried.” 
The Table of Contents located on page 3 of the Warranty Booklet
identifies in all caps, “BINDING ARBITRAITON FOR CALIFORNIA VEHICLES ONLY,
13.”  On page 13, the arbitration
provision is not hidden and is in regular font, preceded by a heading and
warning in all caps stating, “BINDING ARBITRATION FOR CALIFORNIA VEHICLES ONLY…PLEASE
READ THIS SECTION IN ITS ENTIRETY AS IT AFFECTS YOUR RIGHTS.”  Then, at the end of the section, in bolded,
capital letters is a statement informing  the purchaser, “YOUR WARRANTY IS MADE SUBJECT
TO THE TERMS OF THIS BINDING ARBITRATION PROVISION, BY ACCEPTING BENEFITS UNDER
THIS WARRANTY, INCLUDING HAVING ANY REPAIRS PERFORMED UNDER WARRANTY, YOU AGREE
TO BE BOUND BY THESE TERMS.  IF YOU DO
NOT AGREE WITH THESE TERMS, PLESE CONTACT US…WITHIN THIRTY DAYS OF YOUR
PURCHASE OR LEASE TO OPT-OUT OF THIS ARBITRATION PROVISION.”  (Willette Dec., Ex. B, p. 14.) 
            Plaintiff
fails to identify any substantive unconscionability.  There are no terms that are one sided or
unduly harsh.  Plaintiff and Hyundai are
entitled to compel arbitration.  (Id.
at p. 13.)  Hyundai is responsible for
payment of all JAMS fees except the initial filing fee.  (Id. at p. 13.)  The arbitration was to be held in the city or
county of Plaintiff’s residence.  (Id.). 
Plaintiff’s only argument in favor of substantive unconscionability is
that his Song Beverly rights are unwaivable. 
Plaintiff, however, fails to identify any aspect of the arbitration
agreement or proposed arbitration agreement that would amount to a waiver of Plaintiff’s
Song Beverly rights or an impediment thereto.
            Plaintiff
fails to establish any grounds to find the arbitration agreement unenforceable.
            Defendant’s request
to arbitrate under the Sale Contract is therefore moot[1]
            Defendant’s request to
compel arbitration pursuant to the arbitration agreement contained in the
Warranty Booklet is granted.  Defendant’s
alternative request that the Court compel arbitration pursuant to arbitration
agreement contained in the Sale Contract is therefore moot.  
ORDER
            Defendant’s Motion to Compel
Arbitration is GRANTED.  
            Moving
party is ordered to give notice of ruling.


