 Case Number:  22STCV37832    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  29 Portillo v. Kogan
22STCV37832
Defendant’s Motion to Continue Trial
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background 
On December 5, 2022,
Stephany Marie Portillo (“Plaintiff”) filed the complaint in this action
against Eugene Kogan (“Defendant”) and Does 1 through 50, asserting a cause of
action for negligence arising out of a vehicle accident on December 8, 2020, at
or near the intersection of Fairfax Avenue and Farmers Market Place in Los
Angeles.
Defendant filed an answer
on November 13, 2023.
On August 14, 2024, Defendant filed this
motion to continue the date of trial. 
Plaintiff filed an Opposition on August 27, and Defendant filed a Reply
on September 3.
On filing,
the case was assigned a trial date of June 3, 2024.  On the stipulation of the parties in April 2024,
the Court continued the trial to the current date, October 3, 2024.
Legal
Standard
Code of Civil
Procedure section 128, subdivision (a)(8), provides that the court has the
power to amend and control its process and orders so as to make them conform to
law and justice. “The power to determine when a continuance should be granted
is within the discretion of the trial court.” (Color-Vue, Inc. v. Abrams
(1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1603.) “A trial court has wide latitude in the
matter of calendar control including the granting or denying of continuances.”
(Park Motors, Inc. v. Cozens (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 12, 18.)  
“To ensure the
prompt disposition of civil cases, the dates assigned for trial are firm.  All parties and their counsel must regard the
date set for trial as certain.”  (Cal. Rules
of Court, rule 3.1332(a).)
“Although
continuances of trials are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be
considered on its own merits.”  (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  “The
court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause
requiring the continuance.”  (Ibid.)
 Circumstances that may support a finding
of good cause include:  
“(1) The unavailability of an
essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
(2) The unavailability of a party
because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(3) The unavailability of trial
counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable circumstances;  
(4) The substitution of trial
counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing that the substitution
is required in the interests of justice; 

(5) The addition of a new party if:
(A) The new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and
prepare for trial; or (B) The other parties have not had a reasonable
opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare for trial in regard to the new
party's involvement in the case;  
(6) A party's excused inability to
obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material evidence despite
diligent efforts; or  
(7) A significant, unanticipated
change in the status of the case as a result of which the case is not ready for
trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  
“In ruling on a
motion or application for continuance, the court must consider all the facts
and circumstances that are relevant to the determination.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d).)  California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(d)
sets forth a non-exhaustive list of factors that the court may consider:  
“(1) The proximity of the trial
date;  
(2) Whether there was any previous
continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;  
(3) The length of the continuance
requested;  
(4) The availability of alternative
means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or application for a
continuance;  
(5) The prejudice that parties or
witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
(6) If the case is entitled to a
preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The court's calendar and the impact
of granting a continuance on other pending trials; 
(8) Whether trial counsel is engaged
in another trial;  
(9) Whether all parties have
stipulated to a continuance;  
(10) Whether the interests of justice
are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing
conditions on the continuance; and  
(11) Any other fact or circumstance
relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.”  
(Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1332(d).) 
Discussion
Defendant Kogan moves to continue the trial date to
December 2, 2024.  Defendant argues that
there is good cause to continue the trial date, as additional nonparty fact
discovery and expert discovery must be completed.  Plaintiff opposes the motion, saying that the
discovery could and should have been completed earlier, and that any further
continuance of the trial would be prejudicial.
The Court has carefully considered the
evidence and argument presented by both sides. 
The Court finds that Defendant has shown good cause for the requested
continuance.  Defendant appeared in this
case approximately 10 months ago and has been reasonably diligent in pursuing
discovery.  The discovery that remains to
be completed appears directly relevant to Plaintiff’s claims as to liability
and damages.  The requested continuance
is brief and reasonably balances the need to complete the outstanding discovery
and the important goal of resolving cases in a prompt manner.  The prejudice to Plaintiff associated with a
further, short continuance is outweighed by the prejudice that Defendant would
suffer from not being able to complete the discovery in this matter.
Accordingly, the motion is granted.  
Conclusion
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s
motion to continue trial.
The Court ADVANCES and CONTINUES
the trial to a date on or after December 2, 2024.  The Final Status Conference and all deadlines
are reset based on the new trial date.
Moving party is ordered to
give notice.