 Case Number:  22STCV29201    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  29 Franks v. City of Los Angeles22STCV29201Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, for Summary Adjudication Filed by Defendant Thrifty Tree Service TentativeThe motion is denied.Background On September 8, 2022, Plaintiffs Maureen Franks, Kevin Franks, Madeline Franks, and Rebecca Franks (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed the complaint in this action against Defendants City of Los Angeles (“City”), County of Los Angeles (“County”), Thrifty Tree Service, Inc. (“Thrifty”), the Davey Tree Expert Company (“Davey”), and Does 1 through 100, alleging causes of action for: (1) Dangerous Condition of Public Property (against City and County); (2) Negligence (against Thrifty); and (3) Negligence against Davey.  In the complaint, Plaintiffs allege that Dennis Franks (“Decedent”) was killed on November 28, 2021, when a large ancient Oak Tree collapsed on to the Franks’ home on Odessa Avenue in Encino.On October 28, 2022, State Farm General Insurance Company (“State Farm”) filed a complaint in Case No.. 22VECV01767) against City, County, Thrifty, Davey, and Does 1 through 10 asserting the same causes of action against each of the defendants.The two cases were subsequently related and consolidated.On November 15, 2022, Thrifty filed an answer to Plaintiffs’ complaint and a cross-complaint against Roes 1 through 10. The same day, Plaintiffs filed a request for a dismissal of their causes of action against County.On November 18, 2022, Davey filed an answer to Plaintiffs’ complaint.On December 2, 2022, City filed an answer to Plaintiffs’ complaint and cross-complaint against Thrifty and Roes 1 through 10.On January 20, 2023, Thrifty filed an answer to City’s cross-complaint.On February 24, 2023, Thrifty filed an answer to State Farm’s complaint.On March 8, 2023, City and Davey each filed an answer to State Farm’s complaint.On March 17, 2023, Thrifty amended its cross-complaint to name City as Roe 1.On April 17, 2023, City filed an answer to Thrifty’s cross-complaint.On June 1, 2023, Plaintiffs amended their complaint to name Davey Resource Group, Inc. as Doe 31.On July 17, 2023, Davey Resource Group, Inc. filed an answer to Plaintiffs’ complaint.On March 21, 2024, Thrifty filed this motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, for summary adjudication as to Plaintiffs’ complaint.Plaintiffs filed an opposition on July 16, 2024.State Farm filed a notice of joinder to the opposition on July 17, 2024.Plaintiffs filed objections to some of Thrifty’s evidence on July 24.Thrifty filed a reply, along with objections to some of Plaintiffs’ evidence, on July 25.On July 26, Plaintiffs filed an objection to Thrifty’s additional evidence on reply.The hearing was initially set for July 29, 2024.  In the aftermath of the cyber attack on the Los Angeles Superior Court the hearing was continued to September 11, 2024.The Court is also aware that on April 24, 2024, Davey and Davey Resource Group, Inc. filed a motion for summary judgment that is scheduled to be heard on December 5, 2024.Legal Standard“The purpose of the law of summary judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.” (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.)As to each cause of action as framed by the complaint, a defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to show “that one or more elements of the cause of action ... cannot be established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851; Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see also Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 850-851.)A plaintiff or cross-complainant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to show “that there is no defense to a cause of action if that party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party to judgment on the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) Once the plaintiff or cross-complainant has met that burden, the burden shift to the defendant or cross-defendant to show that a “triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)The party opposing a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication may not simply “rely upon the allegations or denials of its pleadings” but must instead “set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material fact exists.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subds. (p)(1) & (p)(2). To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)Objections to EvidenceEach party objects to some of the evidence submitted by the other. Evidence presented in support of, or in opposition to, a motion for summary judgment must be admissible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (d); Perry v. Bakewell Hawthorne LLC (2017) 2 Cal.5th 536, 541-43.) The court must “consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers, except the evidence to which objections have been made and sustained.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)Plaintiff objects to Exhibits C and D attached to the declaration of Thrifty’s counsel (Jonathan Termechi) filed with the moving papers.  Those exhibits are Thrifty’s own discovery responses, which in any event are not verified.  The Court SUSTAINS these objections.Plaintiff also objects to the three exhibits attached to the declaration of Thrifty’s counsel filed with the reply papers.  Those exhibits are excerpts from the deposition of Thrifty’s witness Dave Aviram (Exhibit L), a document produced by Plaintiffs in discovery entitled Tree Report, prepared by James Dean (Exhibit M), and excerpts from the deposition of Plaintiff Maureen Franks (Exhibit N).  Although normally it is improper for a party for summary judgment to introduce new evidence with its reply, the Court OVERRULES these objections: Exhibit L provides context for the excerpts from the same deposition submitted by Plaintiffs, and Exhibits M and N reflect what appears to be an attempt to argue that the declaration of Ms. Franks is inconsistent with her deposition testimony.Thrifty objects to 1 passage in the declaration of Plaintiff Maureen Franks, 12 passages in the declaration of Brent Carpenter, and 39 passages in the declaration of expert witness Kay Greeley. The Court notes Thrifty fails to follow California Rules of Court, rule 3.1354, as the objections to the declarations of Key Greeley and Brent Carpenter are unnumbered, which is unhelpful.Thrifty’s objection to paragraph 3 of the declaration of Plaintiff Maureen Franks is OVERRULED.Thrifty’s 12 objections to the declaration of Brent Carpenter are OVERRULED.Thrifty’s 39 objections to the declaration of expert witness Kay Greeley are OVERRULED.  The Court finds that Ms. Greeley Avritt has appropriate credentials and her testimony relates to a subject that is sufficiently beyond common experience that the opinion of an expert witness would assist the trier of act; is based on information of the type on which an expert may reasonably rely; is based on reasons supported by the information on which the expert relies; and is not speculative. (Evid. Code, §§ 801-802; Sargon Enterprises v. USC (2012) 55 Cal.4th 747, 771-21.)  To the extent that Ms. Greeley is summarizing the evidence in the record, the Court will rely on its own review of the evidence, not Ms. Greeley’s summaries.DiscussionThe facts relating to the accident in this matter are largely undisputed, at least for purposes of this motion.  On the night of November 28, 2021, Decedent Dennis Franks was in an upstairs bedroom of his home.  (Defendant’s Statement of Undisputed Material Facts [“DSUMF”], No. 13.)  At approximately 11:15 pm, a large Oak tree (the “Oak Tree”) fell on to the home, killing Decedent and damaging the home.  (DSUMF, No. 14.)Plaintiffs contend that six years before the accident, in 2015, Thrifty undertook to assess, inspect, and do what was necessary to maintain, service, and support the Oak Tree.  (DSUMF, No. 17.)  According to Plaintiffs, Thrifty acted negligently in performing its work and/or in failing to perform other necessary work, resulting in the tragic events of November 2021.  (DSUMF, No. 18.)In their complaint, Plaintiffs assert one cause of action against Thrifty for negligence.  (Complaint, ¶¶ 26-32.)  The basic elements of a cause of action for negligence are: (1) the existence of a legal duty; (2) breach of that duty; (3) causation; and (4) resulting damages. (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 213; Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158; Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.) The existence and scope of duty are legal questions for the court.¿¿(Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 213; Annocki¿v. Peterson Enterprises, LLC¿(2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 32, 36.)Thrifty now moves for summary judgment or, in the alternative, for summary adjudication.  Thrifty argues that it is entitled to judgment as a matter of law for three reasons: (1) Thrifty owed no duty to Plaintiffs; (2) Plaintiffs’ contention regarding any breach of duty by Thrifty are barred, as a matter of law, by the “Completed and Accepted” doctrine; and (3) no act or omission of Thrifty was the cause of Plaintiffs’ injuries.  The Court considers each in turn.Duty of CareIn general, a duty of care arises from a statute, a contract, or a “special relationship between the parties.” (Lake Almanor Assocs. L.P. v. Huffman-Broadway Group, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 1194, 1205.)  Civil Code section 1714 provides: “Everyone is responsible, not only for the result of his or her willful acts, but also for an injury occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management of his or her property or person, except so far as the latter has, willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or herself.” (Civ. Code, § 1714, subd. (a).) This establishes what the California Supreme Court has described as the “default rule” that every person has a legal duty “to exercise, in his or her activities, reasonable care for the safety of others.” (Brown, supra, 11 Cal.5th at p. 214.)“In a contract for services, a contracting party may be liable for negligence in the performance of those services or failure to perform.” (Bevis v. Terrace View Partners, LP (2019) 33 Cal.App.5th 230, 258.)Thrifty’s argument about duty is straightforward: Thrifty argues that it was hired to remove some dead, diseased, or damaged limbs on the Oak Tree and to cable certain other limbs; it did the work that it was hired to perform; and Thrifty was never hired to do anything else – including to provide professional advice as an arborist about tree safety in general or specifically about the safety or health of the Oak Tree at issue.  (See Mem., at 5-7; DSUMF, Nos. 1-2, 6, 9 & supporting evidence.)The evidence in the record on this point, however, is disputed.  Decedent and his wife, Plaintiff Maureen Franks, asked a friend, Brent Carpenter, for advice and assistance with the work on the Oak Tree.  (DSUMF, No. 3; Plaintiff’s Statement of Additional Material Facts [“PSAMF”], Nos. 20-23; Carpenter Decl., ¶¶ 3-6.)  Mr. Carpenter was award that the Oak Tree was a protected tree under City ordinances and recommended Mr. Aviram, the owner of Thrifty, as Mr. Carpenter understood that Mr. Aviram was an expert arborist.  (PSAMF, No. 24; Carpenter Decl., ¶ 7.)  Mr. Carpenter not only recommended Thrifty but also handled some of the communication with Thrifty on behalf of the Franks.  (PSAMF, Nos. 25-26; Carpenter Decl., ¶¶ 8-18.)According to Mr. Carpenter, Dave Aviram, the owner of Thrifty, met with him and Decedent, and Mr. Aviram handed Mr. Carpenter a business card in which Mr. Aviram represented that he was a certified arborist with ISA (International Society of Arboriculture).  (PSAMF, No. 25; Carpenter Decl., ¶ 8 & Exh. 1.)  Mr. Aviram recommended removing the dead, diseased, or damaged limbs of the Oak Tree and cabling other limbs.  (Carpenter Decl., ¶¶ 9, 13.)  Mr. Aviram did not warn of risks associated with using a cable support system and did not recommend removing the tree.  (Id., ¶¶ 11-12.)  Mr. Aviram did not tell Mr. Carpenter that it was “only a matter of time until the oak tree falls.”  (Id., ¶ 12.)  Either at the meeting or shortly thereafter, Mr. Aviram provided additional materials to Mr. Carpenter, including copies of his professional qualifications as a Certified Arborist by ISA.  (PSAMF, No. 34; Carpenter Decl., ¶ 17 & Exh. 3.)  Mr. Carpenter provided these materials to Decedent.  (PSAMF, No. 35; Carpenter Decl., ¶ 18.)Mr. Carpenter testifies, “At no time did Mr. Aviram say that he was not acting as a professional certified arborist and if he had done so, I would have told [Decedent] to not hire him for the job.”  (Carpenter Decl., ¶ 11.)Plaintiffs also present the declaration of expert witness Kay Greeley, a Board-Certified Master Arborist and Tree Risk Assessment qualified by ISA.  (Greeley Decl., ¶ 1 & Exh. A.)  Ms. Greeley testifies that certified arborists are obligated to follow certain professional standards and industry standards in providing services to the customers, that Mr. Aviram was or held himself out to be a certified arborist, and that Mr. Aviram failed to meet those standards.  (Id., ¶¶ 19-20.)  Among his failures, Ms. Greeley states, was the failure to Mr. Aviram to recognize the likelihood that the Oak Tree had a compromised root system and a hollowed out or rotten trunk.  (Id., ¶ 21.) Ms. Greeley opines that Mr. Aviram failed to meet the professional standards of care by, among other things: (1) proposing to cable the tree, rather than recommending removal of the tree or a full tree risk assessment by the homeowner or the City; (2) not conducting an adequate investigation of the tree before installing the cabling to ensure that the support system would not increase the risk of tree failure; and (3) failing to disclose sufficient information in writing to Decedent and Mr. Carpenter so that they could make an informed decision regarding the care of the tree.  (Id., ¶¶ 21-26.) Thrifty argues that the Court should disregard both of these declarations.  The Court has considered and overruled Thrifty’s objections to the declarations, however.  Moreover, the Court has reviewed the discovery responses and deposition testimony in the record and finds that Mr. Carpenter’s declaration does not contradict those responses and testimony.  To the contrary, Plaintiffs disclosed Mr. Carpenter’s role in the process of retaining and working with Thrifty.  (See Termechi Decl., Exhs. E, G, J.)  And Thrifty’s criticisms of the expert opinion testimony of Mr. Greeley go to the weight to be given to her opinions, not their admissibility.On this record, there are disputed issues of fact that must be resolved by the trier of fact regarding what expertise Thrifty and its owner held themselves out to have and what advice they gave (or failed to give).  Viewing the evidence in the light most favorable to the non-moving parties, and drawing all reasonable inferences in their favor, a finder of fact could conclude that Thrifty and its owner held themselves out to be expert arborists, that they failed to meet those professional standards, and that if they had met those standards, the Oak Tree would have been removed before the accident.The Court expresses no views on whether Plaintiffs’ evidence is strong or weak. In ruling on a motion for summary judgment, it is not the role of the Court to weigh the evidence. It is sufficient, to purposes of this motion, for the Court to rule that there is sufficient evidence in the record, combined with drawing all of the reasonable inferences in favor of the nonmoving party, that would support a finding that Thrifty owed and breached its duty to Plaintiffs and that the breach was a proximate cause of the loss.Thrifty argues Plaintiff cannot establish that Thrifty owed it a duty at the time of the incident; Plaintiff’s only claim for duty would arise from a contract in which it hired Thrifty related to the maintenance of the Oak Tree.The “Completed and Accepted” DoctrineNext, and independently, Thrifty argues that the “Competed and Accepted” doctrine bars, as a matter of law, any claim against it for breach of duty.  As the Court of Appeal has explained:“[W]hen a contractor completes work that is accepted by the owner, the contractor is not liable to third parties injured as a result of the condition of the work, even if the contractor was negligent in performing the contract, unless the defect in the work was latent or concealed.  [Citation.]  The rationale for this doctrine is that an owner has a duty to inspect the work and ascertain its safety, and thus the owner’s acceptance of the work shifts liability for its safety to the owner, provided that a reasonable inspection would disclose the defect.” (Jones v. P.S. Development Co., Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 707, 712, disapproved on other grounds in Reid v. Google, Inc. (2010) 50 Cal.4th 512.) “If an owner, fulfilling the duty of inspection, cannot discover the defect, then the owner cannot effectively represent to the world that the construction is sufficient; he lacks adequate information to do so.” (Sanchez v. Swinerton & Walberg Co. (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 1461, 1467.) “A “latent” defect is one that is “not apparent by reasonable inspection.” (Creekridge Townhome Owners Assn., Inc. v. C. Scott Whitten, Inc. (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 251, 257.)On this record, the Court cannot resolve this issue in favor of Thrifty as a matter of law.  There is, at the least, a question of fact regarding whether the allegedly defective work of Thrifty was patent or latent.  A non-expert homeowner cannot reasonably be expected, even upon a thorough inspection, to ascertain the risk of tree failure that (Plaintiffs allege) Thrifty failed to disclose and address. (See Greeley Decl., ¶¶ 21-26.)  There are disputed issues of fact present in the record that must be addressed through trial.CausationFinally, and also independently, Thrifty argues that even if it breached any breach of a duty of care, that breach was not a proximate cause of Plaintiffs’ losses.   “In order for a plaintiff to satisfy the causation element of a negligence cause of action, he or she must show the defendant's act or omission was a substantial factor in bringing about the plaintiff's harm. In other words, [the] plaintiff must show some substantial link or nexus between omission and injury.  The causation inquiry thus focuses on the nexus between the defendant's conduct and the plaintiff's harm.”(Union Pacific Railroad Co. v. Ameron Pole Products LLC (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 974, 981–982 [citations omitted].)Causation is ordinarily an issue of act for trial, unless the evidence in the record is so one-sided that only one inference is reasonable. Here, there are disputed issues of fact that preclude a ruling on causation as a matter of law.  Plaintiffs’ expert witness Kay Greeley testifies that had Thrifty acted in a manner consistent with professional standards, it would have recommended removal of the Oak Tree.  (Greeley Decl., ¶ 21.) Greeley opines further that Mr. Aviram failed to be candid with both Plaintiffs and the City in discussing options for the Oak Tree, which deprived them of the opportunity to make an informed decision about removal of the Oak Tree.  (Id., ¶¶ 25-29.)  Had Mr. Aviram met these professional standards, Ms. Greeley testifies, the Oak Tree would likely have been removed in 2015, years before the accident that killed Decedent.  (Id., ¶ 21.)  And this is confirmed in the declaration of Ms. Maureen Franks, in which she testifies that if Mr. Aviram or another certified arborist, had suggested the Oak Tree needed to be removed because it was at risk of falling, she would have “immediately requested that the City of Los Angeles remove the subject oak tree, or taken all necessary action to do so.”  (Franks Decl., ¶ 3.) Accordingly, the record does not support Thrifty’s contention that, as a matter of law, Plaintiffs cannot establish proximate causation.Thrifty’s Request for ContinuanceNear the end of its reply brief, Thrifty argues in a single paragraph that it should be permitted a brief continuance of the hearing on this motion so that it may depose Ms. Greeley.  Citing St. Mary Medical Center v. Superior Court (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1531, 1540, Thrifty argues that there is a “legitimate question regarding the foundation of the opinion of the expert.”But Thrifty does not explain what is the “legitimate question” regarding the “foundation” of Ms. Greeley’s expert opinion.  The Court understands that Thrifty disagrees with her opinions, and perhaps the trier of fact will agree with Thrifty on that point, but mere disagreement with an expert’s opinion is not a basis for a continuance under the cited authority.Thrifty’s request for a continuance is denied.ConclusionThe Court DENIES Thrifty’s motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, for summary adjudication.Moving Party to give notice.