 Case Number:  23STCV15609    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  29 Delgadillo v. Berrera
23STCV15609
Defendants’ Motion for Leave to File Cross-Complaint
Tentative
The motion is granted.
Background
On July 5, 2023, Alonso Delgadillo (“Plaintiff”)
filed a complaint against Francisco Berrera, Maria Berrera, Yocelyne
Barrera-Baltazar (collectively “Defendants”), and Does 1 through 10, asserting
causes of action for (1) statutory liability under Civil Code section 3342 and
(2) negligence/premises liability, arising out of a dog bite incident occurring
on August 5, 2021.
Defendants filed an answer on December 12, 2023.
On April 17, 2024, Defendants filed this motion
for leave to file a cross-complaint. No opposition has been filed. The hearing
was continued, on the Court’s own motion, from July 3 to August 7.  On August 7, the hearing was continued to
allow moving party to cure a procedural defect in the moving papers.
On April 19, 2024, Plaintiff amended the
complaint to name Jerry Renteria as Doe 1.
Legal Standard
The Code of Civil Procedure distinguishes
between compulsory and permissive cross-complaints. 
A compulsory cross-complaint, under Code of
Civil Procedure section 426.30, is one that asserts (1) a “related cause of
action”; (2) that a party against whom a “complaint” has been filed and served
has against the “plaintiff”; and (3) that exists as of the time the answer to
the “complaint” is served.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).) 
As used in section 426.30, a “related cause of
action” is defined as “a cause of action which arises out of the same
transaction, occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause
of action which the plaintiff alleges in his complaint.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.10, subd. (c).)  “Complaint” is defined to include a
cross-complaint, and “Plaintiff” is defined as “a person who files a complaint
or cross-complaint.”  (Id., subds. (a) & (b).) 
Subject to the exceptions set forth by statute,
if a party fails to assert fails to assert a related cause of action against
the plaintiff that exists as of the time the party answers the complaint, “such
party may not thereafter in any other action assert against the plaintiff the
related cause of action not pleaded.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 426.30, subd.
(a).)
A permissive cross-complaint, in contrast, may
include a much broader group of pleadings.  Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 428.10, in a permissive cross-complaint a party may assert an unrelated
cause of action “against any of the parties who filed the complaint or
cross-complaint against him.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 428.10, subd.
(a).)  Alternatively, in a permissive cross-complaint a party may assert a
“cause of action he has against a person alleged to be liable thereon, whether
or not such a person is already party to the action, if the cause of action
asserted in his cross-complaint (1) arises out of the same transaction,
occurrence, or series of transactions or occurrences as the cause brought
against him or (2) asserts a claim, right, or interest in the property or
controversy which is the subject of the cause brought against him.” (Id.,
subd. (b).)  Cross-complaints for contribution or indemnity against new
parties fall within the definition of a permissive cross-complaint in section
428.10.
A party must file a compulsory cross-complaint
at the same time as (or before) the answer to the complaint.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.30, subd. (a).)  If a party fails to do so, and then later on
seeks leave to file the cross-complaint, the court “after notice to the adverse
party, shall grant, upon such terms as may be just to the parties, leave to
amend the pleading, or to file the cross-complaint, to assert such cause if the
party who failed to plead the cause acted in good faith.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 426.50.)  The “good faith” standard must “be liberally
construed to avoid forfeiture of causes of action.”  (Ibid.)
A party must file a permissive cross-complaint
before the court has set a date for trial, or, if the causes of action in the
cross-complaint are asserted against “any of the parties who filed the
complaint or cross-complaint against him or her,” at or before the party files
the answer to the complaint or cross-complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
428.50, subds. (a) & (b).)  If a party fails to do so, and then later
on seeks leave to file the cross-complaint, the court may grant leave “in the
interests of justice.” (Id., subd. (c).)
Cross-complaints against a person or entity that
is not already a party in the action are always permissive, rather than
compulsory. (Insurance Co. of North America v. Liberty Mutual Ins. Co. (1982)
128 Cal.App.3d 297, 303; 1 Weil & Brown, California Practice Guide: Civil
Procedure Before Trial [The Rutter Group 2024], ¶ 6:524.)
Discussion
Defendants now seek to file a permissive
cross-complaint against the proposed Cross-Defendant, Jerry Renteria. Defendants
contend the dog in question was gifted to Mr. Renteria before the dog bit Plaintiff,
and as such, liability is disputed.
It is clear that this cross-complaint arises
out of the same set of facts as Plaintiff’s complaint, as Defendants contend
the proposed Cross-Defendant was the owner of the dog on the day it bit
Plaintiff.
Defendants in their amended declaration
attach a copy of the proposed cross-complaint. 
The Court finds that it is in the interest of
justice for Defendants to be granted leave to file their cross-complaint. 
Therefore, the motion is granted.
Conclusion
 
The Court GRANTS Defendants’ motion for leave to file
its cross-complaint. 
 
The
Court GRANTS Defendants LEAVE to file the cross-complaint attached to counsel’s
declaration filed August 15, 2024, within 14 days of the hearing.
 
Moving
Party to give notice.