

 
BACKGROUND
 
On December
22, 2022, Plaintiff The Sherwin-Williams Company (“Plaintiff”)
filed a Complaint against Defendant Anthony Sanchez dba Color Custom Painting (“Defendant”)
and DOES 1 through 100, inclusive for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Goods Sold and
Delivered/Agreed Price; (3) Open-Book Account; (4) Account Stated; (5) Breach of
Contract; (6) Goods Sold and Delivered/Agreed Price; (7) Open-Book Account; and
(8) Account Stated. 
 
On November
6, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings. The motion was
granted on February 8, 2024. 
 
On March
21, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to be Deemed Prevailing Party
Against Defendant and for an Award for Attorney’s Fees. The opposition was due
on April 23, 2024, and none has been filed as of May 1, 2024. 
 
 
MOVING PARTY
POSITION
 
            Plaintiff
moves for an order to be deemed prevailing party against Defendant and award of
attorney’s fees pursuant to the contractual provisions in the Commercial Credit
Agreement in the amount of $4,365.00 plus $1,100.00 if a reply to opposition
and an appearance is needed plus costs in the sum of $423.76 pursuant to the
Memorandum of Costs previously filed with the Court. Plaintiff argues this
Court granted its Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings against defendant and
entered judgment in its favor in the principal amount of $4,683.48 plus
interest of $938.33. Plaintiff further contends the attorney’s fees incurred
were reasonable. Finally, Plaintiff contends it is entitled to “fees on fees”
for having to bring the instant motion. 
 
 
OPPOSITION
 
None filed as of 5/1/24.
 
REPLY
 
None filed as of 5/1/24.
 
ANALYSIS
 
 
I. Motion to be Deemed Prevailing Party and for
Attorney’s Fees 
A.   
Legal Standard
Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure section 1032, subdivision (a)(4), a “‘[p]revailing
party’ includes the party with a net monetary recovery, a defendant in whose
favor a dismissal is entered, a defendant where neither plaintiff nor defendant
obtains any relief, and a defendant as against those plaintiffs who do not
recover any relief against that defendant. If any party recovers other than
monetary relief and in situations other than as specified, the “prevailing
party” shall be as determined by the court, and under those circumstances, the
court, in its discretion, may allow costs or not and, if allowed, may apportion
costs between the parties on the same or adverse sides pursuant to rules
adopted under Section 1034.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (a)(4).)
“In any
action on a contract, where the contract specifically provides that attorney’s
fees and costs, which are incurred to enforce that contract, shall be awarded either
to one of the parties or to the prevailing party, then the party who is
determined to be the party prevailing on the contract, whether he or she is the
party specified in the contract or not, shall be entitled to reasonable
attorney’s fees in addition to other costs.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1717, subd.
(a).)
B.  Discussion
Here, Plaintiff contends it is the
prevailing party with respect to the Complaint because its Motion for Judgment
on the Pleadings was granted and judgment was entered against Defendant.
(Doremus Decl. ¶¶ 6-7, Ex. 2.) Furthermore, Plaintiff asserts the terms of the
subject Commercial Credit Agreement provide for recovery of attorney’s fees and
costs incurred in enforcing the provisions of the agreement. (Id. at ¶¶
3-4, Ex. 1.) As such, Plaintiff contends it is entitled to recover its
attorney’s fees. Moreover, Plaintiff argues the attorney’s fees incurred are
reasonable because they were incurred to achieve the favorable results obtained
in this matter; billing rates are low compared to comparable lawyers in the Los
Angeles County community and for matters of this nature; and the time spent for
these matters was reasonable. Lastly, Plaintiff asserts it is entitled to “fees
on fees” for having to bring this motion. 
The Court finds that Plaintiff was the
prevailing party in this action as its Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings was
granted against Defendant and a monetary judgment was entered in Plaintiff’s
favor against Defendant. Furthermore, Plaintiff has demonstrated that it is entitled
to attorney’s fees under the Commercial Credit Agreement. Moreover, Plaintiff
has provided its client ledger from its counsel of record showcasing the fees
incurred in efforts to resolve this case through litigation were reasonable
given the time spent, the tasks performed, nature of the case, and experience
of the legal team. Additionally, Plaintiff has shown that the costs incurred
are allowable pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1033.5 because they
include filing fees, e-filing fees, and service of process fees. However, no
opposition was filed, thus Plaintiff is not entitled to any additional fees for
bringing forth this motion. 
II.        Conclusion 
            
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion to be Deemed Prevailing
Party and for Attorney’s Fees is GRANTED in the amount of $4,365.00 plus
$423.76 in costs.  
 
Plaintiff is
ordered to serve and electronically submit a proposed Amended Judgment
consistent with this Court’s ruling, within 10-days.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice. 
 
 