 Case Number:  23STCV29817    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



DEREK ANDERSEN, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
RYAN ELMORE, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV29817
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN PART MOTION
  TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
June 25, 2024



 
On December 6, 2023, Plaintiffs
Derek Andersen and Connie Andersen filed this action.  On February 1, 2024, they filed a first
amended complaint (“FAC”) against Defendants Ryan Elmore, Elmoro Holdings LLC,
Bret Lewis, Noble Realty Brokerage Inc., Professional Foundation Repair &
Construction Inc.
On
May 14, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a motion to compel arbitration with Ryan Elmore
and Elmoro Holdings LLC (“Defendants”).
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL
NOTICE
Plaintiffs’
request for judicial notice is denied as irrelevant.  Furthermore, the Court generally will not
consider new evidence submitted with a reply.¿¿(See¿Jay v. Mahaffey¿(2013)
218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537-1538 (Jay).)
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiffs’
objections to the Declaration of Ryan Elmore are sustained as argumentative.
Plaintiffs’
objections to the Declaration of Timothy C. Cronin are overruled.
DISCUSSION
When seeking to compel arbitration,
the moving party must allege the existence of an agreement to arbitrate.  (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001)
88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219 (Condee).) 
The burden then shifts to the opponent to prove the falsity of the agreement.  (Ibid.)  After the Court determines that an agreement to
arbitrate exists, it then considers objections to its enforceability.  (Ibid.)
The Court must grant a petition
to compel arbitration unless the movant has waived the right to compel arbitration
or if there are grounds to revoke the arbitration agreement.  (Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)  Under California law and the Federal Arbitration
Act (“FAA”), an arbitration agreement may be invalid based upon grounds applicable
to any contract, including unconscionability, fraud, duress, and public policy.  (Sanchez v. Western Pizza Enterprises, Inc.
(2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 154, 165-166.)
A.        Plaintiffs Have Shown The Existence of
An Arbitration Agreement.
Plaintiffs
provide a copy of their California Residential Purchase Agreement and Joint
Escrow Instructions, which contains an arbitration clause.  (D. Andersen Decl., Ex. 1.)  Through the Arbitration Agreement, the parties
agreed to arbitrate (under the FAA) “any dispute or claim in Law or equity
arising between them out of this Agreement or any resulting transaction, which
is not settled through mediation.”  The
full Residential Purchase Agreement is signed by Plaintiffs as Buyers and by
Ryan Elmore as Legally Authorized Signer for Elmoro Holdings LLC.  Plaintiffs have satisfied their burden of
showing the existence of an agreement to arbitrate.
In
opposition, Defendants do not contest the existence of this Arbitration
Agreement or its applicability to Plaintiffs’ claims.  Instead, they argue that Plaintiffs have
waived their right to compel arbitration and that Ryan Elmore cannot be ordered
to arbitration.
B.        Plaintiffs Did Not Waive Their Right
to Compel Arbitration.
Defendants
argue that Plaintiffs have waived their right to compel arbitration by filing
this action in court.  (Opposition at pp.
8-11.)
“‘In
determining waiver, a court can consider “(1) whether the party’s actions are
inconsistent with the right to arbitrate; (2) whether the ‘litigation machinery
has been substantially invoked’ and the parties ‘were well into preparation of
a lawsuit’ before the party notified the opposing party of an intent to
arbitrate; (3) whether a party either requested arbitration enforcement close
to the trial date or delayed for a long period before seeking a stay; (4)
whether a defendant seeking arbitration filed a counterclaim without asking for
a stay of the proceedings; (5) ‘whether important intervening steps [e.g.,
taking advantage of judicial discovery procedures not available in arbitration]
had taken place’; and (6) whether the delay ‘affected, misled, or prejudiced’
the opposing party.” ’  [Citation.]”  (St. Agnes Med. Ctr. v. PacifiCare of Cal.
(2003) 31 Cal.4th 1187, 1196 (St. Agnes).)  Recently, the United States Supreme Court
resolved a circuit split and “held that under the FAA, courts may not ‘condition
a waiver of the right to arbitrate on a showing of prejudice.’”  (Davis v. Shiekh Shoes, LLC (2022) 84
Cal.App.5th 956, 965 (Davis), quoting Morgan v. Sundance, Inc.
(2022) 142 S.Ct. 1708, 1713 (Morgan).) 
Accordingly, the St. Agnes factors “‘minus the prejudice
requirement’ are unaffected by Morgan and remain proper considerations
in the waiver inquiry.”  (Davis,
supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at p. 966.)
Contrary
to Defendants’ contention (Opposition at p. 10), Plaintiffs have not actively
and tactically litigated the merits of the case or manipulated their right to
arbitration.  The parties did participate
in mediation before Plaintiffs filed this action, but that was in accordance
with agreement to arbitrate disputes that are “not settled through mediation.”  (See Opposition at p. 11.)  Additionally, the Arbitration Agreement
permits the filing of a court action before proceeding to arbitration: it
states that “the filing of a court action to preserve a statute of limitations”
is not a waiver or violation of the mediation and arbitration provisions.
Plaintiffs
filed their FAC before any defendant appeared in this action.  After filing their FAC, Plaintiffs
substituted counsel and moved to compel arbitration.  Plaintiffs’ April 10, 2024 Case Management
Statement indicated that they are willing to participate in mediation and
binding private arbitration.  When
Plaintiffs posted jury fees on April 23, 2024, their notice included, “By
posting jury fees, Plaintiffs do not intend to and do not waive any right of
arbitration they have pursuant to a written agreement to arbitrate with certain
named defendants.”  Importantly,
Plaintiffs are seeking arbitration only as to Elmore and Elmoro Holdings; they
may still proceed to a jury trial as to all other defendants.
The
Court concludes that Plaintiffs have not waived their right to compel
arbitration.
C.        Ryan Elmore is Not a Party to the
Arbitration Agreement and Cannot Be Compelled to Arbitration Individually.
The
Residential Purchase Agreement identifies Ryan Elmore as the authorized signer
for the Entity Seller, and “This Agreement is being Signed by a Legally
Authorized Signer in a representative capacity and not in an individual
capacity.”  (D. Andersen Decl., Ex. 1 at
p. 15, ¶ 33(B)(2); see id. at p. 14, ¶ 28.)  Accordingly, on its face, the Arbitration
Agreement does not bind Ryan Elmore, who was not a party to the contract and
did not sign it in his individual capacity. 
Although Plaintiffs have alleged the existence of an arbitration agreement,
it does not apply to their claims against Ryan Elmore unless an exception
applies.
Plaintiffs
argue that Elmoro Holdings is the alleged alter ego of Ryan Elmore, so Ryan
Elmore should also be compelled to arbitration. 
(Reply at p. 5; see FAC ¶¶ 112-116.) 
A nonsignatory of an arbitration agreement may be bound by the agreement
under ordinary contract and agency principles, including “‘1) incorporation by
reference; 2) assumption; 3) agency; 4) veil-piercing/alter ego; and 5)
estoppel.’  [Citation.]  In addition, nonsignatories can enforce
arbitration agreements as third party beneficiaries.  [Citation.]” 
(Comer v. Micor, Inc. (9th Cir. 2006) 436 F.3d 1098, 1101.)
When
a nonsignatory is sued on the ground that they are the alter ego of a signatory,
that nonsignatory is entitled to the benefit of the arbitration provision and
may compel arbitration.  (Rowe v.
Exline (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1285.)  That is not the case here.  Ryan Elmore is not seeking to enforce the
Arbitration Agreement against Plaintiffs due to their allegations of him being
an alter ego.  Instead, Plaintiffs are
seeking to enforce the agreement against a nonsignatory based solely on their
allegations that he is an alter ego of a signatory.
Plaintiffs’
cited cases involve the doctrine of alter ego generally, but not in the context
of compelling a nonsignatory to arbitration on this basis.  (Reply at pp. 5-8.)  The exception is Borelli v. Black Diamond
Aggregates, Inc. (E.D. Cal., Mar. 21, 2017, No. 214CV02093KJMKJN) 2017 WL
1063564, (See Reply at pp. 7-8.)  This federal,
unpublished, and out-of-district authority has only persuasive, not precedential,
value—and the Court does not find it to be persuasive.  (See City of Hawthorne ex rel. Wohlner v. H&C
Disposal Co. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 1668, 1678, fn. 5.)
Furthermore,
Plaintiffs’ argument for alter ego liability relies on evidence submitted only with
its reply.  In its moving papers, Plaintiffs
did not present any argument about Ryan Elmore being bound to the Arbitration
Agreement as an alter ego, despite this being their alleged basis for
liability.  (See FAC ¶¶ 112-116.)  Although Plaintiffs’ initial burden is merely
to allege the existence of an agreement to arbitrate, that includes alleging
that the there is an agreement to arbitrate “that controversy” and that “a
party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that controversy.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)  Knowing that Ryan Elmore was not personally a
party to the Residential Purchase Agreement with the Arbitration Agreement and
that the Arbitration Agreement does not facially cover Plaintiffs’ controversy
with him, Plaintiffs should have also submitted their alter ego argument and
evidence with its initial motion.  The
Court will not consider this argument and evidence for the first time with the
reply.  (See¿Jay, supra, 218
Cal.App.4th at pp. 1537-1538.)
Accordingly,
the motion is denied as to Ryan Elmore. 
The motion is granted as to Elmoro Holdings LLC.
D.        The Action is Stayed Pending
Arbitration.
All
of Plaintiffs’ claims relate to the alleged breach of the Residential Purchase
Agreement.  The two cross-complaints seek
indemnity and contribution.  Accordingly,
the case against Elmoro Holdings LLC cannot be severed from the remainder of
the action, and the entire action must be stayed while Plaintiffs and Elmoro
Holdings LLC arbitrate their claims.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.4.)
CONCLUSION
Plaintiffs’
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED IN PART.  The case against Defendant Elmoro Holdings
LLC is ordered to arbitration.
The
entire action is STAYED pending the conclusion of the arbitration.
A
Status Conference re: Arbitration is scheduled for June 26, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in
Department 48 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse. 
Five court days before, the parties are to file a joint report stating the
name of their retained arbitrator and the status of arbitration.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 25th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 