  Case Number:  19STLC08619    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



CONSUMER ADVOCACY GROUP, INC., 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
WILLIAMS SONOMA, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 19STLC08619
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR JUDGMENT
  ON THE PLEADINGS
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
June 25, 2024



 
On
September 18, 2019, Plaintiff Consumer Advocacy Group, Inc. filed this Proposition
65 action against Defendants Santa Williams-Sonoma Inc., Trader Joe’s Company, and
Trader Joe’s East Inc.  The operative complaint
is the first amended complaint, filed on January 21, 2020.
On
May 1, 2024, Defendants filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings.
REQUESTS
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendants’
Request for Judicial Notice of Exhibits A, B, I, J-M is denied as irrelevant.  These orders are unpublished and nonprecedential.  (See Santa Ana Hospital Medical Center v. Belshe
(1997) 56 Cal.App.4th 819, 831 [“a written trial court ruling has no precedential
value”].)
Defendants’
Request for Judicial Notice of Exhibits C, D, G, H is granted.
Defendants’
Request for Judicial Notice of Exhibits E, F is denied as unnecessary.  These documents are already part of this case’s
record.
Defendants’
Request for Judicial Notice of Exhibit N is denied.  Defendants use this exhibit for the truth of its
contents, of which the Court cannot take judicial notice.
Plaintiff’s
Request for Judicial Notice of Exhibits 1, 7 is denied.  The Court cannot take judicial notice of the contents
of this document.
Plaintiff’s
Request for Judicial Notice of Exhibits 2, 5-6, 8, 12, 14-18 is denied as irrelevant.  These orders are unpublished and nonprecedential.
Plaintiff’s
Request for Judicial Notice of Exhibits 3-4, 13 is granted.
Plaintiff’s
Request for Judicial Notice of Exhibits 9-11 is denied as irrelevant.
DISCUSSION
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings is the functional equivalent to a general demurrer.  (Lance Camper Mfg. Corp. v. Republic Indemnity
Co. of Am. (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th 194, 198.) 
Like demurrers, motions for judgment on the pleadings challenge the legal
sufficiency of the allegations, not their veracity.  (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004)
116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)  The Court “must
accept as true all material facts properly pleaded, but does not consider conclusions
of law or fact, opinions, speculation, or allegations contrary to law or facts that
are judicially noticed.”  (Stevenson Real
Estate Services, Inc. v. CB Richard Ellis Real Estate Services, Inc. (2006)
138 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1219-1220.)
“Before
bringing a Prop. 65 action in the public interest, a private plaintiff must provide
a pre-suit notice containing sufficient information about the claim to (1) the Attorney
General and other public prosecutors, to allow them to adequately investigate the
claim’s basis, and (2) the alleged violator, to allow it an opportunity to cure
the violation. . . . Failure to comply with pre-suit notice requirements is grounds
for dismissal, and deficiencies cannot be cured after the complaint is filed.”  (Council for Education & Research on Toxics
v. Starbucks Corp. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 879, 899-900 (Starbucks Corp.).)
One
requirement of the pre-suit notice is that it must identify “the name, address,
and telephone number of the noticing individual or a responsible individual within
the noticing entity and the name of the entity.”  (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 27, § 25903, subd. (b)(2)(A).)
Defendants
argue that the pre-suit notices that Plaintiff served did not comply with the pre-suit
notice requirements because they did not identify a responsible individual “within”
Plaintiff.
Plaintiff
argues that “meaning of ‘within the entity’ must be interpreted in a manner consistent
with the purpose of the regulations” because “[t]he purpose of the notice and its
contents is to facilitate communication and the flow of information to provide alleged
violators and public enforcers an opportunity to assess the merits of a notice.”
(Opposition at p. 6.)  Accordingly, Plaintiff
argues that it substantially complied with the notice requirement and “CAG’s notices
to Defendants make clear that it has opted to designate its attorney as its agent
for communication concerning the notice.” 
(Id. at p. 8.)
A.        Strict Compliance is Required for the
Contents of the Pre-Suit Notice.
“When
a court attempts to discern the meaning of a statute, ‘it is well settled that we
must look first to the words of the statute, “because they generally provide the
most reliable indicator of legislative intent.” 
[Citation.]  If the statutory language
is clear and unambiguous our inquiry ends. 
“If there is no ambiguity in the language, we presume the Legislature meant
what it said and the plain meaning of the statute governs.”  [Citations.] 
In reading statutes, we are mindful that words are to be given their plain
and commonsense meaning.’  [Citation.]”  (Meyer v. Sprint Spectrum L.P. (2009) 45
Cal.4th 634, 639-640.)
“Although
courts sometimes construe statutory mandates liberally to effectuate their remedial
purpose [citation], strict compliance with a statute is warranted when our Legislature
evinces its intent that the statute’s requirements are to be followed precisely.  We may infer such an intent when (1) ‘the Legislature
has provided a detailed and specific mandate’ [citations], or (2) ‘the intent of
[the] statute can only be served by demanding strict compliance with its terms’
[citation].”  (Prang v. Los Angeles County
Assessment Appeals Board No. 2 (2020) 54 Cal.App.5th 1, 19 (Prang).)
The
plain language of Proposition 65 provides a detailed and specific mandate.  The notice of the violation “shall mean a notice
meeting all requirements of this section,” and “[n]o person shall commence an action
to enforce the provisions of the Act . . . except in compliance with all requirements
of this section.”  (Cal. Code Regs., tit.
27, § 25903, subd. (a).)  One of these requirements
is identifying “the name, address, and telephone number of the noticing individual
or a responsible individual within the noticing entity and the name of the entity”
within the notice.  (Cal. Code Regs., tit.
27, § 25903, subd. (b)(2)(A).)  This is a
specific requirement for who the individual must be.
By
contrast, other requirements for the notice are more generalized.  For example, the notice shall identify “the approximate
time period during which the violation is alleged to have occurred.”  (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 27, § 25903, subd. (b)(2)(A).)  For drinking water violations, the notice shall
include “a general identification of the discharge or release and of the source
of drinking water into which the discharges are alleged to have occurred.”  (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 27, § 25903, subd. (b)(2)(B).)  “Approximate” and “general” are less specific
requirements under their plain language.
Plaintiff
argues that Defendants’ definition of “responsible individual within the entity”
would “frustrate the purpose of the regulations.”  (Opposition at p. 6.)  This is essentially an argument that the intent
of the statute (“to provide information to public enforcers and alleged violators
to assess the nature and scope of the alleged violation,” id. at p. 5) can
still be served without strict compliance. 
(Cf. Prang, supra, 54 Cal.App.5th at p. 19 [intent for strict compliance
can be inferred when “the intent of [the] statute can only be served by demanding
strict compliance with its terms”].)  However,
Plaintiff does not refute that “the Legislature has provided a detailed and specific
mandate,” from which the Court may infer the Legislature’s intent that the statute’s
requirements are to be followed precisely. 
(Ibid.)
It
is true that “substantial compliance with statutory directives will suffice if the
purpose of the statute is thereby satisfied.” 
(Downtown Palo Alto Com. for Fair Assessment v. City Council (1986)
180 Cal.App.3d 384, 395; see In re K.H. (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 566, 603-604.)  However, the Final Statement of Reasons for Section
12903 (“FSOR”), on which Plaintiff relies (Opposition at pp. 5-7, 10-12), does not
prove that the purpose of section 25903 is satisfied by identifying the noticing
entity’s attorney.  The FSOR notes that “many
notices do not describe the nature of the alleged violation in an intelligible manner,”
which makes it difficult or impossible for the alleged violator to cure any violation
prior to litigation, thereby impeding the achievement of the goals of the statute
through quick compliance.  (Pl. RJN, Ex. 3
at pp. 7-8.)  The notice’s required information
is “intended to ensure that notices provide adequate information necessary for the
recipients to evaluate the nature and scope of the alleged violation.”  (Id. at p. 8.)  With respect to identifying the responsible individual
within the noticing entity, “Identification of the party giving the notice is needed
to give the receiving parties an opportunity to contact the noticing party to resolve
the issues raised in the notice and to identify who will be entitled to pursue a
civil action.”  (Ibid.)  Identifying the noticing entity’s attorney, rather
than an individual within the entity, is contrary to the goal of curing violations
without litigation.
Plaintiff
further argues about substantial compliance, citing Stasher v. Harger-Haldeman
(1962) 58 Cal.2d 23 (Stasher).  (Opposition
at p. 14.)  Plaintiff characterizes this case
as one where courts “routinely held that requirements subject to a preceding “shall”
are satisfied by substantial compliance.” 
(Ibid.)  According to Plaintiff,
“the California Supreme Court has found that a former civil code section requiring
that a document ‘shall recite’ a specified list of items was satisfied by substantial
compliance.”  (Ibid.)  In Stasher, the California Supreme Court
made clear that “[s]ubstantial compliance . . . means actual compliance in
respect to the substance essential to every reasonable objective of the statute.  But when there is such actual compliance as to
all matters of substance[,] then mere technical imperfections of form or variations
in mode of expression” should not be considered noncompliance.  (Stasher, supra, 58 Cal.2d at p. 29.)  The Court affirmed that the sales contract at
issue was substantially compliant because it contained the essential details, and
the imperfections were in complying with the letter of the statute while fully complying
with the substance and spirit of the statute. 
(Id. at pp. 31-33.)
Here,
Plaintiff’s notice does not comply with all matters of substance.  It is undisputed that only Reuben Yeroushalmi
was identified; he is an agent of Plaintiff as its attorney, but he is not “within”
Plaintiff’s entity.  Thus, the notice identifies
a substantively different individual than what is required by the statute.
Plaintiff
also argues that he should be considered the appropriate contact person because
Proposition 65 cases can be very complicated: “Given that the purpose of the contact
information requirement in Section 25903 is to facilitate communication concerning
the details of the violation with both public enforcers and violators, and given
the scientifically-intensive and complex issues of law and fact involved in assessing
an alleged violation, construing ‘responsible individual within the entity’ to preclude
an enforcer from designating its attorney would frustrate the purpose of the regulations.”  (Opposition at p. 6.)  But if that was what the Legislature had intended,
then it could have required the identification of any individual who can speak on
behalf of the entity, rather than an individual “within” the entity.  Plaintiff’s interpretation would render “within”
meaningless, and “[i]nterpretations that render statutory language meaningless are
to be avoided.”  (Plantier v. Ramona Municipal
Water Dist. (2019) 7 Cal.5th 372, 386.)
Plaintiff
also compares the purpose of the required information here to the purpose of the
certificate of merit, deeming them both to be methods of contacting the noticing
entity.  (See Opposition at pp. 5-12.)  This comparison actually weighs against Plaintiff’s
argument because that statutory language expressly permits counsel to sign the certificate
of merit: “the notice of the alleged violation shall include a certificate of merit
executed by the attorney for the noticing party, or by the noticing party, if the
noticing party is not represented by an attorney.”  (Health & Saf. Code, § 25249.7, subd. (d)(1).)  This confirms that if the Legislature had intended
for outside counsel to be the designated individual under section 25903, subdivision
(b)(2)(A), it would have stated so.
Plaintiff
cites Yeroushalmi v. Miramar Sheraton (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 738 (Miramar)
for that court’s “emphasis on the purpose of the notice requirements, both in interpreting
those requirements and in evaluating compliance therewith.”  (Opposition at p. 9; see id. at p. 5.)  There, the information that was argued to be in
substantial compliance was information about the violation itself.  (Miramar, supra, 88 Cal.App.4th at pp.
745-746.)  One notice was “inadequate by any
measure, because it fails to state, in even the simplest terms, just what the violation
was.”  (Id. at p. 746.)  Two other notices also “[did] not even give enough
information to discern just what the violation was.”  (Id. at p. 747.)  The noticing entities argued that “the statute
must be given a broad interpretation, to further its basic remedial objectives,”
and therefore “their broad general notices should be deemed sufficient.”  (Ibid.)  The court focused on the requirement that the
notice include the name of the product “with sufficient specificity” and the location
of exposure “in a manner sufficient to distinguish those facilities or sources from
others for which no violation is alleged.” 
(Id. at pp. 745-746 [quoting Cal. Code Regs., tit. 27, § 25903, subds.
(b)(2)(D), (b)(2)(F)].)  The court “conclude[d]
that the framers of the initiative intended that the notice contain sufficient facts
to facilitate and encourage the alleged polluter to comply with the law, and to
encourage the public attorney charged with enforcement to undertake its duty,” and
the notices at issue—lacking sufficient facts to identify the alleged violation—gave
“no notice at all.”  (Id. at p. 750.)  The Miramar court had to consider what
information was “sufficient”—an undefined and ambiguous term.  Here, there is no ambiguity: the notice “shall
identify . . . a responsible individual within the noticing entity.”  (Cal. Code Regs., tit. 27, § 25903, subd. (b)(2)(A).)
Plaintiff
relies heavily on Consumer Advocacy Group, Inc. v. Kintetsu Enterprises of America
(2007) 150 Cal.App.4th 953 (Kintetsu). 
(See Opposition at pp. 5-6, 9-13, 17.) 
In that case, “Circle K Stores, Inc. was erroneously sued as Circle K Co.,
and Circle K.  Citing no legal authority,
it argues that the notice was insufficient because it was incorrectly named.”  (Kintetsu, supra, 150 Cal.App.4th at p.
972.)  The Court of Appeal determined that
Circle K forfeited its right to contest the notice on the ground that it was improperly
named because by filing a demurrer, it had sought a dismissal on grounds other than
personal jurisdiction.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff argues that the Court of Appeal’s rejection
of Circle K’s “challenge to the validity of the notice on the grounds that it failed
to strictly comply with Section 25903(B)(2)(a)’s requirement that the notice ‘shall
identify . . . the name of the alleged violator’ . . . is manifestly at odds with
Defendants’ contention that the requirements Section 25903(B)(2)(a) are subject
to strict compliance.”  (Opposition at p.
12.)  According to Plaintiff, if strict compliance
was required, the then failure to correctly identify “the name of the alleged violator”
“would have been grounds for dismissal in its own right, independent
of any challenge to personal jurisdiction.” 
(Id. at pp. 12-13.)  The court
did not analyze whether the notice was substantially compliant despite the incorrect
name of the violator, and “cases are not authority for propositions not considered.”  (B.B. v. County of Los Angeles (2020) 10
Cal.5th 1, 11, quotation marks omitted.)
The
Kintetsu court did, however, consider the notice requirements with respect
to the inclusion of mandatory information. 
(Kintetsu, supra, 150 Cal.App.4th at pp. 973-974.)  Section 12903, subdivision (b)(1) states that
each notice “shall include as an attachment a copy of ‘The Safe Drinking Water and
Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986 (Proposition 65): A Summary’ (see Appendix A) prepared
by the lead agency.”  (Cal. Code Regs., tit.
27, § 25903, subd. (b)(1).)  The court concluded
that the failure to follow that requirement rendered the notice invalid because
the notice failed to satisfy a mandatory prerequisite.  (Kintetsu, supra, 150 Cal.App.4th at pp.
973-974.)  Plaintiff’s notice here also fails
to satisfy a mandatory prerequisite: it does not identify “a responsible individual
within the noticing entity.”
The
Court finds that the pre-suit notice requirements that are the subject of this motion
are identified in a detailed and specific mandate, so the “Legislature evinces its
intent that the statute’s requirements are to be followed precisely.”  (Prang, supra, 54 Cal.App.5th at p. 19.)  Additionally, the specific use of the terms “shall”
and “all” confirm that the Legislature intended that “all” requirements identified
“shall” be satisfied as a prerequisite to commencing a Proposition 65 action.  Therefore, the Court concludes that the notice
requirements must be strictly construed and that substantial compliance is insufficient.  As a result, the notice requirements must include
all required information, including the responsible individual within the noticing
entity.
B.        Plaintiff Did Not Identify an Individual
“Within” the Entity.
On
September 2, 2018 and November 6, 2018, Plaintiff issued pre-suit notices of violation
against Defendants.  (Def. RJN, Exs. C-D.)  Each notice states, “Violators may contact CAG
concerning this Notice through its designated person, its attorney, Reuben Yeroushalmi
. . . .”  The Certificates of Merit also identify
Reuben Yeroushalmi as “the attorney for the noticing party.”  Plaintiff concedes that Reuben Yeroushalmi is
only an agent of Plaintiff as its attorney. 
(See Opposition at pp. 8-10.)
Because
the notices did not include the required identifying information of “a responsible
individual within the noticing entity,” they are noncompliant, and the action is
subject to dismissal.  (See Starbucks Corp.,
supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at pp. 899-900.)
The
motion is granted.
CONCLUSION
The
motion for judgment on the pleadings is GRANTED in favor of Santa Williams-Sonoma
Inc., Trader Joe’s Company, and Trader Joe’s East Inc.
Because
“deficiencies [of the notice] cannot be cured after the complaint is filed” (Starbucks
Corp., supra, 84 Cal.App.5th at pp. 899-900), no leave to amend is granted.
Defendants
are ordered to submit a proposed form of judgment within five days.
A
Non-Appearance Case Review re: Submission of Proposed Judgment is scheduled for
July 5, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 25th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 