 Case Number:  22STCV22161    Hearing Date:   June 25, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ENGINEER.AI
  CORPORATION, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
TALKDESK, INC.,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV22161
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING DISCOVERY
  MOTIONS
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
June 25, 2024



 
Pending before the Court are four motions to compel
further responses (CRS # 636499365487, 795863507701, 052981246606, 614693412366)
and one motion to compel depositions (CRS # 055732197072) filed by Plaintiffs
Engineer.ai Corporation, Engineer.ai Global Ltd., and Engineer.ai India Private
Ltd, and another motion to compel depositions (CRS # 055732197072) filed by
Defendant Talkdesk Inc.
When reviewing these motions, the
Court also reviewed Defendant’s motion to compel further (CRS # 102037715086),
currently set for hearing on October 29, 2024.
A.        The
Parties Must Pay Additional Filing Fees.
Plaintiffs filed a single motion to
compel the depositions of (1) Tiago Paiva, (2) Shauna Geraghty, and (3)
Defendant’s PMK.
Defendant filed a single motion to
compel the depositions of (1) Plaintiffs’ PMK, (2) Marc Thurlow, (3) Nishtha
Sharma, (4) Sachin Duggal, and (5) Joseph Norena.
Each request should have been filed
as a separate motion, with separate filing fees and hearing reservations.  Despite being scheduled as only two motions
and two hearings, the total substance is that of eight motions to compel
depositions.  This unfairly allows the
parties to take only two hearing reservations (instead of eight) and results in
an inaccurate projection and accounting of the Court’s workload,
inconveniencing both the Court and other litigants. 
All parties are ordered not to do
this again and are warned that continued action of this type may result in
monetary sanctions under Code of Civil Procedure section 177.5.  For any future discovery motions, the parties
must file a separate motion for each set of discovery, or the Court may strike
or deny the motions for being improperly filed.
Plaintiffs are ORDERED to pay two
additional filing fees within 10 days.
Defendant is ORDERED to pay four
additional filing fees within 10 days.
A Non-Appearance Case Review Re:
Payment of Additional Filing Fees is scheduled for July 10, 2024 at 9:00 a.m.
B.        The
Parties Did Not Meaningfully Meet and Confer.

For
Plaintiffs’ discovery requests, Plaintiffs sent at least three emails to
Defendant about Defendant’s objections and responses, but they did not receive
a substantive response.  (Park Disc.
Decl. ¶¶ 10-12.)
For
Plaintiffs’ deposition notices, Defendant agreed to produce a PMK for only
three of fifteen topics.  (Park Depo.
Decl. ¶ 15.)  After meeting and
conferring, on April 11, 2024, Defendant agreed to produce a PMK on all but six
topics.  (Park Depo. Decl. ¶ 16.)  On May 22, 2024, Defendant continued to
refuse to produce any deposition witnesses. 
(Park Depo. Decl. ¶ 19.)
For
Defendant’s deposition notices, Plaintiffs offered to produce Duggal and Norena
for depositions, provided that Defendant agreed to modify or vacate the
Disqualification Order in exchange for an injunction.  (Park Depo. Opp. Decl. ¶ 20.)  Plaintiffs agreed to produce a PMK on 29 of
76 topics.  (Park Depo. Opp. Decl. ¶ 21.)
These
are not good faith efforts to resolve the matters informally before filing
motions.  The Court ORDERS the parties to
meaningfully meet and confer about the substance of the discovery requests and
responses, including the deposition notices.
C.        The Court Continues the Hearings for Further
Meet-and-Confer Efforts and a Revised Joint Statement.
The
joint statements are unnecessarily long and poorly organized.  Many of the items involve the same or
substantially similar topics and should be grouped together within the joint
statement.  Additionally, if the
responses, objections, or arguments are the same for multiple discovery items, the
parties should state those objections or arguments only once and incorporate
them by reference in the subsequent items. 
This will result in a more efficient joint statement.
Based
on the current filings, the Court is inclined to overrule objections to
Plaintiffs’ RFAs.  Where Defendant stated
an unequivocal denial, that is a complete and compliant response once the
improper objections are put aside. 
Defendant’s supplemental responses typically followed unequivocal
denials, and they are supplemental—not amended—responses.  To the extent that Plaintiffs contend that
the denial may be false or unsupported, Plaintiffs may be able to recover the
reasonable fees and costs of proving an improperly denied fact.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.420)  The Court cannot order Defendant to admit to
matters that it has unequivocally denied. 
The Court cannot rule on Plaintiffs’ Form Interrogatories as currently
filed because for Form Rog 17.1, the related RFAs are not provided.  The Court is also inclined to overrule the objections
as to Form Rog 17.1.   Defendant’s
responses cannot refer to prior motions or filings that predate Plaintiffs’ new
counsel after their original counsel was disqualified.  Plaintiffs’ Special Interrogatories are not
premature, and Defendant’s responses are incomplete and nonresponsive.  These problems equally arise in Defendant’s
future motion to compel further responses (CRS # 102037715086).  The Court is inclined to overrul Plaintiffs’
boilerplate objections to interrogatories, requests for production, and
requests for admissions.
Although
this case is not subject to the new mandatory disclosures of Code of Civil
Procedure section 2016.090 (as revised, effective January 1, 2024), the Court
strongly believes that the parties should stipulate to its applicability here
as an alternative way to resolve, or at least minimize, the discovery disputes.  (See also Code Civ. Proc., § 2016.090 [effective
Jan. 1, 2020 to Dec. 31, 2023].)  The
Court is considering whether it has the authority to impose CCP Section
2016.090 (and which version of the statute to impose) on the parties and
directs the parties to brief this question before the continued hearing on
these motions.  (See Code Civ. Proc., §§
128, subd. (a), 2019.020, subd. (b).)
The
parties are ordered to meet and confer with these tentative rulings in mind and
file a revised joint statement with any unresolved items.
D.        Conclusion
The
Court believes that the parties may benefit from some general discovery
guidelines.  First, the Court typically
finds that “general objections” to discovery requests are unhelpful and without
merit.  Any objection worth making is worth
making specifically as to those requests to which it relates.  Anytime anyone is using cut-and-paste to
state objections, they should pause and remember that this Court finds the use
of cut-and-paste objections to usually be without merit.
Second,
privilege objections without privilege logs are without merit unless the entire
request seeks nothing but privileged material such that a log is not needed to
rule on the objections.
Third,
the parties’ objections on the grounds of vagueness leave the Court with the
impression that counsel are not fluent in English.  Common words are apparently so vague they
cannot be understood at all.  In this
view, discovery cannot take place because nobody understands anything.  Even where the term actually is vague, such as
“INCIDENT” as used here, the responding party should be able to come up with
some definition if the parties cannot agree.  The best approach where a request really is
vague in ways that affect the discovery response is to explain the vagueness,
to indicate what the responding party believes a reasonable definition would
be, and to respond to the request using that reasonable definition.
Fourth,
objections are frequently asserted that discovery is unduly burdensome.  Reams of paper are spent asserting this
objection even though the request may seek something such as a single letter
and any follow-up correspondence relating to that letter.  Burden objections that are stated without
providing evidence of factual details of what the burden is are without
merit.  All of the burden objections
asserted by the parties so far are unproven and so without merit.
Fifth,
a common objection is that the propounding party already has the
information.  This objection is without
merit.  
Sixth,
objections that the discovery requests are made too soon and that “discovery is
ongoing” are without merit.  If nothing
is known, a proper answer is to indicate just that.  Discovery responses can be amended and
supplemented later as information is discovered.  
The
Hearings on Motion to Compel Further Discovery Responses and Hearings on Motion
to Compel Depositions are CONTINUED to _____________ at 8:30 a.m. in Department
48 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse.
The
parties are ORDERED to meet and confer and file a single revised joint
statement no later than 10 court days before the continued hearing.
The
parties are also ORDERED to brief the issue of the Court’s authority to manage
discovery in this action by imposing CCP Section 2016.090 on the parties.  The parties are ordered to file their briefs
no later than 10 court days before the continued hearing.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit.  If all parties in the case submit on the
tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are required unless a
companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference) is also on
calendar.
 
        
Dated this 25th day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D.
  Long
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 