 Case Number:  21STCV07722    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA  
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES -
CENTRAL DISTRICT 
 



Natasha Vea,
  
Plaintiff, 
vs. 
 
Mike Brown Grandstands, Inc., et al., 
 
Defendant(s). 


) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 


      CASE NO.: 21STCV07722 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: Motion to
  Continue Trial and Re-Open Discovery 
 
 
 
Dept. 27 
1:30 p.m. 
November 16, 2023 



 
                   
I.INTRODUCTION 
 
On February 26, 2021, Plaintiff
Natasha Vea (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Mike Brown
Grandstands, Inc., and Jaime Davalos (“Defendants”) alleging two causes of
action for Motor Vehicle and Negligence arising from a vehicle accident where
Plaintiff sustained various injuries. 
 
            On
August 19, 2021, Defendants Mike Brown Grandstands, Inc., and Jaime Davalos
filed an Answer. 
 
            On
October 19, 2023, Defendants filed the current Motion to Continue Trial Date
and Re-Open Discovery. As of November 13, 2023, no opposition has been filed. 
 
                
II.LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Although continuances of trials
are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c).)  The Court may grant
a continuance only on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring the
continuance.  (Ibid.)  Good
cause includes the unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness, party,
or trial counsel; “the substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is
an affirmative showing that the substitution is required in the interests of
justice;” the addition of a new party; a party’s excused inability to obtain
evidence; or a significant, unanticipated change in the case.  (Ibid.) 
 
Furthermore, the Court may look
to the following factors in determining whether a trial continuance is
warranted: 
 
“(1) The
proximity of the trial date; 
(2) Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; 
(3) The
length of the continuance requested; 
(4) The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 
(5) The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
(6) If the
case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status
and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; 
(7) The
court's calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; 
(8) Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 
(9) Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance; 
(10)
Whether the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial
of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
(11) Any
other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application. 
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(d)(1)-(11).) 
 
             
III.DISCUSSION 
 
Defendants move to have the Court continue the trial until
March 2024. Defendants argue that good cause exist to continue the trial that
is scheduled for November 17, 2023. The discovery cut-off date was October 18,
2023. However, on October 11, 2023, Defendants were informed from Plaintiff’s
counsel that Plaintiff had two surgeries, one in March 2023, and one in August
2023. Thus, a trial continuance is necessary to allow Defendants to complete
further discovery given that they were just informed about these two surgeries.

 
The decision to grant or deny a
continuance is committed to the sound discretion of the trial court.
[Citation.] The trial court's exercise of that discretion will be upheld if it
is based on a reasoned judgment and complies with legal principles and policies
appropriate to the case before the court.” (Thurman v. Bayshore Transit Management, Inc. (2012) 203 Cal.App.4th
1112, 1126.) Further, judges have to ensure a somewhat swift resolution while
still ensuring that the matter is resolved based on the merits rather than any
procedural issues. “When the two policies collide head-on, the strong public
policy favoring disposition on the merits outweighs the competing policy
favoring judicial efficiency.” (Oliveros
v. County of Los Angeles (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1389, 1395.)
 
Here, the Court finds that
continuing the trial and re-opening discovery to have the cut-off date
correspond to the new trial date is proper. Here, only a month before trial was
set to begin, and a week before discovery ended, Defendants discovered that
Plaintiff had two different surgeries, involving her spine. Thus, Defendants have
not had an opportunity to serve discovery or take a deposition of Plaintiff
after these surgeries. Previously, Plaintiff’s ex parte application to continue
the trial dates indicated that Plaintiff was electing to undergo and underwent
spinal surgery on March 6, 2023. The Court granted this application. Thus,
while it is the not the first continuance, the August 2023 surgery was not
disclosed until October 2023. Therefore, without continuing the matter,
Defendants will be prejudiced. Lastly, both parties are agreeable to a
continuance. 
 
Motion to Continue Trial and discovery
is GRANTED.  Trial shall be continued to March
XX, 2024, and the discover cut-off shall be tied to this new trial date.
 
 
             
IV.CONCLUSION 
 
Motion to Continue Trial is
GRANTED. 
 
Moving party to give
notice. 
 
Parties who intend to submit on
this tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions
provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that
if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the
opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the
matter.  Unless you receive a submission from all other parties in the
matter, you should assume that others might appear at the hearing to
argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating
submission on this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final
order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
Dated: November 16, 2023 
 



  


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian   
Judge of the Superior
  Court 
 



 
 