 Case Number:  21STCV16496    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



CIRIACO LOPEZ GARCIA, 
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
HONGYAN
  DING, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV16496
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO SUBSTITUTE SUCCESSOR-IN-INTEREST FOR DECEASED PLAINTIFF  


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
November
  15, 2023



 
MOVING PARTY: The Estate of Ciriaco Garcia Lopez (the
“Estate”)  
RESPONDING PARTY: N/A  
 
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This action arises from a motor vehicle
accident that occurred on November 27, 2019. Plaintiff Ciriaco Lopez Garcia
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Hongyan Ding and Does 1 to
20, alleging causes of action for motor vehicle and general negligence. 
On October 23, 2023, the Estate of
Ciriaco Garica Lopez (the “Estate”) filed and served a motion (the “Motion”) for
an order granting the substitution of the successor-in-interest, Irene Segovia
(“Segovia”), for Plaintiff who is deceased. 
The Motion is made on the grounds that
Plaintiff commenced this action prior to his death and later passed away.
Plaintiff’s girlfriend, Segovia, seeks to become the successor-in-interest. 
The Motion is unopposed. Any opposition
to the Motion was required to have been filed and served at least nine court
days prior to the hearing pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure,
Section 1005(b).  
 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
On motion after the death of a person
who commenced an action or proceeding, the court shall allow a pending action
or proceeding that does not abate to be continued by the decedent’s personal
representative or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in interest. (Code Civ.
Proc. § 377.31.) A decedent’s successor in interest means the beneficiary of
the decedent’s estate or other successor in interest who succeeds to a cause of
action or to a particular item of the property that is the subject of a cause
of action. (Code Civ. Proc. § 377.11.) 
Code of Civil Procedure § 377.32
provides the following: 
 

The
     person who seeks to commence an action or proceeding or to continue a
     pending action or proceeding as the decedent’s successor in interest under
     this article, shall execute and file an affidavit or a declaration under
     penalty of perjury under the laws of this state stating all of the
     following: 

 

The
     decedent’s name. 


The
     date and place of the decedent’s death. 


“No
     proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the
     decedent’s estate.” 


If
     the decedent’s estate was administered, a copy of the final order showing
     the distribution of the decedent’s cause of action to the successor in interest. 


Either
     of the following, as appropriate, with facts in support thereof: 


“The
     affiant or declarant is the decedent’s successor in interest (as defined
     in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure) and succeeds
     to the decedent’s interest in the action or proceeding.” 


“The
     affiant or declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s
     successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code
     of Civil Procedure) with respect to the decedent’s interest in the action
     or proceeding.” 


“No
     other person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or
     to be substituted for the decedent in the pending action or
     proceeding.” 


“The
     affiant or declarant affirms or declares under penalty of perjury under
     the laws of the State of California that the foregoing is true and
     correct.” 

 

Where
     more than one person executes the affidavit or declaration under this
     section, the statements required by subdivision (a) shall be modified as
     appropriate to reflect that fact. 

 

A
     certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate shall be attached to
     the affidavit or declaration. 

 
III.       
DISCUSSION
In support of the Motion, the Estate
presents the declaration of counsel, Kamran Behnam (“Behnam”), who declares
that there are no proceedings now pending in California for administration of
the decedent’s estate. (Behnam Decl., ¶ 3.) Behnam attests that Plaintiff
passed away on December 12, 2022. (Id., ¶ 4.) At the time of his death,
Plaintiff had no issue or survivors and was in an eight-year relationship with
Segovia. (Id., ¶ 5.) Plaintiff is survived by Segovia. (Id.) Counsel
declares that Segovia is Plaintiff’s next of kin and is the proper and only
successor-in-interest. (Id.) Counsel also states that “Ms. Vega has
since come forward as the appropriate party to become her late boyfriend’s
successor-in interest.” (Id.) 
The Court finds that the Estate has not
met the requirements of California Code of Civil Procedure, Section 377.32.
While an Affidavit of Heirship[1]
from Segovia (“Affidavit”) is attached to the Motion, such affidavit does not
appear to be signed by Segovia. The signature line is blank but it appears that
an electronic signature may have been attempted to be effectuated. 
Moreover, the Court finds that the
Affidavit conflicts with the declaration of counsel. While Segovia seeks to
become the successor-in-interest, the declaration of counsel references another
party, Ms. Vega, as the appropriate party to become Plaintiff’s
successor-in-interest. Due to the inconsistencies in counsel’s declaration, the
Court cannot ascertain whether Segovia or another party is the appropriate
successor-in-interest. 
Also, the Motion is deficient because a
certified copy of Plaintiff’s death certificate was not attached to neither the
declaration of Behnam nor the Affidavit and is not compliant with Code Civ.
Proc. § 377.32(c). Furthermore, neither the declaration of Behnam nor the
Affidavit provides that “[n]o other person has a superior right . . . to be
substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding” as required
by Code Civ. Proc. § 377.32(a)(6). 
In sum, the Estate failed to comply
with Code Civ. Proc. § 377.32.
Accordingly, the Court DENIES the
Motion WITHOUT PREJUDICE.  
 
IV.     CONCLUSION
The Motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice
of this ruling. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative
must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention
to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the
court website at www.lacourt.org.  Please
be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
      Dated this 15th day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 


