 Case Number:  22STCV24875    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  27 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT 
 



Steven Pagliaro
 
Plaintiff, 
vs. 
 
Tenten Wilshire, et al., 
 
Defendant(s). 


) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 
) 


      CASE
  NO.: 22STCV24875 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE: Motion to Compel Further Responses  to Form Interrogatories
   
 
Dept. 27 
1:30 p.m. 
November 15, 2023.



 
                    I.INTRODUCTION 
 
On
August 2, 2022, Plaintiff Steven Pagliaro (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint
against Defendants Tenten Wilshire, LLC, Amidi Partners, LLC, Amidi Real
Estate, LLC, Admidi, LLC (“Defendants”) alleging two causes of action for
premises liability and general negligence. The complaint alleges that
Plaintiff, a tenant of the Subject Property, was using the back staircase that
was slippery, uneven, and/or otherwise dangerous. Plaintiff fell and was
injured.
 
On
January 20, 2023, Defendants Tenten Wilshire, LLC, and Amir, LLC filed an
Answer.
 
On
September 19, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Form Interrogatories, Set One. As of November 9, 2023, no opposition has been
filed.
 
 
                 II.LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
The propounding party may bring a
motion to compel further responses to interrogatories if the propounding
party deems that production is deficient, incomplete, or contains meritless
objections.  CCP § 2030.300(a).  The legal burden to
justify refusing or failing to provide discovery lies with the objecting
party.  (Coy v. Superior Court (1962) 58 Cal.2d 210,
220). 
 
The motion must be accompanied by a
good-faith meet-and-confer declaration. CCP § 2031.310(b). “A
determination of whether an attempt at informal resolution is adequate . . .
involves the exercise of discretion.” (Stewart v. Colonial W. Agency (2001)
87 Cal.App.4th 1006, 1016).  “The history of the litigation, the
nature of the interaction between counsel, the nature of the issues, the type
and scope of discovery requested, the prospects for success and other similar
factors can be relevant.  Judges have broad powers and responsibility to
determine what measure and procedures are appropriate in varying
circumstances.”  Id. 
 
CCP § 2030.300 provides the court
shall apposes monetary sanctions against a person, party, or attorney that
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel further response, unless
that subject to sanction acted “with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of sanctions unjust.”  CCP §
2023.010(h).  The court “may impose a monetary sanction” against any
attorney or party, or both, to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney
fees, if there has been a “misuse of the discovery process.  CCP §
2023.030(a).  “A trial court has broad discretion when imposing a
discovery sanction.”  (Lee v. Lee (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th
1553, 1559). 
 
              III.DISCUSSION 
 
Plaintiff
seeks to compel Defendant Tenten Wilshire, LLC, to provide further responses,
without objections, to the Form Interrogatories, Set One, Nos. 12.1, 12.2,
12.7, 15.1, 16.9, and 17.1.
 
Background:
 
            Plaintiff
propounded the initial Form Interrogatories back on August 29, 2022, with a
deadline of September 28, 2022. Defendant served unverified responses on
January 4, 2023. Over the next months, Plaintiff sent multiple meet and confer
letters to defense counsel, granting multiple extensions and set up an Informal
Discovery Conference. By August 29, 2023, Plaintiff granted Defendant one final
extension, with responses due on September 12, 2023. However, as of the date of
this motion, Plaintiff has not received verified substantive responses.
 
            Form
Interrogatories:
 
12.1: State the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number of each
individual:
(a) who witnessed the
INCIDENT or the events occurring immediately before or after the INCIDENT;
(b) who made any statement
at the scene of the INCIDENT;
(c) who heard any
statements made about the INCIDENT by any individual at the scene;
(d) who YOU OR ANYONE
ACTING ON YOUR BEHALF claim has knowledge of the INCIDENT (except for expert
witnesses covered by Code of Civil Procedure section 2034).
 
12.2: Have YOU OR ANYONE ACTING ON YOUR BEJALF interviewed
any individual concerning the INCIDENT? If so, for each individual state:
(a) the name, ADDRESS, and
telephone number of the individual interviewed;
(b) the date of the
interview, and
(c) the name, ADDRESS, and
telephone number of the PERSON who conducted the interview
 
12.7: Have YOU OR ANYONE ACTING ON YOUR BEHALF inspected
the scene of the
INCIDENT? If so, for each inspection state:
(a) the name, ADDRESS, and
telephone number of the individual making the inspection (except for expert
witnesses covered by Code of Civil Procedure sections 2034.210–2034.310); and
(b) the date of the
inspection.
 
15.1: Identify each denial of a material allegation and
each special or affirmative defense in
your pleadings and for each:
(a) state all facts upon
which you base the denial or special or affirmative defense;
(b) state the names,
ADDRESSES, and telephone numbers of all PERSONS who have knowledge of those
facts; and
(c) identify all DOCUMENTS
and other tangible things that support your denial or special or affirmative
defenses and state the name, ADDRESS, and telephone
number of the PERSON who has each DOCUMENT.
 
16.9: Do YOU OR ANYONE ACTING ON YOUR BEHALF have any
DOCUMENT (for
example, insurance bureau index reports) concerning claims
of personal injuries made before or
after the INCIDENT by a plaintiff in this case? If so, for
each plaintiff state:
(a) the source of each
DOCUMENT;
(b) the date each claim
arose;
(c) the nature of each
claim; and
(d) the name, ADDRESS, and
telephone number of the PERSON who has each DOCUMENT.
 
17.1: Is your response to each request for admission served
with these interrogatories an
unqualified admission? If not, for each response that is
not an unqualified admission:
(a) state the number of
the request;
(b) state all facts upon
which you base your response;
(c) state the names,
ADDRESSES, and telephone numbers of all PERSONS who have knowledge of those
facts; and
(d) identify all DOCUMENTS
and other tangible things that support your response and state the name,
ADDRESS, and telephone number of the PERSON who has each DOCUMENT or thing
 
Plaintiff moves to have Defendant
provide further responses as the responses provided were incomplete, evasive,
and non-responsive. For example, as to No. 12.1, Defendant responded to this
request (which seeks information about individuals who either witnessed, made
statements, or claims o have knowledge of the incident) indicating that there
were other individuals who were on the video footage. However, Defendant does
not identify these individuals. As Plaintiff argues, as the manager of the
subject premises, Defendant would possess information about these other
individuals who were present.
 
            As
for No. 12.2, which seeks information about individuals who have been
interviewed, Defendant indicated that no formal interviews had take place.
However, Plaintiff argues that the interrogatory is not limited to just formal
interviews.
 
            As
for 12.7, which seeks information about inspecting the area, Defendant stated
that the area is walked “on a regular basis as a part of the routine
maintenance and management of the property.” Plaintiff argues that this is
incomplete as it does not indicate what is a regular basis, who walks the
properties, and the dates.
 
            As
for 15.1, which seeks facts as to the denials and affirmatives defenses in the
answer, Plaintiff argues that Defendant denied each allegation and pleaded 17
affirmative defenses, but only provided objections to this response.

            As for
16.9, which seeks documents concerning claims of personal injuries by the
plaintiff before and after the incident, Plaintiff argues that the document
that Defendant produced does not concern claims for personal injuries.
 
            As
for 17.1, which concerns the requests for admissions, Plaintiff argues that
Defendant provided qualified admissions for Nos. 3, 4, 5, and 17, but did not
include information as to the requested subparts (a) through (d).
 
The Court finds that further responses
must be provided. Here, Plaintiff is seeking relevant information. “Section
2017.010 and other statues governing discovery ‘must be construed liberally in
favor or disclosure unless the request is clearly improper by virtue of
well-established causes of denial’” (Yelp Inc. v. Superior Court (2017)
17 Cal.App.5th 1, 15). In Defendant’s response to Form Interrogatory No. 12.1,
Defendant’s response indicated that there were other individuals in the video.
As the manager, Defendant would be in a better position than Plaintiff to
determine who those individuals are, if they were tenants or visitors.
Additionally, despite saying that it produced the document requested in No.
16.9, Plaintiff indicates it did not contain the requested information about
personal injury claims. Thus, this information is relevant, Defendant has
failed to provide a sufficient reason for not sufficiently responding to these
Form Interrogatories, and discovery disclosure is construed liberally.
 
Therefore, Motion to
Compel Further Response to Form Interrogatories is GRANTED.
 
              IV.CONCLUSION 
 
Therefore,
Motion to Compel Further Response to Form 12.1 is GRANTED.
 
Moving
party to give notice. 
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative as
directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 
Dated:
November 15, 2023 
 



  


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
    
Judge of the
  Superior Court 
 



 
 
 