 Case Number:  20STCV31937    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



RONALD CHANG, etc.,  
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
RAMGLASS
  ENTEPRISES, INC. etc., et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 20STCV31937
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY
  DISCOVERY SANCTIONS IN THE AMOUNT OF $3,015.00  


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
November
  15, 2023



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Ramglass Enterprises, Inc. dba
J&J Roofing (“Defendant”)   
RESPONDING PARTY: N/A  
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This action arises from a negligently
installed roof which caught fire. Plaintiff Ronald Chang (“Plaintiff”) filed a
complaint against Defendants Ramglass Enterprises, Inc. dba J&J Roofing
(“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 50, alleging causes of action for negligence and
professional negligence. 
On October 13, 2023, Defendant filed
and served an unopposed motion (the “Motion”) for an order to compel
Plaintiff’s responses to Defendant’s Request for Production of Documents, Set
One, within seven days of the Court’s order. Defendant also requests monetary
sanctions against Plaintiff and/or Plaintiff’s counsel, The Barnes Firm, in the
amount of $3,015.00 to be paid to Defendant’s counsel, Alan J. Carnegie of Law
Offices of Alan J. Carnegie.[1]

The Motion is unopposed. Any opposition
to the Motion was required to have been filed and served at least nine court
days prior to the hearing pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure,
Section 1005(b).  
 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
           “Any party may obtain discovery . . . by
inspecting, copying, testing, or sampling documents, tangible things, land or
other property, and electronically stored information in the possession,
custody, or control of any other party to the action.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.010(a).)  Where a party fails to
timely respond to demand for inspection, copying, testing or sampling “[t]he
party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege
or on the protection for work product.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(a).) Code
Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(b) provides that “[t]he party making the demand may move
for an order compelling response to the demand.” 
          Code Civ.
Proc. § 2023.010(d) provides that a misuse of the discovery process is
“[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an authorized method of discovery.” Code
Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(h) states that a misuse of the discovery process includes
“[m]aking or opposing, unsuccessfully and without substantial justification, a
motion to compel or limit discovery.”   A
court has discretion to “impose a monetary sanction against a party engaging in
the misuse of the discovery process or any attorney advising such conduct” under
Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(a). A court has discretion to fix the amount of
reasonable monetary sanctions.  (Cornerstone
Realty Advisors, LLC v. Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th
771, 791.)
III.       
DISCUSSION
Defendant’s counsel, Alan Carnegie
(“Carnegie”), served Plaintiff’s counsel with Defendant’s Request for
Production of Documents, Set One on May 22, 2023. (Carnegie Decl., ¶ 5 and
Exhibit 1.) There has been no response from Plaintiff’s counsel to Defendant’s
Request for Production of Documents, Set One. (Id., ¶ 7.) 
Counsel declares that his hourly rate
is $450.00 per hour. (Id., ¶ 9.) Counsel declares that he spent 1 hour
attempting to contact Plaintiff’s counsel to inquire after the missing
production, 3 hours researching and drafting the Notice of Motion and Points
and Authorities, 0.9 hours drafting his declaration, and 0.3 hours preparing
the proposed order as to the Motion. (Id.) 1.5 hours of time is
anticipated reviewing Plaintiff’s opposition and drafting a reply brief. (Id.)
Defendant requests monetary sanctions in the total amount of $3,015.00, which
represents 6.7 hours of work at an hourly rate of $450.00 per hour. (Id.)

Based on the declaration of counsel,
Plaintiff has failed to provide discovery responses. The Court therefore finds
it appropriate to compel Plaintiff’s responses to Defendant’s Request for
Production of Documents, Set One and the Court GRANTS the Motion. Plaintiff is
ordered to provide verified, complete, and code-complaint responses, without
objections, to such discovery within 30 days of notice of this order. 
As to monetary sanctions, the Court
exercises its discretion and GRANTS IN PART Defendant’s request for monetary
sanctions against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel, The Barnes Firm, in the
reasonable amount of $1350.00. Such amount represents three hours of total work
on the Motion at the rate of $450.00 per hour. The Court reduces the hours
given the simplicity of the Motion and the fact that the Motion is unopposed.
Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel, The Barnes Firm, are ordered to pay monetary
sanctions in the amount of $1350.00, jointly and severally, to Defendant’s
counsel within 30 days of notice of this order. 
 
IV.     CONCLUSION
The Motion is GRANTED as it is
unopposed. (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.)  
Plaintiff is ordered to serve complete,
verified, and code-compliant responses, without objections, to Set One of
Defendant’s Request for Production of Documents within 30 days of notice of
this order. 
Defendant’s request for monetary
sanctions is GRANTED IN PART. Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel, The Barnes
Firm, are ordered to pay monetary sanctions to Defendant’s counsel, Alan J.
Carnegie of Law Offices of Alan J. Carnegie, in the total amount of $1350.00,
jointly and severally, within 30 days of notice of this order.   
Moving party is ordered to give notice
of this ruling. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 15th day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 


