 Case Number:  21STCV18032    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



ROBERT TEROGANESYAN, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
OVI LALO,
   and DOES 1-50,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  21STV18032
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT OVI LALO’s MOTION TO CONTINUE TRIAL 
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.

November
   15, 2023



 
I.           
Introduction 
On May 13, 2021, Plaintiff Robert Teroganesyan
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Ovi Lalo (“Defendant”) and
Does 1-50, alleging causes of action for motor vehicle and general negligence. 
On August 18, 2023, Defendant filed a motion to
continue trial. On October 24, 2023, the Court granted Defendant’s Ex Parte
Application to Continue Trial. (Notice of Ruling 10/24/23.)
The
motion is unopposed. 
II.         
Legal
Standard
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1332,
subdivision (c) states that although disfavored, the trial date may be
continued for “good cause,” which includes (without limitation): (1)
unavailability of trial counsel or witnesses due to “death, illness, or other
excusable circumstances”; (2) the addition of a new party depriving the new
party (or other parties) from conducting discovery and preparing for trial; (3)
“excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other material
evidence despite diligent efforts”; or (4) “[a] significant, unanticipated
change in the status of the case” preventing it from being ready for trial.
(Id., Rule 3.1332(c).) 
Other relevant considerations may
include: “(1) The proximity of the trial date; [¶] (2) Whether there was any
previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to any party;
[¶] (3) The length of the continuance requested; [¶] (4) The availability of
alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the motion or
application for a continuance; [¶] (5) The prejudice that parties or witnesses
will suffer as a result of the continuance; [¶] (6) If the case is entitled to
a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that status and whether the need
for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid delay; [¶] (7) The court's calendar and the impact of
granting a continuance on other pending trials; [¶] (8) Whether trial counsel
is engaged in another trial; [¶] (9) Whether all parties have stipulated to a
continuance; [¶] (10) Whether the interests of justice are best served by a
continuance, by the trial of the matter, or by imposing conditions on the
continuance; and [¶] (11) Any other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair
determination of the motion or application.” (Id., Rule 3.1332(d).) 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2024.050
allows a court to grant leave to complete discovery proceedings. In doing so, a
court shall consider matters relevant to the leave requested, including, but
not limited to: (1) the necessity of the discovery, (2) the diligence in
seeking the discovery or discovery motion, (3) the likelihood of interference
with the trial calendar or prejudice to a party, and (4) the length of time
that has elapsed between previous trial dates. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2024.050.)
III.       
Discussion
          The parties
have stipulated to continue trial from December 11, 2023, to April 8, 2024, or
the next available date on the Court’s calendar, and requests that all
discovery and motion cut-off dates be based upon the new trial date. (Champ
Decl., Ex. 1.) Defendant argues good cause exists because the parties need
additional time to retain experts, conduct percipient witness discovery,
conduct expert discovery, and to prepare for trial. Furthermore, the parties
believe mediation could resolve the matter. Defendant’s counsel is aware of two
prior continuances.
          The Court
finds there is good cause for the requested continuance based on the parties’
need to complete discovery. Furthermore, Defendant provides the stipulation to
continue trial signed by both parties and no opposition is filed, so no party
would be prejudiced by a trial continuance. (Champ Decl., Ex. 1.) Rather,
Defendant would suffer prejudice if he were not afforded sufficient time to prepare
for trial on this matter. Thus, the motion is granted. Trial is continued to
April 8, 2024. 
 
IV.        
Conclusion

Defendants’ motion to continue trial is
GRANTED. Trial is continued to April 8, 2024. Discovery and motions cutoff
dates are to track the new trial date.
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
 
 
    Dated this 15th day of November,
2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 