 Case Number:  21STCV45686    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



JUAN PABLO GARCIA, A MINOR BY AND THROUGH HIS GUARDIAN AD
   LITEM, CLARA CONSUELO ZARAGOZA VELAZQUEZ, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
MONESHA
   NICOLE CLAYTON, and DOES 1-25,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE NO.:  21STCV45686
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF JUAN PABLO GARCIA’s MOTION TO CONINUE ACTION BY
  PLAINTIFF’s SUCCESSOR IN INTEREST
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.

November
   15, 2023



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION 
On December 16, 2021, Plaintiff Juan Pablo Garcia
(“Plaintiff”), a minor by and through his Guardian Ad Litem, Clara Consuelo
Zaragoza Velazquez, filed a complaint against Defendants Monesha Nicole Clayton
(“Defendant”) and Does 1-25, alleging causes of action for general negligence
and motor vehicle. 
On August 28, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant
motion to continue the pending action by substituting Clara Consuelo Zaragoza
Velazquez as successor in interest to deceased Plaintiff. No opposition is
filed. 
On October 11, 2023, the Court continued the motion
to continue pending action by successor in interest to decedent, Plaintiff Juan
Pablo Garcia from 10/20/2023 to 11/15/2023 at 01:30 PM in Department 27 at
Spring Street Courthouse. (10/11/23 Minute Order.) 
II.         
Legal Standard
“On motion after the death of a person
who commenced an action or proceeding, the court shall allow a pending action
or proceeding that does not abate to be continued by the decedent’s personal
representative or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in interest.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §¿377.31.) 
Code of Civil Procedure § 377.32
provides the following: 
(a)      The person who seeks to commence an action
or proceeding or to continue a pending action or proceeding as the decedent’s
successor in interest under this article, shall execute and file an affidavit
or a declaration under penalty of perjury under the laws of this state stating
all of the following:
(1)      The
decedent’s name. 
(2)      The
date and place of the decedent’s death. 
(3)      “No
proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the decedent’s
estate.” 
(4)      If
the decedent’s estate was administered, a copy of the final order showing the
distribution of the decedent’s cause of action to the successor in interest. 
(5)      Either
of the following, as appropriate, with facts in support thereof: 
(A)     “The affiant or declarant is the decedent’s
successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of
Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent’s interest in the action or
proceeding.” 
(B)     “The affiant or declarant is authorized to
act on behalf of the decedent’s successor in interest (as defined in Section
377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure) with respect to the
decedent’s interest in the action or proceeding.” 
(6)      “No
other person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be
substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding.” 
(7)      “The
affiant or declarant affirms or declares under penalty of perjury under the
laws of the State of California that the foregoing is true and correct.” 
(b)      Where more than one person executes the
affidavit or declaration under this section, the statements required by
subdivision (a) shall be modified as appropriate to reflect that fact. 
(c)      A certified copy of the decedent’s death
certificate shall be attached to the affidavit or declaration.
III.       
Discussion
          Plaintiff
asks the Court to continue the pending action by substituting Clara Consuelo
Zaragoza Velazquez for Plaintiff in this matter because Plaintiff has died. The
Court finds that the Successor’s declaration complies with all the requirements
of Code section 377.32, subdivision (a). Therefore, the motion is granted. 
IV.        
Conclusion

The motion to continue pending action
by Plaintiff’s successor in interest is GRANTED.
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 
    Dated this 15th day of November, 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
 