 Case Number:  19STCV40596    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2023    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



THE ESTATE OF ANTONIO MAURICE WILSON WILLIAMS, etc., et
  al.,   
                   Plaintiffs,
          vs.
 
S&M
  VENTURES NO.1, LLC, etc., et al.,
 
                   Defendants.
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 19STCV40596
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFFS’ SECOND AMENDED COMPLAINT


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
November
  15, 2023



 
MOVING PARTIES: Defendants S&M Ventures No. 1, LLC dba
Vermont Square and Charles Peter Scurich (“Defendants”)   
RESPONDING PARTY: N/A  
 
 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This action arises from a shooting that
occurred on November 14, 2017. On November 12, 2019, Plaintiffs The Estate of
Antonio Maurice Wilson Williams, by and through its successor in interest and
heirs at law, K.W., a minor and as successor in interest to Antonio Maurice
Wilson Williams, by and through his guardian ad litem Raven Nelson, and
Lotanaka Nicole Smiley Williams (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint
against Defendants S&M Ventures No.1, LLC dba Vermont Square, Charles Peter
Scurich, and Does 1 through 10, alleging causes of action for: (1) premises
liability; (2) negligence; (3) negligence per se; (4) negligent
infliction of emotional distress; (5) wrongful death; and (6) survivor action. 
On July 7, 2021, Defendants S&M
Ventures No.1, LLC dba Vermont Square and Charles Peter Scurich (“Defendants”)
filed a demurrer and motion to strike. 
Prior to the hearing on the demurrer
and motion to strike, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”). 
On January 19, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
an Amendment to Complaint identifying Noel Yaziji (“Yaziji”) as Doe 1. 
On May 25, 2023, Defendant Yaziji filed
a demurrer to the FAC as well as a motion to strike. 
On July 7, 2023, the Court issued an
order sustaining the demurrer of Defendant Yaziji to the FAC with 15 days leave
to amend. The Court deemed the motion to strike moot. 
The Operative Second Amended Complaint
          On July 25,
2023, Plaintiffs filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”) against
Defendants alleging causes of action for: (1) premises liability; (2)
negligence; (3) wrongful death; and (4) survivor action. The SAC does not name
Defendant Yaziji as a defendant.
The Instant Motion
          On October
12, 2023, Defendants filed and served a motion (the “Motion”) for an order
striking improper portions of the SAC.[1]
Defendants seek to strike all references to attorney’s fees from the SAC
including Paragraph 6 from the prayer for relief which provides “[f]or
reasonable attorney’s fees and costs as provided by law.” 
          The Motion is
brought on the grounds that: (1) the Court has authority to strike portions of
the SAC; and (2) Plaintiffs are not entitled to recover attorney’s fees. 
          On November
2, 2023, Plaintiffs filed and served a Statement of Non-Opposition to the
Motion indicating that they “will not oppose Defendants’ Motion to Strike
Plaintiffs’ request for attorney’s fees from [the] Second Amended Complaint.”
(Statement of Non-Opposition at 2:1-3.) 
The Motion is unopposed. Any opposition
to the Motion was required to have been filed and served at least nine court
days prior to the hearing pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure,
Section 1005(b).  
II.         
MEET
AND CONFER
          The meet and
confer requirement has been met pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5. 
III.       
LEGAL
STANDARD
           “Any party, within the time allowed to respond
to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any
part thereof.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 435(b)(1).) A court may “[s]trike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ.
Proc. § 436(a).)  A court may “[s]trike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc. §
436(b).) 
IV.        
DISCUSSION
“California follows the American rule,
under which each party to a lawsuit must pay its own attorney fees unless a
contract or statute or other law authorizes a fee award.” (Douglas E.
Barnhart, Inc. v. CMC Fabricators, Inc. (2012) 211 Cal.App.4th 230, 237.) 
Here, the SAC does not allege an
entitlement to attorney’s fees by contract, statute, or other law. Moreover,
given that the Motion is unopposed, there is an inference that it has merit. (Sexton
v. Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) 
 
Accordingly, the Court GRANTS the
Motion. 
 
V.     CONCLUSION
The Motion is GRANTED.
Moving parties are ordered to give
notice of this ruling. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
      Dated this 15th day of November 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 


