  Case Number:  20STCV29543    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:     September
27, 2023                           TRIAL
DATE:  October 17, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                                Judi Hughes v. Alvin S. Friedman
 
CASE NO.:                 20STCV29543
 





















 
MOTION
FOR LEAVE TO FILE FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT



 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant/Cross-Complainant
City of Long Beach
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Plaintiff Edwin
Sargenti
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION

 
On August 5, 2020, Plaintiff, Judi Hughes, initiated this
action against Defendant, Alvin S. Friedman, for injuries arising from a dog bite.  Plaintiff initially sought punitive damages.
 
On October 16, 2020, Defendant filed a motion to strike
punitive damages from the Complaint.  The
Court granted Defendant’s motion on January 25, 2021, stating Plaintiff did not
allege specific facts in the Complaint showing Defendant’s actual knowledge of
Plaintiff’s dog’s  propensity to bite and
attack.  The Court further noted
Plaintiff could seek leave to amend in the future if she determined through
discovery additional facts that could state a prima facie case for punitive
damages.
 
On August 18, 2023, Plaintiff filed this motion for leave to
file an amended complaint to  add punitive
damages.  Defendant opposes and Plaintiff
replies.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
 
            The court
may, in its discretion and after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading, including adding or
striking out the name of any party, or correcting a mistake in the name of a
party, or a mistake in any other respect.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd.
(a)(1).)¿ “Public policy dictates that leave to amend be liberally granted.”¿ (Centex
Homes v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 23,
32.)¿ “Although courts are bound to apply a policy of great liberality in
permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the proceedings, up to
and including trial . . . this policy should be applied only ‘where no prejudice
is shown to the adverse party.’¿ [Citation].¿ A different result is indicated
‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the opposing party’ is
shown.¿ [Citation.]” ¿(Magpali v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 48
Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)¿ 
 
            A motion to
amend a pleading must include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended
pleading which must be serially numbered to differentiate it from previous
pleadings or amendments and must state what allegations in the previous
pleading are proposed to be deleted or added, if any, and where, by page,
paragraph, and line number, the allegations are located. (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1324, subd. (a).)¿ The motion shall also be accompanied by a declaration
attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and
proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered,
and why the request for amendment was not made earlier.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 1.324, subd. (b).)¿ 
 
            In ruling
on a motion for leave to amend a pleading, the court does not consider the
merits of the proposed amendment, because “the preferable practice would be to
permit the amendment and allow the parties to test its legal sufficiency by
demurrer, motion for judgment on the pleadings or other appropriate
proceedings.”¿ (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989) 213
Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)¿ While the court may deny leave to amend where the
proposed amendment is insufficient to state a valid cause of action or defense,
such denial is most appropriate where the insufficiency cannot be cured by
further amendment—i.e., where the statute of limitations has expired or the
insufficiency is established by controlling caselaw. (California Casualty
Gen. Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1985) 173 Cal.App.3d 274, 280-281,
disapproved on other grounds in Kransco v. American Empire Surplus Lines
Ins. Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 390.)¿ 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
This motion is moot.  Plaintiff
seeks leave to file the proposed First Amended Complaint to reassert a request
for punitive damages and to add new factual allegations supporting the
request.  Defendant represents that he
will file another motion to strike the punitive damages request if Plaintiff is
granted leave to amend her complaint.  With trial less than 30 days away, Defendant
argues the trial date must be continued to allow Defendant time to file a
motion to strike and to conduct further discovery.[1]  In reply, Plaintiff states that if the Court
is inclined to grant the motion and continue the trial, Plaintiff withdraws her
motion for leave to amend.  The Court is
inclined to continue the trial date to allow Defendant to file a motion to
strike the proposed first amended complaint. 
As such, this motion is moot.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION 
 
            The motion
for leave to file an amended complaint is denied as moot.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   September 27,
2023                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 
 


