 Case Number:  22STCV13368    Hearing Date:   September 27, 2023    Dept:  27 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 27
 
 
HEARING DATE:      September 27, 2023                                   TRIAL
DATE:  October 19, 2023
                                                           
CASE:                                Charles Arnold Thomas v. HK Logistics Corporation, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV13368
 





















 
MOTION
TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL



 
MOVING PARTY:               Ira N.
Katz, Law Offices of Ira N. Katz
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     No opposition
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
On August 1, 2023, Ira N. Katz, counsel for Defendants, HK
Logistics Corporation, HK Trans LLC, and Miguel Angel Roque, filed these Motions
to be Relieved as Counsel.  
 
The Motion to be Relieved as Counsel for HK Logistics
Corporation was heard on September 6, 2023. 
The Court could not grant the Motion because Counsel had not indicated
at Item 6 of the proposed order (Form MC-053) the client’s current or last known
address and telephone number.  Counsel
was directed to file an amended proposed order and to review the Motions to be
Relieved as Counsel for HK Trans LLC and Miguel Angel Roque for similar
defects.
 
On September 6, 2023, Counsel filed amended proposed orders
for all three Motions.  
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARDS 
 
California Rule of Court rule 3.1362 (Motion to Be Relieved
as Counsel) requires (1) notice of motion and motion to be directed to the
client (made on the Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel—Civil
form (MC-051)); (2) a declaration stating in general terms and without
compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1) (made on the Declaration
in Support of Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as Counsel—Civil form (MC-052));
(3) service of the notice of motion and motion and declaration on all other
parties who have appeared in the case; and (4) the proposed order relieving
counsel (prepared on the Order Granting Attorney's Motion to Be Relieved as
Counsel—Civil form (MC-053)). 
 
The court has discretion to allow an attorney to withdraw,
and such a motion should be granted provided that there is no prejudice to the
client, and it does not disrupt the orderly process of justice.  (See Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.)  
 
III.       DISCUSSION 
 
Ira N. Katz seeks to be relieved as counsel of record for Defendants
for the following reasons: “Communications between the attorney and his client
have broken down.  Often, attempts at
communication by attorney fail to be answered and messages left for client are
not returned in a timely manner, if at all.  In consequence, a personality clash has arisen
between attorney and client which make it unreasonably difficult for the
attorney to carry out his employment effectively [CRPC 3-700 (C)(1)(d) (f)).  This clash is primarily based upon a
difference in opinion between attorney and client as to the legal strategy
which should be followed. Attorney believes client no longer has faith in
attorney’s legal opinions and, otherwise, client does not trust that attorney
is acting in client’s best interest.  Accordingly, attorney’s capacity to properly
litigate and try the matter is jeopardized by client’s decision.”  (Forms MC-052.)   
 
Absent a showing of resulting prejudice, an attorney’s
request for withdrawal should be granted.  (People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d
398, 406.).  
 
Counsel has cured the defect for the Motion to be Relieved
as Counsel for HK Logistics Corporation. 
That Motion, and the Motions to be Relieved as Counsel for HK Trans LLC
and Miguel Angel Roque comply with California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.  
 
Accordingly, the Motions are GRANTED. 
 
IV.       CONCLUSION         
 
            The
Motions are granted and effective upon the filing of the proof of service of these
signed orders upon the Defendants.
 
Counsel to give notice. 

 
Dated:   September 27,
2023                                                   ___________________________________
                                                                                    Kerry
Bensinger
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 
            Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on
the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative
and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless
appear at the hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive
emails from the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion,
adopt the tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar. 
 