  Case Number:  23STCV12253    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


July 9, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23STCV12253




MOTIONS


Demurrer to First Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant Kelly Furie




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Russell Furie



 
MOTION
Plaintiff Russell
Furie (“Plaintiff”) and Defendant Kelly Furie (“Defendant”) were married.  The Furie v. Furie (Super. Ct. L.A.
County, 2009, No. PD048281) (“Furie v. Furie”) case culminated in the
parties’ divorce.  In this action, Plaintiff
has sued Defendant for financial abuse and neglect of a dependent adult and
breach of fiduciary duty.  Defendant
demurs to Plaintiff’s first amended complaint, and Plaintiff opposes the motion.  
ANALYSIS
“[A] demurrer
tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis
v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In ruling on a
demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the allegations of the
complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.) 
“This rule of liberal construction means that the reviewing court draws
inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the defendant.”  (Perez v.
Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
Defendant contends
this court lacks jurisdiction over Plaintiff’s claims.  
In the instant action,
Plaintiff alleges he has been disabled and entitled to benefits from the Social
Security Administration since 2003, and Defendant has been Plaintiff’s
representative payee for purposes of Social Security Administration (“SSA”) benefits
and their children’s SSA representative payee for derivative payments (First
Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 13-15); when Defendant filed for divorce in 2009,
Defendant did not inform Plaintiff his child support obligations would entitle
Plaintiff to collateral benefits in the form of child support credits that
would reduce the amount Plaintiff otherwise owed in child support (id., ¶
24); in November, 2018, Plaintiff became aware of his right to have child
support credits linked to the SSA derivative payments and Defendant had
enriched herself at his expense by not having done so (id., ¶ 31); and the
court in Furie v. Furie ruled Defendant’s actions were improper and
sanctioned Defendant (id., ¶ 32.) 

In opposing
Defendant’s motion, Plaintiff cites Nicholson v. Fazeli (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th
1091, which is not on point.  In that
case, the Court of Appeal ruled the plaintiff could maintain a malicious
prosecution action based on the trust defendant’s cross-complaint.  While the cross-complaint was joined in a
dissolution proceeding, the cross-complaint did not involve family law issues and
was simply a civil action for possession of personal property.  (Id., at pp. 1096-1098.)  In the instant case, Plaintiff’s claims stem
directly from child support obligations, unlike the claims at issue in Nicholson
v. Fazeli, which existed independently of the dissolution proceedings.  
Defendant also
argues collateral estoppel bars Plaintiff’s claims.  “‘Res judicata’ describes the preclusive
effect of a final judgment on the merits.  Res judicata, or claim preclusion, prevents
relitigation of the same cause of action in a second suit between the same
parties or parties in privity with them.  Collateral estoppel, or issue preclusion,
‘precludes relitigation of issues argued and decided in prior
proceedings.’  [Citation]  Under the doctrine of res judicata, if a
plaintiff prevails in an action, the cause is merged into the judgment and may
not be asserted in a subsequent lawsuit; a judgment for the defendant serves as
a bar to further litigation of the same cause of action.”  (Mycogen Corp. v. Monsanto Co. (2002)
28 Cal.4th 888, 896-897.)  As set forth
above, Plaintiff alleges the court in Furie v. Furie ruled Defendant’s
actions were improper and sanctioned Defendant. 
As such, this court cannot relitigate Defendant’s alleged misconduct
regarding Plaintiff’s child support allegations.
Plaintiff’s
reliance on Boblitt v. Boblitt (2010) 190 Cal.App.4th 603 in opposition
is also misplaced.  In that case, the
Court of Appeal held a prior dissolution action did not bar a spouse’s
subsequent tort action against her former spouse for domestic violence, even
though she had asserted domestic violence as grounds for spousal support.  (Id., at p. 606.)  The court reasoned the tort action involved
the primary right to be free from personal injury, whereas the dissolution
action involved the primary right to receive spousal support.  (Id., at p. 612.)  In the instant case, Plaintiff’s claims
involve one primary right: the right to the correct determination of child
support obligations.  Plaintiff’s claims
in this action do not involve a separate primary right.  That Plaintiff alleges the facts could also
constitute elder abuse does not change the primary right at issue.
The court
concludes Neal v. Superior Court (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 22, 25-26 (Neal)
is more in line with the facts and circumstances of this case.  In Neal, the husband and wife in a
family matter had reached a stipulated agreement concerning how much the
husband owed in the family law proceeding. 
(Id., at p. 24.) When the wife filed a motion to set aside the
stipulation because the husband had not paid anything, the husband filed a
separate civil action against the wife and a collection agency.  (Ibid.)  In ruling on the wife’s demurrer to the
husband’s complaint, the Court of Appeal held the husband was not entitled to
pursue the civil action because the husband’s claims were based on the wife’s
alleged failure to comply with the terms of the family law judgment, statements
the wife made in the family law proceedings, and a dispute in the family law
case concerning whether the husband had paid what he was obligated to pay based
on the judgment in the family law matter. 
(Id., at p. 26.)  The court
reasoned the husband’s civil action was “a family law OSC with civil headings.”  (Ibid.)  The court noted, “family law cases should not
be allowed to spill over into civil law . . . . Almost all events in family law
litigation can be reframed as civil law actions if a litigant wants to be
creative with various causes of action.” 
(Id., at p. 25.)  
The same logic applies
to the instant case - - claims stemming from a family law case belong in family
law court, even if the claims could be pleaded as civil causes of action.  In particular, like the claims in Neal,
Plaintiff’s allegations in this matter all stem from Defendant’s alleged
misconduct in the family law case regarding Plaintiff’s child support
obligations.  As such, this case belongs
in a family law court.[1]
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendant’s
demurrer to Plaintiff’s first amended complaint is sustained without leave to
amend.  
Defendant is ordered
to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service concerning it.


