 Case Number:  BC452244    Hearing Date:   July 9, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


July 9, 2024




CASE NUMBER


BC452244




MOTION


Motions to Compel Compliance with Subpoenas




MOVING PARTY


Assignee Adam
  Harari




OPPOSING PARTIES


Judgment Debtor Dalia Nosrati



 
MOTION
In two separate motions,
assignee Adam Harari (“Harari”) moves to compel compliance with subpoenas
Harari purportedly served on Bank of America, N.A. and Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.
(“Deponents”).  Judgment Debtor Dalia
Nosrati (“Nosrati”) responds to the motions. 
ANALYSIS
Code of Civil
Procedure section 1987.1 provides, “If a subpoena requires the attendance of a
witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored
information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue
therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably
made by [a party or a witness] . . . may make an order . . . directing
compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare,
including protective orders.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1987.1.)
Assignee did not personally
serve the motions on Deponents, as required. 
(See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1346 [“A written notice and all moving papers
supporting a motion to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel
production of a document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be
personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees
to accept service by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic
service address specified on the deposition record”].)  Accordingly, the motions are denied.  
Further, the
parties have apparently agreed Deponents are to produce responsive documents
subject to the protective order this court entered in its July 1, 2024 order.  As such, the motions are moot and are denied
on that basis as well.  
Nosrati is to
notify Deponents of the withdrawal of objections to the subpoenas within 30
days.
Harari is to give
notice of this order and file proof of service of same.
 