  Case Number:  20STCV48320    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OF
DEFENDANT NAGESWARA R. GUNTUPALLI, M.D is GRANTED, because Plaintiff
did not meet his evidentiary burden as no expert spoke to whether a medical
professional in Dr. Guntupalli’s like position would have suspected child
abuse. 
 
Background[1]
 
This case pertains to an alleged assault and battery.
Plaintiff Joshua Acosta (“Plaintiff”) alleges the following against Defendants
AURORA CHARTER OAK LOS ANGELES, LLC; NAGESWARA R. GUNTUPALLI, MD; WILLIAM M.
GILLESPIE, MD, SIGNATURE HEALTHCARE SERVICES, LLC, SIGNATURE HEALTHCARE
MANAGEMENT Inc; AURORA AURORA HEALTH CARE, Inc.: On or about August 7, 2018,
when Plaintiff was trying to speak to his mother on the phone at the hospital,
three hospital workers attacked him. (TAC p. 7, 8:9-10.)[2]
They beat him all over his body, slammed his head onto the floor and strangled
him. As a result of being strangled for so long, Plaintiff suffered petechial
hemorrhaging and lost consciousness. After Plaintiff regained consciousness, he
was dragged into a room that looked like a jail cell. (pp. 7-8.) The next day,
when Plaintiff’s mother, Veronica Gallegos (“Plaintiff’s Mother”), went to
visit her son, she inquired about the severe bleeding in his eyes and bodily
bruising. She was told that it was an eye infection. As a result of the attack,
Plaintiff has suffered neurological damage and the deterioration of his mental
health.  
 
On January 4, 2021, Plaintiff Joshua Acosta and Veronica
Gallegos (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed their First Amended Complaint
against Defendants for the following fourteen (14) causes of action: 1.    
Statutory Claim Under CANRA; 2.    
Claim for Civil Conspiracy; 3.    
Negligent Failure to Render Aid; 4.    
Statutory Claim Under the Banes Act; 5.    
Statutory Claim Under the Ralph Act; 6.    
Negligent Supervision, Retention, and Management; 7.    
Battery; 8.    
Fraud by Intentional Misrepresentation; 9.    
Fraud by Intentional Concealment; 10.   Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress; 11.  Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress; 12.  Premises
Liability; 13.  Non-Delegable
Duty Doctrine; and 14.  Peculiar
Risk Doctrine
 
On January 27, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed their amended third amended complaint (TAC), which added a fifteenth COA
for ‘breach of duties established by California Penal Code section 273(d):
Negligence Per Se’ asserted against Doe Defendants.
 
On July 27, 2023, Dr. Guntupalli
filed the instant MSJ was filed. 
 
On November 28, 2023, Plaintiff
filed his opposition to the MSJ.  
 
On February 1, 2024, Dr.
Guntupalli filed a reply. That same day, Plaintiff filed an Objection to Defendant Nageswara R. Guntupalli's Reply
Evidence and Reply Separate Statement.
 
On February 5, 2024, Plaintiff
filed Objection to Defendant Nageswara R Guntupalli Objections
and 
Objection to Defendant Nageswara R. Guntupalli, MD's Reply, New Evidence,
Declaration of Kathleen McColgan, and the Records Submitted with the Motion.
Legal Standard
 
The law of summary judgment
provides courts “a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to
determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to
resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001)
25 Cal.4th 826, 843 (Aguilar).)  In reviewing a motion for
summary judgment, courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289,
294.) “The motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers
submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)   
 
A moving defendant bears the initial burden of production to
show that one or more elements of the cause of action cannot be established or
that there is a complete defense to the cause of action, at which point the
burden shifts to the plaintiff to make a prima facie showing of the
existence of a triable issue.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd.
(p)(2).) “The motion shall be supported by affidavits, declarations, admissions,
answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which judicial notice
shall or may be taken. The supporting papers shall include a separate statement
setting forth plainly and concisely all material facts that the moving party
contends are undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by
a reference to the supporting evidence. The failure to comply with this
requirement of a separate statement may in the court’s discretion constitute a
sufficient ground for denying the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (b)(1).) 
 
The opposing party may not rely on the mere allegations or
denials of the pleadings, but instead must set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue exists as to that cause of action or a defense
thereto.  (Aguilar, supra, at p.
849.) Specifically, “[t]he opposition, where appropriate, shall consist of
affidavits, declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions,
and matters of which judicial notice shall or may be taken.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (2).) 
 

Courts “liberally construe the
evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts
concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold
Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389; see also Hinesley, supra,
135 Cal.App.4th at p. 294 [The court must “view the evidence in the light most
favorable to the opposing party and accept all inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom.”].)  In determining whether the papers show that there is a
triable issue as to any material fact, the court shall consider all of the
evidence set forth in the moving papers, except that as to which objections
have been made and sustained, and all inferences reasonable deducible from such
evidence. (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176
Cal.App.3d 629, 639.)

 
Evidentiary Objections
 
Court need only rule on objections material to adjudication
of the motion. (See Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (2), subs. (q) [“In granting or denying a motion for summary
judgment or summary adjudication, the court need rule only on those objections
to evidence that it deems material to its disposition of the motion. Objections
to evidence that are not ruled on for purposes of the motion shall be preserved
for appellate review.”].)  
 
Where
relevant, the evidentiary objection will be discussed in the analysis.
Should the objection not be discussed, they are deemed preserved for appeal. 
 
Discussion
 
As the pleadings
frame the issues on a summary judgment motion, the court turns to the
allegations set forth against Dr. Guntupalli (“Defendant”), who worked
as a medical provider as a psychiatrist at the Aurora Charter Oak Hospital and
was one of Plaintiff’s treating providers. (TAC ¶1.) The only (remaining) COA asserted against
Defendant is the 1st COA for Statutory Claim Under CANRA, PC
§11161.5, PC §11165.7 And PC §11166.01(A): Breach Of Mandatory Duty (TAC p. 11).[3] In
turn, the relevant allegations that comprise the 1st COA are as
follows:
 
As least as of August 10, 2018,
Defendant NAGESWARA R. GUNTUPALLI, MD wrote, in relevant part, in a report on
file at the Aurora Charter Oak Hospital that "[t]he patient [Plaintiff
JOSHUA ACOSTA's] mother came and was worried about the patient's
subconjunctival hemorrhage." In the same report, Defendant NAGESWARA R.
GUNTUPALLI, MD wrote, in relevant part, "it is reported that someone was
holding [Plaintiff JOSHUA ACOSTA] too tight [and that may be] the reason why he
has the bleeding in the eyes." On August 10, 2018, Plaintiff JOSHUA ACOSTA
was still confined at the Aurora Charter Oak Hospital. Plaintiff VERONICA
GALLEGOS spoke to Defendant NAGESWARA R. GUNTUPALLI, MD, on or about August 10,
2018. During that conversation, Defendant NAGESWARA R. GUNTUPALLI, MD, never
disclosed to her that it had been "reported that someone was holding
[Plaintiff JOSHUA ACOSTA] too tight [and that may be] the reason why he has the
bleeding in the eyes." Additionally, Plaintiff VERONICA GALLEGOS spoke to
Defendant NAGESWARA R. GUNTUPALLI, MD, on or about August 11, 2018. During that
conversation, Defendant NAGESWARA R. GUNTUPALLI, MD, never disclosed to her
that it had been "reported that someone was holding [Plaintiff JOSHUA
ACOSTA] too tight [and that may be] the reason why he has the bleeding in the
eyes." Defendant NAGESWARA R. GUNTUPALLI, MD, never reported the
report of abuse of a minor to authorities. [] Defendant [] blatantly violated
his/her duty to make the mandated report. (TAC pp. 13-14, emphasis added.) 
 
1st COA for
Violation of Child Abuse and Neglect Reporting Act (CANRA)
 
California Penal Code sections
11164–11174.4, also known as CANRA, require certain mandated reporters,
including, but not limited to, physicians, psychiatrists, and psychologists, to
exercise vigilance in identifying and disclosing instances of abuse. (Cal. Pen.
Code, §§ 11164, 11165.7.) Specifically, Penal Code section 11166 provides:
 
(a) . . . a mandated reporter shall
make a report to an agency specified in Section 11165.9 whenever the mandated
reporter, in the mandated reporter's professional capacity or within the scope
of the mandated reporter's employment, has knowledge of or
observes a child whom the mandated reporter knows or reasonably
suspects has been the victim of child abuse or neglect. The mandated
reporter shall make an initial report by telephone to the agency immediately or
as soon as is practicably possible . . . . (1) For purposes of this article,
“reasonable suspicion” means that it is objectively reasonable for
a person to entertain a suspicion, based upon facts that could cause a
reasonable person in a like position, drawing, when appropriate, on
the person's training and experience, to suspect child abuse or
neglect. “Reasonable suspicion” does not require certainty that child
abuse or neglect has occurred nor does it require a specific medical indication
of child abuse or neglect; any “reasonable suspicion” is sufficient . . . .
(Penal Code §11166, emphasis and underline added.)[4] 
 
Thus, the issue presented is whether Dr. Guntupalli knew facts
from which a reasonable person in a like position would have
suspected that Plaintiff had been abused. 
 
For reasons to be discussed
below, the evidence—when read in the light most favorable to the Plaintiff—is
insufficient to refute the admissible evidence offered by Dr. Guntupalli. 
 
A.    
Dr. Guntupalli’s Evidentiary Burden
 
Defendant argues that, based upon
the objective facts known to Dr. Guntupalli during Plaintiff’s admission to
Aurora, no reasonable psychiatrist would have suspected child abuse. Defendant
submits the expert declaration of Dr. Joseph Sison. 
 
Re: Evidentiary Objections as to Dr. Sison’s Declaration,
Which Are Overruled in its Entirety. 
 
Preliminary, Plaintiff objects to
Dr. Sison’s declaration on multiple grounds. 
 
First, Plaintiff argues that Dr.
Sison’s resume is hearsay. Not so as Dr. Sison laid the foundation for his
curriculum vitae. 
 
Next, Plaintiff argues that the
police and hospital records are inadmissible hearsay. Not so. As noted by
Defendant in reply, the records (police reports and hospital records) are
submitted under the business records exception to the hearsay rule (Evidence
Code §1271) and Kathleen McColgan identifies each of the custodian of
records declarations. 
 
To the extent Plaintiff objects on
2/4/24 that Colgan’s declaration was filed “for the first time with Defendant’s
Reply,” that is not so. Colgan’s declaration, which authenticates Exhibit 1,
was attached to the motion (see Motion pp. 19-20). 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff
argues that the declaration Alicia Adams does not authenticate Olive View
hospital records. not so. (See Defendant’s Exhibit List p. 96 of 629 of PDF.)
To the extent that Plaintiff cites to People v. Turner (2020) 10 Cal.5th
786, 822-823 for the proposition that to lay the foundation for business
records, the person laying the foundation must link his description of the
office’s procedures to the preparation of the records at issue, Turner is
distinguishable on two important fronts. In Turner, the record at issue
was an autopsy report and it was a criminal case. (Id. at pp. 823-824 [“The foundational
showing here is notably thinner than we have encountered in upholding rulings
to admit other autopsy reports  .
. . while our treatment of hearsay has changed in light of evolving Supreme
Court jurisprudence [internal citation omitted] this change does not make it
appropriate in this case to uphold the admission of hearsay against a
criminal defendant.”], emphasis added.) 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff avers
that Chelsea Steven does not properly authenticate medical records from Queen
of the Valley hospital, it is unclear how so when her declaration meets the
requirements of Evidence Code section 1561. (See Defendant’s Exhibit List, Ex.
F, p. 414 of 629 of PDF.) To the extent that Plaintiff avers that the record
from Queen of the Valley is inadmissible because it is not accompanied by the
original subpoena and cites to Evidence Code section 1560, the statute provides
no such requirement. 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff
relies upon People v. Sanchez (2016) 63 Cal.4th 665 for his proposition
that medical records are “specific hearsay, and an expert is not allowed to
based his opinion on them,” (Opp. p. 6), absent a pincite to the case, the
court finds no such rule found in Sanchez. To the extent that Plaintiff
conclusively cites to People v Reyes, 12 Cal.3d 486, 503  (1974) and People v Young, 189
Cal.App.3d 891, 912 (1987) for a similar position, again no such language is
found in those cases.[5] 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff
argues that the medical records were “obtained illegally,” there is no
elucidation on how so. What is more, even if the subpoenas were improper,
Plaintiff has waived any objections by not filing a timely motion to quash at least five days
before the date of production of documents. (Code of Civ. Proc., § 1985.3.) 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff avers
that Dr. Sison is not qualified in biomechanics, physics, or 24 human factors
to be able to opine that Plaintiff's injuries were lawfully inflicted (Opp. p.
6), it is unclear as to the relevance of this argument. While Aurora Defendants
and Signature Defendants need have provided expert testimony that discussed what
happened and whether the injuries were lawfully inflicted, Dr.
Guntupalli’s expert need only opine as to what another psychiatrist would
have suspected. Put differently, while Plaintiff avers that an expert was
required to attest as to the cause of Plaintiff’s problem (Opp. p.
7:4-11), that is there is no causation requirement in CANRA. (See
also generally Reply pp. 7-8.) 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff
argues Dr. Sison’s opinion should be disregarded because it is not stated in
the Separate Statement, the facts he relied upon were stated in the SS. Even if
there were defects in the SS, the court exercises its discretion to overlook
the defects as the SS was overall compliant with statutory requirements. (See Beltran v. Hard Rock Hotel Licensing, Inc. (Cal. Ct. App., Dec. 5, 2023, No. G062736)
2023 WL 8430581
[discussion on separate statements].)
 
To the extent that Plaintiff argues Dr. Sison’s declaration
should be inadmissible because 
“Defendant unreasonably failed to allow Plaintiff to take the deposition of Dr.
Sison” (Opp. p. 18:16-18), Plaintiff’s Counsel did take Dr. Sison’s
deposition. To the extent that Plaintiff argues that Defense Counsel’s conduct
“was the worst that the undersigned has ever witness” with Defense Counsel’s
“loud tone, histrionic conduct, constant interruption, and rudeness” (Opp. p.
18), a review of the deposition transcript shows otherwise. (See Plaintiff’s
Exhibit list, Ex. U, starting at p. 15 of 64 of PDF.) Counsel Brandmeyer was
merely making objections to limit the questions to the court’s very specific
order which limited the scope of questions to Dr. Sison’s opinions. 
 
Lastly, Plaintiff argues Dr.
Sison's opinions should be disregarded “because he has an inherent bias (that
he concealed by omission) in that he works for defendant Signature Healthcare
Services, LLC, the moving party's employer and a co-defendant in this action,”
(Opp. p. 8.) Dr. Sison states that his employer is Sacramento Behavioral
Healthcare. According to Plaintiff’s Counsel, a filing by Sacramento Behavioral
Healthcare Hospital, LLC, Defendant Signature Healthcare Services, LLC, owns
the Sacramento Behavioral Healthcare hospital. A website page of the
Sacramento Behavioral Healthcare hospital also states that it is owned by
Defendant Signature Healthcare Services. However, as noted by Defendant in
Reply, Plaintiff offers no evidence that Dr. Guntupalli works for
Signature Healthcare Systems, LLC. 
 
 
All in all, as Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections lack
merit, they are OVERRULED [but see ‘Dr Sison’s Employment’ section,
infra]. 
 
Dr. Sison specializes in
Child/Adolescent Psychiatry. (Sison Decl., ¶1.) The materials Dr. Sison reviewed did not include any
interviews with Does 1-4. Sison’s declaration explains the following: 
 
-       
On August 6,
2018, Plaintiff was transferred to Olive View Hospital for suicidal and
homicidal ideations. 
-       
On August 7,
2018 at 17:45, Plaintiff was admitted to Aurora Charter Oak.
-       
On August 7,
2018 at 20:30, Plaintiff began yelling on the phone with this mother
-       
On August 7, 2018 at
21:30, Dr. W. Gillispi ordered Haldol,
Ativan, and Benadryl for severe agitation and psychosis. 
 
Importantly, while Plaintiff
disclosed the incident to his mother; he did not tell anyone, other than his
attorney or mother about the incident. (Sison Decl., p. 6, citing Exhibit
G, p. 491-492 of 629 of PDF [“Q: Did you tell anyone, other than your attorney about the incident,
other than your mother? A: No.”].) 
 
1.    
On August 8, 2018, Dr. Guntupalli dictated a
Psychiatric Evaluation pertaining to Plaintiff Acosta on the morning of August
8, 2018. The history was obtained from the patient and reviewing the admission
papers. There is no reference by the plaintiff to any beating he claims
to have sustained upon admission the night before. 
2.    
On the morning of August 8, 2018, Plaintiff underwent another
evaluation by another physician; there is no reference to medical
issues or problems and no reference to any beating the plaintiff claims
to have sustained upon admission the night before. (Exhibit E, pages 21-23).
3.    
In the afternoon on August 8, 2018, Plaintiff
attended a meeting regarding setting boundaries in relationships; There is no
reference in this note of any beating that plaintiff claims occurred the
night before. 
4.    
On August 8, 2019 at 14:09 (after the meeting
above), Plaintiff was assessed regarding his prior being on 1 on 1 care; it was
then denoted that he no longer needed 1:1; no reference in this note of any
beating that plaintiff claims occurred the night before. 
5.    
On August 8, 2018, shortly after the 1st
meeting, Plaintiff attended another meeting about boundaries; There is no
reference in this note of any beating that plaintiff claims occurred the
night before. 
6.    
On August 8, 2018, the case manager’s notes also
did not reference any beating that plaintiff claims occurred the night
before. 
7.    
On August 9, 2018, Dr. Guntupalli saw Plaintiff;
Plaintiff did not mention any thing about any beating that he claims to
have sustained upon admission the evening of August 7, 2018.
8.    
On August 9, 2018, Plaintiff was admitted by a
doctor who assessed bilateral subconjunctival hemorrhage; Plaintiff did not
mention any thing about any beating. 
9.    
On August 9, 2018, the following was noted at
19:00: Dr. Guntupalli was notified, he was aware of the subconjunctival
hemorrhage and though he feels emergency services are not necessary, he said to
call the medical doctor, Dr. Solomon. Dr. Solomon was notified and gave order
to send Joshua to ER for further evaluation. 
10.  On
August 9, 2018 at 23:15, Plaintiff was seen in the Emergency Department of
Queen of the Valley Hospital where “Patient says he was being belligerent on
Wednesday when he was placed on a 52-85. Patient states he was fighting
and straining and that is when they notice the redness to his eyes.” In
the same note, it was noted that “physical abuse/neglect was not suspected.” 
11.  On
August 10, 2018, Dr. Guntupalli spoke with Plaintiff’s mother who was concerned
about the subconjunctival hemorrhage and potential beating. According to the
complete report, Dr. Guntupalli spoke to staff and interviewed Plaintiff. Based
on his report, Plaintiff explained that whenever he gets upset or tends to get
anxious, he had subconjunctival hemorrhage, but on the other hand it is reported
that someone was holding him too tight that is the reason why he
has bleeding in the eyes.
 
Here, the court finds that Dr.
Sison’s declaration satisfies Defendant’s evidentiary burden. 
 
Dr. Sison concludes that the
objective facts known to Dr. Guntupalli during Plaintiff’s admission to Aurora
would not cause a reasonable psychiatrist to have entertained a suspicion to
suspect child abuse because (1) none of the medical physicians who treated
Plaintiff noted any suspicion that plaintiff Acosta may have been subjected to
child abuse or neglect and (2) the standard of care did not require Dr.
Guntupalli to report that plaintiff Acosta had been, or may have been, the
victim of child abuse as a result of being held tightly. In fact, other
medical professionals (i.e., those who also treated Plaintiff at Aurora
such that they were arguably in an identical position as Defendant) did
not make any reports of suspected child abuse. To the contrary, the
Emergency Department did not detect any suspected child abuse. 
 
Therefore, Defendant has demonstrated that during
Plaintiff’s admission to Aurora, no reasonable medical professional would have
suspected child abuse. 
 
The burden now shifts to Plaintiff. 
 
B.    
Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Burden
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff focuses on photographs depicting
injuries on Plaintiff Joshua Acosta that had been taken by his mother, and how
the photographs show strangulation. (Opp. pp. 13-15, citing Gallegos Affidavit;
Amber O. Malley; Avery J. Knapp, Jr, MD.) Dr. Sison did not review the
photos in forming his expert opinion. 
 
Re: DEFENDANT’S EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS TO THE
PHOTOGRAPHS: OVERRULED.

 
Preliminary, Defendant objects to the 18 photos on the
grounds of hearsay and authenticity. 
 
Hearsay: it is unclear how photographs are
hearsay; photographs are not “statements.” 
 
Authenticity: Next, Defendants argue that the photos
have somehow been altered because “[I]n each of the three sets of 18 photos the
color and vertical and/or horizontal lines are different, indicating the photos
have been altered and that we are presented with three sets of the 18 photos.”
However, Plaintiff’s mother, who authenticates the photos, avers that she has
“never re-touched those photos of altered them in any way.” (‘Affidavit of
Veronica Gallegos in Opposition to Defendant Nageswara R. Guntupalli’s Motion
for Summary Judgment,’ p. 2.) (Plus, a review of the photos does not illustrate
Defendant’s point of mismatching lines of sorts.) Therefore, as Plaintiff
(through Veronica) has properly authenticated the 18 photos, the photos are
admissible evidence. 
 
Notwithstanding
the foregoing, the evidence is irrelevant. 
 
Neither Dr. Avery J. Knapp, Jr (a neuroradiologist) nor
Amber O’Malley (forensic nurse examiner) state that under the objective facts
known to Dr. Guntupalli at the time a reasonable psychiatrist would have
suspected Joshua Acosta was the victim of child abuse or neglect. Instead, Dr.
Knapp opines that “the few scattered predominantly subcortical matter zone of
hyperintensities on T2 and FLAIR weighted imaging could have been caused by
trauma.” And Nurse O’Malley states in her declaration that plaintiff’s injuries
are consistent with strangulation by a forearm choke hold. However, injuries
are not an element of a CANRA violation, and a large portion of even the
opposition is dedicated to the injuries. (See Reply p. 12.) 

Therefore, absent an unequivocal statement that a reasonable person in
Defendant Guntupalli's position would have had reasonable suspicion of child
abuse before August 10, 2018, Knapp’s and O’Malley’s declarations do not raise
a triable issue of material fact, meaning Plaintiff did not satisfy his
evidentiary burden. 
 
To the extent that Plaintiff argues that a female nurse told
Plaintiff’s mother that the nurse was directed not to talk to Plaintiff’s
mother about what happened to Plaintiff, that is but a statement taken out of
context. For one, any statements made by a nurse would be inadmissible hearsay.
Second, a nurse may have been directed to not speak of the incident because of
patient confidentiality. Third, even assuming a nurse saw unlawful restraint
being applied to Plaintiff, there is no evidence that Dr. Guntupalli was
informed of such purported abuse. Plaintiff merely speculates that Dr.
Guntupalli was told by hospital workers. (See Opp. p. 12 [“That suggestion that
Defendant Guntupalli was never told by hospital workers about the attack simply
beggars belief. Defendant Guntupalli had been working at Aurora Charter Oak
hospital for years.”].) 
 
Conclusion
 
All in all, even when viewing “the evidence in the light
most favorable to the opposing party and accept all inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom,” the evidence points to one undisputed fact: there were no reports
of child abuse in Plaintiff’s medical charts for Dr. Guntupalli to suspect
otherwise. And to the extent that certain injuries should have made Dr.
Guntupalli suspicious, Plaintiff provides no evidence of what a medical
professional in a like position would have done. 
Based on the foregoing, Dr. Guntupalli is entitled to
summary judgment as a matter of law.[6]


