 Case Number:  23PSCV01791    Hearing Date:   February 7, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
PLAINTIFF’S NOTICE OF MOTION AND MOTION TO QUASH
DEPOSITION SUBPOENAS FOR THE PRODUCTION OF BUSINESS RECORDS is TBD at
the hearing because it is unclear of Plaintiff’s current claimed injuries. Regardless
of ruling, the court declines to impose sanctions as the parties’ met and
conferred in good faith. 
 
Background
 
This case arises from a motor vehicle accident that occurred
on April 8, 2022.[1] 
 
On June 15, 2023, Plaintiff JERRY ANDERSON filed suit
against Defendants SPENCER DUBAICH (driver) and ROGER D. DUBAICH (owner of the
vehicle) for (1) Motor Vehicle Negligence and (2) Negligence Per Se [Vehicle
Code, §21658(a)].
 
On August 28, 2023, Defendants filed their answer. 
 
On November 2, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to
quash.[2] 
 
On January 25, 2024, Defendants filed their opposition. 
 
Waiting for reply.
 
Legal Standard
 
The motion is brought pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
(CCP) §§1985.3(g) and 1987.1. (Motion p. 2.)
 
In turn, CCP section 1987.1 provides that, when a subpoena
requires the production of documents: 
 
[T]he court, upon motion reasonably
made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion
after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order
quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it
upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective
orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate
to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable
violations of the right of privacy of the person.
 
Discussion[3]
 
Plaintiff moves for an order
quashing, modifying or limiting the deposition subpoenas for production of
business records issued and served on Insurance Company, Tristar Risk
Management, and Intercare Insurance Services. (See Proposed Order filed on
11/2/23.)[4] 
 
Each of the subpoenas seek records
pertaining to prior claims (3/4/2009 and 10/13/2008) associated with
Plaintiff from over ten years prior to the current incident. The requests are
articulated as follows: 
 
a. Records (including digital
information) regarding Jerry Anderson, encompassing examinations, medical
history, diagnosis, treatment, testing, radiology, prognosis, prescriptions,
and billing (inclusive of payments, adjustments, reimbursements, and explanations
of benefit), albeit excluding documents pertaining to psychology and mental
issues; reproductive system; and sexually transmitted diseases. 
b. Duplicate original photographs,
whether stored on paper or digitally (regardless of who took the photographs)
of any vehicle involved in the aforementioned incident. 
c. Property damage estimates
(irrespective of the author) of any vehicle involved in the aforementioned
incident. 
d. Written, recorded or transcribed
statements of Jerry Anderson regarding the aforementioned incident. 
e. Law enforcement reports drafted in
connection with the aforementioned incident. (See Motion, Exs. A-C.) 
 
 
Both parties, focusing on the
medical issues not necessarily parts (b)-(e),[5]
cite to Britt v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 844 as it is a seminal
case regarding the patient-litigant exception to the physician-patient and
psychotherapist-patient privilege. “The patient
[] is not obligated to sacrifice all privacy to seek redress for a specific
mental or emotional injury; the scope of the inquiry permitted depends upon the
nature of the injuries which the patient-litigant himself has brought
before the court,” observed the California Supreme Court. (Id. at p.
864, emphasis added.) In sum, as applied here, the well-established rule is as
follows: While Defendants are not entitled to a “wholesale disclosure of []
[P]laintiff’s lifetime medical history,” Defendants are entitled to all
information concerning the medical conditions that Plaintiff has put at issue
as it is directly relevant to its defense of causation. (Id. at
p. 849.) 
 
Here, however, the court cannot resolve what is relevant medical
information (i.e., whether prior medical information from prior accidents has a
tendency to make a fact—that Defendants caused Plaintiff’s injuries—less
probable than it would be without the evidence) because the parties offer
differing accounts of Plaintiff’s claimed injuries. 
 
Defendants explain that Insurance Search Office Reports
revealed that Plaintiff made previous insurance claims through the subpoenaed
providers for injuries related to synovitis, which is the swelling of the
synovial membrane that lines some of a person's joints, as well as injuries to
his left and right shoulder, which is congruent with Plaintiff’s current claimed
injuries to Plaintiff’s knee, neck and back, the prior injury claims are
relevant for purposes of causation. (Opp. p. 5:11-15.)[6] 
 
In its motion, Plaintiff
identifies injuries to his neck, thoracic region (mid-back), lumbar region
(lower back), and right knee (Motion p. 3:2-6) and in Reply asserts that
Plaintiff’s current alleged injuries “are not of the kind suffered over fifteen
years ago, when the claims in question were made.” (Reply p. 2:4-7.) 
 
Thus, absent document or stipulation in this lawsuit that identifies
Plaintiff’s injuries, the extent of the injuries is unclear. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the motion
is TBD. The court will entertain requests to continue for supplemental briefing.   Sanctions will not be imposed on either party. 
 
 
 
 
 
 


