  Case Number:  23PSCV03306    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Estate of Mirza Hassan Mirza Mousa  Al-Sulaimi’s Motion to Strike Complaint and for Monetary Sanctions Against City  of Knowledge and their Counsel Respondent: Plaintiff City of  Knowledge Defendant Estate of Mirza Hassan Mirza Mousa  Al-Sulaimi’s Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens and Request for Statutory Attorney  Fees and Costs Against Plaintiff Respondent: Plaintiff City of  Knowledge TENTATIVE RULING Defendant Estate of Mirza Hassan Mirza Mousa  Al-Sulaimi’s Motion to Strike Complaint and for Monetary Sanctions Against City  of Knowledge and their Counsel is DENIED. Defendant Estate of Mirza Hassan Mirza Mousa  Al-Sulaimi’s Motion to Expunge Lis Pendens is GRANTED. Furthermore, Defendant  Estate of Mirza Hassan Mirza Mousa Al-Sulaimi’s Request for Statutory Attorney  Fees and Costs Against Plaintiff is GRANTED in the reduced amount of $1,252.50,  payable in thirty (30) days. BACKGROUND This is an action to quiet  title. In 1994, Plaintiff City of Knowledge was established as a local mosque  and temporary location for a K-7 school. The City of Knowledge then approached Mirza  Hassan Mirza Mousa Al-Sulaimi about purchasing a property that the City of  Knowledge could use as a permanent location for its school. Al-Sulaimi  allegedly agreed and purchased a property in Pomona for the City of Knowledge  in 1996. In 1997, the City of Knowledge began operations at the Pomona property  after receiving a conditional use permit. In 2000, Al-Sulaimi passed away and  the City of Knowledge alleges the title to the Pomona property passed to Al-Sulaimi’s  estate (the Al-Sulaimi Estate). In December 2015,  representatives of the Al-Sulaimi Estate allegedly assured the City of  Knowledge that the Pomona property would be for the City of Knowledge’s  indefinite use and that ownership of the property would be ultimately  transferred to the City of Knowledge. In allegedly relying on these  representations, the City of Knowledge used donations to fund multimillion-dollar  upgrades of the Pomona property that began in March 2020. In May 2023, the City  of Knowledge alleges the Al-Sulaimi Estate notified them of its intent to sell  the Pomona property to a third party. On October 25, 2023, the City  of Knowledge filed a complaint against the Al-Sulaimi Estate, all persons  unknown, and Does 1-50, alleging the following causes of action: (1) quiet  title, (2) intentional misrepresentation, (3) negligent misrepresentation, and (4)  unjust enrichment. On February 5, 2024, the  Al-Sulaimi Estate filed a cross-complaint against the City of Knowledge,  Haleema Shaikley, and Roes 1-50, alleging the following causes of action: (1)  quiet title, (2) trespass, (3) waste, and (4) ejectment. On February 6, 2024, the  Al-Sulaimi Estate filed the present motion to expunge a notice of lis pendens  that was recorded against the Pomona property by the City of Knowledge. On  March 11, the Al-Sulaimi Estate filed the present motion to strike. A hearing on the present  motions is set for April 23, 2024, along with a case management conference and  OSC Re: Failure to File Proof of Service. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL  NOTICE The Al-Sulaimi Estate  requests the court take judicial notice of records and filings in a previous  action before this court that include (1) a declaration filed by Haleema Shaikley,  (2) portions of a trial transcript, and (3) a copy of the judgment entered in  the previous action. The court GRANTS Al-Sulaimi Estate’s request as the  court may take judicial notice of state court records. (Evid. Code, § 452,  subd. (d); see Hart v. Darwish (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 218, 224 [trial  transcript of court’s ruling are court records].) ANALYSIS The  Al-Sulaimi Estate moves for monetary and terminating sanctions against the  City of Knowledge and the City of Knowledge’s counsel pursuant to Code of  Civil Procedure section 128.7. The Al-Sulaimi Estate also moves to  expunge the notice of lis pendens recorded against the Pomona property. For the following reasons, the court DENIES the Al-Sulaimi  Estate’s motion for sanctions and GRANTS the Al-Sulaimi Estate’s motion  to expunge the notice of lis pendens. Legal  Standard Sanctions Pursuant  to Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7, “a court may impose sanctions  if it concludes a pleading was filed for an improper purpose or was  indisputably without merit, either legally or factually.” (Bucur v. Ahmad  (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 175, 189.) “A claim is factually frivolous if it is ‘not  well grounded in fact’ and is legally frivolous if it is ‘not warranted by  existing law or a good faith argument for the extension, modification, or  reversal of existing law.’” (Ibid, quoting Guillemin v. Stein (2002)  104 Cal.App.4th 156, 167.) The moving party bears the burden of showing the  “the party’s conduct in asserting the claim was objectively unreasonable.” (Ibid.)  “A claim is objectively unreasonable if ‘any reasonable attorney would agree  that [it] is totally and completely without merit.’” (Ibid, quoting In  re Marriage of Flaherty (1982) 31 Cal.3d 637, 650.) But this section  “should be utilized only in ‘the rare and exceptional case where the action is  clearly frivolous, legally unreasonable or without legal foundation, or brought  for an improper purpose.’” (Kumar v. Ramsey (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 1110,  1121 (Kumar), quoting Operating Engineers Pension Trust v. A-C Co. (9th  Cir. 1988) 859 F.2d 1336, 1344.) Code  of Civil Procedure section 128.7 also includes a safe harbor provision  that states a “[n]otice of motion shall be served as provided in Section 1010,  but shall not be filed with or presented to the court unless, within 21 days  after service of the motion, or any other period as the court may prescribe,  the challenged paper, claim, defense, contention, allegation, or denial is not  withdrawn or appropriately corrected.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd.  (c)(1); Li v. Majestic Industry Hills, LLC (2009) 177 Cal.App.4th 585,  590-591.) This safe harbor requirement is strictly enforced, and substantial  compliance is not sufficient. (See Cromwell v. Cummings (1998) 65  Cal.App.4th Supp.10, 15.) “If  warranted, the court may award to the party prevailing on the motion the  reasonable expenses and attorney’s fees incurred in presenting or opposing the  motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.7, subd. (c)(1).) An award of fees is  not warranted unless the motion was “frivolous, unfounded, filed for an  improper purpose, or otherwise unreasonable.” (Musaelian v. Adams¿(2011)  197 Cal.App.4th 1251, 1258.) Expungement  of Notice of Lis Pendens Pursuant to Code  of Civil Procedure section 405.30, a party may move to expunge a notice of  lis pendens if they meet the requirements of Code of Civil Procedure  sections 405.31 and 405.32. Code of Civil Procedure section 405.31  states the court must expunge a notice of lis pendens if “the pleading on which  the notice is based does not contain a real property claim.” If the pleading  does contain a real property claim, “the court shall order that the notice be  expunged if the court finds that the claimant has not established by a  preponderance of the evidence the probable validity of the real property claim.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.32.) Discussion Prior  to the filing of the motion for sanctions on March 11, 2024, counsel for the Al-Sulaimi Estate served a  copy of the motion on the City of Knowledge’s counsel via email on February 14,  2024. Because the Al-Sulaimi Estate’s original  service of this motion was twenty-six days before it was filed, the court finds  the Al-Sulaimi Estate complied with the safe  harbor provisions of Code of Civil Procedure section 128.7. Motion  to Expunge Notice of Lis Pendens The  only real property claim alleged in the Complaint is the first cause of action  to quiet title on adverse possession grounds. The Complaint alleges the City of  Knowledge became the owner of the Pomona property through adverse possession in  possessing the Pomona property “by  actual, open, hostile, continuous, and exclusive possession for more than five  (5) years.” (Complaint, ¶ 35.) The Al-Sulaimi Estate argues the City of  Knowledge cannot establish the probable validity of this cause of action  because it is collaterally estopped by a judgment entered in May 2018 that  confirmed the Al-Sulaimi Estate’s ownership of the Pomona property. (Motion, p.  9:6-8; RJN, Ex. 3.) Here, the court need not  determine whether the City of Knowledge’s adverse possession claim is  collaterally estopped as it lacks probable validity on its face. “The elements  of an adverse possession claim consist of the following: (1) actual possession  by the plaintiff of the property under claim of right or color of title; (2)  the possession consists of open and notorious occupation of the property in  such a manner as to constitute reasonable notice to the true owner; (3) the  possession is adverse and hostile to the true owner; (4) the possession is  uninterrupted and continuous for at least five years; and (5) the plaintiff has  paid all taxes assessed against the property during the five-year period.” [Citations.]  Unless each of these elements is established by the evidence, the plaintiff has  not acquired title by adverse possession.” (Bailey v. Citibank, N.A. (2021)  66 Cal.App.5th 335, 351.) “To be considered hostile,  the acts relied upon must operate as an invasion of the right of the party  against whom they are asserted.” (Laubisch v. Roberdo (1954) 43 Cal.2d  702, 706.) Thus, “title by adverse possession cannot be acquired where the  occupant has entered into possession by permission or consent of the owner.” (Janes  v. LeDeit (1964) 228 Cal.App.2d 474, 489.) Here, the City of Knowledge alleges  Al-Sulaimi agreed to purchase the Pomona property for the City of Knowledge’s  use in 1996. (Complaint, ¶ 13.) The City of Knowledge acknowledges that title  passed to the Al-Sulaimi Estate in 2000 and alleges they requested the title be  transferred to the City of Knowledge in 2001. (Complaint, ¶ 16, 19-20.) In  2013, a representative from the Al-Sulaimi Estate informed the City of  Knowledge that ownership of the property would be transferred to the City of  Knowledge. (Complaint, ¶ 25.) In December 2015, representatives of the City of  Knowledge met with representatives of the Al-Sulaimi Estate who again assured  them that the City of Knowledge could use the Pomona property indefinitely and  that ownership would ultimately be transferred to the City of Knowledge.  (Complaint, ¶ 22.) In 2018, the City of  Knowledge informed the Al-Sulaimi Estate that they had obtained donor funding  for $2,000,000 worth of renovations for the Pomona property. (Complaint, ¶ 26.)  The City of Knowledge alleges the Al-Sulaimi Estate’s representatives  “expressed their approval and gratefulness.” (Complaint, ¶ 26.) The City of  Knowledge also alleges the Al-Sulaimi Estate expressly and implicitly approved  the renovations as the City of Knowledge kept the Al-Sulaimi Estate informed of  the progress made on the renovations and the Al-Sulaimi Estate never  communicated any disproval. (Complaint, ¶ 27-28.) In fact, the City of  Knowledge admits that “notwithstanding repeated communications between the [City  of Knowledge] and [the Al-Sulaimi Estate] regarding the donations and ongoing  renovation process, the Estate never expressed any change in position regarding  the School ultimately taking ownership of the property” until May 2023 when the  Al-Sulaimi Estate announced an intent to sell the Pomona property. (Complaint,  ¶ 31-32.) Thus, based on the City of  Knowledge’s own allegations, the City of Knowledge’s possession of the Pomona  property was never hostile to the interests of the Al-Sulaimi Estate as they  had the estate’s explicit and implicit permission to occupy and renovate the  premises. Even when the Al-Sulaimi Estate informed the City of Knowledge of  their intent to sell the Pomona property, the Complaint does not allege if the Sulaimi  Estate actually ordered the City of Knowledge to leave the premises.  (Complaint, ¶ 32.) Because the City of Knowledge’s possession was not hostile  and adverse to the Al-Sulaimi Estate, their claim of adverse possession lacks  probable validity. As such, the Al-Sulaimi Estate is entitled to the  expungement of the notice of lis pendens. Accordingly, the Al-Sulaimi  Estate’s motion is GRANTED. Motion for Sanctions Notwithstanding the court’s  above conclusion that the Complaint’s first cause of action for quiet title  lacks probable validity, the Al-Sulaimi Estate must also establish that the  Complaint’s other causes of action are equally and indisputably without merit. In  addition to the first cause of action, the Complaint also alleges intentional  representation, negligent misrepresentation, and unjust enrichment claims. The Al-Sulaimi Estate  contends these claims are without merit as they are barred by the doctrine of collateral  estoppel. Collateral estoppel or “[i]ssue preclusion¿prohibits the  relitigation of issues argued and decided in a previous case, even if the  second suit raises different causes of action.” (DKN Holdings LLC v. Faerber  (2015) 61 Cal.4th 813, 824.) “[I]ssue preclusion applies: (1) after  final adjudication (2) of an identical issue (3) actually litigated and  necessarily decided in the first suit and (4) asserted against one who was a  party in the first suit or one in privity with that party.” (Id., at p.  825.) But unlike claim preclusion, issue preclusion does not bar  entire causes of action. Instead, it prevents relitigation of previously  decided issues.” (Id., at p. 824.) Here, Al-Sulaimi  Estate contends the issue of the estate’s ownership of the Pomona property was adjudicated  in the previous 2018 action, of which the court has taken judicial notice. (Motion,  p. 12:2-4.) That, however, is not the issue in the City of Knowledge’s fraud  and unjust enrichment causes of action. Rather, the City of Knowledge alleges  that the Al-Sulaimi Estate fraudulently induced the City of Knowledge to occupy  and renovate the Pomona property by falsely or negligently representing that  the Al-Sulaimi Estate would ultimately transfer the Pomona property to the City  of Knowledge. (Complaint, ¶ 49-52, 62-64, 69-70.) The fact that the Al-Sulaimi  Estate owns the Pomona property does not defeat the City of Knowledge’s claim  that Al-Sulaimi Estate promised to eventually transfer the property to the City  of Knowledge. Thus, the Al-Sulaimi Estate cannot establish the City of  Knowledge’s Complaint utterly devoid of merit. Accordingly, the Al-Sulaimi  Estate’s motion for sanctions is DENIED. Request for Attorney  Fees and Costs Last, the Al-Sulaimi Estate  requests an award of attorney fees and costs for bringing the two present  motions. Because the court has denied the Al-Sulaimi Estate’s motion for sanctions,  the court declines to award any fees or costs incurred on that motion. As to the Al-Sulaimi Estate’s  motion to expunge the notice of lis pendens, the court determines the Al-Sulaimi  Estate is entitled to reasonable attorney fees and costs as the prevailing  party. (Code Civ. Proc., § 405.38.) Accordingly, utilizing the loadstar  approach and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the court awards  reasonable attorney fees and costs in the amount of $1,252.50 payable to the  Al-Sulaimi Estate in thirty (30) days ($1,192.50 for 0.8 hours drafting  correspondence, 2.0 hours drafting the motion, 2.0 hours reviewing opposition  and drafting a reply, and 0.5 hours attending the hearing at an hourly rate of  $225 plus $60.00 in motion filling fees). CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the  court rules as follows: The Al-Sulaimi Estate’s  motion to strike the Complaint and impose sanctions is DENIED. The Al-Sulaimi Estate’s  motion to expunge the notice of lis pendens is GRANTED. Furthermore, the  Al-Sulaimi Estate is awarded attorney fees and costs in the amount of $1,252.50,  payable in thirty (30) days.