 Case Number:  23SMCV05901    Hearing Date:   March 12, 2024    Dept:  I This is a motion to compel arbitration.  The motion is CONTINUED to allow some
additional discovery and briefing.
The moving party is a lawyer, Horne.  Horne was retained by plaintiff in 2016 (and
again in 2017) to provide transactional advice related to capital structure and
compensation plans.  The retainer
agreement expressly stated that Horne was not being retained to provide tax
advice and the client was told to get tax advice from tax professionals, but
the letter also said that plaintiff should have the tax advisors contact Horne
so that they could coordinate their services. 
The retainer agreements had arbitration provisions.  Plaintiff sued Horne and an accounting firm
(HCVT) claiming a problem.  According to
plaintiff, the compensation plans that Horne drafted, coupled with the advice
HCVT gave, led to a tax liability related to section 409A.  HCVT did not have an arbitration clause in
its contract (or at least none has been pointed out to the court).
Horne moves to compel arbitration pursuant to the retainer
agreements.  Those agreements did include
an arbitration clause that appears broad enough to cover this dispute.  The major thrust of the opposition is that
arbitration should not be compelled because HCVT is a joint defendant and the
alleged malpractice is intertwined as between Horne and HCVT such that an
arbitration against Horne only could lead to inconsistent results.
The HCVT issue was not addressed in the moving papers.  Technically, it is not part of the prima
facie case for the motion.  But the
choice to relegate what is the key argument to the reply was not a tactically
wise one.  Had the issue been fronted in
the moving papers, it could have been more properly joined and some of the
issues the court now has could have been resolved in the papers so that the
court could have ruled.  That being said,
the court will deal with the papers as drafted. 
In reply, Horne states that his work and HCVT’s work were
different.  Horne was retained to prepare
the equity and bonus plans, which it delivered in 2019.  HCVT was engaged in 2021 to provide tax
advance.  Thus, Horne suggests, there is
no overlap between the two, and there was no joint effort as between Horne and
HCVT.  The complaint alleges otherwise,
but this is an evidentiary motion; it is not governed by the facts alleged in
the pleadings.  And if Horne and HCVT did
not engage together in the alleged negligence, then Horne has a good point that
there is no need to refuse enforcement of the arbitration provision.
It seems obvious to the court that if counsel’s work ended
in 2019 and HCVT was not retained until 2021, the two are distinct enough such
that the joint party defense articulated in Abaya v. Spanish Ranch I, L.P.
(2010) 189 Cal.App.4th 1490 is no bar to the motion.  On the other hand, if (as plaintiff suggests)
HCVT consulted with Horne in 2021 and the two jointly arrived at advice that
ultimately led to the problem, that is a different matter.  The court notes that the retainer agreement
invites such consultation and collaboration, but that does not mean it
occurred. 
The court will therefore CONTINUE the motion to allow the
parties to discover evidence as to the extent, if any, of the collaboration
between counsel and HCVT.  If it was as
extensive as plaintiff suggests, then the motion might well fail.  If it does not overlap at all, as counsel
suggests, the motion may have merit.  The
court will discuss what supplemental papers will be filed and when the hearing
will reconvene.  The discovery will be
limited to the issue whether the two defenses are so intertwined that the court
ought not order arbitration as to Horne.
One last point.  The
court notes that although the retainer agreement states that counsel will not
provide tax advice, that does not end the issue.  It could be that counsel’s statements or
advice to HCVT was such that the work is intertwined.  The disclaimer of tax advice might well be a
substantive defense to the action, but it does not go directly to the question
whether the case ought to be arbitrated. 
