 Case Number:  22STCV21045    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  6   CASE NAME: Phyllis  Brost, et al. v. Vitas Healthcare, et al. Defendant  Vitas Healthcare’s Demurrer to Plaintiffs’ Third Amended Complaint; andDefendant  Vitas Healthcare’s Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’ Third Amended  Complaint  TENTATIVE RULING             The Court SUSTAINS Defendant Vitas  Healthcare’s demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action without leave to amend.  Defendant Vitas Healthcare must file an Answer to the Third Amended Complaint  within 20 days of the Court’s ruling on the demurrer of Defendant Wiefels &  Son, Inc. d/b/a All Caring Solutions, which is set for hearing on October 12,  2023.              The Court DENIES Defendant Vitas’  motion to strike.              Defendant Vitas Healthcare is  ordered to give notice of the Court’s order herein and provide proof of service  of same within five calendar days of the Court’s order.  BACKGROUND This case arises from the death of James  Elmer Brost (Decedent) and the alleged mishandling of his corpse. On June 28,  2022, Plaintiffs Phyllis Brost, Angelique Barnum, and James Jr.[1] (collectively, Plaintiffs) filed this action against Defendants Vitas  Healthcare (Vitas), Wiefels & Son, Inc. d/b/a All Caring Solutions, (All  Caring Solutions), Michael Bobadilla (Bobadilla), Paradise Transportation and  Funeral Services (Paradise), and Juan Reatiga (Reatiga) (collectively,  Defendants).              On August 19, 2022, Plaintiffs filed  the First Amended Complaint (FAC). On February 6, 2023, the Court sustained the  demurrer of Vitas with leave to amend as to the First Amended Complaint and  continued the hearing on Defendant ACS’s demurrer for the failure to meet and  confer.              On March 6, 2023, Plaintiffs filed  the Second Amended Complaint (SAC). On June 21, 2023, the Court overruled  Vitas’ demurrer to the Third and Fourth Causes of Action of the SAC but  sustained with leave to amend as to the Fifth Cause of Action. The Court also sustained  All Caring Solutions’ demurrer to the Fifth and Sixth Causes of Action of the  SAC with leave to amend.              On July 17, 2023, Plaintiffs filed  the operative Third Amended Complaint (TAC), alleging causes of action for negligence/wrongful  death, negligence/survival, statutory violation of California’s Civil Elder  Abuse/Neglect Protection Act (Wel. & Inst. Code § 15600, Et. Seq) –  Survival, willful misconduct, negligent mishandling and wrongful retention of a  corpse, and intentional mishandling and retention of a corpse.  On August 16, 2023, Vitas filed the instant  demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action of the TAC for negligent mishandling and  wrongful retention of a corpse and a motion to strike. On September 21, 2023,  Plaintiffs opposed the demurrer and motion to strike. On September 28, 2023,  Vitas replied to both oppositions.  LEGAL  STANDARD - Demurrer A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of  other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or  content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or  cross-complaint). (Code Civ.  Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116  Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the  truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of ruling on the demurrer; all  facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true. (Id.)   A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on  the face of the pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading  that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,  318; Donabedian, supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other  extrinsic evidence can be considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson  (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in  memorandum supporting demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United  States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169  Cal.App.3d 859, 862 [disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal v.  Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287] [error to consider contents  of release not part of court record].)   A demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint”  itself is incomplete or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian  North Bay, Inc. v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963,  971-972.) The “face of the complaint” includes material contained in  attached exhibits that are incorporated by reference into the complaint; or in a  superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v. Blackwell (1987) 189  Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90  Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and  accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as surplusage the  pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”])   A demurrer can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire  cause of action. (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148  Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency  (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.)  DISCUSSION – Demurrer Meet and Confer Per Code of Civil  Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a), Vitas was required to meet and  confer before bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  The Court finds Vitas’ efforts to meet and confer insufficient, as there is no  evidence they met and conferred telephonically or in person. (Tarpley Decl., ¶¶  3-4.)  Nevertheless, the Court may not overrule the demurrer for failure to adequately  meet and confer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).) The Court will  still consider the demurrer but admonishes Vitas to comply with these  requirements going forward.  Fifth  Cause of Action – Negligent Mishandling and Wrongful Retention of a Corpse Negligent mishandling of human  remains is a tort of negligence. The name is merely “convenient terminology  descriptive of the context in which the negligent conduct occurred.” (Christensen  v. Superior Court (1991) 54 Cal.3d 868, 884.) Thus, “when damages are sought for negligently inflicted  emotional distress, the tort is negligence regardless of the specific name that  may be used to describe the tort, and that the elements of duty, breach of  duty, causation and damages must be pleaded and proven.” (Id., at p. 882.) Defendant  Vitas contends that the Fifth Cause of Action for negligent mishandling and  wrongful retention of a corpse fails because the TAC fails to allege facts that  show Vitas owed Plaintiffs a duty in connection with the disposition of the  Decedent’s remains. Vitas also contends that the TAC fails to allege facts showing  that the alleged mishandling of the Decedent’s remains was foreseeable as a  result of calling the wrong mortuary service. Vitas further contends that the  TAC alleges no facts to impute liability to Vitas for the actions of the other  defendants in this action who actually handled Decedent’s body. The Court  agrees. Vitas  cites the case of Spates v. Dameron Hospital Assn. (2003) 114  Cal.App.4th 208 for the proposition that Vitas owed no duty to Plaintiffs to  provide interment services for the Decedent. In Spates, the defendant  hospital attempted to reach the plaintiff to apprise her of her mother’s death  but was unable to reach her based on outdated contact information. (Id., at p. 212.) The defendant hospital subsequently turned over the decedent’s body  to the county to be cremated. (Id.) The plaintiff later learned of the  decedent’s death and cremation after the fact, and sued the defendant hospital,  alleging negligent disposal of the decedent’s body. (Id.) The Court of  Appeal ruled that the defendant hospital owed no duty to the plaintiff. (Id., at p. 218.) The Court agrees that Spates is applicable here and  that it undermines Plaintiffs’ claim for negligent mishandling of Decedent’s  body. The Court of Appeal in Spates based part of its conclusion  regarding the lack of duty on the fact that the defendant hospital had not contracted  with the plaintiff or anyone else regarding the disposition of the decedent’s  body. (Spates, supra, 113 Cal.App.4th at p. 220.) Here, the TAC contains  insufficient allegations to evidence a contractual obligation between Vitas on  the one hand and Plaintiffs or any other third-party on the other hand. While  the TAC contains multiple allegations of a contractual relationship, those all  appear to be between All Caring Solutions and Paradise. (See, e.g., TAC, ¶¶ 8-9,  32-33, 37, 81-82, 93, 99-102, 113, 120-121, 123-124.) At most, Plaintiffs allege  in paragraph 82 of the TAC that, “[a]s part  of the contract and agreement with VITAS, Plaintiffs had specifically stated  that Todd’s Memorial Chapel was the point of contact in the event of a JAMES  SR’s death.” (TAC, ¶ 82.) However, this is a conclusory allegation of a  contractual relationship that inadequately alleges facts demonstrating the  extent of Vitas’ alleged contractual obligation regarding the disposition of  Decedent’s body. Further, Plaintiffs allege that “VITAS is a managed care  provider pursuant to Health & Safety Code § 1345(f)(1) as  it receives reimbursement payments from Medicare, whereby payments are made by  Medicare on behalf of its recipients, like Decedent JAMES SR., when said  recipients are treated or receive care.” (TAC, ¶ 22.) There are no facts  showing a contractual relationship between Vitas and Plaintiffs. Nor are there  any facts showing a contract with Vitas giving rise to a duty of care regarding  the handling of Decedent’s body. With  respect to foreseeability, that is normally a question of fact except in highly  unusual or extraordinary situations. “An act is not foreseeable and thus is a  superseding cause of the injury ‘if the independent intervening act is highly  unusual or extraordinary, not reasonably likely to happen. . . .’ [Citation.] Generally  speaking the determination of whether the intervening act is foreseeable is a  question of fact unless under the undisputed facts there is no room for a  reasonable difference of opinion. [Citations.]” (Schrimsher v. Bryson (1976)  58 Cal.App.3d 660, 664.) The Court agrees that Bobadilla’s misrepresentations  about working for Todd’s Memorial Chapel (TAC, ¶ 33) is a supervening cause and  not reasonably likely to happen as viewed by a reasonable person. (TAC, ¶ 88.) Thus,  it was not foreseeable that the Decedent would be transported to the wrong  mortuary, even if Vitas owed Plaintiffs a duty of care to call Todd’s Memorial  Chapel. Moreover, Bobadilla is alleged to be an employee of All Caring Creations,  not Vitas. Further, the Court also finds that it is not reasonably foreseeable  that failing to contact the correct mortuary would result in the physical mishandling  of the Decedent’s body. Finally, regarding the  imputation of liability, the Court finds that the TAC still fails to allege  facts that imputes the actions of the Corpse Defendants[2] to Vitas. “It is only where a person actually acts through another to  accomplish his own ends that the law will or should impose such vicarious  liability. Right of control over the other person is a test of the required  relationship, but it is not itself the justification for imposing liability.  Aside from such legal relationships as master and servant, principal and agent,  etc., before the courts will find that the parties were joint adventurers there  must be clear evidence of a community of interest in a common undertaking in  which each participant has or exercises the right of equal or joint control and  direction. [Citations.] A joint venture is sort of a mutual agency, akin to a  limited partnership. [Citations.] It is not sufficient that the parties have  certain plans in common, but the community of interest must be such that [each]  is entitled to be heard in the control [of the enterprise]. [Citations.] Most  of the cases indicate that the common interest must be of some business nature.  [Citations.]” (Christensen, supra, 54 Cal.3d at p. 893.) The TAC still fails to allege  any facts showing that Vitas exercised control over the Corpse Defendants or  that there was a clear community of interest between the Defendants.  Accordingly, Plaintiffs fail to allege sufficient facts to state a cause of  action against Vitas. Based  on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS Vitas’ demurrer to the Fifth Cause of  Action without leave to amend, given the number of amendments Plaintiffs have  unsuccessfully made by this point in the litigation. LEGAL  STANDARD – Motion to Strike “Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may  serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this time limitation shall not apply to  motions specified in subdivision (e).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd.  (b)(2).) “The court may, upon a motion made pursuant to Section 435, or at any  time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper  matter inserted in any pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not  drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an  order of the court.” (Id., § 436.) DISCUSSION –  Motion to Strike Meet  and Confer Per Code of Civil  Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a), Vitas was required to meet and confer  telephonically or in person before bringing this motion to strike. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a).) The Court finds Vitas’ efforts to meet and confer insufficient,  as there is no evidence they met and conferred telephonically or in person. (Tarpley  Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.)  Nevertheless, the Court may not deny the motion to strike for failure to  adequately meet and confer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5, subd. (a)(4).) The Court  will still consider the motion to strike but admonishes Vitas to comply with  these requirements going forward.                   Analysis In  light of the Court sustaining the demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action without  leave to amend, the Court finds Vitas’ motion to strike moot with respect to paragraph  83, lines 17-8, paragraph 98, lines 98-3[3],  and paragraph 109. With  respect to the punitive damages allegations in paragraphs 69 and 70 and the  punitive damages request and attorney’s fees request under items 6 and 7 on  page 37 for the prayer for relief, the Court notes that the previous court  overruled Vitas’ demurrer with respect to Plaintiffs’ Third Cause of Action for  Elder Abuse. (Order (6/21/2023).) In fact, the Court specifically denied Vitas’  motion to strike regarding punitive damages because the Court found Plaintiffs adequately  alleged a cause of action for elder abuse. (Id.) The Court further finds  that these allegations are sufficient for Plaintiffs’ attorney’s fees request  as well. (See Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15657, subd. (a).) Therefore, the Court  denies the motion to strike these portions of the TAC. With  respect to the punitive damages allegation in paragraph 77 of the TAC, the  Court again denies on the basis that the previous court overruled Vitas’  previous demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action for Willful Misconduct. (Order  (6/21/2023).) The Court further agrees with Plaintiffs that the gravamen of the  TAC is for elder abuse, which does not require compliance with Code of Civil  Procedure section 425.13 to request punitive damages. (Country Villa Claremont Healthcare Center, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th  426, 435; Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771,  779.) It  is unclear if Vitas is also seeking to strike Plaintiffs’ request for costs  since they were included in the prayer for attorney’s fees. (TAC, p. 37, item  7.) To the extent Vitas is requesting such costs to be stricken, the Court  denies the motion, since costs are generally recoverable to the prevailing  party of a lawsuit. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1033.5, subd. (a)(16).) Based  on the foregoing, the Court DENIES Vitas’ motion to strike. CONCLUSION             The Court SUSTAINS Defendant Vitas  Healthcare’s demurrer to the Fifth Cause of Action without leave to amend.  Defendant Vitas Healthcare must file an Answer to the Third Amended Complaint  within 20 days of the Court’s ruling on the demurrer of Defendant Wiefels &  Son, Inc. d/b/a All Caring Solutions, which is set for hearing on October 12,  2023.              The Court DENIES Defendant Vitas’ motion  to strike.              Defendant Vitas Healthcare is  ordered to give notice of the Court’s order herein and provide proof of service  of same within five calendar days of the Court’s order.     