 Case Number:  23PSCV01613    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME: Kirasah Noorizadeh v. Dr. Maxwell Nazari 618 N. Diamond Bar Blvd, Diamond Bar, CA 91765 

Plaintiff's Motion to Quash or Modify Subpoena

TENTATIVE RULING
The Court DENIES the motion to quash. The Court GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $1,000.00, comprised of 3.0 hours preparing the opposition and 1.0 hours for appearing at the hearing on the motion, for a total of 4.0 hours, multiplied by the hourly rate of $250.00. The Court will hear from the parties on the issue of sanctions.

Defendant is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.

BACKGROUND
This is a medical malpractice case. On May 26, 2023, Plaintiff Kiarash Noorizadeh (Plaintiff) filed this action against Dr. Maxwell Nazari 618 N. Diamond Bar Blvd, Diamond Bar, CA 91765 (Defendant), alleging causes of action for medical malpractice and personal injury. 

On August 11, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to quash or modify subpoena. On September 21, 2023, Defendant opposed. No reply has been filed.

LEGAL STANDARD
“Any consumer whose personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum and who is a party to the civil action in which this subpoena duces tecum is served may, prior to the date for production, bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum. Notice of the bringing of that motion shall be given to the witness and deposition officer at least five days prior to production. The failure to provide notice to the deposition officer shall not invalidate the motion to quash or modify the subpoena duces tecum but may be raised by the deposition officer as an affirmative defense in any action for liability for improper release of records.

Any other consumer or nonparty whose personal records are sought by a subpoena duces tecum may, prior to the date of production, serve on the subpoenaing party, the witness, and the deposition officer, a written objection that cites the specific grounds on which production of the personal records should be prohibited.

No witness or deposition officer shall be required to produce personal records after receipt of notice that the motion has been brought by a consumer, or after receipt of a written objection from a nonparty consumer, except upon order of the court in which the action is pending or by agreement of the parties, witnesses, and consumers affected.

The party requesting a consumer's personal records may bring a motion under Section 1987.1 to enforce the subpoena within 20 days of service of the written objection. The motion shall be accompanied by a declaration showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at informal resolution of the dispute between the party requesting the personal records and the consumer or the consumer's attorney.”

(Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3, subd. (g).)

“(a) If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the production of books, documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court, or at the trial of an issue therein, or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion reasonably made by any person described in subdivision (b), or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including protective orders. In addition, the court may make any other order as may be appropriate to protect the person from unreasonable or oppressive demands, including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person.

(b) The following persons may make a motion pursuant to subdivision (a):
(1) A party.
(2) A witness.
(3) A consumer described in Section 1985.3.
(4) An employee described in Section 1985.6.
(5) A person whose personally identifying information, as defined in subdivision (b) of Section 1798.79.8 of the Civil Code, is sought in connection with an underlying action involving that person's exercise of free speech rights.

(c) Nothing in this section shall require any person to move to quash, modify, or condition any subpoena duces tecum of personal records of any consumer served under paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of Section 1985.3 or employment records of any employee served under paragraph (1) of subdivision (b) of Section 1985.6.”

(Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1.)

DISCUSSION
Plaintiff seeks to quash or modify a subpoena served by Defendant. However, for the reasons set forth herein, the Court declines to do so.

First, although not raised by Defendant’s opposition, the Court notes that Plaintiff’s motion fails to comply with Rule 3.1345, subdivision (a)(5) of the California Rules of Court, which provides that, “[e]xcept as provided in (b), any motion involving the content of a discovery request or the responses to such a request must be accompanied by a separate statement. The motions that require a separate statement include a motion:… (5) To compel or to quash the production of documents or tangible things at a deposition…” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(5).) Plaintiff has not provided a separate statement with his motion. This by itself is sufficient grounds for denying the motion.

Second, Plaintiff has not identified the particular subpoena at issue or any of the categories of documents requested by Defendant to which Plaintiff purportedly objects. While Defendant’s opposition appears to identify the deposition subpoena as one that was served on Los Olivos Dentistry, (Opp., 2:26-3:20), the deposition subpoena is still not attached or otherwise provided. The Court cannot assess whether the categories of documents requested are objectionable without seeing the deposition subpoena to which Plaintiff is objecting.

Third, it is unclear whether notice of Plaintiff’s motion was served on the witness/third-party deponent, who appears to be Los Olivos Dentistry, and if so, whether it was served at least five days before the date of production per Code of Civil Procedure section 1983.5, subdivision (g). (Id.) The Court notes that the proof of service filed in conjunction with the motion on August 11, 2023 states only that counsel for Defendant was served. (Proof of Service (8/11/23).) Given the absence of any response by Los Olivos Dentistry, the Court infers it was not so served.

Finally, to the extent that Plaintiff’s motion is based on the contention that he has already produced dental records from Los Olivos Dentistry, the motion is denied. Defendant is entitled to subpoena relevant dental records from Plaintiff’s dentist and to receive such records directly from the dentist’s office, regardless of whether Plaintiff has provided Defendant with dental records. “Medical…records relating to the claimed injuries are” generally “discoverable.” (Haning, et al., Cal. Prac. Guide Pers. Inj. (Rutter Group 2021) § 6:36.1-(citing Ev.C. § 996, 1016; Britt v. Sup. Ct. (San Diego Unified Port Dist.) (1978) 20 C3d 844, 862-864, 143 CR 695, 706-708.) Any matter that is relevant to the subject matter and not privileged is discoverable if it is itself admissible or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., section 2017.010.) Defendant contends that the “subpoena is limited to the area of the body to which Plaintiff claimed injury and to the subsequent treatment Plaintiff received to treat said injury.” (Opp., p. 6:4-6.) Thus, Defendant would be entitled to such records and can subpoena them from the dental treatment provider.

Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion to quash or modify subpoena.

As for Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $1,000.00, comprised of 3.0 hours preparing the opposition and 1.0 hours for appearing at the hearing on the motion, for a total of 4.0 hours, multiplied by the hourly rate of $250.00. The Court will hear from the parties on the issue of sanctions.

CONCLUSION
The Court DENIES the motion to quash. The Court GRANTS Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $1,000.00, comprised of 3.0 hours preparing the opposition and 1.0 hours for appearing at the hearing on the motion, for a total of 5.0 hours, multiplied by the hourly rate of $250.00. The Court will hear from the parties on the issue of sanctions. 

Defendant is ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within five calendar days of this order.
