 Case Number:  21STCV09344    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  LISA STEINMETZ, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  CITY OF LOS ANGELES, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV09344  [TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 2, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Lisa Steinmetz (“Plaintiff”) filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against defendants City of Los Angeles (“City of LA”), City of Calabasas, and Does 1 through 100 for injuries arising from a slip and fall. Plaintiff alleges she was riding her bicycle on July 22, 2020 on Valmar Road at or near the intersection with Brenford Street when her bicycle slid on the water and algae in the street, causing her to fall and sustain injury. (FAC at ¶ 11.) Plaintiff sets forth two causes of action for (1) dangerous condition of public property against all defendants, and (2) public nuisance against the City of LA.   The City of LA now moves for summary judgment on the grounds that it does not own, maintain, or control the water system or the property where Plaintiff was injured. Plaintiff opposes the motion, and the City of LA filed a reply.   II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE & EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS Judicial Notice The City of LA requests the Court take judicial notice of: (1) Plaintiff’s FAC, (2) Plaintiff’s verified responses to the City of La’s special interrogatories, (3) photographs produced by Plaintiff in response to written discovery, (4) Google Map images, (5) and Plaintiff’s government claim. Request 1 is granted. (Evid. Code §452(d).)  Requests 2 and 3 are granted. (Evid. Code § 452(d); see also Arce ex rel. Arce v. Kaiser Found. Health Plan, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 471, 485 [court may take judicial notice of a party's admissions or concessions in cases where the admission “ ‘cannot reasonably be controverted,’ such as in answers to interrogatories or requests for admission, or in affidavits and declarations filed on the party's behalf.”].)  Request 4 is denied.  Request 5 is granted as to taking judicial notice of the filing and contents of the government claim. (Gong v. City of Rosemead (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 363, 369-70 n. 1.)     Evidentiary Objections The City objects to Plaintiff’s use of the City’s own evidence in Plaintiff’s opposition to undisputed facts. The objections are overruled.   III. MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT  A. Burdens on Summary Judgment A party may move for summary judgment “if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving party will be entitled to summary judgment.  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)    The moving party bears an initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact, and if the party does so, the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850; accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Med. Ctr. (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.) “When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi, supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at p. 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(c).)  B. Analysis  A “dangerous condition” is a condition of property that creates a substantial risk of injury when such property is used with due care in a manner which is reasonably foreseeable. Ordinarily, the existence of a dangerous condition is a question of fact. However, it can be resolved as a question of law if reasonable minds can come but to one conclusion. It is for the Court to determine whether, as a matter of law, a given defect is not dangerous because property owners should not become insurers against injuries arising from trivial defects. (Davis v. City of Pasadena (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 701, 704.)  “The Act defines a “ ‘[d]angerous condition’ ” as “a condition of property that creates a substantial (as distinguished from a minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when such property or adjacent property is used with due care in a manner in which it is reasonably foreseeable that it will be used.” (§ 830.) Public property is in a dangerous condition within the meaning of section 835 if it “is physically damaged, deteriorated, or defective in such a way as to foreseeably endanger those using the property itself.” [Citation.] A condition is not dangerous “if the trial or appellate court, viewing the evidence most favorably to the plaintiff, determines as a matter of law that the risk created by the condition was of such a minor, trivial, or insignificant nature in view of the surrounding circumstances that no reasonable person would conclude that the condition created a substantial risk of injury when such property or adjacent property was used with due care in a manner in which it was reasonably foreseeable that it would be used.” (§ 830.2.)     (Cordova v. City of Los Angeles (2015) 61 Cal.4th 1099, 1105.)  ““The pleadings define the issues to be considered on a motion for summary judgment” (Sturgeon v. Bratton (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 1407, 1417–1418, 95 Cal.Rptr.3d 718), and the issues framed by the pleadings are the only issues a motion for summary judgment must address. [Citation].” (Physicians Comm. for Responsible Med. v. McDonald's Corp. (2010) 187 Cal. App. 4th 554, 568.)  Here, as framed by the FAC, Plaintiff alleges in her first cause of action for dangerous condition of public property that all defendants carelessly and negligently owned, maintained, controlled, managed, and operated, and maintained Valmar Road, such that the road was unsafe and dangerous to persons using the roadway. (FAC at ¶ 10.) Plaintiff alleges that she was riding a bicycle on Valmar Road near the intersection with Brandford Street when her bicycle slid on water and algae on the street. (Id. at ¶ 11.) The second cause of action for public nuisance against the City of LA alleges that it “allowed a continuous stream of water to be discharged onto Manson Avenue which then flows on to Brenford Street and other streets within the City of Calabasas.” (Id. at ¶ 19.) The FAC further alleges that the “residents of the City of Calabasas have complained to the City of Los Angeles about the continuous discharge of water” and that the City allowed the condition to exist for more than 10 years, such that over time, the continuous flow of water allowed pools to exist on the City of Calabasas streets, allowing algae and other materials to collect and make those areas extremely slippery. (Id. at ¶¶19-26.) As a result, Plaintiff slipped on the accumulated water and algae. (Id. at ¶ 27.)  In support thereof, Defendants submit Plaintiff’s verified declarations of its civil engineer Ali Nahass, P.E. (“Nahass”) and real estate trainee Lee Lynch, Jr. (“Lynch”). Nahass declares that the “the City of Los Angeles does not own, maintain, or control the pipe at issue, and the property where the pipe is located.” (Nahass Decl. ¶ 5.) Lunch declares that the “City of Los Angeles does not and has not owned that portion of Valmar Road where the subject accident took place, in the City of Calabasas, California, on or before July 22, 2020.” (Lynch ¶ 5.) Although Nahass declares that the City of LA does not own the pipe, which is the alleged source of the water flow down the streets based upon the responses to written discovery, notably Nahass’ affidavit makes no mention of who controlled the water. The City of LA argues in its moving papers that it controlled neither the pipe nor the “water system” at issue. However, the City of LA provides no evidence addressing the water system, control of the water, or the FAC’s allegation that the City allowed a continuous stream of water to flow onto Manson Avenue, such that it eventually pooled into the City of Calabasas to cause Plaintiff harm. Lynch’s declaration merely declares that the City does not own the specific portion where the incident took place. The City of LA fails to provide any evidence of what portions of the streets it does actually own. The City provides no evidence by affidavit or otherwise that it does not own, maintain, or control Manson Avenue, such that it owed no duty to Plaintiff to address water continuously flowing through this street to contribute to Plaintiff’s harm.   As cited by Plaintiff, Government Code § 830(a) provides: ““Dangerous condition” means a condition of property that creates a substantial (as distinguished from a minor, trivial or insignificant) risk of injury when such property or adjacent property is used with due care in a manner in which it is reasonably foreseeable that it will be used.” The City of LA provides evidence that it does not own the property at the water’s entry point and the property in which the water ultimately pooled in the City of Calabasas. However, the City fails to disclaim its ownership, control, and management over the water because its evidence focuses only on the physical structure of the pipe and the pipe’s physical location. Further, the City has failed to demonstrate, with any evidence, that a dangerous condition did not exist on its property where the water flowed through, or that it had neither actual or constructive notice of the condition. The City of LA has not addressed all the issues identified in the operative complaint, and therefore fails to meet its prima facie burden that it owed no duty to Plaintiff to control the continuous flow of water cutting through its property. Because the City has not met its initial burden of production, Plaintiff need not make any showing of the existence of a triable issue of material fact.  IV. CONCLUSION  Based on the foregoing, the City of LA’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED.    Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 1st day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court    