 Case Number:  21STCV36760    Hearing Date:   May 2, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  JOHN WESLEY BEMBRY, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  AUDRINA ROSE CARDENAS, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 21STCV36760  [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  May 2, 2024  I. BACKGROUND Defendants Audrina Rose Cardenas and Amparo Soria (collectively, “Defendants”) move to compel plaintiff John Wesley Bembry (“Plaintiff”) to appear for his deposition and to pay monetary sanctions.  On June 14, 2023, Defendants noticed Plaintiff’s deposition for September 22, 2023. The deposition was taken off-calendar in order for the parties to meet and confer regarding Plaintiff’s written discovery responses. Defense counsel emailed to propose new dates to take Plaintiff’s deposition, and after not hearing from Plaintiff’s counsel, Defendants served a second deposition notice for January 26, 2024. No objections or any appearances were made on January 26, 2024, and defense counsel took a certificate of non-appearance. Trial is currently set for September 17, 2024, and Defendants contend they will be greatly prejudiced if they are not given the opportunity to take Plaintiff’s deposition. In opposition, Plaintiff’s counsel concedes that Defendants have the right to take Plaintiff’s deposition. However, Plaintiff’s counsel avers that they have continually expressed to Defendants that they are unable to reach Plaintiff despite numerous attempts to contact Plaintiff. On January 11, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel informed defense counsel that they would be withdrawing from the case. Further, Plaintiff’s counsel argues that they did object based on Plaintiff’s unavailability for the unilaterally set deposition, and that there is no justification for sanctions.  As of April 25, 2024, no reply was filed.  II. MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION CCP § 2025.450(a) provides, “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”  CCP § 2025.450 requires the Court to compel the deposition unless it finds a valid objection was served under §2025.410. Although the Court is sympathetic to Plaintiff’s counsel’s inability to reach Plaintiff, Plaintiff’s own failure to communicate with his counsel (and apparent absence in this action) does not constitute a valid objection to a properly served deposition notice. Because there is no evidence that Plaintiff served any valid objections to the deposition notice, and his deposition has not proceeded since the filing of the motion, Defendants’ motion to compel is therefore GRANTED. (CCP § 2025.450(a).)  Plaintiff is ordered to appear for his deposition at a date, time, and location to be noticed by Defendants, but Defendants must give Plaintiff at least ten days’ notice of the deposition (notice extended per Code if by other than personal service). In terms of service of the deposition notice related to this Order, the Court notes that Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be relieved as counsel was granted on April 30, 2024. The ruling on Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion for relief will be effective upon filing proof of service of that final order. (Min. Order, April 30, 2024.)   III. SANCTIONS CCP § 2025.450(g)(1) requires the court to impose sanctions unless it finds the deponent acted with substantial justification or there are circumstances that render imposition of sanctions unjust. Defendants request $2,486.80 against Plaintiff and his counsel. Given that Defendants were clearly informed that Plaintiff’s counsel could locate or contact Plaintiff, the Court will not impose any sanctions against Plaintiff’s counsel absent direct evidence they in fact had the ability to contact Plaintiff.  A court has discretion to award sanctions that are “suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks” but they should not be punitive in nature or levied for the purposes of punishing an offending party. (Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.)  Defendants are awarded $250 total for the motion. Additionally, Defendants are awarded one motion filing fee of $60 and $426.80 for the court reporter’s certificate of nonappearance, as costs.  Sanctions are imposed against Plaintiff only. Plaintiff is ordered to pay sanctions to Defendants, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $736.80, within twenty (20) days.  Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 1st day of May 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   