  Case Number:  24STCV06633    Hearing Date:   July 29, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MIGUEL ESPARZA, et al. 
  
        
  vs.
 
ADVANCED SYSTEMS TECHNOLOGY SPRAY DEPOT,
  LLC dba SPRAYERDEPOT.COM, et al. 
  


 Case
  No.:  24STCV06633   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 29, 2024




 
Defendant’s
demurrer is OVERRULED. 
 
            On 3/18/2024, Plaintiff Miguel Esparaza (Plaintiff) filed
suit against Advanced Systems Technology Spray Depot d/b/a Sprayerdepot.com
alleging a violation of the California Invasion of Privacy Act (CIPA). 
 
            Now, Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s Complaint.
 
Factual Background
 
            Defendant sells sprayers, parts, and accessories to
consumers across the country, and runs a website to facilitate these sales. As
part of this website, Defendant includes a website chat feature. Plaintiff
alleges that he visited Defendant’s website and conducted a brief conversation
through the website chat feature. Plaintiff alleges that he was not advised
that the chat was monitored, intercepted, or recorded. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant argues that Plaintiff cannot state a claim for
violation of CIPA because “Plaintiff ignores the vast majority of decisions
holding that Penal Code Section 631(a) 1 does not apply to website chats; does
not apply to communications not intercepted in transit; does not apply where
the content of the communication is not at issue; and does not apply to
communications recorded by a party to the communication or their agent.”
(Demurrer, 3: 8-12.)
 
            However, by Defendant’s own admission, there is case law
which has interpreted the alleged conduct here to fall within the scope of
CIPA. The Court declines to determine at the pleading stage that there can be
no violation of CIPA here. This is especially true given that such a
determination will necessarily rely on factual determinations, such as whether
or not the recording party has an interest in the content or meaning of the
chats within the meaning of section 631.
 
            Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is
overruled.  
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 