

Hearing Date:             January
30, 2024
Case Name:                Desai
v. Reliant Real Estate Management 
Case No.:                    23STCV26668
Matter:                        Motion
to Transfer Venue
Moving Party:             Defendant
Reliant Real Estate Management, Inc.

Responding
Party:      Plaintiffs Sahil Desai, Arnold
Baek, Sean Coughlin, Christopher Dziubak, Morgan Callahan, Luis Lopez, Ra Moeun
and James Turner


Tentative Ruling:      The Motion to Transfer Venue is granted. 

 
BACKGROUND
 
This is action
for alleged violations of the Investigative Consumer Reporting Agencies Act
(ICRAA). Plaintiffs Sahil Desai, Arnold Baek, Sean Coughlin, Christopher
Dziubak, Morgan Callahan, Luis Lopez, Ra Moeun and James Turner (Plaintiffs) allege
that Defendant Reliant Real Estate Management, Inc. (Defendant) failed to
provide copies of the investigative reports to Plaintiffs during their application
for tenancy. Plaintiffs assert causes of action against Defendant for (1.) Violations
of the ICRAA, (2.) Invasion of Privacy and (3.) Declaratory Relief.
 
Now, Defendant moves for an order
transferring this action to the Orange County Superior Court or, in the
alternative, to the “Santa Monica County Superior Court.”[1]
 Plaintiffs oppose the motion to transfer
within Los Angeles County, but do not address the motion to transfer venue to
Orange County.  
 
The motion to transfer venue to
Orange County is granted. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“Venue is determined based on the complaint on
file at the time the motion to change venue is made.” (Brown v. Superior
Court (1984) 37 Cal.3d 477, 482.) 
 
The general rule governing venue is set forth
in the first sentence of Code of Civil Procedure section 395, subdivision (a),
which states, “[e]xcept as otherwise provided by law and subject to the power
of the court to transfer actions or proceedings as provided in this title, the
superior court in the county where the defendants or some of them reside at the
commencement of the action is the proper court for the trial of the action.”
 
The second sentence of subdivision (a)
provides an exception to the general rule and states, in pertinent part, “[i]f
the action is for injury to person or personal property ... from wrongful act
or negligence, the superior court in either the county where the injury occurs
... or the county where the defendants, or some of them reside at the
commencement of the action, is a proper court.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 395, subd.
(a).) Thus, where a claim is “for injury to person,” the plaintiff has a choice
with respect to venue—either “where the injury occur[ed]” or where the
defendant resides. (Ibid.)
 
“The moving party must overcome the
presumption that the plaintiff has selected the proper venue. Thus, ‘[i]t is
the moving defendant's burden to demonstrate that the
plaintiff's venue selection is not proper under any of the statutory grounds.”’
(Fontaine v. Superior Court (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 830, 836; Bechtel
Corp. v. Superior Court (1973) 33 Cal.App.3d 405, 407, fn. 1; Battaglia
Enterprises, Inc. v. Superior Court (2013) 215 Cal.App.4th 309, 314 [“The
burden rests on the party seeking a change of venue to defeat the plaintiff's
presumptively correct choice of court.”].) 
 
“[A] motion for change of venue must satisfy
two requirements: (1) it must be shown the action is proper in the county to
which the movant seeks transfer; and (2) it must be shown the county in which
the action was filed was improper under any applicable theory.” (La Mirada
Community Hospital v. Superior Court (1967) 249 Cal.App.2d 39, 42.)
 
Additionally, if the court determines the
designated court is the proper court, it retains discretionary authority to
transfer the action “[w]hen the convenience of witnesses and the ends of
justice would be promoted by the change.” (Civ. Code Proc., § 397, subd. (c).)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
First, Defendant argues Orange
County is the proper venue and transfer is mandatory based on Defendant’s
residence. In the alternative, Defendant requests the Court exercise its
discretionary authority and transfer the action to the Santa Monica courthouse
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 397, subdivision (c). 
 
The Opposition does not address the
request to transfer venue to Orange County at all. The Opposition only opposes
Defendant’s request to transfer “venue” to the Santa Monica courthouse.  


Code of Civil Procedure section 395.5 is California's
special venue provision in cases against corporations. Section 395.5 states: “A
corporation or association may be sued in the county where the contract is made
or is to be performed, or where the obligation or liability arises, or the
breach occurs; or in the county where the principal place of business of such
corporation is situated, subject to the power of the court to change the place
of trial as in other cases.” This provision encompasses transitory claims
sounding in contract and tort. (Mission Imports, Inc. v. Superior Court,
supra, 31 Cal.3d at 927–928.)
 
In support of the motion to transfer venue, Defendant
submits evidence that it is a California corporation with its principal place
of business in Santa Ana, California (which is located in Orange County); additionally,
Defendant’s officers and directors reside in Tustin and Santa Ana, and its
agent is stationed in La Quinta, California. (Valdivia Decl., ¶¶ 2-3;
RJN Exs. A-B.) 
 
Thus, Defendant has met its burden
of demonstrating that Orange County is a proper venue. 
 
Now, as stated above, when the defendant is a
corporation, as is the case here, it has the burden of negativing all the five
possible bases of venue articulated in section 395.5. (Fontaine v. Superior
Court, supra, 175 Cal.App.4th at 836; Karson Industries, Inc. v. Superior Court (1969) 273 Cal.App.2d 7, 8-9 [If venue is proper in more than one
county, a defendant seeking to change venue must do more than merely show
residence in another county; instead, the defendant bears the burden of
“negating the propriety of venue as laid on all possible grounds.”
[italics in original]].) Those bases, in addition to principal place of
business, are county where the contract is made or to be performed or where the
obligation or liability arises or breach occurs. (Code Civ. Proc., § 395.5.) 
 
On October 31, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed the Complaint in the Central District of the Los Angeles County Superior
Court, asserting causes of action against Defendant for Violation of the ICRAA,
Invasion of Privacy and Declaratory Relief. (Compl., ¶ 1).
 
The Complaint alleges that Defendant owns,
manages and operates several multi-family rental properties throughout
California, of which five are at issue in this action: (1.) the Roy Apartments
located in West Los Angeles; (2.) the Paradise Garden Apartments located in
Long Beach; (3.) the Tribeca Urban Apartments located in Marina del Rey; (4.)
the Desert Boutique Apartment located in Palm Springs; and (5.) the Whiffle
Tree Apartments located in Huntington Beach (collectively, the Properties).
(Compl., ¶¶ 14, 20).
 
Here, the Complaint arises from Defendant’s
action of allegedly obtaining at least two investigative consumer reports about
Plaintiffs without complying with ICRAA’s legal requirements. (Compl., ¶ 27.)
These reports included (1.) a criminal search report, (2.) a tenant performance
profile report, and (3.) a character and fitness report. (Compl., ¶ 27).
Defendant’s “Application” for residency purportedly failed to give Plaintiffs’
an option to obtain a copy of the report and corresponding consent forms. (Compl.,
¶¶ 28, 31, 36.)
 
Based on these allegations, the Complaint
claims are based on statute and common law tort claims related to privacy
rights. The Complaint does not arise from and is not based on a contract. Thus,
the grounds for venue based on “where the contract is made or is to be
performed” does not apply. (See e.g., Dow AgroSciences LLC v. Superior Court
(2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 1067, 1073 [“The first venue option provided in section
395.5 does not apply because there is no underlying contract at issue in this
case.”].) Based on this statutory ground of Section 395.5, Los Angeles County
is not a proper venue under the first venue option.
 
However, Defendant does not address
the second portion of this statute, which permits   a corporation
to be sued in the county where the obligation or liability arises or the breach
occurs. (Code Civ. Proc., § 395.5; see also Bechtel Corp. v. Superior Court
(1973) 33 Cal.App.3d 405, 411, fn. 5 [“[C]orporation may be sued in the county
where the obligation or liability arises or the breach occurs, i.e., the place
of injury in a negligence action . . .”].) That is, under section 395.5, venue is proper against
the business-entities where the “liability arises.” “For purposes of laying
venue, a liability ‘arises' where the injury occurs. [Citations.] Injury ‘
“means a wrongful invasion of legal rights.” ‘ [Citations.]” (Black Diamond
Asphalt, Inc. v. Superior Court (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 166, 172.)
 
Here, some of the alleged misconduct
occurred in connection with an application for rental of real property located
in West Los Angeles – at least as to some of the Plaintiffs. As
such, it appears that venue in Los Angeles County may be proper for some of
the Plaintiffs. 
 
 “Where
the defendant is entitled to a change of venue as to one cause of action, the
entire action is transferred.” (Gallin v. Superior Court (1991) 230
Cal.App.3d 541, 545; (Jhirmack Enterprises, Inc. v. Superior Court
(1979) 96 Cal.App.3d 715, 720 [“[W]hen a complaint states multiple causes of
action, a defendant who is entitled to a change of venue as to one cause is
entitled to a transfer of the entire action.”].)
 
Here, venue in Los Angeles County
is not proper as to all causes of action. That is, causes of action alleged by
some Plaintiffs – for instance, the claims brought by Plaintiff Luis Lopez (a
prospective tenant and resident at the Desert Boutique Apartments located in Palm
Springs) – did not “arise” in Los Angeles County. (Compl., ¶¶ 7, 11.)
 
Accordingly, Defendant has carried its
burden on this motion to demonstrate that the only proper venue for all causes
of action is Orange County. 
 
 
Alternatively, Defendant requests the Court
exercise its discretion and transfer venue to “Santa Monica County Superior
Court” pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 397, subdivision (c). This
motion is faulty for reasons beyond misnaming the transferee court. It should
not have been included with a motion to transfer venue.  If this were the proper court to hear the
motion to transfer within the County, the Court would deny it; but it is not
the proper court.  In any event, the
matter is moot, because the Court grants the change of venue to Orange
County.  But counsel should be familiar
with the Court’s rules regarding transfers.
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 397,
subdivision (c), provides the trial court may change the place of trial “[w]hen
the convenience of witnesses and the ends of justice would be promoted by the
change.” 
 
As the Opposition notes, Code of Civil
Procedure section 397, subdivision (c), does not apply where Defendant is
seeking a transfer to a different “district” court within the same county. Such a
transfer is governed by Code of Civil Procedure section 402, subdivision (b),
and Los Angeles County Court Rule 2.3. Code of Civil Procedure section 402,
subdivision, provides: “A superior court may transfer an action or proceeding filed
in one location to another location of the superior court.” 
 
A motion to transfer a civil case within Los
Angeles County must be made to the Supervising Judge of the Civil Division, not
to the judge assigned to it.  (LA County
rule 2.3, subd. (b)(2).) Thus, Defendant filed this intra-county transfer
before the wrong bench officer.  Second, potential
grounds for a transfer within the County are for the convenience of witnesses
and to promote the ends of justice.  Defendant
fails to identify the witnesses whose convenience  should be considered. (Ibid.)  Finally, Plaintiffs’ opposition misquotes
Los Angeles County Court Rule 2.1.  Both
sides made a hash of the motion to transfer within the County.  The motion to transfer to Santa Monica is
moot.
 
Conclusion
 
 The
motion to transfer venue to Orange County is granted.  All hearings in this Court are vacated.


