  Case Number:  23PSCV03635    Hearing Date:   August 14, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant Vincent Reyes Vargas’s Motion to
Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiff Jewell Victoria Ramirez
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant Vincent Reyes Vargas’s Motion to
Strike Portions of Plaintiff’s Complaint is DENIED.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a personal injury action arising from a motor
vehicle collision. In December 2021, Plaintiff Jewell Victoria Ramirez was
involved in a motor vehicle collision with Defendant Vincent Reyes Vargas on
Interstate 10 in West Covina. At the time of the collision, Ramirez alleges
Reyes Vargas was under the influence of alcohol.
 
On November 21, 2023, Ramirez filed a complaint against
Reyes Vargas and Does 1-50, alleging a single cause of action for motor vehicle
negligence.
 
On May 24, 2024, Reyes Vargas filed the
present motion. On July 30, 2024, the court continued the hearing on the motion
in order for parties to further meet and confer. On August 1, 2024, Reyes
Vargas’s counsel telephonically met and conferred with Ramirez’s counsel. (Park
Amend. Suppl. Decl., ¶ 3(i).)
 
A hearing on the present motion is set for August
14, 2024, along with a case management conference.
 
ANALYSIS
Reyes Vargas moves to strike punitive damages
from Ramirez’s Complaint. For the following reasons, the court DENIES Reyes Vargas’ motion.
 
Legal Standard

Motion to Strike
 
Upon a party’s motion or the court’s own
motion, the court may strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a).) The court may also “[s]trike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 436, subd. (b).) “The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face
of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to
take judicial notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437, subd. (a).)
 
An immaterial or irrelevant allegation
includes “(1) An allegation that is not essential to the statement of a claim
or defense,” “(2) An allegation that is neither pertinent to nor supported
by an otherwise sufficient claim or defense,” or “(3) A demand for
judgment requesting relief not supported by the allegations of the complaint or
cross-complaint.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 431.10.)
 
Punitive Damages
 
Civil Code section 3294 allows punitive damages when a
plaintiff establishes by clear and convincing evidence that a defendant is
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) For the
purposes of determining punitive damages, malice is defined as “conduct which
is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable
conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious
disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.
(c)(1).) Oppression is defined as “despicable conduct that subjects a person to
cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.”
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) Lastly, fraud is defined as “an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code,
§ 3294, subd. (c)(3).)
 
“In addition to the requirement that the operative
complaint set forth the elements as stated in section 3294, it must include
specific factual allegations showing that defendant’s conduct was oppressive,
fraudulent, or malicious to support a claim for punitive damages.” (Today’s
IV, Inc. v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (2022)
83 Cal.App.5th 1137, 1193.) Furthermore, “[p]unitive damages may not be pleaded generally.” (Ibid.)
 
Discussion

In this case, the Complaint alleges Reyes
Vargas was operating a motor vehicle at unsafe speeds while under the influence
of alcohol. (Complaint, p. 5.) Reyes Vargas argues the Complaint’s allegations
of intoxication are insufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.
(Motion, p, 4:21-5:14.) In support, Reyes Vargas cites Pelletti v. Membrila (1965)
234 Cal.App.2d 606 (Pelletti) for the rule that “intoxication by itself
is insufficient evidence to support a charge of wilful [m]isconduct.” (Id.,
at p. 612.) The stated reasoning for this rule is that “[i]t is, of course,
possible for an intoxicated person to operate a motor vehicle without reckless
abandon, although, unfortunately, too many times human experience is to the
contrary.” (Ibid.)
 
But in Taylor v. Superior Court (1979)
24 Cal.3d 890 (Taylor), our supreme court rejected this reasoning,
stating “[o]ne who wilfully consumes alcoholic beverages to the point of
intoxication, knowing that he thereafter must operate a motor vehicle, thereby
combining sharply impaired physical and mental faculties with a vehicle capable
of great force and speed, reasonably may be held to exhibit a conscious
disregard of the safety of others.” (Id., at p. 897.) While the driver
in Taylor had a history of prior drunk driving incidents, the court
rejected this is as a determining factor. (Id., at p. 896.) 
 
Likewise, here, this court  finds the Complaint adequately establishes
Reyes Vargas consciously disregarded the risk of subjecting others to
significant bodily injury by operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated. Furthermore,
it not only alleges Reyes Vargas was operating a vehicle while intoxicated, but
also that Reyes Vargas was doing so at unsafe speeds.
 
Accordingly, Reyes Vargas’ motion is DENIED.
 
CONCLUSION

Based on the
foregoing, Reyes Vargas’ motion to
strike punitive damages from the Complaint is DENIED.