 Case Number:  23STCP02828    Hearing Date:   March 21, 2024    Dept:  82 


 
SUSAN TEJEDA,  


 
 
 
Petitioner,


 
 
 
 
 
Case No.
 


 
 
 
 
 
23STCP02828




vs.
 
CALIFORNIA UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE APPEALS BOARD,
 


 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Respondent.
 


[TENTATIVE] RULING ON PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDATE
 
Dept. 82 (Hon. Curtis A. Kin)
 
 




 


 


 


 



Petitioner
Susan Tejeda petitions for a writ of mandate directing respondent California
Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board to set aside its decision denying her
Pandemic Unemployment Assistance benefits. 
 
I.       Factual Background
 
A.          
CARES
Act
 
            “In March 2020, the federal
government enacted the so-called ‘CARES Act’ (the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and
Economic Security Act), which, among other things, provided for direct economic
assistance payments to certain Americans.” (Cerletti v. Newsom (2021) 71
Cal.App.5th 760, 763, fn. 1, citing Pub. L. No. 116-136, § 2201 (Mar. 27, 2020)
134 Stat. 281.) The CARES Act created the Pandemic Unemployment Assistance
(“PUA”) program, which provided unemployment benefits to individuals who were
unemployed due to COVID-19 and who were not eligible for regular unemployment
benefits, including self-employed and gig workers. (15 U.S.C. § 9021.) The
federal government provided PUA benefits through agreements with states which
processed applications, made eligibility determinations, and administered the
benefits. (15 U.S.C. § 9021(f).)
 
B.          
Petitioner’s
PUA Claim
 
In
August 2020, petitioner filed a claim for unemployment benefits with the
Employment Development Department (“EDD”). (AR 42, 73.) In her application,
petitioner certified that her usual occupation was a medical administrative assistant,
and her 2019 income was $4,800. (AR 41.) Petitioner self-certified via the EDD
online portal that she was an independent contractor with reportable income who
was unable to work due to COVID-19 public health emergency. (AR 40.) EDD
determined that she was not eligible for regular unemployment benefits, and petitioner
was approved for PUA benefits with a weekly benefit amount of $167. (AR 41.)
 
In
November 2021, EDD sent petitioner a request for substantiation of employment
via email. (AR 35.) Petitioner was advised that, if proof was not received,
benefits would terminate on February 12, 2022. (AR 41.) On February 14, 2022,
EDD found that petitioner was disqualified for PUA benefits based on a failure
to substantiate her self-employment and sent a letter to petitioner informing
her of the determination. (AR 2). In its explanation, EDD cited petitioner’s failure
to provide proof of employment. (AR 2.) Petitioner appealed the determination
to respondent California Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board (“CUIAB”). (AR
4.) In her appeal letter, petitioner stated that she had attempted to locate
documentation of employment but was unable to do so because she was paid in
cash and did not request receipts. (AR 5.)
 
C.          
Administrative
Hearing
 
On
August 3, 2022, an administrative law judge (“ALJ”) conducted a hearing in
reference to petitioner’s appeal. (AR 15.) During the hearing, the ALJ
considered the issue of whether petitioner submitted sufficient documentation
to substantiate her employment or self-employment pursuant to 20 Code of
Federal Regulations section 625.6(e)(2) and the CARES Act section
2102(a)(3)(A)(iii). (AR 18.) 
 
Petitioner
testified that she was employed as a caregiver for a child approximately 3-4
years old for approximately one year. (AR 21.) Typically, she would receive
$200 every two weeks as wages. (AR 22.) After petitioner was unable to provide
documentation, the ALJ explained that the CARES Act did not make any exceptions
for requirement to provide documentation. (AR 20, 23.) When the ALJ requested
anything to substantiate petitioner’s claim, even text messages, petitioner
testified that she did not have anything, did not even know where her alleged
former employer lived, and no longer had a contact number for the former
employer. (AR 23-24.) When asked if there was anyone who observed petitioner
watch the child, petitioner referenced one individual who would come see her,
but petitioner thought that person was incapacitated due to a stroke. (AR 26.)
Petitioner, who she described as her “compadre,” stated she could try to reach
out to this individual. (AR 26.) The ALJ agreed to keep the record open for a
week to allow time for petitioner to reach out to her “compadre.” (AR 26.) Two
days later, petitioner emailed CUIAB a letter signed by Irma Tejeda that stated
she saw petitioner babysitting a young boy on several occasions. (AR 56.)
Shortly thereafter, the ALJ closed the record and admitted the letter into
evidence. (AR 16.)
 
 
 
D.          
Administrative
Decision
 
In
a decision released September 2022, the ALJ affirmed the EDD’s determination of
petitioner’s ineligibility for PUA benefits. (AR 63.) In his reasoning, the ALJ
outlined the two different purposes for which proof of employment is used under
the controlling statutes. (AR 61.) CARES Act section 2102(a)(3)(A)(iii)
requires documentation to substantiate the employment/self-employment which was
affected by the pandemic, and 20 Code of Federal Regulations section
625.6(e)(2) requires documentation to substantiate the
employment/self-employment which generated the wages that the claimant reported
to the department to establish the weekly benefit amount. (AR 62.) The ALJ
found the signed letter from Irma Tejeda insufficient to satisfy either requirement.
(AR 62.) 
 
E.          
CUIAB
Appeal
 
Petitioner
appealed the ALJ’s decision. (AR 66.) In her appeal, petitioner attached a
notarized letter from Irma Tejeda, stating that she is petitioner’s sister,
that she observed petitioner provide childcare to a young boy, and that she knew
that petitioner received payment for the service because petitioner paid her for
petitioner’s half of their bills. (AR 67.) When CUIAB affirmed the ALJ’s
decision, it determined that the ALJ properly evaluated the credibility of
petitioner’s testimony as well as the weight of the evidence pursuant to
Evidence Code sections 412 and 780. (AR 75.) Upon consideration of all the
submitted evidence, the CUIAB found petitioner’s evidence insufficient and
affirmed the ALJ’s decision. (AR 75.)
 
II.      Procedural History
 
            On
August 17, 2023, petitioner Susan Tejeda filed a Petition for Writ of Mandate. On
November 14, 2023, respondent California Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board filed
an Answer.
 
            On
January 2, 2024, petitioner filed an opening brief. On February 20, 2024, respondent
filed an opposition. On March 4, 2024, petitioner filed a reply.[1] The
Court has received a hard copy of the administrative record. 
 


III.     Standard of Review
 
Under CCP § 1094.5(b),
the pertinent issues are whether the respondent has proceeded without
jurisdiction, whether there was a fair trial, and whether there was a
prejudicial abuse of discretion. An abuse of discretion is established if the
agency has not proceeded in the manner required by law, the decision is not
supported by the findings, or the findings are not supported by the evidence.
(CCP § 1094.5(b).)
 
The Court exercises its
independent judgment in reviewing denials of applications for public
assistance. (See Norasingh v. Lightbourne (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th 740,
752.) Under the independent judgment test, “the trial court not only examines
the administrative record for errors of law, but also exercises its independent
judgment upon the evidence disclosed in a limited trial de novo.” (Bixby v. Pierno (1971) 4 Cal.3d 130, 143.) The court
must draw its own reasonable inferences from the evidence and make its own
credibility determinations. (Morrison v.
Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles Board of Commissioners (2003)
107 Cal. App. 4th 860, 868.)  
 
An agency is presumed to
have regularly performed its official duties. (Evid. Code § 664.) “In
exercising its independent judgment, a trial court must afford a strong
presumption of correctness concerning the administrative findings, and the
party challenging the administrative decision bears the burden of convincing
the court that the administrative findings are contrary to the weight of the
evidence.”  (Fukuda v. City of Angels (1999) 20 Cal.4th 805, 817, internal
quotations omitted.) 
 
A reviewing court “will
not act as counsel for either party to an appeal and will not assume the task
of initiating and prosecuting a search of the record for any purpose of
discovering errors not pointed out in the briefs.” (Fox v. Erickson (1950) 99 Cal.App.2d 740, 742.) When an appellant
challenges “‘the sufficiency of the evidence, all material evidence on the
point must be set forth and not merely their own evidence.” (Toigo v. Town
of Ross (1998) 70 Cal.App.4th 309, 317.) 

 
“On questions of law
arising in mandate proceedings, [the court] exercise[s] independent judgment.’”
(Christensen v. Lightbourne (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 1239, 1251.) The
interpretation of statute or regulation is a question of law. (See State
Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. v. Quackenbush (1999) 77 Cal.App.4th 65, 77.)
 
IV.     Analysis
 
            As a preliminary matter, while petitioner
represents herself in this proceeding, the Court must hold her to the same
standards as a party represented by an attorney. “Under the law, a party may
choose to act as his or her own attorney. [Citations.] ‘[S]uch a party is to be
treated like any other party and is entitled to the same, but no greater
consideration than other litigants and attorneys. [Citation.]’ [Citation.]
Thus, as is the case with attorneys, pro. per. litigants must follow correct
rules of procedure.” (Nwosu v. Uba (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 1229, 1246-47.)
“[M]ere self-representation is not a ground for exceptionally lenient
treatment.” (Rappleyea v. Campbell (1994) 8 Cal.4th 975, 984.)
 
            The fundamental issue in this
petition is whether the documentation submitted by petitioner in support of her
application for PUA benefits is adequate to substantiate her employment. The
ALJ’s decision, which respondent CUIAB affirmed, relied on two laws: (1) CARES
Act section 2102(a)(3)(A)(iii); and (2) Code of Federal Regulations, title 20,
section 625.6(e)(2). (AR 62, 76.) 
 
            CARES Act section 2102, codified in
15 United States Code section 9021, states in pertinent part:
 
(a)
Definitions. In this section…
(3)
Covered individual
The
term “covered individual”--
(A)
means an individual who--
(i)
is not eligible for regular compensation…
(ii)
provides self-certification that the individual...is unemployed, partially unemployed,
or unable or unavailable to work because [employment affected by Covid-19
pandemic]; and
(iii)
provides documentation to substantiate employment or self-employment or the
planned commencement of employment or self- employment....
 
(15
U.S.C. § 9021(a)(3)(A)(i-iii).) 
 
On
January 8, 2021, through Unemployment Insurance Program Letter (“UIPL”) No.
16-20, Change 4, the United States Department of Labor issued guidance to state
workforce agencies regarding the types of acceptable documentation. (See UIPL
16-20, Change 4, accessed at https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/ETA/advisories/UIPL/2021/UIPL_16-20_Change_4.pdf.)
According to the guidance, “proof of employment includes, but is not limited
to, paycheck stubs, earnings and leave statements showing the employer’s name and
address, and W-2 forms when available.” (UIPL 16-20, Change 4 at I-10.) “Proof
of self-employment includes, but is not limited to, state or Federal employer
identification numbers, business licenses, tax returns, business receipts, and
signed affidavits from persons verifying the individual’s self-employment.” (Ibid.)



Code
of Federal Regulations, title 20, section 625.6(e)(2) states, in relevant part:

 
(e)
The State agency shall immediately determine…a weekly amount…based on the
individual’s statement of employment or self-employment preceding the
individual’s unemployment that was a direct result of the major disaster, and
wages earned or paid for such employment or self-employment. An immediate
determination of a weekly amount shall also be made where…the individual
submits documentation substantiating employment or self-employment and wages
earned or paid for such employment or self-employment…. An immediate
determination shall also be made based on the individual’s statement or in
conjunction with the submittal of documentation in those cases where the
individual was to commence employment or self-employment on or after the date
the major disaster began but was prevented from doing so as a direct result of
the disaster.
(1)
In the case of a weekly amount determined in accordance with paragraph (e) of
this section, based only on the individual’s statement of earnings, the
individual shall furnish documentation to substantiate the employment or
self-employment or wages earned from or paid for such employment or
self-employment or documentation to support that the individual was to commence
employment or self-employment on or after the date the major disaster began….
(2)
Any individual who fails to submit documentation to substantiate employment or
self-employment or the planned commencement of employment or self-employment in
accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section, shall be determined
ineligible….
 
(20
C.F.R. § 625.6(e)(1-2).) 
 
            During the administrative
proceedings, petitioner provided a letter and affidavit from her sister, Irma
Tejeda. (AR 56, 67.) The ALJ considered a letter from petitioner’s sister which
stated: 
 
I
am writing this letter to confirm that not only was I aware of Susan Tejeda babysitting
for Ms. Kay but I also witnessed her babysitting the young boy on several
occasions. I hope you can find this letter helpful. Thank you for your time.
 
(AR 56,
58, 62.) The ALJ noted that none of the documents presented indicated any net
income or revenue. (AR 58, 62.) 
 
            In connection with the appeal of the
ALJ’s decision, respondent CUIAB considered an affidavit from petitioner’s
sister, which stated the following: 
 
My
name is Irma Tejeda and I live with my sister Susan Tejeda. On an earlier date
of August 5, 2022 I submitted a letter on behalf of my sister confirming her employment
as a child care provider for Ms. Kay. I would come home from work and the young
boy Andy would be here and his mom shortly after would pick him up. At that
time that was my sister's source of income. Ms. Kay would pay her cash every
other week. I know this because that is how my sister helped me pay for her
half of the bills. Unfortunately right before the school closures Ms. Kay notified
my sister she no longer was going to need her services due to the Covid Pandemic
emergency and Ms. Kay no longer working. I declare what I am saying is true and
hope you will find this document helpful. [¶] Thank you for your time.
 
(AR 67,
73.) 
 
            As stated above, the federal
government charges the states with the responsibility of processing benefit
applications, making eligibility determinations, and administering the
benefits. (15 U.S.C. § 9021(f).) The federal government requires the state
agency, i.e., EDD, to determine a weekly amount of unemployment benefits
based on the applicant’s statement of employment or self-employment prior to
losing such employment and the wages earned from the employment that was
lost due to a major disaster, i.e., the COVID-19 pandemic. (20 C.F.R. §
625.6(e).) The federal government also requires an applicant’s statement of
earnings to be supported by documentation. (20 C.F.R. § 625.6(e).) Otherwise,
the applicant shall be deemed ineligible for unemployment benefits. (20 C.F.R.
§ 625.6(e)(2).)
 
            None of the evidence provided by
petitioner’s sister indicates the wages earned from petitioner’s
self-employment as a caregiver/babysitter which EDD could use to calculate a
weekly benefit amount. Instead, petitioner’s sister only averred that the
babysitting was petitioner’s only source of income, petitioner’s employer would
pay cash every other week, and petitioner would use the cash to pay for half of
her and her sister’s bills. (AR 67.) Petitioner’s sister did not mention how
much petitioner gave her during the period when petitioner was employed as a
babysitter.


            While petitioner testified during
the administrative hearing that her employer typically paid her every two weeks
(AR 22), petitioner’s testimony alone does not comply with the requirement from
Congress to support the wages earned from self-employment with documentation.
Even if petitioner may not have been required to file a tax return (Opening Br.
at 6), which federal guidance states may serve as documentation (UIPL 16-20,
Change 4 at I-10), Congress still requires documentation corroborating
petitioner’s wages before EDD can administer PUA benefits. 
            The Court notes that attached to the
petition was an affidavit from Francisco Hernandez, the person who petitioner
describes as her “compadre.” The letter from Mr. Hernandez was not part of the
administrative record. “In an administrative mandamus action, judicial review
is limited to matters in the administrative record. Additional evidence is
admissible only if it was not available at the time of the administrative
hearing or was excluded improperly from the record.” (Evans v. Department of
Motor Vehicles (1994) 21 Cal.App.4th 958, 977, citing Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5(e).)
Petitioner does not explain why the letter was not presented during the
administrative hearing. Although petitioner testified that Mr. Hernandez had a
stroke, she also testified that she would try calling him. (AR 26) The ALJ kept
the record open for a week to allow time for petitioner to provide additional
documents. (AR 26, 29.) Petitioner did not submit any letter from Mr. Hernandez
while the record was open. Accordingly, the letter from Mr. Hernandez is not
subject to consideration.
 
Even
if the Court were to consider Mr. Hernandez’s letter, it simply states that
petitioner’s employer would pay her cash every two weeks. Like the statements
from Irma Tejeda, Mr. Hernandez does not state how much petitioner earned.
Without any documentation quantifying petitioner’s earnings, federal law
requires denial of petitioner’s application for PUA benefits.
 
            Petitioner presents several other
arguments in the opening brief: (1) respondent failed to respond to the
petitioner within 30 days of service; (2) the ALJ was biased; (3) respondent
incorrectly stated in its decision that petitioner’s sister represented that
petitioner used the money for babysitting to pay for rent; (4) the transcript
is not complete because it does not mention another “compadre” by the name of
Javi; and (5) petitioner was not asked for documents corroborating earnings
when she applied for benefits. 
 
            With respect to the first argument,
petitioner served the petition on respondent by mail and acknowledgment of
receipt of service. (8/22/23 Proof of Service of Summons.) However, petitioner
does not present any signed acknowledgement of receipt of service indicating
when service of the summons was completed. (See Code Civ. Proc. §
415.30(c) [“Service of a summons pursuant to this section is deemed complete on
the date a written acknowledgement of receipt of summons is executed, if such
acknowledgement thereafter is returned to the sender”].  In any event, even if respondent’s Answer
were untimely, petitioner does not show she is entitled to the grant of her
petition on that basis.  Notably, a “writ
cannot be granted by default.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1088.) Further, “[t]he court
must, in every stage of an action, disregard any error, improper ruling,
instruction, or defect, in the pleadings or proceedings which, in the opinion
of said court, does not affect the substantial rights of the parties.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 475.) Insofar as the Answer was untimely, petitioner fails to show
how she was adversely impacted.
 
With
respect to the fifth argument, even if petitioner was not asked for documents
corroborating earnings when she applied for benefits, petitioner was provided
the opportunity to provide such documentation before the administrative hearing
(AR 35), after the administrative hearing and before the ALJ’s decision (AR
29), and before the appeal (AR 65). Petitioner failed to provide such
documentation in connection with any of the several opportunities afforded her.
 
            With respect to the second through
fourth arguments, even if petitioner’s assertions were true, petitioner does
not explain how they address the lack of documentation of earnings upon which
the denial of PUA benefits was affirmed. An abuse of discretion must be
prejudicial for writ of administrative mandate to issue. (CCP § 1094.5(b).) In
other words, even if petitioner’s arguments were true, petitioner has still
failed to provide documentation of her earnings—the absence of which requires
denial of her PUA benefits. 
 
V.      Conclusion
 
For
the foregoing reasons, the weight of the evidence supports denial of
petitioner’s Pandemic Unemployment Assistance benefits. Accordingly, the
petition is DENIED. Pursuant to Local Rule 3.231(n), respondent California Unemployment
Insurance Appeals Board shall prepare, serve, and ultimately file a
proposed judgment.
 


