 Case Number:  24SMCV00902    Hearing Date:   December 18, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   LYUDA KSENYCH,   Plaintiff, v.  VAHID ZAND, et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  24SMCV00902     Hearing Date:  December 18, 2024   [TENTATIVE] order RE:   defendants vahid zand and    niyousha eternadieh’s motions    to set aside default/default      judgment     BACKGROUND This is a construction defect case.  Plaintiff Lyuda Ksenych entered into a contract with Defendants Vahid Zand, Niyousha Eternadieh and Calcons, Inc. to perform construction work at her home.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants breached the contract by failing to complete the work on time.  The work was to be completed in two months, but Defendants took nearly 16 months.  Plaintiff also alleges Defendants damaged flooring, expensive stone, and cabinets during the installation process.  On these facts, the operative complaint alleges two claims for breach of contract and negligence.   Plaintiff served the Complaint on Defendant Enternadieh by personal service on March 17, 2024 and on Defendant Zand by substitute service on March 17, 2024.  Defendants did not respond.  Default was entered on August 23, 2024.   This hearing is on Defendants Zand and Eternadieh’s (“Moving Defendants’”) motions to set aside default.  Moving Defendants argue they did not file a responsive pleading because they had an understanding with Plaintiff’s former counsel that they would be dismissed from the Complaint.  Moving Defendants previously moved to set aside default, but the Court denied the motions without prejudice because Moving Defendants had not attached their proposed answer to their motions.  The motion now attaches a copy of the proposed answer.  (Ex. J to Motallebi Decl.)   LEGAL STANDARD Code Civ. Proc. §473, subd. (b)¿provides for two distinct types of relief from a default -- commonly differentiated as “discretionary” and “mandatory.”  “Under the¿discretionary relief provision, on a showing of ‘mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or¿excusable neglect,” the court has discretion to allow relief from default.  Under the mandatory relief provision, on the other hand, upon a showing by attorney declaration of ‘mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect,’ the court must vacate any ‘resulting default judgment or dismissal entered.’”  (Leader v. Health Industries of America, Inc.¿(2001) 89 Cal.App.4th 603, 615-616.)¿  Applications seeking relief under the mandatory provision of¿§473¿must be “accompanied by an attorney’s sworn affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., §473, subd. (b).)  The mandatory provision further adds that “whenever relief is granted based on an attorney’s affidavit of fault [the court shall] direct the attorney to pay reasonable compensatory legal fees and costs to opposing counsel or parties.” (Id.)   The application for relief must be made no more than six months after the judgment, dismissal, order, or proceeding was taken.  (Id.)  And an application for discretionary relief must be “accompanied by a copy of the answer or other pleading proposed to be filed therein”.  (Id.) “It is settled that the law favors a trial on the¿merits. . . and therefore liberally construes¿section¿473.”  (Bonzer v. City of Huntington Park (1993) 20 Cal.App.4th 1474, 1477.)  “Doubts in applying¿section 473 are resolved in favor of the party seeking¿relief from¿default. . . and if that party has moved promptly for¿default relief,¿only slight evidence will justify an order granting such¿relief.”  (Id. at 1477-78.)  DISCUSSION Moving Defendants’ motions to set aside default are timely.  Default was entered on August 23, 2024, and Moving Defendants filed their initial motions to set aside default on September 11, 2024, within six months of the entry of default.  Plaintiff argues that Moving Defendants’ motion is procedurally defective, because it seeks discretionary relief under Code Civ. Proc., §473, subd. (b) but fails to attach a copy of the answer or responsive pleading.  Plaintiff is wrong.  Moving Defendants’ motion does include a copy of the proposed answer.  (Ex. J to Motallebi Decl.)   The Court turns now to the merits of the motion.  The Court concludes that discretionary relief is warranted.  Counsel’s failure to file a responsive pleading was due to excusable neglect, based on Plaintiff’s attorney’s representation that Plaintiff would dismiss the claims against Defendants.   On or about May 15, 2024, defense counsel (Shahin Motallebi) served a meet and confer letter on Plaintiff’s counsel, Robert J. Enos, listing the deficiencies in the Complaint, as a prelude to filing a demurrer.  (Motallebi Decl. ¶ 2.)  Motallebi and Enos had a telephone call shortly thereafter, where Enos promised to drop Zand and Eternadieh from the lawsuit.  (Id. ¶ 4.)  On or about June 7, 2024, Motallebi received a call from Enos who stated to Motallebi that he had been busy with work and that he would drop the two individual defendants from the lawsuit as soon as possible.  (Id. ¶5.)    On or about July 31, 2024, Motallebi contacted Enos via email, asking about the two individual defendants who were supposed to be removed from the lawsuit.  (Id. ¶ 6; Ex. E to Motallebi Decl.)  Motallebi received an email from Enos’ office, informing him that Enos was no longer with the firm.  (Id. ¶ 7.)  Thereafter, Motallebi sent an email to Greg Wayland, who had taken over from Enos, and explained the situation.  (Id. ¶ 8.)  Wayland asked for proof of Enos’ statements, which Motallebi provided.  (Id. ¶¶ 9-10.)  Wayland then filed requests for entry of default against Zand and Etehardieh, which were entered by the Clerk on August 23, 2024.   Plaintiff argues that her prior attorney did not represent to Moving Defendants’ counsel that Plaintiff would dismiss Moving Defendants from this lawsuit. According to Plaintiff, the evidence submitted by Moving Defendants shows that Plaintiff’s prior handling attorney merely represented he would entertain the idea of dismissing Moving Defendants.  Not true.  Defense counsel has submitted a declaration attesting that Plaintiff’s prior attorney told him he would drop the two individual defendants from the lawsuit.  (Motallebi Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.)  This claim is supported by a contemporaneous email where defense counsel refers to Plaintiff’s prior attorney’s promise.  (Ex. E to Motallebi Decl.)        Meanwhile and notably, Plaintiff has not submitted a declaration from the prior handling attorney contradicting defense counsel’s assertions.  Instead, Plaintiff submits the declaration of an attorney (Alec Stroup) who was not involved in these prior discussions.  Stroup attests “I am informed and believe Plaintiff’s prior handling attorney and Defendant’s counsel spoke on the phone on June 7, 2024, but no resolution to Defendant’s counsel’s meet and confer letter was reached.”  (Stroup Decl. ¶7.)  The statement is not based on personal knowledge, and Stroup does not even state the basis of his information and belief.  Plaintiff therefore submits no evidence to refute defense counsel’s declaration.   The policy of the law is to have every case tried on its merits and that policy views with disfavor a party who, regardless of the merits, attempts to take advantage of the mistake, inadvertence, or neglect of his adversary. This policy is so strong that “any doubts in applying section 473 must be resolved in favor of the party seeking relief from default.”  (Elston v. City of Turlock (1985) 38 Cal.3d 227, 233; Slusher v. Durrer (1977) 69 Cal. App. 3d 747, 753.)  Given this strong policy and the presumption in favor of granting relief from default, the Court grants the motions to set aside default.   CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, the Court GRANTS the motions to set aside default.    DATED:  December 18, 2024   ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 