  Case Number:  22AHCV01370    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



GREG LEWIS, 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
COUNTY
  OF LOS ANGELES, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     CASE
  NO.: 22AHCV01370
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES’ DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST
  AMENDED COMPLAINT 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
November
  12, 2024



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
         On December
22, 2022, plaintiff Greg Lewis (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
defendant County of Los Angeles (“Defendant”), which includes Los Angeles
County Department of Children and Family Services (“DCFS”) (DCFS was erroneously
sued as a separate entity). Plaintiff also named Alma Flores (“Flores”) and
Christine Ramirez (“Ramirez”) as defendants. Plaintiff asserts causes of action
for violation of 42 U.S.C. § 1983, negligence per se, negligence, and violation
of Civil Code section 52.1 (“Bane Act”). The crux of Plaintiff’s action is the
wrongful removal of his three-month-old daughter, Charlotte, from his custody
on November 4, 2020. 
          On
May 15, 2023, Defendant filed a notice of removal to federal court. While the
action was pending in federal court, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint
(“FAC”). On April 16, 2024, the district court dismissed Plaintiff’s first and
second causes of action and remanded the remaining third and fourth state law
causes of action. 
On May 22, 2024, Defendant filed this
demurrer on the grounds that Plaintiff failed to comply with the claim
presentation requirements of Government Code section 911.2, et seq. Defendant
further demurs to the third and fourth causes of action because Plaintiff fails
to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for negligence per se
and negligence.  
On September 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed
an opposition brief. 
On September
25, 2024, Defendant filed a reply brief. 
On October 3, 2024, the Court continued
the hearing on Defendant’s demurrer because no copy of the operative FAC was on
file. 
On November 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
copy of the amended complaint (which conformed with the federal court’s ruling
dismissing the first and second causes of action). 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
A demurrer tests the legal sufficiency
of the pleadings and will be sustained only where the pleading is defective on
its face. (City of Atascadero v. Merrill
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 445, 459.) “We
treat the demurrer as admitting all material facts properly pleaded but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  We accept the factual allegations of the
complaint as true and also consider matters which may be judicially noticed.
[Citation.]” (Mitchell v. California
Department of Public Health (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1000, 1007; Del E. Webb Corp. v. Structural Materials
Co. (1981) 123 Cal.App.3d 593, 604 [“the facts alleged in the pleading are
deemed to be true, however improbable they may be”].) 
III.    DISCUSSION
Defendant first demurs to the FAC on
the grounds that Plaintiff failed to comply with the Government Tort Claims Act
and did not timely present a claim. A claim relating to a cause of action for
death or for injury to person shall be presented not later than six months
after the accrual of the cause of action. (Gov. Code, § 911.2.) The date of the
accrual of a cause of action to which a claim relates is the date upon which
the cause of action would be deemed to have accrued within the meaning of the
statute of limitations that would be applicable if the action were against a
private defendant. (Gov. Code, § 901.) Furthermore, a “cause of action accrues
when [it] is complete with all of its elements—those elements being wrongdoing,
harm, and causation.” (Pooshs v. Philip Morris USA, Inc. (2011) 51
Cal.4th 788, 797 [internal citation omitted].) 
Plaintiff alleges he filed his
prelitigation claim on March 24, 2022. (Amended Complaint, ¶ 16.) Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s claim accrued on November 4, 2020, when Charlotte was removed
from his custody, because the removal constitutes the allegedly illegal conduct.
(Demurrer, p. 5.) Therefore, Defendant contends, Plaintiff had to file his
litigation claim within 6 months of November 4, 2020. 
In opposition, Plaintiff asserts the
“delayed discovery rule” and argues that his claims did not accrue until
September 28, 2021, when the Los Angeles County Superior Court issued a final
order in his favor regarding custody of Charlotte. Under the discovery rule, a
cause of action begins to accrue when the aggrieved party discovers, or
reasonably should have discovered, the existence of the cause of action. (City
of Pasadena v. Superior Court (2017) 12 Cal.App.5th 1340, 1348-1349 [claim
accrued when plaintiff discovered or “reasonably should have discovered” that
she suffered a compensable injury].)
Plaintiff argues that his suspicion of
wrongful conduct could not be confirmed until the juvenile court held its
hearing and that filing a claim before the hearing would be based on “mere
suspicion absent any evidence.” However, the required contents of a
prelitigation claim do not include evidence. In fact, the statutory
requirements for a prelitigation claim explicitly anticipates situations where
a claimant may only have a “mere suspicion” of wrongdoing because it need only
include a description of the injury, damage or loss “so far as it may be known
at the time of presentation” and “if known”, the names of any employee or
employees causing the injury, damage, or loss. (Gov. Code, § 910.)  Furthermore, Defendant argues in its reply
brief that Plaintiff should have known that the removal was wrongful because,
two days prior to the removal, Plaintiff was allegedly advised by social
workers that everything was fine. (Reply, citing FAC ¶¶ 10-14.) Plaintiff also
alleges that when Charlotte was removed from Plaintiff’s custody, it was allegedly
done “pursuant to, and with a warrant and order from the Juvenile Dependency
Court based upon declarations of [the social workers] in direct contravention
of the stated facts [as alleged in Paragraph 13].” (FAC, ¶ 14.) 
It is possible that Plaintiff was
unable to determine the falsified basis for the warrant until September 28,
2021. Or perhaps Plaintiff, for some reason, actually did not realize that
Charlotte was wrongfully removed from his custody until the juvenile dependency
court awarded him sole custody on September 28, 2021.  However, the FAC does not allege any facts demonstrating
why no reasonable suspicion of wrongdoing could exist until September 28, 2021.
Accordingly, Plaintiff fails to allege sufficient allegations warranting the application
of the “delayed discovery” rule. 
Plaintiff additionally argues that he
was “duty-bound” to pursue the action in juvenile court such that the accrual
deadline was equitably tolled. However, the principles of equitable tolling
that may apply to statutes of limitations do not apply to the time periods
within which claims must be filed with a governmental agency. (Willis v.
City of Carlsbad (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 1104, 1121.) 
Since Plaintiff has failed to allege
facts demonstrating compliance with the Government Tort Claims Act or excusing his
noncompliance, the demurrer is sustained. 
IV.    CONCLUSION
Defendant’s demurrer to the Amended
Complaint is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated this 12th day of November 2024




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 