 Case Number:  23STCV26981    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  61 DANA VARON vs DAMULS 2244 LLC, et al.TENTATIVEDefendant Damuls 2244, LLC’s Motion for Further Sanctions against Plaintiff Dana Varon is DENIED.Plaintiff to give notice.DISCUSSIONThe court may impose a monetary sanction ordering that one engaging in the misuse of the discovery process, or any attorney advising that conduct, or both pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney's fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. The court may also impose this sanction on one unsuccessfully asserting that another has engaged in the misuse of the discovery process, or on any attorney who advised that assertion, or on both. If a monetary sanction is authorized by any provision of this title, the court shall impose that sanction unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.(Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030, subd. (a).)Defendant Damuls 2244, LLC (Defendant) seeks additional sanctions against Plaintiff Dana Varon (Plaintiff) based on Plaintiff’s failure to pay the $2,235.00 in monetary sanctions ordered by this court on May 15, 2024.No additional sanctions are appropriate. As Defendant notes in its own motion, sanctions orders are enforceable as money judgments. (Motion at p. 3.) As one court explained:Nor is a terminating sanction necessary in order to enforce a monetary order. Weil and Brown observe that many attorneys seem to be unaware that monetary sanction orders are enforceable through the execution of judgment laws. These orders have the force and effect of a money judgment, and are immediately enforceable through execution, except to the extent the trial court may order a stay of the sanction. Unawareness of this remedy may explain why terminating sanctions are often sought when monetary sanctions are unpaid.(Newland v. Superior Court (1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 608, 615, internal citations omitted.)Under this authority, there was no need to bring a second motion to enforce a sanctions award accrued from a prior motion, since that award, if unpaid, could have been enforced through the same procedures used to enforce money judgments.Plaintiff in turn seeks $2,486.76 in sanctions incurred in opposing this motion. (Rand-Lewis Decl. ¶ 31.) These sanctions likewise cannot be awarded. The monetary sanctions that this court ordered to be paid within 30 days on May 15, 2024, were in fact not timely paid, and was only paid by Plaintiff’s counsel on November 15, 2024, after the present motion was filed. (Rand-Lewis Decl. ¶ 14, Exh. A.) And although Plaintiff’s counsel declares that the delay was caused by Plaintiff’s unemployment, she offers no foundation for this testimony in personal knowledge. (Rand-Lewis Decl. ¶ 15.)The motion is DENIED. No sanctions are awarded.