 Case Number:  23STCV14579    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  14 Case Background
 
The individual Defendant, Jonas Muthoni
(“Muthoni”), is the former Chief Technology Officer (“CTO”) for Plaintiff Care
as One, Inc. (“Care”). The corporate Defendant, Deviate Agency, LLC (“Deviate”)
is a separate business owned by Defendant Muthoni. Plaintiff Vijai Bhatti (“Bhatti”)
is the CEO of Plaintiff Care. Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Muthoni failed
to do his job properly, and subcontracted some of his work to Defendant
Deviate, which also failed to perform. Plaintiffs allege that this cost them several
clients and a lot of money, as well as causing Plaintiff Bhatti emotional
distress.
 
On November 14, 2023, Plaintiffs filed
their First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (2) Intentional
Misrepresentation, (3) Negligent Misrepresentation, (4) Tortious Interference
with Prospective Economic Advantage, (5) Conversion, (6) Receiving Stolen Property,
and (7) Unfair Competition against Defendants Muthoni, Deviate, and DOES 1-20. 
 
            No trial
date has yet been set.
 
(1)       Demurrer
 
            Defendants now
demur to the second, third, and fourth causes of action in the FAC on the
grounds that the facts alleged are insufficient to support those claims and are
uncertain.
 
Decision
 
            The
demurrer to the second, third, and fourth causes of action is SUSTAINED, with
10 days leave to amend.
 
Second Cause of Action: Intentional Misrepresentation
 
            The
elements of a cause of action for fraud are: (1) a false representation, actual
or implied, or concealment of a matter of fact material to the transaction
which defendant had a duty to disclose or defendant’s promise made without the
intention to perform; (2) defendant’s knowledge of the falsity; (3) defendant’s
intent to deceive; (4) plaintiff’s justifiable reliance thereon; and (5)
resulting damage to plaintiff. Mosier v. Southern Calif. Physicians Ins.
Exchange (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1022, 1045. 
 
Fraud must be specifically pled,
and the particularity requirement necessitates the pleading of facts that “show
how, when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were
tendered.” Stansfield v. Starkey (1990) 220 Cal.App.3d 59, 73. The
purpose of the rules of fraud pleading is to inform the defendant and the court
of the specific grounds of the charge and enable them to evaluate it. See Chapman
v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 231.
 
Defendant Muthoni
 
            In the
original complaint, the alleged misrepresentation was Defendant Muthoni’s
assertion “that he had the skills, qualifications, and experience to serve as
CTO.” (Complaint ¶ 36). The court held that insufficient to satisfy the
rules of fraud pleading. 
 
Plaintiffs have now added that when
Defendant Muthoni was interviewing for the position of CTO, he claimed (1) “that
he could implement technical upgrades to Care as One’s software product,” (2) “that
he could manage a team of software developers to meet the Care as One’s
software product maintenance needs,” and (3) “that he had the skills,
qualifications, and experience to serve as CTO.” (FAC ¶ 35).
 
Not every statement can result in a
fraud claim. For example, statements about a product’s performance may be
discounted as “puffery” (see Consumer Advocates v. Echostar Satellite Corp.
(2003) 113 Cal.App.4th 1351, 1361 & fn.3), and opinions, even
opinions about future performance, cannot be relied upon because they are not
facts yet (see San Francisco Design Center Associates v. Portman Companies
(1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 29, 43-44). A general statement made by a
candidate in a job interview about their ability to do the job falls within
this same category. And that is all Plaintiffs have alleged against Defendant
Muthoni.
 
While an employee may certainly
commit fraud by representing he has specific qualifications or experience
that he does not in fact possess, the mere statement by the employee that he
has the ability to do the job is (and must be) merely an opinion. What’s more,
it is an opinion every prospective employee is called to their interview to give.
If Plaintiffs’ theory were allowed to proceed, every employer who fires an
employee for performance issues could then also sue that employee for fraud. It
is also worth noting (though neither party has argued the point) that there is
a conditional privilege for statements made by those involved in evaluating a
prospective employee. See Civil Code § 47(c).
 
Defendant Deviate
 
            In the
original complaint, the alleged misrepresentation was Defendant Deviate’s
assertion that it “could meet Care as One’s needs” in a manner that would “fulfill
Care as One’s promises.” (Complaint ¶¶ 37-38). As with Defendant Muthoni,
the court held that insufficient to satisfy the rules of fraud pleading. 
 
            The FAC
simply restates those allegations. (FAC ¶¶ 40-41). It appears that
Plaintiffs may be attempting to plead some sort of promissory fraud theory. But
in order to plead promissory fraud, Plaintiffs must both plead the promise with
more specificity and plead that Defendant Deviate had no intention to perform
when the promise was made. See Beckwith v. Dahl (2012) 205 Cal.App.4th
1039, 1060. That has not been done.
 
Third Cause of Action: Negligent Misrepresentation
 
            The
pleadings, law, and analysis on this claim are the same as on the claim above,
and the result should be the same, with one additional note. If Plaintiffs are
attempting to make a promissory fraud claim, they may not use the same facts to
alternatively plead a negligent misrepresentation claim. See Stockton
Mortgage, Inc. v. Tope (2014) 233 Cal.App.4th 437, 458.
 
Fourth Cause of Action: Tortious Interference
 
            The court
previously sustained the demurrer to this cause of action on uncertainty
grounds – pointing out that there is no single cause of action for “Tortious Interference
with Prospective Economic Advantage.” The court instructed Plaintiffs to plead
either (a) Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage, (b)
Negligent Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage, or (c) both, as
separate claims. The court also pointed out an issue with asserting either
claim against Defendant Muthoni, and an ambiguity with the pleading of
Defendant Deviate’s contractual relationships.
 
            Plaintiffs
have responded to the court’s comments by dropping Defendant Muthoni from this
claim and pleading the contractual relationships more precisely. But they still
have failed to correct the uncertainty created by their failure to properly
identify the cause of action. The Opposition suggests that Plaintiffs mean to
plead a single claim for Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage, and that the “wrongful act” element is met by the preceding cause of
action for fraud. But neither of these assertions appear in FAC itself.
 
Conclusion
 
            Because
Plaintiffs have failed to properly identify an actionable misrepresentation,
and have failed to properly label and fill out their interference claim, they
have failed to state facts sufficient to support their second, third, and
fourth causes of action. Because the defects in the pleading remain potentially
curable, the court grants Plaintiffs 10 days leave to amend.