  Case Number:  23STCV00996    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  14 Flores v. Sassy Production LocationsCase Background
 
Plaintiff alleges that the parties
were engaged in a partnership to repair and sell a certain piece of property.
Plaintiff supplied the cash and labor, Defense supplied the real property. Plaintiff
alleges that Defense failed to convey half title to the property, and refuses to
pay a proper share of the profits, as required by the partnership agreement.
 
In turn, Defense alleges that
Plaintiff has failed to fulfill his labor duties as spelled out in that same
agreement.
 
Complaint
 
            On January
17, 2023, Plaintiff filed his Complaint for (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Anticipatory
Breach, (3) Breach of the Implied Covenant, (4) Misrepresentation, (5)
Negligence, and (6) Declaratory Relief against Defendants Sassy Production
Locations LLC (“Sassy”), Leslie Moore (“Moore”), and DOES 1-20. 
 
            On March
24, 2023, Defendants Sassy and Moore filed their joint Answer.
 
Cross-Complaint
 
            On March
27, 2023, Defendants Sassy and Moore filed their Cross-Complaint for Breach of
Contract against Plaintiff and ROES 1-25.
 
            On July 28,
2023, Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant filed his Answer.
 
Trial Date
 
            Bench trial
is currently set for April 29, 2024.
 
(1)-(3) Motions to
Compel
 
            Defendants/Cross-Complainants
now move this court for orders compelling Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant to serve
responses to Form and Special Interrogatories, as well as Requests for
Production. Defendants/Cross-Complainants also seek monetary sanctions.
 
Decision
 
            The motions
are TAKEN OFF-CALENDAR as MOOT. The sanctions requests are DENIED. 
 
Discussion
 
            The facts
underlying this motion are not in dispute. Defendants served discovery on
September 5, 2023. Responses were due on October 9, 2023. Counsel agreed to
extend the deadline to October 23, 2023. None were served on that date.
 
            The next
day, October 24, 2023, Defense counsel gave Plaintiff’s counsel an unsolicited
additional extension of one week, to October 31, 2023. Plaintiff responded with
a complaint about the length of the discovery request and asked for November 7,
2023. Defense agreed. 
 
But on November 6, 2023, Plaintiff’s
counsel emailed to ask for another extension, to November 17, 2023. There was
no response. On November 13, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel emailed again, this time
promising responses “as soon as possible.” On November 14, 2023, Defense
counsel responded, demanding responses by the next day. 
 
Further email exchanges consisted
of complaints from Defense counsel and shifting goalposts from Plaintiff. These
motions were ultimately filed and served on November 30, 2023. As it happened, Plaintiff
served his responses the same day.
 
Since responses have been served,
the motions are clearly MOOT. The only reason they remain on the court’s
calendar is to decide the issue of sanctions. Code of Civil Procedure
§§ 2030.290 and 2031.300 require the court to award monetary sanctions “unless
it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”
 
The court views this situation
fundamentally as a failure to communicate on both sides. Plaintiff’s counsel failed
to meet their initial, self-imposed deadline; they also failed to contact
Defense to address the situation ahead of that deadline. Then, Plaintiff failed
to offer Defense any kind of explanation as to why their deadlines kept
shifting backwards.
 
On the Defense side, counsel never
sought any explanation. They did not respond at all to one of Plaintiff’s
emails, then their next response was outrage and an unrealistic demand for
responses by the next day. Their next and final email carried the same tone.
 
The terse, uninformative nature of
the conversation between counsel appears to be a function of the fact that it
occurred entirely over email. Reference to this department’s Courtroom
Information page would have shown counsel the court’s preference for verbal,
real-time communication, which serves to avoid situations just such as this. In
future, this court expects counsel to physically speak with one another. Emails
can memorialize a conversation, but they are not an adequate substitute for
one.
 
Conclusion
 
            Since
responses have been served, the motions are TAKEN OFF-CALENDAR as MOOT. For the
reasons given above, the court finds that circumstances make the imposition of
sanctions unjust.
 
(4)       Requests
for Admissions
 
Defendants/Cross-Complainants now
move this court for an order deeming the Requests for Admissions, Set No. One,
served on Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant as admitted by him.
Defendants/Cross-Complainants also seek sanctions of $3,120.00.
 
Decision
 
            The motion is
TAKEN OFF-CALENDAR as MOOT. Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant is ORDERED to pay $1,560.00
in sanctions. The amount is to be delivered to counsel for Defendants/Cross-Complainants
within 30 days.
 
Discussion
 
            The history of this discovery is the
same as the three motions discussed above. However, as counsel know, Requests
for Admissions are different from other discovery requests. While the purpose
of other discovery devices is to provide information and make evidence
available for trial, Requests for Admissions directly frame the issues to be
tried. For this reason, the legislature has treated them with much more
urgency, affording extra remedies like the one sought here (or an award of
attorney’s fees under Code of Civil Procedure § 2033.420 for having to
prove a matter that the opposing party refused to admit) to the requesting
parties.
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure § 2033.280(c) contains no exception permitting the court
to decline a sanction request. Instead, it directly instructs the court to
impose monetary sanctions even if responses have subsequently been served.
 

            The
rate sought by counsel, $300 per hour, is eminently reasonable. The amount of
time reasonably spent on this motion is three hours to draft the moving papers,
one hour to draft the reply, and one hour to appear at the hearing. Five hours
at $300 per hour, plus the $60 filing fee for this motion, results in a
sanction of $1,560.00.