 Case Number:  23STCV25147    Hearing Date:   February 21, 2024    Dept:  14 Case Background
 
Plaintiff alleges that she is being
harassed by unidentified persons who are posting her information on public
websites, variously and falsely indicating that there is a garage sale at her
home, or that she is selling adult toys, and so on.
 
On October 16, 2023, Plaintiff filed
her Complaint for (1) Defamation, (2) False Light, (3) Negligence, (4) Civil
Harassment, (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress (“IIED”), (6)
Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress (“NIED”), and (7) Declaratory Relief
against Defendants DOES 1-20. 
 
No trial date has yet been set.
 
Instant Motion
 
Plaintiff now moves this court for
an order permitting her to serve document discovery on third parties to seek
the identities of the individuals who have committed the alleged wrongful acts.
 
Decision
 
            The motion
is GRANTED, in part. Plaintiff may serve discovery on third parties, but
the contours of that discovery are beyond the scope of the present motion.
 
Discussion
 
            Generally
speaking, discovery only commences after a defendant has been served. See Code
of Civil Procedure § 2025.210. However, the court may permit discovery to
proceed before that, if there is good cause. See Code of Civil Procedure
§ 2031.020. Here, there is good cause – Plaintiff cannot serve the Defendants
unless she can identify them, and she cannot identify them without discovery.
 
            The third
parties who have filed opposition do not object to early discovery, so much as
they object to the form of the requests directed to them, and to the form of
the order proposed by Plaintiff. These objections have some merit, in that
Plaintiff’s proposed order has combined two separate issues: permission to
serve early discovery, and the exact shape that discovery should take.
 
            The court
will not sign Plaintiff’s proposed order, because paragraph 1 invites the court
to pre-judge the case, and paragraph 4 goes beyond the proper scope of the
motion. The contours of discovery, and what each involved entity will do, is a
matter to be negotiated between counsel in the first instance. If counsel
cannot agree, then the court remains available to address any specific disputes
as they arise.
 
Conclusion
 
            Plaintiff
is attempting to take the steps two at a time here. The motion is GRANTED, in
part. Plaintiff may serve discovery on third parties, but the contours of that
discovery are a separate question.