Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 24STCV13779
Plaintiff's Name: Darryl Franklin and Joshua Franklin
Defendant's Name: Gilsleider, McMahon, Molinelli & Phan, Jennifer E. Miller, Progressive Casualty Insurance Company, Progressive West Insurance Company, Progressive Select Insurance Company, United Financial Casualty, Parker, PLLC, and Michael R. Parker
People-Names: 
Company-Names: Gilsleider, McMahon, Molinelli & Phan, Parker, PLLC, Progressive Casualty Insurance Company, Progressive West Insurance Company, Progressive Select Insurance Company, United Financial Casualty
Places: 
Dates: 
Events: 
Money: 
Intentions: 
Facts: 
Disputes: 
Acts: 
Agreements: 
Laws: 
Case Citations: 
Statutes: 
Roles: 
Significant Statements: 

Case Summary:
The case involves a dispute between Plaintiffs Darryl Franklin and Joshua Franklin, and Defendants Gilsleider, McMahon, Molinelli & Phan, Jennifer E. Miller, Progressive Casualty Insurance Company, Progressive West Insurance Company, Progressive Select Insurance Company, United Financial Casualty, Parker, PLLC, and Michael R. Parker. The Plaintiffs are suing the Defendants for alleged fraud, breach of fiduciary duties, bad faith, and legal malpractice in connection with an underlying lawsuit involving a motor vehicle accident. The Court has sustained the demurrers to several of the causes of action, and has given the Plaintiffs leave to amend their complaint.

Key Points:

* The Court sustained the demurrers to the second, third, sixth, and seventh causes of action by the Progressive Defendants and to the fourth cause of action by the Gilsleider firm Defendants and the Parker Defendants without leave to amend.
* The Court sustained the demurrers as to the other causes of actions asserted against the Defendants with leave to amend.
* The Plaintiffs failed to allege facts to support claims for fraud, breach of fiduciary duties, bad faith, and legal malpractice against the Gilsleider firm Defendants and the Parker Defendants.
* The Plaintiffs also failed to allege facts to support an award of punitive damages.
* The Court did not award attorney fees or disgorgement of attorney fees to the Plaintiffs.
```

I hope this helps! Let me know if you have any further questions.