 Case Number:  24STCV13779    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


September 4, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24STCV13779




MOTIONS


Demurrers to Complaint
Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint 




MOVING PARTY


Defendants Gilsleider,
  McMahon, Molinelli & Phan, Jennifer E. Miller, Progressive Casualty
  Insurance Company, Progressive West Insurance Company, Progressive Select
  Insurance Company, United Financial Casualty, Parker, PLLC, and Michael R.
  Parker  




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiffs Darryl Franklin and Joshua Franklin



 
MOTION
Plaintiffs Darryl
Franklin and Joshua Franklin (“Plaintiffs”) sued Defendants Gilsleider,
McMahon, Molinelli & Phan, Jennifer E. Miller, Progressive Casualty
Insurance Company, Progressive West Insurance Company, Progressive Select
Insurance Company, United Financial Casualty, Parker, PLLC, and Michael R.
Parker (collectively, “Defendants”) in connection with an underlying lawsuit that
was filed against Plaintiffs involving a motor vehicle accident.  Defendants Gilsleider, McMahon, Molinelli
& Phan and Jennifer E. Miller (collectively, the “Gilsleider firm
Defendants”) demur to Plaintiffs’ complaint. 
Defendants Progressive Casualty Insurance Company, Progressive West
Insurance Company, Progressive Select Insurance Company, and United Financial
Casualty (collectively, the “Progressive Defendants”) separately demur to Plaintiffs’
complaint.  Defendants Parker, PLLC and
Michael R. Parker (collectively, the “Parker Defendants”) demur to Plaintiffs’
complaint and move to strike portions of the complaint.  
Plaintiffs allege
the Progressive Defendants insured Plaintiffs in connection with the motor
vehicle collision which led to the underlying lawsuit.  The Progressive Defendants appointed the
Gilsleider firm Defendants to represent Plaintiffs in that lawsuit.  The claimant in the underlying lawsuit made a
policy limits demand against Plaintiffs, which Plaintiffs allege the Gilsleider
firm Defendants and the Progressive Defendants improperly rejected.  The Progressive Defendants then appointed the
Parker Defendants to represent Plaintiffs in the underlying lawsuit.  Plaintiffs contend this is because the
Progressive Defendants wanted to use Plaintiffs’ case to investigate an expert (Michael
Hayavi, M.D.) who was involved in a separate case and was also used by the claimant
in the underlying lawsuit against Plaintiffs. 
Plaintiffs eventually hired their own counsel, and the Progressive
Defendants settled the underlying claim for three times more than the policy
limits, which the Progressive Defendants satisfied.  As the motions substantially overlap, the
Court considers them together. 
Plaintiffs filed one omnibus opposition to the three sets of demurrers
and the motion to strike.    
ANALYSIS
“It is black
letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a
complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385,
388.)  In ruling on a demurrer, the court must “liberally construe[]” the
allegations of the complaint.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)  “This rule of liberal construction means that
the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not the
defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)
Any party, within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to
strike the whole pleading or any part thereof. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322,
subd. (b).)  On a motion to strike, the
court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436,
subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz
(1954) 42 Cal.2d ¶767, 782.)
Plaintiffs’ first cause of action is for
fraud against all Defendants.  A party
must allege fraud with particularity.  “This
means: (1) general pleading of the legal conclusion of fraud is insufficient;
and (2) every element of the cause of action for fraud must be alleged in full,
factually and specifically, and the policy of liberal construction of pleading
will not usually be invoked to sustain a pleading that is defective in any
material respect.”  (Wilhelm v. Pray,
Price, Williams & Russell (1986) 186 Cal.App.3d 1324, 1331.)  To state a case of action for fraudulent concealment,
Plaintiffs must allege Defendants concealed or suppressed a material fact that
Defendants were under a duty to disclose to Plaintiffs with the intent to
defraud Plaintiffs; Plaintiffs were unaware of the fact and would not have
acted in the same way if Plaintiffs knew of the concealed fact; and the
concealment caused Plaintiffs to sustain damages.  (Blickman Turkus, LP v. MF Downtown
Sunnyvale, LLC (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 858, 868.)  
Plaintiffs allege the Gilsleider firm
Defendants and the Parker Defendants were Plaintiffs’ legal counsel and, as
such, they owed fiduciary duties to Plaintiffs (Complaint, ¶ 58); the
Progressive Defendants owed Plaintiffs duties of good faith and fair dealing as
Plaintiffs’ insurer (id., ¶ 61); the Gilsleider firm Defendants “intentionally
breached their duty of disclosure by, inter alia: [¶] Failing to include
[Plaintiff] in communications with [the Progressive Defendants] regarding the .
. . Lawsuit generally; [¶] Failing to keep [Plaintiffs] apprised of settlement
proposals, and actively hiding those proposals; [¶] Failing to timely send [Plaintiffs]
the Second Policy Limits Demand; and [¶] Failing to respond at all to [Plaintiffs’]
request for advice regarding the Second Policy Limits Demand” (id., ¶ 63);
the Parker Defendants “intentionally breached their duty of disclosure by, inter
alia: [¶] Failing to include [Plaintiffs] in communications with [the Progressive
Defendants] regarding the . . . Lawsuit generally; [¶] Refusing to allow [Plaintiffs]
to join the February 2, 2023 ‘case review’ call;  [¶] Failing to keep [Plaintiffs] apprised of
settlement proposals, and actively hiding those proposals; [¶] Failing to
advise [Plaintiffs] regarding the flagrant conflict of interest inherent in
representing [Plaintiffs] and [the Progressive Defendants] in the ISI
Investigation and the Hayavi Major Case, or obtain [Plaintiffs’] informed
written consent to that concurrent representation; and [¶] Failing to disclose
the intent to use the . . . Lawsuit to further [the Progressive Defendants’]
objectives in the ISI Investigation and the Hayavi Major Case” (id., ¶ 64);
the Progressive Defendants “intentionally breached [their] duty of disclosure
by, inter alia: [¶] Forbidding its counsel from including [Plaintiffs],
joint clients, in communications regarding the . . . Lawsuit, . . . ; [¶]
Failing to keep [Plaintiffs] apprised of settlement proposals, and actively
hiding those proposals; [¶] Failing to timely send [Plaintiffs] the Second
Policy Limits Demand; [¶] Failing to advise the [Plaintiffs] regarding the
flagrant conflict of interest inherent in representing [Plaintiffs] and [the Progressive
Defendants] in the . . .  Lawsuit while
representing [the Progressive Defendants] in the ISI Investigation and the
Hayavi Major Case; and  [¶] Failing [sic]
disclose the intent to use the . . .  Lawsuit to further [the Progressive
Defendants’] objectives in the ISI Investigation and the Hayavi Major Case” (id.,
¶ 65.  
Plaintiffs further allege “[i]n failing to
disclose the foregoing information, Defendants intended to deceive [Plaintiffs],
and [Plaintiffs] were in fact deceived: while waiting for advice (which never
came), [Plaintiffs] did not seek independent legal counsel regarding the Second
Policy Limits Demand and did not object to the assignment of the . . . Lawsuit
to [the Parker Defendants].  Any
reasonable attorney would have explained the predictable ramifications of
declining to accept the Second Policy Limits Demand and would have advised [Plaintiffs]
to direct their counsel and carrier to accept the Second Policy Limits Demand.  Had [Plaintiffs] not been deceived, they
would have timely sought independent counsel, and with that counsel, directed [the
Progressive Defendants] to accept the Second Policy Limits Demand.  [The Progressive Defendants], if only out of
self-interest (i.e., avoidance of bad faith liability), would then have
accepted the Second Policy Limits Demand, and the . . . Lawsuit would have
ended in May 2022.” (Complaint, ¶ 67).  
First Cause of Action: Fraud
In their demurrer, the Gilsleider firm Defendants
argue Plaintiffs cannot prevail on the cause of action for fraud because
Plaintiffs do not allege damages. They also contend they “cannot be the
proximate cause of Plaintiffs’ alleged injuries, because: (1) [the Gilsleider
firm] Defendants were not counsel of record at the time the matter settled; (2)
Plaintiffs suffered no injuries, because [the Progressive Defendants] paid the
full amount in settlement and legal defense cost, eliminating any adverse
verdict; and (3) under well-settled California law [the Progressive Defendants],
not [the Gilsleider firm] Defendants or Plaintiff[s], controlled the underlying
litigation and had the right to determine when the underlying matter settled.”  (Memorandum of Points and Authorities in
Support of Defendants’ Demurrer, p. 8.)  As the Gilsleider firm Defendants point out, they
are not liable for decisions made by subsequent counsel.  (Filbin v. Fitzgerald (2012) 211
Cal.App.4th 154, 171-172.)  Further,
because the Progressive Defendants defended Plaintiffs in the underlying
action, the Progressive Defendants determined whether to settle that
action.  (Pitzer College v. Indian
Harbor Ins. Co. 8 Cal.5th 93, 108; Safeco Insurance Company v. Superior
Court (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 782,789.) 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs fail to allege facts to show any fraud by the Gilsleider
firm Defendants caused Plaintiffs’ damages and, therefore, fail to state a
cause of action for fraud against them.  
For the same reason, Plaintiffs’ cause of
action for fraud against the Parker Defendants fails.  As the Progressive Defendants defended
Plaintiffs in the underlying action, the Progressive Defendants controlled the
litigation.  As such, Plaintiffs fail to
allege facts to show any fraud by the Parker Defendants caused Plaintiffs’
damages.
Plaintiffs also fail to allege the
Progressive Defendants’ alleged fraud caused Plaintiffs’ damages.  Because the Progressive Defendants decided
when to settle the underlying claim, the Progressive Defendants’ alleged
failure to inform Plaintiffs of information regarding the underlying claim
could not have caused Plaintiffs’ damages.  
Second and Third Causes of Action: Breach of Fiduciary Duties
To state a cause of action for breach of
fiduciary duties, Plaintiffs must allege Defendants owed Plaintiffs fiduciary
duties; Defendants breached those duties; and Plaintiffs sustained damages from
that breach.  (Charnay v. Cobert
(2006) 145 Cal.App.4th 170, 182.)
As set forth above, Plaintiffs fail to allege
any damages resulted from breach of fiduciary duties by the Gilsleider firm
Defendants or the Parker Defendants. 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs fail to state claims for breach of fiduciary
duties against those Defendants.
Plaintiffs cannot state a claim for breach of
fiduciary duties against the Progressive Defendants because insurers are not
fiduciaries.  (Vu v. Prudential
Property & Casualty Ins. Co. (2001) 26 Cal.4th 1142, 1150-1151.)  The Court sustains the demurrer to the third
and fourth causes of action for breach of fiduciary duties against the
Progressive Defendants without leave to amend.
Fourth and Fifth Causes of Action: Bad Faith
To state a cause of action for bad faith,
Plaintiffs must allege an insurer was obligated to Plaintiffs; the insurer unreasonably
breached a duty under the insurance policy; and that breach caused economic
damages to Plaintiffs.  (Love v. Fire
Ins. Exchange (1990) 221 Cal.App.3d 1136, 1151; Waters v. United
Services Auto. Ass'n (1996) 41 Cal.App.4th 1063, 1079.) 
Plaintiffs fail to allege facts to state a
claim for bad faith against the Progressive Defendants.  “[T]he insurer must settle within policy
limits when there is substantial likelihood of recovery in excess of those
limits.  The duty to settle is implied in
law to protect the insured from exposure to liability in excess of coverage as
a result of the insurer's gamble—on which only the insured might lose.”  (Murphy v. Allstate Ins. Co. (1976) 17
Cal.3d 937, 941, internal citations omitted.) 
“An unreasonable refusal to settle may subject the insurer to liability
for the entire amount of the judgment rendered against the insured, including
any portion in excess of the policy limits.” 
(Hamilton v. Maryland Cas. Co. (2002) 27 Cal.4th 718, 725.)  Plaintiffs do not allege there is a judgment
rendered against them beyond the policy limits of their policy with the
Progressive Defendants.  As such,
Plaintiffs do not allege a claim for bad faith against the Progressive Defendants.  
As Plaintiffs do not allege that there is a
judgment against them beyond the policy limits of their policy with the
Progressive Defendants, Plaintiffs must allege the Progressive Defendants “caused
harm different from exposure to excess liability . . . .”  (J.B. Aguerre, Inc. v. American Guarantee
& Liability Ins. Co. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 6, 13.)  Plaintiffs fail to allege any such harm.  While Plaintiffs contend Plaintiffs hired
outside counsel, the Progressive Defendants are not liable for that cost unless
their “tortious conduct reasonably compel[led] the insured to retain an
attorney to obtain the benefits due under a policy . . . .”  (Emerald Bay Community Assn. v. Golden
Eagle Ins. Corp. (2005) 130 Cal.App.4th 1078, 1096.)  As Plaintiffs concede, the Progressive
Defendants provided Plaintiffs with a defense to the underlying action and
settled the action on Plaintiffs’ behalf. 
Plaintiffs fail to allege facts to show Plaintiffs had to hire counsel
to obtain the benefits of their policy from the Progressive Defendants.  Likewise, Plaintiffs’ claim the delay in
settlement distressed Plaintiffs cannot be their only basis for damages.  (Continental Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (1995)
37 Cal.App.4th 69, 85.)
Plaintiffs’ fourth and fifth causes of action
against the Gilsleider firm Defendants and the Parker Defendants fail as a
matter of law.  Attorneys are not liable
for insurance bad faith.  (Gruenberg
v. Aetna Ins. Co. (1973) 9 Cal.3d 566, 576.)  The Court sustains the demurrer to the fourth
and fifth causes of action against the Gilsleider firm Defendants and the
Parker Defendants without leave to amend.
Sixth and Seventh Causes of Action: Legal Malpractice
As set forth above, Plaintiffs fail to allege
any damages from breach of fiduciary duties by the Gilsleider firm Defendants
or the Parker Defendants.  Accordingly,
Plaintiffs fail to state claims for legal malpractice against them.
Plaintiffs do not allege the Progressive
Defendants are attorneys or law firms. 
As such, the Progressive Defendants are not liable for legal
malpractice.  (Merril v. Rsrv. Ins.
Co. (1973) 34 Cal.App.3d 858, 880.)  The
Court sustains the demurrer to the sixth and seventh causes of action without
leave to amend.
Motion to Strike
As the Court sustains the Parker Defendants’
demurrer, the motion to strike is moot.  However,
the Court notes Plaintiffs fail to allege facts to support an award of punitive
damages.  To state a prima facie claim
for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the elements set forth in the
punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721 (College Hospital).)  Pursuant to Civil Code section 3294, a
plaintiff must allege the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd.
(a).)  “Malice is defined in the statute
as conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or
despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.”  (College
Hospital, supra, 8 Cal.4th at p.
725.)  “The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim.”  (Grieves v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 159, 166, internal citations and footnotes omitted.)  
Plaintiff does not allege any specific facts
that constitute malicious conduct, which could support an award of punitive
damages.  (See,
e.g., Complaint, ¶ 158.)  Accordingly, Plaintiffs fail to allege facts
to support an award of punitive damages. 

Plaintiffs also fail to allege facts to
support an award of attorney fees pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section
1021.5, which provides, “Upon motion, a court may award attorneys' fees to a
successful party against one or more opposing parties in any action which has
resulted in the enforcement of an important right affecting the public interest
if: (a) a significant benefit, whether pecuniary or nonpecuniary, has been
conferred on the general public or a large class of persons, (b) the necessity
and financial burden of private enforcement, or of enforcement by one public
entity against another public entity, are such as to make the award
appropriate, and (c) such fees should not in the interest of justice be paid
out of the recovery, if any.”  In the instant case, Plaintiffs do not seek
enforcement of a right that will benefit the public.  Rather, Plaintiffs seek enforcement of their own
rights.  Thus, Plaintiffs do not allege
facts to show they are entitled to attorney fees under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1021.5.   
Plaintiffs also fail to allege they are
entitled to disgorgement of attorney fees. 
The attorney fees the Parker Defendants received for work with which Plaintiffs
are dissatisfied are not damages.  (Orrick
Herrington & Sutcliffe v. Superior Court (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 1052,
1058.)
The Parker Defendants also correctly point
out Plaintiffs cannot recover emotional distress damages absent other economic
damages.  (Continental Ins. Co. v.
Superior Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 69, 85.)
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
The Court sustains
the demurrers to the second, third,
sixth, and seventh causes of action by the Progressive Defendants and to the
fourth cause of action by the Gilsleider firm Defendants and the Parker
Defendants without leave to amend.  The
Court otherwise sustains the demurrers as to the other causes of actions
asserted against the Defendants with leave to amend.
Sustaining the
demurrers render the motion to strike moot. 
Plaintiffs are to
file an amended complaint within 10 days of notice of this order.  
Defendants are ordered
to provide notice of this order and to file proof of service of same. 