  Case Number:  21STCV13094    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


September 4, 2024




CASE NUMBER:
  


21STCV13094




MOTION:  


Motion for Final Approval of Class Action Settlement




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff Ramiro Mata Moya




OPPOSING PARTY


None



 
MOTION
            Plaintiff
Ramiro Mata Moya (“Plaintiff”) and Defendant Chipmasters Manufacturing, Inc.
(“Defendant”) jointly seek final approval of the class action settlement in
this matter.  
ANALYSIS
Before the Court
finally approves a class action settlement, the court must ascertain the
fairness of the proposed settlement using procedures such as in-chamber
conferences, examination of documents or witnesses, and consideration of
objections by class members or any other appropriate evidence.  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.769, subd.
(g).)  
Plaintiff submits
the Declaration of Tracy Dantema (“Dantema”), who works as a case manager for ILYM
Group (“ILYM”), the settlement administrator for this case.  Dantema states Defendant provided ILYM with
information for 29 members of the class. 
ILYM mailed a  notice the Court
approved to those 29 class members.  The
post office returned 3 notices to ILYM. 
Of those, ILYM found forwarding information for one class member.  For two class members, ILYM could not find
updated information.  (See Declaration of
Tracy Dantema, ¶¶ 4-10.)  ILYM has not
received any requests for exclusion, objections to, or disputes concerning the
settlement.  (Dantema Decl. , ¶¶ 11-13.)  
The average
payment from the class action settlement for a class member is $3,315.71, and
the highest payment for a class member is $7,135.41.  (Dantema Decl., ¶ 16.)  The average payment for a class member under
the Labor Code Private Attorneys’ General Act of 2004, or PAGA, is $43.10;
while the highest payment is $101.39.  (Ibid.)  This evidence suggests the members of the
class consider the settlement to be in their best interests.  The Court also finds Plaintiff’s counsel has presented
evidence of his efforts in litigating this matter, which substantiate the fees
Plaintiff’s counsel seeks.  (See Declaration
of Alfredo Nava.)  Accordingly, the Court
concludes the preliminarily approved settlement is fair and reasonable and
grants final approval of the settlement.
Plaintiff is
ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling and to file proof of service of
same.