  Case Number:  23AHCV02319    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:      May 22, 2024                                      TRIAL DATE: None set
                                                           
CASE:                         RUBEN YEPEZ v.
GENERAL MOTORS LLC, and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive. 
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV02319
 
 
 
MOTION
TO COMPEL DEPOSITION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Ruben Yepez
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendant
General Motors LLC
 
SERVICE:                              Filed February 7, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed May 9, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed May 15, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            Plaintiff moves for an order compelling Defendant to produce its person
most qualified for deposition and to produce documents.
 
BACKGROUND
 
            This case arises out of Plaintiffs
lemon law claim for a 2021
GMC Sierra, VIN 3GTP8CET8MG431358 (“Subject
Vehicle”). Plaintiff filed this complaint on October 6, 2023. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of Defendant’s
person most qualified is GRANTED, in part.
 
            Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions is DENIED.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.450, subdivision (a), provides: “If, after service
of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an officer, director, managing
agent, or employee of a party, or a person designated by an organization that
is a party under Section 2025.230, without having served a valid objection
under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it,
or to produce for inspection any document, electronically stored information,
or tangible thing described in the deposition notice, the party giving the
notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance and
testimony, and the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.”
 
            Code of
Civil Procedure section 2025.450 subdivision (b) requires that any motion under
subdivision (a) set forth specific facts showing good cause and a meet and
confer declaration or, when a deponent fails to attend the deposition, a
declaration stating the moving party contacted the deponent to inquire about
the nonappearance. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Plaintiff
moves for an order compelling the deposition testimony of Defendant’s person
most qualified. Plaintiff provides that on November 13, 2023, he served
Defendant with a notice of deposition for its person most qualified. (Hunt
Decl. ¶6.) After service of objections and an attempt
by Plaintiff to meet and confer that was never responded to, Plaintiff served
an amended notice of deposition on December 6, 2023. (Id. at ¶¶7-9.)
Again, after service of objections and attempts by Plaintiff to meet and confer
that were unanswered, Plaintiff served another amended notice of deposition on
December 21, 2023. (Id. at ¶¶10-14.) The deposition was noticed for January
19, 2024. (Id. ¶14, Exh. I.) GM failed to appear and failed to serve
objections. (Ibid.) Plaintiff inquired about the missed deposition and
has received no response. (Id. at ¶15, Exh. J.)
 
Plaintiff has demonstrated that he
served Defendant with a notice of deposition and Defendant failed to appear or
provide an explanation for the non-appearance. Plaintiff’s motion to compel
deposition is GRANTED. However, the Court declines to rule whether the deponent
must answer questions related to specific categories. 
 
If a
deponent fails to answer any question or to produce any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing
under the deponent's control that is specified in the deposition notice or a
deposition subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an
order compelling that answer or production.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480, subd.
(a).) “If the court determines that the answer or production sought
is subject to discovery, it shall order that the answer be given or the
production be made on the resumption of the deposition.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.480, subd. (i).)
 
            Because no
deposition has occurred yet, an order on the specific categories are premature.

 
Plaintiff also requests the Court to
compel production of the documents requested in the notice. The requests
consist of the following:
1. WRITINGS which refer to, evidence
or reflect service or repairs performed on the SUBJECT VEHICLE at any time,
including, but not limited to, the warranty repair history, service request
documents, work orders, repair orders, labor receipts, parts order forms,
computer printouts, parts receipts and billing statements. 
2. Any and all correspondence with
any person, entity or organization other than YOUR attorney relating or
referring in any way to Plaintiff or the SUBJECT VEHICLE. 
3. Your California lemon law policy
and procedure manual(s) used by your dealers or authorized customer service
representatives. 
4. YOUR Customer Relations file
regarding Plaintiff or the SUBJECT VEHICLE. 
5. WRITINGS provided to YOUR
Customer Relations representatives, which refer, reflect or relate to rules,
policies or procedures concerning the issuance of vehicle purchase refunds or
replacements pursuant to the California Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act. 
6. YOUR Technical Service Bulletin
Index, and any TSB’s that relate to the WARRANTY NONCONFORMITY(S) alleged in
this case. 
7. Any recalls that apply to the
SUBJECT VEHICLE. 
8. WRITINGS that YOU reviewed in
determining not to repurchase or replace the SUBJECT VEHICLE prior to the date
Plaintiff’s lawsuit was filed. 
9. YOUR lemon law policy and
procedure manual. 
10. A copy of any photographs or
videos of the SUBJECT VEHICLE. 
 
As Defendant did not object to the
last notice of deposition that included the request for production of
documents, and Plaintiff has shown good cause for production, Defendant is to
comply with the requests. To the extent that Defendant is relying on its prior
objections and asserts the documents sought are confidential, Defendant may
move for a protective order or submit a privilege log. 
 
Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections
are overruled as immaterial. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiff’s motion to compel the deposition of
Defendant’s person most qualified is GRANTED, in part. 
 
Defendant is to produce its person most qualified on a mutually
agreeable date within 30 days of this order and produce responsive documents. 
 
            Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is DENIED as the motion
is only granted in part.
 
            Moving
Party to provide notice.
 
 
 
 
 
            
Dated:   March 28, 2024                                             ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org

 