 Case Number:  24NNCV00742    Hearing Date:   November 4, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL FOR PLAINTIFF CAROLINA CRUZ-SALAZAR.On April 3, 2024, Plaintiff Carolina Cruz-Salazar (“Plaintiff”)
filed the present action against Defendant Sierra’s Beauty Salon (“Defendant”)
and DOES 1 through 20, asserting causes of action for (1) negligence and (2)
strict product liability. Plaintiff alleges that on or about April 27, 2023,
she visited Sierra’s Beauty Salon for hair treatment and suffered severe burns
to her scalp as a result of the salon's negligence in administering,
inspecting, and maintaining the hair dryer chair used during the
treatment. 
On August 5, 2024, Defendant filed an answer.
On October 2, 2024, Plaintiff’s counsel filed a
motion to be relieved as counsel.
I.               
Legal
Standard
The Court may issue an order allowing an attorney to
withdraw from representation after notice to the client. (CCP § 284.) The
attorney may withdraw from representation if the withdrawal would not result in
undue prejudice to the client's interest—i.e., counsel cannot withdraw at a
critical point in the litigation. (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal.
App. 4th 904, 915; see California Rule of Professional Conduct 3-700.)
The Court has discretion to grant or deny a motion
to be relieved as counsel, particularly when granting such a motion would cause
undue prejudice to the client's interests or result in “an unreasonable
disruption of the orderly processes of justice.” (People v. Ortiz (1990)
51 Cal. 3d 975, 979.) Furthermore, the Court may deny an attorney’s request to
withdraw “where such withdrawal would work an injustice or cause undue delay in
the proceeding.” (Mandell v. Superior Court (1977) 67 Cal. App. 3d 1,
4.) However, this discretion must be exercised reasonably, balancing the
client’s right to choose representation with the court’s duty to maintain the
orderly administration of justice. (Ibid.)
In making a motion to be relieved as counsel, the
attorney must comply with procedures set forth in Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362. The motion must be made using mandatory forms:
1.
Notice of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel directed to the client –
(MC-051);
2.
Declaration “stating in general terms and without compromising the
confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship” the reasons that the
motion was brought (MC-052);3. Proposed Order (MC-053).The forms must be timely filed and served on all
parties who have appeared in the case. If these documents are served on the
client by mail, there must be a declaration stating either that the address
where client was served is “the current residence or business address of the
client” or “the last known residence or business address of the client and the
attorney has been unable to locate a more current address after making
reasonable efforts to do so within 30 days before the filing of the motion to
be relieved.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d)(1).)
 II.            
Discussion
Attorneys
Aidin Ghavimi and Ilana Fine, on behalf of Starpoint, LC, (collectively
“Counsel”) seek to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Carolina Cruz-Salazar
(“Plaintiff”), citing a lack of communication and a breakdown in the
attorney-client relationship. Counsel indicates that Plaintiff initially agreed
to sign a substitution of counsel, and the necessary forms were sent to
Plaintiff via mail and electronic mail. However, Plaintiff has not responded.
Counsel further asserts that Plaintiff’s refusal or inability to communicate
has made effective representation unreasonably difficult, as Plaintiff has
continually breached a material term of the retainer agreement, specifically,
the obligation to maintain contact with counsel.
The
Court notes that the motion is unopposed. Counsel has complied with all
procedural requirements, including notice to the client and submission of a proposed order and declaration as required by MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053.III.          
Conclusion
and Order
The Court GRANTS Attorneys motion to be relieved as counsel due to the
breakdown in the attorney-client relationship and lack of communication from
Plaintiff.
“After
the order is signed, a copy of the signed order must be served on the client
and on all parties that have appeared in the case.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e).) The Order on this Motion will not be effective “until proof of
service of a copy of the signed order on Plaintiff has been filed with the
court.” (Ibid.)
Counsel
is ordered to give notice. 