  Case Number:  23AHCV02008    Hearing Date:   November 4, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING ATTORNEYS' MOTION TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL FOR PLAINTIFFS LIGHTKING AMERICA
TECHNOLOGY AND YUAN SUN AND PLAINTIFFS' REQUEST FOR CONTINUANCE. The
Court may issue an order allowing an attorney to withdraw from representation
after notice to the client. (CCP § 284.) The attorney may withdraw from
representation if the withdrawal would not result in undue prejudice to the
client's interest—i.e., counsel cannot withdraw at a critical point in the
litigation. (Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21 Cal. App. 4th 904, 915; see
California Rule of Professional Conduct 3-700.)
The
Court has discretion to grant or deny a motion to be relieved as counsel,
particularly when granting such a motion would cause undue prejudice to the
client's interests or result in “an unreasonable disruption of the orderly
processes of justice.” (People v. Ortiz (1990) 51 Cal. 3d 975, 979.)
Furthermore, the Court may deny an attorney’s request to withdraw “where such
withdrawal would work an injustice or cause undue delay in the proceeding.”
(Mandell v. Superior Court (1977) 67 Cal. App. 3d 1, 4.) However, this
discretion must be exercised reasonably, balancing the client’s right to choose
representation with the court’s duty to maintain the orderly administration of
justice. (Ibid.)
In making a motion
to be relieved as counsel, the attorney must comply with procedures set forth
in Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362.  The
motion must be made using mandatory forms:1.    
Notice
of Motion and Motion to be Relieved as Counsel directed to the client –
(MC-051);2.    
Declaration
“stating in general terms and without compromising the confidentiality of the
attorney-client relationship” the reasons that the motion was brought (MC-052);3.    
Proposed
Order (MC-053).
The forms must be timely filed and
served on all parties who have appeared in the case.  If these documents are served on the client
by mail, there must be a declaration stating either that the address where
client was served is “the current residence or business address of the client”
or “the last known residence or business address of the client and the attorney
has been unable to locate a more current address after making reasonable
efforts to do so within 30 days before the filing of the motion to be
relieved.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(d)(1).)
 This
matter involves two separately filed motions to be relieved as counsel. One
motion was filed by Supreme Law Group, APC, Ian Li, and Avery Tam (“Attorneys”)
to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Yuan Sun. The second motion was filed
by the same Attorneys to be relieved as counsel for Plaintiff Lightking America
Technology (L.A.) LTD. Both motions, filed by the Attorneys representing
Plaintiffs Yuan Sun and Lightking America Technology, (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) seek to withdraw as counsel in this matter.
Attorneys request to be relieved as counsel, citing that Plaintiff did
not provide a signed substitution of attorney form and asserting that a
breakdown in the attorney-client relationship has made effective representation
unreasonably difficult.
Under
California Rule of Court 2.251 and Code of Civil Procedure section 1010.6,
electronic service must be accompanied by a declaration affirming that the
client’s current electronic service address was confirmed within 30 days before
filing the motion. Merely sending notice to the last known address, without
confirmation or return, does not satisfy the "current" address
requirement.  Here, Counsel filed the motion on August 23, 2024, with
proof of electronic service, but did not comply with Rule 2.251’s requirement
to confirm the Plaintiffs current electronic address within 30 days prior to
filing. Despite this issue, Plaintiffs filing of an opposition indicates they
have received actual notice of the Attorneys intent to withdraw.   Plaintiffs oppose the motion, contending that Attorneys have
not provided sufficient detail about the breakdown of the attorney-client
relationship. Although the explanation lacks specificity, counsel seeking to
withdraw may not disclose privileged attorney-client communications.  Therefore, of necessity, the details of the
breakdown in communication may not be disclosed (See CRC 3.1362, cited above).
Plaintiffs
declare that they have “lost trust in Ian Li” and are “actively looking for new
counsel to represent them in this matter” (Sun Decl. ¶ 13). Given these
statements, the Court finds that a sufficient breakdown in the attorney-client
relationship exists to justify the withdrawal. Furthermore, given that no trial
date has yet been set, this matter is not at a critical stage of the
proceedings.
The
Court GRANTS Attorneys motion to be relieved as counsel due to the breakdown in
the attorney-client relationship.  
“After
the order is signed, a copy of the signed order must be served on the client
and on all parties that have appeared in the case.”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e).)  The Order on this Motion
will not be effective “until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on
Plaintiff has been filed with the court.” (Ibid.)
GRANTS
Plaintiffs request for continuance to allow time to retain new counsel or
prepare to proceed without representation. A hearing on demurrer with motion to
strike is currently set for January 23, 2025. 
For the present, that hearing will remain on calendar and will also be
set for status re retention of new counsel. 

Counsel
is ordered to give notice.Dated: November 1, 2024 JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT 