


[1] Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s
opposition to the motion to compel (re: inspection demands), filed on November
13, 2023, apprised the court that Defendant had served responses.  Not so. 
Defendant’s opposition—at least the one filed with the court—omits any indication
that discovery responses were served or prepared. Plaintiff submits a copy of
Defendant’s opposition which indicates that Defense Counsel had “prepared”
responses.  It appears Defendant served
two different oppositions.  In any event,
both oppositions fail to state that responses were served.  “Prepared”, without more, does not mean
“served”.


[2]
Central to Plaintiff’s argument is his contention that the ICA is a
qui tam action and Plaintiff is a qui tam plaintiff.  The ICA, however, is not a qui tam action. A qui tam action
is “ ‘[a]n action  brought under a
statute that allows a private person to sue for a penalty, part of which the
government or some specified public institution will receive.’”  (People ex rel. Allstate Ins. Co. v.
Weitzman (2003) 107 Cal.App.4th 534, 538 [quoting Black’s Law Dict.
(7th ed.1999) p. 1262, col. 1], emphasis added.)  “Under California law, a qui tam action is
brought on behalf of the People of the State of California, and the People are
the real party in interest.”  (People
ex rel. Strathmann v. Acacia Rsch. Corp. (2012) 210 Cal.App.4th 487, 492
(cleaned up).)  In short, a qui tam
action is an action brought under a statute which (1) allows a private
individual to share a portion of any recovered civil penalty with the government,
and (2) allows a private individual to represent the interests of the People of
California.  Here, although the ICA
allows a private person to sue for a civil penalty (see Bus. & Prof. Code,
§ 22446.5(a)),
the ICA does not require any portion of the penalty to be paid to the
government or some specified public institution.  Each of the qui tam statutes mentioned
above—the False Claims Act, PAGA, the Insurance Frauds Prevention Act, and
Proposition 65—expressly provide for portions of the proceeds of the case to be
deposited with the government.  (See Gov.
Code, § 12652, subd. (g) [setting forth various amounts of the proceeds of the
action or settlement of the claim that is to be received by the state]; Lab.
Code, § 2699, subd. (m) [requiring 65% of recovered civil penalties to be
distributed to the Labor and Workforce Development Agency]; Ins. Code, § 1871.1,
subd. (g)(1)(A)(iv) [“Those portions of a judgment or settlement not
distributed pursuant to this subdivision shall be paid to the General Fund of
the state and, upon appropriation by the Legislature, shall be apportioned
between the Department of Justice and the Department of Insurance for enhanced
fraud investigation and prevention efforts.”]; Health & Saf. Code, §
25249.12, subds. (c), (d) [setting forth the allocation of civil and criminal
penalties in a Proposition 65 case to be deposited into the Safe Drinking Water
and Toxic Enforcement Fund and enforcement agency, respectively].)  By contrast, an ICA plaintiff, if aggrieved,
may keep all the civil penalties.  (See
Bus. & Prof. Code, § 22446.5(a).) 
Nonetheless, the court finds that Plaintiff is not entitled to the
requested discovery on other grounds.

