 Case Number:  23STCV08662    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      November 7, 2024                                       TRIAL DATE:  November
10, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         A. U. C. v. Aroldo Marroquin
 
CASE NO.:                 23STCV08662
 





















 
MOTION
TO COMPEL COMPLIANCE WITH NOVEMBER 30, 2023 ORDER AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY
SANCTIONS



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
A. U. C.
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant Aroldo
Marroquin
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            On October
31, 2023, Plaintiff, A. U. C., filed a motion to compel Defendant, Aroldo
Marroquin, to provide responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One.  While the motion was
pending, Defendant served responses which included objections.  Neither party apprised the court that
responses had been served.  
 
            On November
30, 2023, the court granted Plaintiff’s motion to compel.  The court ordered Defendant to provide objection-free
responses within 30 days of the date of the court’s order.  Thereafter, Plaintiff inquired as to whether
Defendant would be providing objection-free responses.  Defendant has not provided supplemental
responses.
 
            On April
15, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion to compel Defendant to comply with the
court’s November 30, 2023 order. 
Alternatively, Plaintiff requested terminating sanctions in the form of
striking Defendant’s answer and entering an order rendering a judgment by
default.  Plaintiff also requested monetary
sanctions against Defendant.
 
            The motion
was heard on May 9, 2024.  The court
issued a tentative ruling denying Plaintiff’s motion because Defendant served
responses before the hearing for Plaintiff’s motion to compel on November 30,
2023.  After oral argument, the court continued
the hearing and ordered supplemental briefing. 

 
The motion was heard on August 21, 2024.  The court issued another tentative ruling directing
supplemental briefing on the third-party privacy concerns raised by Defendant.
 
The issues have been briefed.  The court now rules as follows.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
 
            “If a party to whom a demand for inspection, copying,
testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a timely response to it, the
following rules shall apply: . . . (B) The party making the demand may move for
an order compelling response to the demand.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300,
subd. (b).)  “If a party then fails to
obey the order compelling a response, the court may make those orders
that are just, including the imposition of an issue sanction, an
evidence sanction, or a terminating sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010)(emphasis added).  In
lieu of or in addition to this sanction, the court may impose a monetary
sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010).”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.320, subd. (c).) 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030 is a general
statute authorizing the Court to impose discovery sanctions for “misuse of the
discovery process,” which includes (without limitation) a variety of conduct
such as: making, without substantial justification, an unmeritorious objection
to discovery; making an evasive response to discovery; and unsuccessfully and
without substantial justification making or opposing a motion to compel or
limit discovery.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010.)¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿ 
If sanctions are sought, Code of Civil Procedure section
2023.040 requires that the notice specify the identity of the person against
whom sanctions are sought and the type of sanction requested, that the motion
be supported in the points and authorities, and the facts be set forth in a
declaration supporting the amount of any monetary sanction.¿¿¿ 
 
IV.       DISCUSSION 
 
            In the court’s
tentative ruling, issued in advance of the May 9, 2024 hearing, the court was
inclined to deny Plaintiff’s motion because Defendant served responses to
Plaintiff’s discovery requests on November 13, 2023.  Neither party notified the court that defense
counsel had prepared and served responses.[1]
 As such, the court explained in that
tentative ruling that, because Defendant had already complied, albeit prior to
the issuance of the court’s November 30, 2023, ruling, Plaintiff’s recourse was
to compel a further response.  Construed
as a motion to compel further, the court stated that Plaintiff’s motion was
untimely because 45 days had passed since Defendant served the responses.  The court did not adopt that ruling and ordered
additional briefing.  
 
Notably, Plaintiff’s motion seeks terminating sanctions.  A terminating sanction is a “drastic measure
which should be employed with caution.”  (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978)
84 Cal.App.3d 772, 793.)  “A decision to order terminating sanctions
should not be made lightly.  But where a violation is willful, preceded by
a history of abuse, and the evidence shows that less severe sanctions would not
produce compliance with the discovery rules, the trial court is justified in
imposing the ultimate sanction.”  (Mileikowsky v. Tenet Healthsystem
(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 262, 279-280.)  While the court has discretion to
impose terminating sanctions, these sanctions “should be appropriate to the
dereliction and should not exceed that which is required to protect the
interests of the party entitled to but denied discovery.”  (Deyo, supra,
84 Cal.App.3d at p. 793.)  “[A] court is empowered to apply the
ultimate sanction against a litigant who persists in the outright refusal to
comply with his discovery obligations.”  (Ibid.)  Discovery
sanctions are not to be imposed for punishment, but instead are used to
encourage fair disclosure of discovery to prevent unfairness resulting for the
lack of information.  (See Midwife v. Bernal (1988) 203 Cal.App.3d
57, 64 [superseded on other grounds as stated in Kohan v. Cohan (1991)
229 Cal.App.3d 967, 971].)   
 
Such a remedy is not appropriate here for a variety of
reasons:  Defendant served responses with
objections.  Defendant has not abandoned
the case.  While Defendant did not comply
with the court’s November 30, 2023, order, Defendant raised legitimate third-party
privacy concerns; concerns which were unknown to the court when it issued the
November 30, 2023, order. True, Defendant did not bring a motion for
reconsideration or a motion to request leave to raise objections.  Nonetheless, these failures do not support a
request for terminating sanctions. 
 
No other remedy (other than terminating sanctions) is sought
by Plaintiff.  Plaintiff did not move for
issue or evidentiary sanctions and has not made the requisite showing for such
relief.  A motion for another order to
compel Defendant to comply is redundant.
 
After the August 21, 2024, hearing, the court directed the
parties to brief (1) whether
documents showing violations of the ICA as to other customers are material and
relevant to Plaintiff’s case, and (2) whether any limits should be imposed on
the discovery, temporal or to assuage privacy interests.
Plaintiff argues he is “entitled to conduct
discovery to determine the full extent of Defendant’s violations of the ICA, as
to any customer of the Defendant, in order to discover evidence to support
Plaintiff’s burden of proof as to the entitlement to injunctive relief on
behalf of the general public and for statutory damages of $1,000 per
violation.”  (Motion, p. 4:9-12.)[2]
(a) A person claiming to be aggrieved by
a violation of this chapter by an immigration consultant may bring a civil
action for injunctive relief or damages, or both. If the court finds that the
defendant has violated a provision of this chapter, it shall award actual
damages, plus an amount equal to treble the amount of actual damages or one
thousand dollars ($1,000) per violation, whichever is greater. The court shall
also grant a prevailing plaintiff reasonable attorneys' fees and costs.
 
(b) Any other party who, upon
information and belief, claims a violation of this chapter has been committed
by an immigration consultant may bring a civil action for injunctive relief on
behalf of the general public and, upon prevailing, shall recover reasonable
attorneys' fees and costs.
(Emphasis
added.)
            Based upon the foregoing statutory
language there is a difference between an aggrieved person and “any other
party.”  The remedies are different as
well.  A person bringing the action on
behalf of the general public is not an aggrieved party but rather a “non-aggrieved”
party who, upon information and belief, believes an immigration consultant has
violated the Business and Professions Code sections 22440, et seq.
            Here, Plaintiff brings this action
as an aggrieved party.  (See Complaint, ¶
22.)  Discovery into Defendant’s alleged
violations of the ICA is therefore limited to Plaintiff’s individual claims.
IV.         CONCLUSION
 
            The motion
to compel compliance is DENIED. 
 
The request
for terminating sanctions is DENIED. 
 
Plaintiff to give notice. 

 
 
Dated:   November 7,
2024                              




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 


