 Case Number:  22STCV37959    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:      November 15, 2024                                    TRIAL DATE:  February
18, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                                T.R. v. Doe 1, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                      22STCV37959
 





















 
MOTION
TO CONTINUE DISCOVERY DATES PURSUANT TO COURT’S ORDER CONTINUING TRIAL



 
MOVING PARTY:                   Plaintiff
T.R. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Defendants
Doe 1 and Doe 2
 
 
I.          FACTUAL AND
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND 
 
This is a childhood sexual abuse case. According to the
complaint, in 1991 or 1992, T.R. was repeatedly sexually assaulted as minor by Reverend
Vincent E. Washington (Rev. Washington), a minister at Bethlehem Baptist Church
(Church).  The childhood sexual abuse
took place on Church’s premises.
 
On December 5, 2022, T.R. (hereafter, Plaintiff) commenced
this action against the Church (sued as Doe 1) and Rev. Washington (sued as Doe
2) (collectively, Defendants).    
 
On September 12, 2024, the court granted Plaintiff’s ex
parte application to continue the trial date. Pursuant to Plaintiff’s request,
trial was set to February 18, 2025. However, discovery deadlines remained tied
to the original trial date of November 18, 2024.  Discovery closed on October 18, 2024.  
 
On September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed this Motion to
Continue Discovery Dates Pursuant to Court’s Order Continuing Trial.  
 
On October 16, 2024, Defendants filed an opposition.
 
Plaintiff did not file a reply.
 
            Because
discovery has closed, the court construes Plaintiff’s motion as a motion to
reopen discovery.
 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD 
 
Except as otherwise provided, any party shall be entitled as
a matter of right to complete discovery proceedings on or before the 30th day,
and to have motions concerning discovery heard on or before the 15th day,
before the date initially set for trial of the action.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §
2024.020, subd. (a).)¿ On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to
complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard,
closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date
has been set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration demonstrating a good faith effort at informal resolution.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (a).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
 
The court shall take into consideration any matter relevant
to the leave requested, including, but not limited to: (1) the necessity and
the reasons for the discovery, (2) the diligence or lack of diligence of the
party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the
reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was
not heard earlier, (3) any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing
the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set,
or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party, and (4) the length of time that has elapsed between any date
previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.050, subd. (b).)¿¿
 
III.       DISCUSSION 
 
            Upon consideration
of the relevant factors and the filings in connection to this matter, the court
finds good cause does not exist to reopen discovery. 
 
The Relevant Factors 
 
1) The necessity of and reason for discovery:  Plaintiff’s
counsel states, “[t]he nature of this matter coupled with passage of time since
the dates of sexual assault will require significant additional discovery and
the testimony of numerous witnesses. Additional time extending beyond the
current discovery cut-off date will be required in order for the case to be
ready for trial.”  (Ekaireb Decl., ¶ 3.)  Missing from Plaintiff’s moving papers is any
explanation of the specific discovery needed and how that discovery improves
Plaintiff’s case. This factor weighs against Defendants’ request.   
  
2) Diligence or Lack of Diligence; Reasons Discovery Was
Not Completed; Earlier Hearing for the Motion:  Plaintiff’s counsel
states having “worked diligently to prosecute this matter and seeks to resolve
the case in a manner the preserves judicial and litigation resources and
economy.”  (Ekaireb Decl., ¶ 7.)  Without more, Plaintiff does not demonstrate diligence
in completing discovery.  This factor weighs
against Plaintiff’s request.  
 
3) Likelihood Permitting Discovery Will Prevent The Case
From Going To Trial; Interfere With The Trial Calendar; Result In Prejudice: 
Plaintiff does not discuss this element.  This factor weighs against
Plaintiff’s request.  
 
4) The Length Of Time Between The Prior Trial Date And
The Date Presently Set:  Trial was initially set for November 18, 2024.  Trial is now scheduled for February 18, 2025.
  
 
After balancing the factors and considering the equities,
the court does not find good cause to reopen discovery.  
 
IV.       CONCLUSION¿ 
 
The Motion to Continue Discovery, construed as a motion to
reopen discovery, is DENIED. 
 
            Defendants to
give notice, unless waived. 
 
Dated:   November 15,
2024                                   




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




 
            
 