  Case Number:  21STCV27870    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling 
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     November
15, 2024                           TRIAL
DATE:  January 27, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Comerica Bank v. Video
Tech Services, Inc., et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 21STCV27870
 





















 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR IN THE ALTERNATIVE FOR A MOTION FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION



 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff
Comerica Bank 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendants Video
Tech Services, Inc. and John Manzano
 
 
I.          FACTUAL AND PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND
            
This is a collections case.  As alleged in the Complaint, Plaintiff
Comerica Bank (Comerica or Plaintiff) is a banking institution.  Defendant Video Tech Services, Inc. (VTS)
provides audio and visual services for large events.  In 2018, VTS sought financing from
Comerica.  On November 29, 2018, VTS
executed and delivered to Comerica a Master Revolving Note (the Note) in the
principal amount of $250,000.  The Note
was secured by a Security Agreement granting Comerica a security interest in
VTS’s collateral.  The Note was further personally
guaranteed by John Manzano (Manzano).  According
to the terms of the Note, VTS agreed to pay Comerica accrued and unpaid
interest on the unpaid principal balance of each outstanding Advance on the
first business day of each month. The maturity date was “on demand” at the
discretion of Comerica.  On June 30,
2021, Comerica declared the entire balance due and owing under the Note;
payable immediately.  VTS and Manzano failed
to pay any of the sums due.
 
            Procedural
History
 
On July 29, 2021, Comerica filed a Complaint against VTS and
Manzano (hereafter, Defendants) for (1) Breach of Promissory Note, (2)
Foreclosure of Security Agreement and Possession of Collateral, (3) Breach of
Personal Guaranty, (4) Money Lent, and (5) Account Stated.[1]
 
            On June 28,
2023, Comerica filed a Motion for Summary Adjudication for the first and third
causes of action. 
 
            On
September 18, 2023, the court denied the motion because the court found “there are
triable issues of material fact with respect to modification of the note. In
turn, there are triable issues of material fact as to whether there was a
breach of contract, and which version
of the contract controls.”
 
            The Instant
Motion
 
            On July 10,
2024, Comerica filed this Motion for Summary Judgment or in the Alternative
Summary Adjudication.
 
On October 31, 2024, Defendants filed an opposition.
 
            On November
8, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply.
 
II.        LEGAL
STANDARD
 
When reviewing a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”¿ (Hinesley v. Oakshade
Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)¿¿A motion for summary judgment must be granted “if all the papers submitted
show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving
party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (c).)   
 
“[T]he initial burden is always on the moving party to make
a prima facia showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.”¿ (Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)¿ A defendant seeking summary judgment “bears the burden of
persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that he is
entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850 (Aguilar).) 
A defendant moving for summary judgment or summary adjudication “has met
his or her burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if the party
has shown that one or more elements of the cause of action . . . cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿ A moving defendant need not
conclusively negate an element of plaintiff’s cause of action.¿ (Aguilar,
supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 854.)¿¿ 
 
To meet this burden of showing a cause of action cannot be
established, a defendant must show not only “that the plaintiff does not
possess needed evidence” but also that “the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain needed evidence.”¿ (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p.
854.)¿ It is insufficient for the defendant to merely point out the absence of
evidence.¿ (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)¿ The
defendant “must also produce evidence that the plaintiff cannot reasonably
obtain evidence to support his or her claim.”¿ (Ibid.)¿ The supporting
evidence can be in the form of affidavits, declarations, admissions,
depositions, answers to interrogatories, and matters of which judicial notice
may be taken.¿ (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at p. 855.)¿¿ 
 
“Once the defendant … has met that burden, the burden
shifts to the plaintiff … to show that a triable issue of one or more material
facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)¿The plaintiff may not merely rely on allegations or
denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists,
but instead, “shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue
of material fact exists as to the cause of action.”¿(Ibid.)¿ A plaintiff
opposing summary judgment defeats the motion by showing one or more triable
issues of material fact exist as to the challenged element. (Aguilar, supra,
25 Cal.4th at p. 849.)  “If the plaintiff cannot do so, summary judgment
should be granted.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center
(2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)¿¿ 
 
The court must “liberally construe the evidence in support
of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve all doubts concerning the
evidence in favor of that party,” including “all inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom.” (Yanowitz v. L’Oreal USA, Inc. (2005) 36 Cal.4th 1028, 1037;
Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at pp. 844-45.)¿ “On a summary
judgment motion, the court must therefore consider what inferences favoring the
opposing party a factfinder could reasonably draw from the evidence.¿ While
viewing the evidence in this manner, the court must bear in mind that its
primary function is to identify issues rather than to determine issues.¿
[Citation.] Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the
issues as a matter of law.¿ If the evidence is in conflict, the factual issues
must be resolved by trial.” (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999) 75
Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)¿ “Put another way, have defendants conclusively negated
a necessary element of the [plaintiff’s] case or demonstrated that under no
hypothesis is there a material issue of fact that requires the process of
trial?”¿ (Jeld-Wen, Inc. v. Superior Court (2005) 131 Cal.App.4th 853,
860, internal citation omitted.)¿Further, “the trial court may not weigh the
evidence in the manner of a factfinder to determine whose version is more
likely true.¿ [Citation.]¿ Nor may the trial court grant summary judgment based
on the court’s evaluation of credibility.¿ [Citation.]” ¿(Id. at p. 840;
see also Weiss v. People ex rel. Department of Transportation (2020) 9
Cal.5th 840, 864 [“Courts deciding motions for summary judgment or summary
adjudication may not weigh the evidence but must instead view it in the light
most favorable to the opposing party and draw all reasonable inferences in
favor of that party”].)¿¿ 
 
III.       DISCUSSION
 
A.   
Judicial Notice
 
Comerica requests judicial notice of its Complaint and Defendants’
Answer to the Complaint.  The court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers, except the evidence
to which objections have been made and sustained by the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(c).) Therefore,
Comerica’s request is unnecessary.  The court
declines to rule on the request.
 
B.    
Evidentiary
Objections
 
1.     
Defendants’
Objections
 
Defendants object to Paragraphs 1-5 of the declaration of
Barry J. Cohen.  The objection, which is
not in the proper format, is OVERRULED.
 
2.     
Plaintiff’s
Objections
 
Plaintiff submits twenty-three (23) objections to portions
of the declaration of John Manzano.  The
objections are OVERRULED.
 
C.    
Analysis
 
Plaintiff seeks summary judgment, or summary adjudication of
the first, second, third, and fifth causes of action.  As a threshold issue, Judge Murillo denied
Plaintiff’s previous motion for summary adjudication of the first cause of
action for breach of promissory note and third cause of action for breach of
personal guaranty because there were “triable issues of material fact with
respect to modification of the note. In turn, there are triable issues of
material fact as to whether there was a breach of contract, and which version of
the contract controls.”  (Minute Order,
9/18/23.)  Plaintiff did not file a
motion for reconsideration.  The time to
do so has long passed.  Instead,
Plaintiff filed a nearly identical motion with respect to the first and third
causes of action.  This is expressly
prohibited by the summary judgment statute.  
 
CCP section 473c(f)(2) states, in relevant part, “A party
shall not move for summary judgment based on issues asserted in a prior motion
for summary adjudication and denied by the court unless that party establishes,
to the satisfaction of the court, newly discovered facts or circumstances or a
change of law supporting the issues reasserted in the summary judgment motion.”  
 
In reply, Plaintiff argues the California Supreme Court in Le
Francois v. Goel (2005) 35 Cal.4th 1049 held that a trial court has
authority to consider a new motion for summary judgment
regardless of whether it was based on new facts or new law.  Not so. 
This view is based on a selective reading of Le Francois.  The Supreme Court held “that [CCP] sections
473c and 1008 limit the parties’ ability to file repetitive motions but do not
limit the court’s ability, on its own motion, to reconsider its prior interim
orders so it may correct its own errors.” 
(Le Francois, 35 Cal.4th at p. 1107.)  “Unless the requirements of section 437c,
subdivision (f)(2), or 1008 are satisfied, any action to reconsider a prior
interim order must formally begin with the court on its own motion. To
be fair to the parties, if the court is seriously concerned that one of its
prior interim rulings might have been erroneous, and thus that it might want to
reconsider that ruling on its own motion—something we think will happen rather
rarely—it should inform the parties of this concern, solicit briefing, and hold
a hearing.”  (Id. at p. 1108, italics
in original.)  
 
Here, it is undisputed Plaintiff has not presented any new
facts, circumstances, or changes in law that warrant a different ruling on
Plaintiff’s first and third causes of action. 
Accordingly, the motion is denied as to those claims.[2]  The court proceeds to analyze the second and fifth
causes of action. 


1.     
Foreclosure of Security Agreement
and Possession of Collateral (2nd Cause of Action)  
 
The second cause of action is a breach of contract
claim.  The elements of breach of contract
are: “(1) the contract, (2) plaintiff's performance or excuse for
nonperformance, (3) defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to
plaintiff.” (Kumaraperu v. Feldsted (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 60, 70.). It
is based on the following allegations:
 
To
secure payment of the obligation set forth in said Note, Defendant executed and
delivered to Plaintiff a Security Agreement, granting to Plaintiff a security
interest in all accounts (including health care insurance receivables), chattel
paper, deposit accounts, documents, equipment, general intangibles, goods,
instruments, inventory, investment property, equipment and fixtures described
therein (hereinafter the “Collateral”). 
(Complaint, ¶ 15.)
 
Plaintiff
duly performed or was excused from performing all of its obligations to be performed
under said Security Agreement.  (Complaint,
¶ 16.)
 
By virtue of Defendant’s default in payment on the Note,
Plaintiff is entitled to
immediate possession of the Collateral.  (Complaint, ¶ 17.)
 
Plaintiff argues each element of the breach of contract
claim is pleaded.  In support, Plaintiff points
to the undisputed fact that Plaintiff and VTS executed a Commercial Security
Agreement (Security Agreement) which granted Plaintiff a security interest in
the collateral.  (Plaintiffs’ Undisputed
Material Facts (UMF) 27, 32.)  Plaintiff
perfected its ownership interest in the collateral by filing a UCC Financing
Statement with the Secretary of State. 
(UMF 28.) VTS defaulted on the payment. 
(Cohen Decl., ¶¶ 9, 18.)  Pursuant
the terms of the Security Agreement, Plaintiff accelerated all sums due.  (Cohen Decl., ¶¶ 12, 18, Ex. 1.)  Due to VTS’s default, Plaintiff is also entitled
to immediate possession of the collateral. 
(Cohen Decl., ¶ 23, Ex. 3.)  Plaintiff
performed or was excused from performing all terms and conditions of the
Note.  (Cohen Decl., ¶ 8.)  Plaintiff meets its initial burden to show
there are no triable issues of material fact. 

 
The burden shifts.  Defendants
argue VTS is not in default because the parties orally modified the Note.[3]
 “[N]otwithstanding a provision in a
written contract that expressly precludes oral modification, the parties may,
by their words or conduct, waive the enforcement of a contract provision if the
evidence shows that was their intent.” (Wind Dancer Production Group v. Walt
Disney Pictures (2017) 10 Cal.App.5th 56, 80.). In support, Plaintiff
offers the declaration of John Manzano to establish that the parties entered
into an oral modification of the Note whereby Plaintiff agreed to defer
principal payments of the Note and not call the loan so long as VTS made
interest payments.  (Manzano Decl., ¶¶ 11,
13.)  VTS made timely, monthly, interest-only
payments pursuant to the oral agreement. 
(Manzano Decl., ¶¶ 12, 14, Exs. 5 and 6.)  However, despite making timely payments,
Plaintiff issued a notice of default and closed the account.  (Manzano Decl., ¶ 15.)  
 
Plaintiff argues, as it did before in connection with their prior
Motion for Summary Adjudication, that an oral agreement cannot modify the Note
because it is expressly prohibited by the Note. 
“The undersigned acknowledge(s) and agree(s) that there are no contrary
agreements, oral or written, establishing a term of this Note and agree(s) that
the terms and conditions of this Note may not be amended, waived or modified
except in a writing signed by an officer of the Bank expressly stating that the
writing constitutes an amendment, waiver or modification of the terms of this
Note.”  (Motion, Ex. 1.)  In response, Defendants offer evidence that the
Note was modified and, pursuant to that modification, Defendants made
interest-only payments which Plaintiff accepted.  Stated another way, Defendants evidence shows
Plaintiff waived enforcement of the contract provision prohibiting oral
modifications to the Note by accepting the interest-only payments.  The court finds, as it did before in the
September 18, 2023, order denying Plaintiff’s Motion for Summary Adjudication, that
“Defendants have presented evidence sufficient to show that Plaintiff, by its conduct
of accepting interest only payments, showed an intent to waive the enforcement
of the contract provision requiring amendment or modification to be in writing.”  (Minute Order 9/18/23.)  There are triable issues of material fact with
respect to modification of the Note, whether there was a breach of contract,
and which version of the contract controls.
 
            The motion
for summary adjudication of the second cause of action is DENIED.
 
2.  Account Stated (5th
Cause of Action)
 
“The essential elements of an account stated are: (1)
previous transactions between the
parties establishing the relationship of debtor and
creditor; (2) an agreement between the parties,
express or implied, on the amount due from the debtor to the
creditor; (3) a promise by the debtor, express or implied, to pay the amount
due.”  (Zinn v. Fred R. Bright Co.
(1969) 271 Cal.App.2d 597, 600.)
 
            Plaintiff’s
fifth cause of action fails as a matter of law. 
“The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to
delimit the scope of the issues: the function of the affidavits or declarations
is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues
delimited by the pleadings. [Citation.]”¿ (FPI Dev., Inc. v.
Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 380.)¿ Evidence offered on
an¿unpleaded¿claim, theory, or defense is irrelevant because it is outside the
scope of the pleadings.”¿¿(California Bank & Trust v. Lawlor¿(2013)
222 Cal.App.4th 625, 637, fn. 3 (California Bank).)¿
 
            Here, Plaintiff
did not plead a cause of action for account stated.  Although Plaintiff refers to a fifth cause of
action for account stated in the caption of the Complaint, the claim itself is
not alleged anywhere in the body of the Complaint.  Plaintiff does not address this
argument.  Having not pleaded the claim, Plaintiff’s
evidence offered in support of the fifth cause of action is irrelevant.  
 
            The motion
for summary adjudication of the fifth cause of action is DENIED.
 
IV.       CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiff Comerica Banks’s Motion for Summary Judgment or in
the Alternative Summary adjudication is DENIED. 

 
            Defendants
to give notice.
 
The clerk of the court to give notice.  
 
 
Dated:   November 15,
2024                                   




 


   




 


  Kerry Bensinger  
  Judge of the Superior Court 




            


