  Case Number:  20STCV08577    Hearing Date:   January 16, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



CRAIG
  NELSON, et al.,  
  
         vs.
 
SCOTT
  NORTHERN, et al.


 Case No.: 
  20STCV08577
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 16, 2024



 
Defendants Mike Brown Grandstands, Inc.’s
and Scott Northern’s motion for leave to augment their expert witness
designation to designate Brian D. Avery, Ph.D. as their events management and
event safety expert in substitution for Defendants’ currently designated
expert, Bart Whitaker, is granted.  
Defendants’ request for sanctions against
Plaintiffs and their counsel of record, Christopher W. Wood, is denied.
Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions against
Defendants Mike Brown Grandstands, Inc. and Scott Northern is denied.
 
Defendants
Mike Brown Grandstands, Inc. (“Mike Brown”) and Scott Northern’s (“Northern”) (collectively,
“Defendants”) move for leave to augment their expert witness designation to
designate Brian D. Avery, Ph.D. (“Avery”), as their events management and event
safety expert in substitution for Defendants’ currently designated expert, Bart
Whitaker (“Whitaker”), on the grounds that Defendants’ currently designated
events management and events safety expert, Whitaker, has recently advised
defense counsel that, due to a personal matter, he will not be able to attend
trial on this case.  (Notice of Motion,
pg. ii; C.C.P. §§2034.610 et seq.)
Defendants
also move for sanctions against Plaintiffs Craig Nelson (“Craig”) and Stacy
Nelson (“Stacy”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) and their attorney of record,
Christopher W. Wood, in the amount of $2,060.00 for having to bring the instant
motion.  (Notice of Motion, pg. ii; C.C.P.
§2034.630.)
 
Legal
Standard
C.C.P.
§2034.620 provides:
The court shall grant
leave to augment or amend an expert witness list or declaration only if all of
the following conditions are satisfied:
 
(a)  The court has taken into account the extent
to which the opposing party has relied on the list of expert witnesses.
 
(b)  The court has determined that any party
opposing the motion will not be prejudiced in maintaining that party’s action
or defense on the merits.
 
(c)  The court has determined either of the
following:
 
(1)  The moving party would not in the exercise
of reasonable diligence have determined to call that expert witness or have
decided to offer the different or additional testimony of that expert witness.
 
(2)  The moving party failed to determine to
call that expert witness, or to offer the different or additional testimony of
that expert witness as a result of mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect, and the moving party has done both of the following:
 
(A)   Sought leave to augment or amend promptly
after deciding to call the expert witness or to offer the different or
additional testimony.
 
(B)   Promptly thereafter served a copy of the
proposed expert witness information concerning the expert or the testimony
described in Section 2034.260 on all other parties who have appeared in the
action.
 
(d)  Leave to augment or amend is conditioned on
the moving party making the expert available immediately for a deposition under
Article 3 (commencing with Section 2034.410), and on any other terms as may be
just, including, but not limited to, leave to any party opposing the motion to
designate additional expert witnesses or to elicit additional opinions from
those previously designated, a continuance of the trial for a reasonable period
of time, and the awarding of costs and litigation expenses to any party
opposing the motion.
 
(C.C.P.
§2034.620.)
 
Discussion
Defendants
have satisfied all of the conditions required to be granted leave to augment
their expert witness designation.  (C.C.P.
§2034.620.)  First, there is no potential
prejudice to Plaintiffs or any other parties because the opposing parties have
had ample opportunity to depose and respond to any new testimony by Avery.  (See Dickison v. Howen (1990) 220
Cal.App.3d 1471, 1478 [stating defendant’s originally designated expert gave
deposition testimony damaging to defendant constituted sufficient “surprise” to
permit defendant to augment his expert witness list, and granting defendant
such relief did not cause any prejudice to opposing party].)  The trial date of February 21, 2024, provides the
parties opposing this motion enough time to respond to Avery’s opinions.  (See Kennemur v. State of California (1982)
133 Cal.App.3d 907, 920 [“The [expert’s] deposition could have been taken after
court hours, thereby avoiding any disruption of the trial proceedings.”].)  Moreover, Avery’s opinions would be on the
same topics that Whitaker would have opined on, which avoids the possibility of
new topics being raised.  Defendants argue
they would make Avery available long before trial, providing the opposing parties
ample time to respond to his opinions ahead of trial. Under the prejudice
standard focusing on the opposing party’s ability to respond to the new
expert’s testimony, there would be no prejudice to any party from granting this
motion.  (Dickison, 220 Cal.App.3d
at pg. 1478.)
Further,
when Whitaker’s unavailability to continue serving as Defendants’ expert became
apparent, Defendants searched for a replacement expert, retained Avery, amended
their expert witness designation accordingly, and met and conferred with the opposing
parties regarding this issue.
Defendants
could not have anticipated the need for an expert witness to replace Whitaker because
his unavailability before trial was sudden and unexpected.
Assuming,
arguendo, Defendants should somehow have determined their need for a new
events management expert prior to receiving Whitaker’s notification, any
failure to reach this determination before then would be deemed surprise or
excusable neglect and does not bar Defendants from amending their expert
witness designation.  Whitaker’s
unavailability for trial was a surprise, notwithstanding the fact that this
information came from Defendants’ own expert, and because Whitaker’s notice of
unavailability did not occur until the time of his scheduled deposition,
Defendants’ failure to determine the need for a new events management expert
should be deemed excusable neglect by defense counsel and Defendants should not
be prejudiced by their attorneys’ excusable neglect.
Finally,
Defendants have sought leave to augment promptly after deciding to call Avery
as the proposed replacement expert witness. 
Defendants also include a copy of the proposed augmented expert witness
designation with the present motion, thus providing it to all parties.
Accordingly,
Defendant’s motion for leave to augment their expert witness designation to
designate Avery as their events management and event safety expert in
substitution for Defendants’ currently designated expert, Whitaker, is granted.
 
Sanctions
C.C.P.
§2034.630 provides, “The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to augment or amend expert witness
information, unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with
substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of
the sanction unjust.”
The
Court declines to award sanctions against Defendants or Plaintiffs on this
motion because it finds the circumstances of Whitaker’s unavailability make the
imposition of sanctions on either party unjust.
 
Conclusion
Defendants’
motion for leave to augment their expert witness designation to designate Brian
D. Avery, Ph.D. as their events management and event safety expert in
substitution for Defendants’ currently designated expert, Bart Whitaker, is
granted.  
Defendants’
and Plaintiffs’ request for sanctions against each other is denied.
Moving
Party to give notice.
 
Dated: 
January _____, 2024
                                                                             





  