  Case Number:  21STCV23573    Hearing Date:   November 21, 2024    Dept:  74 Ledesma v.  Moradzadeh et al.  Defendants General Anesthesia  Specialist Partnership Medical Group and Michelle Dee’s Motion to Exclude  Plaintiff’s Expert Dr. Geni Bennetts   BACKGROUND              This  motion arises out of a medical malpractice claim.   After  a motion for summary adjudication of issues, only a single cause of action for  negligence remains against defendants General Anesthesia Specialist Partnership  Medical Group (GASP), Michele Dee (Dee) (collectively Defendants) and Arash  Moradzadeh (Moradzadeh). On November 9, 2024, Defendants filed this motion to  exclude Plaintiff’s expert witness Dr. Geni Bennetts.                  LEGAL STANDARD             Parties  exchange expert witness information after a demand for an exchange of expert  witness information.  (Code Civ. Proc. §  2034.260(a).)  The exchange must include  “(1) [a] list setting forth the name and address of a person whose expert  opinion that party expects to offer in evidence at the trial.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2034.260(b)(1).)  The list should include (1) a statement of  the qualifications of each expert, (2) a statement of the general substance of  the testimony that the expert is expected to give, (3) a representation that  the expert has agreed to testify at trial, (4) a representation that the expert  will be sufficiently familiar with the action to give meaningful testimony, and  (5) the expert’s hourly and daily fee.   (Code Civ. Proc. § 2034.260(c).)               A  party may provide a supplemental expert witness list within 20 days of the  exchange to add an expert “who will express an opinion on a subject to be  covered by an expert designated by an adverse party to the exchange, if the  party supplementing an expert witness list has not previously retained an  expert to testify on that subject.”   (Code Civ. Proc. § 2034.280(a).)              Upon  the timely objection of a party, the Court shall exclude the expert witness if  the party has unreasonably failed to: (a) List that witness as an expert under  Section 2034.260; (b) Submit an expert witness declaration; (c) Produce reports  and writings of expert witnesses; and (d) Make that expert available for a  deposition.  (Code Civ. Proc. §  2034.300.) A court may exclude an expert’s testimony on specific subjects when  the supplemental expert witness declaration fails to provide fair notice that  those subjects will be covered in that supplemental expert’s testimony.  (Ajaxo, Inc. v. E*Trade Fin. Corp.  (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 129, 181-185.)   DISCUSSION             On  July 8, 2024, parties served their Designation of Expert Witnesses.  Defendants designated Dr. Kevin Becker (Dr.  Becker) to testify on “medical care and treatment provided to the plaintiff and  the issues of standard of care, causation and damages.”  (Kjar Decl., Ex. “B.”)  Plaintiff designated Dr.  Charles Sophy (Dr. Sophy) to testify on “emotional distress, causation,  damages, defendants’ and standard industry practices and procedures, standard  of cares and all topics the expert is qualified to opine on in relation to the  foregoing or any related topics.  (Kjar  Decl., Ex. “C.”)               On July 29, 2024, parties exchanged their supplemental  expert lists.  Plaintiff identified Dr.  Geni Bennetts (Dr. Bennetts) to testify on “the medical  care and treatment rendered to Plaintiff, standard of care, causation and  damages, and all topics the expert is qualified to opine on in relations to the  foregoing or any related topics.”   (Kjar Decl., Ex. “E.”)                Plaintiff  contends that Dr. Bennetts’ testimony is responsive to Defendants’ experts  addressing medical professional privacy standards of care, HIPAA, medical  ethics, and policies and procedures. Plaintiff’s contention is substantially  more detailed than the supplemental expert witness declaration.  The court may exclude supplemental expert  testimony when the supplemental witness declaration fails to provide fair  notice of the subjects that will be covered in the testimony.  (Ajaxo, Inc., supra, 48  Cal.App.5th 129, 181-189.)  Therefore,  the Court will consider the description stated in the Supplemental Expert  Witness Declaration.               Based  only on the Plaintiff’s designations describing the two experts, it appears  that Dr. Bennetts’ testimony only differs from Dr. Sophy in relation to  “medical care and treatment rendered to Plaintiff.”  This is directly responsive to Dr. Becker’s  testimony on “medical care and treatment provided to Plaintiff.” The court will  exclude expert testimony from Dr. Bennett except for testimony about the  medical care and treatment rendered to Plaintiff.     CONCLUSION             The  Court grants in part Defendant’s motion to exclude Plaintiff’s expert  witness.  Plaintiff’s expert witness Dr.  Geni Bennett may only testify about the medical care and treatment rendered to  Plaintiff.               Defendants  to give notice.   ////////////////////////Defendants General Anesthesia  Specialist Partnership Medical Group and Michelle Dee’s Motion to Exclude  Plaintiff’s Expert Dr. Athleo Cambre   BACKGROUND              This  motion arises out of a medical malpractice claim.   After  a motion for summary adjudication of issues, only a single cause of action for  negligence remains against defendants General Anesthesia Specialist Partnership  Medical Group (GASP), Michele Dee (Dee) and Arash Moradzadeh. On November 9,  2024, defendant Moradzadeh (Defendant) filed this motion to exclude Plaintiff’s  expert witness Dr. Athleo Cambre (Dr. Cambre).      LEGAL STANDARD             Parties  exchange expert witness information after a demand for an exchange of expert  witness information.  (Code Civ. Proc. §  2034.260(a).)  The exchange must include  “(1) [a] list setting forth the name and address of a person whose expert  opinion that party expects to offer in evidence at the trial.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 2034.260(b)(1).)  The list should include (1) a statement of  the qualifications of each expert, (2) a statement of the general substance of  the testimony that the expert is expected to give, (3) a representation that  the expert has greed to testify at trial, (4) a representation that the expert  will be sufficiently familiarity with the action to give meaningful testimony,  and (5) the expert’s hourly and daily fee.   (Code Civ. Proc. § 2034.260(c).)               A  party may provide a supplemental expert witness list within 20 days of the  exchange to add an expert “who will express an opinion on a subject to be  covered by an expert designated by an adverse party to the exchange, if the  party supplementing an expert witness list has not previously retained an  expert to testify on that subject.”   (Code Civ. Proc. § 2034.280(a).)             Upon  the timely objection of a party, the Court shall exclude the expert witness if  the party has unreasonably failed to: (a) List that witness as an expert under  Section 2034.260; (b) Submit an expert witness declaration; (c) Produce reports  and writings of expert witnesses; and (d) Make that expert available for a  deposition under Article 3.  (Code Civ.  Proc. § 2034.300.)  A court may exclude  an expert’s testimony on specific subjects when the declaration fails to  provide fair notice that those subjects will be covered in that supplemental  expert’s testimony.  (Ajaxo, Inc. v.  E*Trade Fin. Corp. (2020) 48 Cal.App.5th 129, 181-185.)   DISCUSSION             On  July 8, 2024, parties served their Designation of Expert Witnesses.  Defendants designated Linton Mohammed as an  expert witness in forensic documents and handwriting.  (Okayo Decl., Ex. “B.”)  Defendants GASP and Dee designated Dr. Kevin  Becker as an expert regarding the anesthesiology services provided to  Plaintiff.  Plaintiff designated Dr.  Charles Sophy (Dr. Sophy) to testify on “emotional distress, causation,  damages, defendants’ and standard industry practices and procedures, standard  of cares and all topics the expert is qualified to opine on in relation to the  foregoing or any related topics.  (Okayo  Decl., Ex. “D.”)             On  July 29, 2024, parties exchanged their supplemental expert lists.  Plaintiff identified Dr. Athleo Cambre, Jr  (Dr. Cambre) to testify regarding “the medical care and treatment rendered to  Plaintiff, standard of care, causation and damages, and all topics the expert  is qualified to opine on in relations to the foregoing or any related topics.”  (Okayo Decl., Ex. “G.”)               Plaintiff  contends that Dr. Cambre is expected to testify about the medical care and  treatment rendered to Plaintiff as well as to opine on issues related to  medical ethics, responsibilities, and media for plastic surgery medical  professionals.  (Opp., p. 4.)  Plaintiff’s contention is substantially more  detailed than the supplemental witness declaration.  The court may exclude supplemental expert  testimony when the declaration fails to provide fair notice of the subjects  that will be covered in the testimony.  (Ajaxo,  Inc., supra, 48 Cal.App.5th 129, 181-189.)  Therefore, the Court will consider the  description stated in the Supplemental Expert Witness Declaration.               Based  only on the Plaintiff’s designations describing the two experts, it appears  that Dr. Cambre’s testimony differs from Dr. Sophy only in relation to “medical  care and treatment rendered to Plaintiff.”   This is directly responsive to Dr. Becker’s testimony on “medical care  and treatment provided to Plaintiff.”               Defendant  also alleges that Dr. Cambre’s testimony would be redundant and cumulative  given that Plaintiff also supplementally designated Dr. Geni A. Bennetts as an  expert on the same subjects.  Defendant  cites to Basham v. Babcock (1996) to support that parties are generally  expected to have only one expert per specialty.   (44 Cal.App.4th 1717, 1723.)  Basham  specifically states that it is improper to rule that “the experts’ testimony  could not be redundant.”  (Id. at  p. 1723.)  Therefore, the Court declines  to exclude Dr. Cambre’s testimony simply because it may be redundant.              The  court will exclude expert testimony from Dr. Cambre except for testimony about  the medical care and treatment rendered to Plaintiff.     CONCLUSION             The  Court grants in part Defendant’s motion to exclude Plaintiff’s expert  witness.  Plaintiff’s expert witness Dr. Athleo  Cambre may only testify about the medical care and treatment rendered to  Plaintiff.               Defendants  to give notice.