 Case Number:  24STCV05154    Hearing Date:   October 16, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   October
16, 2024                                            
 
CASE NAME:           Antonio
Tovar v. Kumquat Holdings, LLC
 
CASE NO.:                24STCV05154

 
MOTION
TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendant
Kumquat Holdings, LLC
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Antonio Tovar
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order compelling arbitration and staying proceedings.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED;
2.      The
matter is STAYED pending arbitration.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On February 29, 2024, Plaintiff Antonio Tovar (Plaintiff)
filed a Complaint against Defendant Kumquat Holdings, LLC with two causes of
action for: (1) Age Discrimination; and (2) Wrongful Termination [in violation
of public policy]. Plaintiff alleges that he worked for Defendant in their
laundry department and was wrongfully terminated due to his age.
 
On May 15, 2024, Defendant filed an Answer.
 
On June 12, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion to
compel arbitration. On October 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On
October 9, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
This
court is unaware of any legal authority which requires a court to rule on
evidentiary objections on a motion, except as to a motion for summary
motion/adjudication (Cal. Code Civ. Proc. (CCP) § 437c (q)] or a special
motion to strike (CCP § 425.16 (b)(2); see also, Sweetwater Union High School Dist. v. Gilbane Building Co. (2019)
6 Cal.5th 931, 947-949.) As such, this court respectfully declines to
rule on any of these objections.  This court is well aware of the rules of
evidence, and to how much weight, if any, should be given to any of the
proposed evidence.
 
Compel
Arbitration
 
Under
California law, the trial court has authority to compel arbitration pursuant to
CCP §1281.2 where a written agreement for such arbitration exists and one of
the parties refuses to arbitrate.¿ Specifically, the statute provides that,
“[o]n petition of a party to an arbitration agreement alleging the existence of
a written agreement to arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses
to arbitrate such controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement
arbitrate the controversy exists.”¿ The statute further sets forth four grounds
upon which the trial court may refuse to compel arbitration: (a) the right to
compel arbitration was waived, (b) recission of the agreement, (c) there is a
pending action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the
same transaction; and (d) petitioner is a state or federally chartered
depository institution.¿
 
“[T]he petitioner bears the burden of proving the existence
of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the evidence . . .
.”¿¿(Giuliano v. Inland Empire Personnel,
Inc.¿(2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 1276, 1284¿(Guiliano).)¿“In
determining whether an arbitration agreement applies to a specific dispute, the
court may examine only the agreement itself and the complaint filed by the
party refusing arbitration [citation]. The court should attempt to give effect
to the parties' intentions, in light of the usual and ordinary meaning of the
contractual language and the¿circumstances under which the agreement was
made.”¿¿(Weeks v. Crow¿(1980) 113
Cal.App.3d 350, 353.)¿ “To determine whether a contractual arbitration clause
requires arbitration of a particular controversy, the controversy is first
identified and the issue is whether that controversy is within the scope of the
contractual arbitration clause.”¿¿(Titolo¿v.
Cano¿(2007) 157 Cal.App.4th 310, 316.)¿ “Doubts as to whether an
arbitration clause applies to a particular dispute are to be resolved in favor
of sending the parties to arbitration. The court should order them to arbitrate
unless it is clear that the arbitration clause cannot be interpreted to cover
the dispute.”¿¿(California Correctional
Peace Officers¿Ass'n¿v. State¿(2006) 142 Cal.App.4th 198, 205.)¿¿¿
 
However, when an arbitration agreement states that the Federal
Arbitration Act (FAA) governs enforcement, the FAA governs a motion to compel
arbitration. (Victrola 89, LLC v. Jaman
Properties 8 LLC (2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 337, 345-346 (Victrola 89).) “A written provision … to settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter
arising … or … to submit to arbitration an existing controversy … shall
be valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, save upon such grounds as exist at law or in equity for the revocation
of any contract.” [9 U.S.C. § 2 (emphasis added)] A party to an
arbitration agreement may seek a court order compelling the parties to
arbitrate a dispute covered by the agreement. (9 U.S.C. § 4.)
 
Under both the
FAA and California Law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and
enforceable, except on such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a
contract.  (Winter v. Window
Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) 
“[A] party opposing the petition bears the burden of proving
by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.
[Citation.] In these summary proceedings, the trial court sits as a trier of
fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other documentary
evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court's discretion, to
reach a final determination.”¿¿(Giuliano,
supra, at p. 1284.)¿¿
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
As a threshold matter, the court applies the FAA to
interpret the Mutual Arbitration Agreement (MAA) because there is a clear
provision stating that it applies. (Hyder Decl., Exhibit A.) 
 

Existence of the Arbitration
     Agreement 

 
Defendant has met its burden to show the signature on the
arbitration agreement was signed by Plaintiff by a preponderance of the
evidence. (Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group,
Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th 836, 843.) Plaintiff does not challenge his
signature, rather, he contends he does not remember signing the MAA. (Tovar
Decl. ¶ 7.) 
 
Accordingly, an arbitration agreement exists.
 
2.     
Enforceability
of the Agreement
The FAA establishes a strong federal policy in favor of
arbitration of disputes where a written arbitration agreement exists. Section 2
of the FAA provides, in pertinent part that “[a] written provision . . . to
settle by arbitration a controversy thereafter arising out of such contract . .
.  shall be valid, irrevocable, and enforceable.”  (9 U.S.C.
§2.)  The purpose of the FAA is to “reverse the longstanding judicial
hostility to arbitration agreements.” (Gilmer
v. Interstate/Johnson Lane Corp. (1991) 500 U.S. 20, 24.)  The FAA
places arbitration agreements “on an equal footing with other contracts and
[requires courts] to enforce them according to their terms.”  (AT&T Mobility, LLC v. Concepcion (2011)
563 U.S. 333, 339; see also Rent-A-Center West, Inc. v. Jackson (2010)
561 U.S. 63, 67 [“The FAA reflects the fundamental principle that arbitration
is a matter of contract.”].)  The FAA will preempt not only a state law
that “discriminat[es] on its face against arbitration,” but also a state law
that “covertly accomplishes the same objective by disfavoring contracts that
(oh so coincidentally) have the defining features of arbitration
agreements.”  (Kindred Nursing
Centers Limited Partnership v. Clark (2017) 137 S.Ct. 1421, 1426.) 
 
The United States Supreme Court has specifically held that
the FAA applies to employment contracts: “[A]s a matter of law the answer is
clear.  In the FAA, Congress has instructed federal courts to enforce
arbitration agreements according to their terms.”  (Epic Systems Corp. v. Lewis (2018) 138 S.Ct. 1612, 1619, [holding
that employees must submit to arbitration agreements including those with
collective action waivers].)   
 
The FAA restricts a court’s inquiry related to compelling
arbitration to two threshold questions: (1) whether there was an agreement to
arbitrate between the parties; and (2) whether the agreement covers the
dispute.[1] 
(Howsam v. Dean Witter Reynolds, Inc. (2002)
537 U.S. 79, 84.)  
 
California law also favors arbitration for dispute
resolution. The California Arbitration Act (“CAA”), codified at CCP §1281 et seq., provides, “A written agreement
to submit to arbitration an existing controversy or a controversy thereafter
arising is valid, enforceable and irrevocable, save upon such grounds as exist
for the revocation of any contract.” (CCP §1281; see also Grafton Partners L.P. v. Superior Court (2005) 36 Cal.4th
944, 955 [“[U]nlike predispute jury waivers, predispute arbitration agreements
are specifically authorized by statute.”].) 
The statute mandates arbitration when agreement to do so exists: 
 
On petition of a party to an
arbitration agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to
arbitrate a controversy and that a party thereto refuses to arbitrate such
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to arbitrate
the controversy if it
determines that an agreement to arbitrate the controversy exists. 
 
(C.C.P. §1281.2.) 
 
“California law, like federal law, favors enforcement of
valid arbitration agreements.” (Armendariz
v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 97,
99.) The public policy in favor of arbitration is so strong that California
courts have held that an employee is “bound by the provisions of the
[arbitration] agreement regardless of whether [he] read it or [was] aware of
the arbitration clause when [he] signed the document.”  (Brookwood
v. Bank of America (1996) 45 Cal.App.4th 1667, citing Macaulay v. Norlander (1992) 12 Cal.App.4th 1.)  The only prerequisite for a court to order
arbitration is a determination that the parties have entered into an agreement
to arbitrate the dispute.  (United Transportation Union v. Southern Cal.
Rapid Transit District (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 804, 808.) Thus, arbitration
must be ordered “unless the agreement clearly does not apply to the dispute in
question.” (Vianna v. Doctors’ Management
Co. (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1186, 1189.)
 
Here, Defendant met their burden that the MAA is
enforceable. First, as noted above, Defendant demonstrated that the MAA exists.
(Hyder Decl., Exhibit A.) Second, the MAA applies to the instant dispute
because it covers “all potential claims relating to employment and termination
of employment . . . .” (Ibid.)
Plaintiff does not challenge that the MAA covers the subject dispute.
 
Accordingly, the MAA is enforceable.
 
3.      Defenses to Enforcement
Plaintiff argues the court should not enforce the MAA for
several reasons. Notably, Plaintiff contends the MAA is void because he could
not understand it since he cannot read English and that no one explained to
him, in Spanish, what he was signing.[2]
Defendant contends the MAA is not unconscionable because it meets the Armendariz factors and Plaintiff did not
show that he ever sought explanation of the MAA.
 
i.                   
Mutual
Assent & Fraud
A contract may be voided for fraud in the execution when the
“‘“promisor is deceived as to the nature of his act, and actually does not know
what he is signing, or does not intend to enter into a contract at
all.”’”  (Rosenthal v. Great Western
Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 415 (Rosenthal).)  Fraud in the execution involves “‘a
misrepresentation as to the character or essential terms of a proposed contract
[that] induces conduct that appears to be a manifestation of assent by one who neither knows nor has a
reasonable opportunity to know of the character or essential terms of the
proposed contract.’”  (Id. at
420 [quoting Rest.2d Contracts, § 163, coms. a & c, pp. 443-444].) 
 
“[M]utual consent is gathered from the reasonable meaning of
the words and acts of the parties, and not from their unexpressed intentions or
understanding.”  (1 Witkin, Summary 11th Contracts § 116 (2019).) 
“The failure to read an agreement, because of inability to read, or an
inability to understand English, are not cognizable grounds to avoid contracts,
because parties are expected to have others read or explain the contracts to
them.”  (Randas v. YMCA of
Metropolitan Los Angeles (1993) 17 Cal.App.4th 158, 163; Ramos v. Westlake Services LLC (2015)
242 Cal.App.4th 674, 686-687.)  The party opposing arbitration must prove
fraud by a preponderance of the evidence.  (Rosenthal, supra, 14
Cal.4th at 413.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff did not establish fraud warranting voiding
the MAA. The MAA is undisputably in English and Plaintiff cannot read or
functionally speak English. (Hyder Decl., Exhibit A; Tovar Decl. ¶ 5.) Defendant
has offered no evidence to controvert Plaintiff’s declaration. However,
Plaintiff failed to provide sufficient evidence that there was fraud in the
inception or execution of the contract. In Najarro
v. Superior Court, the Court of Appeal indicated that an employee who could
not read English (or Spanish) and who relied on her employer to explain what
she was signing lacked the requisite assent to enforce the arbitration
agreement. (70 Cal.App.5th 871, 886-887.) Unlike Najarro, Plaintiff here did not provide evidence that he asked what
he was signing and he either  relied on
his employer to explain what he was signing or was affirmatively misled on what
the documents stated. Instead his evidence indicates he worked for some
iteration of Defendant since 1985, spoke with his co-workers in Spanish, and
was directed to sign English document by his supervisor during his employment.
(Tovar Decl. ¶¶ 4, 5, 9.) Plaintiff failed to offer any evidence on the circumstances
surrounding the execution of the arbitration documents. Rather, Plaintiff does
not recall even signing the documents. As such, there is insufficient evidence
supporting a finding of fraud in the inducement or execution.
 
Accordingly, the MAA is not void.
 
ii.                 
Unconscionability
In Armendariz, the California Supreme Court stated
that when determining whether an arbitration agreement was unconscionable,
there is both a procedural and a substantive element. (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Service, Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 82, 114 (Armendariz)).¿¿Each
do not need to be present to the same degree. (Najarro, supra, 70 Cal.App.5th at p. 882.)
 
A.    Procedural
Unconscionability
Courts determine whether an agreement is procedurally
unconscionable by looking at surprise and oppression. Oppression is an
“inequality of bargaining power, when one party has no real power to negotiate
or a meaningful choice. Surprise occurs when the allegedly unconscionable
provision is hidden.” (Carmona v. Lincoln
Millennium Car Wash, Inc.¿(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 84 (Carmona).) Examples of contracts that
are procedurally unconscionable are contracts of adhesion, which is a
“standardized contract, which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior
bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to
adhere to the contract or reject it.” (Armendariz, supra, at p. 113). “The
circumstances relevant to establishing oppression include, but are not limited
to (1) the amount of time the party is given to consider the proposed contract;
(2) the amount and type of pressure exerted on the party to sign the proposed
contract; (3) the length of the proposed contract and the length and complexity
of the challenged provision; (4) the education and experience of the party; and
(5) whether the party’s review of the proposed contract was aided by an
attorney. (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019)
8 Cal.5th 111, 126-27 (OTO).)¿ 
 
Here, there is some degree of procedural unconscionability. Plaintiff
is correct that failing to attach the AAA Rules is procedurally unconscionable.
(Najarro, supra,70
Cal.App.5th at p. 885.) Plaintiff’s remaining argument for surprise is not well
taken. Notably, the MAA is a separate, three-page, standalone agreement, that
is not densely legalese. (Hyder Decl., Exhibit A.) For similar reasons, there
is no evidence of oppression.
 
Accordingly, the MAA is minimally procedurally
unconscionable. 
 
B.     Substantive
Unconscionability
“Substantive unconscionability pertains to the fairness of an
agreement's actual terms and to assessments of whether they are overly harsh or
one-sided.” (Carmona, supra, at p. 85). There are five minimum substantive requirements
to an enforceable arbitration agreement: (1) neutral arbitrators, (2) more than
minimal discovery, (3) written award sufficient for judicial review, (4) all
types of relief otherwise available in court, and (5) no unreasonable costs or
fees as a condition of access. (Armendariz, supra, at p.102.) When there is
little procedural unconscionability, a party opposing arbitration must show
substantial substantive unconscionability. (Id. at 114.)¿ 
 
Here,
Plaintiff has not shown substantive unconscionability. First, the MAA does have
a severability clause, so, to the extent any of the terms are substantively
unconscionable, the court may sever them.[3] (Hyder Decl., Exhibit A.)
Second, the MAA meets the Armendariz
factors. It provides for “a single neutral arbitrator,” “sufficient discovery
to adequately arbitrate their claims and defenses,” an “award . . . issued in
writing,” that the arbitrator “shall have the power to enter any award that
could be entered by any court having competent jurisdiction,” and the Defendant
bears the arbitrator’s costs. (Ibid.)

 
Accordingly,
there is no substantive unconscionability.
 
Therefore,
the MAA is not so unconscionable that it cannot be enforced. The court thus
GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration and to stay proceedings pending
arbitration.
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED;
2.      The
matter is STAYED pending arbitration. Post Arbitration Status Conference on
October 16, 2025 at 8:30 a.m.
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              October 16, 2024                    __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


