 Case Number:  24TRCV01003    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                       Wednesday,
May 29, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                           Calendar
No. 10
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Oliver Griffen v. Doty Brothers
Equipment Co., et al.
            24TRCV01003
1.      Sedgwick’s
Motion for Leave to File Complaint-in-Intervention 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Sedgwick’s Motion for Leave to File
Complaint-in-Intervention is granted. 
 
            Background
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on March 22, 2024. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff
was driving eastbound on El Segundo Boulevard. His truck drove over a metal
plate covering a hole that was created from construction. The weight of the
truck caused the plate to dislodge. Plaintiff hit his head on the ceiling of
the truck and the truck was damaged. 
 
Motion for Leave to File Complaint in Intervention
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 387(b) states: “An intervention
takes place when a nonparty, deemed an intervenor, becomes a party to an action
or proceeding between other persons by doing any of the following: (1) Joining
a plaintiff in claiming what is sought by the complaint. (2) Uniting with a
defendant in resisting the claims of a plaintiff. (3) Demanding anything
adverse to both a plaintiff and a defendant.”
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 387(d)(1) states: “The court shall,
upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or
proceeding if either of the following conditions is satisfied: (A) A provision
of law confers an unconditional right to intervene.  (B) The person seeking intervention claims an
interest relating to the property or transaction that is the subject of the
action and that person is so situated that the disposition of the action may
impair or impede that person's ability to protect that interest, unless that
person’s interest is adequately represented by one or more of the existing
parties.”
 
Code of Civ. Proc., 387(d)(2) states: “The court may,
upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the action or
proceeding if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation, or in the
success of either of the parties, or an interest against both.”
 
“When leave [to intervene] is granted, the intervenor
becomes a party with the same rights and remedies of the original
parties.”  4 Witkin, Cal. Proc., Sec. 226
(5th Ed. 2012) (citing People v. Perris
Irr. Dist. (1901) 132 Cal. 289, 290). 
“A party seeking intervention must ordinarily show an interest under the
existing pleadings and issues, and will not be allowed to come in on a claim
that enlarges the issues and changes the nature of the main proceedings.  4 Witkin, Cal. Proc., Sec. 227 (5th
Ed. 2012) (citing Muller v. Robinson
(1959) 174 Cal.App.2d 511, 515.)
 
Sedgwick moves for an order permitting it to file a
Complaint-in-Intervention pursuant to CCP § 387 as the workers’ compensation
administrator that insured Oliver Griffen’s employer, Gulf Transport LLC. Sedgwick
states that it paid workers’ compensation benefits in the total amount of
$50,112.47. 
 
Sedgwick has established that the motion is timely. The
motion was filed less than a month after Plaintiff filed the Complaint. There
is no trial date yet and the case is not at issue. The motion is considered
timely if brought within a reasonable time. See,
Sanders v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (1975) 53 Cal. App.3d 661,
668-69.  Here, no party has challenged
the motion based on untimeliness. 
 
Sedgwick has established that it has an interest in
this litigation that warrants intervention in this proceeding. Sedgwick has
paid workers compensation benefits to Plaintiff. Sedwick thus has an interest
in the outcome of this civil litigation since it has a statutory right to seek
reimbursement from the Defendants for payments made to Plaintiff in the
underlying workers’ compensation case. In addition, there is no showing that
granting leave to intervene will enlarge the issues or change the nature of the
proceedings. 
 
Thus, Sedgwick’s Motion for Leave to File
Complaint-in-Intervention is granted.
 
Sedwick is ordered to file and serve the proposed
Complaint-in-Intervention within five days of this date.
 
Sedgwick is ordered to give notice of this ruling. 
 