  Case Number:  22TRCV00954    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                       Wednesday, May 29. 2024
Department M                                                                                                                             Calendar No. 9  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Alireza
Ashraf v. Pacific L.P., et al.   
22TRCV00954
1.     
Alireza Ashraf’s
Motion to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories, Set One, and for Monetary
Sanctions
2.     
Alireza Ashraf’s Motion
to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories, Set One, and for Monetary
Sanctions
3.     
Alireza Ashraf’s Motion
to Compel Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set One, and for
Monetary Sanctions
4.     
Alireza Ashraf’s
Motion to Deem the Truth of Matters Specified in Requests for Admissions, Set
One, Admitted and for Monetary Sanctions
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Alireza Ashraf’s Motions to Compel Responses to Form
Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Request for Production of
Documents, Set One, and for Monetary Sanctions are granted. 
 
Alireza Ashraf’s Motion to Deem Truth of Matters
Specified in Requests for Admissions, Set One, Admitted and for Monetary
Sanctions is granted. 
 
Background
 
Plaintiff’s’ Complaint was filed on October 14, 2022.
Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Plaintiff purchased real property from
Defendant. However, defects existed on the property which were not disclosed to
Plaintiff. 
 
Motions to
Compel/Deem Admitted
 
CCP § 2030.290 states: “If a party to whom
interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the following
rules apply…The party propounding the interrogatories may move for an order
compelling response to the interrogatories.” (CCP § 2030.290(b).)  
 
CCP § 2031.300 states: “If a party to whom a demand
for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is directed fails to serve a
timely response to it, the following rules shall apply: The party making the
demand may move for an order compelling response to the demand.”  (CCP § 2031.300(b)).
 
Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280 states:
“If a party to whom requests for admission are
directed fails to serve a timely response, the following rules apply:
(a) The party to whom the requests for admission are
directed waives any objection to the requests, including one based on privilege
or on the protection for work product under Chapter 4 (commencing with Section
2018.010). The court, on motion, may relieve that party from this waiver on its
determination that both of the following conditions are satisfied:
(1) The party has subsequently served a response that
is in substantial compliance with Sections 2033.210, 2033.220, and 2033.230.
(2) The party's failure to serve a timely response was
the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(b) The requesting party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010).
(c) The court shall make this order, unless it finds
that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response to the requests
for admission that is in substantial compliance with Section 2033.220. It is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”
 
Plaintiff served upon Defendant Form Interrogatories,
Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, Request for Production of Documents,
Set One, and Requests for Admissions, Set One, on August 8, 2023. (Decls., Nima
Asadi, ¶¶ 6-11.)  Plaintiff contends that
no responses were served to the discovery requests.  (Id.)  Defendant
failed to file any written oppositions to the motions.
 
Therefore, the motions to compel responses to Form
Interrogatories, Set One, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Production of
Documents, Set One, are granted. Defendant is ordered to serve responses
without objections within 10 days of this date. 
 
The motion to deem Requests for Admissions, Set One,
admitted is granted. The truth of matters asserted in Requests for Admissions,
Set One, are deemed admitted.
 
Sanctions
 
Plaintiff’s requests for monetary sanctions are
granted. 
 
Defendant and Defendant’s counsel are sanctioned the
total amount of $1,840.00 which is calculated at 4 hours to prepare and appear
at $400 per hour, plus 4 filing fees of $60 each. 
 
Sanctions are payable within 30 days of this date.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.  