 Case Number:  23STCV14485    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  71 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
71
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



STANLEY
  BLACK,  
  
         vs.
 
ROBERT
  K. BARTH, et al.


 Case No.: 
  19STCV42090
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 8, 2024



 
Defendants
Robert K. Barth’s and Eastwind Financial, LLC’s unopposed motion for an order granting final approval of the Settlement Agreement and
Release is granted.
 
Defendants Robert K. Barth (“Barth”) and
Eastwind Financial, LLC (“Eastwind”) (collectively, “Defendants”) move unopposed
for an order granting final approval of the Settlement Agreement and Release.  (Notice Motion, pg. 2.)  The motion is brought on the grounds that (1)
the settlement was reached following extensive arm’s-length negotiations over a
period of more than eight months; (2) the settlement was negotiated following
an eight-day bench trial resulting in judgment for Plaintiffs Haderway PTC, LLC
(“Haderway”) and BFSB Portfolio, LP (“BFSB”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) and
during the pendency of cross-appeals; (3) the relative strengths and weaknesses
of the parties’ grounds for appeal weigh in favor of final approval; (4) the
risk, expense, complexity, and duration of the litigation, including the
parties’ pending appeals and the prospect of a retrial, weigh in favor of final
approval; and (5) the settlement is in the best interests of JBR Alondra, LLC
(“JBR”) and Centerville Place 1023 Main, LLC (“Centerville”) (collectively,
“Nominal Defendants”) and their members. 
(Notice Motion, pg. 2.)
 
Background
In November 2019, Stanley Black (“Black”) filed
this action derivatively on behalf of Nominal Defendants, two real estate
investment entities that were managed by Barth or his affiliates.  Black alleged that Barth had cheated Alondra
and Centerville out of approximately $6,600,000 in connection with a series of
transactions involving the purchase and sale of a single-family residence
located on Greenway Drive in Beverly Hills (“Greenway”).  Following several substitutions of plaintiffs
and the grant of summary adjudication in favor of Defendants on two causes of
action, the case proceeded to an eight-day bench trial in October and November
2021.
On April 28, 2022, this Court issued a final
statement of decision, in which the Court: (1) ruled for Plaintiffs  on their claims against Barth for breach of
fiduciary duty and misappropriation of opportunity; (2) ruled for Barth and
Eastwind on the claims for breach of contract and conversion; and (3) awarded
Plaintiffs compensatory damages in the amount of $6,692,740, along with
prejudgment interest from January 15, 2019, and punitive damages in the same
amount.  This Court entered judgment on
May 26, 2022.
Barth and Plaintiffs filed cross-appeals on
July 14, 2022, and July 26, 2022, respectively. 
While those cross-appeals have been pending, this Court awarded
Plaintiffs attorney fees in the amount of $1,401,491.50 under the common fund
doctrine, to be borne from the judgment amount, and costs in the amount of
$102,581.29.  The appeal and cross-appeal
have not been fully briefed and remain pending.
On April 19, 2024, Defendants filed their
unopposed Motion for Preliminary Approval of Settlement of Derivative Action,
which included the proposed notices to the direct and indirect members of
Centerville and Alondra (“Notices”).  On
July 3, 2024, this Court granted Defendants’ motion and preliminarily approved
the Settlement Agreement and Release.  (7/3/24
Minute Order.)  On August 6 and 7, 2024,
in accordance with the Preliminary Approval Order, Defendants’ counsel mailed
the Notices via first class mail to the addresses on record with Alondra and
Centerville or their affiliates for each of their direct and indirect members.  (Decl. of Klieger ¶24, Exhs. O, P.)
Defendants filed the instant motion on August
9, 2024.  As of the date of this hearing
no opposition has been filed.
 
Legal Standard
Settlements of derivative actions are subject
to court approval.  (Whitten v. Dabney
(1915) 171 Cal. 621, 630-632; Kennedy v.
Kennedy (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 1474, 1485
[“Dismissal of a derivative claim requires court approval.”].) 
California public policy strongly favors
settlements.  (See Osumi v. Sutton
(2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 1355, 1359 [“It is, of course, the strong public policy
of this state to encourage the voluntary settlement of litigation.”]; Hamilton
v. Oakland School District (1933) 2019 24 Cal. 322, 329 [“It is the policy
of the law to discourage litigation and to favor compromises.”].)
Under California law, a presumption of fairness
attaches to a settlement where: “(l) the settlement is reached through
arm’s-length bargaining; (2) investigation and discovery are sufficient to
allow counsel and the court to act intelligently; (3) counsel is experienced in
similar litigation; and (4) the percentage of objections is
small.”  (Dunk v. Ford
Motor Co. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1794, 1802.)  A court may also consider other relevant
factors, “such as the strength of 
plaintiffs’ case, the risk, expense, complexity and likely duration of
further litigation, the risk of maintaining class action status through trial,
the amount offered in settlement, the extent of discovery completed and the
stage of the proceedings, the experience and views of counsel, the presence of
a governmental participant, and the reaction . . . to the proposed
settlement.”  (Id. at pg. 1801.)
The ultimate determination of whether the
settlement is fair, reasonable, and adequate is made only after notice of the
settlement has been given to shareholders affording them an opportunity to
evaluate and comment on the proposed settlement.  (See Manual for Complex Litigation
§§21.633, 21.634 (4th ed. 2016).)
 
Discussion
The Settlement Agreement was reached through
many months of arm’s-length negotiations among experienced counsel fully versed
in the in relevant facts and law, meeting the first three factors that support
preliminary approval of the settlement. 
(Dunk, 48 Cal.App.4th at pg. 1802.)  
The parties commenced settlement negotiations
in June 2023.  (Decl. of Klieger ¶20.)  Defendants’ counsel
declares those settlement negotiations were conducted between the
same experienced trial counsel who had represented Plaintiffs and Defendants,
respectively, during the more than four years this case has been pending, along
with a highly regarded appellate specialist that Plaintiffs engaged as
co-counsel for purposes of the appeal. 
(Decl. of Klieger ¶20.) 
Defendants’ counsel declares the settlement negotiations continued for a
period of eight months, with the parties’ counsel spending more than a hundred
hours in the aggregate negotiating, drafting, and revising the settlement terms
and numerous iterations of the settlement documents.  (Decl. of Klieger ¶20.)  Defendants’ counsel declares the parties
finalized and executed the Settlement Agreement during the last week of
February 2024.  (Decl. of Klieger ¶20.)
Additional factors also weigh in favor of
preliminary approval of the settlement. 
The Settlement Agreement and Release fully redresses the damages caused
by Defendants’ alleged wrongdoing. Specifically, the settlement requires Barth
to pay to Alondra and Centerville all of the following: (1) the full amount of
compensatory damages awarded by the Court, in the amount of $6,692,740; (2) the
full amount of prejudgment interest awarded by the Court, in the amount of $1,713,242.42;
and (3) post-judgment interest at the rate of ten percent per annum through the
date of payment, which already exceeds $1,507,895.  (Motion, pg. 18; see Exh. 1 at §§3.1-3.2.)   These amounts are offset only by the amount
of the common fund attorneys’ fees award and costs award that have already been
approved by the Court.  Under the
Settlement Agreement, Alondra and Centerville will receive $8,409,804.63, which
is more than 125% of the compensatory damages claimed by Plaintiffs and awarded
by the Court.  In addition, the
attorneys’ fees and costs that Plaintiffs have incurred to date in connection
with the appellate proceedings, totaling $403,751.11, will be borne personally
by Barth, without any reduction of the settlement amount.  (Motion, pg. 19; Exh. 1 at §3.6.)
Further, the judgment shall be vacated, and the
entire action and all causes of action shall be dismissed with prejudice. The
judgment will nonetheless be accorded the force and effect of a final judgment
for purposes of res judicata, collateral estoppel, and similar doctrines and
rules in any later action or proceedings between the same parties or their
affiliates.  (Exh. 1 at §3.7.)
The proposed Settlement Agreement represents an
outstanding resolution for Alondra and Centerville in the face of a vigorously
contested appeal.  If the Court of Appeal
rules for Barth on any of his seven claims of error in his appeal, the possible
outcomes range from a vacatur of the punitive damages award to a reversal and
remand for a new trial to a reversal and entry of judgment for Defendants on
all claims for relief.  If the Court of
Appeal rules for Plaintiffs on their claim of error, the Court of Appeal could
award treble damages or remand the case for the same.  The guaranteed recovery by each participating
member of more than 125% of the compensatory damages claimed by Plaintiffs and
awarded by the Court is more than fair, reasonable, and adequate in view of the
risks of the pending appeal, the time and expense required to complete that
appeal and potentially retry the case, and the possibility of an outright
reversal or eventual judgment for Defendants that vindicates Defendants’
position and leaves Plaintiffs with no recovery at all.
Accordingly, the Court grants the requested final
approval of the Settlement Agreement and Release.
 
Conclusion
Defendants’ unopposed motion for final
approval of the Settlement Agreement and Release is granted. 
Moving Party to give notice.
 
Dated: 
November _____, 2024
                                                                             





  