 Case Number:  23CHCV03300    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  F51 Dept. F-51¿¿ 
Date: 9/24/24 
Case #23CHCV03300
 
LOS
ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH
VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT
F-51
 

SEPTEMBER 23,
2024
 

DEMURRER

Los Angeles Superior Court Case # 23CHCV03300

¿ 
Demurrer filed: 5/23/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Gardena Plywood, Inc., dba
Van Nuys Plywood and Lumber; James Leo Luthman, individually and as Trustee of
the James L. Luthman Declaration of Trust; and Katie J. Holland (collectively,
“Defendants”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs
DG Lumber Group, Inc. and Tzvika Diner (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
NOTICE: OK¿ 
¿ 
RELIEF REQUESTED: Defendants
demur to Plaintiffs’ entire complaint.
¿ 
TENTATIVE RULING: The demurrer is overruled.
Defendants to file and serve their answer to Plaintiffs’ complaint within 30
days.
 
BACKGROUND¿ 
 
This is a contractual fraud action
in which Plaintiffs allege that they agreed to purchase Defendants’ entire
business, including “physical assets, equipment inventory and a Lease, as well
as the goodwill, customers, vendors, suppliers and employees of Defendants.”
(Compl. ¶ 11.) The amended sale agreement between the parties contained, inter
alia, an agreement for Defendants not to compete with Plaintiffs for a period
of 18 months after 1/6/22. (Id. at ¶ 17.) Plaintiffs allege that
defendant Luthman secretly took and fulfilled orders from customers in
violation of the noncompete provision. (Id. at ¶ 21.) Plaintiffs further
allege that on 2/7/22, defendant Luthman threatened plaintiff Diner with a
rifle in the cashier room of the business. (Id. at ¶ 26.) Plaintiffs
further allege that Defendants frustrated the purposes of the sale agreement
and continued to operate their business and maintain their corporate existence
in violation of the agreement. (Id. at ¶¶ 27–30.)
 
On 10/30/23, Plaintiffs filed their
complaint, alleging against Defendants the following causes of action: (1) Fraud
and Deceit; (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; (3) Breach of Written Contract; (4) Intentional
Interference with Prospective Economic Advantage; (5) Violation of Racketeering
Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO); (6) Trespass to Realty; (7) Defamation
- Slander Per Se; (8) Unfair Competition; (9) Breach of Implied Covenant of
Good Faith & Fair Dealing; (10) Economic Duress; (11) Money Had and
Received; (12) Unjust Enrichment; (13) Accounting and Appointment of Receiver;
(14) Breach of Implied Terms of Written Lease; (15) Receiving Stolen Property;
(16) Setoff; (17) Constructive Trust; (18) Assault; (19) Intentional Infliction
of Emotional Distress; (20) False Imprisonment; and (21) Declaratory Relief.
 
On 2/8/24, Defendants filed the
instant demurrer. On 9/11/24, Plaintiffs filed their opposition. On 9/17/24, Defendants
filed their reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
As a general matter, a party may respond to a pleading
against it by demurrer on the basis of any single or combination of eight
enumerated grounds, including that “the pleading does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action” and is uncertain, meaning
“ambiguous and unintelligible.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subds. (e) and
(f).) In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or via proper judicial notice.¿(Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co.
(2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)
 
“A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence
or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Ibid.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)
 
Here, Defendants
demur to the entire complaint on the bases that it is uncertain and that Plaintiffs
fail¿to allege facts sufficient to state any cause of action therein.
 
1.      Meet-and-Confer
 
Before filing its demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a).) The demurring party must file and
serve a meet and confer declaration stating either: “(A) The means by which the
demurring party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject
to demurrer, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the
objections raised in the demurrer;” or “(B) That the party who filed the
pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer request
of the demurring party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.” (Id.
at subd. (a)(3).)
 
Here, Defendants’ counsel declares that on 1/8/24, he sent
Plaintiffs’ counsel a meet and confer letter discussing the issues raised in
the instant demurrer, but received no response. (Decl. of Gerard N. Silver.)
Accordingly, the Court finds that counsel has satisfied the preliminary meet
and confer requirements set forth my Code of Civil Procedure section 430.31.
//
//
//
2.     
Fraud
 
Plaintiffs’
first cause of action alleges Fraud and Deceit against Defendants. “One who
willfully deceives another with intent to induce him to alter his position to
his injury or risk, is liable for any damage which he thereby suffers.” (Civ.
Code § 1709.) “The elements of promissory fraud (i.e., of fraud or deceit based
on a promise made without any intention of performing it) are: (1) a promise
made regarding a material fact without any intention of performing it; (2) the
existence of the intent not to perform at the time the promise was made; (3)
intent to deceive or induce the promisee to enter into a transaction; (4)
reasonable reliance by the promisee; (5) nonperformance by the party making the
promise; and (6) resulting damage to the promise.” (Behnke v. State Farm General Insurance Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th
1443, 1453, citation and quotation marks omitted.) Fairness requires that
allegations of fraud be pled “with particularity” so that the court can weed
out nonmeritorious actions before a defendant is required to answer. (Small
v. Fritz Companies, Inc. (2003) 30 Cal.4th 167, 184.) The particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts that “show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Lazar v. Superior
Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs allege that “at the time Defendants, and each of them, entered into
the Agreement, they never intended to comply with their obligations to assist
Plaintiff in the transition of the business,” or “to refrain from competing
with Plaintiff under the terms of the non-compete provisions of the Agreement.”
(Compl. ¶¶ 32–33.) Plaintiffs further allege that they justifiably relied on
Defendants’ false promises, and that Defendants’ nonperformance caused
Plaintiffs “general damages including loss of reputation and good will, in a
certain but presently unascertained sum,” and “special damages consisting of
out-of-pocket expenses associated with the discovery and repair of the damaged
caused to Plaintiff as a result of said Defendants aforesaid fraudulent and
deceitful conduct.” (Id. at ¶¶ 34–38.)
 
Defendants
argue that “Plaintiffs cannot overcome that the alleged misrepresentations were
not material nor made to a specific person, but to some undisclosed party
(hearsay) from September 1, 2021 through January 6, 2022.” (Dem. 6:13–15.)
Defendants further argue that defendants Holland and VNPL “are not a proper
parties to be charged in the contracts, transactions, and incidents alleged by
plaintiffs, as said defendants did not contract nor conduct business with
plaintiffs, as reflected in the exhibits to the complaint.” (Id. at 5:16–18.)
 
Upon a
review of Plaintiffs’ allegations in their complaint, the Court finds that the
factual allegations sufficiently plead a cause of action for fraud and deceit,
specifically promissory fraud, against Defendants. As to defendants Holland and
VNPL, Plaintiffs argue in opposition that “it is alleged that Gardena Plywood,
Inc. and Van Nuys Plywood & Lumber are simply the alter egos of Defendants
Luthman and Holland.” (Pls.’ Opp. 4:4–5; Compl. ¶¶ 2–10.) “While Holland is not
a signatory to the agreement and amendments attached to the Complaint as
Exhibits 1 through 5, Gardena Plywood, Inc. and Van Nuys Plywood & Lumber
did execute the agreement and those companies are conduits through which
Holland conducts business, and with whom she comingles her personal assets.” (Pls.’
Opp. 4:6–9.) The Court agrees, and finds it sufficient that Plaintiffs have
alleged that each Defendant “were the agents, employees, joint venturers,
partners, shareholders, officers, directors, managers, co-conspirators, joint
tort-feasors and alter egos of each of the other Defendants.” (Compl. ¶ 7.)
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action for Fraud and Deceit. Accordingly, the demurrer is
overruled as to Plaintiffs’ first cause of action.
 
3.     
Breach of Fiduciary Duty
 
Plaintiffs’
second cause of action alleges against all Defendants Breach of Fiduciary Duty.
“The elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty are the
existence of a fiduciary relationship, breach of fiduciary duty, and damages.”
(Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 820.)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs allege that “as private consultants for Plaintiff commencing January
6, 2022 and continuing for at least one year thereafter, Defendants Luthman and
Holland, acting on their own behalf, on behalf of each other and on behalf of
GPI owed fiduciary duties to Plaintiff including the duty of good faith,
fairness and loyalty in regard to all of their dealings with Plaintiff after
January 6, 2022.” (Compl. ¶ 43.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendants “breached
their fiduciary duties owed to Plaintiff by failing and refusing to assist
Plaintiff in the transition of the Business, by directly competing with the
Business of Plaintiff through June 30, 2023 and by slandering Plaintiff and
Plaintiffs Principals on multiple occasions to Plaintiffs customers, suppliers,
vendors and employees, all of as heretofore alleged.” (Id. at ¶ 44.) “As
a direct and proximate result of the aforesaid breaches of fiduciary duties by
Defendants, and each of them, as heretofore alleged, Plaintiff has been damaged
in a certain, but presently unascertained sum in an amount according to proof
at time of Trial.” (Id. at ¶ 45.)
 
Defendants
argue that “plaintiffs do not plead any act, conduct or performance of any
defendant, let alone ‘all defendants,’ that creates or rises to a fiduciary
duty to plaintiffs, such as attorney/client principal/agent or
trustee/beneficiary.” (Dem. 7:23–25.) Plaintiffs argue in opposition that “the
fiduciary duty of Holland and Luthman as private consultants to Plaintiff is
established in paragraphs 43 and 44 of the Complaint.” (Pls.’ Opp. 4:18–19.)
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action for Breach of Fiduciary Duty. Accordingly, the
demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiffs’ second cause of action.
 
4.     
Breach of Contract
 
Plaintiffs’
third cause of action alleges against Defendants Breach of Written Contract. To
state a cause of action for breach of contract, a plaintiff must be able to
establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting
damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, 51 Cal.4th at 821.) A
written contract may be pleaded either verbatim or generally “according to its
legal intendment and effect.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG
Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198–199.)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs allege that on 9/1/21, they entered into a written sale agreement
for the purchase of Defendant’s entire business. (Compl. ¶ 11.) On 9/8/21,
Plaintiffs filed LASC Case No. 21CHCV00693 against Defendants for fraud and
breach of the 9/1/21 sale agreement, which the parties dismissed pursuant to a
settlement agreement dated 1/6/22. (Id. at ¶¶ 12–13.) On 1/6/22, the
parties also entered into an Asset Bill of Sale agreement. (Id. at ¶
14.) On 2/4/22, the parties entered into an Amendment to Bulk Sale Agreement
and Settlement Agreement. (Id. at ¶ 15.) “The aforesaid Bulk Sale
Agreement, the aforesaid Settlement Agreement, aforesaid Asset Bill of Sale and
the aforesaid Amendment to Bulk Sale Agreement and Settlement Agreement are
hereinafter collectively referred to as ‘the Agreement.’” (Ibid.)
Plaintiffs attach each of the aforementioned written agreements as Exhibits, 1,
3, 4, and 5 to the Complaint, respectively.
 
Plaintiffs
further allege that “from and after the effective date of the Agreement,
January 6, 2022 and continuing through the present, Defendants, and each of
them, breached the Agreement by violating the noncompete provisions, by
violating the consultant work provisions, by failing and refusing to terminate
the business of GPI and VNPL and dissolve the entities.” (Id. at ¶ 49.)
Plaintiffs further allege that they have “performed all covenants, conditions
and promises required of Plaintiff under the Agreement except for those
obligations for which performance has been excused or waived by Defendants, and
each of them.” (Id. at ¶ 50.)
 
Defendants
argue on demurrer that “plaintiffs improperly combine and confuse six (6)
separate, different and distinct contracts as ‘the Agreement.’” (Dem. 8:3–5.)
Defendants further argue that “Plaintiffs again falsely allege that all
defendants breached the co-called Agreement, while a quick review of the six
(6) attached contracts are not between the plaintiffs and all of the named
defendants, who are not parties nor signatories to said contracts called ‘the
Agreement.’” (Id. at 8:8–11.)
 
Plaintiffs
argue in opposition that they “have successfully alleged that not only were
Holland and Luthman de facto partners in Van Nuys Plywood & Lumber, but
were and are the alter egos of Gardena Plywood, Inc. which does business as Van
Nuys Plywood & Lumber. Taking the allegations as true, and reading
paragraphs 49 and 50 in conjunction with the introductory paragraphs of the
Complaint, the pleading clearly states a valid cause of action for breach of
written contract.” (Pls.’ Opp. 4:24–5:1.) The Court agrees.
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action for Breach of Written Contract. Accordingly, the
demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiffs’ third cause of action.
 
5.     
Intentional Interference with Prospective
Economic Advantage
 
Plaintiffs’
fourth cause of action alleges against Defendants Intentional Interference with
Prospective Economic Advantage. The elements of a claim for intentional
interference with prospective economic advantage include “(1) an economic
relationship between the plaintiff and some third party, with the probability
of future economic benefit to the plaintiff; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of
the relationship; (3) intentional or negligent acts on the part of the
defendant designed to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the
relationship; and (5) economic harm to the plaintiff proximately caused by the
acts of the defendant.” (Crown Imports, LLC v. Superior Court (2014) 223
Cal.App.4th 1395, 1404.)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants “were and now are aware of the prospective
economic relationships between Plaintiff and its existing and prospective
clients and customers, vendors, supplies and employees,” yet “engaged in the
aforesaid acts of unfair competition, unfair business practices, fraud, deceit,
self-dealing, interference with Plaintiff's business relationships, trade
defamation and general bad faith business dealing with Plaintiff, with the sole
and specific intent and express purpose of disrupting the economic relations
between Plaintiff and its customers, suppliers, vendors and employees.” (Compl.
¶¶ 54–55.)
 
Defendants
argue that “the alleged contract is limited to specific hard assets, and does
not provide for the claims of plaintiffs for interference with a prospective
economic advantage, and therefore it is factually insufficient and uncertain.
Plaintiffs have not and cannot show existing contracts with plaintiffs for
defendants’ alleged interference.” (Dem. 8:17–20.)
 
However, as
Plaintiffs observe in opposition, “the fourth cause of action for intentional
interference clearly alleges in paragraphs 54 and 55 that the conduct of the
Defendant was undertaken for the purpose of disrupting the economic relations
between Plaintiff and its customers, suppliers, vendors and employees.
Plaintiff specifically alleges that it was Defendants’ interference with
Plaintiff’s prospective economic advantage, not that it interfered with
Plaintiff’s existing contracts.” (Pls.’ Opp. 5:6–10.)
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action for Intentional Interference with Prospective Economic
Advantage. Accordingly, the demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiffs’ fourth
cause of action.
 
6.     
Violation of Racketeering Influenced and
Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO)
 
Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action
alleges Violation of Racketeering Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (“RICO”)
against Defendants. A party alleging a civil RICO violation must state “that
the defendant caused injury to the plaintiff’s business or property by engaging
in a pattern of racketeering activity in connection with an enterprise which
affects interstate commerce.” (Gervase v.
Superior Court (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1218, 1232; see also Living Designs, Inc. v. E.I. Dupont de
Nemours and Co. (9th Cir. 2005) 431 F.3d 353, 361 [“The elements of a civil
RICO claim are as follows: (1) conduct (2) of an enterprise (3) through a
pattern (4) of racketeering activity (known as ‘predicate acts’) (5) causing
injury to the plaintiff’s business or property.].)
 
Here, Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants,
and each of them, received income or intended to invest the proceeds from such
income in the acquisition of an interest in, or the establishment or operation
of the enterprise formed by Defendants, and each of them, through which the
aforesaid racketeering activities were conducted, through interstate commerce,
including emails, telephones, and text messages.” (Compl. ¶ 62.)
 
Defendants argue that “all the
defendants’ alleged conduct does not give rise to any violation or liability
under RICO.” (Dem. 9:4–5.) Plaintiffs argue in opposition that “the details of
the cause of action are specifically stated in paragraphs 61 and 62, and
accepting all of the allegations as true, Luthman and Holland were clearly
involved in the interference with commerce and racketeering described in the
Complaint.” (Pls.’ Opp. 5:13–16.) The Court agrees.
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action for Violation of Racketeering Influenced and
Corrupt Organizations Act. Accordingly, the demurrer is overruled as to
Plaintiffs’ fifth cause of action.
 
7.     
Trespass to Realty
 
Plaintiffs’
sixth cause of action alleges Trespass to Realty against Defendants. To set
forth a cause of action for trespass, a plaintiff must allege (1) plaintiff’s
lawful possession or right to possession of real property; (2) defendant’s
wrongful, intentional, reckless, or negligent act of trespass on the property;
(3) plaintiff did not give permission for the entry or scope of permission was
exceeded; and (4) damage to plaintiff caused by the trespass. (Ralphs
Grocery Co. v. Victory Consultants, Inc. (2017) 17 Cal.App.5th 245, 262.)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs allege that “commencing January 6, 2022 and continuing thereafter
through the present, Plaintiff had and continues of [sic] have the sole and
exclusive right to possession of the Property. Defendants, and each of them,
had no right to store boxes, vehicles or equipment at the premises at any time
without the authorization, permission or consent of Plaintiff.” (Compl. ¶ 67.)
However, “from January 6, 2022 through the present, Defendants, and each of
them, did so store boxes, vehicles and equipment at the premises without the
authorization, permission or consent of Plaintiff and despite Plaintiff’s prior
demands, verbally and in writing, that Defendants, and each of them, vacate the
Property as to all such vehicles, boxes and equipment, Defendants, and each of
them, have failed and refused and continue to fail and refuse to do so.” (Ibid.)
 
Defendants
argue that “defendants as the current lessor and owner cannot be subject to
trespass, especially when defendants are allegedly required to consult with
plaintiffs.” (Dem. 9:11–13.) Plaintiffs argue in opposition that “the
allegations quite clearly describe that the trespass occurred as of January 6,
2022 when they continued to store vehicles, boxes and other items on the
premises after being told that such items must be removed.” (Pls.’ Opp. 5:20–22,
citing Compl. ¶ 67.)
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action for Trespass to Realty. Accordingly, the demurrer
is overruled as to Plaintiffs’ sixth cause of action.
 
8.     
Defamation
 
Plaintiffs’
seventh cause of action alleges Defamation – Slander Per Se against Defendants.
The elements of a cause of action for slander, or oral defamation are: “(1) a
publication that is (2) false, (3) defamatory, (4) unprivileged, and (5) has a
natural tendency to injure or causes special damage. The defamatory statement
must specifically refer to, or be of and concerning, the plaintiff.” (John
Doe 2 v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 1300, 1312.)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs allege that from 1/6/22 to present, Defendants “stated to various
individuals including unnamed customers of Plaintiff, Vincent Onate, Dima
Nesterov and other whose identities are presently unknown to Plaintiff, but who
include customers, suppliers, vendors and employees of Plaintiff, that
Plaintiff and Plaintiffs Principals ‘are crooks.’” (Compl, ¶ 71.) The alleged
statements “tend to injure Plaintiff in its Business by imputing to Plaintiff
dishonesty, untrustworthiness, lack of integrity, criminal activity and lack of
professionalism.” (Id. at ¶ 73.) Plaintiffs further allege that the
statements “were false because Plaintiff has not acted dishonestly,
untrustworthy, with lack of integrity or in violation of criminal law in regard
to any of its business dealings with any customer, supplier, vendor or employee
of Plaintiff, at any time.” (Id. at ¶ 74.)
 
On
demurrer, Defendants appear to assert such defenses as free speech and
anti-SLAPP, but the Court notes that to the extent that Defendants intend to
argue that their statements are protected speech, Defendants have not filed an
anti-SLAPP motion to strike. (Dem. 9:20–22.) Based on the foregoing, the Court
finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause of
action for Defamation – Slander Per Se. Accordingly, the demurrer is overruled
as to Plaintiffs’ seventh cause of action.
 
9.     
Unfair Competition
 
Plaintiffs’
eighth cause of action alleges Unfair Competition against Defendants in
violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200 et seq. (the “UCL”). To
succeed on a claim for unfair business practices in violation of the UCL, a plaintiff
must establish that the defendant was engaged in an “unlawful, unfair or
fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading
advertising” and certain specific acts. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) “In
essence, an action based on Business and Professions Code section 17200 to
redress an unlawful business practice ‘borrows’ violations of other laws and
treats these violations, when committed pursuant to business activity, as
unlawful practices independently actionable under section 17200 et seq. and
subject to the distinct remedies provided thereunder.” (People ex rel. Bill
Lockyer v. Fremont Life Ins. Co. (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 508, 515.) A
plaintiff alleging an “unfair” business practice under the UCL must show that
the defendant's conduct is “tethered to an underlying constitutional, statutory
or regulatory provision, or that it threatens an incipient violation of an
antitrust law, or violates the policy or spirit of an antitrust law.” (Graham
v. Bank of America, N.A. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 613.) “‘Fraudulent,’
as used in the statute, does not refer to the common law tort of fraud but only
requires a showing members of the public ‘are likely to be deceived.’” (Olsen
v. Breeze, Inc. (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 608, 618.)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants violated the UCL “by engaging in the
aforesaid scheme to usurp Plaintiffs corporate opportunities, to unfairly
compete with Plaintiff, by attempting to divert customers away from Plaintiff,
by slandering Plaintiff and Plaintiffs Principals and by undertaking fraudulent
means to undermine Plaintiffs business as heretofore alleged.” (Compl. ¶ 80.)
 
Defendants
argue that “Plaintiffs come without any factual basis that is specific and
sufficient to establish any unfair competition by defendants, other than mere
conclusions and accusations.” (Dem. 10:3–4.) The Court finds that this argument
lacks merit, as Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged the unlawful, unfair, and
fraudulent conduct in which Defendants engaged. The purpose of a complaint is
to set forth accusations of Defendants’ conduct.
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action for Unfair Competition in violation of the UCL.
Accordingly, the demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiffs’ eighth cause of
action.
 
10.  Breach
of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
Plaintiffs’
ninth cause of action alleges against Defendants a Breach of the Implied Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing. Every contract contains an implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing that neither party will do anything to interfere
with the other party’s right to receive the benefits of the agreement. (Howard
v. American Nat'l Fire Ins. Co. (2010) 187 Cal.App.4th 498, 528.) The
precise nature and extent of the duty depends on the nature and purpose of the
underlying contract and the parties’ legitimate expectations arising from the
contract. (Ibid.) “A breach of the implied covenant of good faith is a
breach of the contract … and breach of a specific provision of the contract is
not ... necessary to a claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith
and fair dealing.” (Thrifty Payless, Inc. v. The Americana at Brand, LLC
(2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1230, 1244.)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs allege that “the unfair competition employed by Defendants as
heretofore alleged, the unlawful competing with Plaintiff by Defendants as
heretofore alleged, the fraudulent and deceitful behavior on the part
Defendants as heretofore alleged, the slander per se engaged in by Defendants
as against Plaintiff and Plaintiffs Principals as heretofore alleged, the
racketeering and the intentional interference by Defendants with Plaintiffs
perspective economic advantage all constitute a breach of Defendants’ implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing which arose from the Agreement and the
Business transaction referred to therein.” (Compl. ¶ 85.)
 
Defendants
argue that “this purported cause of action is improper and does not exist as an
independent cause of action, but may only be alleged as a part and portion of a
breach of contract cause of action.” (Dem. 10:14–15.) The Court notes that
Defendants do not cite to any legal authority to support their position. Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action for a Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith
and Fair Dealing. Accordingly, the demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiffs’
ninth cause of action.
 
11.  Economic
Duress
 
Plaintiffs’
tenth cause of action alleges Economic Duress against Defendants. “The doctrine
of ‘economic duress’ can apply when one party has done a wrongful act which is
sufficiently coercive to cause a reasonably prudent person, faced with no
reasonable alternative, to agree to an unfavorable contract.” (CrossTalk
Productions, Inc. v. Jacobson (1998) 65 Cal.App.4th 631, 644.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs
allege that “through the diversion of Plaintiff’s business it is the intention
and goal of Defendants, and each of them, to cripple Plaintiff financially so
that it cannot pursue its legal rights as against said Defendants, and each of
them, for all of the violations thereof by Defendants, and each of them, as
heretofore alleged.” (Compl. ¶ 91.)
 
Defendants
argue that “plaintiffs are willfully attempting to conceal that other than GPI
and Trust, certain defendants are not proper or lawful parties to any
agreement, contract or transaction with plaintiffs, and therefore cannot claim
economic duress or the defense of set off.” (Dem. 10:23–26.) The Court notes
its above finding that Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged that each of the
Defendants is an alter ago of one another. Moreover, as Plaintiffs observe,
they have sufficiently alleged that Defendants’ conduct was intended “to cause
Plaintiffs such economic duress that they could not afford purchase the real
estate or make their rental payments to Defendants, thus allowing Defendants to
repossess their business assets.” (Pls.’ Opp. 6:19–21.)
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action for Economic Duress. Accordingly, the demurrer is
overruled as to Plaintiffs’ tenth cause of action.
 
12.  Money
Had and Received
 
Plaintiffs’
eleventh cause of action alleges Money Had and Received against Defendants. The
required elements of a common count claim are “(1) the statement of
indebtedness in a certain sum, (2) the consideration, i.e., goods sold, work
done, etc., and (3) nonpayment. A cause of action for money had and received is
stated if it is alleged the defendant is indebted to the plaintiff in a certain
sum for money had and received by the defendant for the use of the plaintiff.”
(Farmers Insurance Exchange v. Zerin (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 445, 460 [citations
and quotations omitted].)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs allege that “from in or about February, 2022 and continuing through
the present, Defendants, and each of them, became indebted to Plaintiff for
money had and received by said Defendants at their instance and request from
various customers and clients of Plaintiff in the form of sales proceeds and
profits in a sum which Plaintiff is informed and believes and therefore alleges
exceeds $1,000,000.00.” (Compl. ¶ 96.) “Notwithstanding demand therefor,
Defendants, and each of them, have failed and refused and continue to fail and
refuse to pay Plaintiff the aforesaid sums.” (Id. at ¶ 97.)
 
Defendants
argue that “Plaintiffs’ allegations do not constitute sufficient facts for the
defendants or the Court to determine what money?, what amount?, and for what
reason and how was it received by all defendants?” (Dem. 11:3–5.) The Court
finds that Defendants’ arguments impose a higher pleading standard that what is
required for a cause of action for common counts, or money had and received,
with no supporting legal authority.
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action for Money Had and Received. Accordingly, the
demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiffs’ eleventh cause of action.
 
13.  Unjust
Enrichment
 
Plaintiffs’
twelfth cause of action alleges Unjust Enrichment against Defendants. “The
elements for a claim of unjust enrichment are receipt of a benefit and unjust
retention of the benefit at the expense of another. The theory of unjust
enrichment requires one who acquires a benefit which may not justly be
retained, to return either the thing or its equivalent to the aggrieved party
so as not to be unjustly enriched.” (Lyles v. Sangadeo-Patel (2014) 225
Cal.App.4th 759, 769 [quotations and citations omitted.])
 
Here,
Plaintiffs allege that “Defendants, and each of them, jointly and severally,
through their wrongful conduct as described hereinabove, have reaped
substantial profits from the illicit and unlawful conversion and diversion of
Plaintiff's Business, the interference with Plaintiff’s Business relationships
and the unlawful competing with Plaintiff, and in so doing has caused Plaintiff
to suffer substantial monetary losses, all of which damages and costs were not
only foreseeable to said Defendants, and each of them, but were intended
consequences of the collective actions of said Defendants as heretofore
alleged.” (Compl. ¶ 100.) “Based on the foregoing allegations, in equity and in
good conscious, it would be unconscionable and otherwise unjust for Defendants,
and each of them, to be enriched at the expense of Plaintiff.” (Id. at ¶
101.)
 
Defendants,
incorrectly and without supporting legal authority, assert that “there is no
recognized separate and distinct cause of action for unjust enrichment.” (Dem. 11:11.)
Based on the foregoing factual allegations, the Court finds that Plaintiffs
have alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for Unjust
Enrichment. Accordingly, the demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiffs’ twelfth
cause of action.
 
14.  Accounting
and Appointment of Receiver; Constructive Trust
 
Plaintiffs’ thirteenth cause of
action against Defendants alleges Accounting and Appointment of Receiver, and
Plaintiffs’ seventeenth cause of action alleges Constructive Trust against
Defendants. “A cause of action for an accounting requires a showing that a
relationship exists between the plaintiff and defendant that requires an
accounting, and that some balance is due the plaintiff that can only be
ascertained by an accounting. An action for accounting is not available where
the plaintiff alleges the right to recover a sum certain or a sum that can be
made certain by calculation.” (Teselle v.
McLoughlin (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 179.)
 
“One who
gains a thing by fraud, accident, mistake, undue influence, the violation of a
trust, or other wrongful act, is, unless he or she has some other and better
right thereto, an involuntary trustee of the thing gained, for the benefit of
the person who would otherwise have had it.” (Civ. Code § 2224.)  “The case law explains that in order to
create a constructive trust as defined in section 2224, three conditions must
be satisfied: the existence of a res (property or some interest in the
property); the plaintiff’s right to that res; and the defendant’s acquisition
of the res by some wrongful act.” (Optional Capital, Inc. v. DAS Corp.
(2014) 222 Cal.App.4th 1388, 1402.)
 
Here, “Plaintiff
has demanded an accounting by Defendants as to all business conducted by
Defendants between January 6, 2022 and July 5, 2023 including an accounting as
to all income, profits, shareholder distributions and all other aspects of the
business conducted by Defendants, and each of them, during the aforesaid
period.” (Compl. ¶ 105.) “The accounting sought by Plaintiff hereunder is
requested by Plaintiff to include all documents relating to all business
conducted by Defendants during the aforesaid period, including business
contracts, marketing materials, invoices, purchase orders, bank deposits, bank
withdrawals, computer records and data, emails and all other documentation
which reflects the conduct of business by Defendants, and each of them, as
heretofore alleged.” (Id. at ¶ 106.) “Plaintiff seeks an Order that a
Receiver take possession of the books and records, bank accounts and computers
of GPI and VNPL, and all those items as they relate to Luthman and Holland
individually to the extent utilized in conducting business in violation of the
Agreement from January 6, 2022 through the present, so that such may be
supervised, operated and serviced by the Receiver in a lawful and profitable
manner until GPI and VNPL can be liquidated, dissolved and terminated and the
profits from their operation properly disbursed to Plaintiff.” (Id. at ¶
109.)
 
Plaintiffs
further allege that a constructive trust is necessary because “Defendants, and
each of them, took possession of money to which Plaintiff is solely and
exclusively entitled. Defendants and each of them, converted the aforesaid
profits and money with full knowledge of Plaintiff’s sole and exclusive right
of ownership and possession of same.” (Id. at ¶ 129.)
 
Defendants
maintain that “there is no factual basis for either an accounting, receiver or
a constructive trust.” (Dem. 11:22–23.) The Court disagrees. Based on the
foregoing factual allegations, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged
facts sufficient to constitute causes of action for Accounting and Appointment
of Receiver, and Constructive Trust. Accordingly, the demurrer is overruled as
to Plaintiffs’ thirteenth and seventeenth causes of action.
 
15.  Breach
of Implied Terms of Written Lease
 
Plaintiffs’
fourteenth cause of action alleges Breach of Implied Terms of Lease against
Defendants. Here, Plaintiffs allege that “implied in the terms of the Lease are
the obligation of Defendants, and each of them, to remove all of their personal
property from the Property as of January 6, 2022.” (Compl. ¶ 112.) “Despite Plaintiff’s
demand that such property be removed from the Property, Defendants have failed
and refused and continue to fail and refuse to do so. Maintaining their
personal property on the Property after January 6, 2022 constitutes a breach of
the implied terms of the Lease.” (Ibid.)
 
Defendants
argue that “the written lease … specifically limits liability of defendants …
and allows no prior or other agreements … and cannot be amended except in
writing as a whole and integrated agreement, not subject to parol and/or
implied terms.” (Dem. 12:3–6, citing Ex. 6 to Compl., ¶¶ 20, 22.) Plaintiffs
argue in opposition that “any factual dispute regarding the agreements are just
that and should not be the subject of a demurrer.” (Pls.’ Opp. 7:15–16.)
 
The Court
agrees, and finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action for Breach of Implied Terms of Lease. Accordingly, the demurrer
is overruled as to Plaintiffs’ fourteenth cause of action.
 
16.  Receiving
Stolen Property
 
Plaintiffs’
fifteenth cause of action alleges Receiving Stolen Property against Defendants,
in violation of Penal Code section 496. Under the statute, any person who has
been injured by the defendant’s receiving or buying property “that has been
obtained in any manner constituting theft” “may bring an action for three times
the amount of actual damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff, costs of
suit, and reasonable attorney’s fees.” (Pen. Code § 496, subds. (a), (c).)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants violated Penal Code section 496 “by removing
from the Property all of the books and records, computers and customer files
sold to Plaintiff by Defendants when Plaintiff purchased the Business as of
January 6, 2022. All sales of merchandise by Defendants, and each of them, from
and after January 6, 2022 secretly undertaken by Defendants, and each of them,
as heretofore alleged, and the profits therefrom, resulted in Defendants' theft
of those profits, in a sum to be determined according to proof.” (Compl. ¶
118.)
 
Defendants
argue that “this cannot be the basis for a civil cause of action, but is an
alleged violation of a criminal statue for a misdemeanor to be prosecuted by
the Los Angeles county District Attorney and punishable by fine and/or jail
time.” (Dem. 12:11–13.) The Court finds that Defendants’ argument contradicts
the express terms of the statute, which allows for a civil cause of action for
receipt of stolen property.
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action for Receiving Stolen Property. Accordingly, the
demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiffs’ fifteenth cause of action.
 
17.  Assault;
False Imprisonment
 
Plaintiffs’
eighteenth and twentieth causes of action respectively allege Assault and False
Imprisonment against Defendants. “The essential elements of a cause of action
for assault are: (1) defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or offensive
contact, or threatened to touch plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2)
plaintiff reasonably believed [he or] she was about to be touched in a harmful
or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to plaintiff that defendant was
about to carry out the threat; (3) plaintiff did not consent to defendant’s
conduct; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant’s conduct was a
substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm.” (So v. Shin (2013) 212
Cal.App.4th 652, 668-669.) “The elements of a tortious claim of false
imprisonment are: (1) the nonconsensual, intentional confinement of a person,
(2) without lawful privilege, and (3) for an appreciable period of time,
however brief.” (Lyons v. Fire Insurance Exchange (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th
880, 888.)
 
Here,
plaintiff Diner alleges that “on or about February 7, 2022, Defendant GPI and
VNPL through the actions of Defendant Luthman as heretofore, threatened and
assaulted Plaintiff Tzvika Diner through the use and brandishing of a firearm
in the form of a shotgun, then and there threatening to shoot and kill Plaintiff
Tzvika Diner, and blocking his escape from the room in which such occurrence
took place.” (Compl. ¶ 134.) “Said Defendants, and each of them, assaulted
Plaintiff as heretofore alleged, with reckless disregard for Plaintiffs safety,
health, well-being and rights, with the intent to strike and kill Plaintiff.” (Id.
at ¶ 136.) Plaintiff further alleges that during this incident, “Plaintiff
attempted to exit the room in which said Defendants were engaged in such
conduct against said Plaintiff. At all times herein mentioned, Defendant
Luthman was standing between Plaintiff Tzvika Diner and the doorway exit to the
room where they were standing at the time of the assault. Plaintiff attempted
to exit the room to avoid being killed but could not do so because Defendant
Luthman blocked him and prevented him from exiting.” (Id. at ¶ 151.)
 
Defendants
argue that the corporate defendants are not liable for the aforementioned
conduct because “the intentional torts of assault and false imprisonment are
personal acts and cannot be committed by corporations.” (Dem. 12:22–23.) The
Court notes that Defendants do not cite to any legal authority to support their
position. Furthermore, as Plaintiffs argue in opposition, “the entities are the
alter egos of Luthman and therefore are liable for his conduct. It is alleged
that the entities authorized and ratified his conduct.” (Pls.’ Opp. 7:26–28,
citing Compl. ¶¶ 7–8.)
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to
constitute causes of action for Assault and False Imprisonment. Accordingly,
the demurrer is overruled as to Plaintiffs’ eighteenth and twentieth causes of
action.
 
18.  Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
Plaintiffs’
nineteenth cause of action alleges against Defendants Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress. “The elements of a prima facie case for the tort of
intentional infliction of emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous
conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard
of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s
suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate
causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.
Conduct to be outrageous must be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that
usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207
Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.) “In order to avoid a demurrer, the plaintiff must
allege with ‘great[ ] specificity’ the acts which he or she believes are so
extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.” (Yau v. Santa Margarita Ford, Inc. (2014) 229 Cal.App.4th
144, 160–161.) A mere allegation that a plaintiff suffered severe emotional
distress, without facts indicating the nature or extent of any mental suffering
incurred as a result of the defendant’s alleged outrageous conduct, does not
state a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress. (Pitman
v. City of Oakland (1988) 197 Cal.App.3d 1037, 1047–1048.)
 
Here, plaintiff
Diner alleges that “Defendant Luthman made the aforesaid death threats and
attempted to kill Plaintiff with the intention to cause Plaintiff great
anxiety, extreme fear and severe emotional distress. At all times herein
mentioned, Defendant Luthman knew at the time that he made the aforesaid death
threats and perpetrated the assault against Plaintiff that Plaintiff would
become and did become very frightened, fearful, anxious and emotionally
distraught.” (Compl. ¶ 144.) As a result, Plaintiff “has suffered humiliation,
mental anguish, fear, emotional and psychological distress, physical distress
and attendant injury, and was injured emotionally and psychologically, thereby
sustaining serious and permanent mental and psychological injuries, pain,
suffering and mental anguish, extreme nervousness and fear and extreme anxiety,
and is certain in the future to sustain disabling, serious and permanent
suffering and mental anguish.” (Id. at ¶ 146.)
 
Defendants
argue that “the allegations of the complaint are uncertain as to the
defendants, and each of them.” (Dem. 13:4.) Again, and as Plaintiffs observe, “Defendant
cites no facts or law in support of their claim that this cause of action is
insufficient.” (Pls.’ Opp. 8:7–8.) Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that
Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action for
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress. Accordingly, the demurrer is overruled
as to Plaintiffs’ nineteenth cause of action.
 
19.  Declaratory
Relief
 
Plaintiffs’
twenty-first cause of action alleges Declaratory Relief against Defendants. “To
qualify for declaratory relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action
presented two essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief,
and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the
party’s rights or obligations.” (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC
(2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909.)
 
Here,
Plaintiffs allege that “an actual controversy has arisen and now exists between
Plaintiff and Defendants, and each of them, regarding the status of Defendants
as successors-in-interest and alter egos, and the relationship between
Plaintiff and Defendants, and of them, given rise to fiduciary duties owed to
Plaintiff by said Defendants, Defendants fraudulent conduct, Defendants’
interference with Plaintiffs prospective economic advantage, Defendants’
trespass to realty, Defendants’ RICO violations, Defendants’ receipt of stolen
property, Defendants defamation, unfair competition and implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing, as well as the relationship of Defendant Holland
to the other Defendants and her responsibility for their conduct.” (Compl. ¶
157.)
 
Defendants
argue that “as reflected in all arguments to each cause of action, both
plaintiffs and defendants are entitled to and seek declaratory relief as to the
acts, conduct, rights, duties of the parties, despite plaintiffs’ defective and
flawed arguments.” (Dem. 13:9–11.) The Court notes that Defendants’ argument
appears to concede that Plaintiffs’ twenty-first cause of action is
meritorious.
 
Based on
the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have alleged facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action for Declaratory Relief. Accordingly, the demurrer
is overruled as to Plaintiffs’ twenty-first cause of action.
//
//
//
//
20.  Misjoinder
 
A party may
demur against a pleading if “there is a defect or misjoinder of parties.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.10, subd. (d).) Here, Defendants argue that there exists a
misjoinder of defendants Luthman, Holland, and VNPL because “plaintiffs cannot
and do not allege any factual transaction, contract, privity, duty, or
obligation to palitniffs [sic] due from said defendants.” (Dem. 13:19–20.) As
detailed above, the Court finds that Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged that
each Defendant “were the agents, employees, joint venturers, partners,
shareholders, officers, directors, managers, co-conspirators, joint
tort-feasors and alter egos of each of the other Defendants.” (Compl. ¶ 7.)
Accordingly, the demurrer is overruled on this ground.
 
21.  Uncertainty
 
Generally
speaking, “demurrers for uncertainty are disfavored and thus are strictly
construed because ambiguities can reasonably be clarified under modern rules of
discovery. Such demurrers are granted only if the pleading is so
incomprehensible that defendant cannot reasonably respond.” (Cal.Jur.3d § 137.)
“Where the complaint contains substantive factual allegations sufficiently
apprising defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet, a demurrer for
uncertainty should be overruled or plaintiff given leave to amend.” (Williams
v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (2011) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139 fn.2.)  
 
Here,
Defendants argue that the complaint is uncertain pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f) because “Plaintiffs improperly
interchange and flip-flop from plaintiff to plaintiffs without discrimination.
It is particularly unclear and uncertain in regard to any factual of lawful
relationship, duty, and/or obligation, if any exists between plaintiff(s) and
all defendants, and each of them.” (Dem. 14:9–12.)
 
Plaintiffs
argue in opposition that “it is very clear from each of the causes of action
alleged that all of the causes of action alleged on behalf of Plaintiff DG
Lumber Group, Inc. are those included in causes of action 1 through 17. Only
paragraphs 18, 19 and 20 makes specific reference to Plaintiff Tvika Diner
thereby clarifying any confusion which Defendants might have as to which
Plaintiff is asserting the various claims.” (Pls.’ Opp. 8:21–25.)
 
In applying
the stringent standard for demurrers filed on this ground, the Court finds that
the complaint is not “so incomprehensible” that Defendants cannot respond,
especially given the extensive analysis they have argued against the pleading.
Accordingly, the demurrer is overruled on this ground.
 
CONCLUSION¿ 
 
The demurrer is overruled. Defendants to file and serve
their answer to Plaintiffs’ complaint within 30 days.