  Case Number:  21SMCV00182    Hearing Date:   January 29, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January 29, 2024




CASE NUMBER


21SMCV00182




MOTION


Demurrer




MOVING PARTY


Defendant and Cross-Complainant 25 Beverly Park Circle
  PropCo LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Keyway Pride Limited LLC



 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises from a dispute over the rightful ownership of real
property located in Beverly Hills.  Defendant
and Cross-Complainant 25 Beverly Park Circle PropCo LLC (“PropCo”) contends
that in 2020, Plaintiff Keyway Pride Limited LLC (“Keyway”) sold the property
to Propco. Thereafter, Propco leased the property back to Keyway which then
subleased the property to Kimora Lee Simmons (“Simmons”) and Tim Leissner
(“Leissner”). According to Propco, neither Keyway, nor Simmons or Leissner,
paid rent on the lease, and the lease expired in November 2021. Simmons
continues to occupy the property per Propco. 
 
Keyway contends the 2020 sale to Propco and lease-back were
fraudulently executed by Leissner on behalf of Keyway, without any power or
authorization to act on Keyway’s behalf. Thus, Keyway contends the property was
transferred “without Keyway’s authorization or knowledge.”
 
PropCo now demurs to the second, third, and sixth causes of action
alleged in Keyway’s verified First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for civil
violation of Penal Code section 496, declaratory relief, and unfair
competition, respectively, on the basis that they fail to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 430.10, subdivision (e).
 
Keyway opposes the demurrer and PropCo replies.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                                   
i.           
Second Cause
of Action – Violation of Penal Code section 496
 
Penal Code section 496
prohibits buying or receiving “any property that has been stolen or that has
been obtained in any manner constituting theft or extortion, knowing the
property to be so stolen or obtained” or concealing, selling, withholding, or
aiding in concealing, selling, or withholding “any property from the owner,
knowing the property to be so stolen or obtained.”  (Pen. Code, § 496, subd. (a).)
 
Thus, “the elements required
to show a violation of section 496(a) are simply that (i) property was stolen
or obtained in a manner constituting theft, (ii) the defendant knew the
property was so stolen or obtained, and (iii) the defendant received or had
possession of the stolen property.”  (Switzer
v. Wood (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 116, 126.)
 
Moreover, “Any person who has
been injured by a violation of subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an action for
three times the amount of actual damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff,
costs of suit, and reasonable attorney's fees.” 
(Pen. Code § 496, subd. (c).)
 
PropCo contends that (1) Keyway’s
second cause of action sounds in fraud, and must therefore be pleaded with
particularity, which the FAC fails to do; and (2) Keyway’s allegations of
PropCo’s knowledge “on information and belief” is insufficient to state a cause
of action.  
 
Heightened Pleading
Requirements
 
In support of its contention
that Penal Code section 496 claims, sounding in fraud, must be pleaded with
particularity, PropCo cites to two unpublished federal district court cases.[1]  
 
Specifically, in Kanji v.
Bank of America, N.A., which PropCo contends is the most factually
analogous, the district court granted the defendant’s motion to dismiss the
penal code cause of action—which was premised on an underlying theft by false pretense
or representation—on the basis that the plaintiff failed to plead the
underlying false pretense with the requisite particularity.  (See Kanji v. Bank of America, N.A., (C.D.
Cal. Aug. 25, 2020) No. CV 20-3820-RSWL-SK, 2020 WL 8175548.)
 
Keyway counters that “causes
of actions arising from the mere receipt or sale of stolen property under
Section 496(a) do not require a heightened pleading standard.”  In support, Keyway cites to Citizens of
Humanity, LLC v. Costco Wholesale Corp. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1, 18, where
the appellate court affirmed the trial court’s sustaining of the demurrer as to
the fraud cause of action and overruling the demurrer as to the penal code
cause of action.  
 
As a threshold matter, PropCo
has not cited to any controlling California authority standing for the
proposition that causes of action brought pursuant to Penal Code section 496,
subdivision (c) must be pleaded with particularity.  The Court notes that unpublished federal
district court cases are not controlling, and also generally inapposite, as
they involve construction of the allegations against the Federal Rules of Civil
Procedure, particularly rules 12(b) and 9(b), as opposed to construction of
allegations against controlling California law.
 
But even if a heightened
pleading standard were required here, Keyway has met it.  
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  
 
With regard to Leissner’s
alleged underlying fraud, the FAC alleges:
 
22. On or about November 17, 2020, Leissner—who has
never been a member, officer, manager, or authorized signature of Keyway—purported
to enter into an Agreement of Purchase and Sale and Joint Escrow Instructions
(the PSA) on behalf of Keyway pursuant to which the Property was sold to
Propco. Also on or about November 17, 2020, Propco recorded a Grant Deed
purporting to transfer the Property to Propco. Also around that time, Leissner
purported to enter into a lease with Propco with respect to the Property (the
Lease).
 
[…]
 
25. Propco purportedly relied on two documents
for the proposition that Leissner had authority to act on behalf of Keyway.
Both documents were clear forgeries. First, Propco has produced a copy of the
Keyway Operating Agreement which it contends provides authority to Leissner to
act on behalf of Keyway. The Propco Version of the Keyway Operating Agreement
is identical to the original version of the Keyway Operating Agreement except
for alterations of two sections: Section 11 and Section 12.1.
 
26. In the original Keyway Operating Agreement,
Section 11 provides: Management. The Company shall be a manager-managed
limited liability company for purposes of the Act and shall be managed by a
manager (“Manager”). Midas
Commodities Agents Delaware LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, is
hereby appointed and shall serve as the Manager until such time as a
replacement is appointed with the consent of the Members holding a majority of
the Percentage Interests. The Manager shall have full authority to manage the
Company, including having the power to do any and all acts necessary,
convenient or incidental to or for the furtherance of the purposes described in
Section 2, including all powers, statutory or otherwise, possessed by members
of a limited liability company under the laws of the State of California.
Without limitation, the Manager may (a) cause the Company to incur debts,
liabilities and obligations incurred in connection with and in furtherance of
the Company's primary purpose set forth in Section 2 and (b) appoint one or
more individuals to serve as officers of the Company with such authority as is
set forth in Sections 12 and 13 of this Agreement. Any matter requiring the
approval of the Members, other than those matters requiring unanimous consent
by the members of the Company under the Act, may be decided by the Manager. Any
matter requiring the approval of the Members, other than those matters
requiring unanimous consent by the members of the Company under the Act, may be
decided by the Manager.
 
27. The language appointing Midas as the sole
manager of Keyway is highlighted above. However, the Propco Version of the
Keyway Operating Agreement was altered to add the highlighted language to
Section 11: Management. The Company shall be a manager-managed limited
liability company for purposes of the Act and shall be managed by a manager (“Manager'').
Midas Commodities Agents Delaware LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and its representatives, Mrs.
Kimora Lee Simmons-Leissner and Tim Leissner, is hereby appointed and
shall serve as the Manager until such time as a replacement is appointed with
the consent of the Members holding a majority of the Percentage Interests. The
Manager shall have full authority to manage the Company, including having the
power to do any and all acts necessary, convenient or incidental to or for the
furtherance of the purposes described in Section 2, including all powers,
statutory or otherwise, possessed by members of a limited liability company
under the laws of the State of California. Without limitation, the Manager may
( a) cause the Company to incur debts, liabilities and obligations incurred in
connection with and in furtherance of the Company's primary purpose set forth
in Section 2 and (b) appoint one or more individuals to serve as officers of
the Company with such authority as is set forth in Sections 12 and 13 of this
Agreement. Any matter requiring the approval of the Members, other than those
matters requiring unanimous consent by the members of the Company under the
Act, may be decided by the Manager. Any matter requiring the approval of the
Members, other than those matters requiring unanimous consent by the members of
the Company under the Act, may be decided by the Manager.
 
28. Section 12.1 of the original Keyway Operating
Agreement provides: “12.1 The officers of the Company shall be a President, a
Secretary, and a Treasurer. The Company may also have, at the discretion of the
Manager, a Chief Operating Officer, one or more Executive Vice Presidents or
Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Secretaries, one or more Assistant
Treasurers, and such other officers as maybe elected or appointed in accordance
with the provisions of Section 12.3.”
 
29. However, Section 12.1 of the Propco Version
of the Keyway Operating Agreement was altered to add the highlighted language: “12.1
The officers of the Company shall be a President, initially Mrs. Kimora Lee Simmons-Leissner, a
Secretary, and a Treasurer. The Company may also have, at the discretion of the
Manager, a Chief Operating Officer, one or more Executive Vice Presidents or
Vice Presidents, one or more Assistant Secretaries, one or more Assistant
Treasurers, and such other officers as may be elected or appointed in
accordance with the provisions of Section 12.3.”
 
30. As alleged above, the original Keyway
Operating Agreement, at all relevant times herein, has not been modified. As
such, the Propco Version of the Keyway Operating Agreement is an inauthentic,
false and altered version. Even a cursory examination of the Propco Version of
the Keyway Operating Agreement shows that it is an alteration. For example,
when Section 11 was altered to add and its representatives, Mrs. Kimora Lee
Simmons-Leissner and Tim Leissner, the person making the alteration left the
verb as is instead of changing it to are, thus rendering that language
ungrammatical. As such, Leissner had no authority to enter into a sale of the
Property on behalf of Keyway as a principal, member, officer or otherwise, and
neither a member nor a manager of Keyway ever authorized any sale.
 
31. Additionally, the purported Keyway Resolution
dated October 16, 2020 authorizing Leissner to enter into the sale transaction
(the Purported Resolution) was not authentic which was obvious on its face. […]
 
32. The purported signature of Kimora Lee
Simmons-Leissner is clearly an electronic signature applied to the document. In
fact, Ms. Simmons never signed this document, authorized her signature to be
used on this document, or had any knowledge of this document. It is clear from
the face of the document that the signature was an electronic and not a
personal ink-signed signature. Yet, Defendants never required that the document
be signed in front of a notary or made any effort to contact Ms. Simmons directly
to confirm that she had signed the document.
 
(FAC at ¶¶ 22, 25-32, emphasis in original.)  Thus, the FAC adequately alleges the who (Leissner),
what (the alterations to and misrepresentations on the documents described
above), when (“on or about November 17, 2020”), and to whom (PropCo and the
general public) the underlying misrepresentations were made.
 
Moreover, “[o]ne of the
purposes of the specificity requirement is notice to the defendant, to furnish
the defendant with certain definite charges which can be intelligently met.”  (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.)  As such, less specificity is required “when
it appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must
necessarily possess full information concerning the facts of the
controversy[.]”  (Ibid.)  “Even under the strict rules of common law
pleading, one of the canons was that less particularity is required when the
facts lie more in the knowledge of the opposite party.”  (Ibid.)
 
The details of PropCo’s
interactions with Leissner would obviously be more within PropCo’s knowledge
than Keyway’s.  And as Keyway points out,
PropCo clearly has the requisite details of Leissner’s alleged underlying
misrepresentations, as it has alleged its own claim for “Fraud-Intentional
Misrepresentation” against Mr. Leissner in its amended cross-complaint.
 
Allegations of PropCo’s
Knowledge “On Information and Belief”
 
PropCo next contends that Keyway
only alleges PropCo knew the Property was stolen “on information and belief”
which is insufficient to state a cause of action.  In support, PropCo cites to cases where trial
courts sustained demurrers where the allegations were made “on information and
belief” without any underlying facts to support that belief.  Keyway argues in opposition that pleading on
information and belief is sufficient to withstand demurrer.  
 
The Court agrees with
Keyway.  In Gomes v. Countrywide Home
Loans, Inc., upon which PropCo relies, the appellate court explains, “A plaintiff
may allege on information and belief any matters that are not within his
personal knowledge, if he has information leading him to believe that the
allegations are true, and thus a pleading made on information and belief is
insufficient if it merely asserts the facts so alleged without alleging such
information that leads the plaintiff to believe that the allegations are true.”  (Gomes v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc.
(2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1149, 1158–1159 [cleaned up].)
 
Here, the FAC contains
numerous underlying factual allegations supporting Keyway’s belief that PropCo
knew the property was stolen and that Leissner lacked the authority to
authorize the sale of the property on behalf of Keyway.  For example:
 
24. By the time of the purported sale of the
Property to Propco, the Propco Defendants had been through a complete loan
transaction with Keyway. All documents in connection with the Koronus loan
transaction were signed by Gregory Robinson on behalf of Keyway. As such, the
Propco Defendants and their team of professionals were all on notice that the
signature of Keyway’s manager, Midas, through its manager, Robinson, was
necessary for Keyway to enter into any transaction. Yet, the Propco Defendants
(and Chicago Title), nonetheless, accepted the signature of Leissner, as
Principal, on the purported Grant Deed transferring the Property and other
transactional documents.[2]
 
[…]
 
31. Additionally, the purported Keyway Resolution
dated October 16, 2020 authorizing Leissner to enter into the sale transaction
(the Purported Resolution) was not authentic which was obvious on its face. […]
 
32. The purported signature of Kimora Lee
Simmons-Leissner is clearly an electronic signature applied to the document. In
fact, Ms. Simmons never signed this document, authorized her signature to be
used on this document, or had any knowledge of this document. It is clear from
the face of the document that the signature was an electronic and not a
personal ink-signed signature. Yet, Defendants never required that the document
be signed in front of a notary or made any effort to contact Ms. Simmons directly
to confirm that she had signed the document. 
 
33. Additionally, the document has multiple
indicia of unreliability on its face. For example, in the text of the
Resolution, the name of Keyway is twice misspelled as Keywway thus undercutting
the viability of the document. The font of the date—October 16, 2020—is
different than the balance of the document again suggesting it was added to the
document at some other time than the original drafting of the document.
Finally, the Resolution purports to be signed by Ms. Simmons as President and
Manager and states that the officers and principals of Keyway, including
specifically, Tim Leissner, are authorized to enter into all necessary
agreements . . . . The title is incorrect on its face. Ms. Simmons was not a
member of Keyway in her individual capacity, and Defendants clearly knew she
was not. The only member of Keyway—even under the terms of the Propco Version
of the Keyway Operating Agreement—was Midas (which was called Z-One by time of
the purported sale documents). Moreover, again, the term principals is meaningless
in the context of a limited lability company and would not have been used in an
authentic document.
 
34. Indeed, even if the Propco Version of the
Keyway Operating Agreement was authentic (which it is not), the execution of
documents by Leissner alone under its terms would not be sufficient to bind
Keyway. The operative language of Section 11 of this documents states: “The
Company shall be a ‘manager-managed’ limited liability company for purposes of
the Act and shall be managed by a manager (‘Manager’). Midas Commodities Agents
Delaware LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, and its representatives, Mrs.
Kimora Lee Simmons-Leissner and Tim Leissner, is hereby appointed and shall
serve as the Manager until such time as a replacement is appointed with the
consent of the Members holding a majority of the Percentage Interests.” In
other words, the word “and” was used as a conjunctive make the “Manager” all
three of Midas, Ms. Simmons and Leissner and thus requiring all three of them
to take any act as “Manager.” Nothing in the fraudulently altered Propco
Version of the Keyway Operating Agreement authorized any one of three to take
an action as “Manager” alone. Thus, Leissner’s sole signature on transactional
documents do not satisfy even the requirements of the Propco Version of the
Keyway Operating Agreement. 
 
(FAC
¶¶ 24, 31-34.)
 
            Therefore,
the Court overrules PropCo’s demurrer to the second cause of action.
 
                                                                 
ii.           
Third
Cause of Action – Declaratory Relief
 
PropCo next demurs to the
third cause of action for declaratory relief on the bases that (1) it is
duplicative of the first cause of action for quiet title and cancelation and
(2) Keyway has failed to allege an actual controversy seeking prospective
relief.
 
Duplicative Relief
 
Any
person interested under a written instrument, excluding a will or a trust, or
under a contract, or who desires a declaration of his or her rights or duties
with respect to another, or in respect to, in, over or upon property, or with
respect to the location of the natural channel of a watercourse, may, in cases
of actual controversy relating to the legal rights and duties of the respective
parties, bring an original action or cross-complaint in the superior court for
a declaration of his or her rights and duties in the premises, including a
determination of any question of construction or validity arising under the
instrument or contract. He or she may ask for a declaration of rights or
duties, either alone or with other relief; and the court may make a binding
declaration of these rights or duties, whether or not further relief is or
could be claimed at the time. The declaration may be either affirmative or
negative in form and effect, and the declaration shall have the force of a
final judgment. The declaration may be had before there has been any breach of
the obligation in respect to which said declaration is sought.
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1060.)
 
Generally,
an action in declaratory relief will not lie to determine an issue which can be
determined in the underlying tort action. 
The relief statute should not be used for the purpose of anticipating
and determining an issue which can be determined in the main action. The object
of the statute is to afford a new form of relief where needed and not to
furnish a litigant with a second cause of action for the determination of
identical issues.  Under section 1061 of
the Code of Civil Procedure the court may refuse to exercise the power to grant
declaratory relief where such relief is not necessary or proper at the time
under all of the circumstances. The availability of another form of relief that
is adequate will usually justify refusal to grant declaratory relief. The
refusal to exercise the power is within the court's legal discretion and will
not be disturbed on appeal except for abuse of discretion.
 
(California Ins. Guarantee Assn. v.
Superior Court (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 1617, 1623–1624 [cleaned up]; see also
General of America Ins. Co. v. Lilly, 258 Cal.App.2d 465, 470 [affirming
the trial court’s sustaining of the demurrer and subsequent dismissal where the
declaratory relief sought was duplicative of an issue to be determined in the
main action.])
 
The FAC alleges:
 
55. An actual and present controversy has arisen
and now exists between Keyway and the Propco Defendants with respect to, among
other alleged agreements and without limitation, the PSA, Grant Deed, and Lease
in that Keyway contends, and the Propco Defendants deny, the following: 
 
a. Leissner was never authorized by Keyway act on
Keyway’s behalf in connection with the PSA, the Grant Deed, the Lease, and/or
otherwise; 
 
b. The purported sale of the Property to Propco
and lease back to Keyway was actually a disguised loan transaction designed to
enhance the Propco Defendants’ security in the Property and charge an onerous,
usurious rate of interest; 
 
c. Keyway has no obligation to pay claimed
amounts constituting usurious loan interest; and 
 
d. Keyway has no obligation to repay amounts on
the Koronous Loan that were not paid to Keyway upon funding of the loan by
Koronus.
 
(FAC ¶ 55.)
 
Keyway argues that the
declaratory relief sought is not duplicative of the quiet title/cancelation
cause of action, because underlying the quiet title cause of action is the
allegation that "Keyway did not approve or authorize the alleged transfer
of the Property, and the alleged transfer of the Property pursuant to the Grant
Deed is ineffective, invalid, null, and otherwise void” (FAC ¶ 43) and the
quiet title cause of action does not allege “(a) Leissner’s lack of
authorization to enter into the Lease, (b) the fact that the purported sale was
a disguised loan transaction, (c) the fact that Keyway has no obligation to pay
usurious interest, or (d) the fact that Keyway has no obligation to repay
amounts on the Koronus loan that were not paid to Keyway upon the funding of
that loan.”  (Opposition at p. 11.)
 
As a threshold matter, the
Court notes that the Quiet Title cause of action “incorporates by reference
each and every allegation contained in Paragraphs 1 through 39 above as though
fully set forth herein” (FAC ¶ 40) and therefore does incorporate the above
allegations.
 
Moreover, the issues of
whether Keyway authorized the alleged transfer and leaseback of the property
necessarily hinge on whether Mr. Leissner was authorized to act on behalf of
Keyway in entering the various transactions concerning the property.
 
However, the Court agrees that
Keyway’s allegations with regard to the loan repayment are not duplicative of
the quiet title/cancellation cause of action, which will determine the rightful
ownership of the property, not whether Keyway is responsible to repay the loan.  Importantly, because the (allegedly
fraudulent) sale of the property paid off the 2018 loan (FAC ¶ 38), voiding
that transfer would also unwind the loan payoff, potentially leaving Keyway
responsible for the now-unpaid balance.
 
Prospective Relief
 
For the same reasons, whether Keyway
is responsible to repay the 2018 Koronus loan is a present controversy seeking
prospective relief (namely, Keyway’s ongoing rights and responsibilities with
respect to repaying the Koronus loan).  PropCo
argues that because that loan was extinguished in connection with the 2020 sale
of the property, it is a past issue, not prospective relief.  But as discussed above, because an order
quieting title to the property would void that transaction, Keyway’s rights and
responsibilities with respect to the 2018 Koronus loan remains an ongoing point
of controversy.
 
Therefore, the Court overrules
PropCo’s demurrer to the third cause of action.
 
                                                               
iii.           
Sixth Cause of Action – Unfair Competition
Law
 
PropCo argues that the sixth
cause of action—for violations of California’s Unfair Competition Law
(“UCL”)—fail because (1) Keyway lacks standing to bring its UCL claims; and (2)
Keyway fails to allege an underlying violation of law.
 
Standing
 
PropCo’s first argument is
that Keyway lacks standing to bring its UCL claims because only a competitor or
a consumer may bring UCL claims.  In
support, PropCo cites to Linear Technology Corp. v. Applied Materials, Inc.,
which held, “to the extent that Linear purports to represent other customers,
permitting its UCL claim would raise serious fundamental due process
considerations” because “the alleged victims are neither competitors nor
powerless, unwary consumers,” but rather “corporate customers in Silicon
Valley, each of which presumably has the resources to seek damages or other
relief ... should it choose to do so.” (Linear Technology Corp. v. Applied
Materials, Inc. (2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 115, 135 (hereafter Linear).)  In particular, the Linear court (and
the court in Bronco Wine Co. v. Frank A. Logoluso Farms (1989) 214
Cal.App.3d 699, 720, upon which Linear is based) was concerned that, “[b]y
purporting to act as their self-appointed representative and asserting claims
on their behalf in a UCL action, [Linear] could in fact deprive [respondents']
alleged victims of the individual opportunity to seek remedies far more
extensive than those available under the UCL.”  (Ibid.)
 
By contrast, in Alch v.
Superior Court (2004) 122 Cal.App.4th 339, 401 and in Herr v.
Nestle U.S.A., Inc. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 779, 789, the Courts of Appeal
expressly rejected the argument that UCL claims are limited to consumers and
competitors, expanding the UCL’s reach to employees alleging unlawful
employment discrimination.
 
In Reply, PropCo argues that
the “weight of authority” supports PropCo’s interpretation of Linear—that
the UCL is limited to competitors and consumers, but the only authority PropCo
cites are nonbinding federal district court cases, many of which are
unpublished.
 
Thus, PropCo has not
established that standing to bring UCL claims is limited to consumers and
competitors.
 
Underlying Violation of Law
 
PropCo next contends that
because Keyway’s second cause of action for violations of Penal Code section
496 fails, its UCL claim, which is predicated upon the Penal Code section
violation, necessarily fails too.  As
discussed above, the Court overrules PropCo’s demurrer to the second cause of
action.  Therefore, Keyway’s UCL claim
does not fail for want of an underlying violation of law.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court overrules PropCo’s Demurrers to the Second,
Third, and Sixth Causes of Action in their entirety.  
 
Further, the Court orders PropCo to file an Answer to the verified First
Amended Complaint on or before February 9, 2024.  
 
PropCo shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof of
service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  January 29, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


