 Case Number:  23SMCV03392    Hearing Date:   January 29, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


January 29, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV03392




MOTIONS


Demurrer and Motion to Strike Portions of the First
  Amended Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendant California Fair Plan Association




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff Erin Hughes



 
MOTIONS
 
On October 25, 2023, Plaintiff Erin Hughes (“Plaintiff”) filed a First
Amended Complaint, alleging six causes of action: (1) breach of insurance
policy contract; (2) breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing;
(3) negligence; (4) fraud; (5) negligent misrepresentation; and (6) unfair
business practices.  
 
Defendant California Fair Plan Association (“Defendant”) demurs to all
six causes of action on the grounds that they fail to state a cause of action
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e).  Defendant also moves to strike Plaintiff’s
claims for mental and emotional distress damages, punitive damages, and
attorneys’ fees.  
 
Plaintiff opposes the demurrer and motion.
 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
            Defendant requests the Court to take
judicial notice of the following document:
 
1.     
Exhibit A – Insurance Policy No. CFP 2697143 00 issued
by Defendant to Plaintiff for effective policy period December 12, 2020 to
December 12, 2021.  
 
Defendant makes the request pursuant to Evidence Code section 452,
subdivision (h) as “facts and propositions that are not reasonably subject to
dispute and are capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to
sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.”
 
Evidence Code section 452 is not mandatory, but permissive, providing
that judicial notice may be taken.  
 
In support of Defendant’s request, Defendant cites to several cases as
standing for the proposition that courts may properly take judicial notice of
private contracts generally as facts and propositions not reasonably subject to
dispute and capable of immediate and accurate determination by sources of
reasonably indisputable accuracy.  The
Court disagrees that the cited cases establish such a principle.
 
In Sheet Metal Workers Internat. Assn., Local Union No. 104 v. Rea,
the court took judicial notice of the prevailing wage determinations for San
Mateo and Santa Clara Counties as “official acts of an executive department of
this state” pursuant to Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (c), not as “facts
and propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy” pursuant to subdivision (h).  (Sheet Metal Workers Internat. Assn., Local
Union No. 104 v. Rea (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1071, 1075.)
 
 
Similarly, in Scott v. JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., the court
took judicial notice of the P & A Agreement posted on the official FDIC
website and its legal effect, both as an official act of the executive branch
pursuant to subdivision (c) and as facts and propositions not reasonably
subject to dispute and capable of immediate and accurate determination by
resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy [the FDIC’s official
website].  (Scott v. JPMorgan Chase
Bank, N.A. (2013) 214 Cal.App.4th 743, 753.)
 
At issue in Ascherman v. General Reinsurance Corp was whether
it was proper for the trial and appellate courts to consider judicially
noticeable evidence at all in ruling on a demurrer, not whether the specific evidence
at issue was properly subject to judicial notice.  In any event, the appellate court noted that
the trial court took judicial notice of the reinsurance contract pursuant to
subdivisions (c) and (h), which suggests that the reinsurance contract at issue
involved some official government act, which also made it capable of
determination by resort to sources of reasonably indisputable accuracy.  (Ascherman v. General Reinsurance Corp
(1986) 183 Cal.App.3d 307, 311.)
 
Finally, in Hendy v. Losse, the parties did not dispute whether
it was proper for the trial court to take judicial notice of the National
Football League employment contract and collective bargaining agreement between
the league’s management counsel and the National Football League Players
Association, so the California Supreme Court did not analyze the issue.  (Hendy v. Losse (1991) 54 Cal.3d 723,
728.)
 
Here, Defendant does not cite to any authority that a private contract
between litigants is somehow capable of determination by resort to sources of
reasonably indisputable accuracy.
 
Therefore, the Court declines to take judicial notice of the insurance
policy.
 
ANALYSIS
 
1.      DEMURRER
 
“It is black letter law that a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of
the allegations in a complaint.”  (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015)
235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  In testing the sufficiency of a cause of
action, a court accepts “[a]s true all material facts properly pled and matters
which may be judicially noticed but disregard contentions, deductions or
conclusions of fact or law.  [A court
also gives] the complaint a reasonable interpretation, reading it as a whole
and its parts in their context.”  (290
Division (EAT), LLC v. City & County of San Francisco (2022) 86
Cal.App.5th 439, 450 [cleaned up]; Hacker v. Homeward Residential, Inc.
(2018) 26 Cal.App.5th 270, 280 [“in considering the merits of a demurrer,
however, “the facts alleged in the pleading are deemed to be true, however
improbable they may be”].)
 
Further, in ruling on a demurrer, a court must “liberally construe”
the allegations of the complaint “with a view to substantial justice between
the parties.”  (See Code Civ. Proc., §
452.)  “This rule of liberal construction
means that the reviewing court draws inferences favorable to the plaintiff, not
the defendant.”  (Perez v. Golden Empire Transit Dist. (2012) 209
Cal.App.4th 1228, 1238.)   
 
In summary, “[d]etermining whether the complaint is sufficient as
against the demurrer on the ground that it does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action, the rule is that if one consideration of all the
facts stated it appears the plaintiff is entitled to any relief at the hands of
the court against the defendants the complaint will be held good although the
facts may not be clearly stated, or may be intermingled with a statement of
other facts irrelevant to the cause of action shown, or although the plaintiff
may demand relief to which he is not entitled under the facts alleged.”  (Gressley v. Williams (1961) 193
Cal.App.2d 636, 639.)
 
A.   
FAILURE TO STATE A CAUSE OF ACTION
 
                                                                   
i.           
First
Cause of Action – Breach of Contract
 
“To prevail on a cause of
action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must prove (1) the contract, (2)
the plaintiff's performance of the contract or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
the defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damage to the plaintiff.”  (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224
Cal.App.4th 1182, 1186.)  
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff fails to attach a copy of the insurance contract or plead
its essential terms and that Plaintiff also fails to allege Defendant’s breach.
 
            With
regard to the existence of the contract, Plaintiff alleges as follows:
 
7. On or about December 12, 2020 The Defendant CFP issued to Plaintiff
a Dwelling INSURANCE POLICY NO. 2697143 00. The
policy coverage period was from December 12, 2020 through December 12, 2021.
The policy inter alia covered among other conditions direct loss of
dwelling from fire for an amount of $1,200,000, as well as, damage to plants
and shrubs on the property for an amount of $100,000 (“POLICY”).
 
[…]
 
13. The Plaintiff and the Defendant entered into a written contractual
agreement, with the Plaintiff being an insured under the POLICY which provided
coverage for a loss caused by fire and granted $1.2 Million in dwelling
coverage as well as $100,000 in plants and shrub damage. The POLICY was in
effect on the date of the loss and is in the possession of CFP.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 7, 13.)
 
            As for Defendant’s alleged breach,
Plaintiff alleges:
 
15. The Defendant breached the terms of the POLICY by unreasonably
delaying investigation of the claim and the refusing to compensate Plaintiff
for the covered loss pursuant to the terms of the policy including preparation
of erroneous estimates for rebuild by William Ball and Crawford, failing to pay
the 1.2 Million in insurance benefits, failing to pay Full Rental Value,
failing to accurately allocate and define the insurance premium payment
disbursements, failing to pay $100,000 in plants and shrub coverage, as well as
engaging in actions described in Paragraph 10 of this Complaint.
 
(FAC
¶ 15.)  
 
            Defendant contends “these bare
allegations” are insufficient to put Plaintiff on notice of what breach
occurred.  The Court disagrees.  There is no heightened pleading standard for breach
of contract, and Plaintiff has adequately pleaded that Defendant beached the
terms of the agreement by, among other things, (1) “unreasonably delaying
investigation of the claim”; (2) “refusing to compensate Plaintiff for the
covered loss pursuant to the terms of the policy”; (3) “failing to pay the 1.2
Million in insurance benefits”; (4) “failing to pay Full Rental Value”; (5)
“failing to accurately allocate and define the insurance premium payment
disbursements”; and (6) “failing to pay $100,000 in plants and shrub
coverage[.]”  This is sufficient at the
pleadings stage.
 
Defendant also argues that it “actually paid Plaintiff the full
$1,200,000 policy limits under Dwelling Coverage.”  (Demurrer at p. 10, fn. 1.)  However, there is no evidentiary basis for
Defendant’s contention, and even if there were, the Court cannot properly
consider extrinsic evidence when deciding a demurrer.  (See, e.g., Childs v. State of California
(1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 155, 163 [“It is an elementary rule that the sole
function of a demurrer is to test the sufficiency of the challenged
pleading.  It cannot, properly, be
addressed to or based upon evidence or other extrinsic matters”].)
 
Defendant also contends that Plaintiff’s action is time-barred by
virtue of a clause in the policy requiring that claims be brought within one
year.  (Demurrer at pp. 10-11.)  This argument is premised on an analysis of
the policy agreement, which the Court has declined to take judicial notice of
at this stage of the litigation. 
Therefore, the Court cannot sustain a demurrer on this basis.
 
                                                                 
ii.           
Second
Cause of Action – Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
“Every contract imposes upon
each party a duty of good faith and fair dealing in its performance and its
enforcement.”  (Foley v. Interactive
Data Corp. (1988) 47 Cal.3d 654, 683.) 
“Because the covenant is a contract term, however, compensation for its
breach has almost always been limited to contract rather than tort remedies.”  (Id. at p. 684.)  “As a contract concept, breach of the duty
led to imposition of contract damages determined by the nature of the breach
and standard contract principles.”  (Ibid.)
 
A notable exception to this
general rule is in the insurance contract context, where courts have determined,
that due to the special fiduciary relationship between insurer and insured,
breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing can sound in tort
in such a context.  (Foley v.
Interactive Data Corp., supra, 47 Cal.3d at pp. 684-693.)  
 
“[I]n a claim against an
insurance carrier, ‘there are at least two separate requirements to establish
breach of the implied covenant [of good faith and fair dealing]: (1) benefits
due under the policy must have been withheld; and (2) the reason for withholding
benefits must have been unreasonable or without proper cause.”  (Shusha, Inc. v. Century-National
Insurance Company (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 250, 267.)
 
Defendant contends Plaintiff’s
second cause of action for Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and
Fair Dealing fails because (1) Plaintiff failed to state a claim for breach of
contract; and (2) Plaintiff does not allege Defendant’s conduct was
unreasonable.
 
With regard to Defendant’s
first argument, as discussed above, Plaintiff adequately alleges a cause of
action for breach of contract.
 
With respect to Plaintiff’s
allegations of reasonableness, the FAC alleges:
 
10. The Plaintiff timely made a claim to CFP,
however, CFP negligently and in bad faith: 
 
(a) Misrepresented the maximum available
insurance coverage to Plaintiff and concealed that the maximum dwelling and
property coverage available was $3,000,000; 
 
(b) Wrongfully and in bad faith failed to Pay To
Plaintiff the full $1.2 Million dwelling insurance coverage; 
 
(c) Intentionally Misrepresented the estimates
for rebuilding the dwelling it provided to Hughes with the help of William Ball
and Crawford & Company. Instead of using the original floor plans provided
to Mr. Ball by Plaintiff, William Ball and Crawford inserted the wrong
description of Plaintiff’s property and used a computer program to generate an
estimate with erroneous property description that was to be rebuilt. The
property description in Ball’s estimate was starkly different from the original
plans of the property given to him by Plaintiff. Ball wrote the first incorrect
estimate with the wrong property description in May of 2021 where the rebuild
cost was $650,000. After Plaintiff informed Ball of the mistakes in his
estimates he delayed issuing another estimate until May 6 of 2022. The May 2022
estimate was for $1,536,86488 but still had the wrong description of the
property which was to be rebuild. These mistakes by Ball caused an unreasonable
delay in processing the claim and the claim is still not processed since the
required insurance benefits have not been paid. Furthermore CARRINGTON insisted
on using the erroneous estimate prepared by Ball in allocation of the insurance
funds it held and refused to disburse such funds to the Plaintiff unless she
followed the erroneous estimate. Based on information and belief the insurance
funds were kept by CARRINGTON in an account where the interest was paid to the
California State which indirectly benefits California Fair Plan . 
 
(d) CFP and Carrington Unreasonably and
fraudulently delayed payment of policy benefits and intentionally stalled the
rebuild of the property to allow Carrington to foreclosure on the property and
keep all the equity. This fraudulent plan was achieved by redirecting the
Plaintiff with her requests to disburse funds for rebuild from CFP to
Carrington and back based on the wrongful estimate of William Ball, as well as
Crawford & Company who prepared incorrect estimates and floor plans of
Plaintiff’s property which they refused to correct causing delay, ultimate
seizure of $802,135.01 in insurance benefits payments by Plaintiff’s mortgagee
Carrington Mortgage Services LLC and a judicial foreclosure complaint by
Carrington; 
 
(e) CFP Failed to accurately specify the
allocation of approximately $225,000 in insurance benefits causing Carrington
Mortgage to refuse to pay these funds to Plaintiff; 
 
(f) CFP wrongfully refused to pay Fair Rental
Value to Plaintiff for her relocation expenses. In fact based on a conversation
overheard by Plaintiff between CFP and Carrington’s representative , Carrington
instructed CFP and the latter agreed not to pay full Fair Rental Value to
Plaintiff because Carrington wanted to keep more of the insurance proceeds to
itself. 
 
(g) CFP wrongfully issued a partial denial on
Plaintiff s claim for fire damage to her plants and shrubs and refusing to pay
approximately $51,000.00 in insurance benefits for damage to her plants 
 
(h) While knowing that Plaintiff has suffered
severe emotional distress and is experiencing extreme post-traumatic stress
disorder due to the loss of her family home while having 4 young children to
take care of, as well as her incapacitated by a stroke ex-husband, CFP
intentionally and for several years since the fire occurred and reporting of
the claim engaged in conduct described in paragraphs (a)-(h) despite numerous
requests to cure their mistakes by the Plaintiff and her counsel.
 
[…]
 
20. CFP acted in bad faith and without proper
cause when it: 
 
(a) Unreasonably delayed payment of policy
benefits and intentionally stalled the claim by issuing an erroneous estimate
for rebuild of the dwelling, use of outdated and incorrect floor plans by
Defendants CFP, WILLIAM BALL, as well as CRAWFORD & COMPANY who prepared
incorrect estimates and floor plans of Plaintiff’s property which they refused
to revise causing delay and ultimate freezing of $802,135.01 in insurance
benefits payments by Plaintiff’s mortgagee Carrington Mortgage Services LLC ; 
 
(b) Failed to accurately specify the allocation
of approximately $225,000 in insurance benefits causing Carrington Mortgage to
refuse to pay these funds to Plaintiff; 
 
(c) Wrongfully issuing a partial denial on
Plaintiff s claim for fire damage to her plants and shrubs and refusing to pay
approximately $51,000.00 in insurance benefits for damage to her vegetation; 
 
(d) Wrongfully and intentionally issuing faulty
rebuild estimates through CRAWFORD & COMPANY as well as estimator/adjuster
WILLIAM BALL which were lacking sufficient detail for allocation of insurance
benefits and which caused Plaintiff’s mortgagee Carrington Mortgage Services
LLC to refuse the release to Plaintiff of approximately $802,135.01 in
insurance benefits;
 
(e) Failure of CRAWFORD & COMPANY and WILLIAM
BALL to use accurate floor plans, blue prints and county records in their
estimates for rebuild of the dwelling; 
 
(f) Unreasonably and in bad faith failing to
implement standards for the prompt investigation and processing of claims; 
 
(g) Unreasonably and in bad faith denying
coverage despite all uncontroverted evidence requiring coverage; 
 
(h) Unreasonably and in bad faith failed to
retain competent independent experts to ¿sist [sic] in the fair, reasonable,
objective and prompt investigation of the claim; 
 
(i) Unreasonably and in bad faith withheld
payment of sums due and owing Plaintiff; 
 
(j) Unreasonably and in bad faith failed to
reasonably investigate and process Plaintiff’s claim for benefits; 
 
(k) Unreasonably and in bad faith failed to
objectively investigate the claim; 
 
(l) Unreasonably and in bad faith failed to
thoroughly investigate the claim; 
 
(m) Unreasonably and in bad faith ignored
evidence supporting coverage such as invoices, statements from witnesses, and
photos of stolen items; 
 
(n) Unreasonably and in bad faith failed to
search diligently for evidence that supported payment of the claim; and 
 
(o) Unreasonably and in bad faith compelled
Plaintiff to institute litigation to recover amounts due under the Policy; 
 
(p) Engaged in acts described in Paragraph 10 of
this Complaint
 
(FAC
¶¶ 10, 20.)  Thus, the Complaint
adequately alleges that Defendant unreasonably delayed and partially denied
Plaintiff’s claim, despite possessing contrary information, by virtue of
Plaintiff’s repeated communications with Defendant.
 
                                                               
iii.           
Third
Cause of Action – Negligence 
 
“The elements of any negligence
cause of action are duty, breach of duty, proximate cause, and damages.”  (Peredia v. HR Mobile Services, Inc.
(2018) 25 Cal.App.5th 680, 687.)
 
Defendant contends that insurers
owe no duty of care to insureds.  (See Sanchez
v. Lindsey Morden Claims Servs., Inc. (1999) 72 Cal.App.4th 249, 254
[“Negligence is not among the theories of recovery generally available against insurers”],
citing Croskey et al., Cal. Practice Guide: Insurance Litigation 2 (The Rutter
Group 1998) ¶¶ 12:818, 11:205, pp. 12C-6, 11-48 to 11-49, rev. #1, 1996]
[outlining the few exceptions, such as duty to defend, not relevant here].)  
 
Specifically, absent specific
exceptions, not applicable here, insurers can be liable to insureds only on
tort causes of action requiring bad faith, such as the breach of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. 
(Ibid.)  
 
Therefore, the Court sustains
Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action for Negligence.
 
                                                                 
ii.           
Fourth
and Fifth Causes of Action – Fraud & Negligent Misrepresentation
 
The elements for fraudulent
misrepresentation are “(1) the defendant represented to the plaintiff that an
important fact was true; (2) that representation was false; (3) the defendant
knew that the representation was false when the defendant made it, or the
defendant made the representation recklessly and without regard for its truth;
(4) the defendant intended that the plaintiff rely on the representation; (5)
the plaintiff reasonably relied on the representation; (6) the plaintiff was
harmed; and (7) the plaintiff's reliance on the defendant's representation was
a substantial factor in causing that harm to the plaintiff.”  (Graham v. Bank of America, N.A.
(2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 594, 605–606.)  
 
“The essential elements of a
count for negligent misrepresentation are the same [as intentional
misrepresentation] except that it does not require knowledge of falsity but
instead requires a misrepresentation of fact by a person who has no reasonable
grounds for believing it to be true.”  (Chapman
v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 230-231 (hereafter Chapman).)  Like intentional misrepresentation, causes of
action for negligent misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also,
therefore, be pleaded with particularity. 
(Ibid.)  
 
“In California, fraud must be
pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.”  (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12
Cal.4th 631, 645.)  “This particularity
requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how, when, where, to whom,
and by what means the representations were tendered.”  (Ibid.)  Causes of action for negligent
misrepresentation sound in fraud, and must also, therefore, be pleaded with
particularity.  (Chapman v. Skype Inc.,
supra, 220 Cal.App.4th at pp. 230-231.)  
 
Defendant contends Plaintiff fails
to plead the fraud-based causes of action with requisite specificity -- Plaintiff
fails to allege any misrepresentations Defendant made and Plaintiff fails to
allege reliance.   
 
With respect to Defendant’s
alleged misrepresentations, Plaintiff alleges:
 
10. The Plaintiff timely made a claim to CFP,
however, CFP negligently and in bad faith: 
 
(a) Misrepresented the maximum available
insurance coverage to Plaintiff and concealed that the maximum dwelling and
property coverage available was $3,000,000;
 
[…]
 
(c) Intentionally Misrepresented the estimates
for rebuilding the dwelling it provided to Hughes with the help of William Ball
and Crawford & Company. […]
 
(g) CFP wrongfully issued a partial denial on
Plaintiff s claim for fire damage to her plants and shrubs and refusing to pay
approximately $51,000.00 in insurance benefits for damage to her plants
 
28. […]
 
(d) CFP Intentionally concealed and/or
misrepresenting the allocation of approximately $225,000 in insurance benefits
which resulted in Carrington Mortgage refusal to pay these funds to Plaintiff;
Also fraudulently failed to pay the $1.2 Million in insurance proceeds to the
Plaintiff 
 
(e) CFP Wrongfully issuing a partial denial on
Plaintiff s claim for fire damage to her plants and shrubs and refusing to pay
approximately $51,000.00 in insurance benefits for damage to her vegetation; 
 
(f) All Defendants Wrongfully and intentionally
used and enforced faulty rebuild estimates through engagement of CRAWFORD &
COMPANY as well as estimator/adjuster William Ball which were lacking
sufficient detail for allocation of insurance benefits and which caused
Plaintiff’s mortgagee Carrington Mortgage Services LLC to refuse the release to
Plaintiff of approximately $802,135.01 in insurance benefits.
 
[…]
 
29. The Plaintiff relied on the above fraudulent
representations by the Defendants and Does 2- 50, and was not aware of the true
nature of the facts due to the half truth representation of CFP’s adjusters
including Kwanza Johnson , Mandy Thornton, William Ball and other Does 1-50 who
misrepresented the reason for partial denial of Plaintiff’s insurance benefits
for damage to her vegetation, used inaccurate and false estimates for damages
to Plaintiff’s dwelling prepared by William Ball and Does 1-50 who knew or
should have known that these representations were not true.
 
(FAC
¶¶ 10, 28-29.)  Although the FAC contains
some specific facts about what Defendant’s alleged misrepresentations are, and the
individuals who made the misrepresentations, it does not specify when the
alleged misrepresentations were made, how some of them were made (e.g. orally,
in writing, etc.), or to whom the misrepresentations were made.  Thus, Plaintiff fails to plead her fraud and
negligent misrepresentation claims with requisite specificity.
 
            Therefore, the Court sustains
Defendant’s demurrers to the fourth and fifth causes of action.
 
                                                               
iii.           
Sixth
Cause of Action – Unfair Business Practices
 
Business and Professions Code section 17200, known as the Unfair
Competition Law, or “UCL,” bars unfair competition, defined as “any unlawful,
unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or
misleading advertising and any act prohibited by Chapter 1 (commencing with
Section 17500) of Part 3 of Division 7 of the Business and Professions
Code.  “An ‘unlawful’ business practice
or act within the meaning of the UCL is an act or practice, committed pursuant
to business activity, that is at the same time forbidden by law.”  (Bernardo v. Planned Parenthood Federation
of America (2004) 115 Cal.App.4th 322, 351.)  “By proscribing ‘any unlawful’ business
practice, section 17200 borrows violations of other laws and treats them as
unlawful practices that the unfair competition law makes independently actionable.”  (Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los
Angeles Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 180.)  Moreover, “a practice may be deemed unfair
even if not specifically proscribed by some other law.”  (Ibid.)
 
Defendant argues that (1) Plaintiff does not allege Defendant engaged
in any unfair, unlawful, or fraudulent conduct; and (2) Plaintiff has not
demonstrated an entitlement to restitution or injunctive relief.  
 
As to Defendant’s conduct, Plaintiff
alleges:
 
35. The Defendants and each of them made false
representations and engaged in deceptive business practices as stated in
paragraphs 1-31which harmed the Plaintiff and require a restitution of the
Plaintiff’s funds, compensatory and punitive damages due to malice of the
Defendants. 
 
As discussed above, Plaintiff
fails to allege fraud with requisite specificity, and therefore, cannot predicate
the UCL claim on the fraud-based causes of action.  Moreover, while Plaintiff alleges other
Defendants committed statutory violations, Plaintiff does not allege any
unlawful behavior as to Defendant.  Thus,
Plaintiff’s UCL claim survives, only if Plaintiff has alleged Defendant engaged
in an “unfair” business practice.
 
A business practice is
“unfair” under the UCL if (1) it is within the “penumbra” of some other law and
therefore violates public policy; (2) it is immoral, unethical, oppressive, or
unscrupulous; or (3) causes substantial injury to consumers, competitors, or
other businessmen.  
 
Plaintiff does not allege any conduct
that violates public policy under the penumbra of any other law, nor does
Plaintiff allege immoral, unethical, oppressive, or unscrupulous conduct on
behalf of Defendant.  
 
Therefore, the Court sustains
Defendant’s demurrer to the sixth cause of action.
 
2.     
MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve
and file a motion to strike the whole pleading or any part thereof.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1322, subd. (b).) 
On a motion to strike, the court may: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or
any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of
California, a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767,
782.)  Here, Chan moves to strike from the complaint,
references to and claims for punitive damages.    
 
Defendant moves to strike Plaintiff’s references to and requests for
punitive damages, attorneys’ fees, and emotional distress.  
 
Punitive Damages
 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hosp., Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721.)  Per Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must
allege that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).)   As set forth in the Civil Code, 
 
(1) “Malice” means conduct which is intended
by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which
is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others.  (2)
“Oppression” means despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and
unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.  (3) “Fraud” means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.
 
(Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1)-(3), emphasis added.)  
 
Further, a plaintiff must assert facts with specificity to support a
conclusion that a defendant acted with oppression, fraud or malice.  To wit, there is a heightened pleading
requirement regarding a claim for punitive damages.  (See Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10
Cal.App.4th 1033, 1041-1042.)  “When
nondeliberate injury is charged, allegations that the defendant’s conduct was
wrongful, willful, wanton, reckless or unlawful do not support a claim for
exemplary damages; such allegations do not charge malice.  When a defendant must produce evidence in
defense of an exemplary damage claim, fairness demands that he receive adequate
notice of the kind of conduct charged against him.” (G. D. Searle & Co.
v. Superior Court (1975) 49 Cal.App.3d 22, 29 [cleaned up].)  In Anschutz Entertainment Group, Inc. v.
Snepp, the Court of Appeal noted that the plaintiffs’ assertions related to
their claim for punitive damages were “insufficient to meet the specific
pleading requirement.”  (Anschutz
Entertainment Group, Inc. v. Snepp (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 598, 643
[plaintiffs alleged “the conduct of Defendants was intentional, and done
willfully, maliciously, with ill will towards Plaintiffs, and with conscious
disregard for Plaintiff's rights. Plaintiff's injuries were exacerbated by the
malicious conduct of Defendants. Defendants' conduct justifies an award of
exemplary and punitive damages”]; see also Grieves
v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166 [“The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud, or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim”].)   
            
Here, as discussed above, Plaintiff has not alleged facts with
requisite specificity to state the causes of action sounding in fraud against
Defendant.  Similarly, Plaintiff has not
alleged facts with the requisite specificity demonstrating oppression or
malice.  As such, the Court finds that
the allegations do not adequately support a claim for punitive damages against Defendant.    
 
            Attorneys’ Fees
 
            An insured can
recovery attorneys’ fees incurred where the insurer is found to have acted in
bad faith.  (Brandt v. Superior Court (1985)
37 Cal.3d 813.)  Because the Court
overrules Defendant’s demurrer to Plaintiff’s second cause of action for breach
of the implied warranty of good faith and fair dealing, Plaintiff’s request for
attorneys’ fees is also proper.
 
            Emotional
Distress
            Defendant contends that Plaintiff
may not recover damages for emotional distress on claims for breach of contract
or negligence.  (Motion to Strike at pp.
10-12.)  But where a Defendant’s breach
of contract also constitutes a tort, the Plaintiff may recover damages for
mental distress.  (Crisci v. Security
Ins. Co. of New Haven, Conn. (1967) 66 Cal.2d 425, 433-434.)  Here, because Plaintiff has adequately
alleged causes of action for breach of contract and breach of the implied
warranty of good faith and fair dealing, Plaintiff may request damages for
emotional distress.
3.     
LEAVE TO AMEND
 
A plaintiff has the burden of showing in what
manner the complaint could be amended and how the amendment would change the
legal effect of the complaint, i.e., state a cause of action. (See The
Inland Oversight Committee v City of San Bernardino (2018) 27 Cal.App.5th
771, 779; PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc. (2017)
14 Cal.App.5th 156, 189.) A plaintiff must not only state the legal basis for
the amendment, but also the factual allegations sufficient to state a cause of
action or claim. (See PGA West Residential Assn., Inc. v Hulven Int'l, Inc.,
supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 189.) Moreover, a plaintiff does not meet his
or her burden by merely stating in the opposition to a demurrer or motion to
strike that “if the Court finds the operative complaint deficient, plaintiff
respectfully requests leave to amend.” (See Major Clients Agency v Diemer
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1116, 1133; Graham v Bank of America (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 594, 618 [asserting an abstract right to amend does not satisfy the
burden].)
 
In the opposition, Plaintiff contends she can add additional facts
demonstrating reliance, and alleging statutory violations and negligence by
Defendants Crawford and Ball, but does not provide any more specific facts
regarding Defendant California Fair Plan’s alleged misrepresentations or statutory
violations
 
Therefore, the Court denies Plaintiff’s request for leave to
amend.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
For the reasons stated, the Court sustains Defendant’s Demurrer to the
third, fourth, fifth, and sixth causes of action without leave to amend,
and overrules Defendant’s Demurrer to the first and second causes of
action.  
 
Further, the Court grants in part and denies in part Defendant’s
motion to strike.  The Court strikes from
the first amended complaint Plaintiff’s requests for and references to punitive
damages as follows without leave to amend:
 
1.      “As
a proximate result of the malicious, oppressive and fraudulent conduct,” (FAC ¶
11, 5:24)
 
2.      “Due
to the malicious, oppressive, and fraudulent conduct of the Defendants, and
Does 2-50, Plaintiff is entitled to exemplary damages.” (FAC, ¶ 22, 9:2-3.)
 
3.      “Due
to the malicious, oppressive, and fraudulent conduct of the Defendants, and
Does 1-50, Plaintiff is entitled to exemplary damages.” (FAC, ¶ 31, 13:23-24.)
 
4.      “and
exemplary damages.” (FAC, ¶ 37, 14:23-24.)
 
5.      “2)
For punitive damages.” (FAC, Prayer for Relief on the Second and Fourth Causes
of Action, ¶ 2, 15:9.)
 
6.      “3)
Punitive Damages.” (FAC, Prayer for Relief on the Sixth Cause of Action, ¶ 3,
15:17.)
 
7.      “5)
Punitive and exemplary damages in an amount appropriate to punish or set an
example of Farmers” [sic] (FAC, Prayer for Relief on All Causes of Action, ¶ 5,
16:3-4.)
 
Defendant’s motion to strike is denied in all other respects.
 
Defendant shall file and serve an answer to the amended complaint as required
under the Code of Civil Procedure.[1]  
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  January 29, 2024                                                    ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court


