  Case Number:  23STCV04117    Hearing Date:   January 10, 2025    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING
 



DEPT:


39




HEARING DATE:


January 10, 2025




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV04117




MOTION:  


Motion for Leave to Amend




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiff Harold Burton Igdaloff




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant Hany S. Fangary



 
MOTION
            Plaintiff
Harold Burton Igdaloff, individually and on behalf of the Estate of Evelyn
Igdaloff, and the Igdaloff 1993 Family Trust (“Plaintiff”) moves for leave to
file a second amended complaint.  Defendant
Hany S. Fangary (“Defendant”) opposes the motion.  
ANALYSIS
Under Code of
Civil Procedure section 473, subdivision (a)(1), “[t]he court may, in
furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow a party to
amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by the code.”  The Court has wide discretion to allow either
party to amend pleadings “upon any terms as may be just.”  (Ibid.)  Judicial policy favors resolution of all
disputed matters between the parties and, therefore, leave to amend is
liberally granted.  (Berman vs.
Bromberg (1986) 56 Cal.App.4th 936, 945.) 
“[I]t is an abuse of discretion for the court to deny leave to amend
where the opposing party was not misled or prejudiced by the amendment.”  (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court
(1989) 213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)
Under California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a), a motion to amend a pleading must include a
copy of the proposed amendment and state the allegations the moving party
proposes to add or delete.  Rule 3.1324
also requires the moving party to provide a declaration stating the effect of
the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and proper, when the facts giving
rise to the amended allegations were discovered, and the reasons why the
request for amendment was not made earlier. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1324(a).) 
Plaintiff relies
on the declaration of his counsel, Steven C. Glickman (“Counsel”) who states
Plaintiff seeks leave to substitute Plaintiff’s successor-in-interest, Nancy
Igdaloff (“Igdaloff”) for Plaintiff, as Plaintiff has died.  Further, Plaintiff seeks leave to add a claim
for breach of contract to enforce the settlement agreement into which Plaintiff
contends the parties entered.  (Declaration
of Steven C. Glickman, ¶ 4.)  Such
amendments are proper to resolve all disputes between the parties.  
In opposition,
Defendant argues Plaintiff unreasonably delayed in seeking leave to amend.  As Defendant points out, Plaintiff contends
Defendant breached the settlement agreement in February 2024, but Plaintiff did
not file this motion until November 20, 2024. 
However, Defendant fails to articulate any prejudice Defendant has suffered
from this delay.  Plaintiff notes any
delay in bring the instant motion was occasioned by her filing a motion to
enforce the settlement agreement, which was not denied by this Court until
November 14, 2024, and thereafter, Plaintiff filed this motion.  In any event, delay alone is not grounds for
denial of the motion.  
Defendant also
argues Plaintiff’s proposed additional claims fail.  The Court will not consider the merits of the
proposed amendments in determining whether to grant leave to amend.  (Kittredge Sports Co. v. Superior Court (1989)
213 Cal.App.3d 1045, 1048.)  
Accordingly, the
motion is granted, and Plaintiff is to file and serve Plaintiff’s Second
Amended Complaint within 10 days from the issuance of this order.  
The Court notes Defendant Fangary Law Group,
Inc. is a suspended corporation.  “The
suspension of the corporate powers, rights, and privileges means a suspended
corporation cannot sue or defend a lawsuit while its taxes remain
unpaid.”  (Kaufman & Broad Communities, Inc. v. Performance
Plastering, Inc. (2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 212, 217–218.)  Accordingly, the Court strikes the answer of
Defendant Fangary Law Group, Inc. to Plaintiff’s first amended complaint.  
Plaintiff is to
give notice of this order and to file proof of service of same.