  Case Number:  21STCV27752    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



LUIS CALDERON,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
ADELPHIA PROPERTIES, LLC, et al.,
                                                                              
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV27752
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO SET ASIDE/VACATE DEFAULT
 
Date: September 18, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant Adelphia Properties,
LLC (“Moving Defendant”)
 
RESONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
 
            The Court has
considered the moving, opposition and reply papers.[1]
 
BACKGROUND
            On July 28, 2021,
Plaintiff filed a complaint (the “Complaint”) alleging violations of the Unruh
Act.  
 
 
 
On July 26, 2022,
Moving Defendant’s default was taken, and on January 26, 2023, the Court
entered default judgment against Moving Defendant.  On June 29, 2023, Moving Defendant filed a
motion to set aside the default and default judgment (the “Motion”) on the
grounds that the service of the Complaint and summons did not result in Moving
Defendant receiving actual notice of the litigation. 
 
DISCUSSION
California Code of Civil Procedure
(“CCP”) section 473.5 provides relief from default or default judgment to
defendants who, despite proper service, never received “actual notice” of the
lawsuit in time to defend against it. (Luxury Asset Lending, LLC v.
Philadelphia Television Network, Inc. (2021) 56 Cal.App.5th 894, 908.)  To obtain such relief, the defaulted
defendant must submit an affidavit showing the lack of actual notice was not
due to its avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect.  (Id.) 
There is also a time limitation on such a motion.  (Id.) 
It must be served and filed “within a reasonable time” but before the
earlier of: (1) 180 days after service of written notice of the default or
default judgment on the defendant or (2) two years after entry of the default
judgment.  (Id.)  The trial court may set aside the default or
default judgment if it finds the moving defendant has met the timeliness
requirement and has shown the lack of actual notice was not due to avoidance of
service or inexcusable neglect.  (Id.)  A motion brought pursuant to CCP section
473.5 shall be accompanied by an affidavit showing under oath that
the party's lack of actual notice in time to defend the action was not
caused by their avoidance of service or inexcusable neglect.  (CCP § 473.5, subd. (b).)  The party shall serve and file
with the notice a copy of the answer, motion, or other pleading
proposed to be filed in the action.  (Id.)
 
The amended Proof of Service (“POS”) filed on
July 26, 2022 states that Moving Defendant’s attorney and registered agent
Antonio Munoz (“Munoz”) was served via substitute service on June 10,
2022.  The Complaint and summons were
left with a receptionist, an unknown male identified as “Jane Doe” and then
mailed to Munoz’s business address.  
 
Moving Defendant did not learn of the
Complaint until approximately the end of May 2023 when Plaintiff’s counsel
called its owner.  (Declaration of Thanos
Paziouros (“Paziouros Decl.”) ¶ 2.) 
Plaintiff’s owner does not know the identity of the Jane Doe identified in
the POS as the individual who accepted service of the Complaint.  (Paziouros Decl. ¶ 3.)  
 
Before it filed the Motion, Moving Defendant
learned that Munoz’s law license is suspended and that Munoz does not maintain
an office at the address that the Complaint was mailed to.  (See Declaration of Scott A. Miller
(“Miller Decl.”) ¶¶ 5-6, Exhibit C.) 
Munoz did not inform Moving Defendant of his 2014 disbarment or his
abandonment of the representation.  (See
Supp. Paziouros Decl. ¶ 2.) 
Paziouros visited Munoz’s listed business address on July 13, 2023 and
spoke to the current tenant, who informed him that Munoz had not been a tenant
at the address for at least seven years. 
(See Paziouros Decl. ¶¶ 2-3, Exhibit A.)  
 
The Court finds that Moving Defendant has
demonstrated that it did not have actual notice of the existence of the
Complaint before May 2023.  There is no
evidence that Moving Defendant was aware that Munoz was no longer serving as
its registered agent or that the unknown individual who accepted service on
June 10, 2022 informed Moving Defendant of the service.  The Court therefore GRANTS the Motion in its
entirety. 
 
            Moving party is ordered
to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed
by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
                                                                                      
Dated this 18th day of September 2023
 



 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



 
 
 


