 Case Number:  23AHCV00952    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE] ORDER FINDING
DEFENDANT PRAPATSORN GROUP, INC.’S MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO
REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION MOOT, AND DENYING SANCTIONS                          I.         
INTRODUCTION
On April 28, 2023, Plaintiff Perla Mageno (“Plaintiff”) filed this
action against Defendant Prapatsorn Group, Inc. (“Defendant”) for violations of
the Unruh Civil Rights Act, California Civil Code § 51.
On August 14, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion to compel Plaintiff’s
further responses to requests for admission. On September 6, 2024, Plaintiff
opposed the motion, and on September 12, 2024, Defendant replied.
                       
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
            Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2033.290 subdivision (a), parties may move for a further response to
requests for admission where an answer to the requests are evasive or
incomplete or where an objection is without merit or too general.
            Notice of the motion must be given
within 45 days of service of the verified response, otherwise, the propounding
party waives any right to compel a further response. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290,
subd. (c).)  The motion must also be
accompanied by a meet and confer declaration. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290,
subd. (b).)  
            Finally, Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1345 requires that all motions or responses involving further discovery
contain a separate statement with the text of each request, the response, and a
statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling further responses. (Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345, subd. (a)(3)).
            Where the court grants a motion to
compel further responses, sanctions shall be imposed against the party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel, unless the party acted with
substantial justification or the sanction would otherwise be unjust. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.290, subd. (d).)  
                    
III.         
ANALYSIS
Plaintiff has now provided supplemental responses to the discovery
at issue and Defendant does not dispute this. Thus, the motion is MOOT.
As to sanctions, Plaintiff argues that they are not warranted
because Defendant did not meet and confer in good faith. Plaintiff contends
that the meet and confer email as to the June 28, 2024 responses was lacking
sufficient detail as the code requires an informal resolution as to each issue
presented by the motion. The Court agrees that the single email is insufficient
to show a good faith meet and confer attempt. The email is vague, general, and
does not refer to any specific requests or responses. Further, counsel states
that they are in trial and cannot elaborate any further because of time
constraints. Counsel states that they will give Plaintiff additional time to
respond, but a motion will be filed if a commitment is not made to provide
non-evasive responses. (Sahelian Decl., ¶10, Exh. F.) The email does not
present enough detail to allow Plaintiff to respond, and Defendant did not
follow up to elaborate on what they found deficient and did not attempt to
schedule a telephonic meet and confer. Accordingly, this does not satisfy the
meet and confer requirement, and Plaintiff’s conduct does not appear
sanctionable, especially since once the motion was filed, which provided
sufficient detail regarding the deficiencies, Plaintiff provided responses. The
Court also notes that Defendant’s reply only addresses the meet and confer
attempts prior to the June 28, 2024 supplemental responses, which are the ones
at issue. 
                    
IV.         
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
The Court finds the motion MOOT and denies Defendant’s request for
sanctions. 
Moving Party is ordered to provide notice of this ruling.
 
  Dated: September 19, 2024 JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
 
