  Case Number:  22AHCV01198    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  P [TENANTIVE] ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S
MOTION FOR NEW TRIAL       I.         
INTRODUCTION
On
December 1, 2022, Plaintiff Franses Rodriguez (“Plaintiff”) filed this lawsuit
against Defendant the City of Pasadena (“Defendant”), asserting a single cause
of action for Dangerous Condition of Public Property, under Government Code §
835. Plaintiff alleges that on November 15, 2021, around 8:30 a.m., she was riding
her Ninebot Kick electric scooter (the “e-scooter”) and wearing a helmet, when
she encountered a 1.25-inch uneven section of the Marengo Avenue roadway in Pasadena,
CA causing her to lose control of the e-scooter and sustain injuries. 
Procedural
History
On
July 11, 2024, the Court granted Defendant’s motion for summary judgment.  
On
July 18, 2024, the Court entered judgment in Defendant’s favor.  
On
July 24, 2024, Defendant filed and served Notice of Entry of Judgment.
On
August 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Intent to Move for New Trial.  
On
August 12, 2024, Plaintiff filed her Motion for New Trial.
On
August 26, 2024, Defendant filed its opposition to the Motion for New Trial.
On
September 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply to Defendant’s Motion for New Trial.
 
    II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
The determination of a motion for new
trial rests so completely within the trial judge’s discretion that it will not
be disturbed on appeal unless a manifest and unmistakable abuse of discretion
clearly appears.  (Schelbaurer v
Butler Mfg. Co (1984) 35 Cal3d 442, 452.) 
The rationale is that the trial judge is familiar with the evidence,
witnesses and proceedings of the case and is in the best position to determine
whether a new trial should be granted.  (Jacoby
v Feldman (1978) 81 Cal App 3d 432, 446.) 

      A
motion for new trial asks the trial court to reexamine one or more issues of
fact or law after a trial and decision by judge or jury.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§656, 657.)  Since the right to a new trial is purely
statutory, exact compliance is required with the procedural steps for making
and determining a motion for new trial. 
Any significant departure from the procedural requirements deprives the
trial court of power to grant the motion. 
The grounds for new trial are also entirely statutory and, thus, the
motion must be based on one or more of the following statutory grounds:
      (1)
Irregularity in the proceedings (Code Civ. Proc., §657, subd. (1)):
Irregularity in the proceedings of the court, jury or adverse party (i.e.,
attorney misconduct), or any other order of the court or abuse of discretion by
which either party was prevented from having a fair trial.
      (2)
Jury Misconduct (Code Civ. Proc., §657, subd. (2)): Jury misconduct during
trial, misconduct during deliberations, or concealed bias on voir dire.
      (3)
Accident or Surprise (Code Civ. Proc., §657, subd. (3)): The moving party has
to show three conditions: (a) an accident or surprise happened during the trial
(i.e., something unforeseen); (b) which had a material adverse effect on the
moving party’s case (i.e., prejudice); and (c) it could not have been guarded
against or prevented through reasonable diligence by the moving party (this is
the reason most motions are denied on this ground).  An accident or surprise must be shown, not
merely a mistake or inadvertence and relief must be sought during trial.
      (4)
Newly-Discovered Evidence (Code Civ. Proc., §657, subd. (4)): There are three
stringent requirements: (a) newly-discovered evidence; (b) material to the
outcome of the case; and (c) reasonable diligence to discover and produce the
evidence at trial (lack of such diligence is the most common reason for denying
the motion on this ground). 
      (5)
Excessive or Inadequate Damages (Code Civ. Proc., §657, subd. (5)): This ground
in effect asks for a limited new trial to the issue of damages.  In deciding the motion for new trial on this
ground, the trial court has the power and responsibility to reweigh the
evidence.  “A new trial shall not be
granted upon the ground of excessive or inadequate damages, unless after
weighing the evidence the court is convinced from the entire record, including
reasonable inferences therefrom, that the court or jury clearly should have
reached a different verdict or decision.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., §657.)  The judge
is not permitted to substitute her/his judgment for that of the jury on the
question of damages unless it appears from the record that the jury verdict was
improper.  (The plaintiff can also
consent to a reduction of damages in an amount determined by the court (a
remittitur) in lieu of a new trial.  (Code
Civ. Proc., §662.5, subd. (b).)
(6) Insufficient Evidence (Code Civ. Proc.,
§657, subd. (6)): This is one of the most frequent grounds for new trial
motions and is also one as to which the trial judge has the broadest
power.  It is the trial judge’s
responsibility to determine the weight of the evidence.  A new trial must be granted if the judge
believes the weight of the evidence to be contrary to the finding of the jury.
(7) Verdict or Decision “Against Law” (Code
Civ. Proc., §657, subd. (6)): Given the restrictive interpretation of this
ground, it is not widely used and is limited principally to the following
situations: (a) verdict unsupported by evidence; (b) verdict contrary to
instructions; (c) verdict or findings hopelessly uncertain or inconsistent; or
(d) incomplete statement of decision. 
This “against law” ground differs from the “insufficiency of the
evidence” ground discussed above in that there is no weighing of evidence or
determining credibility - i.e., this ground applies only where the evidence is
without conflict in any material point and insufficient as a matter of law to
support the verdict.  Further, as
compared to the “error in law excepted to at trial” ground, this ground applies
only where Code of Civil Procedure section 657, subdivision (7) does not.
      (8)
Error in Law During Trial (Code Civ. Proc., §657, subd. (7)): “Error in law,
occurring at the trial and excepted to by the party making the
application.”  The error must have been
prejudicial - i.e., the error must likely have affected the outcome of the
trial.  The error must also have been
excepted to - i.e., timely raised during trial by motion or objection.
      A
motion for new trial “made for a cause mentioned on the first, second, third
and fourth subdivisions of Section 657, it must be made upon affidavits;
otherwise, it must be made on the minutes of the court.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §658.)  Thus, a motion for new trial based on
irregularity in the proceedings, misconduct of the jury, accident or surprise
or newly discovered evidence must be supported by affidavits.  Other motions based on insufficiency of the
evidence, a verdict or decision against law, an error in law or excessive or
inadequate damages must be made on the minutes of the court.  It is “implicit in the statement of the
grounds of the motion whether it will be made upon affidavits or the minutes of
the court, or both.”  (Nichols v. Hast
(1965) 62 Cal.2d 598, 601.)   
      “An
order granting summary judgment is properly challenged by a motion for a new
trial. This is so, even though, strictly speaking, summary judgment is a
determination that there shall be no trial at all.  A new trial may be granted under section 657,
subdivision 7, if the original ruling was erroneous as a matter of law.”  (Brewer v. Remington (2020) 46
Cal.App.5th 14, 23.)  
 
 III.         
DISCUSSION
            A. Procedural
Issues
            Plaintiff filed a Notice of Intent
to Move for New Trial on August 2, 2024, 15 days after Notice of Entry of
Judgment was filed and served on July 18, 2024. 
The Notice of Intent is therefore timely under Code of Civil Procedure
section 657.
            Plaintiff filed her memorandum of
points and authorities on August 12, 2024, within 10 days of filing of the
Notice of Intent to Move for New Trial. 
Plaintiff’s supporting memorandum was timely filed under California Rules
of Court, Rule 3.1600(a).  
            “Except as otherwise provided in
Section 12a of this code, the power of the court to rule on a motion for a new
trial shall expire 75 days after the mailing of notice of entry of judgment by
the clerk of the court pursuant to Section 664.5 or 75 days after service on
the moving party by any party of written notice of entry of judgment, whichever
is earlier, or if that notice has not been given, 75 days after the filing
of the first notice of intention to move for a new trial. If the motion is not
determined within the 75-day period, or within that period as extended, the
effect shall be a denial of the motion without further order of the court.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §660, subd. (c).)  
            According to Plaintiff, the 75-day
deadline to rule on the motion expires on October 2, 2024.  However, based on the Court’s calculation,
the deadline to rule will expire on October 1, 2024.  The clerk mailed Notice of Entry of Judgment
on July 18, 2024.  Defendant mailed
Notice of Entry of Judgment on July 19, 2024. 
The earlier of these two dates started the 75-day period, which would be
July 18, 2024.  The deadline for the
Court to rule on this Motion for New Trial is therefore October 1, 2024.  
            B.  Plaintiff fails to submit affidavits in
support of a Motion for New Trial under Code of Civil Procedure section 657,
subdivisions (1), (3) and (4)
            In her Notice of Intent to Move for
New Trial, Plaintiff identifies Code of Civil Procedure section 657,
subdivisions (1), (3) and (4) as grounds for new trial.  Code of Civil Procedure section 657,
subdivision (1) allows for new trial based on “irregularity in the proceedings
of the court…or adverse party, or any order of the court or abuse of discretion
by which either party was prevented from having a fair trial.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §657, subd. (1).)  Code of Civil Procedure section 657,
subdivision (3) allows for new trial based on “accident or surprise, which
ordinary prudence could not have guarded against.”  (Code Civ. Proc. §657, subd. (3).)  Code of Civil Procedure section 657, subd. (4)
allows for new trial based on “newly discovered evidence, material to the
moving party, which could not, with reasonable diligence, have been discovered
and produced at trial.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§657, subd. (4).)  
            Each of these grounds must be
supported by affidavits or declarations. 
“When the application is made for a cause mentioned in the first,
second, third and fourth subdivisions of Section 657, it must be made upon
affidavits….”  (Code of Civ. Proc. §657.)  A motion for new trial “on grounds enumerated
in the first four subdivisions of section 657 must be presented solely by
affidavit.”  (Linhart v. Nelson (1976)
18 Cal.3d 641, 645.)  
            Plaintiff failed to submit any
affidavits in support of his motion for new trial and relies solely on the
minute order of the Court and the evidence submitted in connection with the
motion for summary judgment.  Plaintiff’s
motion for new trial based on Code of Civil Procedure section 657, subdivision (1),
(3) and (4) is therefore denied. 
            C.  Plaintiff fails to establish that a new trial
should be granted as to the motion for summary judgment based on insufficiency
of the evidence or error in the law
             Plaintiff argues the order granting
summary judgment (1) failed to comply with the requirement under Code of Civil Procedure
section 437c, subdivision (g) that the order “specifically refer to the
evidence proffered in support of and, if applicable, in opposition to the
motion that indicates no triable issue exists”;  and (2) failed to mention Plaintiff’s evidence
that the defect was a dangerous condition and that Defendant had actual or
constructive notice, nor did the Court explain why this evidence did not create
a triable issue of material fact.  
            Defendant denies that the Court’s
July 11, 2024 order fails to comply with subsection (g). Defendant argues the
July 11, 2024 order specifically references Plaintiff’s evidence in support of
a dangerous condition and explained why it did not raise a triable issue of
fact.  Defendant argues the Court
provided a thorough explanation as to why the defect was trivial as a matter of
law.  
            Plaintiff fails to establish that
the July 11, 2024 Order was based on insufficient evidence or an error in the
law.  Plaintiff’s motion is based on an
alleged failure to satisfy a procedural requirement under subsection (g).  In pertinent part, subsection (g) provides, “Upon
the grant of a motion for summary judgment on the ground that there is no
triable issue of material fact, the court shall, by written or oral order,
specify the reasons for its determination. The order shall specifically refer
to the evidence proffered in support of and, if applicable, in opposition to
the motion that indicates no triable issue exists. The court shall also state
its reasons for any other determination. The court shall record its
determination by court reporter or written order.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §437c, subd. (g).)
            Plaintiff fails to cite any
authority holding that a new trial should be granted based on failure to
satisfy the procedural requirements of subsection (g).  Failure to satisfy the requirements of subsection
(g) is not automatic grounds for reversal: 
“It is the validity of the ruling which is reviewable and not the
reasons therefor.”  (Santa Barbara
Pistachio Ranch v. Chowchilla Water Dist. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th
439, 448-449.)  “The lack of a statement
of reasons presents no harm where our independent review establishes the
validity of the judgment.”  (Id.
at 449 (failure to satisfy subsection (g)’s requirements was not harmless error
where trial court gave no reasons at all for order denying and granting in part
parties’ respective motions for summary judgment; appellate court precluded
from undertaking meaningful review of issues given trial court’s complete
failure to provide statement of reasons for order).)
            Even if the failure to satisfy subsection
(g) were qualified as insufficient evidence or an error in the law, the July
11, 2024 Order fully satisfies the requirements under subsection (g).  A “key objective” of subsection (g) is to
ensure that a court’s order include a statement of reasons adequate for
“meaningful appellate review.”  (W.F.
Hayward Co. v. Transamerica Ins. Co. 1993) 16 Cal.App.4th 1101,
1111.)  For the reasons stated below, the
July 11, 2024 Order provides an adequate statement of reasons for meaningful
appellate review.
            The minute order was 12
single-spaced pages and the Court discussed in detail Plaintiff’s evidence in
opposition to the Motion for Summary Judgment. 
Summary judgment was based on the Court’s finding that the defect was
trivial as a matter of law.  The Court
discussed Plaintiff’s evidence pertinent to the issue of triviality at
length.  The Court cited Plaintiff’s
evidence regarding the size of the defect and how the defect was caused,
including her expert’s testimony and her deposition testimony.  (July 11, 2024 Minute Order, p. 8 of
12.)  The Court also discussed
Plaintiff’s photographs of the defect and the conditions of the area on the day
of the accident, citing to Plaintiff’s deposition.  (Id. at p. 9.)  
            The Court also listed Plaintiff’s
evidence, including her reference to industry standards.  (July 11, 2024 Minute Order, p. 2.)  The Court stated, “After examining all the
evidence, the Court finds the displacement in question to be trivial as a
matter of law.”  (Id. at p. 8.)  This statement makes it sufficiently clear
that the Court found the defect trivial as a matter of law after review of
Plaintiff’s evidence, including the industry standards cited by her, and
resolved any issues raised by the industry standards against her.  (Goldrich v. Natural Y Surgical
Specialties, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 772, 782 (trial court's statement
that it was “relying on all of the evidence makes it clear that it
concluded…that the statute of limitations problem must be resolved against”
plaintiff as an issue of law on summary judgment; statement therefore satisfied
CCP §437c(g)’s requirements).)  
            The Court explained in detail, based
on Plaintiff’s and Defendant’s evidence, its finding that the defect was
trivial as a matter of law.  There is no
requirement under subsection (g) that the Court address each piece of evidence
submitted in opposition to the motion for summary judgment.  The Court specified the reasons for its
determination and referenced the evidence submitted by Plaintiff indicating
that “no triable issue exists.”  The
Court discussed all evidence it found applicable to its finding that the defect
was trivial as a matter of law.  
            Plaintiff argues the Court
misconstrued her argument regarding why the 1.25-inch defect was not
trivial.  However, misinterpretation of
an argument raised in Plaintiff’s opposition is not an error in the law or
insufficiency of evidence in support of the order.  The Court also disagrees that it
misunderstood the argument.  The Court
simply found the argument unconvincing.  
            With regard to Plaintiff’s claim
that the Court failed to address her evidence of actual or constructive notice,
actual or constructive notice is immaterial to the issue of triviality.  The Court’s discussion of the City’s actual
or constructive notice was merely an alternate grounds to grant relief.  Any defect therein was not prejudicial.  A new trial cannot be granted for error of
law unless the error was prejudicial (see Cal.Const. Art. VI, § 13.  The error must likely have affected the
outcome of the trial: “If it clearly appears that the error could not have
affected the result of the trial, the court is bound to deny the motion.”  (Bristow v. Ferguson (1981) 121 Cal.App.3d
823, 826.)  
            Plaintiff fails to establish that
the July 11, 2024 order was based on an error in law or was supported by
insufficient evidence.  Plaintiff’s
Motion for New Trial based on CCP §657(6) and (7) is denied.      
 
            CONCLUSION
AND ORDER 
            Plaintiff’s Motion for New Trial is
DENIED. 
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of
this order.
DATED:  September 19, 2024                                                                                                                                                     JARED D. MOSES
   JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT