 Case Number:  23AHCV02957    Hearing Date:   September 19, 2024    Dept:  P [Tentative]
Order on Demurrer with Motion to Strike.         INTRODUCTION
          On December 21, 2023, Plaintiff
Arianna Hertel (Plaintiff) filed suit against Allen Avenue Square North HOA
(HOA), Professional Plumbing Services, Inc. (Plumbing), and Pasadena
Condominium Management LLC (Management). Several months later she filed the
operative first amended complaint alleging five claims for breach of contract,
negligence, conversion[1], unjust
enrichment[2],
and fraudulent misrepresentation[3]. 
          Plaintiff alleged she is a resident at
125 N. Allen Avenue, Unit 116, Pasadena CA 91106 (subject property). After
experiencing a plumbing issue at the subject property on August 21, 2023, HOA
and Management (collectively defendants) called Plumbing to repair the subject
property. However, Plumbing negligently tore out drywall and plaster without
testing it; the material all contained asbestos, thereby contaminating Plaintiff’s
residence. Plaintiff reported the issue to Defendants, but they refused to act,
including declining to file a claim with their insurance carrier. Plaintiff had
to file a claim on her individual insurance and retain vendors to address the
asbestos abatement. She subsequently filed a third-party claim with Defendants’
carrier—Nationwide Insurance (Nationwide). 
          Plaintiff further alleges while her
vendors were engaged in abating the asbestos, Defendants requested access to
the subject property to purportedly “assess” the damages to the “common areas”.
However, they misrepresented their purpose and requested access to obtain an
estimate for repairs to Plaintiff’s residence. Nationwide, thereafter, provided
reimbursement to Defendants for damages to Plaintiff’s residence—including
flooring, cabinets, countertops etc.—but Defendants refused to transfer the
funds to her. Instead, they maintain that they will conduct the repairs
themselves. 
          Defendants demur to the third cause of
action for conversion and the fifth cause of action for fraudulent
misrepresentation. Defendants also move to strike punitive damages allegations
and prayer. (FAC, ¶¶37, 45, 54; prayer, ¶6.)
 
III.     LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states
a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747
(Hahn).) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and
in context. (See Schultz v. Harney (1994) 27 Cal.App.4th 1611, 1622, as
modified on denial of reh’g (Sept. 29, 1994).) The court “take[s] as true all
properly pleaded material facts, but not conclusions of fact or law asserted in
the complaint.” (Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905,
916.)
At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate
facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim
against them. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal.App.3d 714, 721.) “The
allegations of the pleading demurred to must be regarded as true.” (South
Shore Land Co. v. Peterson (1964) 266 Cal.App.2d 725, 732.) A “demurrer
does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law
alleged in the pleading, or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts
impossible in law.” (Ibid. [internal citations omitted].)
The court may strike out any “irrelevant, false, or improper
matter inserted in any pleading.” (Code Civ. Proc., §437) Motions may also
target pleadings or parts of pleadings that are not filed or drawn in
conformity with applicable laws, rules, or orders. (Code Civ. Proc., §437
subd., (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the
pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., §437.) “When the
defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should
allow leave to amend.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.)
Punitive damages are available in non-contract actions where
a defendant is guilty of malice, fraud, or oppression. (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (c) [defining each term].) To succeed on a motion to strike punitive
damages allegations, it must be said as a matter of law that the alleged
behavior was not so vile, base, or contemptible that it would not be looked
down upon and despised by ordinary decent people. (Angie M. v. Superior
Court (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 1217, 1228-1229.) 
IV.     ANALYSIS
A.    Meet
and Confer
In support of the demurrer with a
motion to strike, Defendants submit the declaration of defense counsel Lisa
Shyner. Counsel declares that on May 8, 2024, she spoke telephonically with opposing
counsel. This declaration is sufficient under Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41.
B.    Conversion
Conversion is “the wrongful exercise of dominion over the
property of another.” (Lee v. Hanley, (2015) 61 Cal. 4th 1225
[quotations omitted].) To establish a claim for conversion, a plaintiff must
plead: “(1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of the property;
(2) the defendant’s conversion by a wrongful act or disposition of property
rights; and (3) damages.” (Ibid. [quotations omitted].)
Here, Plaintiff alleged she has an ownership right to any monies
Nationwide paid to Defendants, Defendants refused to pay Plaintiff the monies
issued by Nationwide, and she is damaged from being denied those monies. With
respect to her ownership interest, Plaintiff alleges that she filed a
third-party claim with Nationwide and that Defendants improperly circumvented
her claim to obtain payment from Nationwide directly for repair work it has not
done. (See FAC, ¶13.) Defendants argue, without any authority, that Plaintiff
had no ownership rights to the funds at issue. Their argument is deficient as
the court cannot ascertain whether they are raising a legal argument (that Plaintiff
could never be entitled to this type of fund under the law) or a factual
argument (that Plaintiff cannot prove she has any ownership right). If the latter,
then Defendants would be disputing the factual underpinnings of the right to
the sum which would not be a basis for a demurrer. If the former, then they
cite no authority for the proposition that Plaintiff could not obtain any money
from Nationwide.  
By analogy, many automobile insurance policies allow a third party
to file a claim directly with the insurer for damage to their vehicle caused by
the insured.  In such an instance, the third
party is the claimant, not the insured. 
Were the insurance company to pay the claim to the insured, who then
refused to turn the proceeds over to the claimant, the law would seem to
support a conversion claim.
The demurrer to the third cause of action is overruled. 
C.    Fraudulent
Misrepresentation
“The elements of fraud, which give rise to the tort action
for deceit, are (a) misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or
nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or ‘scienter’); (c) intent to
defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting
damage.” (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal. 4th 631, 638.) “[F]raud
must be pled specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice. .
. .This particularity requirement necessitates pleading facts which show how,
when, where, to whom, and by what means the representations were tendered.” (Id.
at p. 645 [internal quotation marks and ellipses omitted].)
          Here, Plaintiff has not sufficiently
alleged a claim for fraudulent misrepresentation. She alleges defendant
represented to her that they “needed to access her unit” to “assess” damages to
the “common areas.”  She further alleges
the representations were false at the time they were made and the request was
actually so Nationwide could assess damage to Plaintiff’s residence on Defendants’
behalf. Defendants did this to obtain an insurance payment which included
reimbursement for Plaintiff’s residence and the common areas. Plaintiff alleges
that defendants then wrongfully obtained monies which were due to her for
repairs to her home. Plaintiff does not allege who made the representations and
what authority that person had to make representation on behalf of Defendants.
She also does not allege whether the representations were oral or written. This
is insufficient. Fraud must be pled with particularity and Plaintiff’s current
allegations are deficient. 
          The demurrer to this cause of action
is sustained with leave to amend. 
D.    Motion
to Strike Punitive Damages
Defendants move to strike the
punitive damages allegations with respect to the claim for conversion (FAC,
¶37), unjust enrichment (FAC, ¶45), fraudulent misrepresentation (FAC, ¶54) and
the prayer for punitive damages. 
With respect to paragraph 54, the
motion to strike is denied as moot based on the court’s ruling on the demurrer.

With respect to paragraphs 37 and 45
and the prayer for punitive damages, the Court agrees with Defendants that the
allegations are insufficient. For unjust enrichment, Plaintiff alleges that Defendants,
through their misstatements, were unjustly enriched because they received a
significant monetary gain and benefit from Plaintiff at Plaintiff’s expenses. With
respect to conversion, Plaintiff alleges Defendants wrongfully obtained monies
due to her from her third-party claim with Nationwide. However, Plaintiff does
not allege any conduct which falls within the definition of malice fraud or
oppression; she has alleged two torts, but nothing going beyond the scope of
the claims. (See Civ. Code, §3294.) The mere allegation that an intentional
tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages. (Grieves
v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157 Cal. App. 3d 159, 166.) 
As Plaintiff has not alleged
grounds for punitive damages, the motion to strike paragraphs 37 and 45 and the
prayer for punitive damages is granted. 
V.      CONCLUSION AND ORDER
          The demurrer to the third
cause of action for conversion is overruled. 
The demurrer to the fifth cause of action for fraudulent
misrepresentation is sustained with leave to amend. Plaintiff has twenty days
leave to amend upon notice of this ruling.  The second amended complaint should also
correct the drafting errors discussed in the footnotes above.
          The motion to strike is
granted in part and denied in part. The motion to strike paragraph 54 is denied
as moot. The motion to strike paragraphs 37, and 45, and the prayer for
punitive damages is granted.
          Moving party is ordered to
give notice. 
          
Dated:
September 19, 2024
 
                                                                     
                                                                                   JARED D. MOSES   JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                     


