

Hearing Date:             December
9, 2024
Case Name:                Hernandez v. 99 Cents Only Stores, LLC
Case No.:                    20STCV15446
Motion:                       Motion
to be Relieved as Counsel 
Moving Party:             Counsel for Plaintiff Dalia Hernandez

Opposing Party:          None

Tentative Ruling:      The Motion to be Relieved as Counsel is granted.          

             
            This is a FEHA discrimination case. 
 
             Plaintiff’s counsel – Jacob Nalbandyan and Tannaz Ghayadi – seeks to be relieved as counsel of record. Defendant filed a non-opposition
to the motion.
            The motion to be
relieved as counsel is granted.    
 
Discussion
 
            An attorney is entitled to withdraw
upon the consent of the client, or without that consent if approved by the
court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 284; Ramirez v. Sturdevant (1994) 21
Cal.App.4th 904, 915.) In the latter case, counsel must make a motion to be
relieved as attorney of record.  The
motion must be made using mandatory forms: Notice of Motion and Motion to be
Relieved as Counsel – Civil (MC-051), Declaration (MC-052), and Proposed Order
(MC-053). (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (a), (b), (e).) 
 
            The declaration accompanying the
motion to be relieved as counsel must state “in general terms and without
compromising the confidentiality of the attorney-client relationship why a
motion under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(2) is brought instead of
filing a consent under Code of Civil Procedure section 284(1).” (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (b).)
 
            The notice to the client must be
done by personal service, electronically, or mail. If it is done via mail under
Code of Civil Procedure section 1013, it must be accompanied by a declaration
confirming the service address to be the most current residence or that it is
the client’s last known address, and the attorney has been unable to locate a
more current address. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (d)(1)(A)-(B).) 
 
            Here, Attorney Ghayadi has complied with the Rules of Court by filing all the appropriate
forms (MC-051, MC-052, and MC-053). He has also submitted a supporting
declaration providing an adequate explanation for why he is moving to be
relieved as counsel; he asserts that he has lost contact with Plaintiff.
 
Further,
Form MC-052 indicates that notice was provided to Plaintiff via mail.
Plaintiff’s counsel admits that he has been unable to confirm Plaintiff’s last
known address, but Plaintiff had indicated an desire to dismiss this action such
that this motion to be relieved should still be granted. 
 
Additionally,
trial in this matter has not been set, and the next hearing is a Non-Appearance
Case Review, set for December 23, 2024. Thus, no prejudice will result from
granting this motion where there is adequate time to retain new counsel. 
 
The Court
will grant the motion to be relieved as counsel.  
 
 