  Case Number:  24STCV19102    Hearing Date:   October 29, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Tuesday, October 29, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   24STCV19102
CASE NAME:                        Evan Andrew Sheedy vs. Lari Gershwin, LLC, et al. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants CPMC Inc. dba
Westhome (erroneously sued and named as West Home, a Property Management Co.
dba VIVE LA); and Lari Gershwin LLC
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Evan Andrew Sheedy
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer with Motion to
Strike
OPPOSITION:                        16 October 2024
REPLY:                                  21
October 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Defendants’
demurrer to the third cause of action is sustained with leave to amend and
overruled as to the fourth and fifth causes of action. Defendants’ motion to
strike is granted as to the request to strike punitive damages but denied as to
the request to strike the request for attorney’s fees. Plaintiff is granted 10 days
leave to amend. The court sets a Non-Appearance OSC RE: Amended Complaint for November
19, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.. Defendant to give notice.

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On July 31, 2024, Even
Andrew Sheedy (“Plaintiff”) filed a Complaint against Lari Gershwin, LLC;
Westhome dba Vive LA (collectively “Defendants”); and Does 1 to 10. The
Complaint alleges six causes of action:
 
1)    
Breach of Contract;
2)    
Negligence; 
3)    
Breach of Civ. Code § 1942.4;
4)    
Violation of Civ. Code § 1942.5;
5)    
Violation of Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance (TAHO); and 
6)    
Constructive Eviction. 
 
Defendants now demurrer
to the third, fourth, and fifth causes of action. Plaintiff opposes the Motion.
The matter is now before the court. 
 
LEGAL STANDARDS
A.        Demurrer 
 
A demurrer is an
objection to a pleading, the grounds for which are apparent from either the
face of the complaint or a matter of which the court may take judicial notice.
(CCP, § 430.30, subd. (a); see also Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d
311, 318.)¿“To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts
sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might
eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.”¿(C.A. v.
William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.)¿For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the
demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded.¿ (Aubry v.
Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.)¿A demurrer “does
not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.”¿(Daar v.
Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)¿¿ 
 
B.        Motion to Strike 
 
¿Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading
may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof.
(CCP, § 435(b)(1); CRC, rule 3.1322(b).) The court may, upon a motion or at any
time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any
irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike
out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (CCP, § 436(a)-(b);
Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading
which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are
surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].)¿¿¿¿ 
 
C.        Leave to Amend 
 
“Where the defect raised by a motion to strike or by demurrer
is reasonably capable of cure, leave to amend is routinely and liberally
granted to give the plaintiff a chance to cure the defect in question.” (CLD
Construction, Inc. v. City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1146.)
The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be
amended successfully. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿¿¿ 
 
Demurrer[1]
 
I.         Discussion
A.        Factual Summary
 
Plaintiff was a tenant of a
unit located in the Subject Property located in Los Angeles, CA since December
24, 2014. (Compl., ¶¶ 1, 11.) Plaintiff alleges that since he moved into the
unity, he experienced the following issues: mold due to leaking of the HVAC
unit, “an infestation of bugs, larva, eggs, and bug droppings”, a cockroach
infestation, and “strong urine and feces smell in his bathroom was caused by
the bats.” (Id., ¶¶ 11-41.) 
 
In October 2023, Plaintiff
filed a complaint with the County of Los Angeles, Department of Public Health.
(Compl., ¶ 40.) In December 2023, Plaintiff emailed Defendants asking for a
second time to be moved to another unit, but the request was denied. (Id.,
¶ 48.) Sometime after January 1, 2024, Plaintiff met with the Los Angeles
County health inspector, who documented the bat feces in the unit. (Id.,
¶ 51.) Plaintiff alleges that he continued to find bat droppings and the
cockroach infestation remained unresolved. (Id., ¶¶ 51-55.) 
 
On March 10, 2024, Plaintiff
was served with an unlawful detainer complaint which was dismissed prior to
trial or resolution in early June 2024. (Compl., ¶ 56.) On July 31, 2024,
Plaintiff filed this action. Defendant now demurs to the third, fourth, and
fifth causes of action. 
 
B.        Third Cause of Action – Breach of Civ.
Code § 1942.4
 
Civil Code § 1942.4 provides,
in relevant part, that a landlord may not collect rent, increase a tenant’s
rent, or issue a three day notice to pay rent or quit if (i) the subject
dwelling lacks any of the affirmative characteristics listed in Civil Code § 1941.1
or is declared substandard under and pursuant to Health & Safety Code § 17920.3
because conditions listed in that section exist to an extent that endangers the
life, limb, health, property, safety, or welfare of the public or the occupants
of the building; (ii) a public officer has notified the landlord of his or her
obligation to abate or repair the substandard conditions; (iii) the subject
defects have not been abated within 35 days; (iv) the delay is without good
cause; and (v) the subject defects were not the fault of the tenant. 
 
Defendant argues that the third
cause of action fails because the Complaint does not allege that Defendant was
cited and received written notice of the substandard conditions Plaintiff complains
of.
 
(a) A landlord of a dwelling may not demand rent,
collect rent, issue a notice of a rent increase, or issue a three-day notice to
pay rent or quit pursuant to subdivision (2) of Section 1161 of the Code of
Civil Procedure, if all of the following conditions exist prior to the
landlord’s demand or notice:
 
[ . . . ]
 
(2) A public officer or employee who is responsible for
the enforcement of any housing law, after inspecting the premises, has notified
the landlord or the landlord’s agent in writing of his or her obligations to
abate the nuisance or repair the substandard conditions.
(3) The conditions have existed and have not been
abated 35 days beyond the date of service of the notice specified in paragraph
(2) and the delay is without good cause. For purposes of this subdivision,
service shall be complete at the time of deposit in the United States mail.
 
(Civ. Code, § 1942.4 [emphasis
added].)
 
The Complaint states that
Plaintiff complained to the County of Los Angeles, Department of Public Health in
October 2023 and that an inspector came to inspect the unit sometime after
January 1, 2024.  There are no
allegations, however, that a County inspector issued a written citation or
notice to Defendants about the substandard conditions and that 35 days from the
date of service of the notice, Defendants failed to abate the conditions.
(Compl., ¶¶ 40, 50.) 
 
Moreover, the Complaint alleges
that the County inspector only documented the bat feces not that the unit
“substantially lacks any of the affirmative standard characteristics listed in
Section 1941.1 or violates Section 17920.10 of the Health and Safety Code, or
is deemed and declared substandard as set forth in Section 17920.3 of the
Health and Safety Code because conditions listed in that section exist to an
extent that endangers the life, limb, health, property, safety, or welfare of
the public or the occupants of the dwelling.” (Id., ¶ 50; Civ. Code, §
1942.4.) The Complaint is silent as to what the County’s notice to Defendants
stated and if the inspector did in fact find that conditions at the unit were
substandard. 
 
Accordingly, the demurrer to
the third cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
C.        Fourth Cause of Action – Breach of Civ.
Code § 1942.5
 
Civil Code § 1952.5 is an
anti-retaliatory eviction statute and states in the relevant party: 
 
(a) If the lessor retaliates against the lessee because
of the exercise by the lessee of the lessee’s rights under this chapter or
because of the lessee’s complaint to an appropriate agency as to tenantability
of a dwelling, and if the lessee of a dwelling is not in default as to the
payment of rent, the lessor may not recover possession of a dwelling in any
action or proceeding, cause the lessee to quit involuntarily, increase the
rent, or decrease any services within 180 days of any of the following:
 
(1) After the date upon which the lessee, in good
faith, has given notice pursuant to Section 1942, has provided notice of a
suspected bed bug infestation, or has made an oral complaint to the lessor
regarding tenantability.
 
(2) After the date upon which the lessee, in good
faith, has filed a written complaint, or an oral complaint which is registered
or otherwise recorded in writing, with an appropriate agency, of which the
lessor has notice, for the purpose of obtaining correction of a condition
relating to tenantability.
(3) After the date of an inspection or issuance of a
citation, resulting from a complaint described in paragraph (2) of which the
lessor did not have notice.
 
(4) After the filing of appropriate documents
commencing a judicial or arbitration proceeding involving the issue of
tenantability.
 
(5) After entry of judgment or the signing of an
arbitration award, if any, when in the judicial proceeding or arbitration the
issue of tenantability is determined adversely to the lessor.
 
Defendant asserts that the fourth cause of action is
insufficiently pled because Plaintiff did not allege that Defendants retaliated
against Plaintiff due to Plaintiff exercising his rights under section
1942.5(a) or to an agency regarding the tenability of the unit. 
 
“We therefore hold that under Civil Code section 1942.5, a
tenant, who is not in default in the payment of rent, may invoke the defense of
retaliatory eviction, upon proof that he has made an oral complaint to the
landlord regarding the tenantability of the premises.” (Kemp v. Schultz
(1981) 121 Cal.App.3d Supp. 13, 18.) Here, the Complaint alleges that in
October 2023 and January 2024, Plaintiff made complaints about the unit to the
county health inspector. (Compl., ¶¶ 40 50.) The Complaint also alleges that
Defendants were notified by Plaintiff about the mold, bug infestation, and the
bats feces. (Id., ¶¶ 11-41.) Subsequently, on March 10, 2024, Plaintiff
was served with an Unlawful Detainer complaint that was later dismissed. (Id.,
¶ 56.) 
 
At the pleading stage, Plaintiff is not required to prove
his allegations, and the court finds that the facts in the Complaint, as set
forth above, are sufficient to support a claim for retaliatory eviction. The
demurrer the fourth cause of action is overruled. 
 
D.        Fifth Cause of Action - Violation of Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance
(TAHO)
 
In 2021, the Los Angeles City Council adopted the Tenant
Anti- Harassment Ordinance (TAHO) #187109 which prohibits landlords from
harassing tenants by actions such as removing housing services, withholding repairs,
or refusing to accept rent payments. The TAHO Ordinance states in relevant
part:
 
Tenant
Harassment shall be defined as a landlord’s knowing and willful course of
conduct directed at a specific tenant or tenants that causes detriment and
harm, and that serves no lawful purpose, including, but not limited to, the
following actions:
 
[ . .
. ]
 
 
   2.   Failing
to perform and timely complete necessary repairs and maintenance required by
Federal, State, County, or local housing, health, or safety laws; or failure to
follow applicable industry standards to minimize exposure to noise, dust, lead
paint, asbestos, or other building materials with potentially harmful health
impacts.
 
   4.   Threatening
a tenant, by word or gesture, with physical harm.
 
   5.   Attempting
to coerce the tenant to vacate with offer(s) of payments.
 
   6.   Misrepresenting
to a tenant that the tenant is required to vacate a rental unit or enticing a
tenant to vacate a rental unit through an intentional misrepresentation or the
concealment or omission of a material fact.
 
   7.   Threatening
or taking action to terminate any tenancy including service of any notice to
quit or other eviction notice or bringing action to recover possession of a
rental unit based on facts which the landlord has no reasonable cause to
believe to be true. No landlord shall be liable under this subsection for
bringing an action to recover possession of a rental unit unless and until the
tenant has obtained a favorable termination of that action.
 
   8.   Threatening
to or engaging in any act or omission which interferes with the tenant’s right
to use and enjoy the rental unit or whereby the premises are rendered unfit for
human habitation and occupancy.
 
   16.   Other
repeated acts or omissions of such significance as to substantially interfere
with or disturb the comfort, repose, peace or quiet of a tenant(s) and that
cause, are likely to cause, or are committed with the objective to cause a
tenant(s) to surrender or waive any rights in relation to such tenancy.
 
Defendants assert that they did
not engage in any harassing conduct and that repairs were timely as evidenced
by the allegations in the Complaint that repairs were made. The court
disagrees. 
 
The Complaint sufficiently
alleges that Plaintiff complained about a bat infestation sometime before
September 1, 2022, when he informed Westhome’s maintenance manager. (Compl., ¶
21.) “Defendants acknowledged the validity of Plaintiff’s concerns and complaints
related to the Bats and the smell of urine, but did not take necessary steps to
alleviate the toxic problem.” (Id., ¶ 32.) It would be more than a year,
on October 13, 2023, that Defendants addressed the complaint and hired a
wildlife trapper. (Id., ¶¶ 33, 36.) Afterwards, Plaintiff would continue
to find bat feces and in November 2023 Plaintiff began to request relocation to
another unit. (Id., ¶¶ 46-47, 49.) On March 10, 2024, Plaintiff was
served with the Unlawful Detainer complaint. (Id., ¶ 56.) 
 
The facts above support the
allegation Defendants knowingly and willfully engaged in a course of conduct
that served no lawful purpose by failing to perform and make timely repairs in
relation to the bat infestation (TAHO #187109(2)) and taking action to terminate
Plaintiff’s tenancy by filing an Unlawful Detainer action against Plaintiff
“which the landlord has no reasonable cause to believe to be true” (TAHO #187109(7)).
(Compl., 86(d).) 
 
Based on the above, the
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is overruled. 
Motion to Strike
 
Defendants move to strike
Plaintiff’s request for punitive damages and attorney’s fees: 
 
1)    
All Portions of the complaint
seeking punitive damages against the Defendants: 
 
(a) Specifically, Page 14, ¶ 83 of the
complaint, which states: “Defendants refusal to 
correct the intolerable living
conditions of the UNIT and constant threat to terminate tenancy were motivated
by malice in that Defendants intended to cause injury to the Plaintiff by
despicable conduct which was carried on by the Defendants with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of Plaintiff, and with oppression
in that Defendant engaged in despicable conduct that subjected Plaintiff to
cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of the rights of Plaintiff,
with the intent to oppress Plaintiff and cause them to suffer injury, in that
Defendants were angry at Plaintiff for asserting their legal rights under
California law. Plaintiff is thus entitled to exemplary and punitive damages in
an amount according to proof at time of trial.”
 
(b) Specifically, Page 17, ¶ 1 of the
Prayer for Relief as to the Fourth Cause of Action, which states: "For
damages, general, special, exemplary, and statutory in a sum according to proof
at the time of trial…" 
 
2)    
All Portions of the complaint
seeking attorneys' fees against the Defendants:

 
(a) Specifically, Page 12, ¶ 71 of the
complaint, which states: "As an actual, direct, and proximate result of
Defendants' breach, Plaintiffs have been injured and damaged in their health,
body, and have suffered emotional distress, and have sustained special, general
and property damages as well as interest thereon, and other damages, including
but not limited to any and all applicable and statutory attorney's fees and
costs, and other damages, all in an amount to be proven at trial. 
 
(b) Specifically, Page 13, ¶ 75 of the
complaint, which states: "As an actual, direct, and proximate result of
Defendants' breach, Plaintiff has been injured and damaged in his health, body,
and have suffered emotional distress, and have sustained special, general and
property damages as well as interest thereon, and other damages, including but
not limited to any and all applicable and statutory attorney's fees and costs,
and other damages, all in an amount to be proven at trial." 
 
(c) Specifically, Pages 13-14, ¶ 78 of
the complaint, which states: "Plaintiff is informed and believe, and
herein allege, that said violations of Civil Code section 1942.4 has occurred
during the last two years and continues to occur. Plaintiff has been damaged
physically, mentally, and economically by Defendants' conduct. As such,
Plaintiff is entitled to rent abatement in an amount to be proven at trial.
Additionally, pursuant to Civil Code section 1942.4(b), each plaintiff is
entitled to actual damages sustained and special damages in an amount not less
than $100.00, nor more than $5,000.00, as well as reasonable attorney's fees
and costs in an amount fixed by the Court, rent paying tenants, asserted their
rights by complaining of the uninhabitable conditions that each were living in,
however, Defendants, and DOES 1 to 10, and each of them, failed to timely and
adequately make corrections. 
 
(d) Specifically, Page 14, ¶ 82 of the
complaint, which states: As a direct and proximate result of the aforementioned
acts and omissions, Plaintiff have been injured and damaged in their health,
body and have suffered emotional distress, and have sustained special, general
and property damages as well as interest thereon, and other damages, including
but not limited to any and all applicable statutory attorney's fees and
costs-if any- and other damages, all in an amount to be proven at trial. 
 
(e) Specifically, Page 15, ¶ 87 of the
complaint, which states: "As a direct and proximate result of the
aforementioned acts and omissions, Plaintiff has been injured and damaged in
his health, body and has suffered emotional distress, and have sustained
special, general and property damages as well as other damages, including but
not limited to any and all applicable statutory attorney's fees and costs-if any
and other damages, all in an amount to be proven at trial. 
 
(f) Specifically, Page 17, ¶ 2 of the
Prayer for Relief as to the Third Cause of Action, which states: "For
Attorney fees and cost of suit reasonably incurred…" 
 
(g) Specifically, Page 17, ¶ 5 of the
Prayer for Relief as to the Third Cause of Action, which states:
"Reasonable attorney's fees pursuant to Civil Code 1942.4 (b) (2)" 
 
(h) Specifically, Page 18, ¶ 4 of the
Prayer for Relief as to the Fourth Cause of Action, which states:
"Reasonable attorney's fees pursuant to Civil Code Section
1942.5(i)…" 
 
(i) Specifically, Page 18, ¶ 1 of the
Prayer for Relief as to the Fifth Cause of Action, which states: "A tenant
prevailing in court under this article may be awarded compensatory damages,
rent refunds for reduction in housing services, reasonable attorney's fees and
costs, imposition of civil penalties up to $10,000 per violation depending upon
the severity of the violation, tenant relocation, and other appropriate relief,
as adjudged by the court.
 
A.        Failure to Allege a Managing Agent Acted
with Malice, Oppression or Fraud
 
To state a claim for punitive damages under Civ.
Code § 3294, a plaintiff must allege specific facts showing that the defendant
has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (Smith v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.)¿ The basis for punitive damages must be
pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any factual assertions
are insufficient. (Ibid.)¿¿“Malice” is defined in Civ. Code, § 3294
(c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury” or
“despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” “Oppression” is defined
as “despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Civ. Code §, 3294(c)(2).) The
term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that are “base,”
“vile,” or “contemptible.” (Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales
& Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal.App.4th 847, 891.) Fraud means “an
intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known
to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby
depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”
(Civ. Code, § 3294(c)(3). 
 
When
the defendant is a¿corporation, “the oppression, fraud, or malice must be
perpetrated, authorized, or knowingly ratified by an officer, director, or
managing agent of the¿corporation.” (Wilson v. Southern California Edison
Company (2015) 234 Cal.App.4th 123, 164; see Civ. Code, § 3294(b).)
Furthermore, a managing agent includes “only those corporate employees who
exercise substantial independent authority and judgment in their corporate
decision making so that their decisions ultimately determine corporate policy.”
(White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 564, 566-667 (White).)

 
The Complaint fails to allege that a managing
agent of Defendants acted with fraud, malice, or oppression or ratified such
conduct. The Complaint only alleges that Plaintiff received an email from
“Isaiah” about the work related to the bat issue was about to commence.
(Compl., ¶ 36.) The Complaint also alleges that Plaintiff was informed by “Will”,
Westhome’s maintenance manager, that it would take action regarding the bat
issue. (Id., ¶ 31.) “[A] corporation is a legal fiction that
cannot act except through its employees or agents[.]” (Kight v.
CashCall, Inc. (2011) 200 Cal.App.4th 1377, 1392.) Therefore, for
Defendant entities to be guilty of malice, oppression, or fraud, a managing
agent of Defendants must have engaged in or ratified such conduct. In the
absence of such allegations, Plaintiff’s conclusory statement that Defendants
acted with oppression are insufficient to support a claim for punitive damages.

 
Defendants’
request to strike punitive damages is granted with leave to amend. 
 
B.        Request for Attorney’s Fees 
 
Defendants assert that
Plaintiff has not pled that a contract exists that would entitle Plaintiff to
attorney’s fees as a prevailing party. Plaintiff does not address this contention
and instead asserts that they are entitled to attorney’s fees from the
statutory provisions of Civ. Code §§ 1942.4 and 1942.5 and Los Angeles County
Tenant Anti-Harassment Ordinance, Section 45.35(B). 
 
The demurrer to the third cause
of action for violation of section 1942.4 has been sustained. Moreover, the
Complaint does not allege that the Plaintiff is entitled to attorney’s fees
under TAHO section 45.35(B). Plaintiff references Section 45.33 (also Ordinance
# 187109) but that section of the ordinance does provide for attorney’s fees. 
 
Lastly, Civ. Code § 1942.5(i)
attorney’s fees provision states: “(i) In any action brought for damages
for retaliatory eviction, the court shall award reasonable attorney’s fees to
the prevailing party if either party requests attorney’s fees upon the
initiation of the action.” The Prayer for Relief in the Complaint specifically
references section 1942.5(i) in its request for attorney’s fees. The demurrer
to the fourth cause of action for violation of section 1942.5(i) has been
overruled and Defendant fails to state why Plaintiff may not recover attorney’s
fees for the entire action under section 1942.5(i). 
 
Therefore, the request to
strike Plaintiff’s request for attorney’s fees from the Complaint is denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
Defendants’
demurrer to the third cause of action is sustained with leave to amend and
overruled 
as
to the fourth and fifth causes of action. Defendants’ motion to strike is
granted as to the 
request
to strike punitive damages but denied as to the request to strike the request
for attorney’s 
fees.
Plaintiff is granted 10 days leave to amend. The court sets a
Non-Appearance OSC RE: 
Amended Complaint for November 19, 2024,
at 8:30 a.m.. Defendant to give notice.
.


