  Case Number:  24VECV02326    Hearing Date:   September 10, 2024    Dept:  T 24VECV02326 Karamzadeh v Manesh[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Defendant Babak Manesh, D.D.S.’s Demurrer to the Complaint is OVERRULED.  Answer to complaint due within 20 days.
Defendant Babak Manes, D.D.S.’s Motion to Strike Portions of the Complaint is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND.
Introduction
Defendant Babak Manesh, D.D.S. (Defendant) demurred to Plaintiff Sheida Karamzadeh’s (Plaintiff) Complaint.  The demurrer placed into issue the second cause of action (COA) for medical battery and the third COA for intentional misrepresentation.  Defendant also moved to strike the request for punitive damages. 
An opposition and a reply as to the demurrer were reviewed by the Court.  However, an opposition to the motion to strike was not filed by Plaintiff and Defendant filed a notice of non-opposition as to the motion to strike.
Discussion
Defendant argued that the second COA for medical battery is insufficiently supported with fact pleading because Plaintiff failed to allege facts to plead a substantially different treatment.  However, Defendant’s argument misconstrues Plaintiff’s allegations.  Plaintiff expressly alleged that she only consented to veneers and not crowns.  As Plaintiff alleged, the two procedures are completely different treatments.  Plaintiff expressly alleged that veneers are cosmetic and only on the front surface of the teeth, whereas crowns cover the entire tooth.  (Compl. par. 5.)  Plaintiff sufficiently alleged facts to show that a completely different procedure was undertaken.  Defendant’s argument is unpersuasive.
Defendant argued that Plaintiff failed to allege that she “never” consented to crowns.  However, the argument again misconstrues Plaintiff’s express allegations.  Plaintiff expressly alleged that crowns were never discussed.  (Id.)  Further, Plaintiff expressly alleged that any consent given for crowns was given under duress and/or forged because Defendant sought the consent in the middle of the procedure.  (Compl. pars. 7, 9-12.)  Based upon these facts, Defendant’s argument is unpersuasive.
Defendant argued that the allegations fail to plead facts showing that the procedure was rendered on an entirely separate anatomical location than the consented treatment.  Again, Defendant’s argument fails to acknowledge the express allegations of the Complaint.  Veneers are alleged to be a cosmetic procedure only for the front surface of the teeth, whereas the crown procedure performed by Defendant treats Plaintiff’s entire tooth (i.e., front, top, back, and sides of the teeth).  (Compl. par. 5.)  Plaintiff’s allegations sufficiently alleged that the procedure was conducted on a separate anatomical location (i.e., top, back  and sides of the teeth).  Defendant’s argument is based upon a misconstruction of the facts alleged by Plaintiff and is thus unpersuasive.
Defendant then argued that there are insufficient facts to support the intent element.  However, intent is sufficiently alleged by the facts alleging that Defendant performed the procedure for crowns rather than veneers.  Defendant’s argument is unpersuasive.
The demurrer to the second COA is OVERRULED.
As to the third COA for fraud, Defendant argued that Plaintiff failed to plead specific facts as to where the misrepresentation was made.  However, Plaintiff’s claim is based upon a false promise to place veneers upon Plaintiff’s teeth.  Plaintiff further alleged that the promise was made on October 11, 2023 and again on October 20, 2023. The representation on October 20, 2023 was made in Defendant’s office when Plaintiff was treated for a cavity filling.  (Compl. pars. 6-8.)  Defendant’s argument as to “where” the representation was made is unpersuasive.  As seen in the above allegations, Plaintiff sufficiently alleged the “when” and the “to whom” of the misrepresentation.  Plaintiff further alleged that the representation was additionally made in the middle of the procedure when Plaintiff confronted Defendant about the amount of tooth removal that was occurring and in writing through an invoice and consent form. (Compl. pars. 7-12.)  Plaintiff sufficiently alleged the “how” and “by what means” the representations were tendered as seen in the above fact allegations.  Defendant’s argument is unpersuasive.
The demurrer to the third COA is OVERRULED. 
Defendant moved to strike the request for punitive damages.  Defendant argued that Plaintiff failed to obtain leave of court to allege punitive damages.  (Code Civ. Proc., sec. 425.13.)  Plaintiff did not oppose the motion and failed to present any argument in support of their request for punitive damages.  Defendant’s argument is persuasive.
Defendant’s motion to strike is GRANTED WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. 
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.