..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 21STCV36595
Plaintiff's Name: Marine Mandoyan
Defendant's Name: City of Los Angeles, et al.
People-Names: Marine Mandoyan, Michael K. Tcheng
Company-Names: Los Angeles World Airports, City of Los Angeles
Places: Los Angeles, Alverstone Trailers
Dates: March 2, 2021, March 4, 2021, March 20, 2024
Events: Trip and fall, Covid-19 vaccination shot
Money: Workers' compensation benefits
Intentions: Plaintiff seeks damages for injuries sustained during a trip and fall on the defendants' premises, while receiving a free Covid-19 vaccination shot.
Facts: Plaintiff worked as an Information Systems Manager I for LAWA, and was offered a free Covid-19 vaccination shot as a benefit of her employment. She tripped and fell on an object while on her way to receive the shot.
Disputes: Plaintiff disputes that she is barred from bringing a civil suit against the defendants under the Workers Compensation Act.
Acts: Plaintiff received a free Covid-19 vaccination shot on March 4, 2021, while on the defendants' premises.
Agreements: None mentioned in the document.
Laws: California Labor Code, California Code of Civil Procedure, Government Code
Case Citations: Maher v. Workers' Comp. Appeals Bd., Alander v. VacaValley Hosp., Bell v. Macy's California, Emp. Mut. L. Ins. Co. v. Indus. Acc. Comm'n, Jimenez v. Mrs. Gooch's Natural Food Markets, Inc., Eckis v. Sea World Corp., Lee v. West Kern Water Dist.
Statutes: California Labor Code, California Code of Civil Procedure, Government Code
Roles: Plaintiff, Defendant, Judge
Significant Statements:
* Plaintiff's trip and fall arose on her employer's premises and she was there during business hours for a vaccine offered due to her employment.
* Plaintiff was not on her employer's premises as a member of the public, but that it was incidental to her employment to take advantage of a health benefit offered exclusively to a class of employees.
* Workers' compensation is an employee's exclusive remedy when the employee obtains medical treatment from the employer under circumstances incidental to the employment relationship.
* If a reasonable doubt exists as to whether an act of an employee is contemplated by the employment, or as to whether an injury occurred in the course of the employment, section 3202 requires courts to resolve the doubt against the right of the employee to sue for civil damages and in favor of the applicability of the Compensation Act.
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling granting the defendants' motion for summary judgment. The plaintiff, Marine Mandoyan, filed a lawsuit against the City of Los Angeles and Los Angeles World Airports (LAWA) for injuries she sustained during a trip and fall on their premises while receiving a free Covid-19 vaccination shot. The defendants argued that workers' compensation is Mandoyan's exclusive remedy, as she was injured in the course of receiving a free vaccination supplied by her employer, LAWA. The judge agrees with the defendants, finding that Mandoyan's claim falls within the scope of workers' compensation and that she is barred from bringing a civil suit against the defendants. The judge has granted the motion for summary judgment and ordered the defendants to give notice.
