 Case Number:  20STCV41786    Hearing Date:   March 20, 2024    Dept:  31 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT  VINCENT ROSSIELLO, Plaintiff(s),  vs.  BRIAN SANCHEZ ROJAS, ET AL.,  Defendant(s). ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )       CASE NO: 20STCV41786  [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO DEEM ADMISSIONS ADMITTED   Dept. 31 1:30 p.m.  March 20, 2024  I. MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSION ADMITTED Plaintiff Vincent Rossiello (“Plaintiff”) propounded requests for admissions (“RFAs”), set one, on defendant Brian Sanchez Rojas (“Defendant”) on March 22, 2023. After receiving no response, Plaintiff’s counsel sent a letter to defense counsel requesting responses. As of the date of Plaintiff filing the instant motion, Defendant has not served responses. Plaintiff therefore seeks an order deeming his RFAs, set one, to be admitted against Defendant. Defendant opposes the motion, contending that he served verified responses to the RFAs on January 12, 2024. Although Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s opposition fails to demonstrate that verified responses were served, Plaintiff appears to acknowledge that he received verifications to the RFAs on March 6, 2024. Therefore, the Court finds the motion moot.  (Cal. Code Civ. Proc §2033.280(c); St. Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 776.)   The only remaining issue is sanctions.   II. MONETARY SANCTIONS Plaintiff requests monetary sanctions be imposed because he was forced to file the motion before receiving the untimely response. Plaintiff seeks $1,060 for the motion, appearance, and filing fee.  Where a party fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).) Here, it is undisputed that Defendant provided verified responses only after Plaintiff had filed his motion. Therefore, sanctions are warranted. A court has discretion to award sanctions that are “suitable and necessary to enable the party seeking discovery to obtain the objects of the discovery he seeks” but they should not be punitive in nature or levied for the purposes of punishing an offending party. (Vallbona v. Springer (1996) 43 Cal.App.4th 1525, 1545.). Plaintiff is awarded three hours of attorney time for the motion, reply, and to appear at the hearing at the requested rate of $250 per hour, for a total of $750 in attorney’s fees. Further, Plaintiff is awarded one motion filing fee of $60 as costs. Sanctions are sought and imposed against Defendant and his counsel of record, jointly and severally. Defendant and/or his counsel are ordered to pay sanctions to Plaintiff, by and through counsel of record, in the total amount of $810, within twenty (20) days.   Moving party is ordered to give notice.    PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling,¿the party must send an email to the court at¿sscdept31@lacourt.org¿with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.¿ The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting.¿¿ Unless¿all¿parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.¿ You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.¿¿ If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.¿ After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave.¿  Dated this 19th day of March 2024      Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court   