 Case Number:  23STCP00500    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los
Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



WALTER PEARCE 
      
  
  vs.
 
GARDENA REITREMENT CENTER, INC. dba GARDENA
  RETIREMENT CENTER 
  


 Case
  No.:  23STCP00500   
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 3, 2024




 
Defendant’s
motion for an order directing compliance is GRANTED. 
 
On 2/21/2023,
Walter Pearce (Plaintiff) filed suit against Gardena Retirement Center, Inc.
dba Gardena Retirement Center (Defendant), alleging: (1) dependent adult
abuse/neglect; and (2) negligence. 
 
            On
5/16/2024, Defendant moved for an order directing Plaintiff’s compliance with a
subpoena. 
 
Discussion  
 
            Defendant
argues that an order is necessary to produce Plaintiff’s relevant phone records
because while Plaintiff has complied by signing an Authorization of Release,
T-Mobile will not produce the records absent a Court order.
 
            In
response, Plaintiff filed a limited opposition, arguing that the motion should
be granted but “any cell phone records involving anyone besides Mr. Pearce’s daughter
and facility fails to meet the relevancy standard under Code Civ. Proc.
§2017.010.” (3, 26-27.) 
 
            As
such, Plaintiff requests that his counsel receive and have a right to review
and redact the subpoenaed cell-records. The information to be redacted shall
include any information revealing Mr. Pearce’s contacts with anyone besides his
daughter and facility staff including the names and contact information of any
other third-party and the contents of those calls.
 
            In
reply, Defendant argues that Plaintiff should be permitted to investigate the
circumstances surrounding the call between him and his daughter by obtaining
phone records that would identify other calls and the duration of other such
calls, before and after any call(s) with plaintiff’s daughter. This is because
Plaintiff has claimed that during the day of the records at issue he was in a
bathtub and used his phone to communicate with his daughter and others. As
such, Plaintiff has opened up for analysis the context of such communications and
the duration of communications. Moreover, given that there is little evidence
to objectively verify the amount of time that plaintiff was in the bathtub on
the date that he suffered burn injuries, these calls function as circumstantial
evidence towards the timeline of events. 
 
            The
Court is persuaded that Plaintiff’s calls on that day with individuals beyond
his daughter are relevant.  
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion for an order directing compliance is
granted. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 