 Case Number:  22STCV23799    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



STACEY CARR-SUSOR, et al. 
                           
         vs.
 
BARRINGTON PACIFIC LLC, et al.

 
 


 Case No.: 
  22STCV23799
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 3, 2024



 
 
            Defendant’s
motion to compel further discovery is DENIED. 
 
            On
7/22/2022, Plaintiffs Stacey Carr-Susor, Chi Cho, Deanne Turner, and Jean Mejia
filed suit against Barrington Pacific, LLC, alleging: (1) violations of the
Reporting Act; and (2) unfair business practices. 
 
            On
5/14/2024, Defendant moved to compel further responses from Plaintiffs to its
Requests for Production (RFPs) and Special Interrogatories. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that good cause exists to compel Plaintiffs to provide further responses
to their RFPs and Special Interrogatories which pertain to their affirmative
defense.
 
Cal. Civ.
Code section 1786 et seq., which includes section 1786.50(c), provides parties
“shall not be liable to a consumer who is the subject of the report where the
failure to comply results in a more favorable investigative consumer report
than if there had not been a failure to comply.”
 
            Here,
Defendant argues that this discovery is based on an expert consultant’s
guidance as to what evidence is necessary to establish this affirmative defense.

 
 
          After review, the Court
finds no good cause exists to grant the motion. 
 
            As
contended by Plaintiff, Defendant’s motion turns on an overstatement of the meaning
and purpose Investigative Consumer Reporting Agencies Act (ICRAA). There is no
indication that the statute is prospective, or that it is not meant to impose
liability when a consumer is not subject to any adverse decision. 
 
            Rather,
the purpose of ICRAA was to protect consumer privacy and prevent identity
theft, and to automatically provide consumers with copies of any investigative
consumer reports made of them. 
 
            As
such, Defendant has not sufficiently supported its position that if Plaintiff’s
credit score increased, Defendant is not liable. As noted by Plaintiffs, “Defendant
ignores the actual situation the language describes: one in which the report is
more favorable than it would otherwise have been, such as a report which
erroneously omits felony convictions, for example.” (Opp., 7: 11-12.) 
 
            Here,
the discovery sought here—credit reports of the Plaintiffs and copies of
statements from Netflix, Disney Channel, Hulu, HBO, AT&T, Spectrum,
Verizon, and all other public utility accounts including power, gas, cable, pay
TV/Satellite TV, landline phone, cellular phone service, water,
waste/sanitation service, and Internet service—would speak to the impact of the
consumer report on their credit report prospectively speaking, but would not
tend to show one way or the other whether or not there was a violation of
ICRAA. Moreover, the question of whether or not the report resulted in a more
favorable investigative consumer report is determined at the time the report
was generated, and does not depend on the future generative result of that
report. Defendant’s legal authority failed to persuasively establish otherwise.

             
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to compel further discovery is denied. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 