 Case Number:  23STCV05560    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



TRESSIA MITCHELL 
  
        
  vs.
 
AMERICAN HONDA
  MOTOR CO. 
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV05560  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: July 3, 2024



 
Defendant’s
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. 

 
            On
3/14/2023, Plaintiff Tressia Mitchell (Plaintiff) filed suit against American
Honda Motor Co. Inc. (Defendant), alleging: (1) breach of express warranty; and
(2) concealment. 
 
            Now,
Defendant moves to compel Plaintiff to arbitrate her Complaint and stay the
action pending the completion of arbitration proceedings. 
 
            The
motion is unopposed. 
 
Legal Standard 
 
Where the Court has determined that an agreement to
arbitrate a controversy exists, the Court shall order the petitioner and the
respondent to arbitrate the controversy …unless it determines that…  grounds exist for rescission of the
agreement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) Among the grounds which can support
rescission are fraud, duress, and unconscionability. (Tiri v. Lucky Chances, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 231, 239.) The
Court may also decline to compel arbitration wherein there is possibility of
conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2 (c).) 
 
Discussion 
 
The party moving to compel arbitration “bears the burden
of proving [the] existence [of an arbitration agreement] by a preponderance of
the evidence.” (Rosenthal v. Great
Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) The moving party
also bears the burden of demonstrating that the claims fall within the scope of
the arbitration agreement. (Omar v.
Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)
 
A.   
Existing Agreement
 
Defendant
submitted evidence that on 9/28/2021, Plaintiff entered into a purchase
contract (RISC) for a new 2021 Honda CR-V (Subject Vehicle). The Purchase
Agreement reads “ARBITRATION PROVISION” and “PLEASE REVIEW –
IMPORTANT- AFFECTS YOUR LEGAL RIGHTS”).” (Zandi Decl., Exh. A.)  
 
The
arbitration provision provides: 
 
1.     
EITHER YOU OR WE MAY
CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN US DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT IN COURT
OR BY JURY TRIAL. 
(Ibid.)

 
The
arbitration provision also states broadly that any claim arising out of the
Sales Contract or any resulting relationship with “third parties who do not
sign this contract” could be resolved by binding arbitration: 
 
Any claim or
dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the
interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability
of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our employees, agents,
successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit
application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any
resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with
third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our
election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court
action.
 
(Ibid,
emphasis added.) 
 
            Defendant
submitted evidence that Plaintiff’s claim arises out of the purchase and
condition and the vehicle and thus falls within the scope of the arbitration
agreement. 
 
            Accordingly,
the Court concludes that the preponderance of evidence indicates the existence
of an arbitration agreement that covers Plaintiff’s claim. Plaintiff did not
oppose this motion and thus has not set forth any basis for not enforcing the
agreement. 
 
Based on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to compel
arbitration is granted. This matter is ordered stayed pending the completion of
arbitration proceedings.
 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 