 Case Number:  22STCV06421    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



SKYLER WELLS 
 
        
  vs.
 
STRATEGIC
  ACQUISITIONS, INC. 
 


 Case
  No.:  22STCV06421  
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: July 3, 2024



 
Defendant BDR’s
motions to compel further are MOOT. Plaintiff is sanctioned, jointly and
severally with counsel, $350 per motion, for a total of $2,100, payable within
30 days.
 
On 2/22/2022,
Plaintiff Skyler Wells (Plaintiff) filed suit against Strategic Acquisitions,
Inc., BDR, Inc., Open House Realty & Investments, LLC, and Peter Baer. On
2/15/2023, Plaintiff filed a third amended complaint (TAC) alleging: (1) breach
of contract; (2) construction defects; (3) construction defects; (4)
negligence; (5) negligence; (6) negligent infliction of emotional distress; and
(7) negligent infliction of emotional distress. 
 
            On
6/2/2024, Defendant BDR (BDR) moved to compel further responses to: (1) Form
Interrogatories – Construction Litigation (Set One); (2) Request for Admissions
(Set One); (3) Special Interrogatories (Set One); (4) Request for Production of
Documents (Set One); (5) Form Interrogatories – Construction Litigation (Set
Two); and (6) Request for Production of Documents (Set Two) (collectively, the Subject
Discovery).
 
Discussion 
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiff clarified that he had served responses to the Subject
Discovery requests on 5/29/2024.
 
            In
reply, BDR concedes that this renders BDR’s request for further responses moot.
However, BDR still seeks the imposition of monetary sanctions against Plaintiff
and Plaintiff’s counsel to reimburse it for the fees/costs incurred in having
to bring the Motions.
            
            In
support, BDR argues that:
 
… it is
undisputed Plaintiff originally had between four and six months to provide
responses and/or further responses to the Subject Discovery, depending upon
whether it was part of the first or second set of discovery that was served,
before these Motions here were filed and that Plaintiff failed to do so.
 
It is further
undisputed that Plaintiff did not provide further responses to the Subject
Discovery until between six and eight months after the responses became
originally due, and two months after BDR was forced to file the Motions here.
 
            (Reply,
3: 9-16.)
 
            Moreover,
despite BDR’s invitation for Plaintiff to engage in an IDC to avoid law and
motion practice in late February 2024, Plaintiff did not respond to the
request. 
 
            After
review, the Court finds that sanctions are still warranted. While the Court
decreases the sanction award due to Plaintiff’s provision of supplemental
responses, the Court still finds that Plaintiff’s unreasonable delay
necessitated these motions.  Plaintiff is
sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel, $350 per motion. ($350/hr x 1
hr), for a total of $2,100. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, BDR’s motions to compel further are moot. Plaintiff is sanctioned,
jointly and severally with counsel, $350 per motion, for a total of $2,100.
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 