  Case Number:  21STCV28098    Hearing Date:   July 3, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
 



INFERNO CALIFORNIA, INC. 
 
  
        
  vs.
 
NEW CITY
  RELEASING, INC, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  21STCV28098
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  July 3, 2024



 
Plaintiff’s motion for terminating
sanctions is GRANTED. Defendant’s answer is stricken and Plaintiff is to seek
the entry of default with the clerk’s office. Defendant is sanctioned $8,676,
payable within 30 days.
 
On 7/30/2021,
Plaintiff Inferno California, Inc. (Plaintiff) filed suit against New City
Releasing, Inc. and Alan B. Bursteen (collectively, Defendants), alleging: (1)
fraud in the inducement; and (2) breach of contract. 
 
            On
2/21/2024, Plaintiff moved for terminating sanctions striking Defendant Nile
Niami’s answer. Plaintiff also seeks monetary sanctions against Niami in the
sum of $8,676 as the reasonable costs and attorney’s fees incurred by Plaintiff
as a result of Niami’s abuse of the discovery process in this case pursuant to
California Civil Procedure Code section 2023.030(a).
 
            The
motion is unopposed. 
 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiff
seeks terminating sanctions against Niami on the grounds that throughout this
litigation he has repeatedly failed and refused to participate in any
meaningful way in this case with the exception of the filing of his Answer.
 
            In
support, Plaintiff submits evidence that:
 
-        
The Court issued an Order dated
February 16, 2023 granting Plaintiff’s motion to compel, which instructed Niami
to appear for his deposition as the PMQ of his shell company Contemporary
Vista. (Fabricant Decl. ¶ 3, Ex. 1.) Then, less than three months later, the
Court issued another Order dated April 5, 2023 in which it fully granted
another motion to compel filed by Plaintiff and instructed Niami to appear for
depositions in both his individual capacity and in his capacity as the PMQ of
his shell company Marbella Construction. (Fabricant Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. 2.)
 
-        
After the Court granted Plaintiff’s
second discovery motion compelling Niami’s deposition, Niami appeared to be
interested in settlement, and his counsel at the time, Raines Feldman LLP
(“Raines Feldman”), approached Plaintiff’s counsel to invite a settlement
demand. Fabricant Decl. ¶ 5. However, after Plaintiff’s counsel transmitted
Plaintiff’s initial settlement demand to Niami’s counsel, they never received a
response or counter-offer. Ibid. Instead, the next substantive correspondence
from opposing counsel indicated Raines Feldman would be seeking to withdraw as
Niami’s counsel in this case. Ibid. It then became evident Niami had feigned
interest in settlement and purported to engage in settlement negotiations in
bad faith and to further delay Plaintiff’s efforts to depose him in accordance
with the Court’s Orders dated February 16 and April 5, 2023.
 
-        
After Raines Feldman successfully
withdrew from this case and the holidays had passed, Plaintiff recommenced its
diligent efforts to depose Niami pursuant to the Court’s February 16, 2023 and
April 5, 2023 Orders. Fabricant Decl. ¶ 6. On January 4, 2024, Plaintiff’s
counsel reached out to Niami via the email addresses provided by his former
counsel at Raines Feldman upon their withdrawal from the case. Ibid.
Plaintiff’s counsel asked Niami to confirm whether he had found new
representation for himself and his companies and to provide deposition dates
for his Court-ordered depositions; reiterated Plaintiff’s settlement demand
Niami had previously solicited; and advised Plaintiff would seek terminating
sanctions against him as needed and applicable. Fabricant Decl. ¶ 6, Ex. 3. One
week later, on January 11, 2024, Niami finally responded to Plaintiff’s
counsel’s email. Ibid. In his email, Niami did not address the settlement
offer. Ibid. Instead, he stated that had not retained counsel for himself or
his companies and represented he would not sit for deposition in person since
“[t]raveling back to the USA [] especially for multiple days of depositions []
would be a hardship for [him] now both financially and logistically.” Ibid.
 
-        
Defendant ignored the April 5, 2023
order, and has to date failed to appear for deposition. (See Timeline of
Events, Motion, 6:21-7:27.)
 
 
After review,
the Court finds grounds to strike Defendant’s answer. Defendant’s conduct,
alongside his failure to oppose this motion, indicate that Defendant is either
unwilling or unable to engage in this litigation. 
 
The Court
considers Defendant’s failure to oppose to be a concession on the merits to
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion for terminating sanctions is granted. Defendant’s
answer is stricken and Plaintiff is to seek the entry of default with the
clerks office. Defendant is sanctioned $8,676.
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  July   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 