 Case Number:  24STCV01673    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  73 10/10/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding
 
ALADDIN DINAALI v. BRIDGE PROPERTY
MANAGEMENT, LC, et al. (24STCV01673)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party: Aladdin Dinaali (Pro Per)
Counsel for
Defendants/moving party:  David Samani (Lewis
Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith LLP)
 
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEES (filed on 8/13/24 by Defendants Bridge
Property Management, LC, James E. Murphy, and Lewis Brisbois Bisgaard &
Smith LLP)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Defendants Bridge
Property Management, LC, James E. Murphy and Lewis Brisbois Bisgaard &
Smith LLP’s motion for attorney fees is GRANTED. The Court awards Defendants $15,400 in attorney
fees and costs. 
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On
January 23, 2024, Plaintiff Aladdin Dinaali (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants Bridge Property Management, LC (“Bridge”); Lewis Brisbois Bisgaard
& Smith LLP (“LBBS”); James E. Murphy (“Murphy”); American Legal
Investigation Services Nevada, Inc.; Gabriela Melendez; and Deyber Jimenez. 
 
The basis of this lawsuit is that in April 2022, Bridge, through
its counsel, Murphy, sued Plaintiff in Nevada (the “Nevada action”) for
defamation and business disparagement. In the Nevada action, Bridge alleged
that Plaintiff damaged its reputation by creating two websites that falsely
stated that criminals resided in Bridge’s property and that the company is
racist. Plaintiff allegedly sent e-mails to Bridge’s employees directing them
to visit the websites. Bridge dismissed the case in May 2023. 
 
In October 2022, Plaintiff sued Bridge and Murphy in Los Angeles
Superior Court, case number 22STCV32840 (“First California Action”). Plaintiff alleged
that he was wrongfully sued in Nevada, Bridge allegedly filed a false police
report against him for criminal prosecution, Bridge conspired with its attorney
and employees to falsely accuse him of violating various statutes, and that his
website constitutes protected activities. In January 2023, the court dismissed
the case. 
 
In January 2024, Plaintiff brought this current lawsuit alleging
that the Nevada action was filed by Defendants frivolously and unlawfully. The Complaint alleges the
following causes of action: 
 
C/A
1: Conspiracy 
C/A
2: Malicious Prosecution
C/A
3: Abuse of Process
C/A
4: Unfair Business Practices (Civ § 1770)
C/A
5: Unfair Business Practices (BPC § 17200)
C/A
6: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
C/A
7: Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress 
 
On March 25, 2024, Defendants Bridge, LBBS and Murphy
(collectively “Bridge Defendants”) filed a Special Motion to Strike (“anti-SLAPP”).
On June 14, 2024, this Court entered an order granting the Bridge
Defendants anti-SLAPP motion.
On August 13, 2024, the Bridge Defendants filed their motion for
attorneys’ fees, arguing:
·      
The Bridge Defendants are entitled to a fee award as prevailing
party on the anti-SLAPP motion, they respectfully request that the Court grant
this Motion and award them $15,400 in attorneys’ fees and costs.
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition, arguing: 
·       The Bridge Defendants failed to meet and confer
with Plaintiff about their motion or else Plaintiff would have withdrawn the
complaint
·       Defendants committed perjury in their declarations and are
subject to criminal prosecution
 
Bridge Defendants filed a reply, arguing:
·       There is no
requirement to meet and confer prior to filing an anti-SLAPP motion.
·       Plaintiff,
without providing any evidence, asserts that defendants committed perjury in
their declaration. This baseless and unsupported statement cannot be used to deny Defendants’ motion.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard 
 
Code of
Civil Procedure section 425.16, subdivision (c) states that “[i]n any action
subject to subdivision (b), a prevailing defendant on a special motion to
strike shall be entitled to recover his or her attorneys’ fees and costs.”
 
“[A]bsent
circumstances rendering the award unjust, an attorney fee award should
ordinarily include compensation for all the hours reasonably spent,
including those relating solely to the fee.  We explained that the purpose
behind statutory fee authorizations—i.e., encouraging attorneys to act as
private attorneys general and to vindicate important rights affecting the
public interest—will often be frustrated, sometimes nullified, if awards are
diluted or dissipated by lengthy, uncompensated proceedings to fix or defend a
rightful fee claim.” (Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122,
1133-34 (emphasis in original).)  “The fee setting inquiry in California
ordinarily begins with the ‘lodestar,’ i.e., the number of hours reasonably
expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate.... The lodestar figure may
then be adjusted, based on consideration of factors specific to the case, in
order to fix the fee at the fair market value for the legal services
provided.” (Id. at 1134.) Other factors to consider in fixing the
reasonableness of fees to be considered beyond the fee agreement alone include,
but are not limited to “(1) the time and labor required, the novelty and
difficulty of the questions involved, and the skill requisite to perform the
legal service properly; (2) the likelihood that the acceptance of the
particular employment will preclude other employment by the lawyer; (3) the fee
customarily charged in this locality for similar legal services; (4) the amount
involved and the results obtained; (5) the time limitations imposed by the
circumstances; and (6) the experience, reputation, and ability of the lawyer or
lawyers performing the services.” (Glendora Community Redevelopment
Agency v. Demeter (1984) 155 Cal.App.3d 465, 470.)
 
B.     Discussion
 
As the prevailing party on their anti-SLAPP motion, the
Bridge Defendants move for an award of mandatory attorneys’ fees and costs against
Plaintiff in the amount of $15,400. 
 
The
Court notes that in Plaintiff’s opposition, he asserts that the motion should
be denied because (1) the Bridge Defendants “failed to meet and confer between
their filing or else Plaintiff would have withdrawn the complaint”; and (2) “Defendants
committed perjury in their declarations and are subject to criminal prosecution
should they wish to continue with this motion.” (Oppos., p. 2.) However,
Plaintiff fails to provide any authority or evidence in support of his statements.
The Court does not find Plaintiff’s assertions as grounds to deny the Bridge
Defendants’ instant motion. 
 
Since the Court granted the Bridge Defendants’ anti-SLAPP
motion, the Bridge Defendants are entitled to attorneys’ fees and costs
pursuant to CCP § 425.16(c).  
 
a.     Hourly Rate
 
“The
reasonable hourly rate is that prevailing in the community for similar
work.”  (PLCM Group v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal.4th 1084, 1095.) “The
experienced trial judge is the best judge of the value of professional services
rendered in [her] court.” (Ibid.) 
 
The Bridge
Defendants’ seek to recover fees for their counsel’s billed time in connection
with their anti-SLAPP and the instant motion. The Bridge Defendants’ counsel,
Patrik Johansson, states his hourly rate is $425 per hour. (Johansson Decl., ¶ 13.) 
 
The Court finds that the rates requested by the Bridge
Defendants are reasonable and not higher than rates charged by attorneys with
comparable skill and expertise. Mr. Johansson attests
to his experience and the reasonableness of the rates. (Johansson Decl., ¶¶ 5, 13-14.) Based on the evidence before it, the Court is not inclined to
reduce the hourly rates requested.
 
b.     Reasonable
Hours Incurred
 
“A trial
court assessing attorney fees begins with a touchstone or lodestar figure,
based on the ‘careful compilation of the time spent and reasonable hourly
compensation of each attorney ... involved in the presentation of the
case.”  (Christian Research Institute v. Alnor (2008) 165
Cal.App.4th 1315, 1321.) “The reasonableness of attorney fees is within the
discretion of the trial court, to be determined from a consideration of such
factors as the nature of the litigation, the complexity of the issues, the
experience and expertise of counsel and the amount of time involved. The court
may also consider whether the amount requested is based upon unnecessary or
duplicative work.” (Wilkerson v. Sullivan (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 443,
448.) 
 
While not per
se objectionable, block billing can exacerbate the vagueness of an attorney fee
request and support a court’s finding that time entries were inflated and
non-compensable.  (Christian Research Institute v. Alnor (2008) 165
Cal.App.4th 1315, 1325-1326.) 
 
The Bridge Defendants move for attorney fees and
costs in the total amount of $15,400 incurred in connection with their
successful anti-SLAPP motion and the instant motion for attorney fees and
costs. The Bridge Defendants note they are
only seeking 2/3 of the fees and cost incurred as Defendant LBBS is self-represented.
 
The Bridge
Defendants assert the total time spent on the anti-SLAPP motion took 45.2
hours. (Johansson Decl., ¶ 9.) However,
since the Bridge Defendants only seek 2/3 of the total fees, the Bridge
Defendants are seeking only fees incurred for 30 hours (2/3 of 45.2 hours). (Johansson Decl., ¶
10.) Therefore, at a rate of $425 per hour, the
total fees sought in connection with the anti-SLAPP motion is $12,750
(30 x 425.)
 
The Bridge
Defendants also seek fees incurred on the instant motion. The Bridge Defendants
anticipate spending 6 hours total on the instant motion. (Johansson Decl., ¶ 13.) Thus,
the total fees sought in connection with the instant motion is $1,700
(2/3 of 6 x 425.)
 
Having
analyzed the instant motion, the anti-SLAPP motion, and pleadings, the Court
finds that the fees sought by the Bridge Defendants are reasonable and do not
include excessive time billed or duplicative entries. “Parties who litigate
with no holds barred in cases such as this, in which the prevailing party is
entitled to a fee award, assume the risk they will have to reimburse the
excessive expenses they force upon their adversaries.” (Stokus v. Marsh
(1990) 217 Cal.App.3d 647, 653-654.) Here, the Court does not find that the
time billed by defense counsel was excessive.
 
c.      Costs 
 
The Bridge Defendants also seek the
costs incurred with their anti-SLAPP motion and the instant motion. The Bridge
Defendants incurred $1,305 in appearance fees, and $60 for the filing fee for
the anti-SLAPP motion. (Johansson
Decl., ¶ 11.) They also incurred
an additional $60 in motion fees for this fee motion. (Ibid.) The Bridge
Defendants are seeking $950 of these fees (2/3 of $1,425.) The Court grants the
Bridge Defendants’ request for costs.
 
In sum, the Bridge Defendant’s Motion
for Award of Attorneys’ fees and costs incurred in connection with their
successful anti-SLAPP motion and the instant motion is GRANTED
in the total amount of $15,400.
 
III. DISPOSITION
 

Defendants
Bridge Property
Management, LC, James E. Murphy and Lewis Brisbois Bisgaard & Smith LLP’s motion for attorney fees is GRANTED. The Court awards Defendants $15,400 in attorney fees and
costs. 