 Case Number:  23STCV08305    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  73 10/10/2024
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf Treu, Judge presiding
 
KENT TRAN v. UTOMO TANI, et al. (23STCV08305)
 
Counsel for Plaintiff/Cross-Defendants/moving
party:  Sally Chan (West Themis Law, PC)
Counsel for Defendants/Cross-Complainant/
opposing party: T. Randolph Catanese (Catanese and Wells)
 
MOTION TO CONTINUE THE TRIAL DATE AND
RELATED DEADLINES (filed 09/10/2024)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Motion to Continue the Trial date and
related deadlines is GRANTED. Dates  to
be provided 10-10-24.
Related deadlines are to follow the new
trial date.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On April 13, 2023, Plaintiff Kent Tran
(“Plaintiff”) filed his Complaint against Defendants Utomi Tani aka Jimmy Tani
(“Jimmy”); Yong Sook Kim; Jimmy Tani, Jr.; Lan Sam; Goodland Global Farm Inc.;
JT and KT Development LLC; Maie JT & KT Development LLC; True Garlic, Inc.;
Goodland Global Mining, Inc.; and nominal Defendant Golden Partner Global
Investment, Inc. dba NBC Seafood Restaurant (“collectively Defendants”). 
 
On January 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
Second Amended Complaint alleging the following causes of action: 
1)     
Intentional misrepresentation/fraud 
2)     
Conversion/embezzlement
3)     
Declaratory relief
4)     
Partition by sale
5)     
Violation of Welfare and Institutions
Code § 15600 et seq – Financial Elder Abuse
6)     
Intentional
infliction of emotional distress
7)     
Breach
of fiduciary duty
8)     
Conspiracy
9)     
Fraudulent
transfer/constructive fraud
10)  Negligent misrepresentation/fraud
11)  Fraud by concealment 
12)  Breach of written contract
13)  Breach of oral contract
14)  Inspection of records 
15)  Accounting
16)  Unjust enrichment
17)  Involuntary dissolution of
corporations
18)  Fraudulent transfer
19)  CA Penal Code Section § 496(A)
20) 
Cancellation
of instrument pursuant to Civ. Code § 3412
 
The Complaint alleges
the following. In or about 2008, Plaintiff and Jimmy formed several companies,
including Goodland Global Farm Inc., (“Goodland”), JT and KT Development LLC, and Maie JT and KT Development LLC. Plaintiff and Jimmy had
agreed to own the companies equally as partners. Plaintiff and Jimmy also
decided to jointly invest in another company, NBC Seafood Restaurant (“NBC”)
with Kam Choi Lin, Chang Ho Chen, Wei
Lin Zheng and Wai Hung Szeto. Plaintiff alleges that Jimmy engaged in fraud and
falsely misrepresented to Plaintiff, among other things, that Plaintiff owned 50% of the
Companies when he actually did not, that the Companies were in need of loans
and not profitable in order to induce Plaintiff to obtain personal loans, for
Plaintiff to sign documents that were related to taking out loans in 2021, and
that Plaintiff needed to vacate and sell his home to save the Companies. 
 
On February 15, 2024, Defendants (“Cross-Complainants”)
filed a Cross-Complaint against Kam Choi Lin, Chang Ho Chen, Wei Lin Zheng and
Wai Hung Szeto (collectively “Cross-Defendants”).
 
Cross-Complainants filed a First
Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) alleging the following causes of action:
1)     
Equitable Indemnity and Contribution
2)     
Indemnity
3)     
Declaratory relief
 
Cross-Complainants,
Cross-Defendants and Plaintiff are shareholders of NBC Seafood Restaurant. The FACC
alleges that that any
liability held against them pertaining to Plaintiff’s allegations, is due to
the negligence, carelessness, acts, or omissions of Cross-Defendants. Cross-Complainants
are seeking indemnification and contribution for any loss suffered and damages
awarded to Plaintiff. Cross-Complainants also seek a declaration that Jimmy has
not violated the Bylaws of Golden Partner Global Investment, Inc., and that his
actions or omissions were ratified and consented to by Cross-Defendants.
 
On September 10, 2024, Defendants and
Cross-Complainants’ filed a Motion to Continue Trial Date and Related
Deadlines, arguing:
·       Good Cause
Exists to Grant the Motion to Continue the Trial Date Because of the Ongoing
Illness of Defendant and Cross-Complainant Yong Sook Kim.
·       Good Cause
Exists to Grant the Motion to Continue the Trial Date Because of Defendants'
and Cross-Complainants' Inability to Obtain Essential Testimony, Documents and
Other Material Evidence Despite Diligent Efforts
·       The Case is
Not Yet At Issue and This is the First and Only Anticipated Request for
Continuance by Defendants and Cross-Complainants.
 
Plaintiff filed an opposition, arguing:
·       Plaintiff
Kent Tran’s Age and Health Mandate Expedited Trial Under California Code of
Civil Procedure Section 36.
o   At 73,
Plaintiff has faced ongoing health problems, including surgeries and medical
treatments since 2018. Under California Code of Civil Procedure section 36, a
party over 70 with substantial interest in a case is entitled to trial
preference if health concerns warrant it, preventing prejudice to their
litigation interests.
·       While the
Defendants cite the medical condition of Ms. Yong Sook Kim as their primary
reason for requesting a continuance, the evidence they provide is neither specific
nor substantial enough to justify such a lengthy postponement.
·       Unavailability
of Essential Testimony and Documents Does Not Justify Delay
·       While it is
true that some legal and factual issues have not yet been fully developed, this
is a direct result of Defendants' persistent refusal to engage in timely
discovery and their continuous efforts to obstruct the discovery process.
 
Defendants and Cross-Complainants filed a reply,
arguing:
·       Plaintiff
Kent Tran's Request for Trial Preference Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
Section 36 is Improper and Should be Disregarded.
o   It is
brought in an incorrect manner, and the request is not supported by any
declaration of the Plaintiff, counsel, or attending physician.
·       Defendant
and Cross-Complainant Yong Sook Kim is an Essential Party for Trial. She is
directly sued in the SAC.
·       The
Unavailability of Essential Testimony and Documents Constitutes Good. Cause to
Continue the Trial Date.
 
 
II. DISCUSSION
 
A.     
Legal
Standard 
 
A party
seeking a continuance of the date set for trial must make the request for a
continuance by a noticed motion or an ex parte application as soon as
reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.¿
(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1332(b).)¿ The request for continuance may be
granted on an affirmative showing of good cause.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1332.)¿
 
The Court may
look to the following factors in determining whether a trial continuance is
warranted: (1) proximity of the trial date; (2) whether there was any previous
continuance of trial due to any party; (3) the length of the continuance
requested; (4) the availability of alternative means to address the problem
that gave rise to the motion; (5) the prejudice that parties or witnesses will
suffer as a result of the continuance; and (6) whether trial counsel is engaged
in another trial. (See generally, Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332, subd.
(d)(1)-(11).) Additionally, factors for the Court to consider include: a
party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts; the proximity of the trial date;
whether all parties have stipulated to a continuance; and any other fact or
circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or application.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(c), (d).)
 

B.     
Discussion
 
Defendants and Cross-Complainants move for an order continuing the November
25, 2024 trial date and related deadlines for a period of six months or any
date thereafter.
 
Defendants and Cross-Complainants assert that due to illness, it is
anticipated that Defendant and Cross-Complainant Yong Sook Kim would not be
able to attend the current trial date. In her declaration, Defendant and
Cross-Complainant Yong Sook Kim states that she was required to go on an
emergency basis to the hospital on August 30, 2024 and on September 5, 2024,
her medical doctor advised that she would need additional rest and time to
rehabilitate until mid-2025. (Kim Decl., ¶ 4.) Kim submitted a letter from her doctor stating her multiple
medical morbidities and that postponing the court date about 6 months would
accommodate her medical need. (Kim
Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 1.) Defendants
and Cross-Complainants also contend that this is the first request for a trial
continuance and the case is relatively new having been filed on April 13, 2023.
They argue that there has been little discovery in this case and Defendants and
Cross-Complainants have been unable to obtain essential testimony, documents
and other material evidence. For example, Plaintiff’s deposition has not been
taken yet. (Catanese Decl., ¶ 4.)
 
The Court
finds there is good cause to continue trial. Defendant and Cross-Complainant Yong Sook Kim is a party in this action and
states her serious illness would preclude her from attending the current trial
date. “The death or serious illness of a trial attorney or a party
should, under normal circumstances, be considered good cause for granting the
continuance of a trial date.” (Hernandez v. Superior Ct. (2004) 115 Cal.
App. 4th 1242, 1247–48.) Further, Defendants
and Cross-Complainants have stated they have been unable to obtain essential
discovery. Additionally, there has been no previous trial continuance,
the case is relatively new and the relatively short length of the requested
continuance all weigh in favor of a trial continuance.
 
Moreover, Plaintiff’s
opposition does not sufficiently allege prejudice. Plaintiff also argues that
preference should be given to Plaintiff pursuant to California Code of Civil
Procedure Section 36, but fails to provide any evidence in support of any
health issues. 
 
Accordingly,
the Court finds the interests of justice are best served by a trial
continuance. The Court GRANTS the Motion
to Continue the Trial and related deadlines. 
 
DISPOSITION
 
Motion to Continue the Trial date and related deadlines is GRANTED.  Dates to be provided 10-10-24. Related deadlines are to follow the new trial date.
 
 
 