  Case Number:  22STCV06115    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  8 
Tentative RulingHEARING DATE:  July 17, 2024 CASE NUMBER:  22STCV06115 CASE NAME: John Doe v. Loyola Marymount University, et al.   MOVING PARTY: Defendant, Loyola Marymount University  RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, John Doe.   TRIAL DATE:  August 26, 2024  MOTION:  (1) LMU’s Motion for Summary Judgment  (2) LMU’s Ex Parte Application to Continue trial, FSC and other dates (3) LMU’s ex parte application to compel IME of Plaintiff  Tentative Rulings:  (1)¿GRANTED only as to Violation of Education Code section 220. ARGUE as to the first cause of action.  DENIED as the rest of the motion. (2)  Discuss.  Trial has already been continued twice in a case field nearly 2-1/2 years ago, but with Plaintiff having belatedly sought leave to amend so close to trial the possibility of a pleading motion was noted at the hearing on the motion for leave to amend (3) Discuss.  The Court would be inclined to consider shortening time for the motion to be heard and to set a briefing schedule   I. BACKGROUNDA. Factual On February 17, 2022, John Doe (“Plaintiff”) filed this action. On March 16, 2022, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint against Defendants, Loyola Marymount University (“LMU”) and Michael Mozilo (“Mozilo”). The FAC alleges the following causes of action: (1) Discrimination under Education Code § 66251; (2) Discrimination in Violation of the Unruh Civil Rights Act ; (3) Education Code Section 220; (4) Negligence against Loyola Marymount University; (5) Breach of Contract; (6) Negligence against Michael Mozilo and Does 50-99; (7) California Civil Code § 1708.85 “Revenge Porn Statute”; (8) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; and (9) Injunctive Relief. Plaintiff brought this lawsuit against LMU and Mozilo alleging that LMU failed to take appropriate action to investigate, and remedy alleged abusive conduct by Plaintiff’s fellow student Mozilo. Among other things, Plaintiff alleges that (a) Mozilo unlawfully took and distributed a video recording of Plaintiff to fellow students; (b) that Mozilo and fellow students “tormented and bullied” Plaintiff based on the illicit video; (c) Plaintiff’s fellow students “threatened and harassed” Plaintiff; (d) that LMU’s employees, despite being aware of the misconduct, failed to investigate or take action to prevent or remedy the abuse; and (e) Plaintiff was forced to leave school, surrender an athletic scholarship, and sustained substantial damages as a result of the misconduct and LMU’s failures to follow its legal obligations and duties.   On July 8, 2024, this court GRANTED Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend Complaint which included adding references to Education Code sections 66252, 66270, and 66294.2, while LMU’s Motion for Summary Judgment or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication was pending.  On July 16, 2024, one day before the MSJ hearing, LMU filed ex parte application to continue the trial, FSC and other dates, and for an ex parte order to compel Plaintiff to attend an IME that LMU sought to explore Plaintiff’s claimed mental health issues, causation and damages   B. ProceduralOn May 3, 2024, LMU filed a Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication. On July 3, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition brief. On July 12, 2024, LMU filed a reply brief.   II. EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS   Plaintiff’s Evidentiary Objections:  Overrule: 1, 2 - 4 (not offered or considered by the Court for truth), 5, 7  Sustain: 6  LMU’s Evidentiary Objections:  Overrule: 1-14  Sustain: none.  III. ANALYSISA. Legal StandardThe function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437(c) “requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”¿ (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)¿¿ As to each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520. ) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”¿ (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)  Once the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.¿¿¿¿ To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)¿  B. Discussion  Preliminarily, this Court notes that Plaintiff has procedurally objected to Defendant’s notice of the motion for summary judgment and not complying with Code of Civil Procedure section 437c(a)(2) when it did not allow 75-day notice prior to the motion for summary judgment. This Court notes that the Amended Separate Statement was filed on May 13, 2024, and then again on June 24, 2024. Although the Court understands that the filing of the two errata compendium of evidence, Plaintiff’s opposition clearly was able to oppose each of these prior to filing its opposition brief. As such, the Court finds good cause to consider it, and not deny the motion on this procedural grounds, further delaying dispositive motions in this case.  Plaintiff’s Claim for Discrimination under California Education Code  Here, LMU argues that Plaintiff’s claim for discrimination under Education Code section 66251 fails because the Code sections cited to are not substantive and impose no mandatory duty on LMU to combat bias. Furthermore, LMU argues that Plaintiff cannot satisfy the elements necessary to recover for discrimination under the applicable Code section. Namely, LMU argues that Code sections 66251 and 66252 are not substantive and impose no mandatory duty on LMU as section 66251 is merely a statement of policy and purpose for the Equity in Higher Education Act, and section 66252 is a statement of legislative intent. However, as noted by Plaintiff, Defendant notes that Plaintiff failed to cite to the correct Code section – Education Code section 66270, which Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend complaint was granted for, and for which Defendant, LMU filed a notice of non-opposition to previously.  LMU’s moving papers argue that if Plaintiff’s pleading was attempting to assert a claim under Education Code section 66270, it also would not be able to survive summary judgment. Education Code section 66270 provides “[n]o person shall be subjected to discrimination on the basis of . . . sexual orientation . . . in any program or activity conducted by any postsecondary educational institution that receives, or benefits from, state financial assistance or enrolls students who receive state student financial aid.”¿As noted by the parties, a claim under this section has been analyzed under an analogous claim to a Title IX cause of action. (Videckis v. Pepperdine University (C.D. Cal. 2015) 100 F.Supp.3d 927, 935.)  Videckis held that an implied private right of action for sexual orientation discrimination does exist under Title IX.  (Id. at p. 937), and that claims for sexual orientation harassment under the California Educational Code §§ 220 and 66270 are governed by the same elements as a federal cause of action under Title IX.  (Id. at p. 935.) To prevail on his claim, Plaintiff must prove that: (1) he suffered severe, pervasive and offensive harassment, that effectively deprived him of the right of equal access to educational benefits and opportunities; (2) LMU had actual knowledge of that harassment; and (3) LMU acted with deliberate indifference in the face of such knowledge. (Ibid.)¿ Here, the parties focus their dispute on the third element, i.e., whether LMU and/or its employee designated to respond to Plaintiff’s claims of harassment acted with “deliberate indifference.” A Plaintiff alleging deliberate indifference is required to demonstrate that the school’s actions amounted to “ ‘an official decision … not to remedy’” the discrimination. (Oden v. N. Marianas Coll. (9th Cir. 2006) 440 F.3d 1085, 1089.) Further, the Plaintiff must show that the school’s deliberate indifference must have subjected the student to harassment. (Davis v. Monroe Cty. Bd. Of Educ. (1999) 526 U.S. 629, 644.)  As noted by LMU, Plaintiff’s allegations that he was harassed based on sexual or gender orientation fall into two categories: (1) the bath video allegedly taken by Mozilo; and (2) the allegations that other students made offensive comments about his sexuality, implying that he was bisexual or homosexual.  The deliberate indifference contention is supported by Plaintiff’s references to LMU having failed to take affirmative steps to address the bullying or harassing comments by his golf teammates.   First, as to the bath video, LMU argues that although D’Amore was aware of the bath video in 2018, Plaintiff complained to D’Amore and/or McCabe about it in 2019 and 2020, that Plaintiff mentioned the bath video to professors Edwards and Avalos in 2021, and finally disclosed the bath video to Pintens in June 2021, all of the LMU employees are merely designated to report the complaints, not ones who are the “appropriate persons” whose knowledge is imputed to LMU. However, the Court notes that although the employees who Plaintiff made aware of the bath video may have not been DPS or the Title IX coordinator, all of those individuals are mandatory reporters of Plaintiff’s complaints.   LMU’s UF No. 62 indicates that until Pintens in June of 2021, the other employees failed to report Plaintiff’s claims to DPS. LMU attempts to draw an incomplete analogy to the United States Court of Appeal for the Fifth Circuit case of Rosa H. v. San Elizario Independent School Dist. (1997) 106 F.3d 648, 660-661 when asserting that the case indicated that notice of harassment by employees who lacked authority, beyond reporting the misconduct to other employees, is insufficient to trigger a school’s liability under Title IX. However, this exact analysis is not per se implied or indicated in Rosa H., and was instead a fact-based analysis as to the school placing a duty to supervise certain employees of other students.  Plaintiff’s Opposition appears to argue that a triable issue of fact exists as to the imputed knowledge of the coaches, athletic directors, or professors.  The argument, as the Court understands it, is that the fact that a mandatory reporter has knowledge of facts could be found by the jury to impute their knowledge to LMU, i.e., constructive notice or implied ratification even if not actual notice to DPS or the Title IX coordinator until June of 2021.  Evidence can either direct or circumstantial; here the direct evidence is that the mandatory reporters failed to report the conduct.  Certainly, the evidence cited in UF 62 stands for the proposition that these individuals were “only reporters” as opposed to the “appropriate persons” whose actual knowledge is imputed to LMU.  An entity can be liable for its employees’ acts where the entity either authorized the tortious act or subsequently ratified an originally unauthorized tort. (Shultz Steel Co. v. Hartford Accident & Indemnity Co. (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 513, 519; Civil Code § 2339.) The theory of ratification can be applied “where an employer fails to investigate or respond to charges that an employee committed an intentional tort, such as assault or battery.  . . . Whether an employer has ratified an employee's conduct is generally a factual question.”  (Baptist v. Robinson (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 151, 169–170.)   On the other hand, a ratification or imputed knowledge theory seems to have been rejected in an Education Code cause of action in Donovan v. Poway Unified School District (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 567, 605:1 “We decline to adopt a liability standard for damages under section 220 based on principles of respondeat superior and/or constructive notice, particularly in light of the circumstances presented here, when the claim of discrimination is not, for example, based on an official policy of the District, but is instead the result of peer sexual orientation harassment and the District's response (or lack thereof) to such harassment. We agree with Gebser and Davis that negligence principles should not apply to impose liability under a statutory scheme when administrative enforcement of that scheme contemplates actual notice to the funding recipient, with an opportunity to take corrective action before a private action may lie. By requiring actual notice, we ensure liability for money damages under section 220 is based on a funding recipient's own misconduct, determined by its own deliberate indifference to known acts of harassment.” Donovan rejected the Plaintiff’s argument there that FEHA theories including imputed knowledge should apply to an Education Code §220 cause of action for money damages.  However, Donovan was decided under Section 220 and as discussed with respect to the fourth cause of action below, that statute does not appear to apply to a postsecondary institution such as a University.  The Court will allow oral argument as to whether a constructive notice or imputed notice would be sufficient to raise a triable issue of fact on the first cause of action, or whether as a matter of law the administrative scheme in the Education Code required Plaintiff to have notified the “appropriate persons” rather than a mandatory reporter.  There is no dispute that the appropriate persons were not provided actual notice until after all or virtually all of Plaintiff’s alleged injuries had occurred.  The tentative is thus to ARGUE the motion as to the first cause of action.   Plaintiff’s Claim for Discrimination under The Unruh Civil Rights Act   Second, LMU argues that Plaintiff cannot maintain a claim for discrimination under the Unruh Civil Rights Act on the grounds that: (1) LMU is not a “business establishment,” and is not subject to the UCRA; and (2) Plaintiff cannot establish any actionable discrimination by LMU.   LMU argues that it is not a “business establishment” under the UCRA as it is a religiously-affiliated school. Pursuant to 20 USCA § 1681(a)(4), title IX does “not apply to an educational institution which is controlled by a religious organization if the application of this subsection would not be consistent with the religious tenets of such organization.” LMU attempts to analogize the case at bar to that of Doe v. Cal. Lutheran High Sch. Assn. (2009) 170 Cal.App.4th 828. However, LMU has not alleged the same or similar breadth of facts as the Lutheran school in that case. LMU, for example, does not have a statement that expresses the school was open for admission to Roman Catholic families and to other “families…who are in harmony with the policies and principles of [their] school.”  In fact, LMU’s mission statement indicates that it provides touchstones for understanding of LMU’s threefold mission. This is the only UF evidenced in LMU’s argument as to this section. This statement alone does not indicate to this Court that like the school in Doe or Valley Christian Academy is exempt from the Unruh Civil Rights Act.  There is no evidence before the Court that Plaintiff’s sexual orientation was known or disclosed to or even suspected by the coaches, staff, administrators, Title IX coordinator or anyone else until the email from Plaintiff’s father on January 2, 2019 at the earliest, and possibly until the October 26, 2020 Wayne Jones COVID party video, both of which were after the Bath Video, some of the alleged harassment, and alleged overdose had already occurred.      Further, if LMU is not exempt from UCRA, it argues that Plaintiff cannot establish that LMU denied any services because of his gender or actual/perceived sexual orientation. Plaintiff argues that LMU employee D’Amore treated him unfairly because of his sexuality as he did not “step in” to address the bullying because of Plaintiff’s sexual orientation. LMU’s argument in this section relies only on Plaintiff’s deposition and argues mainly that Plaintiff will need more to meet his evidentiary burden. However, on a motion for summary judgement, the initial burden is on the moving party – here, LMU. LMU does not provide evidence or even argument that there are no triable issues of fact as to whether Plaintiff was discriminated against. While there is evidence that D’Amore asked Plaintiff to keep information about Plaintiff’s taking anti-depressants, such evidence and D/Amore’s actions thereafter do not prove a lack of discrimination.   As such, LMU has failed to carry its initial burden, and the motion is DENIED as to this issue.   Education Code Section 220 Does Not Apply to LMU  Next, LMU contends that the Education Code section 220 claim should be dismissed because that section does not apply to postsecondary institutions, such as LMU.  The Court finds that LMU is correct. Section 221 clearly states that the “article shall not apply to an educational institution that is controlled by a religious organization if the application would not be consistent with religious tenets of that organization. (Edu. Code, §221.) However, more importantly for this motion, Education Code section 210.3 defines an “Educational Institution” for the purposes of the Code, as “a public or private preschool, elementary, or secondary school or institution…” (Edu. Code, § 210.3.) Defendant relies on the unpublished federal case of Karasek v. Regents of the Univ. of California (N.D. Ca. Dec. 11, 2015) No. 15-CV-03717-WHO, 2015 WL 8527338, where the United States District Court tackled this very issue, finding that “section 220 does not apply to a postsecondary institution such as [a] University.” Further, the Court noted that any ambiguity in the meaning of “secondary institution or school” is eliminated by Education Code section 66261.5 and other provisions in that chapter of the California Education Code, which makes clear the distinction between “secondary” and “postsecondary” as used in the Code.   As such, this Court notes that because Plaintiff has made the claim above for violation of Education Code based on the different section of the Code, like in Karasek, the Court is persuaded by the distinguishing of secondary versus postsecondary, and finds that Plaintiff cannot maintain a cause of action against LMU based on Education Code section 220. As such, summary adjudication is GRANTED as to this cause of action.   Plaintiff’s Negligence Claim   LMU next argues that Plaintiff’s negligence claim fails because it had no duty to protect Plaintiff from purely emotional harm. LMU relies on the recent decision of Thomas v. Regents of Univ. of Cal. (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 587 (“Thomas”). Thomas involved a public university, the University of California, the Tort Claims Act, and governmental immunity, none of which are presented here.  Thomas did involve a claim against a college sports team coach and alleged bullying behavior that created a hostile environment.  Thomas also was a demurrer case and the sufficiency of allegations, not a summary judgment case, but in each the existence of a legal duty owed on a common law negligence theory is presented so the factual points of distinction do not militate against this Court’s consideration of the legal doctrine evaluated.  The First District Court of Appeal in Thomas evaluated the question of law as to whether the soccer coach and the university owed the plaintiff there a special duty to protect her from foreseeable injury.   The First District analyzed the leading cases on the expansion of tort duties of care, including Regents of Univ. of California v. Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th 607 and C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High Sch. Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861.  Regents recognized a “special relationship ... in the college setting,” concluding “postsecondary schools do have a special relationship with students while they are engaged in activities that are part of the school's curriculum or closely related to its delivery of educational services.” (Regents, supra, 4 Cal.5th at pp. 624-625.)  The existence of a special relationship imposes “obligations beyond what each person generally owes others under Civil Code section 1714,” including “the duty to use reasonable measures to protect students from foreseeable injury at the hands of third parties acting negligently or intentionally.” (CA, supra, 53 Cal.4th at p. 870.) Plaintiff’s opposition brief argues that because of the special relationship between universities and their students, LMU owed a duty to protect students from harm from third parties absent reasons to depart from that rule. Further, Plaintiff argues that the Rowland and Regents factors, do not favor excusing universities from the duty to exercise care in protecting students with which the universities have a special relationship merely because the injury is not accompanied by a physical attack. Plaintiff suggests that this argument would run counter to what the California Supreme Court in cases such as Molien v. Kaiser Foundation Hospitals (1980) 27 Cal.3d 916 have held – that a plaintiff may recover for purely emotional injury unaccompanied by physical injury where the risk of emotional harm to the plaintiff was reasonably foreseeable to the defendant. Plaintiff cites to the federal case of Walsh v. Tehachapi Unified School Dist. (2014) 997 F.Supp.2d 1071, to argue that there, the United States District Court for the Eastern District of California noted (not held as suggested by Plaintiff), that it presumed for the purposes of the motion that the Defendants there owed a duty to decedent and that Defendants breached that duty by failing to stop, remedy, and prevent the in-school harassment and bullying of Decedent. Further, the Walsh Court noted that it was also undisputed that it was foreseeable that this breach would cause Decedent to suffer mental or emotional distress.  Plaintiff here has developed his duty theory more fully than the thin allegations and limited briefing in Thomas where the appellate court found a lack of sufficient allegations or citations bearing on the claimed duty of a university to protect students from harm of a non-physical nature.  While it is true that the school- or college-student relationship precedents discussed in Regents and C.A. involved claims of physical violence or sexual abuse, the Thomas Court did not rule as a matter of law that there can never be such a duty in the absence of physical injury.  In fact, the decision noted: “This is not to say sexual harassment in the form alleged in this case does not cause significant harm, nor that a university may never be held to have a duty to protect its students from non-physical injuries. We simply are not prepared to take the step Thomas suggests on the basis of the briefing she has provided.”  (Thomas, supra, 97 Cal.App.5th at pp. 627–628.)  Here, Plaintiff Doe has pleaded the negligence duty more extensively than in Thomas, cited to several precedents finding a duty to protect a plaintiff in a special relationship from harm of a non-physical nature, and has more extensively briefed the application of the Rowland factors in determining the scope of the duty.  This Court finds that such a negligence duty of care does exist as owed by a post-secondary school to a student athlete, that there is a higher degree of certainty that a gay student who had not come out to his teammates or fellow students would sustain emotional injuries when publicly “outed” in an embarrassing way, and that the Legislature has attached moral blame to discrimination or unequal treatment on the basis of sexual orientation, all of which sufficient to create a duty for a general negligence cause of action on the facts presented here.   As such, the Court finds that LMU failed to carry its initial burden, and the motion as it relates to the negligence cause of action and the claimed absence of the essential element of a duty of care is DENIED.   Plaintiff’s Breach of Contract claim   LMU next argues that Plaintiff’s breach of contract claim fails because Plaintiff has failed to identify any express written contract term he contends was breached, and instead claims LMU breached an implied contractual duty. Specifically, Plaintiff alleges that he had a contractual relationship with LMU through LMU’s student handbook and student regulations where LMU was required to act in accordance with this handbook and regulations in addressing complaints of abuse, retaliation, discrimination, and harassment, investigating Plaintiff’s complaints, and taking action to remedy the misconduct, discipline persons engaged in the misconduct, and to protect Plaintiff. (FAC, ¶ 95.)   LMU argues in its moving papers that California courts have been reluctant to apply contract law to general promises or expectations or have been reluctant to apply contract law to universities’ academic and disciplinary decisions.  However, the moving papers fail to provide evidence to suggest that no triable issue of fact exists as to Plaintiff’s breach of contract claim. The only cited to evidence in LMU’s moving papers is that in Plaintiff’s deposition and discovery responses, he failed to identify any policy that LMU purportedly breached, or a specific policy or contract term that was breached. This is simply not enough to shift LMU’s initial burden.  LMU conceded that California Courts have found that a contractual relationship between students and universities can be created by the terms of the relationship described in a student handbook.   The Court finds that LMU has failed to satisfy its initial burden in showing that no triable issue of material fact exists as to the Plaintiff’s breach of contract cause of action. The motion is DENIED as to this cause of action.   Plaintiff’s Punitive Damages   Lastly, LMU argues that Plaintiff cannot recover punitive damages against LMU because Plaintiff has not shown, by clear and convincing evidence, that an officer, director, or managing agent of LMU acted with malice, oppression, or fraud and that LMU had advanced knowledge and conscious disregard, authorized, or ratified such conduct.   Again, because this Court finds that LMU has failed to carry its initial burden of showing that no triable issues of fact exist as to the causes of action invoking punitive damages, and that LMU’s only arguments in this section are about how Plaintiff cannot carry its shifted burden, this Court also DENIES the motion as to this section. The denial is without prejudice to a motion in limine under Civil Code section 3295 or to a possible bifurcation motion.    III. CONCLUSIONFor the foregoing reasons, LMU’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED only as to Violation of Education Code section 220, to be argued as to the first cause of action, and is otherwise DENIED pending oral argument.    Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice.   