  Case Number:  21STCV36897    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENATIVE RULING
 



KAMRAN SADEGHIAN, et al. 
  
        
  vs.
 
ARIAN EGHBALI, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  21STCV36897
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 1, 2024


 
Plaintiffs’
motion for leave to amend to file an SAC is GRANTED.
 
On 10/6/2021,
Plaintiffs Kamran Sadeghian and Shima Nikfarjam (collectively, Plaintiffs)
filed suit against Arain Eghbali, Enrihc Financial, Inc., and Peak Foreclosure
Services, Inc., alleging: (1) quiet title; (2) cancellation of written
instrument based upon fraud; (3) cancellation of written instrument based upon
non-delivery; (4) recission; (5) slander; (6) fraud; (7) violation of
California Business and Professions Code; (8) declaratory relief; and (9)
injunctive relief.
 
            On
1/17/2024, Plaintiff moved for leave to amend a second amended complaint (SAC).

 
Discussion 
 
            Plaintiffs
seek leave to amend to clarify their allegations. 
 
            In
its ruling on Plaintiffs’ MSJ, the Court noted that Plaintiff was raising
arguments which did not appear in the four corners of the Complaint. More
specifically, Plaintiff was arguing that Plaintiff Shima Nikfarjam did not sign
a promissory note and did not provide consent to her spouse, Plaintiff Kamran
Sadeghian, to sign on her behalf. However, Plaintiff’s underlying complaint did
not contain such allegations, but rather was predicted on fraudulent inducement, a lack of
understanding of what was being signed, and a lack of consideration for the
promissory note and deed of trust. (Complaint ¶¶ 69,70.)
 
            As
a result, Plaintiffs, who are representing themselves in pro per, now seek to
amend their Complaint to incorporate allegations that Plaintiff Shima Nikfarjam
did not sign a promissory note and did not provide consent to her spouse,
Plaintiff Kamran Sadeghian, to sign on her behalf.
 
The
policy favoring leave to amend is so strong that it is an abuse of discretion
to deny an amendment unless the adverse party can show meaningful prejudice. (Atkinson
v. Elk Corp. (2003) 109 Cal.App.4th 739, 761.) 
 
Here,
the Court finds insufficient prejudice to warrant a denial of leave of amend.
First, Plaintiffs do not seek to add any new cause of action or assert a new
and different legal obligation. Rather, Plaintiffs seek to clarify their
allegations as to why they contend the grant deed conveyance is invalid.
Second, trial is not until August 19, 2024. Third, Defendant has been on notice
of Plaintiffs’ contention that the promissory note was invalid because Plaintiff
Shima Nikfarjam neither signed the promissory note nor gave permission to her
husband to sign on her behalf. Fourth, given the specificity of Plaintiffs’
allegations, and the fact that if established they would be meritorious,
Plaintiffs would be severely prejudiced if denied the opportunity to amend
their Complaint. 
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to amend to file an SAC is granted. 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  May   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 