 Case Number:  23STCV07048    Hearing Date:   May 1, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DANIEL ELIEZER CORRAL PULIDO 
                           
         vs.
 
BMW OF NORTH AMERICA, LLC, et al.

 


 Case No.: 
  23STCV07048 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  May 1, 2024
 



 
 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel
further responses to Special Interrogatories Nos. 14, 20, and 23 is GRANTED.
Defendant is sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel, $700.00. 
 
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to RFPs is GRANTED IN PART, DENIED IN PART.
As such, the Court declines to award sanctions at this time.
 
            On
3/30/2023, Plaintiff Daniel Eliezer Corral Pulido (Plaintiff) filed suit
against BMW of North America, LLC, and Del Montell Motors, LTD dba Santa Monica
BMW, alleging violations of the Song-Beverly Act.
 
            On
12/28/2023, Plaintiff moves to compel further responses to his Special
Interrogatories (Set One) and to his Requests for Production (RFPs) (Set One). 
            
            The motions
are unopposed. 
 
Discussion 
 
I.                  
Special Interrogatories
 
Plaintiff seeks to compel further
responses to Special Interrogatories Nos. 14, 20, and 23:
 
-         
SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 14: IDENTIFY
all PERSONS who performed warranty repairs upon the SUBJECT VEHICLE.
 
-         
SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 20: IDENTIFY
all PERSONS who inspected or tested the SUBJECT VEHICLE during the RELEVANT
PERIOD.
 
-         
SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 43: Identify
all individuals responsible for YOUR decision whether or not to repurchase or
replace the Subject Vehicle.
 
The Court agrees that Plaintiff is
entitled to know who these witnesses are in order to depose them and prepare
for trial. 
 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s
motion to compel further responses to Special Interrogatories Nos. 14, 20, and
23 is granted. Defendant is sanctioned, jointly and severally with counsel,
$700. ($350/hr x 2 hr.)
 
II.               
RFPs
 
Plaintiffs
argue that good cause exists to compel further responses to his RFP Nos. 2-4,
6, 10-12, 16- 17, 20, 22-26, 28-29, 37-39, and 41-98
 
After review
of the relevant discovery responses, the Court finds some of Plaintiff’s
requests to be overly broad in scope. For example, Plaintiff seeks all
documents from 1/4/2014 to present which refer or relate to all same
year, make and model vehicles as the subject vehicle which have been repurchased
or replaced by Defendant, regardless of the reason for repurchase or
replacement. However, the Court also finds certain objections by Defendant to
be unfounded. For example, Defendant argues that customer complaints concerning
vehicles other than the subject vehicle are irrelevant.
 
 In addition to all requested materials related
to Plaintiff’s car itself:
 
1.     
Defendant shall produce the “Warranty
Policy and Procedure Manual” published by Defendant and provided to its
authorized repair facilities, within the State of California, for the period of
purchase to present.
 
2.     
Defendant shall produce any internal
analysis or investigation regarding defects concerning the transmission defect
in vehicles for the same year, make, and model of the subject vehicle.
 
3.     
 Defendant shall produce any customer
complaints relating to defects that are similar to the alleged defects claimed
by plaintiff in vehicles within California for the same year, make, and model
of the subject vehicle, for the period of purchase to present.
 
4.     
 Defendant shall produce all documents
evidencing policies and procedures used to evaluate customer requests for
repurchase pursuant to the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act, for the period
of purchase to present.
 
5.     
 Technical Service Bulletins and Recall Notices
for vehicles purchased in California for the same year, make and model of the
subject vehicle. 
 
6.     
  All other requests for further
production are DENIED.
 
Based on the
foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion is granted in part, denied in part. As such, the
Court declines to award sanctions at this time. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  May   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 
 
 
 
 