  Case Number:  22TRCV00956    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  P Motion for Summary Judgment or in the Alternative Summary AdjudicationMoving Party: Defendants IHG Management LLC and HPT TRS IHG-2-IncResponding Party: Plaintiff Beth HurewitzRuling: Defendants IHG Management LLC and HPT TRS IHG-2-Inc’s Motion for Summary Judgment is DENIED. The Court GRANTS summary adjudication of Plaintiff’s first, fourth, and seventh cause of action for negligence, negligent infliction of emotional distress, and private nuisance in favor of the Defendants as they are barred under the statute of limitations.Moving party is to give notice.The Court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.BACKGROUNDOn October 14, 2022, Plaintiff Beth Hurewitz (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant IHG Management LLC and TRS IHG-2 Inc. (“Defendants”) for (1) Negligence; (2) Negligent Failure to Disclose Latent Defect; (3) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress; (4) Breach of Contract; (5) Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; (6) Private Nuisance; and (7) Unfair Business Practices under Business and Professions Code §§ 17200, et seq., 17500.On November 18, 2022 Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for (1) Negligence; (2) Fraud — Negligent Misrepresentation; (3) Fraud — Intentional Misrepresentation; (4) Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress; (5) Breach of Contract; (6) Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; (7) Private Nuisance; and (8) Unfair Business Practices under Business and Professions Code §§ 17200, et seq., 17500. — Negligent Misrepresentation.Defendants jointly filed their Answer to the FAC on March 6, 2023On March 7, 2023, Defendants filed a Cross-Complaint against Plaintiff for (1) Implied Equitable Indemnity; (2) Express Contractual Indemnity; (3) Implied Contractual Indemnity; (4) Contribution; (6) Appointment of Fault; and (7) Declaratory Relief.Plaintiff filed her Answer to the Cross-Complaint on April 28, 2023.On February 28, 2024, Defendants filed the instant motion for summary judgment and in the alternative summary adjudication. Plaintiff filed her opposition and a declaration on May 8, 2024. Defendant’s reply and objections were filed May 17, 2024.Defendants object to the declaration and various exhibits attached to the declaration of Carlos De La Paz:1) Exhibit 1 (Authentication of Entire Exhibit): Sustained2) Exhibit 6a. Page 37:20-25 (Hearsay): Overruledb. Page 38:1-2 (Hearsay, Relevance): Overruledc. Page 37:20-25: Duplicative3) Declarationa. Paragraph 2: Overruledb. Paragraph 3(a-k): SustainedSTATEMENT OF FACTSPlaintiff Beth Hurewitz (hereinafter “Hurewitz”) entered into a commercial lease for space within the Crowne Plaza Hotel in Redondo Beach, California on September 5, 2019. (Undisputed Material Fact (“UMF”) 1.) The lease provided that Hurewitz would use the space for a business that would provide spa and massage services. (Defendant’s Compendium of Exhibits, Exh. A (hereinafter “Lease”), section I(B). The owner of the Hotel is HPT TRS IHG-2, Inc. (hereinafter “HTP”), and the Hotel is managed by IHG Management (Maryland) LLC.Hurewitz took possession of the space on or about September 5, 2019 and maintained exclusive possession of the space for the periods of time relevant to this lawsuit. (UMF 5.) After taking possession, Hurewitz began to experience symptoms of illness in December of 2019. (UMF 6.) She became aware that there was mold in the heating, ventilation and air conditioning ducts on March 11, 2020. (UMF 6.) Hurewitz believes she became ill because of the mold in the ducts. (UMF 8.)Hurewitz testified that she spoke with “Winnie Kwok” in April 2019 about operating a spa within the Hotel. (De La Paz Decl. Exh. 5.) Ms. Kwok told Hurewitz that the Hotel “will beinspecting” or “will be cleaning” the space Hurewitz was interested in leasing. (Id. at Exh. 6.) Hurewitz did not negotiate or sign a lease agreement with Ms. Kwok. (Id.)The Lease signed by Hurewitz had the following language in Section VII (titled “Indemnification”):Lessee further releases Lessor and Manager from liability for any damages sustained by Lessee or any other person claiming by, through or under Lessee due to the Leased Premises, the Hotel, or any part thereof or any appurtenances thereto becoming out of repair, or due to the happening of any accident, including by ont limited to any damage caused by water, snow, windstorm, tornado, gas, steam, electrical wiring, sprinkler system, plumbing, heating and air conditioning apparatus and from any acts or omissions of tenants or other occupants of the Hotel…Lessee hereby expressly releases and discharges Lessor and Manager from any and all liability and responsibility for any loss, injury, or damage incurred or claimed by reason of damage to property located on the Leased Premises that is owned, leased, managed, or controlled by Lessee, regardless whether such loss, injury, or damage is caused by the negligence of the Manager, Lessor or Lessor’s agents or other tenants. (Lease, p. 7.)Hurewitz testified that someone told her that there was mold in the HVAC cabinet and that “Somebody has peeled away the outer layer of drywall.” (De La Paz Decl. Exh. 10, 48:11-17.) Hurewitz further testified that she hired a mold testing company to test both her apartment and the leased space. However, all the evidence submitted in support of this assertion is hearsay. As such, it is not admissible evidence which can be considered in defense of this motion.DISCUSSIONDefendants pray for an order for summary judgment and in the alternative for summary adjudication as to Plaintiff’s FAC on the grounds that Defendants have complete defenses to each cause of action alleged in the FAC.In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the Motion fails because there are triable issues of fact as to Plaintiff’s causes of action as alleged in the FAC, and Defendants cannot establish a complete defense.A party seeking summary judgment has the burden of producing evidentiary facts sufficient to entitle him/her to judgment as a matter of law. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(c).) The moving party must make an affirmative showing that he/she is entitled to judgment irrespective of whether or not the opposing party files an opposition. (Villa v. McFerren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 733, 742- 743.) Thus, “the initial burden is always on the moving party to make prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519 (citing Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) When a defendant seeks summary judgment, he/she must produce admissible evidence that either one or more elements of a cause of action cannot be established or that there is a complete defense to that cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).) The moving party’s “affidavits must cite evidentiary facts, not legal conclusions, or ‘ultimate’ facts” and the courts must construe the evidence in support of the opposing party, resolving any doubts in favor of the opposing party. (Hayman v. Block (1986) 176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639; Scalf, 128 Cal.App.4th at 1519; Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)The opposing party on a motion for summary judgment is under no evidentiary burden to produce rebuttal evidence until the moving party meets his or her initial movant’s burden. (Binder v. Aetna Life Insurance Company (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 832, 840.) Once the initial movant’s burden is met, then the burden shifts to the opposing party to show, with admissible evidence, that there is a triable issue requiring the weighing procedures of trial. (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p).) The opposing party may not simply rely on his/her allegations to show a triable issue but must present evidentiary facts that are substantial in nature and rise beyond mere speculation. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 162.) Summary judgment must be granted “if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)As to any alternative request for summary adjudication of issues, such alternative relief must be clearly set forth in the Notice of Motion and the general burden-shifting rules apply but the issues upon which summary adjudication may be sought are limited by statute. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(f)(1).) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Id.)Exculpatory ClauseDefendants contend that the exculpatory provisions contained in Section VII of the lease constitute a complete defense to all causes of action alleged in the Complaint.Defendants provide evidence that Plaintiff contracted to release IHG its agents and employees, as well as IHG’s Manager and its Manager’s employees from any liability to Plaintiff for “personal injury, death, property damage or otherwise arising out of [Plaintiff’s] use and occupation of the Lease Premises.” (UMF#2; COE Ex. A) The Lease Agreement released the Defendants “from any and all liability and responsibility for any loss, injury or damage incurred or claimed by reason of damage to property located on the Leased Premises.” (UMF#3,4 COE Ex. A) Defendants argue that each of the negligence actions are based on Plaintiff’s claims she suffered personal injury when allegedly exposed to mold in the leased unit. Finally, Plaintiff cannot establish a breach of duty because Defendants’ alleged duty to inspect was waived by Plaintiff in the contract. Plaintiff took the unit “as is” and acknowledged no promises regarding the condition of the premises were made to her. (Id.) Based on this, the Court finds that Defendants have satisfied their burden under Code of Civil Procedure § 437c(p)(2).In opposition, Plaintiff argues that there is material evidence that Defendants knew about or should have known about the HVAC problem, the water leak, and the mold growth before leasing the property to Plaintiff. Plaintiff provides evidence that once she suspected that she was being exposed to mold, she hired a mold investigator to test the rental unit for mold. (De La Paz Decl. ¶ 2, Ex. 1; Molony Decl. ¶ 6, Exh. D.)“[I]t is well established that that the tenant under a commercial lease may agree to limit the scope of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, whether express or implied, as well as the implied covenant of fair dealing. Frittelli, Inc. v. 350 N. Canon Drive, LP (2011) 202 Cal. App. 4th 35, 43 (internal citations omitted). “Courts have affirmed lease terms that exempted the landlord fromliability arising from conduct by the landlord and neighboring, as well as lease terms that limited the tenant's remedies for breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment.” Id. (internal citations omitted). However, to the extent a contract seeks to “shield the lessor and its agents from liability for negligence, the exemption is subject to the public policy disfavoring attempts by contract to limit liability for future torts.” Id. A commercial lease between business entities does not implicate the “public interest;” however, an exculpatory clause within such a lease is “subject to special scrutiny, insofar as it purports to exempt the lessor from liability from ordinary negligence.” Id. at 43-44.When assessing the impact of an exculpatory clause in the context of a motion for summary judgment, the court must look “at the plain language of the clause, viewed within the lease as a whole and examine whether the clause clearly discloses an intent to exempt the lessor from liability for ordinary negligence.” Garcia v. D/AQ Corporation (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 902, 908. If a lessee alleged that the lessor committed “ordinary, passive negligence [such as] the failure to discover a dangerous condition or to perform a duty imposed by law” an exculpatory clause shields the lessor from liability. Id. at 910. That shield is enforceable “when the parties knowingly bargain for the protection.” Id.In this case, Hurewitz asserts that there was mold in the space she leased and asserts that Defendants had an obligation to inspect and remediate it. However, she provides no admissible evidence to support her assertion that Defendants knew or should have known about the issue. Even if the court were to conclude that Defendants had a duty to learn of the existence of mold, the lease provides Defendants a shield to liability. This case is not legally distinguishable from Frittelli or Garcia – at best, Defendants committed “ordinary, passive negligence” and the Lease “expressly releases and discharges [Defendants] from any and all liability [for damage to Plaintiff]…caused by the negligence [of Defendants].” Lease at VII.Given the above, Defendants’ Motion for Summary Adjudication as to the causes of action alleging ordinary negligence is GRANTED.Statute of LimitationsDefendants argue that the first cause of action for Negligence, the fourth cause of action for Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress, the sixth cause of action for Breach of Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment, and the seventh cause of action for Private Nuisance are all time-barred by the applicable two-year statutes of limitation.Under Code of Civil Procedure § 335.1, an action for assault, battery, or injury to, or for the death of, an individual caused by the wrongful act or neglect of another must be brought within two years. (Code Civ. Proc. § 335.1)Judicial Council Emergency Rule 9, subdivision (a), states, “Notwithstanding any otherlaw, the statutes of limitations and repose for all civil causes of action that exceed 180 days are tolled from April 6, 2020, until October 1, 2020.” (Cal. Rules of Court, Appendix I, Emergency rule 9.)Here, Defendants meet their burden by providing evidence that Plaintiff discovered the presence of mold and its alleged impact on her health on March 11, 2020. (UMF 6 COE Ex. B, Ex. C) Defendants note that the statute of limitations was tolled by the Covid-19 pandemic and theJudicial Counsel Emergency Rule 9. The last day for Plaintiff to file a negligence action was September 8, 2022. Plaintiff, however, did not file this action until October 14, 2022. Thus, Defendants have met their evidentiary burden under Code of Civil Procedure § 437c(p)(2).In opposition, Plaintiff argues that her claims for Quiet Enjoyment and private nuisance actions are not barred under the statute of limitations because they are subject to a four-year and three-year statute of limitations, respectively.Here, since the sixth cause of action for breach of quiet enjoyment stems from a breach of the party's lease agreement, the statute of limitations for the claim would be four years. (Kumar v. Ramsey, (2021) 71 Cal.App.5th 1110.) The Court disagrees, however, with the Plaintiff’s contention that a three-year statute of limitation applies to the seventh cause of action for private nuisance. A private nuisance action claiming injury to real property is subject to a three-year statute of limitations under Code of Civil Procedure § 338. A private nuisance claiming a personal injury is subject to the two-year statute of limitations under Code of Civil Procedure § 335.1.Plaintiff’s nuisance action arises from the injuries she sustained to her health due to the mold. Thus, the nuisance claim would be subject to the two-year statute of limitations. Therefore, the Court finds that Defendants are entitled to summary adjudication on Plaintiff’s first cause of action for Negligence, fourth cause of action for Negligent Infliction of Emotional Distress, and seventh cause of action for private nuisance.Fraud – Intentional and Negligent MisrepresentationDefendants contend that Plaintiff’s causes of action for negligent and intentional misrepresentation fail because Plaintiff cannot establish that Defendants made any misrepresentations regarding the condition of the unit when entering the lease.“[A] cause of action for negligent misrepresentation typically is subject to a two-year limitations period. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 339; Ventura County Nat. Bank v. Macker (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1528, 1530–1531, 57 Cal.Rptr.2d 418. See generally, 1 Schwing, Cal. Affirmative Defenses, supra, § 25:21, pp. 1415–1416, fns. 8–9.) That same two-year period generally applies to actions ‘upon a contract, obligation or liability not founded upon an instrument of writing....’ (Code Civ. Proc., § 339, subd. 1.) A cause of action for fraud or mistake is governed by a three-year statute of limitations. (Code Civ. Proc., § 338, subd. (d).) And the limitations period for a written contract is four years.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Services (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1316.” “Where more than one statute might apply to a particular claim, ‘a specific limitations provision prevails over a more general provision.’” (Id.)“The elements of a cause of action for intentional misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation, (2) with knowledge of its falsity, (3) with the intent to induce another’s reliance on the misrepresentation, (4) actual and justifiable reliance, and (5) resulting damage.” (Daniels v. Select Portfolio Servicing, Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1150, 1166.) The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)Defendants provide evidence that IHG did not know there was mold in Plaintiff’s unit nor that they represented that the unit was free of any dangerous conditions when it was leased to Plaintiff. (UMF#3, 4; Ex B ¶9-24; Plaintiff’s Deposition Testimony Ex G 50:4-12.) Defendants further argue that Plaintiff fails to identify the person or people who guaranteed these conditions and, as a result, cannot prove misrepresentation. Thus based on this, Defendants satisfy their burden under Code of Civil Procedure § 437c(p)(2).In opposition, Plaintiff provides evidence that in June of 2019, Defendant’s agent, Ms. Kwok represented to Plaintiff that Defendant IHG was inspecting and cleaning the Unit. (De La Paz Decl. Exh 6.) Plaintiff believed that Defendant had the responsibility to make sure the Unit was safe before Defendant turned it over. (Id. at Exh 12.)Plaintiff relies on a statement by Ms. Kwok in or around April of 2019, that the space would be “cleaned” or “inspected.” However, at the time the statement was made, the space was being used by a different tenant as a spa facility. (De La Paz Decl. Exh. 4.) Ms. Kwok was not a manager when Plaintiff signed the Lease and there is no allegation of any other conversation with an agent of Defendant prior to the Lease being signed. In addition, the Lease provides that the property will be delivered in “as is” condition. (UMF 3.)Given the evidence presented, there is, at best, a passing remark by an employee of Defendant that the space would be “inspected” or “cleaned” before the Lease began. That remark was made months prior to a lease being signed, months prior to Plaintiff’s walk-through of the property, and by an employee who was no longer employed by Defendants when the lease was signed. Finally, Plaintiff concedes that she spent significant sums of money renovating the space after the prior tenant left, suggesting that she was fully aware of any deficiencies with the leased space and had taken the space in “as-is condition.” Taken together, Plaintiff has not shown any evidence that Ms. Kwok made a misrepresentation or that Plaintiff relied on any misrepresentation to her detriment.Therefore, the Motion for Summary Adjudication as to the Second and Third causes of action for fraud are GRANTED.Unfair Business PracticesDefendants argue that Plaintiff’s cause of action for Unfair Business Practices fails because Plaintiff has failed to establish any evidence that Defendants engaged in unfair competition under Business & Professions Code. Section 17200.To set forth a claim for a violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200 (“UCL”), Plaintiff must establish Defendant was engaged in an “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising” and certain specific acts. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) A cause of action for unfair competition “is not an all-purpose substitute for a tort or contract action.” (Cortez v. Purolator Air Filtration Products Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 163, 173.)Plaintiff’s cause of action for Unfair Business Practices is predicated on her other cause of action for fraud. As the court GRANTS summary adjudication as to those causes of action, Defendants are entitled to judgment as a matter of law as to this cause of action.Punitive DamagesDefendants contend that there is no evidence to support a claim for exemplary damages because there is no evidence of any misrepresentation or fraud. As the court has determined that Plaintiff cannot prevail on her fraud causes of action, there is no basis for punitive damages.CONCLUSIONIn light of the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment.