 Case Number:  23TRCV01702    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  P MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Freddy Alberto RondonRESPONDING PARTY: Defendant American Honda Motor Co., Inc.,The Court has considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.BACKGROUNDThis is a lemon law action arising from an allegedly defective 2022 Honda Civic (the “Subject Vehicle”) that Plaintiff purchased on April 14, 2022. Over the next year, Plaintiff made three visits to Defendant’s authorized repair facility for issues with the vehicle slowing down on its own and alerting collision even though there were no obstacles in front of it, rattling noises coming from the front left side of the vehicle, and dashboard lights remaining illuminated. On Plaintiff’s last visit, a technician replaced the Subject Vehicle’s actuator.Plaintiff filed the operative Complaint against Defendants alleging various causes of action under the Song-Beverly Act and for negligent repair.Procedural BackgroundAccording to the declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel, Chris Grigoryan (“Grigoryan Decl.”): (1) on January 11, 2024, Plaintiff propounded Request for Production of Documents, Set Two (“RFP”) (Grigoryan Decl. at ¶ 14; Exh. 3); (2) on February 12, 2024, Defendant served its responses to Plaintiff’s RFPs (Id. at ¶ 15 and Exh. 4); (3) on February 15, 2024, Plaintiff initiated the meet and confer process by sending a letter to Defendant explaining the relevance of each request (Id. at ¶ 17 and Exh. 5); and (4) the parties continued to correspond via email and telephone, and agreed no narrow down the dispute to the RFPs at issue in this motion (Id. at ¶¶ 18-22).MEET AND CONFERThe meet and confer requirement has been met.DISCUSSIONUnder California Code of Civil Procedure, Section 2017.010 “any person may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” “Discovery may relate to the claim or defense of the party seekingdiscovery.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) “The Court shall limit the scope of discovery if it determines that the burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” (Lipton v. Superior Court (1996) 48 Cal.App.4th 1599, 1611.) “For discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement.” (Id.) Discovery statutes are “construed liberally in favor of disclosure.” (Obregon v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 434.) Where a party objects to a motion to compel, the burden is on the responding party to justify any objection. (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 22 Cal.4th 245, 255.) To support an objection to a request for production of documents, the objecting party has to establish the validity of its objections with supporting facts in order to meet its burden. (Southern Pac. Co. v. Superior Court (1969) 3 Cal.App.3d 195, 198.)Plaintiff’s RFPsPlaintiff filed a motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to Plaintiff’s RFP nos. 10, 14, 23, 24, 33, 37, 46, 47, 56, 60, 69, and 70. Plaintiff contends that these requests see Defendant’s internal investigations of defects in the Subject Vehicle. Specifically, nos. 10-32 concern electrical defects; nos. 33-55 concern structural defects, and nos. 56-78 concern suspension defects. Plaintiff does not request monetary sanctions.Plaintiff asserts that: (1) the scope of discovery is broad; (2) the requests are relevant and necessary to establish Plaintiff’s Song-Beverly claims; and (3) the prevailing authorities support discovery of documents relating to similar defects experienced by other customers.Defendant opposes Plaintiff’s motion on the grounds that: (1) Plaintiff’s motion seeks documents not requested in the RFP; (2) Plaintiff ignores Defendant’s substantive responses that it had no responsive documents; (3) nonconformities that the manufacturer has only been given one opportunity to fix are not actionable under the Song-Beverly Act; (4) Plaintiff’s RFPs are vague and overbroad; and (5) other consumers’ experiences are beyond the scope of discovery.The RFPs are at issue and their exact wording is shown below, with added emphasis on key words. In summary, Plaintiff seek documents relating to “field technical reports” which provide information on (a) warranty parts replacement trends, (b) common parts failures, (c) suggested repair procedures for commonly observed problems, and (d) repeat repair failures for three types of defects in 2022 Honda Civic vehicles: electrical, structural, and suspension defects.RFP no. 10 All DOCUMENTS, including ESI and electronic mails, concerning, referring, or relating to any field technical reports from YOUR agents, representatives, or employees to YOU which provide YOU with information relating to warranty parts replacement trends relating to the ELECTRICAL DEFECTS in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.14 All DOCUMENTS, including ESI and electronic mails, concerning, referring, or relating to any field technical reports from YOUR agents, representatives, or employees to YOU which provide YOU with information relating to common parts failures relating to the ELECTRICAL DEFECTS in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.23 All DOCUMENTS, including ESI and electronic mails, concerning, referring, or relating to any field technical reports from YOUR agents, representatives, or employees to YOU which provide YOU with information relating to suggested repair procedures for commonly observed problems relating to ELECTRICAL DEFECTS in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.24 All DOCUMENTS, including ESI and electronic mails, concerning, referring, or relating to any field technical reports from YOUR agents, representatives, or employees to YOU which provide YOU with information relating to repeat repair failures relating to ELECTRICAL DEFECTS in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.33 All DOCUMENTS, including ESI and electronic mails, concerning, referring, or relating to any field technical reports from YOUR agents, representatives, or employees to YOU which provide YOU with information relating to warranty parts replacementtrends relating to the STRUCTURAL DEFECTS in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.37 All DOCUMENTS, including ESI and electronic mails, concerning, referring, or relating to any field technical reports from YOUR agents, representatives, or employees to YOU which provide YOU with information relating to common parts failures relating to the STRUCTURAL DEFECTS in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.46 All DOCUMENTS, including ESI and electronic mails, concerning, referring, or relating to any field technical reports from YOUR agents, representatives, or employees to YOU which provide YOU with information relating to suggested repair procedures for commonly observed problems relating to STRUCTURAL DEFECTS in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.47 All DOCUMENTS, including ESI and electronic mails, concerning, referring, or relating to any field technical reports from YOUR agents, representatives, or employees to YOU which provide YOU with information relating to repeat repair failures relating to STRUCTURAL DEFECTS in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.56 All DOCUMENTS, including ESI and electronic mails, concerning, referring, or relating to any field technical reports from YOUR agents, representatives, or employees to YOU which provide YOU with information relating to warranty parts replacement trends relating to the SUSPENSION DEFECTS in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.60 All DOCUMENTS, including ESI and electronic mails, concerning, referring, or relating to any field technical reports from YOUR agents, representatives, or employees to YOU which provide YOU with information relating to common parts failures relating to the SUSPENSION DEFECTS in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.69 All DOCUMENTS, including ESI and electronic mails, concerning, referring, or relating to any field technical reports from YOUR agents, representatives, or employees to YOU which provide YOU with information relating to suggested repair procedures for commonly observed problems relating to SUSPENSION DEFECTS in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.70 All DOCUMENTS, including ESI and electronic mails, concerning, referring, or relating to any field technical reports from YOUR agents, representatives, or employees to YOU which provide YOU with information relating to repeat repair failures relating to SUSPENSION DEFECTS in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the Subject Vehicle.Plaintiff’s definition of the defects:7. “ELECTRICAL DEFECTS” shall be understood to mean such defects which result in symptoms including: defects causing the vehicle to slow down by itself with no other vehicles or objects around; defects causing the warning lights to turn on; defects resulting in DTC code C1110-13 and B2635-11; and/or other similar concerns identified in the repair history for the SUBJECT VEHICLE.8. “STRUCTURAL DEFECTS” shall be understood to mean such defects which result in symptoms including: defects involving a rattling noise coming from the left front of the engine bay; and/or other similar concerns identified in the repair history for the SUBJECT VEHICLE.9. “SUSPENSION DEFECT” shall be understood to mean such defects which result in symptoms including: defects causing the vehicle to brake itself with no cars around; defects resulting in DTC code C1110-13; defects leading to replace the left electric parking brake actuator circuit; and/or other similar concerns identified in the repair history for the SUBJECT VEHICLE.(Grigoryan Decl., Exh. 3.) Plaintiff does not define “field technical report”.Plaintiff contends that the requested documents are relevant to show the existence of defects not only in the Subject Vehicle but also other 2022 Honda Civics, as well as Defendant’s knowledge of such defects. Plaintiff contends that these documents evince necessary elements of Plaintiff’s Song-Beverly claims, and that Plaintiff’s expert requires the technical information requested to give reliable opinion testimony as to the nature of the defects.Defendant attacks the authorities Plaintiff cites. In his motion, Plaintiff relies heavily on Donlen v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138 and Doppes v. Bentley Motors, Inc. (2009) 174 Cal.App.4th 967 for the position that the scope of discovery is not limited to Plaintiff’s vehicle; rather, similar defects experienced by other customers are also discoverable. Defendant contends that there is no indication in these cases that the manufacturer ever raised an objection based on relevance during discovery and courts do not adjudicate matters that are not timely raise because they are considered waived. It is true that neither the Donlen court nor the Doppes court address the permissible scope of discovery. However, the cases’ procedural history show that trial courts routinely permit discovery of evidence pertaining to defects in vehicles other than the plaintiff’s vehicle.Nevertheless, the Court finds that Plaintiff’s RFPs are overbroad. Requests must be reasonably particularized from the perspective of the party burdened with producing the materials. (See Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 222). Plaintiff has limited the requests to defects that appeared in cars of the same year, make and model as the Subject Vehicle. However, Plaintiff failed to specifically identify the types of defects in those vehicles and their relevance to Plaintiff’s claims. As Defendant pointed out, Plaintiff’s motion argues for the production of information relating to Powertrain Control Modules, Body Control Modules, written warranties, warranty policies and procedures, how AHM handles customer complaints, and refund policies and procedures. (Motion, p. 8-10.) But none of that information is sought in the discovery requests at issue or the parties’ meet and confers.Plaintiff failed to define the term “field technical report”, which appears in every single RFP at issue in this motion.Further, as defined, the three types of defects for which Plaintiff seeks related discovery each combine seemingly distinct symptoms and include overbroad phrases, such as “shall be understood to mean such defects which result in symptoms including . . .”; “and/or similar concerns”, etc.Lastly, Plaintiff ignores that aside from objections, Defendant did provide substantive responses to the RFPs. (See, e.g., Defendant’s response to RFP no. 10, Grigoryan Decl., Exh. 3 [“Subject to and without waiving these objections, AHM is unable to comply with this request. AHM has made a diligent search and reasonable inquiry in an effort to comply with this request and has no field technical reports directed to warranty parts replacement trends and no responsive documents have ever existed.”].)CONCLUSIONPursuant to the discussion above, Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses to Plaintiff’s second set of requests for production is DENIED.Moving party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.