 Case Number:  23TRCV02355    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  P Moving Parties: Defendant Woodforest National BankResponding Party: Plaintiff PVR Group Inc.DEFENDANT WOODFOREST NATIONAL BANK’S DEMURRERRULINGThe Court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers. Defendant Woodforest National Bank’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED in its entirety as to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint. Plaintiff is granted 20 days leave to amend.BACKGROUNDProcedural BackgroundOn July 20, 2023, PVR Group, Inc. (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against Woodforest National Bank (Defendant) alleging claims in relation to breach of contract surrounding the terms of a loan. After the Court sustained Defendant’s initial demurrer to the Complaint, a First Amended Complaint (FAC) was filed on March 4, 2024. The FAC alleges six causes of action:1. Breach of Verbal Contract;2. Breach of Implied In Fact Contract;3. Breach of Covenant of Good Faith & Fair Dealing;4. Fraud;5. Declaratory Relief;6. Violation of Business and Professions Code §17000 et seq.The motion now before the Court is Defendant Woodforest National Bank’s Demurrer to the First Amended Complaint (Demurrer). Defendant demurs to each of the six causes of action. Plaintiff opposes the Demurrer, and Defendant files a reply.Factual BackgroundIn 2017 Plaintiff requested and was given a loan (the Loan) by Defendant. (FAC, ¶ 10. Also see Declaration of Thomas Aderhold, Exh. A.) At the time of the initial lending, Defendant did not require any collateral for the loan due to the long-term positive relationship with Plaintiff. (Id., ¶11.) Throughout the ensuing term of the loan, Plaintiff regularly paid the loan to Defendant’s satisfaction. (Id., ¶13.) With the arrival of the pandemic in 2020, Defendant asked Plaintiff to collateralize the loan’s remaining balance. (Id., ¶14.) Plaintiff complied with theDefendant’s request, and additionally made larger than contractually required principal payments to mitigate Defendant’s concerns, with the understanding that in the short term the loan would convert into a long-term amortized loan, inclusive of principal and interest payments. (Id.)Around the same time, Plaintiff alleges Defendant granted multiple forbearances to Plaintiff, and after said forbearances, Plaintiff resumed making large principal payments for short-term loan servicing purposes. (Id., ¶15.) The FAC then alleges that after the summer of 2022, Plaintiff approached Defendant to implement the long-term understanding/servicing of the loan, as Plaintiff was neither willing nor required to continue making larger than expected monthly payments and desired to implement the understanding negotiated with Defendant. (Id., ¶16.)The terms and understanding was negotiated with Defendant’s representative David McDonald, Defendant’s Executive Vice President. Id., ¶17. During this time, Plaintiff and Defendant started reviewing the outstanding balance of the loan. Id., ¶18. Eventually, Plaintiff learned for the first time that Defendant had certain issues in relation to alleged deficiencies relating to the loan. (Id., ¶19.) In January 2023, Defendant took the position that plaintiff was “two payments behind,” which was apparently due to the fact Defendant, contrary to the aforementioned understanding and forbearances, had somehow not applied or extended the second forbearance that Plaintiff had been relying and acting upon. (Id., ¶24.)Plaintiff alleges that Defendant’s retraction of the forbearance triggered a myriad of fees, charges, and penalties. (Id.) The FAC further alleges that in spite of Defendant’s extensive delay in addressing significant and material alleged deficiencies and payment-related matters, Defendanttook the unreasonable position that Plaintiff was now liable not only for past due amounts but also for “attorneys expenses” and various penalties and charges. (Id., ¶25.)In May 2023, Defendant and Plaintiff agreed to amend certain terms of the loan reflecting the following terms: (1) Defendant would receive additional collateral of its choosing and provide certain reassurances and information as further guarantee to Defendant; (2) in return, the loan would be turned into a short-term interest-only loan, and (3) subsequently turn into a small-payment paydown and full-interest, followed by a balloon payment; and an interest rate higher than that applicable to the loan. (Id., ¶29.)As part of the amendment, and as an inducement by Defendant for Plaintiff to purportedly enter into the amendment, Plaintiff was asked and agreed to provide additional unrelated properties to pledge for the benefit of Defendant, for purposes of securing the loan and amendment. (Id., ¶30.) Plaintiff was asked and agreed to provide additional financial and personal information. (Id., ¶31.) In June 2023, during the final phase relating to the amendment, Defendant once again switched gears and informed Plaintiff that it did not intend to honor the amendment and deemed Plaintiff in default, which triggered immediate repayment of the loan in full. (Id., ¶32.) Plaintiff’s last timely payment due under the loan was not accepted by Defendant, who returned it without explanation. (Id., ¶33.)Request for Judicial NoticeConcurrently filed with their Demurrer, Defendant files a request for judicial notice, requesting that the Court judicially notice the Court’s own Tentative Ruling on the previous Demurrer. As the Court’s review of the filings in relation to the instant Demurrer typically necessitate a review of prior related documents, like the tentative ruling, judicial request is unnecessary and therefore denied.Evidentiary ObjectionsPlaintiff files an objection to the exhibits filed in the Declaration of Thomas Aderhold (Aderhold Decl.), arguing that the statement in paragraph three of the Aderhold Decl. is improper, lack foundation, and that the declarant lacks personal knowledge. The objection is overruled as the declarant is the custodian of the records attached.DISCUSSIONMeet and Confer“Before filing a demurrer…the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc. §430.41(a).) “A determination by the court that the meet and confer process was insufficient shall not be grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer.”Defendant submits the Declaration of Christopher O. Rivas (Rivas Decl.) which states that the parties conferred on April 5, 2024, however, the parties were unable to reach an agreement. Nonetheless, the requirements of Code Civ. Proc. §430.41(a) have been satisfied. The Court now turns its attention to the Demurrer.Legal Standard for Demurrer“[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.) A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 [in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents].) For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)Analysis for Demurrera. 1st Cause of Action for Breach of Contract and 2nd Cause of Action for Breach of Implied In Fact ContractTo state a cause of action for breach of contract, Plaintiff must be able to establish “(1) the existence of the contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3) defendant’s breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821.) If a breach of contract claim “is based on alleged breach of a written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the complaint or a copy of the written agreement must be attached and incorporated by reference.” (Harris v. Rudin, Richman & Appel (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 299, 307.) In some circumstances, a plaintiff may also “plead the legal effect of the contract rather than its precise language.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc. v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.)A “contract implied in fact” consists of obligations arising from mutual agreement and intent to promise where agreement and promise have not been expressed in words. (Rose v. County of San Benito (2022) 77 Cal.App.5th 688, 714.)Defendant demurs to both these causes of action on two main grounds: (1) they are barred by the statute of frauds and (2) they are barred by the parole evidence rule. The Court agrees, and additionally notes that (3) the FAC fails to demonstrate the existence of a verbal contract.First, the Court notes that the FAC does not appear to reference any written agreement with regard to this first cause of action. The FAC appears to target the unwritten agreements Plaintiff alleges were made, specifically alleging that Defendant failed to “(i) honor the promised forbearance, (ii) re-negotiate the terms of the Loan, (iii) prepare and/or provide and/or finalize documents as reasonably requested by and expected from PLAINTIFF pursuant to the promises and representations made by the Defendants and/or their agents/representatives to PLAINTIFF…” (FAC, ¶38.)1. Statute of FraudsAs relevant here, Under Civil Code §1624(a), the following contracts are invalid, unless they, or some note or memorandum thereof, are in writing and subscribed by the party to be charged or by the party’s agent: “(1) An agreement that by its terms is not to be performed within a year from the making thereof. . . . (7) A contract, promise, undertaking, or commitment to loan money or to grant or extend credit, in an amount greater than $100,000 . . . made by a person engaged in the business of lending or arranging for the lending of money or extending credit. . . .”The three promises explicitly mentioned under the first cause of action could all presumably be completed within one year, however, the agreements surround the extension of credit well beyond $100,000.00. Plaintiff has not alleged that any promise to honor the forbearance, promise to renegotiate the terms of the Loan, nor any promise to prepare and/or provide and/or finalize documents was made in writing. Without an allegation that these were in writing, the claim is barred by the statute of frauds.2. Parole Evidence RuleThe parol evidence rule provides that “[t]erms set forth in a writing intended by the parties as a final expression of their agreement with respect to such terms as are included therein may not be contradicted by evidence of any prior agreement or of a contemporaneous oral agreement.” (Alling v. Universal Manufacturing Corp. (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 1412, 1435.) As it pertains to the terms of the initial Loan agreement, no other extrinsic evidence may be permitted that contradicts the terms of the Loan, therefore any writing, statement, or other evidence that does not fall withinan exception is barred. This applies to the alleged verbal promises that Plaintiff alleges were made. Plaintiff, upon opposition, does note that fraudulent representations are admissible, and Plaintiff alleges fraud as their fourth cause of action regarding these same verbal promises. However, the FAC encounters one final fatal barrier; it fails to properly allege the existence of a verbal contract.3. FAC Fails to Allege a Proper Verbal ContractAs aforementioned, a plaintiff can plead the legal effect of a contract rather than its precise language, however, the FAC fails to do so. It is unclear within the FAC what consideration was given for the (i) forbearance, (ii) the promise to renegotiate the terms of the Loan, or (iii) the promise to prepare and/or provide and/or finalize documents. The FAC asserts these promises were made, but it is unclear what was offered, accepted, or given as consideration. Without these, the first cause of action fails on the first element, and the second contract cannot stand if there is no contract implied in fact in the first place. The Demurrer is sustained as to the first and second causes of action.b. 3rd Breach of the Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing“A breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing involves something beyond breach of the contractual duty itself and it has been held that bad faith implies unfair dealing rather than mistaken judgment.” (Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1394.) “If the allegations do not go beyond the statement of a mere contract breach and, relying on the same alleged acts, simply seek the same damages or other relief already claimed in a companion contract cause of action, they may be disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim is actually stated … [T]he only justification for asserting a separate cause of action for breach of the implied covenant is to obtain a tort recovery.” (Id. at pp. 1394-1395.) To recover in tort for breach of the implied covenant, the defendant must “have acted unreasonably or without proper cause.” (Id. at p. 1395, citations and italics omitted.)Plaintiff clarifies upon opposition that the third cause of action targets the alleged implied-in-facts agreements that were made verbally. However, as the implied-in-fact agreements fall to demurrer, the third cause of action must fail. Without the properly plead existence of these verbal contracts, no cause of action based on them can stand. The Demurrer to the third cause of action is sustained.c. 4th Cause of Action for Fraud“The elements of fraud are (a) a misrepresentation (false representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) scienter or knowledge of its falsity; (c) intent to induce reliance; (d) justifiable reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) The facts constituting the alleged fraud must be alleged factually and specifically as to every element of fraud, as the policy of “liberal construction” of the pleadings will not ordinarily be invoked. (Lazar v. Superior Court (1996) 12 Cal.4th 631, 645.) To properly allege fraud against a corporation, the plaintiffs must plead the names of the persons allegedly making the false representations, their authority to speak, to whom they spoke, what they said or wrote, and when it was said or written. (Tarmann v. State Farm Mut. Auto. Ins. Co. (1991) 2 Cal.App.4th 153, 157.)The Court stated in its prior ruling that the allegations of fraud in the fourth cause of action were conclusory, that deficiency remains. The FAC alleges that “Defendants intentionally and maliciously made misrepresentations and promises to material matters, and concealed material facts that they had a duty to disclose…” (FAC, ¶ 54.) According to the FAC this was part of a scheme to induce Plaintiff to trust Defendant and provide collateral for an uncollateralized loan. These statements are conclusory. Because Defendant is a corporation, Plaintiff is required to state who said what, when. The FAC fails to do so. It is unclear what misrepresentation was made to Plaintiff and when. It is also unclear as to how this misrepresentation was to induce Plaintiff to rely on these statements and what damage was suffered by Plaintiff collateralizing a loan that was initially uncollateralized. Moreover, the FAC alleges without supporting facts that Defendant never intended to enter into any amendment and intended only to defraud Plaintiff. Without proper supporting facts, this cause of action falls to demurrer. Therefore, the Demurrer is sustained as to the fourth cause of action.d. 5th Cause of Action for Declaratory Relief“To qualify for declaratory relief, a party would have to demonstrate its action presented two essential elements: (1) a proper subject of declaratory relief, and (2) an actual controversy involving justiciable questions relating to the party’s rights or obligations.” (Jolley v. Chase Home Finance, LLC (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 872, 909, quotation marks and brackets omitted.)Defendant argues that the fifth cause of action is derivative of the first two causes of action, and because the first two were not properly plead, the sixth fails as well. The Court agrees. Therefore, the Demurrer is sustained as to the fifth cause of action.e. 6th Cause of Action for Violation of Bus. & Prof. Code §17200 et seq.To set forth a claim for a violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200 (“UCL”), Plaintiff must establish Defendant was engaged in an “unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading advertising” and certain specific acts. (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.) A cause of action for unfair competition “is not an all-purpose substitute for a tort or contract action.” (Cortez v. Purolator Air Filtration Products Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 163, 173.)Defendant argues that this claim fails because plaintiff fails to allege any unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent conduct by the bank. Defendant contends it was not obligated to modify the agreement and any modification must have been in writing and signed by both parties. The Court agrees and sustains the Demurrer to the final cause of action.Legal Standard and Analysis for Leave to AmendLeave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 [court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”]. As there may be reasonable possibility of successful amendment, the Court grants 20 days leave to amend.CONCLUSIONDefendant Woodforest National Bank’s Demurrer is SUSTAINED in its entirety as to Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint. Plaintiff is granted 20 days leave to amend.