 Case Number:  23STCV13422    Hearing Date:   May 29, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31  HEARING DATE:     May 29, 2024                         TRIAL DATE:  September 23, 2024                                                          CASE:                         Jose Centeno Nolasco v. General Motors, LLC CASE NO.:                 23STCV13422  MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Jose Centeno Nolasco RESPONDING PARTY:     Defendant General Motors, LLC  I.         INTRODUCTION This is a Song-Beverly action.  On January 12, 2024, Plaintiff, Jose Centeno Nolasco, filed this motion to compel Defendant, General Motors, LLC, to provide further responses to Plaintiff’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One, Nos. 16-21.  Plaintiff seeks documents concerning a transmission defect in the subject vehicle. On February 1, 2024, the parties entered into a Stipulated Protective Order. The motion came on for hearing on February 13, 2024.  Because the parties had not participated in an Informal Discovery Conference (IDC) prior to the hearing of the motion, the court continued the matter to March 29, 2024 to allow the parties to participate in an IDC.   On March 21, 2024, the parties appeared for the IDC.  Plaintiff agreed to narrow the definition of “Transmission Defects” in the Request for Production.  However, the issues were not resolved.  The court ordered the parties to meet and confer.  Counsel for Plaintiff was directed to file a Notice of Outcome within 5 days of the meet and confer. On April 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Outcome.  Per the Notice, the parties agreed to the following: (1)  Defendant would produce customer complaints pertaining to 2019 Chevrolet Silverados exhibiting the aforementioned transmission defect definition symptoms.(2)  GM will produce warranty claims pertaining to 2019 Chevrolet Silverados exhibiting the aforementioned transmission defect definition symptoms.(3)  GM will produce documents relied upon in generating applicable TSBs identified in the aforementioned defect definition, including emails. The parties agreed that Defendant’s date for document production to be May 15, 2024.             The parties have filed supplemental briefing.  Defendant has not produced documents and indicates it will move for a protective order if the Court is inclined to grant Plaintiff’s motion.              The court now rules as follows. II.        LEGAL STANDARD             Under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, parties may move for a further response to requests for production of documents¿where an answer to the request is evasive or incomplete or where an objection is without merit or too general.¿ The motion “shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(1).)¿¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ Notice of the motion must be given within 45 days of service of the verified response, otherwise, the propounding party waives any right to compel a further response.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (c).)¿ The motion must also be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (b)(2).)¿¿¿¿ ¿¿¿ Finally, California Rules of Court, rule 3.1345 requires that all motions or responses involving further discovery contain a separate statement with the text of each request, the response, and a statement of factual and legal reasons for compelling further responses.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1345(a)(3).)¿¿¿  III.      DISCUSSION             In her motion, Plaintiff states:  “This action alleges that Defendant GENERAL MOTORS LLC (“Defendant” or “GM”) violated California’s Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act (“Song-Beverly Act” or “Lemon Law”) by failing to repair Plaintiff’s 2019 Chevrolet Silverado Vehicle and its various defects—including the TRANSMISSION DEFECT—within a reasonable number of attempts, and by failing to repurchase the vehicle despite its knowledge that Plaintiff’s vehicle suffers from those defects. [¶] Accordingly, Plaintiff propounded Request for Production of Documents, Set One Nos. 16-21 (collectively, the “Requests”), which seek documents relating to GM’s internal investigation and analysis of the Defects plaguing Plaintiff’s vehicle and establishing that Defendant previously knew of such Defects but nevertheless failed to repurchase the vehicle (i.e., Nos. 16-21).” (Mot., p. 1:3-13.) Plaintiff seeks a further response to Request for Production, Nos. 16-21.  The parties have the Court’s Addendum to Case Management Conference Order re: Song-Beverly Discovery (“Addendum”).  The Court addresses each production request with the Addendum in mind. NO. 16: All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored information and electronic mails, concerning or relating to any internal analysis or investigation by YOU or on YOUR behalf regarding TRANSMISSION DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE. [This request shall be interpreted to include, but not be limited to, any such investigation to determine the root cause of such TRANSMISSION DEFECT, any such investigation to design a permanent repair procedure for such TRANSMISSION DEFECT, any such investigation into the failure rates of parts associated with such TRANSMISSION DEFECT, any cost analysis for implementing any proposed repair procedures, any savings analysis not implementing a proposed repair procedures, etc.]. GM’S Response:  GM objects to this Request on the grounds the terms “concerning,” “internal analysis,” “investigation,” and “TRANSMISSION DEFECT” are vague and ambiguous. GM also objects to this Request on the grounds it improperly assumes that there are alleged defects with respect to the SUBJECT VEHICLE, or GM Vehicles, generally. GM also objects to this Request on the grounds it is overbroad and seeks documents that are irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence as it is not limited to the SUBJECT VEHICLE at issue in this action. GM also objects to this Request on the grounds it is burdensome and oppressive, and that compliance would be unreasonably difficult and expensive considering the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation. This is a simple, individual lemon law case with limited issues and this request violates Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997)53 Cal.App.4th 216, 61 Cal.Rptr.2d 567. Specifically, whether Plaintiffs are entitled to relief under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act is entirely unrelated and incommensurate to the scope and breadth of this Request. GM also objects to this Request to the extent it seeks confidential, proprietary and trade secret information. GM further objects to this Request to the extent it seeks information protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or work-product doctrine. No documents will be produced. Ruling: GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.  With respect to electronically stored information, the motion to compel is Granted.  With respect to email communication, the request is overbroad.  Plaintiff does not identify the control source or search terms that might provide responsive documents.  The request with respect to emails is Denied.  NO. 17: All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored information and electronic mails, concerning or relating to any communications YOU have had regarding TRANSMISSION DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE. GM’S RESPONSE:  GM objects to this Request on the grounds the terms “concerning or relating to,” “communications,” and “TRANSMISSION DEFECT” are vague and ambiguous. GM also objects to this Request on the grounds it improperly assumes that there are alleged defects with respect to the SUBJECT VEHICLE, or GM Vehicles, generally. GM also objects to this Request on the grounds it is overbroad and seeks documents that are irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence as it is not limited to the SUBJECT VEHICLE at issue in this action. GM also objects to this Request on the grounds it is burdensome and oppressive, and that compliance would be unreasonably difficult and expensive considering the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation. This is a simple, individual lemon law case with limited issues and this request violates Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 61 Cal.Rptr.2d 567. Specifically, whether Plaintiff is entitled to relief under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act is entirely unrelated and incommensurate to the scope and breadth of this Request. GM also objects to this Request to the extent it seeks confidential, proprietary and trade secret information. GM further objects to this Request to the extent it seeks information protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or work-product doctrine. No documents will be produced. Ruling: GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.  With respect to electronically stored information, the motion to compel is Granted.  With respect to email communication, the request is overbroad.  Plaintiff does not identify the control source or search terms that might provide responsive documents.  The request with respect to emails is Denied.  NO. 18: All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored information and electronic mails, concerning or relating to any decision to issue any notices, letters, campaigns, warranty extensions, technical service bulletins and recalls concerning the TRANSMISSION DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE. GM’s Response: GM objects to this Request on the grounds the terms “concerning or relating to,” “issue,” and “TRANSMISSION DEFECT” are vague and ambiguous. GM also objects to this Request on the grounds it improperly assumes that there are alleged defects with respect to the SUBJECT VEHICLE, or GM Vehicles, generally. GM also objects to this Request on the grounds it is overbroad and seeks documents that are irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence as it is not limited to the SUBJECT VEHICLE at issue in this action. GM also objects to this Request on the grounds it is burdensome and oppressive, and that compliance would be unreasonably difficult and expensive considering the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation. This is a simple, individual lemon law case with limited issues and this request violates Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 61 Cal.Rptr.2d 567. Specifically, whether Plaintiff is entitled to relief under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act is entirely unrelated and incommensurate to the scope and breadth of this Request. GM also objects to this Request to the extent it seeks confidential, proprietary and trade secret information. GM further objects to this Request to the extent it seeks information protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or work-product doctrine. Subject to and without waiving these objections, GM will comply in part and produce the following documents in its possession, custody and control and a list of TSBs and a ISBs for vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE. After it has produced the lists of TSBs and ISBs, GM will – at Plaintiffs’ request – search for and produce, if located, copies of a reasonable number of TSBs and ISBs, if any, that Plaintiffs has identified as relevant to the conditions alleged in Plaintiffs’ complaint.  Ruling:  GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.  With respect to electronically stored information, the motion to compel is Granted.  With respect to email communication, the request is overbroad.  Plaintiff does not identify the control source or search terms that might provide responsive documents.  The request with respect to emails is Denied. NO. 19: All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored information and electronic mails, concerning customer complaints, claims, reported failures, and warranty claims related to TRANSMISSION DEFECT, in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE, including but not limited to any databases in YOUR possession with information from dealers, service departments, parts departments, or warranty departments, and all documents concerning YOUR response to each complaint, claim or reported failure. GM’S Response: GM objects to this Request on the grounds the terms “concerning,” “customer complaints,” “claims,” “reported failures,” “warranty claims” “related to” and “TRANSMISSION DEFECT” are vague and ambiguous. GM also objects to this Request on the grounds it improperly assumes that there are alleged defects with respect to the SUBJECT VEHICLE, or GM Vehicles, generally. GM also objects to this Request on the grounds it is overbroad and seeks documents that are irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence as it is not limited to the SUBJECT VEHICLE at issue in this action. GM also objects to this Request on the grounds it is burdensome and oppressive, and that compliance would be unreasonably difficult and expensive considering the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation. This is a simple, individual lemon law case with limited issues and this request violates Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 61 Cal.Rptr.2d 567. Specifically, whether Plaintiff is entitled to relief under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act is entirely unrelated and incommensurate to the scope and breadth of this Request. GM also objects to this Request to the extent it seeks confidential, proprietary and trade secret information. GM further objects to this Request to the extent it seeks information protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or work-product doctrine. No documents will be produced. Ruling:  GRANTED in part (Addendum 2(h)) and DENIED in part.  With respect to electronically stored information, the motion to compel is Granted.  As to email communication, the request is overbroad.  Plaintiff does not identify the control source or search terms that might provide responsive documents.  The request with respect to emails is Denied.   NO. 20: All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored information and electronic mails, concerning failure rates of vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE as a result of TRANSMISSION DEFECT. GM’S Response:  GM objects to this Request on the grounds the terms “concerning,” “failure rates” and “TRANSMISSION DEFECT” are vague and ambiguous. GM also objects to this Request on the grounds it improperly assumes that there are alleged defects with respect to the SUBJECT VEHICLE, or GM Vehicles, generally. GM also objects to this Request on the grounds it is overbroad and seeks documents that are irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence as it is not limited to the SUBJECT VEHICLE at issue in this action. GM also objects to this Request on the grounds it is burdensome and oppressive, and that compliance would be unreasonably difficult and expensive considering the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation. This is a simple, individual lemon law case with limited issues and this request violates Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 61 Cal.Rptr.2d 567. Specifically, whether Plaintiff is entitled to relief under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act is entirely unrelated and incommensurate to the scope and breadth of this Request. GM also objects to this Request to the extent it seeks confidential, proprietary and trade secret information. GM further objects to this Request to the extent it seeks information protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or work-product doctrine. No documents will be produced.             Ruling: DENIED.  The term “failure rates” is vague and overbroad.  NO. 21: All DOCUMENTS, including but not limited to electronically stored information and electronic mails, concerning or relating to any fixes for TRANSMISSION DEFECT in vehicles of the same year, make, and model as the SUBJECT VEHICLE.           GM’S Response: GM objects to this Request on the grounds the terms “concerning,” “relating to,” “fixes,” and “TRANSMISSION DEFECT” are vague and ambiguous. GM also objects to this Request on the grounds it improperly assumes that there are alleged defects with respect to the SUBJECT VEHICLE, or GM Vehicles, generally. GM also objects to this Request on the grounds it is overbroad and seeks documents that are irrelevant and not reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence as it is not limited to the SUBJECT VEHICLE at issue in this action. GM also objects to this Request on the grounds it is burdensome and oppressive, and that compliance would be unreasonably difficult and expensive considering the needs of the case, the amount in controversy, and the importance of the issues at stake in the litigation. This is a simple, individual lemon law case with limited issues and this request violates Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 61 Cal.Rptr.2d 567. Specifically, whether Plaintiff is entitled to relief under the Song-Beverly Consumer Warranty Act is entirely unrelated and incommensurate to the scope and breadth of this Request. GM also objects to this Request to the extent it seeks confidential, proprietary and trade secret information. GM further objects to this Request to the extent it seeks information protected by the attorney-client privilege and/or work-product doctrine. No documents will be produced. Ruling:  DENIED.  The term “fixes” is vague and overbroad.  IV.       CONCLUSION The motion is granted in part.  Defendant GM is ordered to provide further responses and documents RFP Nos. 16-19, within 45 days of this order.  The motion to compel a further response to RFP 20-21 is Denied. Clerk of the Court to give notice. Dated:   May 29, 2024                                          Kerry Bensinger    Judge of the Superior Court                                                 