 Case Number:  23SMCP00011    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:                       L.M.S. v. W.L.S., et
al.
CASE NUMBER:                 23SMCP00011
MOTION:                              Plaintiff’s Motion to Compel Opposing Counsel
to Engage in Professional Communications  
HEARING DATE:                12/15/2023
 
Background
 
On October 11, 2023, Plaintiff
Michael Sanchez (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative Third Amended Complaint
(“TAC”) against Defendants Wendy Lauren Sanchez and Does 1 to 100, alleging
causes of action for: (1) Breach of Written Contract, and (2) Breach of Oral
and Written Contract. On November 7, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion
to Compel Opposing Counsel to Engage in Professional Communications (the
“Motion”). Plaintiff requests that the Court order opposing Counsel Terry L.
Bird (“Bird”) and Oliver Rocos (“Rocos”) to engage in professional
communications with him, including discussing a global settlement proposal
and/or other relief under Code Civ. Proc. § 473.
 
On December 4, 2023, Defendant
Lauren Sanchez (“Defendant”) filed and served an opposition to the Motion. On
December 4, 2023, Plaintiff filed a declaration in support of the Motion.  On December 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed a supplemental
declaration in support of the Motion. No reply brief was filed. Also, neither
the moving papers nor any of the declarations in support of the Motion were
filed with a proof of service. Although Plaintiff is representing himself in pro
per, the Court reminds Plaintiff to comply with the Code of Civil
Procedure. 
 
Legal Standard
 
“Any attorney or other person
admitted to conduct cases in any court of the United States or any Territory
thereof who so multiplies the proceedings in any case unreasonably and
vexatiously may be required by the court to satisfy personally the excess
costs, expenses, and attorneys’ fees reasonably incurred because of such
conduct.” (28 U.S.C. § 1927.) 
 
“The court may . . . allow a party
to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name of any
party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) “The Court may
likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any
terms as may be just, an amendment to any pleading or proceeding in other
particulars.” (Ibid.) “The court may . . . relieve a party or his or her
legal representative from a judgment, dismissal, order, or other proceeding
taken against him or her through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or
excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b).) 
 
Analysis
 
Plaintiff seeks to compel attorneys
Mr. Bird and Mr. Rocos to present a settlement proposal to Defendant. (Motion
at 4:5-7.) Defendant contends that they are not required to engage in
settlement discussions, or even to respond to Plaintiff’s requests that such
discussions occur.  Defendant is correct.

 
Plaintiff’s reliance on Code of Civil
Procedure section 473 and 28 U.S.C. § 1927 is inapposite. These provisions,
including the federal provision, neither addresses nor references settlement discussions
or settlement offers.
 
The motion is DENIED. 