  Case Number:  20SMCV00819    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  M CASE NAME:           Tom Yang v.
Venice Business Partners, Inc., et al.
CASE NO.:                20SMCV00819
MOTION:                 Defendant
Michael Levine’s Motion to Quash Deposition Subpoenas for Production of
Business Records
HEARING DATE:   12/15/2023
 

Background
 
Plaintiff Tom
Yang (“Plaintiff”) filed suit on June 17, 2021 against Venice Business
Partners, Inc. (“VBP”), Michael Lloyd Levine (“Levine”), VBP Motorsports LLC
dba VBP Motorsports I LLC (“Motorsports I”), and VBP Motorsports II (“Motorsports
II”). 
 
Legal
Standard
 
A court may
quash a subpoena entirely or partially, and issue an order to protect parties,
witnesses or consumers from unreasonable or oppressive demands including
violations of privacy. (CCP §1987.1.) “When a motion to quash is properly
brought, the burden of proof is placed upon the plaintiff to establish the
facts of jurisdiction by a preponderance of the evidence.” (Aquila, Inc. v.
Sup. Ct. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 556, 568.)
 
Analysis
 
On October 4, 2023, Plaintiff issued four separate subpoenas
to two different financial institutions. Two subpoenas were issued to Bank of
America requesting financial documents for both Defendants Levine and VBP. Two
identical subpoenas requested the same from JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. Levine
asserts three arguments in support of quashing these subpoenas. First Levine
argues that the documents invade the privacy rights of Levine, and of third
parties. Second, Levine argues that Plaintiff has inadequately described the
documents requested. Finally, Levine argues that the subpoenas are overbroad
and unduly burdensome. As explained below, the Court disagrees, and the Motion
is denied.      
 
a)   
Privacy Rights
 
“Although the scope of civil discovery is
broad, it is not limitless.” (Calcor Space Facility v. Superior Court,
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 233.) A court must balance the need for
discovery with the right of privacy. Our state Supreme Court created a
three-step test for just such an occasion. “The party asserting a privacy right
must establish a legally protected privacy interest, an objectively reasonable
expectation of privacy in the given circumstances, and a threatened intrusion
that is serious. (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th
531, 552, citing Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7
Cal.4th 1.) “The party seeking information may raise in response whatever
legitimate and important countervailing interests disclosure serves, while the
party seeking protection may identify feasible alternatives that serve the same
interests or protective measures that would diminish the loss of privacy. A
court must then balance these competing considerations.” (Id.)
 
Here, Levine has pointed the Court to his personal finances
and a legally protected privacy interest. (See Fortunato v. Superior Court
(2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 475, 480-481 and the CA Const. Art. 1, § 1.)  Plaintiff, however, has raised a key
countervailing interest that overrides Levin’s privacy rights in the case. 
 
Plaintiff argues that the alter ego allegations as to the
fourth cause of action for fraudulent inducement override Levine’s privacy interests.
Plaintiff allege that Levine, VBP, Motorsports I, and Motorsports II were not
separate entities by simply the same entity. (SAC, ¶ 16.) Thus, discovery of
financial documentation is crucial to determine that the elements of the alter
ego allegations, specifically, whether any commingling of funds took place,
whether any entity uses the same offices and employees, and whether one is
acting as the mere shell for the other. The financial documents requested are reasonably
likely to demonstrate whether these alter ego allegations can be supported. Additionally,
there is no other way Plaintiff would be able to obtain this information
outside of a subpoena. 
 
For these reasons, the ascertainment of the truth of these
allegations outweighs Levine’s privacy interests. Similar to Hecht, Solberg,
Robinson, Goldberg & Bagley LLP v. Superior Court (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th
579, which held that a nonparty law firm, who had a protectible financial
privacy right, was not precluded from handing over documents showing the law
partnership’s financial records when those records revealed essential details
to the case, here, Levine’s records are critical to the alter ego allegations.
 
Levine also attempts to argue that the privacy rights of
third parties will also be invaded, however, not only does Levine fail to
identify which third parties will have their privacy rights invaded, but also
fails to disclose how they would be violated. 
The subpoenas focus on the accounts owned by Levine and VBP, and the
transactions of those account owners.    
 
b)   
Description of Documents Requested
 
Levine’s contends that the deposition subpoena fails to
adequately describe the documents sought. Levine attempts to analogize to Calcor
Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 223,
however, this Court finds that this case is very different from Calcor. In
Calcor, the plaintiff served a motion to compel on a nonparty requesting
broad categories of documents and other materials without identifying specific
documents. Additionally, the plaintiff included almost three pages of
definitions and another three pages of instructions. (Id. at
216). The deficiencies present in Calcor are absent here. Plaintiff’s
definitions and instructions amount to three pages total, and the requests make
up the fourth and final page. More important than the length of the request is
the substance; here Plaintiff describes in detail what is being sought:
 
“Request for Production No. 1: DOCUMENTS reflecting any transfer
of funds or payments, through any and all means, including wire transfers, bank
deposit entries, ledger entries, statements, cash payments, and check payments,
from the VBP account(s) with BANK OF AMERICA, during the period of August 1,
2018 to the date that YOU respond to this demand for production.” 
 
The
terms “wire transfers”, “bank deposits entries”, and “statements” refer to
specific manners in which money is sent and transactions are documented.
Indeed, Bank of America has already responded to Plaintiff’s subpoena without
issue.[1]
Therefore, there is no reason why JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. should not do the
same.  
 
c)    
The subpoenas are not overly broad nor unduly
burdensome
 
Finally, Levine argues that the subpoenas are overbroad and
unduly burdensome. Levine misconstrues the subpoenas to demand that the banks
search through five years of financial records across all branches and
employees. The subpoenas are not requesting documentation regarding every
interaction Levine or VBP has had with an employee or branch. As noted above,
the subpoenas are seeking specific documents that reflect the financial status
of Levine and VBP from shortly before the transaction at issue until now, which
amounts to roughly five years. Many banks have sophisticated record keeping
technology which makes this task much simpler than Levine implies. One bank has
already responded to the subpoenas. Additionally, the causes of action and alter
ego allegations support the production of the requested financial
documentation. 
 
d)   
Sanctions
 
The
moving party here requests sanctions pursuant to CCP § 2023.010 (c). The opposing party
requests the same under CCP § 2023.010(e). At this time to Court declines to
impose sanctions on either party. 
 
conclusion
 
Accordingly, Defendant Michael Levine’s Motion to Quash
Deposition Subpoenas for Production of Business Records and request for
sanctions is DENIED. 


