  Case Number:  20STCV41207    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Gerald Whitt, et al.,


 
 
 
Plaintiffs,


 
Case No.:
 


 
20STCV41207




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Vinco Ventures, Inc., et al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: December 12, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
Demurrer to Second Amended Complaint
and Motion to Strike
Moving Party: Defendant Christopher Smedley
Responding Party: Plaintiffs Gerald Whitt, Alexander
Whitt, Matthew Whitt, Christopher Whitt and Deborah Milam
 
T/R:     DEFENDANT SMEDLEY’S DEMURRER IS
OVERRULED.
 
THE MOTION TO STRIKE IS DENIED.
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 20, 2024, Plaintiffs filed the
operative second amended complaint against Defendants, asserting causes of
action for intentional and negligent misrepresentation, breach of fiduciary
duty, breach of contract, conspiracy, malicious prosecution, and abuse of
process. Plaintiffs were minority shareholders of Cloud B. Plaintiffs allege
the Defendant majority shareholders conspired with the takeover Defendants to
sell Cloud B and loot Cloud B’s assets, making Plaintiffs’ shares worthless. 
 
 
REQUEST FOR
JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Defendant’s request for judicial notice
is GRANTED as to the existence of the documents, but not as to the truth of the
matters asserted in them. 
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
A. Derivative
v. Direct Claims
 
Defendant Smedley demurs to the first, second, fourth, fifth, sixth, and
ninth causes of action for intentional and negligent misrepresentation, civil
conspiracy, and malicious prosecution on the ground that they are improperly
pleaded derivative claims on behalf of Cloud B.
 
Defendant asserts the causes of action should have been derivative
claims because the harm alleged was done to Cloud B, rather than to Plaintiffs
as individual shareholders. Defendant also argues the claims are barred by res
judicata and collateral estoppel because Cloud B released all derivative claims
in its bankruptcy action. 
 
Plaintiffs allege that Defendants as majority shareholders and officers
conspired to make Plaintiffs’ minority shares worthless. This is a recognized
exception to mandatory derivative actions. (See Jones v. H.F. Ahmanson (1969)
1 Cal.3d 93, 106.) The demurrer cannot be sustained on this basis.
 
B. Statute of
Limitations
 
Defendant contends the first, second, fourth, fifth, sixth, and ninth
causes of action for are barred by the statute of limitations and do not relate
back to the original complaint, filed on October 27, 2020, because the claims
have been changed from derivative claims in the original complaint to direct in
this FAC. Defendant does not cite authority stating this specific amendment
prohibits relation back. 
 
Defendant also asserts that being added to the pleadings as a Doe
Defendant does not trigger relation back because Plaintiff knew of Defendant’s
involvement at the start of this action in 2020. This is a question of fact not
suitable for determination on demurrer. 
 
C. Fourth Cause
of Action for Civil Conspiracy
 
“The elements of a civil conspiracy are the formation and operation of
the conspiracy and damage resulting to plaintiff from an act done in
furtherance of the common design.” (Stueve Bros. Farms, LLC v. Berger Kahn
(2013) 222 Cal.App.4th 303, 323.) Plaintiffs allege Defendants engaged in a
conspiracy by, among other things, engaging in covert negotiations to takeover
Cloud B and divulging Cloud B’s proprietary and confidential information to the
takeover Defendants. This is sufficient to allege a civil conspiracy.
 
Defendant Smedley’s demurrer is OVERRULED.
 
D. Motion to
Strike
 
“Any party, within the time allowed to response to a pleading, may serve
and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part" of that
pleading. (CCP § 435(b)(1).) “The Court may, upon a motion made pursuant to
Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper:
(a) Strike out any irrelevant, false or improper matter asserted in any
pleading; (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
Court." (CCP § 436.)
 
Defendant moves to strike allegations that refer to the “Takeover
Defendants” that occurred before Defendant Pearl 33 was formed to the extent
they contain “any direct or implied reference to Moving Defendant;” the prayers
for punitive damages and attorney’s fees, references to alter ego, and any
“derivative” claims. Defendant provides virtually no analysis to support these
requests. This is insufficient to establish that these allegations are improper
and must be stricken.
 
The motion to strike is DENIED.
 
 
 
 
 