  Case Number:  22STCV16831    Hearing Date:   January 30, 2024    Dept:  39 Original Balboa
Caregivers v. Michael Moussa Yedidsion, et al.
Case No.
22STCV16831
Motion for
Protective Order
Order to Show
Cause re: Contempt
Case Management
Conference
            
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiffs
Original Balboa Caregivers, Inc. (“Original Balboa”) and Basil Bailey
(collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against S.S.L. Investments, LLC
(“SSL”), as well as Michael Moussa Yedidsion, Pedram Salimpour, Bob Kashani,
Romyan Nourafchan, Mehdi Vosogh, and 9419 Mason Partners LLC (“Mason”) (collectively,
“Defendants”).  This action stems from
Defendants’ interest in using Original Balboa’s license to operate multiple
different cannabis businesses at that location. 
Plaintiffs allegedly leased industrial space from Mason Partners and
Defendant Nourafchan.  Now, Defendants
move for a protective order and monetary sanctions and move for an order
disqualifying Plaintiff’s counsel based upon inadvertently produced
documents.  The Court ordered that the
parties and counsel shall not examine, use, or disclose the documents and
communications at issue pending the Court’s ruling on Defendants’ motion.  Defendants alleged that there was a violation
of this order, based upon which the Court issued an Order to Show Cause re:
Contempt.  The Court denies Defendants’
motions and discharges its Order to Show Cause re: Contempt.
 
PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
            On
September 19, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel issued a deposition subpoena for the
production of business records to H. Troy Farahmand, Esq.  (Declaration of Michael Forman, ¶ 2.)  The subpoena sought production of documents
relating to the instant dispute, e.g., documents/communications relating to business
operations under Plaintiff’s license, etc. 
(See id., Exh. #1.)  There was a
disagreement over whether Farahmand previously acted as counsel for
Defendants.  (Id., ¶¶ 2-3.)  Farahmand himself took the position that he
did not previously represent SSL and Mason. 
(Id., ¶ 3.)  Counsel for the
parties met-and-conferred and attempted to reach an agreement concerning the
scope of the attorney-client privilege. 
(Id., ¶ 4.)  
 
            On October
20, 2023, Farahmand sent an email stating that he planned to produce documents
response to the subpoena on November 9, 2023. 
(Id., ¶ 5.)  Farahmand indicated
that he would not abide by SSL and Mason’s objections because they had not
provided evidence showing that he acted as their attorney.  (Ibid.) 
In response, Plaintiff’s counsel sent Farahmand copies of seven emails
purportedly demonstrating that Farahmand acted as counsel for SSL and Mason “by
drafting and negotiating several legal documents.”  (Id., ¶ 6.) 
The email contained attachments labeled Exhibit A through Exhibit
G.  (Ibid.)  Defendant’s counsel copied Defendant’s
counsel, though the parties dispute whether this was intentional or
inadvertent.  (See Declaration of Michael
Foreman, ¶ 7; Declaration of William Tran, ¶ 3.)  Defendant’s counsel asked Plaintiff’s counsel
to destroy the attorney-client communications. 
(See Declaration of Michael Foreman, ¶ 10.)  Plaintiff’s counsel refused to do so stating:
“I don’t see any privileged materials requiring us to destroy it.”  (Ibid.) 

 
            On November
8, 2023, Defendants’ counsel filed an ex parte application to advance the
hearing date on a motion for a protective order, citing exigency.  The Court granted the ex parte application,
advanced the hearing to December 1, 2023, and ordered that “all parties and
counsel in this case shall not examine, use, or disclose the documents and
communications at issue until the Court rules on the pending motion.”  Defendants allege that Farahmand violated
this order by attaching certain of the emails at issue to his declaration in
support of Plaintiff’s opposition to the motion.  As a result, the Court issued an Order to
Show Cause re: Contempt.  
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
An attorney’s inadvertent
disclosure of attorney-client privileged communications in discovery is not a
waiver of the privilege.  (State Comp.
Ins. Fund v. WPS, Inc. (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th 644, 652-654.)  If an attorney receives material that appears
to be subject to the attorney-client privilege and that the holder of the
privilege did not intentionally produce, the attorney must: (1) refrain from
examining the materials beyond the extent necessary to determine if the
materials are subject to the attorney-client privilege; (2) immediately notify
the sender that the attorney received material that is apparently subject to
the attorney-client privilege; and (3) resolve the situation by stipulation or
via a protective order from the Court.  (Rico
v. Mitsubishi Motors Corp. (2007) 42 Cal.4th 807, 817-818.)  An attorney who fails to comply with these
requirements is subject to disqualification and discipline.  (Id. at 819, Cal. Rules of
Professional Conduct, rule 4.4.)
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            Defendants
move for a protective order requiring Plaintiff’s counsel to return/destroy the
documents at issue and refrain from using them in this litigation.  Defendants also move for an order
disqualifying Plaintiff’s counsel from representing Plaintiff in this
litigation.  Defendants argue: “The
documents at issue are attorney-client communications because they reveal legal
opinions and/or legal work performed by Mr. Farahmand on behalf of
Defendants.”  (Defendants’ Memorandum of
Points & Authorities, p. 2:8-9.)  However,
Defendants have not satisfied their burden of establishing that the documents
were, in fact, privileged.  
 
            As an
initial matter, Farahmand maintains that he did not act as counsel for SSL and
Mason.  (See Declaration of Michael
Foreman, ¶ 3.)  In March 2017, Farahmand
became a member of SSL and currently serves as one of its managers.  (Declaration of Hootan Troy Farahmand, ¶
7.)  In November 2017, an entity
controlled by Farahmand became a minority member of Defendant.  (Id., ¶ 9.) 
Farahmand states: “I never agreed to provide nor did I provide any legal
services to SSL, or Mason or to any of their members, at any time.”  (Id., ¶ 10.) 
Farahmand states: “I have never entered into any legal services
agreement with [Defendants] (written or oral), nor have I ever held myself out
as counsel for SSL or Mason to anyone.” 
(Id., ¶ 11.)  The mere fact that
Farahmand is an attorney does not make his communications with fellow members
privileged. (See United States v. Martin, 278 F.3d 988, 999 (9th Cir.
2002).)  “It is settled that the
attorney-client privilege is inapplicable where the attorney merely acts as a
negotiator for the client, gives business advice or otherwise acts as a
business agent.”  (Chicago Title Ins. Co.
v. Superior Court (1985) 174 Cal.App.3d 1142, 1151.)
            
Defendants rely on identical declarations
from Yedidsion, Salimpour, and Kashani stating that “Farahmand agreed to
provide legal services to SSL and Mason beginning in 2017” and that “Mr.
Farahmand was SSL and Mason’s attorney.” 
These declarations do not resolve the issue because there is a murky
line when an LLC member is an attorney.  Defendants
provide no documentation in support of these assertions, e.g., a retainer
agreement with Mr. Farahmand or some documentation in support of their
assertion that Farahmand’s role as an LLC member was incumbent upon him serving
as an attorney.  Moreover, the
declarations (which are boilerplate in nature and presumably drafted by
counsel) do not provide sufficient information. 
For example, there is a fine line between an LLC member providing
“advice” in his capacity as a member and “legal advice” in his capacity as an
attorney.  The declarations do not
provide sufficient detail to confirm that Farahmand’s advice was, in fact,
legal advice, especially considering that the declarants themselves are not
attorneys.  Similarly, the declarants
state that Farahmand “negotiated and drafted/edited settlement agreements,” but
negotiating and editing settlement agreements are tasks often performed by
clients.  Tellingly, the declarations
phrase the issue as Farahmand having “drafted/edited” settlement agreements
rather than “drafted and later edited” the settlement agreements.  Finally, the Court notes that Defendants have
a motive to cast Farahmand in the role of an attorney, viz., they can shield
all of the members’ communications from Plaintiff’s counsel, including those
sought by the subpoena.
 
Defendants’ counsel relies on his
email to Farahmand, dated November 2, 2023, at 11:06 a.m.  (See Declaration of Michael Foreman, Exh.
#3.)  This email references attachments
which Defendant’s counsel describes as Farahmand having performed certain
tasks, e.g., having drafted a non-disclosure agreement for SSL, a promissory
note on behalf of SSL, etc.  (Ibid.)  This email does not benefit Defendants’ motion.  Inexplicably, Defendants’ counsel declined to
file the emails at issue in camera and under seal for the Court’s review.  (See Declaration of Michael Foreman, ¶
3.)  Essentially, Defendants’ counsel
asks the Court to “take his word for it” that the attached emails evidence an
attorney-client relationship (assuming they are accurately described in the
cover email).  The Court is concerned
because there is contradictory evidence in the record.  Farahmand states that he “did not draft any
NDA” and merely “shared a template that [he] ha[s] used for other business
matters.”  (Declaration of Hootan Troy
Farahmand, ¶ 18.)  Farahmand states that
he hired an attorney to draft the promissory note at issue.  (See id., ¶ 19.)  In the absence of the underlying exhibits to
Defendants’ counsel’s email, the Court cannot resolve this contradiction.    
 
Perhaps most important, some of the
communications at issue do not appear to be privileged.  Defendants’ counsel acknowledges that some of
allegedly privileged documents were attached to Farahmand’s declaration as
Exhibit B and Exhibit C.  These
communications reflect those amongst LLC members—not clients and their
attorney—and actually reference outside counsel performing services.  None of these communications contradict
Farahmand’s assertion that he was not acting as an attorney while he served as
a member of SSL and a manager of a member of Mason.  
 
In sum, Defendants’ counsel provides
a selective record to the Court, asking this Court to impose a drastic remedy disqualification,
monetary sanctions, and potential discipline by the State Bar based upon unseen
exhibits purportedly establishing that Mr. Farahmand acted as an
attorney—notwithstanding his challenge to Defendants’ counsel’s summary of
their contents—and insufficient declarations from his clients who have a motive
to cast Farahmand in the role of an attorney. 
At the end of the day, it is Defendants’ counsel’s burden to establish
that the documents at issue were privileged; he has failed to do so.  To the extent there was a violation of the
Court’s order of November 9, 2023, the Court accepts Plaintiff’s counsel’s
explanation.  In the alternative, the
Court finds that any violation was harmless since the documents attached to
Farahmand’s declaration do not appear to be privileged.  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
            Based upon
the foregoing, the Court orders as follows:
 
            1.         The Court denies Defendants’ motion for
a protective order and for an order disqualifying Plaintiff’s counsel. 
 
            2.         The Court discharges the Order to Show
Cause re: Sanctions.
 
            3.         The Court advances and continues the hearing
on Defendants’ motion for summary adjudication from March 7, 2024, to June 14,
2024, at 8:30 a.m
 
            4.         The Court continues the trial setting
conference to June 14, 2024, at 8:30 a.m. 
 
            5.         The Court advances and/or continues the
hearings on all pending discovery motions to March 26, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  
 
            6.         Defendants’ counsel shall provide
notice and file proof of such with the Court. 

 