  Case Number:  20STCV28899    Hearing Date:   November 9, 2023    Dept:  39 Shahrouz
Jahanshahi v. Corey Evan Parker
Case
No. 20STCV28899
Order
Dismissing Claims Against Trisha Parker with Prejudice
 
The Court posts
this tentative order on Tuesday, November 7, 2023, in advance of the hearing on
Thursday, November 9, 2023, at 8:30 a.m. 
The Court provides notice: If Plaintiff does not appear, either remotely
or in-person, absent good cause, he shall waive the right to be heard on this order
and shall submit to the Court’s decision to dismiss the claims against Trisha
Parker with prejudice. 
 
Plaintiff
Shahrouz Jahanshahi (“Plaintiff”), a self-represented litigant, filed this legal
malpractice action against his former attorney, Corey Evan Parker, and a series
of Doe defendants.  Following a demurrer,
the following causes of action remained at issue: (1) Legal malpractice, (2)
Breach of fiduciary duty, and (3) Breach of contract (specifically, the
retainer agreement).  (See Court’s Minute
Order, dated August 25, 2021.)  The Court
granted Defendant Corey Evan Parker’s motion for summary judgment.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated June 15,
2023.)  The Court granted Defendant David
Thomas Sulzbacher’s motion to strike and dismissed him with prejudice.  (See Court’s Minute Order, dated October 17,
2023.)  
 
Shortly before
the hearing on Defendant Corey Evan Parker’s motion for summary judgment, on
May 8, 2023, Plaintiff named Mr. Parker’s wife, Trisha Parker, in place of a
Doe defendant.  Defendants moved to have
Plaintiff declared a vexatious litigant under Code of Civil Procedure sections
391(b)(1) and 391(b)(3), and asked the Court to require him to post an
undertaking of $10,685 before proceeding with this case against Defendant Trisha
Parker.  Notwithstanding the Court’s
ruling on the motion for summary judgment, Plaintiff maintained these same
causes of action against Mr. Parker’s wife, who worked as his case manager. 
 
Following a
hearing on Defendants’ motion, the Court granted the motion and declared
Plaintiff to be a vexatious litigant. 
(See Court’s Minute Order, dated October 17, 2023.)  The Court ordered Plaintiff to post an
undertaking in the amount of $10,685, and to file proof of such on or before
November 3, 2023.  (Id., p. 9.)  The Court issued an Order to Show Cause why the
claims against Trisha Parker should not be dismissed with prejudice based upon
any failure to post an undertaking. 
(Ibid.)  The Court provided the
following notice: “If Plaintiff fails to post the required undertaking, absent
good cause, the Court intends to dismiss the claims against Trisha Parker with
prejudice.”  (Ibid.)  
 
Plaintiff did
not post an undertaking as ordered by the Court.  Plaintiff did not file a written response to
the Court’s Order to Show Cause why the claims against Trisha Parker should not
be dismissed.  Plaintiff articulates no
good cause for his failure to post an undertaking.  As discussed, Plaintiff articulated no viable
basis to proceed against Trisha Parker on the claims in the operative
complaint.  (See id., pp. 5-8.)  Accordingly, the Court orders as follows: 
 
1.         The Court dismisses the claims against
Defendant Trisha Parker with prejudice.
 
2.         Because there are no remaining
defendants, the Court sets no future dates. 
Defendants may lodge a proposed judgment if necessary.  
 
3.         Counsel for Defendant Trisha Parker
shall provide notice and file proof of such with the Court.
 