  Case Number:  22STCV11937    Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior  Court of California County  of Los Angeles Department 50      JAYESH KUMAR,                         Plaintiff,              vs. THE CITY LOS ANGELES, et al.,                         Defendants.   Case No.:   22STCV11937    [c/w 22STCV19257]     Hearing Date:   December 4, 2023     Hearing Time:    2:00 p.m.     TENTATIVE RULING    RE:   DEFENDANT CITY    OF LOS ANGELES’ JOINT DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFFS HALLER, LLC AND SHAUN TAN’S    FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT AND PLAINTIFF JAYESH KUMAR’S THIRD AMENDED COMPLAINT;       DEFENDANTS’    JOINT MOTION TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFFS’ HALLER LLC AND SHAUN TAN’S    FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT     AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS                    Background  On April 7, 2022, Plaintiff Jayesh Kumar (“Kumar”) filed  the instant action against a number of defendants, including the City of Los  Angeles (the “City”) (herein, the “Kumar Action”).  On June 8, 2023, Kumar filed the  operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”) in the Kumar Action against the City,  Haller, LLC (“Haller”) and a number of other defendants. The TAC alleges causes of action for (1)  breach of lease, (2) nuisance, (3) trespass, and (4) dangerous condition of  public property.                On  June 13, 2022, Haller and Shaun Tan (“Tan”) filed an action against a number of  defendants in the matter Haller, LLC, et al. v. The City of Los Angeles, et  al., Case No. 22STCV19257 (the “Haller Action”). On June 8, 2023, Haller  and Tan filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) in the Haller  Action against the City, Hollywood Arts Collective LP, Hollywood  Arts Collective LLC, Thomas Safran and Associates Development, Inc., Thomas  Safran and Associates, Inc., Morley Construction Company, and Benchmark  Contractors Inc. The FAC alleges causes of action for (1) inverse condemnation,  (2) nuisance, (3) dangerous condition of public property, (4) trespass, and (5)  negligence.  On August 2, 2023, the Court issued an Order in the Kumar  Action indicating that “IT IS HEREBY ORDERED that Case Nos. 22STCV11937 (Kumar  Action) and 22STCV19257 (Haller Action) be consolidated for all pretrial,  discovery, and motion purposes only. Case No. 22STCV11937 (Kumar Action) will  be the Lead Case. The operative pleadings filed in the Kumar Action and the  Haller Action will remain separate. Defendants may file one (1) Joint Demurrer  and/or Motion to Strike as to the Third Amended Complaint in the Kumar Action  and the First Amended Complaint in the Haller Action to be noticed pursuant to California Code of Civil Procedure § 1005 for and  heard by the Court on September 26, 2023. If the issue of Haller being both a  plaintiff [and] a defendant is resolved, the parties may submit a further  stipulation to consolidate the cases for trial…”[1]              The City now demurs to the second,  third, and fourth causes of action of the TAC in the Kumar Action. Kumar  opposes.  The City also demurs to each of the causes of action  of the FAC in the Haller Action. Haller and Tan oppose.              In addition, the City, Morley  Construction Company, Hollywood Arts Collective LP, Hollywood Arts Collective  LLC, Thomas Safran & Associates, Inc., Thomas Safran and Associates  Development, Inc., and Benchmark Contractor’s Inc. (collectively, the “Moving  Parties”) move to strike portions of the FAC in the Haller Action. Haller and  Tan oppose.  Demurrer A.     Legal Standard  A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that  appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the  pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank  v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,  318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts  sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might  eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For  the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer  admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A  demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or  law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)  B.      The  City’s Demurrer to the TAC in the Kumar Action  The City  demurs to the second, third, and fourth causes of action alleged in the TAC in  the Kumar Action.  1.       Allegations  of the TAC in the Kumar Action  In the TAC in the Kumar Action, Kumar alleges that at  all relevant times he is and was a tenant operating a hotel at 1624 Schrader  Blvd., Los Angeles, California 90028 known as the Cielo Hotel (the “Cielo  Property”). (TAC, ¶ 11.) Kumar leased the Cielo Property from Haller on or  about June 29, 2020 for five years, at a base rent of $32,500 per month and a  deposit of $97,500. (TAC, ¶ 12.)  Beginning in or around late 2020 and/or early 2021,  defendants (other than Haller) began excavating the ground adjacent to/north of  the Cielo Property for the purpose of building a structure at 1630 Schrader  Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA 90028, known as the Hollywood Arts Collective (the  “HAC Property”). (TAC, ¶ 14.) The City owns the real property upon which the  HAC Property is being built. (TAC, ¶ 15.) Several defendants have entered into  and/or are subject to a Development Agreement with the City for the development  of and construction at the HAC Property. (TAC, ¶ 16.)  On or about April 2, 2021, or soon thereafter,  extensive damage began appearing at the Cielo Property, including but not  limited to cracks in the walls and misalignment of doors that formerly were  aligned. (TAC, ¶ 21.) Kumar hired experts to examine the Cielo Property and was  informed that the construction activity of defendants at the HAC Property had  caused the foundation of the Cielo Property to become compromised and had  caused the wall cracking and structure shift that Kumar had noticed. (TAC, ¶ 22.)  Due to the damage, Kumar has been unable to operate a hotel at the Cielo  Property, losing business revenue on an ongoing basis. (TAC, ¶ 23.)  2.       Second Cause of Action for  Nuisance and Third Cause of Action for Trespass In the demurrer, the City asserts that “[b]ecause the TAC fails to allege  sufficient facts to support the statutory basis for liability against the City  for trespass and nuisance these claims are barred by the Tort Claims Act...” (Demurrer at p. 16:4-5.)  The City  notes that pursuant to  Government Code section 815, subdivision (a),  “[e]xcept as otherwise provided by statute…[a] public entity is not liable for  an injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the public  entity or a public employee or any other person.” “In other  words, direct tort liability of public entities must be based on a specific  statute declaring them to be liable, or at least creating some specific duty of  care…Otherwise, the general rule of immunity for public entities would be  largely eroded by the routine application of general tort principles.” (Eastburn  v. Regional Fire Protection Authority (2003) 31 Cal.4th 1175, 1183.)   In the second cause of action for nuisance and the  third cause of action for trespass, Kumar alleges, inter alia, that “under  Government Code sections 815.2 and 815.4…the City  may be found liable for the tortious acts of the Developer Defendants.” (TAC,  ¶¶ 34, 46.) The City asserts that here, “Kumar’s  reliance on Government Code Sections 815.2 and 815.4  to allege trespass and nuisance against the City is misplaced because there are  no factual allegations in the TAC that any of the Developer Defendants are  employees or independent contractors of the City that would give rise to  liability against a public entity.” (Demurrer at p. 14:11-14.)  As noted by the City, Government  Code section 815.2, subdivision (a) provides that “[a] public entity is liable for  injury proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public  entity within the scope of his employment if the act or omission would, apart  from this section, have given rise to a cause of action against that employee  or his personal representative.” In addition, Government  Code section 815.4 provides that “[a] public entity  is liable for injury proximately caused by a tortious act or omission of an  independent contractor of the public entity to the same extent that the public  entity would be subject to such liability if it were a private person. Nothing  in this section subjects a public entity to liability for the act or omission  of an independent contractor if the public entity would not have been liable  for the injury had the act or omission been that of an employee of the public  entity.”  In the  opposition, Kumar asserts that he “alleges several allegations earlier in the  TAC under the Second Restatement of Torts regarding the independent contractor  relationship between the Developer Defendants and the City, sufficient to allow  Plaintiff to sue under Government Code sections 815.2  and 815.4.” (Opp’n at p. 8:22-25, citing TAC, ¶ 19, emphasis omitted.) But  as noted by the City, Kumar does not appear to specifically allege that any of  the defendants are independent contractor(s) of the City. Rather, Kumar alleges  that “several Defendants herein have entered into and/or are subject to a  Development Agreement with the City for the development of and construction at  the HAC Property…” (TAC, ¶ 16.) This allegation does not specify whether any such  defendants are independent contractor(s) of the City.  Based on  the foregoing, the Court sustains the City’s demurrer  to the second and third causes of action of Kumar’s TAC, with leave to amend.  3.      Fourth Cause of Action for Dangerous  Condition of Public Property  The City also asserts that Kumar’s fourth cause of  action for dangerous condition of public property fails to allege facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action.  The City cites to Government Code  section 835,  which provides as follows:  “Except  as provided by statute, a public entity is liable for injury caused by a  dangerous condition of its property if the plaintiff establishes that the  property was in a dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that the  injury was proximately caused by the dangerous condition, that the dangerous  condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was  incurred, and that either: (a) A negligent or wrongful act or omission  of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment created  the dangerous condition; or   (b) The public entity had actual or  constructive notice of the dangerous condition under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken  measures to protect against the dangerous condition.” The City notes that “[t]he limited and statutory nature of governmental liability  mandates that claims against public entities be specifically pleaded.  Accordingly, a claim alleging a dangerous condition may not rely on generalized  allegations but must specify in what manner the condition constituted a  dangerous condition.” (Brenner v. City  of El Cajon (2003) 113 Cal.App.4th  434, 439 [internal citations omitted].)  In the demurrer, the City asserts that “Kumar’s generalized claim for  dangerous condition of public property lacks specificity of any alleged  dangerous condition…or how any condition was dangerous.” (Demurrer at p.  17:6-7.) But as noted by Kumar, he alleges that “[a]s described in detail  above, the design, construction, installation, operation, repair, inspection,  servicing, supervision, management, and maintenance of the HAC constituted, and  continues to constitute, a dangerous condition of public property.” (TAC, ¶  54.) Kumar notes that he further alleges that “[b]eginning in or around late  2020 and/or early 2021, Defendants (other than HALLER) began excavating the  ground adjacent to/north of the Cielo Property for the purpose of building a  structure at 1630 Schrader Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA 90028, known as the  Hollywood Arts Collective (‘HAC’ or ‘HAC Property’).” (TAC, ¶ 14.) Kumar notes  that he alleges that “on or about April 2, 2021, or soon thereafter, extensive  damage began appearing at the Cielo Property, including but not limited to  cracks in the walls and misalignment of doors that formerly were aligned,” and  that “Plaintiff hired experts to examine the Cielo Property and thereupon was  informed and believes and thereon alleges that the construction activity of  Defendants, and each of them, at the HAC Property had caused the foundation of  the CIELO Property to become compromised and had caused the wall cracking and  structure shift that Plaintiff had noticed. Plaintiff’s experts also determined  that the Cielo Property constitutes a hazard and that it is unsafe to continue  to conduct a hotel operation or any business at all therein.” (TAC, ¶¶ 21-22.)  In the demurrer, the City also argues that “Kumar  also fails to allege how or what actual or constructive knowledge of any  specific dangerous condition the City knew or should have known.” (Demurrer at  p. 17:7-9.) Kumar counters that “[i]n order to recover under Government Code section 835, it is not necessary for  plaintiff to prove a negligent act and notice; either negligence or notice will suffice.” (Curtis v. State of  California ex rel. Dept. of Transportation (1982) 128 Cal.App.3d 668, 693 [emphasis  in original].)   The City also asserts that “the TAC lumps the City of  LA with nine…other ‘Defendants’ but do [sic] not specify what acts and/or  omissions by the City or what the City knew or should have known about the  public property to give rise to this cause of action.” (Demurrer at p. 18:1-3.)  Kumar does not appear to dispute this point in the opposition. As set forth  above, Kumar notes that the TAC alleges that “[b]eginning in or around late  2020 and/or early 2021, Defendants (other than HALLER) began excavating  the ground adjacent to/north of the Cielo Property for the purpose of building  a structure at 1630 Schrader Boulevard, Los Angeles, CA 90028, known as the  Hollywood Arts Collective…” (TAC, ¶ 14, emphasis added.)  Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains the City’s demurrer  to the fourth cause of action of Kumar’s TAC, with leave to amend.   C.     The City’s Demurrer to the FAC in the Haller Action  The City also demurs to each of the causes of action  alleged in the FAC in the Haller Action. 1.       Allegations of the FAC in the Haller Action   In the FAC in the Haller Action, Haller and Tan  allege that the Haller Action stems from damage to their two-story hotel  building located at 1624 Schrader Blvd., Los Angeles, California 90028 (“the  Building”). (FAC, ¶ 1.) Haller and Tan allege that at all relevant times, they  were and are the owners of real, business, and personal property at 1624  Schrader Blvd., Los Angeles, California 90028. (FAC, ¶ 14.)  Haller and Tan allege that damage to the Building was  caused by the negligent construction, development, inspection, and supervision  of the Hollywood Arts Collective (“HAC”), which is located directly north of  the Building at 1630 Schrader Blvd. in Los Angeles, California 90028. (FAC, ¶  1.) The HAC is an income and rent restricted affordable housing complex set to  open in Summer 2023. (FAC, ¶ 2.) The HAC is allegedly “owned, designed,  constructed, installed, operated, repaired, inspected, serviced, supervised,  managed and maintained” by various companies, including but not limited to the  City. (FAC, ¶ 2.)  The construction of the HAC began in February 2021  and shortly thereafter, Haller and Tan discovered damage to the Building only  feet away from where Defendants were performing subterranean construction.  (FAC, ¶ 2.) Haller and Tan allege that “[a]s a result of Defendants’ negligent  and improper design, construction, installation, operation, repair, inspection,  servicing, supervision, management and maintenance of the HAC and the  surrounding area, Plaintiffs suffered damages including but not limited to physical  damaged to the Property, reduced value of the Property, reduced safety and  marketability of the Property, out of pocket costs to mitigate the damage and  repair the Property, costs of disposal, repair and/or replacement of damaged  Property, loss of rent, costs for attorneys’ fees and such further costs and  expenses according to proof.” (FAC, ¶ 17.)  2.       First Cause of  Action for Inverse Condemnation  “Article I, section 19…of the  California Constitution requires that just compensation be paid when  private property is taken or damaged for public use. Therefore, a public entity  may be liable in an inverse condemnation action for any physical injury to real  property proximately caused by a public improvement as deliberately designed  and constructed, whether or not that injury was foreseeable, and in the absence  of fault by the public entity.” (Souza v. Silver Dev. Co. (1985)  164 Cal.App.3d 165, 170.)  “To state a cause of action for inverse condemnation, the plaintiff must allege  the defendant substantially participated in the planning, approval,  construction, or operation of a public project or improvement which  proximately caused injury to plaintiff’s property.” (Pacific  Shores Property Owners Assn. v. Department of Fish & Wildlife (2016) 244  Cal.App.4th 12, 43.) “The necessary  finding is that the wrongful act be part of the  deliberate design, construction, or maintenance of the public  improvement.” (Arreola v. County of Monterey (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 722, 742.)   The City asserts that the first cause of action for  inverse condemnation fails because Haller and Tan fail to allege how the City  substantially participated in the planning, approval, construction, or  operation of a public project or improvement that caused injury to Haller and  Tan’s property. But as noted by Haller and Tan, the first cause of action for  inverse condemnation alleges that “as the owner of 1630 Schrader and the HAC,  the City was directly and substantially involved, along with the other Defendants,  and approved and participated in each and every step of the planning, design,  construction, installation, operation, repair, inspection, servicing,  supervision, management and maintenance of the HAC. The City and the Defendants  were aware that their actions and inactions, including the plan, design,  construction, and installation of the HAC would or could cause damage to  Plaintiffs’ Building and proceeded with its HAC project for the benefit of the  public.” (FAC, ¶ 21.) The City also asserts that Haller and Tan “allege  that all Defendants collectively damaged Plaintiffs without differentiating  each parties’ individual, specific role in the construction and development of  the HAC,” (Demurrer at p. 5:16-18), but Haller and Tan allege that “the City  was the entity that was solely in charge of the inspection and approval of the  plan, design, construction, and installation of the HAC.” (FAC, ¶ 23.)  In addition, the City argues that the FAC contains no  allegations that the HAC is a “public project or improvement” as required to  establish inverse condemnation. But as noted by Haller and Tan, they allege  that “the City ignored those potential dangers to Plaintiffs’ Building and  proceeded with its HAC project for the benefit of the public.” (FAC, ¶  23, emphasis added.) Based on the foregoing, the Court  overrules the City’s demurrer to the first cause of action of Haller and Tan’s  FAC.  3.       Third Cause of  Action for Dangerous Condition of Public Property  The City asserts that Haller and Tan’s third cause of  action for dangerous condition of public property fails to allege facts  sufficient to constitute a cause of action. As set forth above, Government Code section 835 provides as follows:  “Except  as provided by statute, a public entity is liable for injury caused by a  dangerous condition of its property if the plaintiff establishes that the  property was in a dangerous condition at the time of the injury, that the  injury was proximately caused by the dangerous condition, that the dangerous  condition created a reasonably foreseeable risk of the kind of injury which was  incurred, and that either: (a) A negligent or wrongful act or  omission of an employee of the public entity within the scope of his employment  created the dangerous condition; or   (b) The public entity had actual or  constructive notice of the dangerous condition under Section 835.2 a sufficient time prior to the injury to have taken  measures to protect against the dangerous condition.”              In the demurrer, the  City asserts that Haller and Tan’s “claim for dangerous condition of public property contains  generalized claims of an alleged dangerous condition without any specificity as  to what manner or how the condition constitutes a dangerous condition at the  time of injury.” (Demurrer at p. 7:1-3.) But as  acknowledged by the City, Haller and Tan allege that “[a]t all relevant  times, Defendants’ design, construction, installation, operation, repair,  inspection, servicing, supervision, management and maintenance of the HAC  constituted, and continues to constitute, a dangerous condition of public  property. More specifically, Defendants began digging substantially below the  natural grade of 1630 Schrader. Plaintiffs are informed and believe, and based  on that information and belief, that the substantial subterranean digging  caused the surrounding areas to become unstable and shift and slide towards the  substantially dug part of Defendants’ property creating a dangerous condition  on the area surrounding the dig. Moreover, Defendants’ dig area was so close to  the neighboring properties and was so deep that the dangerous condition  extended well on to and under the neighboring properties, including Plaintiffs’  Property. That dangerous condition caused Plaintiffs’ Building to shift down  and along with the land, towards to the dig area causing severe damage to  Plaintiffs’ Building and rendered it unhabitable and likely a complete loss.”  (FAC, ¶ 36.)              The City also asserts in  the demurrer that Haller and Tan “lump the City with the acts of all ‘Defendants’ without any  specific facts related to the City’s conduct or as to…each parties’ respective  conduct that is actionable.” (Demurrer at p. 7:3-5.) Haller and Tan do not  appear to respond to or dispute this point in the opposition. As noted by the  City, “[t]he limited  and statutory nature of governmental liability mandates that claims against  public entities be specifically pleaded. Accordingly, a claim alleging a  dangerous condition may not rely on generalized allegations but must specify in  what manner the condition constituted a dangerous condition.” (Brenner v. City  of El Cajon, supra, 113  Cal.App.4th at p. 439 [internal citations omitted].)               Based  on the foregoing, the Court sustains the City’s demurrer to the third cause of  action of Haller and Tan’s FAC, with leave to amend.     4.      Second Cause of Action for Nuisance, Fourth Cause of  Action for Trespass, and Fifth Cause of Action for Negligence  The City asserts that “the FAC fails to allege  sufficient facts to support the statutory basis for liability against the City  for trespass, nuisance, or negligence…” (Demurrer at p. 10:3-4.)  As set forth above, the City notes that pursuant to Government Code section 815, subdivision (a),  “[e]xcept as otherwise provided by statute…[a] public entity is not liable for  an injury, whether such injury arises out of an act or omission of the public  entity or a public employee or any other person.” “In other  words, direct tort liability of public entities must be based on a specific  statute declaring them to be liable, or at least creating some specific duty of  care…Otherwise, the general rule of immunity for public entities would be  largely eroded by the routine application of general tort principles.” (Eastburn  v. Regional Fire Protection Authority, supra, 31 Cal.4th at  p. 1183.)   In the second cause of action for nuisance, Haller  and Tan allege, inter alia, that “[t]he City is liable for the actions  of its employees and its contractors pursuant to Gov. C. §§815.2,  815.4.” (FAC, ¶ 30.) In the fourth cause of action for trespass and the  fifth cause of action for negligence, Haller and Tan similarly allege that “[t]he  City is liable for the actions of its employees and its contractors pursuant to  Gov. C. §§815.2, 815.4.” (FAC, ¶¶ 46, 51.)  The City asserts that “Plaintiffs fail to allege  sufficient facts under Government Codes [sections] 815.2  and 815.4 to maintain a trespass, nuisance, or negligence cause of action  against the City, a public entity.” (Demurrer at p. 8:7-9.)  As set forth above, Government  Code section 815.2, subdivision (a) provides that “[a] public entity is liable for  injury proximately caused by an act or omission of an employee of the public  entity within the scope of his employment if the act or omission would, apart  from this section, have given rise to a cause of action against that employee  or his personal representative.” The City argues that here, “Government Code Section 815.2 does not apply because  the FAC contains no allegations that any party, entity, or Defendants are  employees or contractors of the City working within the scope of their  employment giving rise to Plaintiffs’ claims for which the City would be  liable.” (Demurrer at pp. 8:27-9:2.)  In addition, as discussed, Government  Code section 815.4 provides that “[a] public entity  is liable for injury proximately caused by a tortious act or omission of an  independent contractor of the public entity to the same extent that the public  entity would be subject to such liability if it were a private person. Nothing  in this section subjects a public entity to liability for the act or omission  of an independent contractor if the public entity would not have been liable  for the injury had the act or omission been that of an employee of the public  entity.” The City asserts that “[s]ection 815.4 also does not apply because  there are no allegations in the FAC that any defendants are independent  contractors of the City that caused Plaintiffs’ damages.” (Demurrer at p.  9:5-7) In the opposition, Haller and Tan state that they  “request leave to amend regarding the Nuisance, Trespass, and Negligence causes  of action as the FAC was inadvertently missing necessary language.” (Opp’n at  p. 8:24-26.) Thus, Haller and Tan appear to concede that these causes of action  are insufficiently pled.  Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains the City’s demurrer to the second, fourth, and fifth  causes of action of Haller and Tan’s FAC, with leave to amend.  Motion to Strike  A court may  strike any “¿irrelevant, false, or improper  matter¿inserted in any pleading¿” or any part of  a pleading “¿not drawn or filed in conformity with the  laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 436¿.) “¿The grounds for  a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from  any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 437¿.)   The Moving Parties move to strike the request in Haller and  Tan’s FAC “[f]or exemplary damages.” (FAC, Prayer for Damages, ¶ 2.)   A motion to strike may lie where the facts  alleged do not rise to the level of “¿malice,  oppression or fraud¿” required to support a punitive damages  award. (¿Turman v. Turning  Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 64¿.) As noted by  the Moving Parties, “malice” means  “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or  despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and  conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294,  subd. (c)(1).) “Oppression” means “despicable conduct that  subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that  person’s rights.” (Civ.  Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) “Fraud” means “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or  concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the  part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights  or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)  The Moving  Parties assert that the “FAC pleads no facts whatsoever alleging  fraudulent, malicious, or oppressive conduct by any of the Defendants to  support their prayer for exemplary damages.” (Mot. at p. 6:21-22, emphasis  omitted.)  In the opposition, Haller  and Tan assert that they have alleged “sufficient factual allegations of  Defendants’ willful and conscious disregard for the safety of others, including  [Haller and Tan].” (Opp’n at p. 3:1-2.) Haller and Tan point to, inter alia,  their allegation that “the City and the Defendants were aware that their  actions and inactions, including the plan, design, construction, and  installation of the HAC would or could cause damage to Plaintiffs’ Building and  that the City ignored those potential dangers to Plaintiffs’ Building and  proceeded with its HAC project for the benefit of the public.” (FAC, ¶ 23.) But  this allegation does not reference any impacts to the safety of Haller and Tan  or others. Haller and Tan do not appear to point to any specific allegations of  “conduct which is carried on by the [the Moving  Parties] with a willful and conscious disregard of the…safety of others.”  (Civ. Code, §  3294, subd. (c)(1).)  The Moving Parties also  note that pursuant to Civil Code section 3294,  subdivision (b), “[a]n employer shall not be  liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee  of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of  the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights  or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which  the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or  malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and  conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud,  or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the  corporation.”  The Moving Parties assert  that there, Haller and Tan “do not allege any of Defendants’ employees’  malicious conduct, if any, was perpetrated, authorized, or knowingly ratified  by a corporate officer, director, or managing agent.” (Mot. at p. 7:11-13.) In  the opposition, the Moving Parties assert that “[t]he Court should exercise its  discretion and grant leave to amend to include the additional language  regarding the vicarious liability of the corporate entities.” (Opp’n at p.  6:1-3.) Thus, the Moving Parties appear to concede that the allegations of the  FAC do not satisfy Civil Code section 3294, subdivision  (b). The Moving Parties indicate that “[i]f provided leave to amend the  FAC, Plaintiffs can and will amend the FAC to add in the additional language  regarding the officers’, directors’, and managing agents’ perpetration,  authorization, and ratification of the alleged wrongful conduct.” (Fakhreddine  Decl., ¶ 9.)  Based on the foregoing,  the Court grants the Moving Parties’ motion to strike, with leave to amend.  Conclusion  Based on the foregoing, the City’s  demurrer to the second, third, and fourth causes of action of Kumar’s TAC is  sustained, with leave to amend.  The Court orders  Kumar to file and serve an amended complaint, if any, within 20 days of the  date of this Order. If no amended complaint is filed within 20 days of this  Order, the City is ordered to file and serve its answer to Kumar’s TAC within  30 days of the date of this Order.¿¿  In addition, based on the foregoing, the City’s demurrer to  the first cause of action of Haller and Tan’s FAC is overruled. The City’s  demurrer to the second, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action of Haller and  Tan’s FAC is sustained, with leave to amend. The Moving Parties’ motion to  strike “[f]or exemplary damages” (FAC, p. 11:16) from Haller and Tan’s  FAC is granted, with leave to amend.  The Court orders  Haller and Tan to file and serve an amended complaint, if any, within 20 days  of the date of this Order. If no amended complaint is filed within 20 days of  this Order, the Moving Parties are ordered to file and serve their answer(s) to  Haller and Tan’s FAC within 30 days of the date of this Order.¿¿  The City is ordered to provide notice of this Order.    DATED:  December 4, 2023                          ________________________________ Hon. Rolf M.  Treu Judge, Los  Angeles Superior CourtSuperior
Court of California

County
of Los Angeles

Department 50

 




JAYESH KUMAR,
                        Plaintiff, 
            vs.
THE CITY LOS ANGELES, et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV11937
  [c/w
22STCV19257]




Hearing Date:


December 4, 2023




Hearing Time:


 2:00 p.m.




TENTATIVE RULING
  RE:
 
MOTION
  TO BE RELIEVED AS COUNSEL  
 




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTIONS


 




 

Brigid Joyce, Esq. of Joyce Law, P.C. (“Counsel”) moves to
be relieved as counsel of record for Plaintiff Jayesh Kumar.  

While Counsel has provided
sufficient reason for withdrawal, the Court notes that the proofs of service
attached to the moving papers do not show that Counsel’s client was served with
the motion. Pursuant to California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362,
subdivision (d), “[t]he notice of
motion and motion, the declaration, and the proposed order must be served on
the client and on all other parties who have appeared in the case. The notice
may be by personal service, electronic service, or mail.” 

In
addition, Counsel’s declaration (Form MC-052) and proposed order (Form MC-053)
reference a “Case Management Conference and Hearing on Demurrer” previously scheduled
for September 26, 2023. The declaration and proposed order do not reference any
motion to strike. The Court’s September 26, 2023 minute order in this action
provides, inter alia, that “[o]n the Court’s own motion, the
Hearing on Motion to Strike Joint Motion to Strike Portions of Plaintiffs’
Haller LLC and Shaun Tan’s First Amended Complaint scheduled for 09/26/2023,
and Hearing on Demurrer - without Motion to Strike To Plaintiffs Haller, LLC
and Shaun Tan’s First Amended Complaint and Plaintiff Jayesh Kumar’s Third
Amended Complaint…scheduled for 09/26/2023 are continued to 12/04/23 at 02:00
PM in Department 50 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse.” The Court notes that “[t]he proposed order relieving counsel…must specify all
hearing dates scheduled in the action or proceeding, including the date of
trial, if known.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, subd. (e).) 

Because of the
issues identified above, the motion is denied without prejudice. Counsel is
ordered to give notice of this order. 

 

DATED:  December 4, 2023                          ________________________________

Hon. Rolf M.
Treu

Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court     