Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 20STCV03170
Plaintiff's Name: Jose Luis Sanchez, Manuel Acevedo Fernandez
Defendant's Name: Walt Disney Parks and Resorts U.S., Inc.
People-Names: Jose Luis Sanchez, Manuel Acevedo Fernandez, Diana Eid, Janae Bueno, Rona Kay
Company-Names: Walt Disney Parks and Resorts U.S., Inc., Disney Worldwide Services, Inc.
Places: California
Dates: January 24, 2020, January 29, 2020, March 7, 2024, March 19, 2024, March 22, 2024, March 29, 2024
Events: Termination of employment, filing of lawsuit, motion to compel mental examination
Money: None mentioned
Intentions: To determine the extent of Plaintiffs' mental injuries and their causes
Facts: Plaintiffs were terminated from employment for allegedly watching pornography at work; Plaintiffs deny the allegations and claim that their terminations were motivated by bias
Disputes: Scope of the mental examination, use of certified transcripts, destruction of examination records
Acts: Filing of lawsuit, motion to compel mental examination, stipulation to scope of examination
Agreements: Stipulation to scope of examination, agreement to destroy examination records upon completion of litigation
Laws: Code of Civil Procedure, California Civil Code
Case Citations: Vinson v. Sup. Ct. (1987), Edwards v. Superior Court (1976), Tylo v. Superior Court (1997), Carpenter v. Superior Court (2006)
Statutes: Code of Civil Procedure, California Civil Code
Roles: Judge, Plaintiffs, Defendant, Medical Examiner
Significant Statements:
* "Plaintiffs have placed their mental condition in controversy through their allegations."
* "The scope of inquiry cannot be so narrow because Defendant is entitled to determine whether Plaintiffs have preexisting conditions and to ascertain potential alternative causes."
* "A psychiatrist is the most qualified to determine the necessary scope of a mental examination."
* "We must assume, absent evidence to the contrary, that the examiner will proceed in an ethical manner."
* "The information required by the doctor to properly conduct a mental examination does not amount to the type of 'fishing expedition' disallowed in Tylo."
```

And here is the summary in English text:

The Judge has issued a tentative ruling on a motion to compel a mental examination of the Plaintiffs, Jose Luis Sanchez and Manuel Acevedo Fernandez, by the Defendant, Walt Disney Parks and Resorts U.S., Inc. The Plaintiffs were terminated from employment for allegedly watching pornography at work, but they deny the allegations and claim that their terminations were motivated by bias.

The Judge granted the Defendant's motion, finding that the Plaintiffs have placed their mental condition in controversy through their allegations, and that the Defendant is entitled to determine the extent of the Plaintiffs' mental injuries and their causes. The Judge also ruled that the scope of the mental examination cannot be limited to only the Plaintiffs' employment history with the Defendant, as the Defendant is entitled to determine whether the Plaintiffs have preexisting conditions and to ascertain potential alternative causes.

The Judge also addressed the issue of certified transcripts, finding that the issue is premature and that the Court does not reach the question of whether certified transcripts may be admitted at trial. Finally, the Judge ruled that the Defendant's request to condition the destruction of the examination records on the Plaintiffs releasing any and all claims against the medical examiner, Dr. Rosenberg, and refraining from reporting Dr. Rosenberg to any medical board for perceived issues with the examination, is a reasonable compromise.