 Case Number:  23STCV22852    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
FRANCO LINARES, et al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
R MLK, LLC, et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV22852
  Hearing Date:  March 29, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ demurrer and motion to
  strike 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            This is a habitability complaint
filed by various current and former tenants against the alleged owners or
operators of the subject premises. The complaint asserts causes of action based
on the warranty of habitability, covenant of quiet enjoyment, nuisance,
negligence, Civil Code section 1942.4, and Unfair Competition Law. 
            On February 21, 2024, Defendants
filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike against the complaint.
Plaintiffs filed their opposition on March 18, 2024. Defendants filed their
reply on March 22, 2024.
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face
of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendants have complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Torres-Brito Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Demurrer

            a. Quiet Enjoyment
            Plaintiffs conceded during meet and
confer that this claim is subject to demurrer. (Torres-Brito Decl. ¶ 9.)
Plaintiffs’ opposition does not address this cause of action. Therefore, the
demurrer is sustained without leave to amend as to the third cause of action.
            b. Nuisance
            “Anything which is injurious to
health . . . or is indecent or offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to
the free use of property, so as to interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of
life or property . . . is a nuisance.” (Civ. Code, § 3479.) “It is settled that
where conduct which violates a duty owed to another also interferes with that
party's free use and enjoyment of his property, nuisance liability arises.” (Cutujian
v. Benedict Hills Estates Assn. (1996) 41 Cal.App.4th 1379, 1390.) 
Defendants do not contend that the facts
alleged in the complaint do not fit this definition of nuisance. However,
relying on El Escorial Owners' Assn. v. DLC Plastering, Inc. (2007) 154
Cal.App.4th 1337, Defendants argue that the nuisance claim is duplicative of
the negligence claim and should therefore be stricken. “Where negligence and
nuisance causes of action rely on the same facts about lack of due care, the
nuisance claim is a negligence claim.” (Id. at p. 1349.) The court in El
Escorial based its holding on a concern that the definition of nuisance “is
so broad that it could be applied indiscriminately to everything.” (Id.
at p. 1348.) The court therefore held that the toxic mold contamination claim
in that case “involves a traditional tort that should not be litigated under
the guise of a nuisance action.” (Ibid.) At the same time, the court
acknowledged that “courts have allowed plaintiffs to litigate nuisance causes
of action in cases involving housing conditions.” (Ibid.)  
            In Stoiber
v. Honeychuck (1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, the court held that “[a] nuisance
may be either a negligent or an intentional tort.” (Id. at p. 920.) “The
fact that the defendants' alleged misconduct consists of omission rather than
affirmative actions does not preclude nuisance liability.” (Ibid.) The
plaintiff in Stoiber managed to demonstrate intentional conduct by
alleging that the landlord had actual knowledge of uninhabitable conditions and
“acted with full knowledge of the consequences thereof and the damage being
caused to plaintiff, and their conduct was willful, oppressive and malicious.”
(Ibid.) 
            The
complaint here similarly alleges that Defendants knowingly ignored Plaintiffs’
complaints regarding the uninhabitable conditions and thereby consciously
disregarded Plaintiffs’ rights and safety. (Compl. ¶ 96.) Defendants allegedly
exploited Plaintiffs’ status as low-income tenants who likely had no ability to
defend themselves. (Id., ¶ 66.) The complaint also alleges that
Defendants’ conduct was “intentional, malicious, and oppressive.” (Ibid.)
This sufficiently demonstrates intentional conduct that goes beyond mere lack
of due care. Therefore, Plaintiffs have adequately pled a nuisance claim apart
from negligence. Although Plaintiffs cannot recover twice for the same injury,
at the pleading stage,
“[a] plaintiff may plead cumulative or inconsistent causes of action.” (Gherman v. Colburn (1977) 72
Cal.App.3d 544, 565.) Plaintiffs are entitled to plead multiple theories
arising from the same facts. Therefore, the demurrer is overruled as to the
fourth cause of action.
            c. UCL
            Business and Professions Code
section 17200 prohibits unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business acts or
practices. Each of the three prongs is an independent basis for relief. (Smith
v. State Farm Mutual Automobile Insurance Co. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 700,
718.) “Under the UCL, damages cannot be recovered, and plaintiffs are generally
limited to restitution and injunctive relief.” (Safeway, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 1138, 1147.) 
            The allegations discussed above
sufficiently constitute unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent conduct, and Defendants
acknowledge that Plaintiffs seek restitution. However, Defendants argue that
the UCL claim is duplicative of the habitability claims. As stated above,
Plaintiffs may plead cumulative causes of action even if they do not end up
recovering separately for every cause of action. The UCL also explicitly
provides that “the remedies or penalties provided by this chapter are
cumulative to each other and to the remedies or penalties available under all
other laws of this state.” (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17205.) Therefore, the
demurrer is overruled as to the seventh cause of action. 
            d. Uncertainty
            A demurrer for uncertainty is
disfavored and is only granted “if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a
defendant cannot reasonably respond.” (A.J. Fistes Corp. v. GDL Best
Contractors, Inc. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695.) A complaint does not
need to be a “model of clarity” to survive a demurrer because most ambiguities
can be clarified through discovery. (Ibid.)
            Defendants argue that Plaintiffs
attribute the alleged conduct to all defendants without regard to when each
Defendant owned the property and without specifying which Defendants committed
which actions. Such detail is not required in the complaint because those
questions can be answered by discovery. Plaintiffs are entitled to plead that
all of the Defendants are responsible for all of the alleged wrongdoing, no
matter how improbable that may be. The complaint sufficiently acquaints Defendants
with the nature of the claims.   
II.
Motion to Strike
“In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud
is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”
(Id., subd. (c)(3).)
            As discussed above, the complaint
alleges that Defendants knowingly ignored the uninhabitable conditions while
being aware that Plaintiffs were being harmed. (See, e.g., Compl. ¶¶
64-66.) Defendants allegedly sought to exploit Plaintiffs’ status as low-income
tenants without access to alternate housing or legal support. (Ibid.)
This sufficiently demonstrates malice and oppression for pleading purposes. “A
nuisance may be either a negligent or an intentional tort. If the latter, then
exemplary damages are recoverable.” (Stoiber, supra, 101 Cal.App.3d at
p. 920.) As established above, Plaintiffs have alleged intentional nuisance.
Therefore, the complaint adequately pleads a basis for punitive damages. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ demurrer is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend as to the third cause of action and OVERRULED in all
other respects. The motion to strike is DENIED. 