 Case Number:  24STCV00523    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
KEILYN MEDINA ALCERRO,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
HARDAGE HOSPITALITY, 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  24STCV00523
  Hearing Date:  March 29, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant’s demurrer and motion to
  strike 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On January 8, 2024, Plaintiff Keilyn
Medina Alcerro filed this employment discrimination action against Defendant
Hardage Hospitality and Does 1 through 50. Plaintiff alleges that she was
abruptly fired after suffering a work-related injury and requesting
accommodation. 
            On February 26, 2024, Defendant
filed the instant demurrer and motion to strike against the defamation cause of
action. Plaintiff has not filed an opposition. 
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd.
(a).) A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other
extrinsic matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior
Court (1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the
defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in
any pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face
of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.)
The Court notes that Defendant has complied with the meet and confer
requirement. (See Fleissner Decl.)
DISCUSSION
“The elements of a defamation claim are
(1) a publication that is (2) false, (3) defamatory, (4) unprivileged, and (5)
has a natural tendency to injure or cause special damage.” (Wong v. Jing
(2011) 189 Cal.App.4th 1354, 1369.) 
Plaintiff’s defamation claim is premised
on the allegation that shortly after Plaintiff suffered her injury and
repeatedly reported her pain to supervisors, she was “accused of sexual
harassment by another woman” and accordingly terminated. (Compl. ¶ 21.)
Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants made defamatory statements against
Plaintiff, including a false accusation of sexual harassment in order to
terminate Plaintiff’s employment in retaliation for making a request for
accommodation and her disability.” (Id., ¶ 65.) 
a. Specific Facts
Defendant argues that the complaint does
not identify the person who made the alleged defamatory statement or the person
who received the statement, and does not recite the exact verbiage of the
statement. However, “[l]ess specificity should be required . . . when it
appears from the nature of the allegations that the defendant must necessarily
possess full information concerning the facts of the controversy.” (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement
System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384.) Here, Plaintiff alleges that
Defendant refused to disclose any details of the accusation. (Compl. ¶ 22.) Defendant
acknowledges that it refused to disclose the details of the harassment
complaint, suggesting that Defendant is aware of the accuser’s identity and the
statement made. (See Fleissner Decl. ¶ 4.) Plaintiff cannot allege information
that is currently in Defendant’s exclusive possession. 
The complaint sufficiently identifies the
publication as an accusation of sexual harassment. The nature of the defamatory
statement is clear from the facts alleged such that Defendant is sufficiently
acquainted with the claim. The precise identities of the persons who made and
received the publication, and the exact words said, may be ascertained in
discovery. Plaintiff has asserted the action against Doe defendants and may
amend the complaint once she determines their identities.  
b. Uncertainty
A demurrer for uncertainty is disfavored
and is only granted “if the pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant
cannot reasonably respond.” (A.J. Fistes Corp. v. GDL Best Contractors, Inc.
(2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 677, 695.) A complaint does not need to be a “model of
clarity” to survive a demurrer because most ambiguities can be clarified
through discovery. (Ibid.)
Defendant argues that the defamation claim
is uncertain because Plaintiff alleges in conclusory fashion that the sexual
harassment accusation was false, unprivileged, and published. However, these
are ultimate facts sufficient for pleading. The evidentiary facts proving that
the statement was false, unprivileged, and published should be left for
discovery. The complaint alleges sufficient facts to acquaint Defendant with
the nature of the claim.  
c. Privilege
A privileged publication includes one made
“[i]n a communication, without malice, to a person interested therein, (1) by
one who is also interested, or (2) by one who stands in such a relation to the
person interested as to afford a reasonable ground for supposing the motive for
the communication to be innocent, or (3) who is requested by the person
interested to give the information.” (Civ. Code, § 47(c).) “This privilege is ‘recognized
where the communicator and the recipient have a common interest and the
communication is of a kind reasonably calculated to protect or further that
interest.’” (Hawran v. Hixson (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 256, 287.) However,
the privilege is qualified, and it may be defeated by a showing of actual
malice. Actual malice means that “the publication was motivated by hatred or
ill will towards the plaintiff or . . . that the defendant lacked
reasonable grounds, for belief in the truth of the publication and thereafter
acted in reckless disregard of the plaintiff's rights.” (Id. at p. 288.)

It cannot be determined at the pleading
stage that the alleged defamatory statement falls under the common interest
privilege. In particular, the privilege only applies where the statement is
made without malice, as in without hatred or ill will. However, Plaintiff
alleges that she was falsely accused of sexual harassment as a pretext to
terminate her as retaliation for requesting disability accommodations. For
pleading purposes, this establishes that the statement was made with malice and
thus falls outside the privilege. 
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s demurrer is OVERRULED.
The motion to strike is DENIED.