  Case Number:  20STCV03170    Hearing Date:   March 29, 2024    Dept:  32 


 
JOSE LUIS SANCHEZ, et
  al.,
                        Plaintiffs,
            v.
 
WALT DISNEY PARKS AND RESORTS U.S., INC.,
  et al., 
                        
                        Defendants. 


 
  Case No.:  20STCV03170
  Hearing Date:  March 29, 2024
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendant WDPR’s Motion to compel mental
  examination  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On January 24, 2020, Plaintiffs Jose
Luis Sanchez (Sanchez) and Manuel Acevedo Fernandez (Acevedo) filed this action
against Walt Disney Parks and Resorts U.S., Inc. (WDPR), Disney Worldwide
Services, Inc. (DWWS), Rona Kay (Kay), and Does 1 through 10, alleging
violations of FEHA, wrongful discharge, defamation, and intentional infliction
of emotional distress. The operative First Amended Complaint, filed January 29,
2020, adds Defendants Diana Eid (Eid) and Janae Bueno (Bueno) and asserts
additional FEHA claims. Eid and Bueno were subsequently dismissed on summary
adjudication, along with certain FEHA claims. 
            Plaintiffs worked for Disney from
the 1980s until 2019, when they were terminated. Plaintiffs were terminated for
watching pornography at work. Eid and Bueno allegedly witnessed the incident
and reported it. Plaintiffs deny watching pornography and maintain that Acevedo
was merely showing off pictures of his cats to Sanchez. Plaintiffs claim that
their terminations were motivated by bias against their sexual orientation,
race, age, and disability. 
            On March 7, 2024, Defendant WDPR
filed the instant motion to compel an independent mental examination (IME) of
Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs filed their opposition on March 19, 2024. Defendant
filed its reply on March 22, 2024. 
LEGAL STANDARD
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by
means of a physical or mental examination of (1) a party to the action, (2) an
agent of any party, or (3) a natural person in the custody or under the legal
control of a party, in any action in which the mental or physical condition
(including the blood group) of that party or other person is in controversy in
the action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.020, subd. (a).) “If any party desires to
obtain discovery by . . . a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of
court.” (Id., § 2032.310, subd. (a).) “The court shall grant a motion
for a physical or mental examination under Section 2032.310 only for good cause
shown.” (Id., § 2032.320, subd. (a).)
DISCUSSION
During meet and confer, the parties were
able to stipulate to a substantial portion of the terms of the IME, but reached
an impasse on certain issues: (1) the scope of the interviews; (2) the use of
certified transcripts; and (3) the destruction of materials upon the completion
of litigation. 
a. Scope
“[A] party who chooses to allege that he
has mental and emotional difficulties can hardly deny his mental state is in
controversy.” (Vinson v. Sup. Ct. (1987) 43 Cal.3d 833, 839.) “In
addition, by asserting a causal link between her mental distress and
defendants' conduct, plaintiff implicitly claims it was not caused by a
preexisting mental condition, thereby raising the question of alternative
sources for the distress.” (Id. at p. 840.) Here, good cause exists for
the examination because Plaintiffs have placed their mental condition in
controversy through their allegations. Defendant is entitled to a mental
examination of Plaintiffs to determine the extent of Plaintiffs’ mental
injuries and their causes. 
Plaintiffs do not dispute Defendant’s
right to take an IME but argue that the scope should be limited. In particular,
Plaintiffs seek to limit the scope of the interview to their employment history
with Defendant, going back no further than 1984 and 1985. Plaintiffs also
contend that the IME should only cover the emotional and mental injuries that
Plaintiffs attribute to their employment with Defendant. However, the scope of
inquiry cannot be so narrow because Defendant is entitled to determine whether
Plaintiffs have preexisting conditions and to ascertain potential alternative
causes. The limited scope of inquiry proposed by Plaintiffs presupposes that
Plaintiffs’ mental injuries were solely caused by Defendant’s conduct. However,
Defendant is entitled ascertain evidence proving otherwise. Plaintiffs cannot
accuse Defendant of causing them emotional distress and then preclude Defendant
from proving that the distress was caused by something else. By alleging that
Defendant caused their distress, Plaintiffs necessarily place potential
alternative causes at issue. (See Vinson, supra, 43 Cal.3d at p. 840.)   
Additionally, the information is necessary
for more than identifying alternative causes. Dr. Rosenberg, the examiner
stipulated to by both parties, avers that a typical background inquiry includes
“developmental history, education, employment, social and marital history,
legal history (such as disability claims, if any), general medical history,
prior psychiatric history, substance use, and family history.” (Rosenberg Decl.
¶ 9.) “The developmental history portion includes questions about any emotional
traumas in childhood or adolescence, and the past psychiatric history includes
any emotional traumas as an adult, apart from the allegations in the current
litigation.” (Ibid.) Dr. Rosenberg explains that “[a] detailed
evaluation of this type is important in differentiating between emotional
complaints that may be pre-existing and not related to the alleged actions of
the defendants; complaints that were pre-existing but may have been exacerbated
by the alleged actions of defendants; complaints that arose concurrently but
unrelated to alleged actions of defendants; complaints that arose as a result
of defendants’ alleged conduct; complaints that are actually due to substance
use or medications; complaints that are due to an underlying general medical
disorder; or complaints that arose subsequent to the alleged actions of
defendants and were unrelated.” (Rosenberg Decl. ¶ 11(c).) The proposed areas
of inquiry are consistent with the American Psychiatric Association’s
guidelines, including the DSM-5 manual. (Id., ¶ 11(d)-(f).) 
The Court will not substitute its judgment
for that of the medical expert. “Many questions which would be legally
objectionable, if posed in a courtroom, might be very relevant in the
formulation of a sound psychiatric judgment.” (Edwards v. Superior Court (1976)
16 Cal.3d 905, 911.) A psychiatrist is the most qualified to determine the
necessary scope of a mental examination. (Ibid.) Plaintiffs cite no
expert testimony rebutting Dr. Rosenberg’s assertions. Plaintiffs’ speculation
as to how the information may be misused is insufficient. “We must assume,
absent evidence to the contrary, that the examiner will proceed in an ethical
manner . . . .” (Vinson, supra, 43 Cal.3d at p. 846.)      
Plaintiff relies on Tylo v. Superior
Court (1997) 55 Cal.App.4th 1379 for the proposition that a defendant
cannot use discovery to seek out alternative stressors that may have
contributed to the plaintiff’s alleged emotional distress. Tylo
concerned deposition questions asked by defense counsel regarding the
plaintiff’s marriage. The defendants in Tylo could only speculate that
the plaintiff’s marriage may have contributed to her emotional distress. (Id.
at p. 1388.) The court found that the defendants failed to demonstrate “a nexus
between damages from termination and those which may arise out of the marital
relationship.” (Ibid.) The court in Tylo did not outright
foreclose discovery into alternative stressors. The court actually held that
the defendants could have “obtain[ed] information regarding emotional distress
from the marital relationship” had they demonstrated the relevance of that
information. (Ibid.)
 The
instant case is distinguishable from Tylo because the questions at issue
here will originate from a medical expert for the purpose of conducting an
accurate mental examination, not from a defense counsel who is speculating on potential
alternative stressors. Dr. Rosenberg has averred under oath as to the necessity
of this information, so Defendant is not relying on speculation. As discussed
above, the medical expert is more qualified than counsel to determine the
necessary scope of inquiry during an examination. (See Edwards, supra, 16
Cal.3d at p. 911.) The information required by the doctor to properly conduct a
mental examination does not amount to the type of “fishing expedition”
disallowed in Tylo.    
Plaintiffs next argue that “history” is
only expressly mentioned in Code of Civil Procedure section 2032.610, and
therefore the Legislature could not have intended to allow an inquiry into an
examinee’s history in any other respect. This interpretation is not well-taken.
Section 2032.610 allows the party being examined to demand “[a] copy of a
detailed written report setting out the history, examinations, findings,
including the results of all tests made, diagnoses, prognoses, and conclusions
of the examiner.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.610(a)(1).) This section concerns
the production of documents after an examination. It has no bearing on the
scope of inquiry during the examination. Plaintiff cites no authority
suggesting that the Code precludes inquiry into an examinee’s history during a
mental examination. 
Therefore, the scope of the examination
shall be the scope specified in Dr. Rosenberg’s declaration. (See Rosenberg
Decl. ¶ 9, Ex. C.) 
b. Specifying the Conditions
“An order granting a physical or mental
examination shall specify the person or persons who may perform the
examination, as well as the time, place, manner, diagnostic tests and
procedures, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2032.320(d).) “The way to describe these ‘diagnostic tests and
procedures’—fully and in detail—is to list them by name.” (Carpenter v.
Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 249, 260.) 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant’s motion
fails to provide these details. However, the parties have already stipulated to
a substantial portion of the conditions. Additionally, Dr. Rosenberg’s
declaration, which is part of the motion, sets forth the scope of the
examination and the tests to be conducted therein. (Rosenberg Decl. ¶ 9, Ex.
C.) Therefore, the motion complies with the Code. 
c. Certified Transcripts
During the parties’ meet and confer,
Plaintiffs expressed that they wished to exclude any transcripts of their
statements made during the IME. Defendant’s motion argues that there should be
no such restriction and that Plaintiffs’ request amounts to a premature motion in
limine. The Court agrees that the issue is premature. The question
presently before the Court is whether Plaintiffs must submit to an IME. The
Court does not reach the question of whether certified transcripts may be
admitted at trial. 
d. Destruction of Materials 
Both parties are amenable to Dr. Rosenberg
destroying records of the IME upon the conclusion of this litigation. However,
Defendant requests that this be conditioned on Plaintiffs releasing any and all
claims against Dr. Rosenberg related to the IME and to not report Dr. Rosenberg
to any medical board for perceived issues with the IME. This is a reasonable
compromise that avoids the incongruous result wherein Plaintiffs could sue Dr.
Rosenberg for his conduct at the IME after making the doctor destroy potentially
exculpatory evidence. 
Plaintiffs argue that “Dr. Rosenberg has
no right to maintain Plaintiffs’ medical records beyond the conclusion of this
matter” regardless of whether Plaintiffs stipulate to releasing claims against
him. (Opp. 8:6-14.) The Code is silent on whether a medical examiner may retain
records of an exam past the conclusion of litigation. Plaintiffs cite no
authority requiring the destruction of examination records, nor do Plaintiffs
explain why Dr. Rosenberg should be required to destroy potentially exculpatory
evidence while they retain the right to sue him for conduct arising from the
IME.  
If Plaintiffs wish to stipulate to the
immediate destruction of the records upon the completion of litigation, they
shall also stipulate to release all claims against Dr. Rosenberg arising from
the IME and to refrain from reporting Dr. Rosenberg to any medical board for
conduct related to the IME. Otherwise, the records shall be destroyed upon the
expiration of the statute of limitations on any legal claim or medical board
complaint that Plaintiffs may bring against Dr. Rosenberg arising from the IME.
   
CONCLUSION
            Defendant’s motion to compel mental
examination is GRANTED as set forth above. Sanctions are denied as the parties
acted with substantial justification.  
 