  Case Number:  22STCV13023    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


September
  12, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22STCV13023




MOTION


Motion
  for Summary Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants
  Lithia Motors, Inc., Lithia Motors Support Services, Inc., and Van Nuys-L,
  Inc.




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Kenneth Oleesky


 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Kenneth
Oleesky (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants Lithia Motors, Inc., Lithia Motors
Support Services, Inc., and Van Nuys-L, Inc. (“Van Nuys-L,” collectively, “Defendants”)
for disability discrimination.  Plaintiff
contends Defendants did not accommodate his disability, which resulted from a
COVID-19 infection.  Defendants move for
summary judgment on Plaintiff’s operative complaint, or, in the alternative,
summary adjudication.          Defendants fail to
specify any issues for summary adjudication in their notice of motion.  The Court cannot grant relief that is not set
forth in the notice of motion.  As such,
the Court cannot grant this relief. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1010; Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1110(a).)  Further,
as Defendants fail to specify any issues for summary adjudication in their
notice of motion, Defendants have not “repeated, verbatim, in the separate
statement of undisputed material facts” each issue on which Defendants seek
summary adjudication and identified “each supporting material fact claimed to
be without dispute with respect to” each issue.  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(b),
(d).) Accordingly, the Court denies the motion for summary adjudication as
procedurally improper. “There is little flexibility in the procedural
imperatives of [Code of Civil Procedure section 437c], and the issues raised by
a motion for summary judgment (or summary adjudication) are pure questions of
law.  As a result, section 437c is
unforgiving; a failure to comply with any one of its myriad requirements is
likely to be fatal to the offending party.”  (Brantley v. Pisaro (1996) 42
Cal.App.4th 1591, 1607.)  
The Court
considers the motion as a motion for summary judgment only.  Plaintiff opposes the motion.
LEGAL STANDARD – MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
“[T]he party moving for summary judgment bears the
burden of persuasion that there is no triable issue of material fact and that
he is entitled to judgment as a matter of law[.] There is a triable issue of
material fact if, and only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of
fact to find the underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in
accordance with the applicable standard of proof.”  (Aguilar v.
Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.)  “[T]he party
moving for summary judgment bears an initial burden of production to make a
prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue of material fact;
if he carries his burden of production, he causes a shift, and the opposing
party is then subjected to a burden of production of his
own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.”  (Ibid.)  
EVIDENCE
Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objection No. 2 is sustained. 
Plaintiff’s other evidentiary objection is overruled.
            Defendants
object to the authentication of exhibits, not to the contents of the exhibits
themselves.  The testimony authenticating
the exhibits is not objectionable. 
Accordingly, Defendants’ objections are overruled.
DISCUSSION
First and Third Causes of Action:
Discrimination and Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations
            Plaintiff’s
first cause of action is for discrimination under the Fair Employment and
Housing Act, or FEHA.  To state such a
claim, the employee must demonstrate “(1) the employee's membership in a classification
protected by the statute; (2) discriminatory animus on the part of the employer
toward members of that classification; (3) an action by the employer adverse to
the employee's interests; (4) a causal link between the discriminatory animus and
the adverse action; (5) damage to the employee; and (6) a causal link between
the adverse action and the damage.”  (Mamou
v. Trendwest Resorts, Inc. (2008) 165 Cal.App.4th 686, 713.)  “A defending employer seeking summary
judgment in a discrimination case may meet its burden by showing that one or
more of these prima facie elements is lacking, or that the adverse employment
action was based on legitimate nondiscriminatory factors.  [¶]  If
the employer has met its burden by showing a legitimate reason for its conduct,
the employee must demonstrate a triable issue by producing substantial evidence
that the employer's stated reasons were untrue or pretextual, or that the
employer acted with a discriminatory animus, such that a reasonable trier of
fact could conclude that the employer engaged in intentional discrimination or
other unlawful action.”  (Cucuzza v.
City of Santa Clara (2002) 104 Cal.App.4th 1031, 1038, internal citation
omitted.)  
Plaintiff’s third
cause of action is for failure to provide reasonable accommodations.  As Plaintiff’s employers, Defendants had to
reasonably accommodate any of Plaintiff’s known disabilities to enable
Plaintiff to perform the essential functions of Plaintiff’s job, unless doing
so would produce undue hardship to Defendants’ operations.  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (m); 2 Cal. Code Regs.,
§ 11068, subd. (a).)  In the operative
second amended complaint, Plaintiff alleges COVID-19 caused him to have trouble
breathing, chronic exhaustion, and fatigue; his doctor placed him on leave from
work, which Defendants initially approved; however, Defendant stopped approving
Plaintiff’s requests for leave and terminated Plaintiff’s employment on
December 13, 2021.  (Second Amended Complaint,
¶¶ 18-26.)  
In moving for
summary judgment on Plaintiff’s claims for discrimination and failure to
provide reasonable accommodations, Defendants satisfy their burden with
evidence that Defendants had a legitimate reason to terminate Plaintiff’s
employment. (Kelly v. Stamps.com Inc. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 1088,
1097-98.)  Plaintiff submitted a series
of documentation concerning his inability to work:  On January 4, 2021,[1]
Plaintiff requested a leave of absence through March 1; on January 22,  Plaintiff submitted documentation from his
healthcare provider, which reflect Plaintiff could not perform any of his job
functions from December 21, 2020 through January 31; on February 1, Plaintiff
submitted additional documentation, which stated Plaintiff was unable to work
through February 15; then, on February 15, Plaintiff submitted further
documentation indicating Plaintiff could not work through February 28; documentation
Plaintiff submitted on February 26 revealed he could not work through March 15;
on March 16, Plaintiff submitted additional documentation, this time stating he
could not work through March 28; and through paperwork Plaintiff submitted on March
17, he indicated he could not perform any job functions though March 28.  Defendants accepted and approved all of
Plaintiff’s requests noted above. (Declaration of Diana Rusnick in Support of
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment, ¶ 10, Exhibit A.)
Plaintiff then
began to similarly submit documentation in which he requested reasonable accommodations.  For example, on March 19, Plaintiff requested
a reasonable accommodation in which he related he could not work at all through
March 28 because he was totally incapacitated, but he would be able to return
to work without any restrictions on March 29; on March 29, Plaintiff submitted
another request for a reasonable accommodation, in which Plaintiff’s healthcare
provider stated he could not work at all through April 9 but also related Plaintiff
could return to work without any restrictions on April 10; and on April 9,
Plaintiff submitted a request for a reasonable accommodation, in which
Plaintiff’s healthcare provider stated Plaintiff could not work at all through April
26 but could return to work without any restrictions on April 27. (Rusnick Decl.,
¶ 10, Exhibit A.)
  This pattern of Plaintiff requesting
continued reasonable accommodations due to being totally incapacitated before,
and a couple of times after, the time for his return to work without
restrictions had expired continued up through November 30 when Plaintiff
submitted another request for accommodation in which his healthcare provider
stated he could not work at all through December 9 but could return to work
without restrictions on December 10.  Thereafter,
Plaintiff did not submit another request for accommodation, nor did Plaintiff
appear for work on December 10 through 14. 
(Rusnick Decl., ¶ 10, Exhibit A.) 
Defendants had accepted and approved all of the requests for accommodations
up to this time.  On December 15, when Rusnick
called Plaintiff and asked him if he intended to return to work on December 29 based
an oral request he had made on December 10 for a further leave extension,
Plaintiff responded he did not know when he could return to work because his doctor
was keeping him off work.  (Id., ¶¶
14, 15.)  Defendants concluded they could
not accommodate what amounted to an indefinite leave for Plaintiff and
terminated his employment as of that date. 
(Id., ¶¶ 15, 16, Exhibits B, C.)  

Plaintiff does not
dispute these facts.  However, in
response to Defendants’ discovery, Plaintiff stated, “Rather than engaging in
the mandatory good faith interactive process or offering reasonable
accommodations for Plaintiff’s disabilities, on or about December 13, 2021, Defendants
discriminated and retaliated against Plaintiff and wrongfully terminated him
because of his disabilities and need for reasonable accommodations.  . . .  ¶  However, Defendants’ explanation for
terminating Plaintiff’s employment was mere pretext for discrimination and
retaliation as Plaintiff’s medical leave did not pose an undue hardship.  Defendants had been able to accommodate
Plaintiff’s medical leave up to that point without any hardship.  Moreover, Defendants engage in ‘evergreen
recruiting,’ meaning it always has open job postings at its dealerships.  Therefore, there are always open positions at
Defendants’ dealerships that could have been offered to Plaintiff once he was
cleared to return to work.”  (Declaration
of Sara G. Noel in Support of Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment, Exhibit E,
p. 11.)  Plaintiff further stated he “needed
an accommodation to perform his job, including, but not limited to, an extended
leave of absence, a modification or adjustment to his job that would enable
Plaintiff to perform the essential functions of the job, a modified work
schedule, modifying an employer policy, a temporary assignment to a vacant
position, and other similar accommodations.” 
(Id., Exhibit E, p. 18.)  
When asked to
state all evidence in support of his claim he could perform the essential
duties of his job for Defendants, Plaintiff stated he “did so . . . before [he]
was physically disabled as a result of Covid-19 . . . .”  (Noel Decl., Exhibit F, p. 4.)  Plaintiff added he was not able to perform
his job duties at the time Defendants terminated his employment.  (Id., Exhibit F, p. 5.)  But Plaintiff declared he could have
performed his job if Defendants had “changed Plaintiff’s job responsibilities
or work schedule; . . . reassigned Plaintiff to a vacant position; . . .
modified or provided Plaintiff with equipment or devices; . . . provided
Plaintiff with a further three- to four-week leave of absence without causing
themselves an undue hardship; . . . reassigned Plaintiff to a vacant remote
sales position; . . . provided Plaintiff with more breaks; . . . allowed
Plaintiff to sit down while working; . . . created a hybrid schedule for
Plaintiff, allowing him to work both from home and Defendants’ dealership . . .
.”  (Id., Exhibit F, p. 7.)  However, the documentation from Plaintiff’s
healthcare provider Plaintiff provided to Defendants while he worked for
Defendants stated Plaintiff was wholly incapacitated and unable to work at all.  The only accommodation that could address
complete incapacitation was a leave of absence. 
A finite leave of
absence may be a reasonable accommodation if the employee will resume work
after the leave expires.  (2 Cal. Code
Regs, tit. 2, § 11068, subd. (c).) 
However, ‘“[r]easonable accommodation does not require the employer to
wait indefinitely for an employee's medical condition to be corrected.”’  (Hanson v. Lucky Stores, Inc. (1999) 74
Cal.App.4th 215, 226-227.)  In the
instant case, Defendants have presented evidence demonstrating the only
accommodation available to address Plaintiff’s condition was an indefinite
leave.  That accommodation is
unreasonable as a matter of law.  Defendants’
evidence meets their burden to show Plaintiff cannot prevail on his claim for
disability discrimination or for failure to provide reasonable accommodations
because Defendants could not reasonably accommodate Plaintiff’s condition.  Defendants, therefore, have shifted the
burden to Plaintiff to raise triable issues of fact as to whether Defendants
discriminated against Plaintiff because of his disability or failed to
reasonably accommodate that disability.  (See
Soria v. Univision Radio Los Angeles, Inc. (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 570,
591-592 [when an employer rebuts any presumption of discrimination by producing
evidence that its action was taken for a legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason, the
employe must then show that reason was actually a pretext for discrimination]e
employer’s proffered nondiscriminatory reason].)
In opposition,
Plaintiff advances the testimony of three of Defendants’ persons most
knowledgeable on specified matters. 
First, Diana Rusnick (“Rusnick”) testified Defendants terminated
Plaintiff’s employment because of the undue hardship of his ongoing and
indefinite leave of absence.  (Plaintiff’s
Compendium of Evidence in Support of Opposition to Motion for Summary Judgment
(Compendium), Exhibit 1, pp. 106-107.) 
Rusnick also testified Plaintiff represented he could not commit to any return
date.  (Id., Exhibit 1, p. 112.)  This evidence does not raise triable issues
of material fact.  Rather, it tends to
confirm Defendants terminated Plaintiff’s employment because Defendants could
not accommodate Plaintiff’s request for an indefinite leave.
Rusnick also
testified Defendants could have accommodated part-time work for Plaintiff.  (Compendium, Exhibit 1, p. 292.)  However, as set forth above, at the time
Defendants terminated Plaintiff’s employment, the documentation Defendants had received
showed Plaintiff was wholly incapacitated such that an indefinite leave was the
only accommodation available.  Likewise,
Rusnick’s testimony Defendants did not ask for alternative accommodations for
Plaintiff (id., Exhibit 2, p. 402) is irrelevant because Plaintiff’s documentation
revealed he was incapacitated.  (Id.,
Exhibit 2, p. Lithia0053.)  As such, no
accommodation other than indefinite leave was available.  
Second, Gina Morse
(“Morse”) testified, because Plaintiff presented Defendants with documentation he
was unable to work, Defendants could not permit Plaintiff to return to work
without documentation from his healthcare provider Plaintiff could return to
work.  (Compendium, Exhibit 3, p. 145;
see also Exhibit 7, p. 50.)  Plaintiff,
therefore, argues Defendants could not have expected Plaintiff to return to
work as scheduled, because Plaintiff had not submitted the pertinent
documentation.  This is immaterial, and the
argument is unavailing.  Again, Defendants
were not required to accommodate Plaintiff’s need for an indefinite leave.
Third, Angela
Taber (“Taber”) testified Defendants consider leave of more than one year
indefinite.  (Compendium, Exhibit 5, p. 183.)  This testimony is immaterial.  Regardless of whether Defendants had such a
policy, Plaintiff was unable to provide Defendants with a timeframe for his
return to work.  As such, his leave was
indefinite.
Plaintiff argues
he could have returned to work on December 30 without restrictions.  In support of this argument, Plaintiff cites
a notation in his medical record, which reflects that Plaintiff had received a
note placing him off work until December 29. 
(Compendium, Exhibit 37, p. 002390.) 
But this is not evidence Plaintiff could return to work without
accommodations on December 30.  Further,
Plaintiff ignores the uncontroverted evidence that every note from Plaintiff’s
medical providers had an end date, and Plaintiff failed to return to work after
the expiration of those dates.  
Therefore, Plaintiff
fails to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether Defendants
discriminated against Plaintiff and failed to provide reasonable accommodations.
Second Cause of Action: Failure
to Engage in a Good Faith Interactive Process
An employer must
engage in a “timely, good faith interactive process . . . in response to a
request for reasonable accommodation by an employee or applicant with a known
physical or mental disability or known medical condition.”  (Gov. Code, § 12940, subd. (n); see 2 Cal.
Code Regs, tit. 2, § 11069, subd. (a).)
Plaintiff alleges
he “was able to perform the essential functions of his job as an Internet Sales
Manager with reasonable accommodations, including but not limited to a medical
leave of absence or remote work with intermittent breaks for resting and
recovery. Providing PLAINTIFF with such accommodations would not have caused
DEFENDANTS any undue hardship.”  (Second
Amended Complaint, ¶ 103.)  However, as
set forth above, Defendants provided Plaintiff with a leave of absence from
January 4 through December 15.  According
to Plaintiff’s medical providers, Plaintiff was completely incapacitated and
could not work at all.  As such, the only
accommodation available was a leave of absence. 
However, because an indefinite leave of absence is not a reasonable
accommodation as a matter of law, and Defendants did provide Plaintiff with the
accommodation he requested until it became unreasonably burdensome on
Defendants, Defendants satisfied their burden of showing Plaintiff cannot
prevail on the claim for failure to engage in a good faith interactive process.  Thus, Defendants shifted the burden to
Plaintiff to raise triable issues of material fact concerning this claim.
            As
set forth above, Plaintiff advances evidence other accommodations for
Plaintiff, such as part-time work, would not have presented an undue hardship
for Defendants.  However, the
documentation Plaintiff provided to Defendants showed Plaintiff was
incapacitated and unable to work indefinitely. 
Defendant was not required to accommodate this request.  Likewise, Plaintiff’s argument Defendants
should have hired a vocational specialist to evaluate alternative arrangements
for Plaintiff is unavailing.  Plaintiff’s
medical paperwork informed Defendants he was off work.  As such, no accommodation other than leave
was appropriate.  Therefore, Plaintiff has
failed to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether Defendants failed
to engage in the interactive process.
Fourth and Sixth Causes of Action:
Failure to Prevent Discrimination and Retaliation
            Plaintiff’s
claims for failure to prevent discrimination and retaliation are derivative of
his claims for discrimination and retaliation. 
Where triable issues of material fact exist as to discrimination and retaliation
claims that preclude summary adjudication, those issues likewise preclude
summary adjudication on claims for failure to prevent discrimination and retaliation.  (Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009)
178 Cal.App.4th 243, 288.)  As set forth
above and below, Plaintiff fails to raise triable issues of material fact as to
whether Defendants discriminated or retaliated against Plaintiff.  Plaintiff likewise fails to raise triable
issues of material fact as to whether Defendants failed to prevent
discrimination or retaliation.
Fifth Cause of Action: Retaliation
To prevail on a
claim for retaliation, Plaintiff must establish “by a preponderance of the
evidence, that retaliation for an employee's protected activities was a
contributing factor in a contested employment action. . . . Once the plaintiff
has made the required showing, the burden shifts to the employer to
demonstrate, by clear and convincing evidence, that it would have taken the
action in question for legitimate, independent reasons even had the plaintiff
not engaged in protected activity.” (Lawson v. PPG Architectural Finishes,
Inc. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 703, 718.)
As set forth
above, Defendants advance evidence that Defendants terminated Plaintiff’s
employment because they could not accommodate Plaintiff’s request for essentially
an indefinite leave. Thus, Defendants shifted the burden to Plaintiff to raise
triable issues of fact as to whether Defendants improperly terminated
Plaintiff’s employment.  Plaintiff fails
to raise triable issues as to whether Defendants’ termination of Plaintiff was
pretextual.  
Seventh Cause of Action: Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy
California law
provides “a tort remedy when an employer's discharge of an employee contravenes
the dictates of public policy.” (Tameny v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (1980)
27 Cal.3d 167, 177.)  As set forth above,
Defendants have presented evidence of terminating Plaintiff’s employment for
valid reasons.  This evidence meets
Defendants’ burden of showing Plaintiff cannot prevail on his claim for
wrongful termination in violation of public policy.  Defendants thereby shifted the burden to
Plaintiff to raise triable issues of material fact in contravention.  Plaintiff has not raised triable issues of
material fact as to whether Defendants’ termination of Plaintiff was
pretextual.
Eighth Cause of Action: Failure
to Timely Pay Wages
An employer who
discharges an employee must immediately pay all compensation due and owing. (Lab.
Code, § 201, subd. (a).)  The employer
must pay the employee “at the place of discharge . . . .”  (Lab. Code, § 208.)  At the time Defendants terminated Plaintiff’s
employment, Plaintiff had not worked at his worksite in 49 weeks.  As such, Defendants could not tender his
outstanding compensation at the worksite. 
Further, Plaintiff maintained he was incapacitated, and could not come
to work.  Defendants’ evidence is that
they sent Plaintiff a check for his outstanding wages by FedEx overnight on December
15, the date he was terminated, and the check arrived on December 17.  (Declaration of Gina Morse in Support of
Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment, ¶ 27.) 
Under these circumstances, the payment was not untimely.  
Defendants met
their burden by showing Plaintiff cannot
prevail on this claim and shifted the burden to Plaintiff to raise triable
issues of material fact.  Plaintiff does
not dispute these facts.  As such,
Plaintiff fails to raise triable issues of material fact as to whether
Defendants failed to pay wages due at the time of his termination.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is granted
Defendants are ordered to give notice of the
Court’s order and to file proof of service of same.


