 Case Number:  24STCV04065    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  39  TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


39




HEARING DATE


September 12, 2024




CASE NUMBER


24STCV04065




MOTIONS


Motion to Strike Portions of Complaint




MOVING PARTY


Defendants New Pershing Apartments, L.P. and SRHT Property
  Management Company




OPPOSING PARTY


Plaintiffs Donna Bolden, Loretta Hartfield, Jane Burton,
  Barron McCall, Manuela Guillen, Michael Rimson, Raul Perez, Deon Smith, Lee
  Shackleford, Burnell Jackson, Melody Mann, Ernest Thomas, Robyy Acosta,
  Dwayne Gooden, John Amadie, Brian King, Larann Tibben, Taletha McDaniels,
  Larry Allensworth, Rebekah Sutton, Raven Anderson, Jerry Graves, Toni Rivera,
  Irene Valencia, Francis Nepomuceno, Donald Coleman, Edward Hanible, Chrishawn
  Bowser, Glenn Work, and Carlos Perez



 
MOTION
Plaintiffs Donna
Bolden, Loretta Hartfield, Jane Burton, Barron McCall, Manuela Guillen, Michael
Rimson, Raul Perez, Deon Smith, Lee Shackleford, Burnell Jackson, Melody Mann,
Ernest Thomas, Robyy Acosta, Dwayne Gooden, John Amadie, Brian King, Larann Tibben,
Taletha McDaniels, Larry Allensworth, Rebekah Sutton, Raven Anderson, Jerry
Graves, Toni Rivera, Irene Valencia, Francis Nepomuceno, Donald Coleman, Edward
Hanible, Chrishawn Bowser, Glenn Work, and Carlos Perez (“Plaintiffs”) sued Defendants
New Pershing Apartments, L.P. and SRHT Property Management Company (“Defendants”)
for habitability violations.  Defendants move
to strike portions of the first amended complaint.  Plaintiffs oppose the motion.  
ANALYSIS
Any party, within
the time allowed to respond to a pleading, may serve and file a motion to
strike the whole pleading or any part thereof. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(1); Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1322(b).)  On a motion to strike, the court may: (1)
strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading;
or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the
court.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd.
(a)-(b); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42
Cal.2d 767, 782.)
Defendants move to
strike the punitive damages allegations. 
In ruling on a motion to strike punitive damages, “judges read
allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts
in their context, and assume their truth.” 
(Clauson v. Superior Court
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)  To
state a prima facie claim for punitive damages, a plaintiff must allege the
elements set forth in the punitive damages statute, Civil Code section 3294.  (College
Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 721 (College Hospital).)  A plaintiff must allege that the defendant
has been guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. 
(Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) 
“Malice is defined in the statute as conduct intended by the defendant
to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by
the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of
others.”  (College Hospital, supra, 8 Cal.4th at p.
725.)  “The mere allegation an
intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of
punitive damages.  Not only must there be
circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the
pleading to support such a claim.”  (Grieves v. Superior Ct. (1984) 157
Cal.App.3d 159, 166, internal citations and footnotes omitted.)  
Plaintiffs allege various
habitability violations existed in their rental units, including inadequate weather
protection, internal water leaks that resulted in mold and dampness, vermin
infestation, heating, ventilation, and electrical wiring issues, and physical
damage to amenities, and Defendants failed to remedy these conditions.  (First Amended Complaint, ¶¶ 44-46, 50-57.)  Plaintiffs further allege Defendants’ “conduct
[was] oppressive, willful, malicious, negligent and was carried out with a
conscious disregard for Plaintiffs’ legal rights and safety.  Defendants acted purposefully in order to
vex, injure and annoy Plaintiffs for the purpose of forcing them to abandon
their legal prerogative and further to punish them for seeking redress of their
concerns regarding the condition of the Subject Property with housing
authorities.”  (Id., ¶ 63.)  Plaintiff do not allege specific facts to
support these conclusions; for example, details of any particular action that was
taken or not taken, specifically by whom, and when.  
Further, Plaintiffs
allege Defendants are entities.  “[T]he
imposition of punitive damages upon a corporation is based upon its own fault.  It is not imposed vicariously by virtue of the
fault of others.” (City Products Corp. v. Globe Indemnity Co. (1979) 88
Cal. App. 3d 31, 36.) “Corporations are legal entities which do not have minds
capable of recklessness, wickedness, or intent to injure or deceive.  An award of punitive damages against a
corporation therefore must rest on the malice of the corporation’s employees.  But the law does not impute every employee’s
malice to the corporation.  Instead, the
punitive damages statute requires proof of malice among corporate leaders: the
officers, directors, or managing agents.” (Cruz v. Home Base (2000) 83
Cal. App. 4th 160, 167, internal quotations and citation omitted.)  Although Plaintiffs generally1mention Martha
Villalba and Eboni Vasquez are directors of Defendants (First Amended Complaint,
¶ 47), Plaintiffs do not allege with specificity which of Defendants’ officers,
directors, or managing agents acted with oppression, fraud, or malice towards
Plaintiffs and how they did so.  Accordingly,
the Court strikes the prayer for punitive damages but grants Plaintiffs an
opportunity to amend.
Defendants argue the
Court should strike Plaintiffs’ allegations about events that happened after
the property at which Plaintiffs reside entered court-ordered receivership,
because Defendants had no control over the property after that point.  To determine whether Defendants had control
over the property at a given point, the Court must consider extrinsic evidence,
which the Court cannot do in ruling on the motion to strike.  (CPF Agency Corp. v. R&S Towing Service
(2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 1014, 1032.) 
Further, a motion to strike cannot be used as a “‘line item veto’ for
the civil defendant . . . .” (PH II, Inc. v. Superior Court (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 1680, 1683.) The motion to strike these allegations is, therefore,
denied.
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
Defendants’ motion
to strike the prayer for punitive damages against Defendants is granted with
leave to amend.  Defendants’ motion to
strike is otherwise denied.
Plaintiffs are to
file an amended complaint within 10 days of their receipt of this order.
Defendants are
ordered to provide notice and to file proof of service of same. 
 