  Case Number:  22STCV04623    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



 ERIKA PINHEIRO, an individual, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
 WELD-ON
  ADHESIVES, INC., a California Corporation; IPS CORPORATION, a Delaware
  Corporation; JEFFERY LEMONS, an Individual; PRATAP PADALKAR, an Individual;
  and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV04623
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO QUASH
 
Date: January 6, 2025
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY:  Plaintiff Erika Pinheiro (“Plaintiff”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendants IPS Corporation, Weld-On Adhesives, Inc., Jeffrey Lemons, and
Pratap Padalkar (collectively, “Defendants”) 
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
             This action arises
out of an employment relationship. On February 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
complaint (the “Complaint”) against Defendants alleging causes of action for:
(1) discrimination based on gender [Gov. Code § 12940(a)]; (2) harassment based
on gender [Gov. Code § 12940(j)]; (3) discrimination based on disability [Gov.
Code § 12940(a)]; (4) failure to provide reasonable accommodations: (5) failure
to engage in the interactive process [Gov. Code § 12940(n); (6) failure to
prevent discrimination and harassment [Gov. Code § 12940(k)]; (7) retaliation
in violation of the FEHA [Gov. Code § 12940(h)]; (8) whistleblower retaliation
[Labor Code § 1102.5]; (9) whistleblower retaliation [Labor Code § 6310]; and
(10) wrongful termination in violation of public policy. 
 
On November 26,
2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to quash Defendants’ deposition subpoena
of employment records and request for sanctions (the “Motion”). Defendants
filed an opposition (the “Opposition”) on December 20, 2024, and Plaintiff
filed a reply (the “Reply”) on December 27, 2024.             
 
DISCUSSION
            Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”)
section 1987.1 states, “[w]hen a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness
or the production of books, documents or other things before a court, or at the
trial of an issue therein, …, upon motion reasonably made by the party, the
witness, or any consumer described in Section 1985.3, or upon the court's own
motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an
order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance
with it upon such terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including
protective orders.” There is no requirement that the motion contain a
meet-and-confer declaration demonstrating a good-faith attempt at informal
resolution. (Id.) A motion to quash does require a separate statement,
unless the party being subpoenaed did not provide any response to the subpoena.
(Rules of Court, rule 3.1345(a)(5), (b)(6).)  
 
“Unless otherwise limited by order of the
court in accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding
any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in
the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action,
if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Discovery may
relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other
party to the action. Discovery may be obtained of the identity and location of
persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the
existence, description, nature, custody, condition, and location of any
document, electronically stored information, tangible thing, or land or other
property.” (CCP § 2017.010.) 
 
            Plaintiff moves to quash the
deposition subpoena issued to Magnit Global, Plaintiff’s current employer, on
the grounds that the subpoena is overbroad, invades Plaintiff’s constitutional
right to privacy, the information sought is not directly relevant to the
litigation and Defendants do not have a compelling need for the records sought.
The subpoena seeks the following information: “Any and all documents referring
or relating to ERIKA PINHEIRO's personnel records during his application
process and employment with MAGNIT GLOBAL, including but not limited to
employment applications, job offer, reference letters, certificates, diplomas,
licenses, acceptance letters, job duties, job description, evaluation and/or
performance reports, medical and sick leave requests, requests for short-term
disability, requests for long-term disability, requests for time-off, and any
written determination by MAGNIT GLOBAL as to any such request by ERIKA
PINHEIRO, dates of employment and/or services, attendance and/or time records,
termination records, payroll records, time cards, contracts, correspondence,
emails, facsimiles, notes, memorandums, reports, charts, and/or spreadsheets,
sales, and/or incentive agreements, sales and/or commission reports, awards,
salaries, commissions, wage statements and/or paystubs, W-2s and/or I 099s,
worker's compensation and/or disability claims, discipline, investigation
reports, demands and complaints made against the company and/or coworkers,
settlement agreements, arbitration demands, claims filed with EDD, complaints
and/or lawsuits filed with the EEOC, CRD (formerly known as the DFEH), and/or
any state or federal court.” (Nunez Decl., Ex. 1) 
 
            Defendants argue that the records
sought are “discoverable, relevant, and admissible” because “Plaintiff’s
evaluations and/or performance reports, requests for time off, requests for
sick leave and disability, attendance and time records, awards, sales and/or
commission reports, and discipline records would all speak to Plaintiff’s
performance and inability to work. . . . Further, requests for long-term or
short-term disability, and time off, will speak to Plaintiff’s alleged
disability and its alleged affect on her ability to find work.” (Opp. pp. 5:28-6:5)

 
            In the Complaint, Plaintiff prays
for, among other things, “all actual, consequential and incidental financial
losses, including without limitation loss of salary and benefits, together with
prejudgment interest, according to proof.” (Compl. p. 30) Evidence of
Plaintiff’s wages, benefits, and other forms of compensation, including her evaluations
and/or performance reports, requests for time off, requests for sick leave and
disability, attendance and time records, awards, sales and/or commission
reports, and discipline records would all speak to Plaintiff’s performance and
inability to work, and requests for long-term or short-term disability, and
time off from her current employer are also relevant to assessing her damages
claims. 
 
Thus, the Court DENIES the Motion. 
 
Request
for Sanctions
The court shall impose monetary sanctions
against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a
motion to quash a deposition notice, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust (CCP, § 2025.410 subd. (d).) 
 
            Plaintiff requests sanctions against
Defendants and their attorneys of record in the amount of $4,5060 based upon
counsel’s rate of $500/hour for: (1) 5.0 hours drafting this Motion and the supporting
documents; (2) 4.0 hours to respond to the Opposition and attend the hearing on
this matter; and (3) $60 in filing fees. Because Plaintiff has unsuccessfully
made a motion to quash a deposition notice, the Court also DENIES the sanctions
request. 
 
            The Motion to Quash is DENIED
.
 
Moving
Party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative
must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the
instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not receive an email
and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion will be placed off
calendar.
 
Dated this 6th day of January 2025
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



