  Case Number:  24STCV01427    Hearing Date:   July 31, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Shuolin Wen,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
24STCV01427




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




Qingzhou Zhu, et
  al.,


 
 
 
Defendants.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: July
31, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice
Leiter
 
1.         Demurrer and Motion to Strike by Defendant
Skybox Holdings 81
2.         Demurrer by Defendants Zhu, Wong,
Zhang, and LA Fruity Inc.
3.         Demurrer by Defendant JPMorgan Chase,
N.A.’
 
T/R:     The demurrers are sustained with 30 days
leave to amend.
 
Plaintiff to give notice.
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at¿SMCdept54@lacourt.org¿with notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented
party) before 8:30 am on the day of the hearing.
 
            The Court considers the moving
papers, oppositions, and replies. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiff Shuolin Wen
sued Defendants Qingzhou Zhu, Fangshuo Guo, Guoqiang Zhu, Sisley Wong, Xiaodan
Zhang, Hanh Phuong Giang, Yash Dave, Skybox Holdings 81, SAM Management,
LLC, Wharf Fun, Inc., Green Planets Express, Ice Castle Inc., Casa
Cannabis Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., and LA Fruity Inc. on January 18,
2024.
 
            On May 3, 2024,
Plaintiff filed the operative first amended complaint (“FAC”). It asserts twenty-seven
causes of action: twelve of breach of contract (1, 3, 6, 8, 12, 14, 16, 19-22,
and 26); ten of fraud (2, 5, 7, 9, 11, 13, 15, 17-18, and 23), and five of
money had and received (4, 10, 24-25, and 27). Plaintiff alleges all causes of
action against all defendants. 
 
Generally, Plaintiff alleges that Quingzhou Zhu was an employee or
managing agent of JPMorgan Chase Bank at relevant times. The remaining individual
defendants acted as managing agents for one or more of the entity defendants.
Zhu induced Plaintiff to loan money to him or other defendants by
misrepresenting facts about the prospects for success of various ventures.
Plaintiff loaned and invested considerable funds, which were mismanaged and/or
not repaid.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole
complaint or to any of the causes of action in it.  (CCP § 430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only the legal
sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual allegations or the
plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations. 
(Picton v. Anderson Union High
Sch. Dist. (1996) 50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court must treat as true the complaint's
material factual allegations, but not contentions, deductions or conclusions of
fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The
complaint is to be construed liberally to determine whether a cause of action
has been stated.  (Id. at 733.
 
A.    Skybox Holdings 81’s
Demurrer to the FAC
 
Skybox demurs to all causes of action in the FAC based on uncertainty
and failure to state a claim.
 
1. All Except the Twenty-Second Count
 
Skybox’s name appears six times in the body of the FAC. Two merely
identify the parties and contain no other factual allegations. Two references appear
in the twenty-third count for fraud. The FAC fails to allege sufficient facts against
Skybox for any of these causes of action.  
 
The demurrer is sustained as to all these counts. 
 
2. Twenty-Second Count for Breach of Contract
 
The twenty-second count appears to contain the basics of a breach of contract
claim: (1) the contract, (2) the plaintiff’s performance, (3) defendant’s
breach, and (4) resulting damages. (Richman v. Hartley (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th
1182, 1186.) Plaintiff appears to allege that he and Skybox agreed he would
lend Skybox $100,000.00, Plaintiff supplied the funds, and Skybox did not pay him
back.
 
But Plaintiff does not allege that he entered into an agreement with Skybox.
 Plaintiff alleges that he loaned Defendant
Zhu $100,000.00, “via check to SKYBOX HOLDINGS 81”. (FAC, ¶ 144(a).) Plaintiff’s
boilerplate allegation that all his agreements are between “PLAINTIFF” and
“DEFENDANTS” (id., ¶ 144) is insufficient.
 
A copy of the contract apparently underlying the twenty-second count is
attached to the FAC as Exhibit K. That shows the contract was not between
Plaintiff and Skybox. It refers to Plaintiff as LENDER and Zhu as BORROWER. The
only reference to Skybox is as payee on the check made out for Zhu’s benefit. 
 
The demurrer is sustained. 
 
B.        Individual Defendants’
Demurrer to FAC
 
1. Defendants Sisley Wong and Xiaodan Zhang
 
Defendant Sisley Wong’s name appears once in the body of the FAC, in the
list of parties. The FAC states no claims against her. The demurrer is
sustained.
 
Defendant Xiaodan Zhang appears once outside the list of parties, where
Plaintiff alleges that on approximately June 6, 2021, she “told PLAINTIFF that
she was pregnant and she had put a lot of effort into LA FRUITY, INC.” This
single allegation is not linked to any cause of action, nor does it state a
claim for fraud. The demurrer is sustained.
 
2. Demurrers for Uncertainty
 
Plaintiff sued fifteen defendants based on at least ten written
agreements and more that may or may not be written. They are employment
contracts (FAC, Ex. I), shareholder agreements (id., Ex. J), and
promissory notes (id., Exs. H, K). Some of the defendants are borrowers
on promissory notes, while others are payees. (See id., Ex. E [defendant
Guo as borrower, defendant Sam Management as payee for check], Ex. K [defendant
Zhu and Skybox, same].) One promissory note names only defendant Zhu. (See id.,
Ex. B.) But Plaintiff asserts all causes of action against all Defendants. The
FAC makes no effort to differentiate which Defendants are liable on which
contracts, other than to conclude that all Defendants are liable for
everything.
 
The demurrer is sustained.
 
C.        JPMorgan Chase’s Demurrer
to FAC
 
JPMorgan Chase appears in two places in the FAC. At paragraphs 8 and 9,
Plaintiff alleges, without supporting facts, that Zhu acted as Chase’s employee
or agent. At paragraphs 18 and 19, Plaintiff alleges that two alleged
misrepresentations occurred at a Chase branch.
 
None of these allegations states any claim against JPMorgan Chase.
 
            The demurrer is
sustained.
 
D.        Motion to Strike
 
            The motion to strike is
denied as moot.