 Case Number:  23SMCV04584    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   SHANE SHAHAB SATEY,    Plaintiff, v.  TESLA MOTORS, INC. and DOES 1 through 10, inclusive,   Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV04584     Hearing Date:  May 22, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:   PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR      ATTORNEYS’ FEES, COSTS AND    EXPENSES  BACKGROUND This case arises from a dispute over an allegedly defective Tesla.  Plaintiff Shane Shahab Satey bought a new 2022 Tesla Model X from Defendant Tesla, Inc. for a total sales price of $150,889.40.  Plaintiff alleges that he delivered his Tesla seventeen (17) times to Tesla to repair multiple defects including the charging port, turning signal dashboard display, Bluetooth audio system and the doors.  (Compl. ¶ 16.)  Plaintiff claims Tesla was unable to service or repair the car to conform to the applicable express warranties after a reasonable number of attempts.  And Tesla failed to promptly replace the car or make restitution to Plaintiff.  (Id. ¶ 17.)   The operative complaint alleges four claims for (1) violation of subdivision (D) of Civil Code § 1793.2, (2) violation of subdivision (B) of Civil Code § 1793.2, (3) violation of subdivision (A)(3) of Civil Code § 1793.2, (4) breach of express warranty and (5) breach of the implied warranty of merchantability.   On August 9, 2023, before filing the Complaint, Plaintiff made a repurchase demand on Tesla.  (Ex. A to Katz Decl.; Ex. B1 to Tahsildoost Decl.)  On September 14, 2023, Tesla’s in house counsel contacted Plaintiff’s counsel indicating they received the letter and needed at least 30 days to evaluate the case.  (Id. ¶ 5.)  On September 28, 2024, Tesla offered to repurchase Plaintiff’s car and requested the financial documents necessary to calculate the numbers for repurchase.  (Id. ¶5.)   On the same date, Plaintiff rejected the repurchase offer, informing Tesla he had filed his lawsuit on September 27, 2023 and would be seeking a civil penalty on top of the repurchase.  Tesla offered to reimburse the cost of filing the suit and indicated a willingness to work with Plaintiff’s counsel to resolve the matter.  Plaintiff rejected the offer and indicated he would send a formal demand letter with the civil penalty.  Tesla made additional efforts to resolve the matter which included reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.  Those offers were rejected.  (Id. ¶6.)    Tesla was served with the lawsuit on October 2, 2023.  On November 2, 2023, Tesla served a Code Civ. Proc. §998 offer to compromise and filed a motion to compel arbitration as its responsive pleading.  The offer provided $149,350 total for Plaintiff and his lender, with Plaintiff to receive the remainder after any outstanding loan was paid off.  Tesla contends the amount did not include a civil penalty but did include an estimated amount for any incidental or consequential damages, such as registration.  (Id. ¶8.)   On November 10, 2023, Plaintiff’s counsel indicated he could not resolve the matter without a “more substantial offer” arguing for a civil penalty and demanding $175,000 for the repurchase.  Plaintiff’s argument and demand were rejected, and Plaintiff accepted the section 998 offer on November 30, 2023.  (Id. ¶9.) At the time Plaintiff accepted the section 998 offer, there was no discovery propounded, no depositions were noticed or taken, there was no legal vehicle inspection, and there was no motion work other than the motion to compel arbitration which was set for hearing in April 2024.  (Id. ¶12.)    On March 18, 2024, Tesla served a section 998 offer to settle fees and costs for $8,500.  This offer was rejected.  (Id. ¶10.)    This hearing is on Plaintiff’s motion for attorneys’ fees and costs.  The parties agreed to settle the matter by way of an offer under Code Civ. Proc. §998.  The parties agreed that Plaintiff’s fees, costs and expenses should be determined by noticed motion, and for purposes of the motion, Plaintiff is the prevailing party.  Plaintiff seeks $30,516.70 consisting of (1) $21,420.00 in attorneys’ fees, (2) $670.70 in costs and expenses, (3) a .3 multiplier enhancement on the attorneys’ fees (or $6,426.00) and (4) an additional $2,000 in fees for Plaintiff’s counsel to review Defendant’s Opposition, draft the reply and attend the hearing on this Motion.   LEGAL STANDARD Parties to litigation must generally bear their own attorney’s fees, unless they otherwise agree or a statute provides otherwise. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1021.)  Here, the Song-Beverly Act (“SBA”) provides for the award of attorneys’ fees to prevailing plaintiffs as follows:¿ If the buyer prevails in an action under this section, the buyer shall be allowed by the court to recover as part of the judgment a sum equal to the aggregate amount of costs and expenses, including attorney's fees based on actual time expended, determined by the court to have been reasonably incurred by the buyer in connection with the commencement and prosecution of such action.¿  (Civ. Code § 1794, subd. (d).)¿  California courts have consistently “rejected the motion that the fee award must be proportionate to the amount of damages recovered.”  (Niederer v. Ferreira (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1485, 1508 (1987).)   An attorneys’ fee award is to be based upon actual time expended rather than being tied to any percentage of the recovery.  (Drouin v. Fleetwood Enterprises (1985) 163 Cal.App.3d 486, 493.)  Because Plaintiff is suing under the SBA, the legislative policies are in favor of recovery of all attorney fees reasonably expended without limiting the fees to a proportion of the actual recovery.  (Graciano v. Robinson Ford Sales, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 140, 164.) The fee setting inquiry in California ordinarily begins with the “lodestar” method, i.e., the number of hours reasonably expended multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate.  Such an approach anchors the trial court’s analysis to an objective determination of the value of the attorney’s services, ensuring that the amount awarded is not arbitrary. (Id. at 48, n.23.)   The lodestar figure may then be adjusted, based on consideration of factors specific to the case, in order to fix the fee at the fair market value for the legal services provided.  (Serrano v. Priest¿(1977) 20 Cal.3d 25, 49.)¿¿¿The factors considered in determining the modification of the lodestar include the nature and difficulty of the litigation, the amount of money involved, the skill required and employed to handle the case, the attention given, the success or failure,¿and other circumstances in the case. (EnPalm, LLC v.¿Teitler¿Family Trust¿(2008) 162 Cal. App. 4th 770, 774 (emphasis in original).)   A negative modifier is appropriate when duplicative work has been performed. (Thayer v. Wells Fargo Bank,¿N.A.¿(2001) 92 Cal.App.4th 819.)  On the other hand, a positive multiplier may be applied to compensate the attorney for the prevailing party at a rate reflecting the risk of nonpayment in contingency cases.  (Ketchum v. Moses (2001) 24 Cal.4th 1122, 1138.)    “It is well established that the determination of what constitutes reasonable attorney fees is committed to the discretion of the trial court, whose decision cannot be reversed in the absence of an abuse of discretion.”¿ (Melnyk v. Robledo (1976) 64 Cal.App.3d 618, 623.)¿  REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE  Plaintiff requests judicial notice of (1) Plaintiff’s complaint filed in Shane Shahab Satey v. Tesla Motors, Inc., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 23SMCV04584, on September 27, 2023; (2) Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration filed in Shane Shahab Satey v. Tesla Motors, Inc., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 23SMCV04584, on November 2, 2023, (3) Docket in in Shane Shahab Satey v. Tesla Motors, Inc., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. 23SMCV04584, (4) Docket in Vanderpan v. Tesla Inc., Eastern District of California, E.D. Cal. – Case No. 2:22-cv-00333-TLN-CKD, and (5) Stipulation entered in Vanderpan v. Tesla Inc., Eastern District of California, E.D. Cal. – Case No. 2:22-cv-00333-TLN-CKD.  The Court grants the request pursuant to Cal. Evid. Code §§ 452(d) and 453.   DISCUSSION   Plaintiff is the prevailing party, and under the SBA, he is entitled to “attorneys’ fees based on actual time expended, determined by the court to have been reasonably incurred.”  (Civ. Code § 1794.) In calculating the attorneys’ fees, the Court starts with the lodestar which is the reasonable hourly rate multiplied by the reasonable hours expended.  Plaintiff’s counsel bills at an hourly rate of $525.  Tesla argues this rate is inflated, and its own counsel bills at an hourly rate of only $210.   There is no cause to reduce the hourly rate sought in this case.  Plaintiff’s counsel has 11.5 years of litigation experience, specializing in lemon law cases.  (Katz Decl. ¶27.)  The rate charged by Plaintiff’s counsel is reasonable for attorneys of similar experience, in the same area, dealing with the same subject matter. (See Goglin v. BMW of North America, LLC (2016) 4 Cal.App.5th 462, 473–74 (approving $625 per hour fee on lemon law action).)  This conclusion is corroborated by counsel’s evidence of other cases in which similar fee awards have been approved for his firm.  (Katz Decl. ¶ 30, Ex. F to Katz Decl.)  It is also confirmed by The Laffey Matrix which shows that for the Los Angeles and San Francisco markets and in June 2023 to the present, an attorney with 11.5 years experience charges approximately $878 per hour.  (Katz Decl. ¶29.)  Thus, Plaintiff has provided support for the hourly rate charged here.¿    Tesla contends the rate is unreasonable as compared to rates charged by its own attorneys.  The comparison is not reasonable.  Lemon law defense counsel, like insurance defense counsel, receive large amounts of business in bulk from a few very large clients.  As a result, the clients are able to demand heavily discounted rates.  Additionally, Tesla’s counsel’s fees are guaranteed, but Plaintiff’s Counsel’s fees are not.   Next, the Court looks at the time expended by counsel.  Tesla raises several objections to the time expended by Plaintiff’s counsel which are addressed in detail below.  Except for those issues raised in its opposition, the Court does not consider other arguments raised in Tesla’s Exhibit A to the declaration of its counsel as it essentially seeks to circumvent the page limits.   First, Tesla argues that counsel should not be allowed to recover for any time it expended after Tesla offered Plaintiff a full repurchase and stated a willingness to work with Plaintiff’s counsel to settle the matter.  The amount of time billed beyond the original repurchase offer is 22.80 hours at $525 per hour for $11,970.  The Court cannot conclude that the time expended after the repurchase offer was not reasonably incurred when Tesla’s repurchase offer was not reduced to an amount and may have included a mileage offset.  In other words, it is not clear from this record that the section 998 offer that Plaintiff accepted is equal to Tesla’s initial repurchase offer, and that time expended by counsel after the repurchase offer was unnecessarily incurred.   Second, Tesla argues that time billed to prepare written discovery was unnecessary.  Plaintiff’s counsel billed 3.3 hours at $525 per hour ($1,732.50) to begin to prepare a set of written discovery requests.  The discovery was never served.  Discovery requests in lemon law cases are usually not drafted from scratch and are based on templates that require little editing.  While the Court does not fault counsel for preparing discovery requests early, it does conclude that 3.3 hours is excessive to prepare essentially cut-and-paste requests.  The Court will reduce the hours by 2.3 hours (or $1,207.50).  Third, Tesla argues that Plaintiff’s counsel billed excessively for the basic initial review of the case prior to drafting the demand letter.  Counsel billed .4 to calculate a repurchase, 2.6 hours to review the repair orders, another 2 hours to prepare a summary of the repair orders, and 2.8 hours to research whether anyone else experienced the same issues for a total of 7.8 hours at $525 ($4,095).  Tesla points in comparison to defense counsel’s time (2 hours) to assess the same case, including a review of the repair orders, a repurchase calculation and consultation with Defendant regarding the case.  A summary of the repair orders would take an additional hour.  (Tashildoost Decl. ¶4.)  Tesla also argues that research regarding other vehicles is completely irrelevant.  The Court agrees with Tesla in part.  The car here was presented for service 17 times, and the service records pertaining to the car were voluminous.  The Court, however, finds compelling the fact that Tesla’s own counsel spent only 2 hours reviewing the same records.  Accordingly, the Court reduces the hours spent reviewing these records by 1.6 hours (or $840).  As to issues with other cars of the same make and model, they are highly relevant for a civil penalty request, and counsel’s time to research other customer complaints is reasonable.  (See¿Jensen v. BMW of North America, LLC¿(S.D. Cal. 2019) 328 F.R.D. 557, 562-63¿(“[I]nformation regarding whether the same defects were reported . . . in other cars of the same make, model, and year as Plaintiff's subject vehicle could conceivably be relevant to whether BMW acted reasonably in denying Plaintiff's warranty claim”).) Fourth, Tesla contends counsel’s vehicle inspection which took 1.7 hours at $525 per hour ($892.50) was unnecessary.  Tesla argues that at this point, Plaintiff already made a repurchase demand to Tesla, and therefore, there was no need for an inspection.  Moreover, Tesla claims the complaints made by Plaintiff were items that could be quickly confirmed, such as making and receiving a call from the car or opening the charging port door.  In response, Plaintiff contends that the time was not simply for inspection but took into account travel and a discussion with Plaintiff about the issues presented.  Given this explanation, the Court does not conclude the time billed for vehicle inspection was unreasonable. Fifth, Tesla argues that counsel billed 1.8 hours for a “template demand letter” that includes the summary of the repair history already drafted and billed for.  Tesla points out that the letter is identical to a demand letter in a different case, and the portion of the letter specific to Plaintiff’s case had already been drafted as part of preparing the summary of the repair history.  The Court agrees with Tesla, and will reduce the amount billed by .8  hours ($420). Sixth, Tesla argues that .4 hours billed at $525 per hour for reviewing an email from Tesla acknowledging receipt of the demand letters shows Plaintiff is engaged in bill padding.  Tesla argues that all but .1 should be cut, and based on this bill padding, there should be an across the board cut of at least 50% for all communications, although Tesla does not provide the Court with any estimate of the time billed for all communications.  Plaintiff argues that upon receipt of the communication from Tesla, counsel reviewed the demand sent to Tesla to determine the language in the demand requiring a response and the deadline that Tesla had to respond, all of which totaled .4 hours.  The Court reduces the amount billed for this specific task by .3 hours ($157.50), and declines Tesla’s invitation for an across-the-board 50% discount on time expended for all communications based on the insufficient record before it. Seventh, Tesla argues that .5 hours billed at $525 per hour for review of conformed copy of Complaint, summons and addendum previously filed and review of case assignment is excessive.  Tesla points to this as a further example of bill padding, requiring an across the board cut or negative multiplier.  Plaintiff argues that the time consisted of having to obtain the conformed copies from the court-filing system, reviewing those filings, determining the Court to which it was assigned and then running a docket to determine the case was filed.  The Court agrees with Tesla that these tasks should have taken no more than .1 hour.  Accordingly, the Court reduces the amount billed by .4 hours ($210).  Last, Tesla argues that the 2.1 hours billed on research regarding the motion to compel arbitration was premature and done only to “bill up” the file.  According to Tesla, Plaintiff’s response to the motion was not due until April 2024, and the section 998 offer had been served at that point.  The Court disagrees with Tesla.  Tesla cannot complain about research the counsel had to conduct to counter a motion that Tesla should have arguably never filed as Plaintiff opted out of the arbitration agreement.  Analysis of the motion was a critical step to advising Plaintiff how to proceed—especially here when Plaintiff was faced with a decision of accepting or rejecting a 998 offer.         The Court next considers Plaintiff’s request for a .3 multiplier.  The primary factors for awarding a multiplier are: (1) the novelty and difficulty of the litigation and questions involved,   (2) the skill displayed in presenting them, (3) the extent to which the nature of the litigation precluded other employment, and (4) the contingent nature of the fee award.  (Serrano v. Priest (1977) 20 Cal.3d 25, 49.)   As to the first factor, this is a simple lemon law case.  The sole issues are whether (1) the car suffered from a defect that substantially impaired its use, value or safety and (2) the defect was repaired within a reasonable number of attempts.  Damages are simple to ascertain as the statute provides the calculation.  As to the second factor, there was no special skill involved in litigating this simple case.  Plaintiff’s counsel rejected the repurchase offer to secure a civil penalty.  He failed to secure a civil penalty.  As to the third factor, counsel has not argued that the nature of the litigation precluded other employment.  As to the last factor, counsel argues that the multiplier is appropriate because he took on the case on a contingency fee basis.  But continency alone does not merit a multiplier, particularly where counsel has not shown he took on a significant risk in taking this case.  Presumably, as an experienced litigator, he knew that the case was likely to yield a positive result, and his fees as a prevailing party are mandated by statute.  (Weeks v. Baker & McKenzie (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 1128, 1174 (the availability of statutory fees weighs against a lodestar multiplier and contingency alone does not merit a multiplier).)    CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, the Court GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART Plaintiff’s motion for attorneys’ fees, costs and expenses.  The Court awards fees and costs in the amount of $20,205.70.    DATED: May 22, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 