 Case Number:  22SMCV02593    Hearing Date:   May 22, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205   OLIVER KABILKA, et al.,   Plaintiffs, v.  STARRY, INC., et al.,   Defendants.    Case No.:  22SMCV02593     Hearing Date:  May 22, 2024   ORDER RE:   DEFENDANTS AMERICAN TOWERS,    LLC AND GTP STRUCTURES I, LLC’S    DEMURRER TO FIRST AMENDED    COMPLAINT   BACKGROUND This case arises from the installation of antennas and transmission equipment in an apartment complex which purportedly caused Plaintiffs Oliver Kabilka and Phillip Kabilka to suffer headaches, dizziness, fatigue and difficulty falling or staying asleep.  (First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) ¶¶15-16.)     Plaintiffs are tenants in an apartment complex located at 2800 Neilson Way, Santa Monica, California.  (FAC ¶1.)  Plaintiff’s apartment building is part of a twin tower residential complex (2700 and 2800 Neilson Way).  The building at 2700 Neilson Way is commonly referred to as “North Tower” while the building at 2800 is commonly referred to as the “South Tower.”  (FAC ¶1.)     Defendants GTP and American Tower entered into a Rooftop Lease Agreement with the owner of the twin tower complex, and thereafter both defendants entered into a Rooftop License Agreement with Defendant Starry Inc., giving Starry Inc. a non-exclusive license and right to use certain space designated in the Rooftop Lease Agreement.  (FAC ¶10.)   American Towers contracted with Starry Inc. to install antennas and transmission equipment on the rooftop of the apartment building.  (FAC ¶11.)  GTP, American Towers and Starry Inc. are alleged to operate, service and/or maintain the equipment.  (FAC ¶13.)  Plaintiffs allege that the equipment emits radio frequency (RF) radiation as well as electro-magnetic field (EMF) radiation.  (FAC ¶14.)     Plaintiffs allege American Towers and GPT were negligent in (1) allowing and permitting Starry Inc. to install its equipment on the rooftop of the South Tower when the Rooftop Lease Agreement and Rooftop License Agreement designated and gave rights only to the North Tower, and (2) allowing Starry Inc. to operate its equipment without the required governmental permits and approvals and in violation of the Rooftop Lease Agreement and License Agreement. This hearing is on American Towers and GTP’s (Moving Defendants’) demurrer.  Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiffs’ sole claim for negligence fails because Plaintiffs have made no allegations that would support a finding that Moving Defendants owed any duty to Plaintiffs.     REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE  Moving Defendants request judicial notice of a rooftop lease agreement dated July 12, 2010 between Shores Barrington LLC and Global Tower Assets LLC.  The Court grants the request as the agreement is repeatedly referenced in the Complaint.  Where a plaintiff references a document in his or her complaint, but fails to attach a copy of that document to the complaint, the Court may take judicial notice of the document.¿ (See, e.g.,¿Ingram v. Flippo¿(1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1280, 1285 n.3¿(judicial notice appropriate where complaint referenced to, and¿excerpted quotes from, documents not attached as exhibits to the¿complaint);¿Ascherman v. Gen. Reinsurance Corp., 183 Cal.App.3d 307, 310-11 (1986)¿(judicial notice taken of reinsurance¿contract and release which was¿referenced in the complaint);¿Marina Tenants Ass'n v. Deauville Marina Dev. Co.¿(1986) 181 Cal.App.3d 122, 130¿(taking judicial notice of master lease that was quoted in complaint and formed the basis of the allegations in the complaint);¿Swiss Park, Inc. v. City of Duarte¿(1982) 136 Cal.App.3d 755, 758¿(court took judicial notice of text and map from redevelopment plan, parts of which were referenced in the complaint);¿Purcell v. Colonial Ins. Co. (1971) 20 Cal.App.3d 807, 810¿(taking judicial notice of agreement referenced in but not attached to the complaint).  MEET AND CONFER   Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41 requires that before the filing of a demurrer, the moving party “shall meet and confer in person or by telephone” with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a).)  The parties are to meet and confer at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (Code Civ. Proc § 430.41(a)(2).)  Thereafter, the moving party shall file and serve a declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (Code Civ. Proc. § 430.41(a)(3).)  Moving Defendants submit the Declaration of Amin Al-Sarraf which shows the parties met and conferred by telephone on April 8, 2024, more than five days before the demurrer was filed.  This satisfies the meet and confer requirements of § 430.41.   LEGAL STANDARD “[A] demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of the allegations in a complaint.” (Lewis v. Safeway, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 385, 388.)  A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable.  (See Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994 (in ruling on a demurrer, a court may not consider declarations, matters not subject to judicial notice, or documents not accepted for the truth of their contents).)  For purposes of ruling on a demurrer, all facts pleaded in a complaint are assumed to be true, but the reviewing court does not assume the truth of conclusions of law. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hosp. Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 967.)   Leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (See Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 349 (court shall not “sustain a demurrer without leave to amend if there is any reasonable possibility that the defect can be cured by amendment”); Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1037 (“A demurrer should not be sustained without leave to amend if the complaint, liberally construed, can state a cause of action under any theory or if there is a reasonable possibility the defect can be cured by amendment.”).)  The burden is on the complainant to show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) DISCUSSION Moving Defendants argue that Plaintiff has failed to allege the existence of a duty.  The Court agrees. To establish a cause of action for negligence, a plaintiff must allege facts showing a legal duty to use due care, breach of the duty, causation and damages.  (McIntyre v. Colonies-Pacific LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)  As to the first element, a plaintiff must allege facts “showing the existence of a duty of care.”  (Roy Supply Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank (1995) 39 Cal.App.4th 1051, 1076.)  A demurrer is appropriate when a complaint fails to show that a duty existed.  (McGettigan v. Bay Area Rapid Transit Dist. (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 1011, 1024 (affirming trial court’s sustaining of demurrer without leave to amend when plaintiff failed to show the existence of a duty owed by defendant).) Here, Plaintiff has not shown how American Towers owed them a duty.  Plaintiff alleges American Towers had “control of the rooftop area” pursuant to the Rooftop Lease Agreement, and as a result, American Towers owed them a duty.  (FAC ¶¶ 23, 24)  But American Towers was not a party to the Rooftop Lease Agreement.  (Ex. 1 to RJN).  The agreement was between Shores Barrington LLC and GTP.  (Id.)  And therefore, even if the contract could create a duty, no such duty was imposed on American Towers.    In any event, the mere act of entering into the Lease does not suffice to show Moving Defendants owed a duty to Plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs do not allege anything in the Lease that would give rise to a duty.  There is no allegation that the Lease, for example, created a special relationship between Moving Defendants and Plaintiffs, creating a duty on the part of Moving Defendants.  ¿Generally, “a¿special relationship arises by¿contract only if the contract itself imposes a¿duty” to protect. (McHenry v. Asylum Entertainment Delaware, LLC¿(2020) 46 Cal.App.5th 469, 485–486 [260 Cal. Rptr. 3d 51].)  Such a¿special relationship requires “a specific promise” in the¿contract to “provide specific protection.” (Bom v. Superior Court¿(2020) 44 Cal.App.5th 1, 16.)¿ Plaintiffs do not argue the Lease contained any specific promise to protect them. Plaintiffs argue that the Rooftop Lease Agreement gave Moving Defendants control of the rooftop area, and their control is sufficient to create a duty to protect owed to persons using the property.  But as discussed above, American Towers is not a party to the Rooftop Lease Agreement.  Further, even as to GTP and even under Plaintiffs’ logic, its control of the rooftop area creates a duty only to protect owed to persons using the rooftop.  Plaintiffs were not using the rooftop.  Rather, they allege that Starry Inc.’s use of the rooftop caused them injury. Alcaraz v. Vece (1997) 14 Cal.4th 1149, 1162, 1166 does not support Plaintiff’s position.  There, Plaintiff tenant sued defendant landlords for personal injuries suffered when he stepped into a water meter box located in the lawn in front of the rental property. The trial court granted summary judgment for the defendants because the meter box was not located on the defendants’ property, but within an adjacent strip of land owned by the city. The appellate court ruled that the trial court erred in granting summary judgment for defendants. On appeal, the court affirmed the decision of the appellate court, holding that a triable issue of fact existed as to whether the defendants exercised control over the strip of land owned by the city so as to give rise to a duty to protect or warn persons entering the land. The court found that it was undisputed that the defendants did not own the narrow strip of land on which the meter box was located.  However, evidence regarding the defendants’ maintenance of the lawn, and construction of a fence, subsequent to the incident, was highly relevant regarding whether the defendants exercised control over the strip of land owned by the city.  Unlike here, the plaintiff in Alcaraz was injured while on the property (the lawn) over which the defendants were exercising control. Likewise, Colonial v. Van & Storage, Inc. v. Superior Court (2022) 76 Cal.App.5th 487, 497 does not support Plaintiff’s position.  There, the trial court denied an employer’s motion for summary judgment on tort claims arising from an incident at the private residence of an employee who worked from home and was using the home for a business meeting when a family member of the employee assaulted a coworker and a business associate.  The Court of Appeal granted writ relief.  The court held that the employer had no duty to protect against third party criminal conduct in the employee’s home because the duty to provide a safe place to work (Lab. Code, § 6400, subd. (a)) did not apply to an offsite meeting place; unforeseeability counseled against imposing a duty of care (Civ. Code, § 1714, subd. (a)) regardless of commercial benefit; there was no special relationship absent evidence the employer could have prevented the harm, and the assault was outside the scope of the employer-employee relationship.  Claims for intentional infliction of emotional distress and vicarious liability also failed because the employer lacked knowledge of danger and the employee’s knowledge was a personal matter.  Nothing in Colonial suggests that a defendant’s control of the subject property creates a duty owed to a plaintiff who was not even on the defendant’s property.                  CONCLUSION For the foregoing reasons, the Court SUSTAINS Moving Defendants’ demurrer to the First Amended Complaint without leave to amend.  DATED:  May 22, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 