 Case Number:  22STCV28387    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  50  
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



CENTRAL
  ELK PROPERTIES, LLC, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
FI
  AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC., et
  al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


22STCV28387




Hearing Date:


May 14, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    2:00 p.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
MOTION FOR
  SUMMARY JUDGMENT OF DEFENDANTS FORMULA AUTOMOTIVE GROUP, INC., ARTHUR
  BAKHARYAN, AND GEORGE BAKHARYAN
 



 
Background
On August 31, 2022,
Plaintiff Central Elk Properties, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against
Defendants FI Automotive Group, Inc. (“FI Automotive Group”), Arthur
Bakharyan, aka Artur Bakharyan, and George Bakharyan, aka Gevork Bakharyan, aka
G. Bakharyan. 
On September 26, 2022,
Plaintiff filed an amendment to the Complaint naming Formula Automotive Group,
Inc. (“Formula Automotive Group”) in place of “Doe 1.” 
On April 13, 2023,
Plaintiff filed the operative Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). The SAC alleges
causes of action for (1) breach of lease, (2) conversion, (3) violation of Penal Code section 496, (4) breach of guaranty, and
(5) declaratory relief. 
On August 9, 2023, the
Court issued an Order sustaining FI Automotive Group, Arthur Bakharyan,
George Bakharyan, and Formula Automotive Group’s demurrer to the
second, third, and fifth causes of action of the SAC, without leave to amend.
The Court overruled the demurrer to the first and fourth causes of action of
the SAC. (See August 9, 2023 Order.) 
Formula Automotive Group, Arthur Bakharyan, and George Bakharyan (collectively,
“Defendants”) now move for an order granting summary judgment in
their favor as to the SAC. Plaintiff opposes. 
Request for Judicial Notice 
The
Court grants Defendants’ request for judicial notice as to Exhibits B and G.
The Court denies Defendants’ request for judicial notice as to Exhibits A, C,
D, E, F, and H. 
Evidentiary Objections 
The
Court rules on Defendants’ evidentiary objections as follows: 
Objection
No. 1: sustained 
Objection
No. 2: overruled 
Objection
No. 3: overruled 
Legal Standard
“[A] motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) 
The moving party bears the initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) If
the moving party carries this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party
to make a prima facie showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. (Ibid.) Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
Discussion
A.    Allegations of the SAC 
In the SAC, Plaintiff alleges that on July
1, 1992, Plaintiff’s predecessor-in-interest, Thomas C. Love, and defendant’s
predecessors-in-interest Harry O. Evans, La Rue Evans, and William Evans,
executed a lease (the “Ground Lease”) with respect to the premises located at
220-226 West Elk Avenue, Glendale, California 91204 (the “Premises”). (SAC, ¶
13.) The Ground Lease was for a term of twenty years, with two five-year
options, for a total lease term commencing on July 1, 1992 and ending on June
30, 2022. (SAC, ¶ 13.)   
“After the Ground Lease was entered into,
plaintiff Central Elk Properties, LLC acquired ownership of the Premises and
the Ground Lease was assigned to plaintiff.” (SAC, ¶ 17.) “The Ground Lease was
thereafter assigned by the tenant to Field Chasers, Inc….” (SAC, ¶ 18.) “Field
Chasers, Inc., then assigned the Ground Lease to defendant FI Automotive Group,
Inc., who agreed to assume the terms of the Ground Lease, and which assignment
was consented to by plaintiff.” (SAC, ¶ 19.) “[I]n order
to induce Plaintiff to consent to the assignment, assumption and consent,
Defendants Arthur Bakharyan and George Bakharyan hereinafter collectively
referred to as ‘guarantor’, executed for valuable consideration, in writing,
and delivered to Plaintiff, the Guaranty of Lease…whereby said guarantor agreed
to pay to unconditionally and 
irrevocably
guarantee the prompt payment by the lessee and the faithful and prompt
performance by lessee of each and every one of the terms, conditions and
covenants of the Lease.” (SAC, ¶ 45.) 
The Ground Lease provided for the original
tenant to construct at its own cost and expense a first-class Midas Muffler
Franchise Shop. (SAC, ¶ 14.) Plaintiff alleges that pursuant to paragraph 5.11
of the Ground Lease, title to all improvements to be constructed on the
Premises by the tenant shall automatically become Plaintiff’s property at the
expiration of the term of the Ground Lease. (SAC, ¶ 14.) 
FI Automotive Group vacated the Premises on
June 30, 2022. (SAC, ¶ 20.) Plaintiff alleges that the Ground Lease states at
paragraph 11.06 that “[o]n expiration or earlier termination of this lease,
Tenant shall surrender the Premises and all improvements in or on the Premises
to Landlord in as good, safe and clean condition as practicable, reasonable
wear and tear excepted.” (SAC, ¶ 21.) Plaintiff alleges that Defendants
breached the Ground Lease by removing seven hydraulic lifts from the Premises
before Defendants vacated the Premises. (SAC, ¶ 22.) Plaintiff alleges that
Defendants also breached the terms of the Ground Lease by “saw-cutting steel
rods, which remained imbedded in the ground at the Premises when it removed the
hydraulic lifts in breach of the Ground Lease…” (SAC, ¶ 25.)   
B.    Procedural Issues 
As an initial matter, in
the opposition to the instant motion, Plaintiff states that it “requests
that this Court, pursuant to Section 437c(h) of the
Code of Civil Procedure, either deny the Defendants’ Motion for Summary
Judgment, or, failing that, continue the hearing on the Motion because
essential evidence may exist but…cannot be presented at the hearing on said
Motion.” (Opp’n at p. 6:3-6.) 
 Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (h) provides
that “[i]f it appears from the affidavits submitted in opposition to a motion
for summary judgment or summary adjudication, or both, that facts essential to
justify opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the
court shall deny the motion, order a continuance to permit affidavits to be
obtained or discovery to be had, or make any other order as may be just. The
application to continue the motion to obtain necessary discovery may also be
made by ex parte motion at any time on or before the date the opposition
response to the motion is due.” In Dee v. Vintage
Petroleum, Inc. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 30, 34-35, the Court of Appeal noted as follows:
 
“[A] summary judgment is a drastic measure which deprives the losing party of trial on the merits. (Bahl v. Bank of America (2001) 89 Cal.App.4th
389, 395 [107 Cal. Rptr. 2d 270].) To mitigate summary judgment’s harshness, the statute’s drafters
included a provision making continuances--which are normally a matter within the broad discretion of trial courts--virtually mandated . . . . (Ibid.; Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (h).) Where the opposing party submits an
adequate affidavit showing that essential facts may exist but cannot be
presented timely, the court must either deny summary judgment or grant a
continuance. (Frazee v. Seely (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th
627, 633 [115 Cal. Rptr. 2d 780].).” (Internal quotations
omitted.) 
 “To make
the requisite good faith showing, an opposing party’s declaration must show (1)
the facts to be obtained are essential to opposing the motion, (2) there is
reason to believe such facts may exist, and (3) the reasons why
additional time is needed to obtain these facts.” 
(Chavez v. 24 Hour Fitness USA, Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 632, 643.)
 
Plaintiff contends that
here, “there are essential facts which may exist and which may only be
discovered by deposing the Bakharyans.” (Opp’n at p. 4:3-5.) In his supporting
declaration, Plaintiff’s counsel states that “[f]or several months,
Central Elk has sought to take the depositions of Arthur Bakharyan and George
Bakharyan in their individual capacities. Defendants’ counsel has s [sic] refused
to produce either individual for deposition. On March 5, 2024, Defendants’
counsel stated ‘it is our position that Bakharyan and Formula are one and the
same’.” (Fabian Decl., ¶ 3.) Plaintiff’s counsel attaches as “Exhibit B” to his
declaration an “email, dated March 5, 2024, from John Gerro to Ramin Azadegan.”
(Fabian Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B.) The email states, inter alia, that “[u]pon
your review of the attached Deposition, you will appreciate what we mentioned
to you in that it is our position that Bakharyan and Formula are one and the
same and the testimony is identical. It would be unfair to permit a ‘duplicate’
deposition (under any name) or a ‘second shot’ at Mr. Bakharyan just to derive
different and conflicting testimony.” (Ibid.)[1] 
Plaintiff’s counsel asserts that “[i]n order to determine whether or
not Arthur Bakharyand [sic] and/or George Bakharyan are now taking the position
that they are, or at least one of them is, the alter ego of Formula Automotive
Group, Inc., Central Elk must be given the opportunity to question each of them
in his individual capacity.” (Fabian Decl., ¶ 7.) Plaintiff’s counsel also
states that “[t]he instant action was filed in August 2022; the operative
Second Amended Complaint was not filed until April 2023, and not at issue until
August 2023[2].
Azadegan Law Group, Central Elk’s current attorneys of record, only substituted
into the case on October 5, 2023. Four months later, in February 2024, the
Defendants filed the instant Motion. It was only when Central Elk sought to
depose the Bakharyans in their individual capacity that Defendants’ counsel
made the ‘one and the same’ representation.” (Fabian Decl., ¶ 6.) 
 
Plaintiff asserts that “the sought evidence is
essential since a person cannot guarantee his own debt and any attempt to do so
is a ‘sham guarantee’ and void.” (Opp’n at p. 5:3-6.) More specifically, Plaintiff
asserts that “if the Bakharyans adopt the position of their counsel that
they are actually the alter egos of Formula Automotive Group, Inc., then the
‘Guaranty of Lease’ that they executed is a sham and void.” (Opp’n at p.
5:18-20.) 
Plaintiff cites to River Bank America v. Diller (1995)
38 Cal.App.4th 1400, 1406, where the Court of Appeal
noted that “[w]e dispose of two related
appeals in this opinion. In appeal No. A066477, River Bank America (River Bank)
appeals from a summary judgment granted in favor of defendants Sanford N. Diller and Helen P. Diller (individually and as trustees of the DNS
Trust) and Prometheus Development Company, Inc. (Prometheus Development). In
the underlying action, River Bank
sought to enforce guaranties the Dillers and Prometheus Development had
executed.” 
The River Bank America Court noted that “the Dillers also argued that their guaranties were
unenforceable ‘sham guaranties’ because River Bank actually looked to the guarantors as the primary
obligors, and structured the loan to avoid the protections of the
antideficiency legislation…[Civil Code] Section 2787 provides that ‘[a] surety or
guarantor is one who promises to answer for the debt . . . of another . . . .’ (Italics
added.) ‘That the names ‘on the dotted line’ are different on the
promissory note and trust deed, on the one hand, and on the guarantee
agreement, on the other hand, is not enough to qualify under section 2787, since ‘the supposed guarantors against
whom suit has been brought [could be] nothing more than principal obligors
under another name.’” (River Bank America v. Diller,
supra, 38 Cal.App.4th at p. 1420 [emphasis in original].) 
In the reply,
Defendants assert that “Landlord fails to show good cause for a
continuance.” (Reply at p. 2:18.) Defendants cite to, inter alia, Vulk v. State Farm General Ins. Co. (2021) 69 Cal.App.5th
243, 255, where the
Court of Appeal noted that “[i]t is well settled that the pleadings set the boundaries of
the issues to be resolved at summary judgment. Thus, a defendant moving for
summary judgment need address only the issues raised by the complaint; the
plaintiff cannot bring up new, unpleaded issues in his or her opposing
papers…To create a triable issue of
material fact, the opposition evidence must be directed to issues raised by the
pleadings…If the opposing party’s evidence would show some factual assertion,
legal theory, defense or claim not yet pleaded, that party should seek leave to
amend the pleadings before the hearing on the summary judgment motion…[T]he pleadings delimit the scope of the
issues to be determined and [t]he complaint measures the materiality of the
facts tendered in a defendant’s challenge to the plaintiff’s
cause of action.” (Internal quotations and citations omitted.) 
Defendants assert that here, “[t]he Opposition claims…that the
Guaranty may be ‘void’ and the lease ‘vitiated.’…The Opposition contradicts its
own SAC.” (Reply at p. 5:14-16.) Defendants assert that “[a]ssuming arguendo
that the guaranty is void, then the Landlord’s cause of action against the
Bakharyans for breach of guaranty necessarily fails,” and “[t]he voidness of
the essential documents would actually undermine, not bolster, the Landlord’s
case.” (Reply at p. 5:17-18; 5:20-21, emphasis omitted.) 
Indeed, Plaintiff argues that “the sought evidence is essential since
a person cannot guarantee his own debt and any attempt to do so is a ‘sham
guarantee’ and void.” (Opp’n at p. 5:3-5.) However, the SAC does not allege
that the subject “Guaranty of Lease” is a sham or is void. Plaintiff’s fourth
cause of action for breach of guaranty alleges that “in order to induce
Plaintiff to consent to the assignment, assumption and consent, Defendants
Arthur Bakharyan and George Bakharyan hereinafter collectively referred to as
‘guarantor’, executed for valuable consideration, in writing, and delivered to
Plaintiff, the Guaranty of Lease…whereby said guarantor agreed to pay to
unconditionally and irrevocably guarantee the prompt payment by the lessee and
the faithful and prompt performance by lessee of each and every one of the
terms, conditions and covenants of the Lease.” (SAC, ¶ 45.) Plaintiff
further alleges that “[t]he Guaranty of Lease…additionally provides that the
guarantor agrees without demand to pay and reimburse Plaintiff for all costs,
attorneys’ fees, and other expenses which Plaintiff expends or incurs in the
enforcement of the Guaranty of Lease. Plaintiff has retained the Law Offices of
Henry N. Jannol, A Professional Corporation, to represent Plaintiff herein.
Accordingly, Plaintiff is entitled to recover its reasonable attorneys fees
incurred herein in an amount according to proof at time of trial.” (SAC, ¶
47.)  
As discussed, “a defendant moving for summary judgment need address only the
issues raised by the complaint; the plaintiff cannot bring up new, unpleaded
issues in his or her opposing papers…To create a triable issue of material fact, the opposition
evidence must be directed to issues raised by the pleadings.” (Vulk v. State Farm
General Ins. Co., supra, 69 Cal.App.5th at p. 255 [internal quotations omitted].) 
In light of
the foregoing, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has shown that “facts essential to justify opposition may exist but cannot,
for reasons stated, be presented…” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (h).) Thus, the Court
denies Plaintiff’s request that the Court deny the motion or continue the
hearing on the motion pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h). 
C.    First and Fourth Causes of Action of the SAC 
In the motion, Defendants
assert that “Plaintiff’s causes of action for breach of lease and its
guaranty must fail because plaintiff cannot prove two necessary elements:
breach or damages. First, regarding breach, the undisputed lease terms
demonstrates [sic] that the tenant-defendants had legal title to the trade
fixtures removed during the term of the lease, and therefore,
plaintiff-landlord cannot show any breach of lease as a matter of law.” (Notice
of Mot. at p. 2:10-14.) 
In support of this assertion, Defendants appear to point to paragraph
5.11 of the alleged Ground Lease attached to the SAC. Plaintiff
attaches as Exhibit 1 to the SAC the subject Ground Lease. (SAC, ¶ 13, Ex. 1.)
The Court notes that the text that is legible in the first sentence of Section 5.11 of the Lease appears
to provide, “[t]itle to all improvements to be const…the Premises by Tenant
shall be owned by Tenant until expi…the term or earlier termination of this
lease.” (Ibid.) Thus, Section
5.11 of the Ground Lease attached to the SAC is not entirely legible. (SAC, ¶ 13, Ex. 1.) 
The
Court also notes that the SAC alleges that “Defendants breached
the terms of the Ground Lease by (a) removing seven (7) hydraulic lifts from
the Premises without the consent of Plaintiff, (b) damaging the Premises by
saw-cutting steel rods, which remained imbedded in the ground at the Premises
when it removed the hydraulic lifts in breach of the Ground Lease, and (c)
by failing to restore to the Premises the hydraulic lifts, which had become
part of the real property, at Defendant’s own cost and expense.” (SAC, ¶ 25,
emphasis added.) Defendants’ motion does not appear to address Plaintiff’s
allegation that Defendants also breached the terms of the subject Ground Lease
by “damaging the Premises by saw-cutting steel rods, which remained imbedded in
the ground at the Premises when it removed the hydraulic lifts in breach of the
Ground Lease…” (SAC, ¶ 25.) In addition, Defendants do not appear to address
Plaintiff’s allegation that the hydraulic lifts had “become part of the real
property…” (SAC, ¶ 25.) 
The Court notes that pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (a)(1), “[a] party may move for summary judgment in an action or proceeding
if it is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to
the action or proceeding.” Pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (p)(2), “[a]
defendant or cross-defendant has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action.” 
The Court does not find that
Defendants have met their initial burden of showing that the first and fourth
causes of action of the SAC fail because Plaintiff cannot establish the element
of breach. As discussed, Defendants do not address Plaintiff’s allegation that “Defendants
breached the terms of the Ground Lease by…(b) damaging the Premises by
saw-cutting steel rods, which remained imbedded in the ground at the Premises
when it removed the hydraulic lifts in breach of the Ground Lease,” or the
allegation that the hydraulic lifts had “become part of the real property…” (SAC,
¶ 25.)[3]  
            Lastly,
Defendants assert that “regarding damages, the undisputed facts and
plaintiff-landlord’s discovery responses show that plaintiff-landlord did not
sustain any damages, because the above-ground trade fixtures affixed by mere
nuts and bolts were replaced with newer, larger, and higher-quality trade
fixtures paid for by the new tenant—not by the plaintiff-landlord—who relet the
premises for its admitted fair rental value.” (Notice of Mot. at p.
2:15-19.)  
            Defendants
argue in the motion that “LANDLORD cannot show any evidence that it suffered
damages, because it did not pay to replace the lifts. It appears that the new
tenant rented the premises for full market value, and paid itself to replace
the lifts.” (Mot. at p. 6:22-24.) The Court notes that Defendants’ motion does
not cite any evidence in support of this assertion. (See Mot. at p.
6:22-27.) As noted by Plaintiff, the motion does not appear to contain any
citations to Defendants’ Separate Statement of Undisputed Facts. 
            The
Court notes that Defendants’ Undisputed Material Fact No. 20 states, “[t]he new
tenant installed new, high-capacity lifts and the LANDLORD did not directly pay
for them. (See Depo. Matloob, p. 86.).” To the extent this is the fact
Defendants are relying on, Defendants do not appear to have provided a copy of
any deposition transcript in connection with the moving papers. The Court notes
that Defendants’ Request for Judicial Notice references an “EXHIBIT ‘H’ -
Deposition of Nasser Matloob (to be separately lodged with the Court
concurrently with the filing of Defendants’ Reply In Support of the instant
Motion).” (Defendants’ RJN at p. 2:19-20.) The Court notes that “¿¿[t]he general
rule of motion practice…is that new evidence is not permitted with reply
papers.¿¿” (Jay v.
Mahaffey¿(2013) 218 Cal.App.4th 1522, 1537¿.) 
            The
Court also notes that in his declaration in support of the motion, Arthur
Bakharyan states that “[w]hen I inspected the premises during this litigation
pursuant to a demand for inspection of premises, I observed that the current
tenant was using all brand-new lifts with higher weight capacities (e.g. 10,000
lbs, 20,000 lbs and 30,000 lbs) than the lifts used in my business.” (Bakharyan
Decl., ¶ 21.) However, Defendants do not appear to provide evidence that “the
new tenant…paid itself to replace the lifts.” (Mot. at p. 6:23-24.) 
            Moreover,
Defendants’ argument pertaining to the element of damages also does not appear
to address Plaintiff’s allegation that “Defendants breached the terms of the
Ground Lease by…(b) damaging the Premises by saw-cutting steel rods, which
remained imbedded in the ground at the Premises when it removed he hydraulic
lifts in breach of the Ground Lease…” (SAC, ¶ 25.) 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Defendants have met their
initial burden of demonstrating that the first and fourth causes of action of
the SAC have no merit. 
            Conclusion            
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’
motion for summary judgment is denied.  
Plaintiff is ordered to
give notice of this ruling.  
 
DATED:  May 14, 2024                                 ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


