 Case Number:  23STCV18615    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



EFRAIN AQUINO,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DAWN DEE MOTEL AND
  APARTMENTS, a company doing business as COMFORT INN SANTA MONICA, et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV18615




Hearing Date:


May 14, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE:  
 
DEFENDANTS DAWN
  DEE MOTEL AND APARTMENTS’ AND LETICIA GONZALEZ’ MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
  AND STAY PROCEEDINGS



            
            Background
Plaintiff Efrain Aquino
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action on August 7, 2023 against Defendants Dawn Dee
Motel and Apartments, a company doing business as Comfort Inn Santa
Monica, and Leticia Gonzalez. 
The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) sexual battery, (2)
battery, (3) assault, 
(4)
gender violence, (5) discrimination, (6) harassment, (7) retaliation, (8)
failure to provide reasonable accommodation, (9) failure to engage in a
good-faith interactive process, (10) failure to prevent discrimination,
harassment, and retaliation, (11) declaratory judgment, (12) retaliation for
disclosing violations of law, (13) wrongful termination in violation of public
policy, 
(14)
violation of the Ralph Civil Rights Act, (15) violation of the Tom Bane Civil
Rights Act, (16) intentional infliction of emotional distress, and (17)
negligent supervision and retention. 
Dawn Dee Motel And Apartments d/b/a Comfort Inn Santa Monica and
Leticia Gonzales (jointly, “Defendants”) now move for an order compelling
Plaintiff to submit all of his claims to binding arbitration and dismissing
this entire action with prejudice. In the alternative, Defendants move for an
order staying all proceedings in this action pending completion of arbitration.
Plaintiff opposes. 
Evidentiary Objections 
The Court rules on Plaintiff’s evidentiary
objections as follows: 
Objection No. 1: overruled
Objection No. 2: overruled
Objection No. 3: sustained 
The Court rules on Defendants’ evidentiary
objections as follows: 
Objection No. 1: sustained. Defendants note
that “[t]here is no translation certification or attestation, or
identification of a translator.” (Defendants’ Evidentiary Objection No. 1.)
Defendants cite to Evidence Code
section 753, which provides in part that “[w]hen
the written characters in a writing offered in evidence are incapable of being
deciphered or understood directly, a translator who can decipher the characters
or understand the language shall be sworn to decipher or translate the writing.” ((Id., § 753, subd.
(a).) In light of the fact that the Court sustains Defendants’ Objection
No. 1, Defendants’ Objections Nos. 2-5 are moot. 
Legal Standard
In a motion to compel
arbitration, the moving party must prove by a preponderance of evidence the
existence of the arbitration agreement and that the dispute is covered by the
agreement. The burden then shifts to the resisting party to prove by a preponderance
of evidence a ground for denial (e.g.,
fraud, unconscionability, etc.). ((Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413-414.)  
Generally, on a petition
to compel arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either
(1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2) the right to compel
arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement;
or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or
create conflicting rulings on common issues. ((Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.2); (see Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.) 
“California has a strong
public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the
arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” ((Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California
(2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general rule that
arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an
arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the
asserted dispute.” ((Ibid. [internal
quotations omitted].) This is in accord with the
liberal federal policy favoring arbitration agreements under the Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”), which governs all agreements to arbitrate in contracts
“involving interstate commerce.” (9 U.S.C. section 2,
et seq.; (Higgins
v. Superior Court (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.) 
            Discussion
A.    Existence of Arbitration Agreement
In the Complaint,
Plaintiff alleges that he “was employed by Defendants from approximately
October 13, 2016, through May 31, 2022, as a maintenance employee, in Santa
Monica, California.” (Compl., ¶ 17.) 
Defendants submit the declaration of Tac Mahn, the Human Resource
Manager and Controller for Dawn Dee Motel and Apartments dba Comfort Inn Santa
Monica (“Dawn Dee”). (Mahn Decl., ¶ 2.) Tac Mahn’s declaration states, inter
alia, that “[a]ttached hereto as Exhibit A is a true and correct copy of
the ‘Employment Application’ in English which was signed by Plaintiff Efrain
Aquino and dated September 27, 2016. This signed agreement has been
continuously maintained as part of Mr. Aquino’s employee files in accordance
with Dawn Dee’s ordinary and routine practice.” (Mahn Decl., ¶ 3.) Defendants
note that the “Application for Employment” attached as Exhibit A to the Mahn
Declaration provides in part as follows: 
 
“I and the
Company agree to utilize binding individual arbitration as the sole and exclusive
means to resolve all disputes that may arise out of or be related in any way to
my application for employment and employment, including but not limited to the
termination of my employment and my compensation. I and the Company each
specifically waive and relinquish our respective rights to bring a claim
against the other in a court of law. Both I and the Company agree that any
claim, dispute, and/or controversy that I may have against the Company (or its
owners, directors, officers, managers, employees, or agents), or the Company
may have against me, shall be submitted to and determined exclusively by
binding arbitration under the Federal Arbitration Act (‘FAA’), in conformity
with the procedures of the California Arbitration Act (Cal.
Code Civ. Proc. sec 1280 et seq., including section
1283.05 and all of the Act’s other mandatory and permissive rights to
discovery). The FAA applies to this Agreement because the Company’s business
involves interstate commerce. Included within the scope of this Agreement are
all disputes, whether based on tort, contract, statute (including, but not
limited to, any claims of discrimination, harassment and/or retaliation,
whether they be based on the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, Title
VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, or any other state or federal
law or regulation), equitable law, or otherwise. The only exception to the
requirement of binding arbitration shall be for claims arising under the
National Labor Relations Act which are brought before the National Labor
Relations Board, claims for medical and disability benefits under the
California Workers’ Compensation Act, Employment Development Department claims,
or other claims that are not subject to arbitration under current law. However,
nothing herein shall prevent me from filing and pursuing proceedings before the
California Department of Fair Employment and Housing, or the United States
Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (although if I choose to pursue a claim
following the exhaustion of such administrative remedies, that claim would be
subject to the provisions of this Agreement). By this binding arbitration
provision, I acknowledge and agree that both the Company and I give up our
respective rights to trial by jury of any claim I or the Company may have
against the other.” (Mahn Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A, ¶ 4; Mot. at pp. 8:16-9:9)
Defendants assert that each of the causes of action of the Complaint
“falls within the scope of the enforceable mutual arbitration agreement entered
into by the parties.” (Mot. at p. 9:16-17.) 
Plaintiff
does
not appear to dispute that he signed the “Application
for Employment” attached as Exhibit A to the Mahn Declaration, or that
above-referenced arbitration provision covers the claims Plaintiff alleges in
the Complaint. Therefore, the Court finds that the burden now shifts to Plaintiff to
prove a ground for denial. 
 
B.   
Grounds to Deny Arbitration: Ending Forced Arbitration
of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021 
In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that “the Ending Forced
Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act…is clear that Plaintiff
cannot be forced to arbitrate his claims.” (Opp’n at p. 5:5-7.) Pursuant to 9 U.S.C.
section 402, subdivision (a) , “[n]otwithstanding
any other provision of this title, at the election of the person alleging
conduct constituting a sexual harassment dispute or sexual assault dispute, or
the named representative of a class or in a collective action alleging such
conduct, no predispute arbitration agreement or predispute joint-action waiver
shall be valid or enforceable with respect to a case which is filed under
Federal, Tribal, or State law and relates to the sexual assault dispute or the
sexual harassment dispute.” 
Pursuant to 9 U.S.C. section 401(3), “[t]he term ‘sexual assault
dispute’ means a dispute involving a nonconsensual sexual act or sexual
contact, as such terms are defined in section 2246
of title 18 [18 USCS § 2246] or similar applicable
Tribal or State law, including when the victim lacks capacity to consent.”
Pursuant to 9 U.S.C.
section 401(4), “[t]he
term ‘sexual harassment dispute’ means a dispute relating to conduct that is
alleged to constitute sexual harassment under applicable Federal, Tribal, or
State law.” 
            Plaintiff
notes that the Complaint here alleges, inter alia, that “[b]eginning in
or around 2017, GONZALEZ began touching Plaintiff inappropriately. She would
put her hand on his back and caress Plaintiff’s arm and shoulder. When
Plaintiff would object, GONZALEZ asked ‘Do you not like it?’” (Compl., ¶ 18.) 
Plaintiff further alleges that “[i]n or around July 2018, Plaintiff
injured himself at work, suffering from a disability affecting his major life
activities…When Defendants ultimately sent Plaintiff to a doctor, the doctor
advised Plaintiff that he needed to take two weeks of medical leave to treat
the injury. However, when the doctor came back into the room a few minutes
later, he told Plaintiff that Plaintiff needed to return to work the following
day because Defendants did not authorize the two weeks of medical leave.”
(Compl., ¶ 20.) “Plaintiff returned to work with restrictions, including but
not limited to a 10-pound lifting restriction.” (Compl., ¶ 21.) “In or around
January 2019, Plaintiff complained to Defendants that GONZALEZ was requiring
him to perform work that violated his restrictions, including requiring him to
lift heavy furniture. These violations continued.” (Compl., ¶ 22.) “GONZALEZ
continued assigning Plaintiff work that outside [sic] of the accommodations
needed due to his disability, including lifting heavy furniture. She told
Plaintiff that if he did not do it, she would get him fired.” (Compl., ¶ 27.)
Plaintiff further alleges that “[b]eginning in or around January 2019,
GONZALEZ’s inappropriate touching intensified. GONZALEZ began inappropriately
touching and slapping Plaintiff’s buttocks. GONZALEZ also asked Plaintiff what
kind of sexual positions he preferred and made other sexual innuendos.
Plaintiff objected to this conduct.” (Compl., ¶ 23.) Plaintiff alleges that
“[i]n or around May 2019, Plaintiff was assigned to repair a floor in a hotel
room alone. When Plaintiff entered the room, GONZALEZ was in the room already,
and as soon as Plaintiff entered, she turned off all of the lights. She rubbed
her body against Plaintiff, told Plaintiff that they are alone and to throw her
on the bed and have his way with her. Plaintiff was shaken, and left the room
to complain to Defendants. Defendants instructed Plaintiff to return to work.”
(Compl., ¶ 24.) “GONZALEZ’s inappropriate touching of Plaintiff and
inappropriate sexual comments and questions continued.” (Compl., ¶ 25.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “[i]n or around April 2020, Plaintiff told
Defendants that he did not want to work in the laundry room anymore because he
could no longer take the sexual harassment. However, the harassment continued.”
(Compl., ¶ 26.) Plaintiff alleges that he “complained to the Maintenance
Supervisor about GONZALEZ’s sexual harassment and innuendos. He told Plaintiff
to just get back to work.” (Compl., ¶ 29.) “In or around April 2021, Plaintiff
complained again to Defendants regarding the sexual harassment, and told them
that if it did not stop, he was going to have to report it to the police. After
this, GONZALEZ left Plaintiff alone for approximately three months.” (Compl., ¶
30.) 
            Plaintiff alleges that “[i]n or
around July 2021, GONZALEZ again began massaging, touching, and caressing
Plaintiff’s back, arm, and shoulder, telling him that she was sorry and asking
him to forgive her for her mistakes.” (Compl., ¶ 31.) “GONZALEZ continued to
frequently verbally sexually harass Plaintiff while he was working, including
asking him about his sexual preferences.” (Compl., ¶ 32.) “In or around August
2021, Plaintiff again complained to Defendants about the continued sexual
harassment. The response that Plaintiff received was that it’s a difficult
situation because GONZALEZ does not listen to anyone, not even the owners, and
pretty much does anything she wants.” (Compl., ¶ 33.) 
            Plaintiff alleges that “[i]n or
around January 2022, Plaintiff filed a police report against GONZALEZ for
sexual harassment.” (Compl., ¶ 34.) Plaintiff alleges that “[o]n or about March
28, 2022, Defendants terminated Plaintiff, telling him that they needed him to
be able to do his job without restrictions. Defendants terminated Plaintiff in
discrimination of his sex/gender and disabilities/perceived disabilities, and
in retaliation for his protected activities including but not limited to
requesting accommodations; complaining about discrimination, harassment, and
retaliation; and filing a police report.” (Compl., ¶ 35.)
            In the opposition to the instant
motion, Plaintiff asserts that “[f]ifteen of Plaintiff’s seventeen causes of
action are directly based on these allegations of sexual harassment and sexual
assault,” (Opp’n at p. 7:15-16) specifically, Plaintiff’s first cause of action
for sexual battery, second cause of action for battery, third cause of action
for assault, fourth cause of action for gender violence, fifth cause of action
for discrimination, sixth cause of action for harassment, seventh cause of
action for retaliation, tenth cause of action for failure to prevent
discrimination, harassment, and retaliation, eleventh cause of action for
declaratory judgment, twelfth cause of action for retaliation for disclosing
violations of law, thirteenth cause of action for wrongful termination in
violation of public policy, fourteenth cause of action for violation of the
Ralph Civil Rights Act, fifteenth cause of action for violation of the Tom Bane
Civil Rights Act, sixteenth cause of action for intentional infliction of
emotional distress, and seventeenth cause of action for negligent supervision
and retention. 
            In the motion, Defendants argue that
“Plaintiff’s Complaint only contains conclusory allegations and do [sic] not
set forth specific facts to state a plausible claim for relief. As such, the
[Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021]
does not bar arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims.” (Mot. at p. 18:22-24.) The
Court notes that it is unclear what specific claim and/or cause of action
Defendants assert is insufficiently pled. In addition, the Complaint contains numerous
factual allegations, as discussed above. Defendants do not cite any legal
authority to support the proposition that the Ending Forced Arbitration of
Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act does not apply here.
            Defendants also assert that “14 of
Plaintiff’s 17 claims (causes of action 2, 3, 5-17) do not even purport to
allege a claim of sexual harassment and EFAA is facially inapplicable to those
causes of action.” (Mot. at p. 18:26-28.) But a “claim of sexual harassment” is
not the applicable standard. As set forth above, 9 U.S.C. section 402, subdivision (a) provides
that “[n]otwithstanding any other
provision of this title, at the election of the person alleging conduct constituting
a sexual harassment dispute or sexual assault dispute…no predispute arbitration
agreement…shall be valid or enforceable with respect to a case which is
filed under Federal, Tribal, or State law and relates to the sexual assault
dispute or the sexual harassment dispute.” (Emphasis added.) As
discussed, “[t]he term ‘sexual assault dispute’ means
a dispute involving a nonconsensual sexual act or sexual contact, as such terms
are defined in section 2246 of title 18 [18 USCS § 2246] or similar applicable Tribal or State
law, including when the victim lacks capacity to consent,” and “[t]he term ‘sexual harassment dispute’
means a dispute relating to conduct that is alleged to constitute sexual
harassment under applicable Federal, Tribal, or State law.” ((Id., § 401(3)-(4).) 
            The
Court find that Plaintiff has the better argument that the first, second,
third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, tenth, eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth,
fourteenth, fifteenth, sixteenth, and seventeenth causes of action of the
Complaint “relate[] to the sexual assault dispute or
the sexual harassment dispute.” (9 U.S.C. section 402, subd.
(a).) Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiff has demonstrated that the
subject arbitration provision in the “Application for Employment” is not “valid or enforceable” with respect to these causes of
action. (Ibid.) 
            However, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has shown
that the eighth cause of action for failure to provide reasonable accommodation
or the ninth cause of action for failure to engage in a good-faith interactive
process “relate[] to the sexual assault
dispute or the sexual harassment dispute.” (9 U.S.C. section 402,
subd. (a).) Plaintiff acknowledges that “[t]he only two causes of
action that are not directly based on sexual harassment and sexual assault are
Plaintiff’s causes of action for failure to accommodate and failure to engage
in a good-faith interactive process.” (Opp’n at p. 7:20-23.) Plaintiff argues
that the eighth and ninth causes of action “cannot be parceled out and
litigated in a separate forum,” but does not cite any binding legal authority
in support of this assertion. (See Opp’n at p. 8:16-20.)
C.    Grounds to Deny
Arbitration: Unconscionability
Plaintiff also asserts
that “the purported agreement is both procedurally and substantively
unconscionable.” (Opp’n at p. 5:1-2.) In light of the foregoing, this argument
is only applicable to the remaining eighth and ninth causes of action of the
Complaint. 
An arbitration agreement
must be both procedurally and substantively unconscionable to be unenforceable.
((Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th
83, 114); (Mission
Viejo Emergency Medical Associates v. Beta Healthcare Group (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 1146, 1159
[unnecessary to decide whether insurance policy was adhesion contract and
procedurally unconscionable because it was not substantively unconscionable].) 
                          
i.         
Procedural Unconscionability
Procedural
unconscionability concerns the manner in which the contract was negotiated and
the parties’ circumstances at that time. It focuses on the factors of
oppression or surprise. ((Kinney v. United
Healthcare Servs. (1999) 70
Cal.App.4th 1322, 1329.) “Oppression generally takes the form
of a contract of adhesion, which, imposed and drafted by the party of superior
bargaining strength, relegates to the subscribing party only the opportunity to
adhere to the contract or reject it. In the case of arbitration agreements in
the employment context, the economic pressure exerted by employers on all but
the most sought-after employees may be particularly acute, for the arbitration
agreement stands between the employee and necessary employment, and few employees
are in a position to refuse a job because of an arbitration requirement.” ((Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 74, 84 [internal
quotations and citations omitted].) “Surprise involves the extent to which the supposedly
agreed-upon terms of the bargain are hidden in a prolix printed form drafted by
the party seeking to enforce the disputed terms.” ((A & M Produce Co. v. FMC Corp.
(1982) 135 Cal.App.3d 473, 486
[internal quotations omitted].) 
Plaintiff argues that “Exhibit A is
procedurally unconscionable to a high degree. Exhibit A was a condition of
employment. Plaintiff was never told he could negotiate the terms, or that he
could refuse to sign without losing his job, or opt out.” (Opp’n at p.
11:18-20.) Plaintiff appears to be relying on the declaration of Efrain Aquino
in support of this assertion. However, as set forth above, the Court sustains
Defendants’ evidentiary objection to the factual assertions in the Aquino
Declaration. (See Defendants’ Evidentiary Objection No. 1.) 
Plaintiff also asserts that “Exhibit A, as with all of the prior
versions, is drafted in a tiny font and dense, making it very difficult to
read…” (Opp’n at p. 11:21-22.) Plaintiff cites to Hasty v. American Automobile
Assn. etc. (2023) 98 Cal.App.5th 1041, 1056, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]urning to the element of surprise, ‘surprise’ occurs
where the arbitration agreement is ‘written in an extremely small font’ with
‘visually impenetrable’ paragraphs ‘filled with statutory references and legal
jargon.’” In the reply, Defendants counter that “the Arbitration
Agreement uses bold and underlined letters to highlight the Arbitration
Agreement.” (Reply at p. 5:4-5.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that
Plaintiff has demonstrated a low level of procedural unconscionability. 
                        
ii.         
Substantive Unconscionability
Plaintiff also asserts
that “the arbitration provisions are substantively unconscionable.” (Opp’n at
p. 12:25.) “Substantive unconscionability pertains to the fairness of an
agreement’s actual terms and to assessments of whether they are overly harsh or
one-sided. A contract term is not substantively unconscionable when it merely
gives one side a greater benefit; rather, the term must be so one-sided as to
shock the conscience.” (Carmona
v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc., supra, 226
Cal.App.4th at p. 85 [internal quotation and citation omitted].) 
Plaintiff asserts that “Exhibit A waives Plaintiff’s right to initiate
or participate in any representative action, including representative PAGA
claims…PAGA waivers are invalid as contrary to California’s public policy.”
(Opp’n at p. 13:3-5.) In support of this assertion, Plaintiff cites to
paragraph 5 of Exhibit A, which provides that “[a]ll claims brought under this
binding arbitration Agreement shall be brought in the individual capacity of
myself or the Company. This binding arbitration Agreement shall not be
construed to allow or permit the consolidation or joinder of other claims or
controversies involving any other employees or parties, or permit such claims
or controversies to proceed as a class action, collective action or any similar
representative action. No arbitrator shall have the authority under this
agreement to order any such class, collective or representative action. By
signing this agreement, I am agreeing to waive any substantive or procedural
rights that I may have to bring an action on a class, collective,
representative, or other similar basis.” (Mahn Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A, ¶ 5.) However,
the Court notes that paragraph 5 does not specifically mention the Private
Attorneys General Act (“PAGA”) or “representative PAGA claims.” (Opp’n at p.
13:4.) 
Lastly, Plaintiff asserts that “Exhibit A waives Plaintiff’s right to
file a claim with an administrative agency.” (Opp’n at p. 13:11.) However, the
Court is unable to locate any such provision in Exhibit A, and Plaintiff does
not cite any such provision. Moreover, as set forth above, paragraph 4 in
Exhibit A provides, inter alia, that “nothing herein shall prevent me
from filing and pursuing proceedings before the California Department of Fair
Employment and Housing, or the United States Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (although if I choose to pursue a claim following the exhaustion of
such administrative remedies, that claim would be subject to the provisions of
this Agreement).” (Mahn Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. A, ¶ 4.)
Based on the
foregoing, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has demonstrated that the subject
arbitration provision is substantively unconscionable. “The prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive
unconscionability] must both be
present in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a
contract or clause under the doctrine of unconscionability.” (Armendariz v. Foundation
Health Psychcare Services, Inc.,
supra, 24 Cal.4th at p. 114 [internal emphasis omitted].) Accordingly, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has met
his burden of demonstrating that the “Application for Employment”
is unenforceable due to
unconscionability. 
Conclusion 
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion to compel
arbitration is granted as to the eighth and ninth causes of action of the
Complaint. 
Plaintiff’s motion to compel arbitration is denied as to
the first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, tenth,
eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth, fourteenth, fifteenth, sixteenth, and
seventeenth causes of action of the Complaint. 
Plaintiff’s motion to “dismiss this
entire action with prejudice” is denied. (Mot. at p. 2:8.)
The action is stayed only as to the eighth and ninth causes of action
of the Complaint pending completion of arbitration of Plaintiff’s arbitrable claims. The Court notes that pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.4, “[i]f a court of competent jurisdiction,
whether in this State or not, has ordered arbitration of a controversy which is
an issue involved in an action or proceeding pending before a court of this
State, the court in which such action or proceeding is pending shall, upon
motion of a party to such action or proceeding, stay the action or proceeding
until an arbitration is had in accordance with the order to arbitrate or until
such earlier time as the court specifies…If the issue which is the controversy
subject to arbitration is severable, the stay may be with respect to that issue
only.”[1]

The Court sets an arbitration completion status conference
on May 14, 2025, at 10:00 a.m. in Dept. 50. The parties are ordered to file a
joint report regarding the status of the arbitration five court days prior to
the status conference, with a courtesy copy delivered directly to Department
50.¿¿ 
Defendants are ordered to provide
notice of this Order.¿ 
 
DATED:  May 14, 2024                                 
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


