  Case Number:  20STCV21370    Hearing Date:   May 14, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 
 







CONSUMER ADVOCACY GROUP, INC.,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
PEGASUS TRUCKING, LLC dba FALLAS
DISCOUNT STORES, et
  al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


20STCV21370




Hearing Date:


May 14, 2024




Hearing Time:


10:00 a.m.




[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE:
 
CROSS-DEFENDANT
  SASHA HANDBAGS, INC.’S MOTION TO DISMISS THE FIRST AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT OF
  PEGASUS TRUCKING, LLC




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



            
Background
On June 5, 2020,
Consumer Advocacy Group, Inc. filed this action against Pegasus Trucking, LLC
dba Fallas Discount Stores (“Pegasus”), alleging violations of Proposition
65, the Safe Drinking Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986. 
On March 12, 2021,
Pegasus filed a Cross-Complaint against a number of Cross-Defendants, including
Sacha Handbags, Inc. and Yoki Fashion, Inc.
Pegasus filed the
operative First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”) on September 9, 2021. The FACC
alleges causes of action for (1) breach of express warranty, (2) breach of
warranty of merchantability, (3) breach of warranty of fitness for a particular
purpose, (4) breach of contract to indemnify, (5) implied contractual
indemnity, (6) contribution, and (7) apportionment of fault. 
Cross-Defendant Sasha Handbags, Inc., erroneously sued and served as
Sacha Handbags, Inc. (herein “Sasha Handbags”) now moves “to dismiss the
operative [FACC] of Defendant and Cross-Complainant Pegasus Trucking LLC doing
business as Fallas Discount Stores (‘Pegasus’)…and/or to enter judgment in
favor of Cross-Defendant Sasha Handbags regarding Pegasus’s FACC.”
Cross-Defendant Yoki Fashion, Inc. (“Yoki”) joins in the motion. The motion is unopposed.

Discussion
On March 23, 2023, Michael B. Adreani and
Burton E. Falk of Roxborough, Pomerance, Nye & Adreani, LLP filed a motion
to be relieved as counsel for Pegasus. On April 25, 2023, the Court issued a
minute order in this action providing, inter alia, that “[t]he Motion to
Be Relieved as Counsel filed by MICHAEL ADREANI on 03/23/2023 is Granted.” 
In addition, on April 25, 2023, the Court
issued an Order on the motion to be relieved as counsel providing, inter
alia, as follows: 
 
“[Cross-Defendant
Orly Shoe Corp (“Orly”)] asserts
that “[a]ccordingly, Orly believes that if no new counsel appears on
behalf of Pegasus at the April 25, 2023 continued Case Management
Conference…and hearing on RPNA’s Motion to Withdraw, the Court can and should
dismiss Pegasus’s Cross-Complaint, and enter its default as to the Complaint of
Consumer Advocacy Group, Inc. (“CAG”) against Pegasus…” (Orly’s Statement of
Position at p. 2:15-18.) Orly contends that “[a]lternatively, if the Court is
concerned that Pegasus or any duly-appointed Trustee of its creditors be given
additional notice or time to engage new counsel, the Court could issue an Order
to Show Cause to Pegasus, indicating that if it does not appear by new counsel
of record by a certain date in the future (e.g. 30 to 45 days), then its
Cross-Complaint will be dismissed, and its Answer will be stricken and its
default entered as to CAG’s Complaint against Pegasus.” (Id.
at p. 3:1-5.) 
 
The Court declines to dismiss Pegasus’s First Amended
Cross-Complaint or enter Pegasus’s default as to CAG’s Complaint. The Court must give Pegasus
a reasonable time to locate counsel. The Court finds that 30 days is a
reasonable period of time. If Pegasus does not obtain counsel within the next
30 days, Orly (and/or any other party in the action) may file a regularly
noticed motion directed to the issue of lack of representation.” (April 25, 2023 Order at p. 2:4-18.) 
On April 27, 2023,
Roxborough, Pomerance, Nye & Adreani, LLP filed a notice of ruling
indicating that on April 25, 2023, the motion to be relieved as counsel was
granted. The proof of service attached to the notice of ruling indicates that the
notice was served on, inter alia, Pegasus. 
Sasha Handbags asserts that “[b]y the time of the hearing for this
Motion to Dismiss it will have been over one year that Pegasus has been without
properly-admitted counsel of record, which is more than reasonable time to
substitute in new counsel of record.” (Mot. at p. 6:6-8.) 
Sasha Handbags cites to CLD Construction, Inc. v.
City of San Ramon (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 1141, 1145, where the Court of Appeal noted that “under a long-standing common law rule of procedure, a
corporation, unlike a natural person, cannot represent itself before courts of
record in propria persona, nor can it represent itself through a corporate
officer, director or other employee who is not an attorney. It must be
represented by licensed counsel in proceedings before courts of record.” 
In CLD
Construction, the Court of Appeal found that “[r]elying on long-standing authority holding that a
complaint filed by a corporate party in propria persona is void, or a nullity,
the trial court granted a motion to strike the complaint of CLD Construction, Inc. (CLD) against
the City of San Ramon (City) for breach of contract without leave to amend.
We conclude respondent City’s objection
to the complaint filed by the self-represented corporation raises a curable
defect, and dismissal without leave to amend is not mandated. Accordingly, we
reverse the judgment of dismissal.” ((Id. at p.
1144.) The CLD Construction Court noted
that it is “appropriate and just to treat a corporation’s failure
to be represented by an attorney as a defect that may be corrected, on such
terms as are just in the sound discretion of the court.” ((Id. at p. 1149.) The Court of Appeal also found
that “the flexible rule we articulate in no way impairs the court’s
ability to assure that trained legal professionals participate in the
presentation of the corporation’s case. The rule’s pragmatic purpose of
protecting against the distractions and potentially harmful results that can
arise from the unlicensed practice of law will still be served because the
court retains authority to dismiss an action if an unrepresented corporation
does not obtain counsel within reasonable time.” ((Id.
at p. 1150.) 
As set forth
above, the Court’s April 25, 2023 Order provides that “[t]he Court must give Pegasus a reasonable time to locate counsel. The Court finds that 30 days is a
reasonable period of time. If Pegasus does not obtain counsel within the next
30 days, Orly (and/or any other party in the action) may file a regularly
noticed motion directed to the issue of lack of representation.” (April 23,
2023 Order at p. 2:15-18.) 
As noted by Sasha Handbags, it does not appear that Pegasus has obtained substitute
counsel. Accordingly, the Court does not find that Pegasus has shown that it
obtained counsel within a reasonable time. Moreover, Pegasus does not oppose
the instant motion to dismiss. As noted by Sasha Handbags, California Rules of Court, rule 8.54, subdivision (c) provides that “[a] failure to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to
the granting of the motion.” 
Based on the foregoing, the Court grants Sasha Handbags’s motion to
dismiss. 
Lastly, in Yoki’s joinder, Yoki asserts that “[b]ased on the facts,
legal analysis, and arguments therein, which are incorporated by reference,
Yoki further prays the First Amended Cross-Complaint of Pegasus Trucking, LLC
is dismissed against Yoki and judgment entered in Yoki’s favor as to the First
Amended Cross-Complaint.” (Joinder at p. 2:3-6.) The Court notes that Yoki did
not file any noticed motion to dismiss the FACC as to Yoki. In addition, Yoki’s
joinder was filed and served on May 1, 2024, less than sixteen court days
before the May 14, 2024 hearing on Sasha Handbags’s motion. Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b), “[u]nless otherwise ordered or specifically provided by law,
all moving and supporting papers shall be served and filed at least 16 court
days before the hearing.” Thus, Pegasus has not received the requisite
statutory notice of any purported motion by Yoki to dismiss the FACC. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court denies Yoki’s joinder to Sasha
Handbags’s motion. Yoki may file a regularly noticed motion directed to the issue of lack of representation. 
Conclusion
For the reasons set
forth above, the Court grants Sasha Handbags’s motion to dismiss Pegasus’s FACC. Yoki’s joinder to the motion is
denied. 
The Court
orders Sasha Handbags to file and serve a proposed judgment of
dismissal within 10 days of the date of this order.¿ 
The Court orders Sasha
Handbags to give notice of this order. 
 
 
DATED:  May 14, 2024                                 ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court