 Case Number:  20STCV02062    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  A 20STCV02062 Edwin
 Nolasco, by and through his Guardian ad Litem, Ana Lloyd v. Los Angeles
 Unified School District; Doe 1
Tuesday,
 October 17, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING PETITIONER’S MOTION TO SEAL RECORDS PERTAINING TO SECOND AMENDED
PETITION FOR APPROVAL OF COMPROMISE OF CLAIM
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
GRANTED
 SECOND AMENDED PETITION FOR COMPROMISE OF A DISPUTED CLAIM OF A PERSON WITH A
 DISABILITY                                                                                                                                                           
 
I.         
BACKGROUND
      Claimant,
Edwin Nolasco, (“Claimant”) by and through his Guardian ad Litem, Ana Lloyd,
settled his claims arising from multiple incidents of sexual assault
perpetrated by Defendant, Doe 1. Claimant was 21 years old at the time and attended
classes provided by Los Angeles Unified School District (“LAUSD”) at Banneker
Career and Transition Center (“Banneker”). (FAC, ¶ 2-3.  
II.         
MOTION TO SEAL
Petitioner proposes to file under
seal Exhibits 9 and 11 to the Second Amended Petition for Compromise of a
Disputed Claim of a Person with a Disability and supporting documents to
protect the Claimant’s financial privacy, identity, and ongoing psychological
and emotional injuries reflected in the records. 
Court records
are presumed to be open. (Cal. Rules of Court, 2.550 subd. (c).) The burden is on the
moving party to show compelling reasons for sealing records. (Mary R. v. B. & R. Corp. (1983) 149 Cal.App.3d 308,
317.) To support an order to seal
records, the Court must find that “(1) there is an overriding interest
supporting sealing records; (2) there is a substantial probability that the
interest will be prejudiced absent sealing; (3) the proposed sealing is narrowly
tailored to serve the overriding interest; and (4) there is no less restrictive
means of achieving the overriding interest." (McNair v. National Collegiate
Athletic Assn. (2015)
234 Cal.App.4th 25, 29;
Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 2.550 subd. (d).)
An agreement
not to disclose can constitute an “overriding interest” where there is specific
showing of serious injury. (McNair at 35–36 [“… specificity is essential.
[Citation.] Broad allegations of harm, bereft of specific examples or
articulated reasoning, are insufficient.’ [Citation.] We have been unable
to find any appellate court decision which construes Publicker to
permit sealing of court documents merely upon the agreement of the parties
without a specific showing of serious injury.”]. Once the moving party
identifies an overriding interest, the moving party must show “a substantial
probability that it will be prejudiced absent closure or sealing." (Universal City Studios, Inc. v.
Superior Court (2003)
110 Cal.App.4th 1273, 1283.)
Petitioner
has identified a compelling interest to support redacting the Second Amended
Petition and supporting documents to protect the Claimant’s private financial
and health information and identity. (City of Carmel-By-The-Sea v. Young (1970) 2 Cal.3d 259, 268 ["In any event we are
satisfied that the protection of one's personal financial affairs and those of
his (or her) spouse and children against compulsory public disclosure is an
aspect of the zone of privacy which is protected by the Fourth Amendment and
which also falls within that penumbra of constitutional rights into which the
government may not intrude absent a showing of compelling need and that the
intrusion is not overly broad."].) Publication of a person’s assets
"can be expected to bring unwanted solicitation from a variety of salesmen
and others, could well encourage harassment lawsuits or demands of like nature,
and could expose the public officer and family to various criminal elements in
our society." (Id. at 270.). 
Additionally,
courts have recognized an overriding interest in protecting minor victims of
sex crimes from further trauma and
embarrassment. (NBC Subsidiary (KNBC-TV), Inc. v.
Superior Court (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1178, 1223.)
Petitioner
has shown a substantial probability that Claimant’s privacy interests will be prejudiced
absent sealing the records. The proposed order is narrowly tailored to serve Claimant’s
privacy interests, and there is no less restrictive means of protecting that
interest. 
III.         
CONCLUSION
      Accordingly,
Petitioner’s motion to seal exhibits 9 and 11 of the Second Amended Petition is
GRANTED. 

 

 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
 GRANTING SECOND AMENDED PETITION FOR AN ORDER
 TO APPROVE COMPROMISE OF A DISPUTED CLAIM OF A PERSON WITH A DISABILITY 
The Second Amended
Petition filed on August 7, 2024, indicates that Petitioner proposes to
transfer a portion of the settlement funds to a special needs trust (“SNT”).
      A claimant’s settlement is valid if
approved by the court after a hearing.  (Prob. Code, §§3505, 3500.) Claimant Nolasco has suffered permanent injuries as a result of
the alleged attacks. The court has reviewed the amended petition and proposed
disbursement of the settlement and approves the petition. 
As Petitioner proposes to transfer
a portion of the settlement funds to a pooled special needs trust (“SNT”). The
terms of the SNT have been reviewed by the Probate Division and this Court as
required by local rule. Having considered the amended petition, the court makes
the following findings pursuant to Probate Code §3604 (b):
·       The SNT beneficiary has a disability which substantially impairs
the individual’s ability to provide for her own care or custody and constitutes
a substantial handicap;
·       The SNT beneficiary is likely to have special needs that will not
be met without the trust; 
·       The money to be paid to the trust does not exceed the amount that
appears reasonably necessary to meet the SNT beneficiary’s special needs.
      As
the proposed trustee of the trust is not a corporate fiduciary, a bond is
required. (California Rules of Court, Rule 7.903(c)(5), Probate Code section
2320.)  While Petitioner contends that
the pooled SNT trustee is already bonded, the court finds that the bond amount
is insufficient to cover all assets held by the pooled SNT. 
      The
bond is calculated based upon the assets to be funded into the trust,
anticipated annual income from investments and annuity, and an additional
amount required for the costs of any recovery on the bond. As such, the court orders
the proposed trustee to submit a $26,000 bond. 
      The
proposed order shall attach a copy of the trust instrument and joinder
agreement. The proposed order shall also include the following:
      Petitioner
is ordered to file Notice of Commencement of Proceedings for a Court Supervised
Trust on LASC Form PRO 044 in the Probate division of this court within 60 days.
      The
proposed trustee is ordered to submit a $26,000 bond.   
      All
state liens have been satisfied. 
      The
proposed trustee is ordered to file the first accounting in the probate matter
within one year after the Petition is approved. The court sets a due date of Click or tap here to enter
 text. (14 months) for the Trustee to file the first
accounting. 

      The court sets an OSC: re SNT Compliance
(funding, submission of the bond, and the filing of LASC Form PRO 044 to open a
trust supervision action in probate.) The hearing date is set for December
 23, 2024, at 8:45 a.m. in Department A of the Compton Courthouse.


