  Case Number:  21STCV13812    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  55 I.                       
Tentative Ruling
 
Defendant’s Motion for Attorney’s Fees is GRANTED.
 
II.                       
Background
 
Plaintiffs Mi Young Kim and Yoo S. Kim (“Plaintiffs”)
filed a Complaint against The Jing Wang (“Defendant”) related to alleged problems
in the property Plaintiff leased from Defendant. Defendant filed a demurrer and
Plaintiff failed to file an opposition. The Court therefore sustained the
demurrer with 20 days’ leave to amend on 8/15/23.
 
Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint. The Court
sustained Defendant’s demurrer to the FAC with leave to amend but Plaintiffs
never filed and served a further amended complaint. Thus, on March 27, 2024,
the Court dismissed the case with prejudice. 
 
On April 12, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion
for attorney’s fees. No opposition has been filed. 
 
III.                       
Analysis
 
“In any action on a contract, where the contract
specifically provides that attorney's fees and costs, which are incurred to
enforce that contract, shall be awarded either to one of the parties or to the
prevailing party, then the party who is determined to be the party prevailing
on the contract, whether he or she is the party specified in the contract or
not, shall be entitled to reasonable attorney's fees in addition to other
costs.” (Civ. Code §1717(a).) “Prevailing party” includes … a defendant as against
those plaintiffs who do not recover any relief against that defendant. (Code
Civ. Proc., §1032(a)(4).)
 
Defendant seeks attorney’s fees pursuant to the lease
at issue, which contains a provision for awarding attorney's fees to the
prevailing party (Section 41). The Court dismissed the Plaintiffs’ case with
prejudice on March 27, 2024, thereby establishing Defendant as the prevailing
party under Code of Civil Procedure §1032(a)(4). Section 41 states:
 
ln any action or proceeding arising out of this
agreement, the prevailing party between Landlord and Tenant shall be entitled
to reasonable attorney’s fees and costs from the non-prevailing Landlord or
Tenant except as provided in paragraph 35A.
 
Plaintiffs do not oppose this motion. The Court finds
that Defendant is the prevailing party and is entitled to attorney’s fees. 
 
“[T]he fee setting inquiry in California ordinarily
begins with the lodestar, i.e., the number of hours reasonably expended
multiplied by the reasonable hourly rate. California courts have consistently
held that a computation of time spent on a case and the reasonable value of
that time is fundamental to a determination of an appropriate attorneys’ fee
award.” (PLCM Grp. v. Drexler (2000) 22 Cal 4th 1084, 1095.) The
reasonable hourly rate is the prevailing rate for similar work in the
community. (Ibid.) “The lodestar figure may then be adjusted, based on
consideration of factors specific to the case, in order to fix the fee at the
fair market value for the legal services provided.” (Ibid.)  
 
After the lodestar is determined, the court in its
discretion may, but is not required to, apply a fee enhancement or multiplier.
 
Defendant claims he has incurred $10,625.50 in
attorney’s fees and $845.93 in costs to date, with an anticipated additional
$3,002.00 in attorney’s fees and $21.78 in costs related to this motion for
attorney’s fees. Defendant’s counsel John A. S. Baik provides a declaration to
support the request. In his declaration, Baik states that he has extensive
experience in civil litigation, particularly in the Los Angeles Superior Court,
Central District. His firm’s customary hourly billing rate is $450.00, but for
the current case, it was discounted to $395.00 per hour. He claims these rates
are competitive with other Los Angeles area firms handling similar matters
(Baik Decl. ¶3.) Baik attaches the lease at issue in this case as Exhibit 1 and
explains that Plaintiffs filed the action to compel Defendant to make repairs
to the leased property, alleging breach of the lease and other related torts.
He clarifies that Plaintiffs did not demand mediation before filing, so Section
35A of the lease, which precludes recovery of attorney’s fees without
mediation, does not apply to Defendant. (Baik Decl. ¶4.)
 
Baik includes the billing records as Exhibit 2,
documenting time spent on the case from March 2023 to present. As the custodian
of records, he attests to their accuracy, noting that these records are based
on contemporaneous time sheets detailing the date, task, and time expended.
(Baik Decl. ¶5.) He reports expending 26.9 hours and $845.93 in costs since
March 2023 on various motions, including the demurrer to the original complaint
and FAC, and the motion to dismiss. (Baik Decl. ¶6.) Baik anticipates an
additional 7.6 hours ($3,002.00) and $21.78 in costs for the motion for
attorney’s fees, detailing the expected tasks and associated hours. (Baik Decl.
¶7.) Thus, Defendant requests the court award $13,627.50 in attorney’s fees and
$867.49 in costs against the Plaintiffs, as detailed in his declaration and
accompanying exhibits.
 
First, the Court finds the rate to be reasonable and
well supported by Baik’s declaration. Second, the Court reviews the billing records
and also finds the hours spent to be reasonable. Plaintiffs do not oppose the
motion. The Court also notes that Plaintiffs are represented parties and
received adequate notice for this motion.
 
IV.                       
Conclusion



Defendant’s Motion for Attorney Fees is GRANTED.
Defendant may submit a proposed judgment including the fees and the costs set
forth in the unopposed memorandum of costs. Defendant must, however, serve the proposed
judgment on Plaintiffs. 