 Case Number:  22STCV03507    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



SPAZZ, INC., et al.,
  
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
STACEY SUMMERS, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV03507
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO COMPEL
  SECOND SESSION OF DEPOSITION 
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
July 2, 2024



 
On April 5, 2024, Defendant Gursey
| Schneider LLP (“Gursey”) took the deposition of Defendant Stacey Summers.  The deposition included seven hours and ten minutes
on the record.  At the conclusion of the deposition,
Gursey’s counsel indicated that they would seek additional time from the Court.  (Evans Decl., Ex. A at p. 320.)
On
June 4, 2024, Gursey filed a motion to compel a second session of Summers’s deposition.
Generally,
a deposition examination is limited to seven hours of total testimony, unless otherwise
ordered by the court.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.290, subd. (a).)  “The court shall allow
additional time, beyond any limits imposed by this section, if needed to fairly
examine the deponent.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.290, subd. (a).)  The plain meaning
of the statute “is that any court order in conflict with a seven-hour limit supersedes
the statutory seven-hour limit.  This makes
the seven-hour limit merely presumptive and applicable only if the court does not
order otherwise.  Thus, the language of subdivision
(a) indicates unambiguously that the court has the discretion to allow additional
time to examine a deponent beyond the seven-hour limit under subdivision (a).”  (Certainteed Corp. v. Superior Court (2014)
222 Cal.App.4th 1053, 1060.)  “[S]ection 2025.290
not only authorizes the court to allow additional time to depose a witness . . .
but requires it to do so unless the court, in its discretion, determines that the
deposition should be limited for another reason.  Subdivision (c) recognizes that the court has
the discretion to limit a deposition in the interests of justice.”  (Id. at p. 1062.)
Gursey
seeks leave to depose Summers for an additional four hours of testimony.  According to Gursey, the additional time is needed
because this case “involves fifteen (15) complex tax returns given the famous nature
of Plaintiffs, over 3,000 documents produced, and covers six (6) years in substance
and over twenty (20) years in total.”  (Motion
at p. 5.)
Summers
argues that Gursey has not shown good cause to take a subsequent deposition under
Code of Civil Procedure section 2025.610. 
(Opposition at p. 11.)  In reply, Gursey
does not directly address section 2025.610’s prohibition on subsequent depositions
without consent or court order.  Gursey does,
however, contend that it has good cause for additional deposition time because it
must “1) determine whether Defendant Summers was actually liable as alleged, 2)
look at her ability to pay some or all of a judgment as a possible joint tortfeasor,
and 3) examine Plaintiffs’ damages and comparative negligence.  To fully evaluate the case against it, Defendant
GURSEY | SCHNEIDER LLP needs to explore, for example, the pre-existing relationship
between Defendant SUMMERS and Plaintiffs, including her provision of services to
them before coming to GURSEY | SCHNEIDER LLP; how it is possible that Plaintiffs
had no idea their taxes were not filed for years, including Defendant SUMMERS’s
custom and practice in getting their tax returns completed; how Defendant SUMMERS
treated her other clients at Defendant GURSEY | SCHNEIDER LLP; whether Defendant
SUMMERS actually committed fraud and was negligent; and Plaintiffs’ financial condition
at the time each tax return came due considering she was also Plaintiffs’ business
manager and bookkeeper.”  (Reply at pp. 3-4.)
Gursey
offers no explanation about why it did not examine Summers about these issues during
the deposition, and the Court will not wade through 321 pages of testimony to determine
the scope of Gursey’s questioning and Summers’s testimony.
Based
on this record, Gursey has not shown that it requires additional time to fairly
examine the deponent.  (See Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2025.290, subd. (a).)
Accordingly,
the Motion to Compel Second Session of Deposition is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 2nd day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 