 Case Number:  23STCV03206    Hearing Date:   July 2, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



BLANCA PLACENCIA,
  et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
PAMA IV PROPERTIES,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV03206
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING DEFENDANT’S MOTION
  FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER; DENYING PLAINTIFFS’ MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION 
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
July 2, 2024



 
On February 14, 2023, Plaintiffs
filed this action against Defendant PAMA IV Properties LP.
On
April 24, 2024, Plaintiffs served a Notice of Deposition for Defendant’s person
most knowledgeable (“PMK”).  Plaintiffs also
served a Notice of Deposition for Mike Nijjar.
On
May 7, 2024, Plaintiffs served a Notice of Deposition for Swaranjit S. Nijjar.
On
May 9, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a motion to compel the deposition of Swaranjit “Mike”
Nijjar.  On May 16, 2024, Defendant filed
a motion for protective order.
If
a party to the action fails to appear for examination without making a proper objection,
the party noticing the deposition may move to compel the deponent’s attendance and
testimony.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 20205.450,
subd. (a).)
Upon
a showing of good cause, the Court may issue a protective order to protect a party
or deponent from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden
and expense.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420,
subd. (b).)  The protective order may include
directions that the deposition not be taken, be taken at a different time or place,
be taken on certain specified terms and conditions, be taken by written instead
of oral examination, or that the scope be limited to certain matters.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b).)  “[T]he burden is on the party seeking the protective
order to show good cause for whatever order is sought.”  (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000)
22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)
“[I]t
amounts to an abuse of discretion to withhold a protective order when a plaintiff
seeks to depose a corporate president, or corporate officer at the apex of the corporate
hierarchy, absent a reasonable indication of the officer’s personal knowledge of
the case and absent exhaustion of less intrusive discovery methods.”  (Liberty Mutual Ins. Co. v. Superior Court
(1992) 10 Cal.App.4th 1282, 1287 (Liberty Mutual).)  “Apex” depositions, “when conducted before less
intrusive discovery methods are exhausted, raise a tremendous potential for discovery
abuse and harassment.”  (Ibid.)
“[W]hen
a plaintiff seeks to depose a corporate president or other official at the highest
level of corporate management, and that official moves for a protective order to
prohibit the deposition, the trial court should first determine whether the plaintiff
has shown good cause that the official has unique or superior personal knowledge
of discoverable information.  If not, as will
presumably often be the case in the instance of a large national or international
corporation, the trial court should issue the protective order and first require
the plaintiff to obtain the necessary discovery through less-intrusive methods.”  (Id. at p. 1289.)  After the plaintiff exhausts other less-intrusive
discovery methods—such as interrogatories, depositions of lower employees, and PMK
depositions—the trial court may lift a protective order and allow the deposition.  (Ibid.)
Defendant
argues that Mr. Nijjar has not been identified as a fact witness in any discovery
response to date.  (PO Motion at p. 4; Castillon-Mendoza
PO Decl. ¶ 13.)  On August 14, 2017, Mr. Nijjar
signed the Property Management Agreement on behalf of Defendant, the owner.  (Christensen Compel Decl. ¶ 7 & Ex. D; Christensen
PO Decl. ¶ 6 & Ex. D.)  According to Defendant,
that is Mr. Nijjar’s sole connection to this case, and “there is no evidence he
interacted with any tenant, was actively involved in the management of the leased
premises or has any personal knowledge relating to the underlying facts of this
case.”  (PO Motion at pp. 4-5.)
Plaintiffs
argue that “Mike Nijjar is the only person that is an employee, officer, director,
partner, managing agent, etc. of the Defendant.”  (PO Opposition at p. 3.)  Based on the evidence presented, that does not
appear to be correct.  Defendant’s Certificate
of Limited Partnership (filed November 1, 2006) lists PAMA IV Properties Inc. as
the sole general partner of Defendant.  (Castillon-Mendoza
PO Decl. ¶ 12 & Ex. C; Christensen PO Decl. ¶ 7 & Ex. E.)  Defendant’s Amendment to Certificate of Limited
Partnership is signed by Mr. Nijjar as President of PAMA IV Properties Inc.  (Christensen Compel Decl. ¶ 9 & Ex. F; Christensen
PO Decl. ¶ 8 & Ex. F.)  PAMA IV Properties
Inc.’s most recent Statement of Information (filed on September 5, 2023) lists Michael
Brown as the CEO, CFO, and Secretary, with no additional officers.  (Castillon-Mendoza PO Decl. ¶ 12 & Ex. C.)  Accordingly, it appears that Defendant’s sole
general partner is PAMA IV Properties Inc., and that entity’s sole officer is Michael
Brown.  Additionally, Defendant has identified
and designated an agent to testify at deposition on its behalf.  (See (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.230.)  Defendant’s designated PMK is Sherri Wilson, the
Vice President/Director of Human Resources of Golden Management Inc., which is the
entity primarily responsible for managing the subject properties.  (Wilson PO Decl. ¶¶ 1, 3.)  Plaintiffs have not shown that Mr. Nijjar is the
only person who can testify for Defendant.
Plaintiffs
argue that “Defendant instead expects the Plaintiffs to depose a third-party in
place of the actual Defendant.”  (PO Opposition
at p. 3; see Compel Motion at p. 5 [“Plaintiffs are entitled to depose the actual
Defendant. . . . Plaintiffs are entitled to depose not only the third-party property
manager, but also the Defendant itself.”]; Compel Reply at pp. 1-2.)  Not so. 
Plaintiffs may still depose Defendant. 
Defendant is not refusing to be deposed, and it has designated an agent for
its PMK deposition.  (See Castillon-Mendoza
PO Decl. ¶¶ 7-8.)  This is entirely appropriate.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.230 [an entity defendant
“shall designate and produce at the deposition those of its . . . agents who are
most qualified to testify on its behalf . . .”].)
To
the extent that Plaintiffs do intend to depose Mr. Nijjar individually as an employee
of Defendant (Compel Reply at pp. 1-2), they have not established that he is, in
fact, an employee of Defendant and that he is anything other than the (possibly
former) President of non-party PAMA IV Properties Inc.  And because Mr. Nijjar is/was President of that
corporation, it would be an abuse of discretion to deny a protective order when
Plaintiffs have not shown that he has any personal knowledge of the case and that
less intrusive discovery methods are unavailable.  (Liberty Mutual, supra, 10 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1287.) 
The
motion for protective order is GRANTED.
The
motion to compel deposition is DENIED.
The
requests for sanctions are denied.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 2nd day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 