  Case Number:  23CHCV01483    Hearing Date:   March 13, 2024    Dept:  F51 
MARCH 12,
2024
 

MOTIONS TO COMPEL FURTHER
DISCOVERY RESPONSES

(Special
Interrogatories, Set One)
Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 23CHCV01483

 
Motions
filed: 11/17/23
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff
Compound Development LLC (“Plaintiff”)¿
RESPONDING
PARTIES: Defendants
Jay William Smith; and David M. Robinson (collectively, “Defendants”)
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: Orders
compelling further responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set
One, Nos. 1–10 (as to
Defendant David M. Robinson) and Nos. 1–12 (as to Defendant Jay William Smith),
within 10 calendar days. Plaintiff further requests monetary sanctions to be
imposed against each Defendant and their counsel in the amount of $1,560.00.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
unopposed motions are granted in part. Defendants to provide further
code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s first set of Special Interrogatories,
Interrogatory Nos. 1–4 and 6–10, (as to Defendant David M. Robinson) and Nos.
1–12 (as to Defendant Jay William Smith), within 30 days. The Court imposes
sanctions against each Defendant in the amount of $750.00.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a legal malpractice action wherein Plaintiff alleges
that on 12/7/22, it entered into a legal services agreement with Defendant Jay
William Smith to represent Plaintiff in Los Angeles Superior Court Case No.
19STCV08264. (Compl. ¶ 5.) Plaintiff alleges that all communications regarding
the retainer and legal representation were conducted between Plaintiff and
Defendant David M. Robinson, and the retainer fee was paid to Robinson’s
personal account. (Id. at ¶¶ 6–8.) Plaintiff alleges that neither
Defendant “notified Plaintiff in writing or verbally that ROBINSON is a
disbarred attorney from April 14, 2011 at any time.” (Id. at ¶ 9.)
 
Plaintiff further alleges that it learned that 11 Motions to
Compel Discovery had been filed against it in LASC Case No. 19STCV08264 due to
Defendants’ failure to respond to discovery requests on Plaintiff’s behalf. (Id.
at ¶¶ 12–14.) “Plaintiff has been harmed in amounts of $7,500.00 in legal fees
paid, plus interest at 7% per annum, plus another $30,000.00 in legal fees to
retain new counsel with the need to expedite file review in 19STCV08264 where
11 motions to compel are still on calendar that need to be opposed as well as
the discovery requests answered, plus punitive damages in the amount of
$100,000.00 for the purposeful and malicious act of concealing the fact that
the de facto individual performing 95% of the representation of Plaintiff,
ROBINSON, is a disbarred attorney whom is forbidden to be the sole client
contact, to give legal advice, and to accept legal fees directly into their own
personal account.” (Id. at ¶ 15.)
 
On 5/22/23, Plaintiff filed its complaint, alleging against
Defendants the following causes of action: (1) Fraud; (2) Violation of Business
& Professions Code § 17200; (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty; and (4) Negligent
Misrepresentation.
 
On 9/13/23, Plaintiff served its Special Interrogatories,
Set One, on Defendants. (Decl. of Brian W. Lee ¶ 2.) On 10/17/23, Defendants
served their responses thereto. (Id. at ¶ 4.)
 
On 11/17/23, Plaintiff filed the instant motions to compel further
responses to its Special Interrogatories, Set One, against each Defendant. No
oppositions have been filed to date.
 
ANALYSIS
 
“The
party to whom interrogatories have been propounded shall respond in writing
under oath separately to each interrogatory by any of the following: (1) An
answer containing the information sought to be discovered; (2) An exercise of
the party’s option to produce writings; or (3) An objection to the particular
interrogatory.” (Code Civ Proc. § 2030.210, subd. (a).) “Each answer in a
response to interrogatories shall be as complete and straightforward as the
information reasonably available to the responding party permits.” (Code Civ
Proc. § 2030.220.) “If an objection is made to an interrogatory or to a part of
an interrogatory, the specific ground for the objection shall be set forth
clearly in the response. If an objection is based on a claim of privilege, the
particular privilege invoked shall be clearly stated.” (Code Civ Proc. §
2030.240, subd. (b).)
 
A
propounding party may move for an order compelling further responses to
interrogatories if any of the following apply: “(1) An answer to a particular
interrogatory is evasive or incomplete; (2) An exercise of the option to
produce documents under Section 2030.230 is unwarranted or the required
specification of those documents is inadequate; or (3) An objection to an
interrogatory is without merit or too general.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.300,
subd. (a).)  
 
Here, Plaintiff seeks to
compel additional responses to its first set of Special Interrogatories,
specifically to interrogatory Nos. 1–10 (as to Defendant David M.
Robinson) and Nos. 1–12 (as to Defendant Jay William Smith), which generally
seek financial payments between the Defendants as they relate to Plaintiff. Plaintiff argues that the instant motions are warranted
because Defendants unjustifiably refused to respond to the interrogatories and
made meritless objections thereto. 
 
A.   
Meet and Confer 
 
A motion to compel further responses to interrogatories must
be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration stating “facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2030.300, subd. (b)(1); 2016.040.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff’s counsel declares that on 10/25/23, he sent
Defendants’ counsel a meet and confer letter raising the issues set forth in
the instant motions. (Lee Decl. ¶ 5.) On 10/30/23, counsel for the parties met and
conferred telephonically. (Id. at ¶ 6.) On 11/6/23, Defendants’ counsel
responded that Defendants would stand by the objections made in their discovery
responses. (Id. at ¶ 7.) Therefore, the Court finds that counsel has
satisfied the preliminary meet and confer requirements under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision (b)(2). 
 
B.    
Defendants’
Objections
 
Here, Plaintiff argues, in part, that Defendants’
objections to its first set of special interrogatories are without merit. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2030.300, subd. (a)(3).) Defendants objected to each interrogatory[1] at issue as follows: 
 
“Objection,
This SPROG is vague, ambiguous and unintelligible. Further, it seeks personal,
private financial information which is protected and exempt from Discovery on individual
Privacy considerations. The substance of the protected financial information
sought by this Discovery does not touch upon any relevant matter raised in the
pleadings and thus is irrelevant on that basis. This Discovery Request is not
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence and is thus
irrelevant on that basis as well. In light of the foregoing, this SPROG is
propounded for the improper purpose of harassing and vexing the responding
party and is calculated to require this Defendant to expend time, energy and
funds for no proper purpose or for any valid litigation objective. This SPROG
is thus burdensome, harassing and oppressive. Beyond registering these
objections, Defendant cannot respond further.”
(Ex. B to Pl’s Mot.)
 
a.                  
Scope/Relevance 
 
Discovery is relevant if it is admissible as evidence, or
“appears reasonable calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) “Discovery may relate to the claim or
defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action.” (Ibid.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff argues that Defendants’
objections to the subject interrogatories on the basis that they seek
irrelevant matter are meritless because each interrogatory “is narrowly
tailored to request proof that the legal fees that Plaintiff admittedly paid to
the disbarred former attorney David Robinson, the ‘case manager’ of Jay Smith,
actually got to the licensed attorney Jay Smith. If Jay Smith enabled David
Robinson to illegally practice law and receive earnings as an attorney through
the guise of Smith’s bar license, or if Robinson’s illegal receipt of client
funds never even got to the attorney that he was allegedly an assistant to, or
just a general evidencing of why the disbarred Robinson illegally collected
attorney fees on his Zelle bank account, it is proof of Defendants’ illegal
acts.” (Pl.’s Sep. Stmt.) 
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has made a
sufficient showing that the subject documents sought are discoverable as
relevant. Information about payments Plaintiff made directly to defendant
Robinson for the purposes of legal representation are relevant to Plaintiff’s
claims that Defendants defrauded Plaintiff and engaged in unfair business
practices in violation of Business and Professions Code section 17200 et seq.
(the “UCL”). Plaintiff’s interrogatories may reasonably lead to the discovery
of information as to Defendants’ handling of Plaintiff’s funds. “To the extent
that Defendants argue that defendant Robinson is not ‘a proper defendant’ in
this action, those issues are not before the Court in this proceeding.”
(12/20/23 Min. Order, pp. 4–5.)
 
Accordingly, the Court finds that Defendants’ relevance objections to
Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, are without merit.
 
b.                 
Financial Privacy
 
“The right to privacy under article I, section 1 of the California
Constitution ‘extends to one's confidential financial affairs.’ … This right
embraces confidential financial information in ‘whatever form it takes, whether
that form be tax returns, checks, statements, or other account information.’” (Overstock.com,
Inc. v. Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 471, 503.) When
the production of such private information is sought by way of discovery, the
burden falls on the party asserting a privacy interest to show that their
privacy interests are so serious that they outweigh the interests of the requesting
party’s prospective invasion. (Williams v. Superior Court (2017) 3
Cal.5th 531, 557.)  
 
Here, Plaintiff further argues that Defendant’s privacy objections
to the subject interrogatories are meritless. “There is no privacy
protection against explaining where Plaintiff’s money (Plaintiff was a
fiduciary client of Defendants) went to pay and it is highly relevant to a
showing of the illegal acts of Defendants at the heart of this litigation. In
fact, for privacy concerns, this request was narrowed to just Plaintiff’s legal
fee funds that he Zelled to the disbarred attorney’s account at Robinson’s
instruction to protect the privacy of Robinson and all other third parties.”
(Pl.’s Sep. Stmt.)
 
The
Court notes that Defendants have failed to oppose the instant motions, and therefore
have not made any showing that their privacy
interests are so serious that they outweigh the interests of Plaintiff’s prospective
invasion thereinto. (Williams, 3 Cal.5th at 557.) Based on the
foregoing, the Court finds that Defendants’ privacy objections to Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatories, Set One, are without merit.
 
 
As
set forth above, Defendants’ objections to the subject interrogatories are
stricken/overruled, therefore the Court orders Defendants to provide further
code-compliant responses to the subject interrogatories within 30 days.
 
C.   
Sanctions 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction … against any
party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to
compel further response to a demand, unless it finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd.
(h).) 
 
Here, Plaintiff requests sanctions in the total amount of $1,560.00
to be imposed on each Defendant and its counsel. This amount includes: (1) 2
hours of Plaintiff’s attorney’s time working on this motion, at his hourly
billing rate of $500.00 per hour; (2) an anticipated 1 hour preparing for and
attending the instant hearing; and (3) a $60.00 filing fee. (Lee Decl. ¶¶ 8–9.)
 
In granting the instant motion, the Court finds it
reasonable to award Plaintiff sanctions against each Defendant in the amount of
$750.00.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The unopposed motions are granted in part. Defendants to
provide further code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s first set of Special
Interrogatories, Interrogatory Nos. 1–4 and 6–10, (as to Defendant David M.
Robinson) and Nos. 1–12 (as to Defendant Jay William Smith), within 30 days.
The Court imposes sanctions against each Defendant in the amount of $750.00.


