 Case Number:  24STCV11990    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



NICOLLE DESANTO, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
STEVEN A. SIMONS, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 24STCV11990
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO COMPEL
  ARBITRATION
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
August 1, 2024



 
On June 30, 2023, Plaintiff Nicolle DeSanto filed a petition
for arbitration of fee dispute with the Los Angeles County Bar Association against
Defendants Steven A. Simons, Law Office of Steven A. Simons, Daryoosh Khashayar,
and Khashayar Law Group.  (Hartman Decl. ¶
4.)  All parties agreed to schedule the Arbitration
trial for May 16 and 17, 2024.  (Hartman Decl.
¶ 7.)  On May 10 and 13, 2024, Defendants
provided their briefs and exhibits for the arbitration trial, but Plaintiff did
not provide any.  (Hartman Decl. ¶¶ 8-9.)
On May 13, 2024, Plaintiff demanded to
withdraw her arbitration petition and receive a full refund of her fees.  (Hartman Decl. ¶ 10.)  The arbitrator closed the file the next day.  (Hartman Decl. ¶ 14.)
Also on May
13, 2024, Plaintiff filed this action against Defendants for declaratory relief
establishing how to allocate $1,324,000 held in an IOLTA attorney-client trust account.
On
May 22, 2024, Daryoosh Khashayar and Khashayar Law Group filed a motion to compel
arbitration.  The next day, Steven A. Simons
and Law Office of Steven A. Simons filed a notice of joinder.
On
June 13, 2024, Plaintiff filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”) alleging (1) declaratory
relief, (2) violation of the Los Angeles Civil and Human Rights Ordinance, (3) violation
of Civil Code section 51.9 for sexual harassment, (4) violation of Civil Code section
52(a), and (5) breach of fiduciary duty.
Defendants’
requests for judicial notice are granted. 
Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections are overruled.
DISCUSSION
When seeking to compel arbitration
of a plaintiff’s claims, the defendant must allege the existence of an agreement
to arbitrate.  (Condee v. Longwood Management
Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.) 
The burden then shifts to the plaintiff to prove the falsity of the agreement.  (Ibid.)  After the Court determines that an agreement to
arbitrate exists, it then considers objections to its enforceability.  (Ibid.)
The Court must grant a petition
to compel arbitration unless the defendant has waived the right to compel arbitration
or if there are grounds to revoke the arbitration agreement.  (Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)  Under California law and the Federal Arbitration
Act (“FAA”), an arbitration agreement may be invalid based upon grounds applicable
to any contract, including unconscionability, fraud, duress, and public policy.  (Sanchez v. Western Pizza Enterprises, Inc.
(2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 154, 165-166.)
A.        Defendants Have Shown The Existence of
An Arbitration Agreement.
The
parties entered into a contingency fee agreement on January 9, 2023.  (Khashayar Decl. ¶¶ 6, 12.)  This agreement contains a clause establishing
binding arbitration for “[a]ny dispute or controversy arising from or in connection
with this Agreement or in regard to the services rendered, including legal malpractice.”  (Khashayar Decl. ¶ 7 & Ex. 1 [“Arbitration
Agreement”].)
Defendants
have satisfied their burden of showing the existence of an agreement to arbitrate.
B.        The Arbitration Agreement Is Not Invalid
Under the EFAA.
Plaintiff
argues that the federal Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment
Act of 2021 (“EFAA”) invalidates the Arbitration Agreement.  (Opposition at p. 2.)  Under the EFAA, no predispute arbitration agreement
is valid or enforceable with respect to a case that relates to a sexual assault
dispute or a sexual harassment dispute.  
(9 U.S.C.A. § 402(a).)  “The term ‘sexual
harassment dispute’ means a dispute relating to conduct that is alleged to constitute
sexual harassment under applicable Federal, Tribal, or State law.”  (9 U.S.C.A. § 401(4).)
Plaintiff
argues that “Defendants’ motion did not take issue with the allegations in Plaintiff’s
complaint or first amended complaint.”  (Opposition
at p. 8.)  Therefore, “[i]f Defendants were
to offer in their reply a colorable argument on whether Plaintiff’s factual allegations
suffice to constitute a cause of action for sexual harassment, that issue is not
properly before the court in this motion to compel arbitration.”  (Ibid.)
Defendants’
motion could not address this issue in the first instance because when the motion
was filed on May 22, 2024, the operative complaint was the initial complaint for
declaratory relief only.  The FAC containing
the sexual harassment allegations was not filed until June 13, 2024.  Defendants’ reply briefs were their first opportunity
to address Plaintiff’s newly added causes of action and the EFAA.
According
to Plaintiff, “The FAC’s allegations form a sexual harassment dispute, including
FAC ¶¶ 18, 40, 47, and the Third Cause of Action regards a sexual harassment dispute.  (FAC ¶¶ 25-34.)”  (Opposition at p. 2.)  Plaintiff contends that “each of Plaintiff’s causes
of action are intertwined with a sexual harassment dispute and will require overlapping
proof and factual presentations.”  (Id.
at p. 4.)
The
first cause of action involves only a dispute over division of funds held in an
IOLTA trust account.  Plaintiff alleges that
she is not liable for the contingency fee because Defendants refused to conform
their acts with Plaintiff’s demands for her expressed goals, billed fewer than 39
hours, did not obtain a valid settlement, and abandoned Plaintiff so that she had
to retain other counsel and incur additional attorney fees.  (FAC ¶ 14.) 
Nothing in these allegations relate to sexual harassment.
The
second cause of action alleges that Defendants violated section 51.03 of the City
of Los Angeles Municipal Code (part of the “Los Angeles Civil and Human Rights Ordinance”)
by discriminating against Plaintiff in commerce because of her sex, race, religion,
ethnicity, gender, color, disability, or medical condition.  (FAC ¶¶ 18, 20.)  Plaintiff’s factually deficient allegations include
denial of full and equal accommodations, advantages, facilities, privileges, or
services; speaking/yelling at Plaintiff in an offensive, disparaging, and harmful
manner; forcing Plaintiff into activities that created undue stress and harm to
her; ignoring or disregarding Plaintiff’s emails; ceasing work on Plaintiff’s case;
refusing Plaintiff’s requests seeking all the emails and text messages; refusing
to comply with Plaintiff’s goal of a jury trial; and demanding that Plaintiff engage
in lengthy and stressful activities without breaks.  Nothing in these allegations relate to sexual
harassment, aside from a conclusory allegation of discrimination “because of her
sex.”
The
third cause of action alleges that “Defendant Khashayar engaged in verbal and other
conduct of a hostile nature based on Plaintiff’s gender (including, but not limited
to, sexual harassment)” through the same conduct alleged in the second cause of
action.  Nothing in these allegations relate
to sexual harassment, aside from a conclusory allegation of “sexual harassment.”
The
fourth cause of action alleges violation of Civil Code section 52 “(including, but
not limited to, sexual harassment)” through the same conduct alleged in the second
and third causes of action.  Nothing in these
allegations relate to sexual harassment, aside from a conclusory allegation of “sexual
harassment.”
The
fifth cause of action alleges breach of fiduciary duty based on some of the same
alleged conduct, as well as alleging that Defendants had a fiduciary duty to “protest[]
against any other defendant who is sexual harassing the Plaintiff or lying or making
false statements on the law.”  (FAC ¶ 47.)
“The
EFAA does not apply in the absence of a plausible sexual harassment claim.”  (Johannessen v. JUUL Labs, Inc. (N.D. Cal.,
June 24, 2024, No. 3:23-CV-03681-JD) 2024 WL 3173286, at *4.)  Accordingly, Plaintiff must plausibly allege sexual
harassment as contemplated by the Fair Employment and Housing Act.  (Ibid.)  Plaintiff’s cursory references to “sexual harassment”
do not include facts to plausibly plead any sexual harassment under FEHA, and the
alleged conduct does not include any severe and pervasive conduct based on sex.
The
Congressional Record also shows that the intent of the EFAA was not to exempt unrelated
claims from arbitration:  “If lawyers try
to game the system, they are acting in bad faith. . . . What we are not going to
do is take unrelated claims out of the arbitration contract.  So, if you have got an hour and wage dispute with
the employer, you make a sexual harassment, sexual assault claim, the hour and wage
dispute stays under arbitration unless it is related.  That is the goal.”  (Khashayar RJN, Ex. C.)  Plaintiff’s late-stage withdrawal from arbitration
(arbitration that she initiated) and amendment to her complaint in this action suggest
the kind of gamesmanship that the Senate intended to prohibit.  Plaintiff amended her complaint to add factually
devoid “sexual harassment” allegations to an otherwise straightforward fee dispute
only after Defendants filed their motion to compel arbitration.
The
Court concludes that the EFAA does not apply to Plaintiff’s FAC.
C.        The MFAA Does Not Prohibit Arbitration
Here.
Plaintiff
argues that the Mandatory Fee Arbitration Act (“MFAA”) prohibits binding and mandatory
arbitration with the San Diego County Bar Association.  (Opposition at pp. 5-6.)
The
parties agreed to arbitrate “[a]ny dispute or controversy arising from or in connection
with this [contingency fee] Agreement or in regard to the services rendered, including
legal malpractice,” and fee disputes “shall be governed by California mandatory
arbitration rules pursuant to Business and Professions Code section 6200, et seq.”  (See Arbitration Agreement.)  According to Plaintiff, arbitration under that
section “shall be voluntary for a client and shall be mandatory for an attorney
if commenced by a client,” so therefore “a client cannot be forced under the MFAA
to arbitrate a dispute concerning legal fees.” 
(Opposition at p. 5.)  Plaintiff omits
crucial language from the statute.  Arbitration
is voluntary for a client “[u]nless the client has agreed in writing to arbitration
under this article of all disputes concerning fees, costs, or both.”  (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 6200, subd. (c).)
With
respect to Plaintiff’s other causes of action, Plaintiff argues that “the MFAA does
not permit a Bar Association to arbitrate any claims other than disputed legal fees
and costs.”  (Opposition at p. 6; see Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 6200, subd. (b)(2).) 
Defendants contend that “the entire action is based on a dispute of fees,
as can be seen from the original complaint and the arbitration action that were
originally filed and failed to include Plaintiff’s additional meritless causes of
action.”  (Khashayar Reply at p. 5.)
Here,
the parties have a written agreement to arbitrate under the Business and Professions
Code’s mandatory arbitration rules.  “A contractual
right to binding arbitration survives if arbitration under the MFAA is waived or
fails to resolve the dispute.”  (Benjamin,
Weill & Mazer v. Kors (2011) 195 Cal.App.4th 40, 53.)  The parties have agreed in writing to arbitrate
“[a]ny dispute or controversy arising from or in connection with this Agreement
or in regard to the services rendered, including legal malpractice,” not just fee
disputes.
The
Arbitration Agreement is not unenforceable on this ground.
D.        Simons May Enforce the Arbitration Agreement.
Plaintiff
argues that Simons had no arbitration agreement with her and is not mentioned in
the Notice of Motion.  (Opposition at pp.
6-7.)  However, Simons filed a proper Notice
of Joinder after the Khashayar Defendants filed their motion.
Plaintiff
retained Simons in June 2018.  (Simons Decl.
¶ 4.)  In May 2022, Plaintiff emailed Simons
about wanting to bring in Khashayar as counsel. 
(Simons Decl. ¶ 6.)  The fee agreement
containing the Arbitration Agreement was signed by Plaintiff and Khashayar on January
9, 2023.
Generally,
only a party to an arbitration agreement may enforce the agreement, but the doctrine
of equitable estoppel is an exception that allows a non-signatory to enforce an
agreement.  (Felisilda v. FCA US LLC
(2020) 53 Cal.App.5th 486, 495.)  Under the
doctrine of equitable estoppel, “a nonsignatory defendant may invoke an arbitration
clause to compel a signatory plaintiff to arbitrate its claims when the causes of
action against the nonsignatory are ‘intimately founded in and intertwined’ with
the underlying contract obligations.”  (JSM
Tuscany, LLC v. Superior Court (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1222, 1237.)  The doctrine applies in either of two circumstances:
(1) when the signatory must rely on the terms of the written agreement containing
the arbitration clause in asserting its claims against the nonsignatory; or (2)
when the signatory alleges “substantially interdependent and concerted misconduct”
by the nonsignatory and a signatory and the alleged misconduct is “founded in or
intimately connected with the obligations of the underlying agreement.”  (Goldman v. KPMG, LLP (2009) 173 Cal.App.4th
209, 218-219.)
Although
Simons is a non-signatory, Plaintiff alleges all causes of action against all Defendants,
arising from “substantially interdependent and concerted misconduct.”  The fee dispute is founded in or intimately connected
with the fee agreement that contains the Arbitration Agreement.
Accordingly,
under the doctrine of equitable estoppel, Simons may enforce the Arbitration Agreement.
E.        There is No Valid Basis for Rescission
of the Arbitration Agreement.
Finally,
Plaintiff argues that she “timely rescinded and avoided the contingency fee agreement.”  (Opposition at p. 9.)
Plaintiff
relies on Business and Professions Code section 6147, which requires an attorney
who contracts to represent a client on a contingency fee basis to provide the client
with a signed duplicate of the contract at the time the contract is entered into,
and the contract must include certain provisions.  “Failure to comply with any provision of this
section renders the agreement voidable at the option of the plaintiff, and the attorney
shall thereupon be entitled to collect a reasonable fee.”  (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 6147, subd. (b).)
It
is undisputed that there was a written fee agreement that was signed by both the
client and attorney, and there is no dispute about the terms.  Instead, Plaintiff contends that she did not receive
a fully executed copy of the fee agreement. 
(Stempler Decl. ¶¶ 4-5; DeSanto Decl. ¶¶ 4-5.)  Khashayar declares that he handed Plaintiff signed
and fully executed copies of both the Retainer and the Fee Sharing Disclosure in
early February 2023.  (Khashayar Decl. ¶ 17.)  The fee agreement was entered into on January
9, 2023, and early February 2023 is not “at the time the contract is entered into.”  However, Plaintiff declares only, “Pursuant to
federal Ending Forced Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of
2021 (‘EFAA’), I make the election to invalidate the arbitration agreement with
Khashayar Law Group.”  (DeSanto Decl. ¶ 6.)
Based
on the record before the Court on this motion, the Count finds that the Arbitration
Agreement has not been validly rescinded.
E.        The Related Interpleader Action Does Not
Prevent Arbitration of This Action.
Plaintiff
argues that there may be conflicting rulings in this case and Case No. 24STCV13296.  (Opposition at p. 7.)
A
court must grant a motion to compel arbitration unless a party to the arbitration
agreement is also a party to a pending court action with a third party arising out
of the same transaction and there is a possibility of conflicting rulings on a common
issue of law or fact.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
1281.2, subd. (c).)  If the court does determine
that subdivision (c) applies, the court may order arbitration among the parties
who have agreed to arbitration and stay the pending court action or special proceeding
pending the outcome of the arbitration proceeding, or may stay arbitration pending
the outcome of the court action.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2.)
On
May 28, 2024, the Law Offices of Bradley I. Kramer (“Kramer”) filed a Complaint
in Interpleader in Case No. 24STCV13296. 
Kramer’s IOLTA attorney-client trust account holds the disputed $1,324,000,
and Kramer claims no interest in the disputed funds.  With the Complaint in Interpleader, Kramer deposited
the disputed funds with the Clerk of the Court.
The
Court will stay the interpleader action while the parties arbitrate the fee dispute
for the funds at issue.
CONCLUSION
Defendants’
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. 
The entire action is STAYED pending the conclusion of the arbitration.
A
Status Conference re: Arbitration is scheduled for August 1, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in
Department 48 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse. 
Five court days before, the parties are to file a joint report stating the
name of their retained arbitrator and the status of arbitration.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 1st day of August 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 