 Case Number:  23STCV23120    Hearing Date:   August 1, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



TITO HARPER, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
DAMCO DISTRIBUTION SERVICES, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV23120
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING PETITION TO COMPEL
  ARBITRATION
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
August 1, 2024



 
On September 25, 2023, Plaintiff
Tito Harper filed this action against Defendants Damco Distribution Services, Inc.
and Simplified Labor Staffing Solutions Inc. arising from his employment.
On
October 20, 2023, Simplified Labor Staffing Solutions Inc. filed a petition to compel
arbitration.  Defendants Damco Distribution
Services, Inc. filed a notice of joinder.
DISCUSSION
When seeking to compel arbitration
of a plaintiff’s claims, the defendant must allege the existence of an agreement
to arbitrate.  (Condee v. Longwood Management
Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.) 
The burden then shifts to the plaintiff to prove the falsity of the agreement.  (Ibid.)  After the Court determines that an agreement to
arbitrate exists, it then considers objections to its enforceability.  (Ibid.)
The Court must grant a petition
to compel arbitration unless the defendant has waived the right to compel arbitration
or if there are grounds to revoke the arbitration agreement.  (Ibid.; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)  Under California law and the Federal Arbitration
Act (“FAA”), an arbitration agreement may be invalid based upon grounds applicable
to any contract, including unconscionability, fraud, duress, and public policy.  (Sanchez v. Western Pizza Enterprises, Inc.
(2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 154, 165-166.)
A.        Defendants Have Shown The Existence of
An Arbitration Agreement.
Plaintiff
was employed by Simplified as a staffing agency worker, and he was assigned to perform
services for Damco (a Simplified customer). 
(Joinder ¶ 1.)  On June 8, 2021, Plaintiff
electronically signed an Arbitration Agreement and Class Action Waiver.  (Petition Ex. 1 [“Arbitration Agreement”].)  Through the Arbitration Agreement, the parties
agreed to arbitrate “all disputes relating to or arising out of or in connection
with employment . . . .”
Defendants
have satisfied their burden of showing the existence of an agreement to arbitrate.
B.        The Arbitration Agreement Satisfies The
Armendariz Factors.
Arbitration
agreements for FEHA claims must (1) provide for neutral arbitrators, (2) provide
for more than minimal discovery, (3) require a written award, (4) provide for all
of the types of relief that would otherwise be available in court, and (5) not require
employees to pay either unreasonable costs or any arbitrators’ fees or expenses
as a condition of access to the arbitration forum.  (Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102 (Armendariz).)  These requirements may apply to non-FEHA employment
claims.  (See Pinela v. Neiman Marcus Group,
Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 227, 254 [applying the Armendariz factors
in the context of claims under the Labor Code].)
The
arbitration will proceed with a neutral arbitrator through AAA, whose rules provide
for adequate discovery and a written award. 
Plaintiff’s share of the arbitration fees will not exceed the amount of a
local court filing fee.
Accordingly,
the Arbitration Agreement satisfies Armendariz.
C.        The Arbitration Agreement Should Be Enforced.
Plaintiff did not file an
opposition.  Accordingly, he has not shown
any grounds to revoke the arbitration agreement.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)
CONCLUSION
Defendants’
petition to compel arbitration is GRANTED. 
The entire action is STAYED pending the conclusion of the arbitration.
A
Status Conference re: Arbitration is scheduled for August 1, 2025 at 8:30 a.m. in
Department 48 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse. 
Five court days before, the parties are to file a joint report stating the
name of their retained arbitrator and the status of arbitration.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 1st day of August 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 