 This is an employment action.  Defendant Michael Kors (USA), Inc. seeks to compel arbitration of this matter based on an arbitration agreement purportedly executed by Plaintiff Seferino Morales as a component of his employment.  Plaintiff opposes the Motion, contending that the subject agreement is unconscionable.“ ‘[U]nconscionability has both a “procedural” and a “substantive” element,’ the former focusing on ‘ “oppression” ’ or ‘ “surprise” ’ due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on ‘ “overly harsh” ’ or ‘ “one-sided” ’ results. [Citation.] ‘The prevailing view is that [procedural and substantive unconscionability] must both be present in order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or clause under the doctrine of unconscionability.’ [Citation.] But they need not be present in the same degree.... [T]he more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.”  (Armendariz v. Found. Health Psychcare Servs., Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 114.)Plaintiff first points to the agreement’s provision that “The parties agree to file any demand for arbitration within the time limit established by the applicable statute of limitations for the asserted Claims or within one year of the conduct that forms the basis for the claim if no statutory limitation is applicable. Failure to demand arbitration within the prescribed time period shall result in a waiver of such claims.”  Plaintiff argues that “the employer has already acted as the Judge and adjudicated that the arbitration agreement is enforceable. If the employee, as here, chooses to challenge the arbitration agreement by pursuing his FEHA rights in court, which he is legally entitled to do, and does not concede to arbitration within the statutory time period, according to the employer in this agreement this ‘shall result in a waiver of said claims.’ ”  This is not true.  The above provision is merely a statute of limitations and Plaintiff’s choice to first file a lawsuit would equitably toll the limitations period for filing an arbitration claim.  Indeed, the above provision incorporates the “applicable” statute of limitations and “If an arbitration agreement requires that arbitration of a controversy be demanded or initiated by a party to the arbitration agreement within a period of time, the commencement of a civil action by that party based upon that controversy, within that period of time, shall toll the applicable time limitations contained in the arbitration agreement with respect to that controversy, from the date the civil action is commenced until 30 days after a final determination by the court that the party is required to arbitrate the controversy, or 30 days after the final termination of the civil action that was commenced and initiated the tolling, whichever date occurs first.”  (Code Civ. Proc. § 1281.12.)Plaintiff next points to the provision that “Nothing in this agreement precludes Employee from filing a charge or from participating in an administrative investigation of a charge before any appropriate government agency. However, Employee understands and agrees that Employee cannot obtain any monetary relief or recovery from such proceeding.”  Plaintiff contends that “[t]his hidden clause deprives the employee of his right to seek monetary damages through the CRD.”  Defendant argues that this clause merely precludes monetary relief while also pursuing arbitration—that is, it only precludes a double recovery.  This lacks merit.  This clause plainly states that an administrative claim cannot result in monetary relief, and there is no tether to a competing arbitration proceeding.  The Court concludes the sentence precluding monetary relief through an agency is invalid because it limits the relief an employee can ordinarily obtain.  (See Armendariz v. Found. Health Psychcare Servs., Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102.)Plaintiff also contends it is unconscionable that the agreement allows injunctive relief in Court for the employer.  However, unlike in Stirlen v. Supercuts, Inc. (1997) 51 Cal.App.4th 1519, 1528, the subject provision is bilateral, and, unlike in Mercuro v. Superior Ct. (2002) 96 Cal. App. 4th 167, 176, it is not limited to relief pertaining to intellectual property or the disclosure of trade secret information. Plaintiff next argues that the class waiver, which would include PAGA claims, is invalid. The provision at issue reads: “EMPLOYEE FURTHER WAIVES THE RIGHT TO:(A) ARBITRATE ANY CLAIM ON A CLASS OR COLLECTIVE ACTION BASIS OR IN A PURPORTED REPRESENTATIVE CAPACITY ON BEHALF OF ANY FELLOW EMPLOYEES, CONTRACTORS, OR ANYONE SIMILARLY SITUATED;(B) JOIN OR TO CONSOLIDATE IN ANY ARBITRATION CLAIMS BROUGHT AGAINST THE COMPANIES, UNLESS OTHERWISE AGREED TO IN WRITING BY ALL PARTIES;(C) PARTICIPATE AS A MEMBER OF ANY CLASS OF CLAIMANTS IN AN ACTION IN A COURT OF LAW PERTAINING TO ANY CLAIMS.” A general class waiver in an employment action would be valid under the FAA.  (See, e.g., Iskanian v. CLS Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348, 364; AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333).  On the other hand, the wholesale waiver of a representative PAGA claim is invalid.  (Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 596 U.S. 639, 662.)  The above provision does not explicitly reference the PAGA, but it has been said that a reference to “representative” claims—as stated in subsection (A)—certainly encompasses a PAGA claim.  (Iskanian v. CLS Transportation Los Angeles, LLC (2014) 59 Cal.4th 348, 378.)  Subsection (A) precludes the arbitration of representative PAGA claims; this alone is not a wholesale waiver of claims in any forum.  Subsection (C) relates to waiving particular claims in court proceedings too—specifically, “class” claims.  The question is whether subsection (C) can be interpreted to include PAGA claims.  The Court concludes that it does not include PAGA claims because it references only “class” claims, while subsection (A) references “representative” claims more broadly.  Indeed, class claims differ from PAGA claims fundamentally.  (See Viking River Cruises, Inc. v. Moriana (2022) 596 U.S. 639, 640.)  That is, there is no wholesale waiver of PAGA claims; rather, there is a waiver of representative PAGA claims in arbitration and a waiver of class claims altogether, neither of which is invalid.  Lastly, Plaintiff argues that “[t]he arbitration agreement favors Defendants in that it allow for demurrers or MSJ’s but they attempts to limit discovery pursuant to the arbitration rules.”  Armendariz held that arbitration agreements relating to unwaivable statutory rights must “(1) provide[] for neutral arbitrators, (2) provide[] for more than minimal discovery, (3) require[] a written award [which permits judicial review], (4) provide[] for all of the types of relief that would otherwise be available in court, and (5) . . . not require employees to pay either unreasonable costs or any arbitrators' fees or expenses as a condition of access to the arbitration forum.”  (Armendariz v. Found. Health Psychcare Servs., Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 102.) Here, the subject agreement indicates that discovery will take place pursuant to AAA employment rules, and this is sufficient to comply with the requirements of Armendariz.  (Roman v. Superior Ct. (2009) 172 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1476.)  Arbitration proceedings need not provide for the “full panoply” of discovery available under the Code of Civil Procedure.  (Armendariz v. Found. Health Psychcare Servs., Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 105.)  The AAA rules provide for discovery should it be “necessary to a full and fair exploration of the issues in dispute . . . .”  Unlike in Fitz v. NCR Corp. (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 702118 Cal.App.4th 702, 709 in which sufficient discovery was not found, here the arbitrator need not find that “a fair hearing is impossible without [the requested] additional discovery.”  Indeed, requiring a showing of a “sufficient cause” does not render an arbitration agreement “substantively unconscionable.”  (Abeyrama v. J.P. Morgan Chase Bank (2012 C.D. Cal.) 2012 WL 2393063 at *4.)   The Court concludes that the only substantively unconscionable component of the subject agreement is the sentence precluding monetary relief from an agency.  The Court acknowledges there is some procedural unconscionability from the fact that the agreement is adhesive in nature.  Therefore, the Court will, in the exercise of its discretion, strike only the aforementioned provision.  (Civ. Code § 1670.5.)Because Defendant has established that an otherwise valid agreement encompasses Plaintiff’s claims, the Motion to Compel Arbitration is granted.The Court expects to set an OSC re: dismissal without prejudice pursuant to a reservation of jurisdiction by the Court to proceed if and as necessary with any appropriate enforcement or other proceedings herein; with respect to the parties subject to the Arbitration Order in this case, all applicable statutes of limitation are tolled from the date of entry of this Order.Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic. 