  Case Number:  23STCV00171    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 



MARJORIE MATSUDA, et al. 
  
        
  vs.
 
POMONA VISTA
  CARE CENTER, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  22STCV00171 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date: December 15, 2023



 
Defendants’
motion for leave to file a Cross-Complaint
is GRANTED.
 
On 1/3/2022,
Plaintiff Marjorie Matsuda in and through her successor-in-interest Brian
Matsuda and William Picknell filed suit against Pomona Vista Care Center, MJB
Partners, LLC dba Pomona Vista Care Center, and Sun Mar Management Services
(collectively, Defendants), alleging: (1) dependent abuse; (2) negligence; (3)
violation of Health and Safety Code section 1430(b); (4) willful misconduct;
and (5) wrongful death. 
 
Now,
Defendants move for leave to file a Cross-Complaint (XC). 
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendants
seek leave to file a XC for equitable indemnity against Hrayr Basmajian, M.D.
 
A party must
obtain leave of court to file any cross-complaint after the court has set a
trial date, and the court may grant leave to file a permissive cross-complaint
in the interest of justice at any time during the course of the action. (CCP §
428.50(c)) The court may grant leave to file a cross-complaint at any time
until judgment is entered. (City of Hanford v. Superior Court (1989) 208
Cal. App.3d 580; see also Orient Handel v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co.
(1987) 192 Cal.App.3d 684, 701 [cross-complaint may be filed close to time of
trial on the complaint].) 
 
            Trial
in this matter is set for 1/24/2024. Defendants argue that they only discovered
the need to pursue this claim after Plaintiff provided supplemental responses
to Defendant’s RFA No. 33 on 11/7/2023. 
 
            More
specifically, Defendants contend that at the 12/6/2022 deposition, Mr. Basmajian
testified that it is not his custom to leave any order regarding CAM boot
management, and he does not give actual orders to check the skin. (Ho Del. ¶
6.) Given that no express order was given to Defendants’ staff towards CAM Boot
management, Defendants were under the assumption that Plaintiffs’ claim against
them would not include allegations related to this issue. However, in a
11/7/2023 supplemental response to RFA No. 33—which asks the Plaintiffs to
admit that when Ms. Matsuda was discharged from the hospital, there was no
physician’s discharge order regarding skin care relating to her CAM
boot—Plaintiffs admitted, but stated that Dr. Basmajian’s deposition testimony
indicates there was never going to be an order because there was an implied
order for CAM boot management. 
 
As such, this
response informed Defendants for the first time that Plaintiff alleges that while
Dr. Basmajian did not provide express instructions on the care of the surgical
wounds, staff at Pomona Vista should have known how to care for a patient in
Ms. Matsuda’s state based on an implied order. As such, the issue of Dr.
Basmajian’s comparative negligence regarding Ms. Matsuda’s post-surgical care
is implicated, and Defendants must now pursue a claim for equitable indemnity
to account for his share of responsibility for Plaintiffs’ damages.
 
“The purpose
of equitable indemnification is to avoid the unfairness, under joint and
several liability theory, of holding one defendant liable for the plaintiff's
entire loss while allowing another responsible defendant to escape ‘scot free’.
A defendant has a right to bring in other tortfeasors who are allegedly
responsible for plaintiff's action through a cross-complaint ... for equitable
indemnification.” (Platt v. Coldwell Banker Residential Real Estate Services
(1990) 217 Cal. App.3d 1439, 1444 [citations omitted]).
 
            Here,
the Court agrees that Plaintiffs’ supplemental responses indicated that
Plaintiffs intended to allege that Defendants’ negligence was based, at least
in part, on failure to follow an implied order from Dr. Basmajian for
post-surgical wound care.  Plaintiffs did
not indicate that they believed there to be an implied order until they amended
their responses to RFA No. 33 on 11/7/2023.  As such, Defendants would be substantially
prejudiced if they were unable to pursue a claim for equitable indemnity to
account for Mr. Basmajian’s share of responsibility in this alleged negligence.
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion for leave to file a Cross-Complaint is
granted. 
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  December   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 