 Case Number:  21NWCV00633    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  C Olaes v. Kim, Et al.
CASE NO.:  21NWCV00633
HEARING:   10/11/23 @ 9:30 AM
#2
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to Amend is
DENIED.
Defendants to give NOTICE.
 
Plaintiff moves for an order granting leave to
amend her Complaint.
Background
The
court may, in furtherance of justice, and on any terms as may be proper, allow
a party to amend any pleading or proceeding by adding or striking out the name
of any party, or by correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake
in any other respect; and may, upon like terms, enlarge the time for answer or
demurrer. The court may likewise, in its discretion, after notice to the
adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an amendment to any
pleading or proceeding in other particulars; and may upon like terms allow an
answer to be made after the time limited by this code. (CCP § 473(a)(1).)
Legal
Standard
Plaintiff
Priscilla Olaes (Plaintiff) filed this complaint on September 27, 2021 against
Defendants for breach of contract and common counts related to several
promissory notes initially signed in 2002.
Discussion

Here, Plaintiff seeks leave to amend her
Complaint to allege that Defendant Kim is an alter ego of the other Defendants
and he is first and foremost a maker of the Notes.  Plaintiff also adds a paragraph to plead
around the statute of limitations defense.
It appears Plaintiff discovered her alter ego
theory in November 2022 when Defendant Kim testified “the corporations are mere
shells.” (Motion for Leave, p. 5.) 
However, Plaintiff waited until August 2023 to file this motion and
trial is scheduled for November 6, 2023, less than one month away.  Further, Defendant Kim will be prejudiced
because he will have to prepare a defense against a new cause of action.  The court finds that Plaintiff unreasonably
delayed in seeking leave.  Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for
Leave to Amend is DENIED.  OLAES v. RD RESTAURANT GROUP, INC.CASE NO.:  21NWCV00633HEARING:   10/3/23 #5 REVISED TENTATIVE RULING On October 3, 2023, the court heard argument regarding Plaintiff’s
request to continue Defendants’ motion for summary judgment, and the court took
the matter under submission.  Having
considered the pleadings filed by the parties and the arguments made by counsel
at the hearing, the court rules as follows:      
I.       
Defendants Kim, RD Restaurant Group, Inc.,
and Golden Den Corp.’s motion for summary judgment is DENIED.  The motion for summary adjudication is GRANTED
as to Defendant RD Restaurant Group, Inc. and DENIED as to Defendant Kim.      
II.       
Plaintiff’s request to continue Defendants’ motion for summary judgment
is DENIED.  Moving Party to give NOTICE.  Defendants Kim, RD Restaurant Group, Inc.,
and Golden Den Corp. move for
summary judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication pursuant to CCP §
437c. COMPLAINT This action arises out of seven
promissory notes signed by Plaintiff Olaes (lender) and Defendants
David Kim, RD Restaurant Group, Inc. and Golden Den Corp. (borrowers) between
2002 to 2008 in the sum of $2,998,814.00. 
(Complaint, ¶¶
8, 24, 27.)  Based thereon, the Complaint
asserts causes of action for: 1.    Breach of Contract2.    Common Counts  STANDARD A defendant has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that
there is a complete defense to the cause of action. Once the defendant or
cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff or
cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. (CCP § 437c(p)(2).)   EVIDENTIARY RULINGS Plaintiff’s evidentiary objections Nos. 1-3 to the
Declaration of David Kim are OVERRULED. Plaintiff’s request for Judicial Notice of Plaintiff’s
Exhibits 21-23 is GRANTED. Defendant’s evidentiary objections Nos. 1-30 are OVERRULED. MERITS MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT Breach of Contract: The elements
for a breach of contract cause of action are: 1) the contract; 2) plaintiff’s
performance or excuse for nonperformance; 3) defendant’s breach; and 4)
resulting damages.  (Reichert v. General
Ins. Co. (1968) 68 Cal.2d 822, 830.)  Common Counts: The elements for Money Lent are: 1) Defendant
is indebted to plaintiff in a certain sum; and 2) for money lent, paid or
expended to, or for, the defendant. 
(Moya v. Northrup (1970) 10 Cal. App. 3d 276, 280; 4 Witkin Cal. Pro. (4th
ed. 1997) § 525.)   It is undisputed that Defendants stopped making payments on
the loans from May 2012 through July 2014; resumed payments in August 2014; and
stopped making payments altogether, with the last payment being made on August
18, 2020.  Defendants argue that the claims on the contract are barred
by the 6-year statute of limitations set forth in Comm. Code § 3118(a), which
provides that a suit to “enforce the obligation to pay a note payable at a
definite time shall be commenced within six years after the due date or dates
stated in the note.”   “Except as provided in
subdivisions (c) and (d), “negotiable instrument” means an unconditional
promise or order to pay a fixed amount of money, with or without interest or
other charges described in the promise or order, if it is all of the following:
(1) Is payable to bearer…
at the time it is issued or first comes into possession of a holder.  (2) Is
payable on demand or at a definite time. 
(3) Does not state
any other undertaking or instruction by the person promising or ordering
payment to do any act in addition to the payment of money…” (Comm. Code §
3104(a).)  “An instrument is a ‘note’ if
it is a promise…” (Comm. Code § 3104(e).) 
 Here, the Notes: (1) set forth the terms of payment to
Plaintiff, (2) required both payment on demand “upon the failure to make any
payment due” and payment within 36 months of the date the Notes were entered
into, and (3) did not require Defendants to do any act other than repay the
Notes.  Therefore, the Notes were
negotiable instruments governed by Comm. Code § 3118(a), and Plaintiff was
required to file suit to enforce the terms of the Notes within 6 years after
the due dates stated in the Notes. Payments were due 36 months from February 1, 2008, September
14, 2008, September 28, 2008, November 16, 2008, and November 17, 2008.  Therefore, payments were due on the various
Notes between February 1, 2011 and November 17, 2011.  Pursuant to Comm. Code § 3118(a), Plaintiff
was required to file the action within 6 years after the due dates stated in
the Notes, or between February 1, 2017 and November 17, 2017.  The instant lawsuit was filed on September
27, 2021, beyond the statute of limitations. 
 Plaintiff contends that CCP § 360 tolls the statute of
limitations.  CCP § 360 provides, “No
acknowledgment or promise is sufficient evidence of a new or continuing
contract, by which to take the case out of the operation of this title, unless
the same is contained in some writing, signed by the party to be charged
thereby, provided that any payment on account of principle or interest due on a
promissory note made by the party to be charged shall be deemed a sufficient
acknowledgment or promise of a continuing contract to stop, from time to time
as any such payment is made, the running of the time within which an action may
be commenced upon the principal sum or upon any installment of principal or
interest due on such note, and to start the running of a new period of time,
but no such payment of itself shall revive a cause of action once barred.”  According to Plaintiff, the instant lawsuit
was timely filed because the statute of limitations was tolled up to August 18,
2020, the last day that a monthly payment was made. The court finds there is a triable issue whether the claims are
barred by the statute of limitations pursuant to Comm. Code § 3118(a), or
whether they are tolled pursuant CCP § 360. 
 Accordingly, Defendants’ motion for summary judgment is
DENIED. MOTIONS FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION In the alternative, Defendants David Kim (“Kim”) and RD Restaurant Group, Inc. (“RDR”) move for
summary adjudication.  Summary
adjudication is not sought as to Golden Den Corp. (“Golden Den”).   Defendant Kim Kim argues he is entitled to
summary adjudication because Plaintiff only received payments from Golden
Den.  As guarantor of the loan, Kim never
made payments to Plaintiff or communicated with Plaintiff in any manner.  Kim argues that the payment of an obligor
does not function to toll the statute of limitations for the personal
guarantor.  (Purdy v. Maree (1939)
31 Cal.App.2d 125.)   Plaintiff makes several arguments
in opposition.  First, Plaintiff advances
the theory that Kim is an obligor under the loan, not just a guarantor.  Kim, along with Golden Den and RDR, signed
the loan documents agreeing to “jointly and severally” guarantee the prompt and
punctual payment of “all monies” due under the notes and agreed to “remain
fully bound until fully paid.”  Plaintiff
argues this language proves that Kim considered himself to be jointly liable
with RDR and Golden Den as obligors.  In
Reply, Kim points out that the Fixed Note Loan Agreements, which control the
terms and conditions of the loans, clearly list Golden Den and RDR as the
obligors and Kim as the guarantor.  Moreover,
Plaintiff’s theory that Kim is an obligor, raised for the first time in
opposition to Defendant’s motion for summary judgment, is inconsistent with the
theory of liability stated in the Complaint, which alleges that Golden Den and
RDR are the obligors and Kim is the guarantor. 
 The court determines that Plaintiff’s
theory that Kim is an obligor is improperly raised for the first time in
opposition to Defendant’s motion for summary judgment.  “A defendant moving for summary judgment need
address only the issues raised by the complaint; the plaintiff cannot bring up
new, unpleaded issues in his or her opposing papers.”  (Government Employees Ins. Co. v. Superior
Court (2000) 79 Cal.App.4th 95, fn. 4.)  Government Employees noted that a
Plaintiff may seek leave to amend the complaint to defend against a motion for
summary judgment. (Soderberg v. McKinney (1996) 44 Cal.App.4th
1760.)  Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to
File First Amended Complaint is heard concurrently with Defendant’s Motion for
Summary Judgment and is the subject of a separate ruling by the court. Secondly, Plaintiff argues that Kim
waived his right to assert the statute of limitations by acknowledging the debt
in an August 26, 2020 letter to Plaintiff. (Buescher v. Lastar (1976) 61
Cal.App.3d 73.)  In the letter, Kim
explains that the company he works for [GEN Korean BBQ] got shut down again …
and I don’t know when it will fully reopen.” 
Kim writes that he will continue making payments “when the company I
work for fully reopened back.” (Plaintiff’s NOL, vol. 1, Ex. 6.)  Although the letter was written on Golden
Den’s letter head and was signed by Kim as “President” of Golden Den, Plaintiff
argues that the letter is evidence that Kim personally acknowledged the debt in
his capacity as guarantor.  The court
agrees.  Purdy is distinguishable
because there is no indication that the guarantors in that case did anything in
their personal capacities to acknowledge the debt.  Moreover, there is nothing in Plaintiff’s
argument that is inconsistent with her theory that Kim is the guarantor of the
loan.  As such, it is properly raised in
opposition to the motion for summary judgment. 
 The court finds there is a triable
issue whether Kim waived his right to assert the statute of limitations by
acknowledging the debt in his August 26, 2020 letter to Plaintiff.  Accordingly, Kim’s motion for summary
adjudication is DENIED. Defendant RDR RDR argues that the payments made
by Golden Den to Plaintiff do not automatically toll the statute of limitations
as to RDR.  (State Loan & Trust
Co. v. Cochran (1900) 130 Cal. 245, 255.  In Opposition, Plaintiff argues that Kim has admitted
that the monthly payments to Plaintiff were made on behalf of both Golden Den
and RDR. (Kim Decl. dated June 6, 2023, ¶ 7, found at Plaintiff’s NOL, v. 3,
Exhibit 21.)  As RDR points out, however,
Kim has since corrected his June 6, 2023 declaration by stating that “Golden
Den alone, issued all seventy payments that were made to Plaintiff over the
life of the Notes.  None of those seventy
payments were made by RDR or by me in my personal capacity or as personal
guarantor.”  (Kim Decl. dated July 19,
2023, ¶ 12.)  The court determines that
Plaintiff has failed to raise a triable issue regarding the statute of
limitations as applied to RDR.   Accordingly, RDR’s motion for
summary adjudication is GRANTED. REQUEST FOR CONTINUANCE Given the court’s rulings with
respect to the motion for summary judgment, it is unclear whether Plaintiff
will be seeking a continuance.  Plaintiff
writes, “If the Court is not inclined to deny the Defendants Motion, then the
Court should continue it … to a date until after the Plaintiff’s Motions to
Compel further discovery responses are heard [on October 17, 2023].”  (Opp., p. 1.) 
In his declaration in Support of Continuance to Conduct Discovery,
Plaintiff’s Counsel argues that a continuance is necessary because Plaintiff is
seeking “documents concerning, among other things, copies of Golden Den’s
communications with a man named Mr. Hewko concerning the Plaintiff, and
documents concerning certain inflows and outflows of money at Golden Den
relevant not only to the reasons for why the Plaintiff has not yet been paid in
full, but also relevant to Mr. Kim’s alter ego status at Golden Den.” (Gardner
Decl., ¶4,)  Plaintiff also seeks the
identities and contact information of Golden Den employees who may have
information relevant to Kim’s status as an alter ego of Golden Den and “form
letters” sent by Golden Den to lenders “waiving” interest payments. (Gardner
Decl., ¶¶9-14.)  As reflected in the
court’s ruling re Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File First Amended Complaint,
Plaintiff’s request to proceed on an alter ego theory at this stage of the
proceedings is untimely.  As such,
information relating to Kim’s alter ego status is not material to any issue at
trial.  None of the remaining reasons
proffered by Plaintiff establish good cause for a trial continuance.   Accordingly, Plaintiff’s request for
a continuance is DENIED.         
