 Case Number:  23NWCV01323    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  C Acuna v. sameday
insurance, et al.
CASE NO.:  23NWCV01323
HEARING:   10/11/23 @ 9:30 AM
#3
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The application
for admission pro hac vice is GRANTED.
Moving Party to give NOTICE.
 
Applicants
John Husmann and Mark Deptula apply for admission pro hac vice pursuant to California Rule of
Court (CRC), Rule 9.40.
Legal Standard
CRC, rule 9.40 provides that an attorney in
good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to appear as counsel pro hac
vice in the State of California by filing a verified application together with
proof of service by mail of a copy of the application and notice of hearing on
all parties who have appeared in the case and on the State Bar of California at
its San Francisco office, with payment of a $50.00 fee, so long as that
attorney is not a resident of the State of California, and is not regularly
engaged in substantial business, professional, or other activities in the State
of California.
The application must state: (1) the applicant’s
residence and office addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been
admitted to practice and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a
member in good standing in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not
currently suspended or disbarred in any court; (5) the title of each court and
cause in which the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro
hac vice in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each application,
and whether or not it was granted; and (6) the name, address, and telephone
number of the active member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of
record in the local action.¿ (CRC, rule 9.40(d).)
Discussion
Here, Applicants seek admission to represent
Defendant Aegis Security Insurance Co. Applicants filed a verified application
with their declarations which included the relevant information. Their
application complies with the requirements of CRC, Rule 940(d) and was served
on all parties who have appeared and the State Bar of California.  Accordingly,
the application for admission pro hac vice is GRANTED.