 Case Number:  23STLC01807    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  26 Background
            On March 4, 2024, Plaintiff Barry
Rosen (“Plaintiff”) filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) for
declaratory and injunctive relief for the involuntary reorganization,
receivership, or in lieu thereof, involuntary dissolution of Clark Drive Homeowners
Association (“Defendant”). 
            On April 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the instant Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings. On April 26, 2024, Defendant
filed an opposition. On May 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply. 
 Allegations of the
Operative FAC
            The
FAC alleges that:
            Plaintiff
is the owner of a condominium unit located at 136 South Clark Drive, Unit 5,
Los Angeles, CA and by virtue of said ownership is a member/shareholder of the
Clark Drive Homeowners Association. FAC ¶ 1. 
            Defendant
is a common interest homeowner association that oversee real property
development consisting of 8 individual condominium units, where the property
owners share a common set of financial obligations with each unit having an
interest in some common area. FAC ¶ 2. 
            Defendant
has continued to breach all of its fiduciary obligations under the terms of
Bylaws and Covenants, Conditions & Restrictions, provisions of California
Civil Code (“Davis-Stirling Act”), and California Corporations Code, in the
operation of the homeowner association and does not have a board of directors
neither properly nor duly elected, resulting in abandonment of its activity for
more than one year. FAC ¶¶ 4, 6. Alternatively, those purportedly in control of
the homeowner association have been guilty of or have knowingly countenanced
persistent and pervasive fraud, mismanagement or abuse of authority or
persistent unfairness toward any member, including but not limited to
Plaintiff, and Defendant’s property is being misapplied and wasted by its
purported directors or officers. Id.
            Specifically,
Defendant failed to hold the required 12 meetings per year under Bylaws section
7.1. FAC ¶ 6a. Defendant only held about two improper telephonic meetings of
the Board during all of 2022. FAC ¶ 6b. The Board willfully and negligently
failed to take any corrective action and decided to retaliate against Plaintiff
for initiating litigation. FAC ¶ 6c. Defendant failed to hold the required
annual general meeting of all shareholders. FAC ¶ 6d. the current Board has
fully and willfully failed to familiarize themselves with the Governing
Documents. FAC ¶ 6e. No election policy was ever submitted to all shareholders.
FAC ¶ 6f. Plaintiff suggested and attempted to force a special mandatory reorganization
meeting of the shareholders by sending various petitions in 2021, 2022, and
2023 to Defendant. FAC ¶ 6g. The Board failed to maintain the common interest
development building and security resulting in damage to all shareholders and
directly Plaintiff. FAC ¶ 6h. 
            The
pattern of continual mismanagement and breach of fiduciary obligations by the
Board goes back over a decade. FAC ¶ 7. 
 
Legal Standard
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings has the same function as a general
demurrer but is made after the time for demurrer has expired. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 438, subd. (f).)  Except as provided by
statute, the rules governing demurrers apply. 
(Civic Partners Stockton, LLC v. Youssefi (2013) 218 Cal.App.4th
1005, 1012.)  “Like a demurrer, the
grounds for the motion [for judgment on the pleadings] must appear on the face
of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to
take judicial notice.”  (Id. at
1013.)  In ruling on a motion for
judgment on the pleadings, “[a]ll allegations in the complaint and matters upon
which judicial notice may be taken are assumed to be true.”  (Rippon v. Bowen (2008) 160
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1313.)
Code
of Civil Procedure section 438 subdivision (c) subsection (1) provides a motion
for judgment on the pleading may only made on one of the following grounds: 
              (A)     “[i]f
the moving party is a plaintiff, that the complaint states facts sufficient to
constitute a cause or causes of action against the defendant and the answer
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense to the complaint;
(B)       [i]f the moving party is a defendant,
that either of the following conditions exist:
i.          The court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the complaint;
ii.         The complaint does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1).)
Code
of Civil Procedure section 438 subdivision (f) provides a motion for judgment
on the pleading may only made after one of the following conditions has
occurred: 
 
(1)   “[i]f
the moving party is a plaintiff, and the defendant has already filed his or her
answer to the complaint and the time for the plaintiff to demur to the answer
has expired; [or]
(2)   [i]f
the moving party is a defendant, and the defendant has already filed his or her
answer to the complaint and the time for the defendant to demur to the
complaint has expired.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (f).)
Meet and Confer
Per
Code of Civil Procedure section 439 subdivision (a), before filing a judgment
on the pleadings pursuant to this chapter, the moving party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to the motion for judgment on the pleadings for the purpose of
determining whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the
objections to be raised in the motion for judgment on the pleadings...” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 439, subd. (a).) The moving party shall file and serve with the motion
for judgment on the pleadings a declaration concerning the parties meet and
confer efforts.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 439,
subd. (a)(3).)
Here, Plaintiff
has not fulfilled the meet and confer requirement.  (Rosen Decl. ¶¶ 6-8.)
 
Discussion
            Plaintiff
moves for a non-statutory motion for judgment on the pleadings on the grounds
that Defendant failed to respond to the FAC by answer or demurrer, constituting
a waiver per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.80. Plaintiff argues given
this failure, the Court is authorized to enter judgment in his favor in the
instant case. Furthermore, Plaintiff contends default was entered about a year
ago and Defendant essentially recycled its prior demurrer to the wrong
operative complaint, so there is no responsive pleading timely filed in
response to the FAC. Moreover, Plaintiff asserts a demurrer is inappropriate
because his complaint is for declaratory relief and he has standing under
Corporation Code section 1800, subdivision (a)(2) to bring this action.
Plaintiff also argues the purported legal counsel for Defendant,
Swedelsongottleib, has demonstrated an ongoing pattern of inexcusable neglect
and malpractice. Finally, Plaintiff contends currently no evidence exists that
Swedelsongottleib was ever lawfully or otherwise retained to present Defendant.

            In
opposition, Defendant argues the instant motion is incomprehensible in that it
does not allege Defendant filed an insufficient Answer but seems to argue the
Court should enter judgment in Plaintiff’s favor on the grounds that no
responsive pleading was timely filed with respect to the FAC. In fact, Defendant
contends the motion premature and procedurally improper because it filed a
demurrer to the FAC on April 4, 2024. Moreover, Defendant asserts the FAC is
substantively identical to the original Complaint except it adds language
related to the Certificate of Compliance required pursuant to Civil Code
section 5950. Additionally, Defendant asserts whether its demurrer is valid is
a decision for the Court not Plaintiff. Lastly, Defendant argues Plaintiff’s
evidence in support of the present motion, i.e., the unsigned declaration and
other documentation, should be stricken because they are prohibited extraneous
evidence before the Court. 
            In
reply, Plaintiff argues the Court should reject Defendants untimely served
opposition because it needed to be served no later than April 20, 2024 and was
not served on Plaintiff until April 26, 2024. Furthermore, Plaintiff contends
Defendant’s demurrer is not responsive to the current FAC. Plaintiff also
argues Defendant has pattern of unwillingness to meet and confer with him. Last,
Plaintiff contends the question remains whether Swedelsongottleib was ever
lawfully or otherwise retained to present Defendant.
            The
Court finds that the motion for judgment on the pleadings is premature and
substantive improper. A plaintiff may move for judgment on the pleadings after
a defendant has filed their Answer to the Complaint and the time for a
plaintiff to demur to the Answer has expired. Here, Defendant has not filed an
Answer to the FAC and currently has a demurrer pending before this Court.
Furthermore, a plaintiff may only move for judgment on the pleadings on the
grounds that the complaint state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of
action against defendant and defendant’s Answer fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a defense to the complaint. As such, Plaintiff’s is
substantively improper because it seeks judgment on the pleadings on the
grounds that Defendant’s demurrer is not responsive because it does not demur
as to the FAC but the original Complaint. Also, Plaintiff motion for judgment
on the pleadings appears to be a request for entry of default judgment, when
the entry of default has already been set aside and Defendant has a demurrer
pending before the Court. Additionally, the opposition was timely filed and
served on April 26, 2024 because that was at least nine court days before the
noticed hearing date of May 9, 2024. Therefore, Plaintiff has not shown that
the motion for judgment on pleadings is warranted at this time. 
 
Conclusion and ORDER
            Based on the foregoing, Plaintiff
Barry Rosen’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED. 
            Moving Party to give notice within
seven (7) days.