  Case Number:  23STCV21950    Hearing Date:   May 9, 2024    Dept:  26 Procedural
Background
On September 12,
2023, Plaintiff Dioncio Cruz (“Plaintiff”) initiated this action against
Defendant AMPAM Parks Mechanical Inc. (“Defendant”). The Complaint asserts the
following seven causes of action: (1) Discrimination in Violation of Government
Code §§ 12940, et seq.; (2) Retaliation in Violation of Government Code
§§ 12940, et seq.; (3) Failure to Prevent Discrimination, Harassment,
and Retaliation in Violation of Government Code §§ 12940, et seq.; (4)
Failure to Provide Reasonable Accommodations in Violation of Government Code §§
12940, et seq.; (5) Failure to Engage in a Good Faith Interactive
Process in Violation of Government Code §§ 12940, et seq.; (6) Wrongful
Termination in Violation of Public Policy; and (7) Failure to Permit Inspection
of Personnel and Payroll Records (Labor Code § 1198.5).
            On
December 26, 2023, Defendant filed the instant motion to compel arbitration. On
April 26, 2024, Plaintiff filed his opposition. Thereafter, on May 2, 2024,
Defendant filed its reply.
            
Evidentiary
Objections
            Plaintiff objects to various
portions of the Declarations of Uzma Khan and Oscar Alvarado. As to the
objections directed at Uzma Khan’s declaration, the Court overrules these in
their entirety. With regard to the objections raised against portions of Oscar
Alvarado’s declaration, the Court sustains Objection Nos. 6 and 7 on the ground
that Mr. Alvarado lacks personal knowledge that Plaintiff definitively executed
the arbitration agreement. The remaining objections are overruled. 
            Defendant also object to various
portions of Plaintiff’s declaration. The Court overrules these objections in
their entirety.
 
Legal
Standard
In a motion to compel arbitration, the
moving party must prove by a preponderance of evidence the existence of the
arbitration agreement and that the dispute is covered by the agreement. The
burden then shifts to the resisting party to prove by a preponderance of evidence
a ground for denial (e.g., fraud, unconscionability, etc.).  (Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin.
Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413-414; Hotels Nevada v. L.A.
Pacific Center, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 754, 758.)
Generally, on a petition to compel
arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either (1) no
written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2) the right to compel arbitration has
been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement; or (4)
litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or create
conflicting rulings on common issues. 
(Cal. Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; Condee v. Longwood Management Corp.
(2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.)
“California has a strong public policy in
favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the arbitrability of a dispute
are resolved in favor of arbitration.” (Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue
Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.)  “This strong policy has resulted in the
general rule that arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with
assurance that an arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation
covering the asserted dispute.” (Id. [internal quotations
omitted].)  
 
Discussion
A.   
Existence of
a Valid Arbitration Agreement
The party moving to compel arbitration
must establish the existence of a written arbitration agreement between the
parties. (Code of Civ. Proc. § 1281.2.) In ruling on a motion to compel
arbitration, the court must first determine whether the parties actually agreed
to arbitrate the dispute, and general principles of California contract law
help guide the court in making this determination. (Mendez v. Mid-Wilshire
Health Care Center (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 534, 541.)
Once petitioners allege that an
arbitration agreement exists, the burden shifts to respondents to prove the
falsity of the purported agreement, and no evidence or authentication is
required to find the arbitration agreement exists. (See Condee v. Longwood Mgt. Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 219.)
However, if the existence of the agreement is challenged, "petitioner
bears the burden of proving [the arbitration agreement's] existence by a
preponderance of the evidence." (Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413. See also
Espejo v. Southern California Permanente
Medical Group (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 1047, 1058-1060.)
Here, Defendant has provided a copy of the
arbitration agreement, suggesting that a signed arbitration agreement exists
between the parties. (Alvarado Decl., Exh. A; see Condee v. Longwood
Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218 [“With respect to the
moving party's burden to provide evidence of the existence of
an agreement to arbitrate, it is generally sufficient for that party to present
a copy of the contract to the court.”].) In pertinent part, the arbitration
agreement states:
 
“I understand that
this agreement requires me to pursue all claims I bring against the Company
(and any third-party beneficiaries) through binding arbitration and requires
the Company submit any claims it has against me to binding arbitration (except
for those claims specifically excluded by this agreement). Our agreement to
arbitrate includes any and all claims which arise out of the employment context
or any other interaction/relationship we had, have or may have in the future.
Those claims include, but are not limited to, any claim, dispute, and/or
controversy that either party brings against the other (including, but not
limited to, any claims of discrimination and harassment, whether they be based
on the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, the Americans With
Disabilities Act, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, as
well as all other applicable state or federal laws or regulations) which would
otherwise require or allow resort to any court or other governmental dispute
resolution forum between myself and the Company, as well as any third-party
beneficiaries of the Company. Third party beneficiaries include the Company’s
owners, directors, officers, managers, employees, agents, partners, attorneys,
sister-companies, subsidiaries, parent companies, joint-venturers, affiliated
persons/entities, successors, and assigns, and independent contractors, and
parties affiliated with its employee benefit and health plans. These claims
also include any claims arising from, related to, or having any relationship or
connection whatsoever with my seeking employment with, employment by, or other
association with the Company or third-party beneficiaries, whether based on
tort, contract, statute, equity or otherwise.
 
(Ibid.)
Now that Defendant has presented the
existence of the arbitration agreement, “the burden shifts to [Plaintiff], who
may present any challenges to the enforcement of the agreement and evidence in
support of those challenges. [Citation]” (Baker
v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC (2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.) Once
the validity of the agreement is in question, Defendant is “required to
establish by a preponderance of the evidence that the signature was authentic.”
(Espejo v. Southern California Permanente Medical Group (2016) 246
Cal.App. 1047, 1057.)
In opposition, Plaintiff argues that the
arbitration agreement has not been properly authenticated because Defendant has
failed to establish that the electronic signature found on the agreement
genuinely belonged to Plaintiff. (Opposition at pp. 5-7.) Plaintiff reasons
that Defendant’s representative, Oscar Alvarado, lacks personal knowledge that
Plaintiff definitively accessed the electronic onboarding documents and has
failed to include evidence of the employee who witnessed Plaintiff purportedly
signing the document. (Id. at pg. 6) Furthermore, Plaintiff denies that
the agreement bears his signature or having been told to use one of Defendant’s
computers to complete the onboarding paperwork. (Ibid.; Cruz Decl. ¶¶
5-7.) Instead, Plaintiff claims that he went to Defendant’s office in Carson to
complete drug testing. (Cruz Decl. ¶ 7.) Based on a review of his only email
account, Plaintiff attests that he did not receive any confirmation that he
electronically completed the onboarding paperwork. (Id. at ¶ 8.) Thus.
Plaintiff asserts that there is a critical gap in the evidence supporting the
motion to prove that he actually signed the agreement. (Opposition at pg. 8,
relying on Ruiz v. Moss Bros. Auto Group, Inc. (2014) 232 Cal.App.4th
836, 842-843.) 
In reply, Defendant argues that the motion
should be granted because the arbitration agreement submitted within the moving
papers is valid and Plaintiff has failed to show that someone else had signed
the arbitration agreement on his behalf. (Reply at pp. 2-4.) However, the Court
is not persuaded by this reasoning. Plaintiff has denied signing the
arbitration agreement and attested that his personal email lacks proof of
completing the onboarding paperwork. (Cruz Decl. ¶¶ 6-8.) Moreover, Defendant’s
reliance on Mr. Alvarado’s declaration is insufficient to authenticate the
signature found on the arbitration agreement because it does not establish that
the purported signature was the act of the Plaintiff under Code of Civil
Procedure § 1633.9. Rather, it would have been more persuasive if Defendant
submitted the declaration of employee who was present during Plaintiff’s
onboarding process. 
Even if
Defendant met its burden in establishing the authenticity of the document, Plaintiff
has produced evidence to show that the signature was procured by fraud. (See Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities
Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394,
413-414 [determining that the burden then shifts to the resisting
party to prove by a preponderance of evidence a ground for denial (e.g., fraud, unconscionability, etc.)].)
To this extent, Plaintiff has submitted his own declaration, attesting that he
was asked to complete drug testing paperwork and was not directed to use
Defendant’s computer to fill out any onboarding paperwork. (Cruz Decl. ¶¶ 5-6.)
Thus, based on this evidence, there is an inference that Plaintiff was
potentially misled in what documents he had signed. It is noted that Defendant
have failed to submit any evidence in its reply to rebut this inference of
fraud.
Accordingly, the
Court denies Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration because the arbitration
agreement has not been properly authenticated and there is an inference the
signature was procured through fraudulent means. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
Based on the foregoing, Defendant AMPAM Parks Mechanical Inc.’s motion to
compel arbitration is denied.
Moving Party is ordered give notice to all
parties.