Here is the summary in YAML format:

```
Case Number: 24STCV18922
Plaintiff's Name: Carlos Boyd
Defendant's Name: Marcela Groves, et al. (U.S. Bank National Association)
People-Names: Carlos Boyd, Marcela Groves
Company-Names: U.S. Bank National Association
Places: Los Angeles
Dates: July 30, 2024, August 1, 2024, September 24, 2024, November 14, 2024
Events: Breach of contract, Demurrer, Hearing
Money: Damages
Intentions: Plaintiff seeks to recover damages for breach of contract, breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and fraudulent misrepresentation
Facts: Plaintiff alleges that he entered into an oral contract with U.S. Bank, but does not specify the terms of the contract or the alleged breach
Disputes: Plaintiff's complaint is subject to demurrer, which is sustained with leave to amend
Acts: Plaintiff has not alleged specific facts showing the elements of fraud
Agreements: None
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, Sections 430.10 and 430.30
Case Citations: Oasis West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal.4th 811, 821; Careau & Co. v. Security Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1394; Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Ctr. (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure, Section 430.10
Roles:
  - Judge: Ruling on demurrer
  - Plaintiff: Carlos Boyd, seeking recovery of damages
  - Defendant: Marcela Groves, et al. (U.S. Bank National Association), demurring to complaint
Significant Statements:
  - The Court sustains the demurrer to the complaint with leave to amend.
  - Plaintiff must plead the essential contract terms and facts showing Defendants' alleged breach.
  - Plaintiff's allegations do not sufficiently state a claim for breach of contract, breach of implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing, and fraudulent misrepresentation.
```

And here is a summary of the judge's tentative ruling in English text:

The judge has issued a tentative ruling on a demurrer filed by the defendants, Marcela Groves and U.S. Bank National Association, in a breach of contract case brought by plaintiff Carlos Boyd. The plaintiff's complaint alleges that the defendants conspired to deny him access to his funds and refused to adhere to the terms and conditions of the contract. The judge has sustained the demurrer with leave to amend, meaning that the plaintiff has 20 days to revise the complaint to address the deficiencies identified by the court.

The judge has identified several specific issues with the plaintiff's complaint. First, the plaintiff has not alleged the essential terms of the contract, including which terms were breached and how the breach caused him harm. Second, the plaintiff's allegations do not sufficiently state a claim for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Finally, the plaintiff's allegations of fraudulent misrepresentation are vague and lack specific facts showing the elements of fraud.

The judge has given the plaintiff an opportunity to amend the complaint to address these issues, but has also warned that the plaintiff must plead the essential facts and legal elements necessary to state a claim for relief.