 Case Number:  23STCP02227    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JOSHUA DAVID-HELDERMAN LAWLER, 
 
                                  Plaintiff,
  
         v.
 
 
ROBERT SPIETH, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  23STCP02227
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 14, 2024
 Calendar Number:  4



 
 
 
Defendants Robert Spieth (“Spieth”) and S&H Real Estate,
LLC (“S&H”) (collectively, “Defendants”) move for an order quashing the
subpoena issued by Plaintiff Joshua David-Helderman Lawler (“Plaintiff”) to
non-party Bank of America and entering a protective order barring Plaintiff
from seeking the documents and information requested therein. 
 
In the alternative, Defendants seek a protective order (1)
prohibiting production of  any banking
records relating to Spieth; (2) prohibiting production of any documents
relating to S&H which are not authorized by Corporations Code, section 17701.13,
subd. (d); and (3) limiting any production to a period from September 3, 2020
to September 3, 2024.
 
The Court DENIES the motion as to S&H’s bank records.
 
The Court GRANTS the motion IN PART as to Spieth’s bank
records.
 
Bank of America shall respond to Plaintiff’s subpoena of
Spieth’s records, with the following limitations:
 
Bank of America shall only produce bank statements.
 
Bank of America shall only produce statements from September
3, 2020 to September 3, 2024.
 
Bank of America shall redact Spieth’s personal information
from the production, including social security numbers, addresses, and other
identifying information that may exist in Spieth’s or S&H’s banking
records.
 
If, after obtaining the discovery authorized in this order,
Plaintiff has reason to believe that there is good cause for further discovery
into Spieth’s bank information, Plaintiff may seek leave of Court to obtain
further discovery.
 
Background
 
This case involves the dissolution of S&H and
Plaintiff’s claims related to the dissolution.
 
            Plaintiff
and Spieth founded S&H for the purpose of engaging in real estate
investment. Plaintiff owned a 20 percent interest in S&H and Spieth owned
an 80 percent interest.
 
            It
is not clear whether S&H is a manager-managed or member-managed LLC. 
 
            Plaintiff
alleges that Spieth converted funds belonging to S&H.
 
            Plaintiff
sought to obtain records of S&H which the Court has ruled that he was
entitled to receive as a member. S&H did not permit Plaintiff’s inspection
of the corporate records in question.
 
Plaintiff filed this action on June 23, 2023. The operative
complaint is now the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), which raises the
following claims: (1) petition for writ of mandate to produce corporate records
under Corporations Code, sections 17704.10, subd. (b)(1) and 17701.13, subd.
(d); (2) breach of fiduciary duties; (3) breach of contract; (4) breach of
implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (5) conversion; and (6)
judicial dissolution of limited liability company.
 
On June 18, 2024, the Court granted the petition for writ of
mandate. The Court awarded Plaintiff $44,728.40 in attorney’s fees against
Defendants jointly and severally. An abstract of judgment was issued on October
18, 2024. Defendants have not provided Plaintiff with the records or paid the
judgment.
 
On July 12, 2024, Plaintiff issued a deposition subpoena to
Bank of America and served Spieth with a Notice to Consumer informing him that
Plaintiff was seeking his bank records. Plaintiff similarly served a subpoena
with respect to S&H and issued S&H a Notice to Consumer.
 
Defendants filed this motion on August 21, 2024. Plaintiff
filed an opposition and Defendants filed a reply.
 
Evidentiary Objections
 
The Court has considered the parties’ evidentiary
objections. The Court overrules the parties’ evidentiary objections.
 
Legal Standard
 
“Unless otherwise limited by order of the court in
accordance with this title, any party may obtain discovery regarding any
matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the
pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if
the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably
calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Discovery may
relate to the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other
party to the action. Discovery may be obtained of the identity and location of
persons having knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the
existence, description, nature, custody, condition, and location of any
document, electronically stored information, tangible thing, or land or other
property.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.)
 
“ ‘Relevant evidence’ means evidence, including evidence
relevant to the credibility of a witness or hearsay declarant, having any
tendency in reason to prove or disprove any disputed fact that is of
consequence to the determination of the action.” (Evid. Code, § 210.)
 
If a subpoena requires the attendance of a witness or the
production of documents, the court may, upon motion reasonably made, make an
order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance
with it upon those terms or conditions as the court shall declare, including
protective orders. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)  
In making an order pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 1987.1, “the court may in its discretion award the amount of the
reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including
reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed
in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one or more of the
requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.2, subd.
(a).)  
 
Discussion
 
S&H’s Bank Information
 
“Because the corporate privacy right is not constitutionally
protected, the issue presented in determining whether [discovery requests for
corporate information] infringe that right is resolved by a balancing test. The
discovery's relevance to the subject matter of the pending dispute and whether
the discovery ‘ “appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence’ ” is balanced against the corporate right of privacy.
[Citation.] Doubts about relevance generally are resolved in favor of
permitting discovery.” (SCC Acquisitions, Inc. v. Superior Court (2015)
243 Cal.App.4th 741, 756.)
 
S&H’s bank records are relevant to Plaintiff’s claims.
Plaintiff alleges that Spieth improperly converted S&H’s funds to himself.
Plaintiff further alleges that Spieth and S&H improperly denied him access
to LLC records that he was owed access to as a member. S&H’s financial
records are directly relevant to both of these factual theories, which underly
a number of Plaintiff’s causes of action.
 
The requests are not overbroad. Plaintiff and Spieth
allegedly founded S&H together. Although the alleged denial of access to
records occurred more recently, Plaintiff contends that Spieth exclusively
managed S&H’s rental properties in secrecy and caused S&H to pay him a
management fee of 10 to 15 percent of the gross income generated by those
properties. The bank records speak directly to this issue, and obtaining
complete records will be important for establishing any damages. Furthermore,
because Defendants have not complied with the writ of mandate, Plaintiff cannot
rely on S&H’s own records to provide accurate financial information.
 
The Court therefore denies the motion as to S&H’s
records.
 
Spieth’s Bank Information
 
The party claiming invasion of a constitutional right of
privacy established in article 1, section 1 of the California Constitution must
show: (1) a legally protected privacy interest, (2) a reasonable expectation of
privacy under the circumstances, and (3) a serious invasion of the privacy
interest. (Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic 
Association (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1, 39-490.)
 
“Courts must […] place the burden on the party asserting a
privacy interest to establish its extent and the seriousness of the prospective
invasion, and against that showing must weigh the countervailing interests the
opposing party identifies [….] Only obvious invasions of interests fundamental
to personal autonomy must be supported by a compelling interest.” (Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.)
 
“It must be remembered that [Code of Civil Procedure,
section 1985.3] does not create a special privilege as to such records, but
merely creates a procedure under which the consumer will be apprised that a
litigant is seeking discovery of his personal records, and will be given an
opportunity to make a motion to quash the proposed subpoena.” (Sasson v.
Katash (1983) 146 Cal.App.3d 119, 124.)
 
“[T]he right of privacy extends to one’s confidential
financial affairs[.]” (Valley Bank of Nevada v. Superior Court (1975) 15
Cal.3d 652, 656.) And Spieth certainly has a reasonable expectation of privacy
in his bank account information, which is not ordinarily disclosed. The
invasion of privacy in question is significant – Plaintiff requests 22 years of
records, apparently covering the full lifespan of S&H.
 
The Court therefore believes that some limitations are
warranted. However, due to the high relevance of this information, the Court
will permit some discovery into Spieth’s bank records.
 
As discussed above, the records in question are relevant.
Plaintiff alleges that Spieth converted LLC funds to himself. Thus, discovery
into Spieth’s financial information is necessary in order to determine both
liability and damages.
 
Furthermore, Plaintiff is a judgment creditor against
Defendants in the amount of $44,728.40 in attorney’s fees. This judgment has
not been satisfied. “In preparation for the examination [of a judgment debtor],
discovery may be necessary as the actual examination is not so much a device to
gather information as it is a tool to confirm the existence of certain assets.
[Citation.] Thus, the use of a subpoena duces tecum to discover and inspect
relevant documents is an accepted practice. [Citation.]” (People v. Pereira
(1989) 207 Cal.App.3d 1057, 1066.)
 
It appears that there is also no alternate way for Plaintiff
to obtain this information. If money belong to S&H passed through Spieth’s
bank accounts, there will be no way to locate it aside from looking at Spieth’s
bank information. 
 
Defendants contend that Spieth’s privacy interest is
particularly strong since Spieth contests Plaintiff’s claims and the business
judgment rule shields Spieth form liability. However, a party may not avoid its
discovery obligations simply because it contests the opposing party’s claims. Similarly,
the issue of whether Spieth is shielded by the business judgment rule has not
been resolved.
 
Having considered the balance of Spieth’s privacy interest
against the need for discovery into the financial records, the Court rules as
follows.
 
Bank of America shall respond to Plaintiff’s subpoena of
Spieth’s records, with the following limitations:
 
Bank of America shall only produce bank statements.
 
Bank of America shall only produce statements from September
3, 2020 to September 3, 2024.
 
Bank of America shall redact Spieth’s personal information
from the production, including social security numbers, addresses, and other
identifying information that may exist in Spieth’s or S&H’s banking
records.
 
If, after obtaining the discovery authorized in this order,
Plaintiff has reason to believe that there is good cause for further discovery
into Spieth’s bank information, Plaintiff may seek leave of Court to obtain
further discovery.