  Case Number:  21STCV46389    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  72  
SUPERIOR COURT OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES
 
DEPARTMENT 72
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



PACIFIC GREEN, LLC, et al., 
 
                                  Plaintiffs,
  
         v.
 
 
PAUL FIORE, et al.,
 
                                  Defendants.
 


 Case No: 
  21STCV46389
 
 
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 14, 2024
 Calendar Number:  3



 
 
 
Plaintiffs Pacific Green, LLC (“Pacific Green”) and Big Tree
Holdings, LLC (“Big Tree”) (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) move for leave to file
a Sixth Amended Complaint (“6AC”).
 
The Court DENIES the motion.
 
Background
 
Factual Background
 
The following allegations are taken from the Fifth Amended
Complaint (“5AC”) except where otherwise noted.
 
This is an action between Plaintiffs Pacific Green and Big
Tree; and Defendants Paul Fiore (“Fiore”); One Eleven Advisors, LLC (“One
Eleven”) (collectively with Fiore, the “Fiore Parties”); Jay Rifkin (“Rifkin”),
Rebel Holdings LLC (“Rebel”) (collectively with Rifkin, the “Rifkin Parties”);
Alex Reyter (“Reyter”); Tudor Capital, LLC (“Tudor”) (collectively with Reyter,
the “Reyter Parties”)  Hills Group, LLC
(“Hills Group”); and Hills One LLC (“H. One LLC”) (collectively, “Defendants”).
 
This case arises out of a cannabis investment project gone
awry. In about 2017, Reyter, Fiore, and Rifkin (collectively, the “Principals”)
decided to enter the cannabidiol (“CBD”) market and seek investors. They formed
Hills Group. 
 
Additionally, Fiore owns and manages One Eleven; Rifkin owns
and manages Rebel; and Reyter manages Tudor.
 
Plaintiffs allege that the Principals did not have
experience, expertise, or connections in the CBD industry, and that they
therefore falsely represented themselves to investors as being highly
experienced and well-connected in the CBD industry in order to gain investors.
 
Around January or February 2018, Reyter began speaking with
Jacob Stein, the manager of both Plaintiffs Pacific Green and, eventually, Big
Tree. Over the course of the ensuing months, the Principals, primarily through
Reyter, allegedly made a number of false representations to Stein, including
that Hills Group and H. One LLC had received substantial investment, that the
principals had invested certain amounts of money in H. One LLC, that Hills
Group controlled other companies of certain values, that Hills Group owned an
industrial production plant in Oregon for its venture, and that the Principals
would all devote nearly all of their time to manage the venture.
 
Plaintiff Pacific Green was incorporated on April 3, 2018
and Plaintiff Big Tree was incorporated on June 13, 2018. (See Fiore’s Request
for Judicial Notice in Support of Demurrer to 4AC, Ex. 2, 3.)
 
On July 16, 2018, Pacific Green and Tree Holdings entered
into a written agreement with Hills Group entitled “Limited Liability Company
Agreement – Hills One, LLC” (the “Agreement”). (5AC ¶ 95, Ex. A.) This
Agreement provided for the governance of H. One LLC, which had been formed by
filing a certificate of formation shortly beforehand on March 29, 2018. (5AC,
Ex. A.)
 
Stein delivered an initial payment of $1 million in
investment funds from Plaintiffs to the Principals’ enterprise pursuant to the
Agreement. Pacific Green made additional payments of $1.7 million on September
28, 2018, $1 million on December 10, 2018, and $1 million on January 23, 2019.
 
Section 15.11 of the Agreement states, in part: “All issues
and questions concerning the application, construction, validity,
interpretation and enforcement of the Agreement shall be governed by and
construed in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Delaware…”
However, section 15.12 of the Agreement states, in part, that any “dispute,
claim or controversy, arising out of or relating to [the] Agreement and/or a
Member’s investment in the Company or in an investment opportunity or to the
rights, duties and obligations of the parties arising out of or relating to
this Agreement” (subd. b) “shall be determined in accordance with the
substantive laws of the State of California and the procedural laws of the
State of California…” (Subd. d.)
 
(5AC, Ex. A.)
 
Defendants’ enterprise generated almost no revenue.
 
Plaintiffs allege that the Principals failed to tend to the
day-to-day operations of H. One LLC or devote sufficient time to their
management duties. Plaintiffs allege that the Principals infrequently traveled
to Oregon. Plaintiffs allege that in 2019, Fiore and Rifkin reduced their work
for the business “to the point where they were more like passive investors than
active managers.” (4AC ¶ 152.)
 
Plaintiffs also allege a number of acts of mismanagement.
Plaintiffs allege that Rifkin usurped a number of hemp business opportunities
and took investment money for his own purposes or engaged in self-dealing on a
number of occasions.
 
Conversely, Defendants contend that the business failed
because a third-party supplier mistakenly shipped them a batch of CBD oil with
a THC content above the federal limit, resulting in the seizure of most of
their business assets by law enforcement. Defendants contend that Key
Compounds LLC v. Phasex Corporation (D. Or., Aug. 31, 2021, No.
6:20-CV-00680-AA) 2021 WL 3891586, at *3 lays out these facts. However, the
procedural posture of Key Compounds was that of a motion to dismiss,
where federal courts accept the pleaded facts as true, much like on a demurrer.
Thus, the Court could not rely on the Key Compounds court’s acceptance
of the facts of the facts as pleaded there in order to contradict the
allegations of the 4AC here, even assuming that consideration of the contents
of the decision would otherwise be proper.
 
Procedural History
 
Plaintiffs filed this action in the Los Angeles Superior
Court on December 20, 2021. On November 30, 2022, Plaintiffs filed a First
Amended Complaint (“1AC”). On December 12, 2022, Rebel filed a notice of
removal to federal court. The federal court granted pleading motions as to the
1AC, Second Amended Complaint (“2AC”), and Third Amended Complaint (“3AC”). 
 
Plaintiffs then filed the Fourth Amended Complaint (“4AC”),
naming all of the Moving Defendants as well as Reyter and Tudor. (Defendants
Reyter and Tudor are not among the parties who have filed demurrers.)  The 4AC raises claims for (1) fraud and
deceit; (2) negligent misrepresentations; (3) Civil RICO Violation under 18
U.S.C. §§ 1961, et seq.; (4) fraudulent inducement to enter into contract
(against all defendants except H. One LLC); (5) breach of contract (against
Hills Group); (6) negligence as a derivative claim (against Hills Group); (7)
conversion (against Fiore, Rifkin, Reyter, and Hills Group); and (8) aiding and
abetting torts.
 
On February 12, 2024, the federal court dismissed the RICO
claim and issued a notice of remand, returning the case to this Court.
 
On May 31, 2024, the Court sustained H. One LLC’s demurrer
to the 4AC claims against it without leave to amend. 
 
The Court sustained the demurrers of Fiore, One Eleven,
Rebel, Rifkin and Hills Group to the 4AC in part and with leave to amend. 
 
The Court overruled the demurrer to the claims for fraud and
deceit, negligent misrepresentation, and fraudulent inducement with respect to
Hills Group. The Court overruled the demurrer to the claims for breach of
contract and negligence with respect to all of the moving defendants. The Court
overruled the demurrer to the claim for conversion with respect to Hills Group
and Rifkin. 
 
The Court sustained, with leave to amend, the demurrer to
the claims for fraud and deceit, negligent misrepresentation, and fraudulent
inducement with respect to Fiore, One Eleven, Rebel, and Rifkin. The Court
sustained, with leave to amend, the demurrer to the conversion claim with
respect to Fiore, One Eleven, and Rebel. The Court sustained, with leave to
amend, the claim for aiding and abetting torts with respect to all of the
presently Moving Defendants.
 
            The
operative complaint is now the 5AC. The 5AC names H. One LLC as a nominal
defendant only, and names the remaining Defendants as well. The 5AC raises
claims for (1) fraud and deceit; (2) negligent misrepresentations; (3)
fraudulent inducement to enter into contract; (4) [listed as 5] breach of
contract (against Hills Group); (5) [listed as 6] negligence as a derivative
claim (against Hills Group); (6) [listed as 7] conversion (against Fiore,
Rifkin, Reyter, and Hills Group); and (7) [listed as 8] aiding and abetting
torts.
 
            On
September 26, 2024, the Court overruled the various Defendants’ demurrers to
the 5AC.
 
            On
October 11, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion for leave to amend.
 
            The
Reyter Parties filed an opposition. The Rifkin Parties and Hills Group jointly
filed a second opposition. The Fiore Parties join in both of the oppositions
filed by the other parties.. Plaintiff filed a single reply brief in response
to both oppositions.
 
Legal Standard
 
A complainant may obtain leave from the trial court to amend
their pleading beyond the number of amendments allowed under Code of Civil
Procedure section 472 (a) by filing a noticed motion. (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 3.1324.) The motion must be accompanied by a declaration stating: (1) the
effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary and proper; (3)
when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered; and (4)
why the request was not made earlier.¿(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1324 (b).)
 
“Any judge, at any time before or after commencement of
trial, in the furtherance of justice, and upon such terms as may be proper, may
allow the amendment of any pleading or pretrial conference order.”¿(Code Civ.
Proc., § 576.) In the absence of a showing of prejudice from the opposing side,
the trial court ordinarily lacks discretion to deny a motion to amend a
pleading. (Honig v. Financial Corp. of America (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 960,
965.) 
 
Discussion
 
Plaintiff seeks leave to amend to add a claim for civil
theft under Penal Code, section 496, subd. (c).
 
Background on Penal Code, Section 496(c)
 
Penal Code, section 496 provides that to sustain a
conviction for receiving stolen property, the plaintiff must prove (1) the
property was stolen; (2) the defendant knew the property was stolen; and, (3)
the defendant had possession of the stolen property. (People v. Land (1994)
30 Cal.App.4th 220, 223; Pen. Code, § 496.) “A principal in the actual theft of
the property may be convicted pursuant to this section.” (Pen. Code, § 496,
subd. (a).)
 
“Any person who has been injured by a violation of
subdivision (a) or (b) may bring an action for three times the amount of actual
damages, if any, sustained by the plaintiff, costs of suit, and reasonable
attorney’s fees.” (Pen. Code, § 496, subd. (c).)
 
Section 496(c)’s applicability to investment fraud was
determined relatively recently in 2022.
 
In Switzer v. Wood (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th 116, the
plaintiff sued for misappropriated distributions that the defendant owed to him
in their joint business venture. (Switzer v. Wood (2019) 35 Cal.App.5th
116, 121.) The jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff on his civil claim for
violation of section 496. (Ibid.) The Court of Appeal stated that “it is
undisputed that the jury specifically and unequivocally found all the factual
elements necessary to establish that Wood and Access Medical had engaged in
conduct constituting a violation of section 496(a).” (Id. at p.
127.) The court stated that the jury’s factual findings “clearly establish
violation(s) of section 496(a).” (Id. at p. 128.) The trial court’s
position, which the Court of Appeal rejected, was “that section 496(c) should
not be applied in a literal manner because the Legislature could not have
intended to extend the statutory treble damage remedy into the context of an
ordinary business dispute where traditional remedies for breach of contract,
fraud and conversion were available. Rather, it is argued that despite the
clear and unambiguous wording of the statutory provision, a narrower
construction should be adopted to avoid absurdity, such as a construction that
limits treble damages to theft crimes involving common carriers’ cargo.” (Id.
at p. 128.) The court stated that “[t]he wording of the statute makes no
exception for cases involving preexisting business relationships, nor does it
limit applicability to violations involving common carriers or truck cargo, and
we are not at liberty to insert such omitted terms into the statute.” (Id.
at pp. 129-130.) “Based on the plain wording of section 496(c), the Legislature
apparently believed that any violation of section 496(a) (or of
subdivision (b)), if proven, would warrant the availability of treble damages
…. The fact that the treble damage remedy may come into play where (as here)
the parties were in a preexisting business relationship in which the remedies
at law have traditionally been limited (e.g., for fraud, conversion or breach
of contract)—while arguably a valid policy argument—manifestly falls short of
establishing the absurdity exception.” (Id. at p. 130 [emphasis in
original].)
 
            Siry
Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour further solidified the applicability of
section 496 to shareholder distribution claims. The California Supreme Court
stated that the case concerned “whether a trial court may award treble damages
and attorney's fees under Penal Code section 496, subdivision (c) in a case
involving, not trafficking of stolen goods, but instead, fraudulent diversion
of a partnership's cash distributions. ….
We answer yes[.]” (Siry
Investment, L.P. v. Farkhondehpour (2022) 13 Cal.5th 333, 339.) The Supreme
Court stated that “[v]iewing the issue independently as a matter of law, we
endorse the analysis of Bell and Switzer — even though, at the
same time, we acknowledge that some of the policy considerations highlighted in
those cases, and elaborated upon by the appellate court below, give pause.
Fundamentally, we agree with the conclusions of Bell and Switzer
that section 496(c) is unambiguous, and that read together with sections 496(a)
and 484, and in conformity with our standard approach to interpretation
[citation], section 496(c) must be understood as yielding the understanding
attributed to it in those decisions: A plaintiff may recover treble damages and
attorney's fees under section 496(c) when property has been obtained in any
manner constituting theft.” (Id. at p. 361.)
 
The Court believes that Switzer, standing alone,
would have supported a section 496 claim. However, the law was not entirely
clear. The Court of Appeal in Siry Investment found that section 496 did
not apply. (Siry Investment, L.P., supra, 13 Cal.5th at p. 342.)
Thus, until Siry Investment, whether an investor could bring a claim
under section 496(c) was a live issue.
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion
 
Plaintiffs’ section 496 claim is based on the same
underlying facts as their conversion and fraud claims. These are facts that,
for the most part, Plaintiff has had access to since the beginning of this
litigation in December 2021, almost three years ago. Siry Investment was
decided on July 21, 2022, more than two years ago. Plaintiffs have filed four
different amended complaints in the time since Siry Investment was
issued. Plaintiffs’ counsel declares that he only recently learned about the
existence of Siry Investment from another attorney. (Crawford Decl. ¶
5.) 
 
“There is a platoon of authority to the effect that a long
unexcused delay is sufficient to uphold a trial judge's decision to deny the
opportunity to amend pleadings[.]” (Green v. Rancho Santa Margarita Mortgage
Co. (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 686, 692.) “[E]ven if a good amendment is
proposed in proper form, unwarranted delay in presenting it may—of itself—be a
valid reason for denial.” (Melican v. Regents of University of California
(2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 168, 175 [quotation marks and citations omitted].) Leave
to amend may be properly denied where the party seeking leave “had knowledge of
the circumstances on which [it] based the amended complaint … almost three
years before he sought leave to amend.” (Record v. Reason (1999) 73
Cal.App.4th 472, 486-487.) 
 
Plaintiffs contend that “although the case has been pending
for almost three years (and two years since the Siry Investment decision)
the case is still effectively at the front end of the litigation” and that
“[a]lmost no discovery has been conducted in the case due to a variety of
factors, including long periods when discovery was stayed by court order or
procedural rules beyond the parties’ control.” (Motion at p. 9:1-7.) 
 
This is not the full story. This case went through a
substantial period of merits discovery while in federal court, during which
Defendants made an initial production of 25,163 pages of documents on November
1, 2023. Furthermore, on October 25, 2024, nearly a year later, Plaintiff’s
counsel emailed David Azar, counsel for Hills Group and the Rifkin Parties,
requesting that the electronic links to the document production be turned back
on. (Azar Decl. ¶ 4.) It thus appears that Plaintiffs’ counsel did not download
the document production that they did receive.
 
            The
Court determines that there has been substantial, unjustified delay in
asserting Plaintiff’s new claim. The Court also finds that this delay has
caused prejudice under the facts of this case. 
 
            The
delay has caused the parties (as well as the Court) to spend substantial
resources that would now be unnecessarily multiplied by further proceedings if
an amendment were allowed.  Since this
case was remanded from federal court, it has proceeded through two sets of
demurrers, to the fourth and fifth amended complaints. Due to the multiplicity
of defendants, three demurrers were filed against the 4AC and two against the
5AC. The 4AC was 40 pages in length and contained an additional 54 pages of
exhibits. The 5AC is 45 pages in length with the same exhibits. Hundreds of
pages of documents were filed in connection with the demurrers to each of these
complaints. Resolving these disputes consumed a great degree of judicial
resources and, presumably, an even greater deal of attorney resources. Had
Plaintiffs timely added these claims, they would have been dealt with more
efficiently as part of this process.
 
There has also been a pattern of piecemeal amendment by the Plaintiffs.
Here, there have been five prior amendments to the complaint in less than three
years, including repeated cycles of demurrers or motions to dismiss. Further,
Plaintiffs have already delayed in asserting known claims – although Reyter was
alleged to be the primary wrongdoer, Reyter was not added as a defendant until
the fourth amended complaint.
 
Leave to amend need not be granted to reward “an inefficient
and piecemeal approach to litigation”, even where amendment “only adds legal
theories of recovery to facts already alleged in the first amended complaint,
and … these legal theories were part of the litigation for years”. (Bidari
v. Kelk (2023) 90 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1173.) In Bidari, the Court
denied leave to amend to add claims which the plaintiffs had previously
withdrawn, where the plaintiffs argued that “permitting amendment would not
cause delay, because these causes of action have already survived demurrers and
anti-SLAPP motions, which might otherwise be brought immediately following
amendment.” (Id. at pp. 1173-1174.) The Court observed that “it is
inherently inefficient to permit a plaintiff to hold partially litigated claims
waiting in the wings until the plaintiff deems it strategically convenient to
resurrect them. Such inefficiency will inevitably cause some delay.” (Id.
at p. 1174.)
 
The same inefficiency appears here. Although Plaintiff
contends that the addition of a new claim, and any resulting objections to it,
will not result in a higher marginal resource cost compared to if this had been
handled in a single iteration of the complaint, the Court disagrees. There are
substantial ‘transaction costs’ associated with the process of litigating a
demurrer. Requests for judicial notice must be marshalled, briefs must be
organized (and in this case, coordinated between the various defendants),
introductions and fact statements must be written, hearings must be attended,
and filing fees must be paid. The Court must review evolving complaints and
demurrers and conduct additional hearings. 
Each successive demurrer must be noticed and briefed on its full
timeline, delaying the resolution of the case by months. An ‘extreme’ example
illustrates this point – ten demurrers to one claim each will necessarily take
more time for the attorneys and court to handle than one demurrer to ten
claims. The problem is that this example is not actually extreme here. Four
motions to dismiss were filed against the 4AC in federal court. Three demurrers
were filed against the 4AC in this Court. Two demurrers were filed against the
5AC. Between the last two iterations of the complaint – of six iterations total
– nine demurrers or demurrer-equivalents were litigated.
 
In arguing that this pattern of amendment does not warrant
denial, Plaintiff contends that “when the Court ruled on sufficiency of the
Fifth Amended Complaint it was the first time in the case when a court had
actually reached the legal sufficiency of Plaintiffs’ factual allegations or
legal claims.” (Reply at p. 4:18-20.) That is not fully accurate. This Court
ruled on the sufficiency of Plaintiff’s claims in resolving the three demurrers
to the 4AC. Furthermore, the federal court ruled on the sufficiency of
Plaintiff’s RICO claim, finding that cannabis-related businesses were not
protected by RICO. (Fiore Request for Judicial Notice in Support of Demurrer to
4AC, Ex. 5 at p. 11:4-12, 13:6-8.) That ruling was the reason that this case
was remanded from federal court.
 
Defendants appear to contend that Plaintiffs have engaged in
a broad strategy of maximizing burden on opposing counsel and increasing the
resources that must be spent by Defendants. The Court is not prepared to make
such a finding without clearer evidence and explanation on what Defendants mean
by this. However, even absent such a finding, the Court determines that
granting leave to amend would be unduly prejudicial to Defendants and would not
be in the interest of justice.
 
The Court denies leave to amend.