 Case Number:  22STCV10036    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  47 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Theresa M. Traber, Department 47
 
 
HEARING DATE:     December 5, 2024                  TRIAL DATE: January
7, 2025
                                                           
CASE:                         Bruce Dwain Copeland v. Amy Pham
 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV10036            
 
MOTION FOR RECONSIDERATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Bruce Dwain Copeland, in propria persona
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Defendant Amy Pham
 
CASE
HISTORY:
·        
03/23/22: Complaint filed.
·        
03/14/23: First Amended Complaint filed.
·        
05/24/23: Plaintiff deemed vexatious litigant.
·        
07/05/23: Notice of Appeal filed. 
 
STATEMENT
OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:
            
            This is an action for quiet
title and injunctive relief. Plaintiff contends that Defendant is fraudulently
claiming ownership of the property in which Plaintiff resides and which he
contends he owns.
 
Plaintiff moves for reconsideration
of the Court’s October 30, 2024 ruling denying Plaintiff’s premature Motion to
Deem the Truth of Matters Stated in Requests for Admissions as Admitted. 
            
TENTATIVE RULING:
 
Plaintiff moves for reconsideration
of the Court’s October 30, 2024 ruling denying Plaintiff’s premature Motion to
Deem the Truth of Matters Stated in Requests for Admissions as Admitted. 
 
            Motions for reconsideration are
governed by Code of Civil Procedure section 1008. This statute provides, in
relevant part:
 
(a) When an
application for an order has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused
in whole or in part, or granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any
party affected by the order may, within 10 days after service upon the party of
written notice of entry of the order and based upon new or different facts,
circumstances, or law, make application to the same judge or court that
made the order, to reconsider the matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior
order. The party making the application shall state by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts, circumstances, or law are claimed
to be shown.
 
* * *
 
(d) A violation
of this section may be punished as a contempt and with sanctions as allowed by
Section 128.7. In addition, an order made contrary to this section may be
revoked by the judge or commissioner who made it, or vacated by a judge of the
court in which the action or proceeding is pending.
 
(e) This section
specifies the court’s jurisdiction with regard to applications for
reconsideration of its orders and renewals of previous motions, and applies to
all applications to reconsider any order of a judge or court, or for the
renewal of a previous motion, whether the order deciding the previous matter or
motion is interim or final. No application to reconsider any order or for the
renewal of a previous motion may be considered by any judge or court unless
made according to this section.
 
(Code
Civ. Proc. § 1008(a), (d), (e) (bold emphasis added).) No affidavit was
provided with this motion, and, for that reason alone, the Court would be
empowered to deny the motion pursuant to subdivision (a). That said, Plaintiff’s
moving papers contain a sufficiently plain statement of the issues that the Court
will address the merits of the motion. 
 
            On October 30, 2024, the Court
denied Plaintiff’s Motion to Deem the Truth of Matters Stated in Requests for
Admissions on the grounds that (1) Plaintiff did not demonstrate that he had properly
served either the underlying requests or the motion itself and (2) Plaintiff’s
motion was premature because it was filed only 11 days after the requests were
purportedly served, not 30 days as required by statute. 
 
            Plaintiff asserts that the Court’s October 30 ruling was in error because
the Defendant had not served responses to the Requests for Admissions before
the October 30 hearing. There was no error. Code of Civil Procedure section
2033.280 subdivision (b) authorizes the propounding party to move to deem the
truth of the matters stated in the requests for admissions if the party to whom
the requests are directed “fails
to serve a timely response[.]”
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280 [emphasis added].) Code of Civil Procedure section
2033.250 states that the party to whom the requests are directed has 30 days
from service of the requests to respond. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.250(a).) Plaintiff,
by filing his motion merely 11 days after the date he purports to have served
the requests, did not provide Defendant the 30 days to respond to which she was
entitled by law, and Defendant therefore did not fail to serve a timely
response to the requests. Consequently, Plaintiff was not entitled to an order
deeming the truth of the matters stated in the requests based on his premature
and procedurally improper motion. 
 
            Accordingly, Plaintiff’s Motion for
Reconsideration is DENIED. 
 
            Moving
Party to give notice.
 
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
Dated December 5, 2024                                ___________________________________
                                                                                    Theresa
M. Traber
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 

            Any party may submit on the
tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept47@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day
before the hearing. All interested parties must be copied on the email. It
should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still
conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you
have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you
should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an
order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.
 