 Case Number:  22STCV8869    Hearing Date:   December 17, 2024    Dept:  27 Hon. Lee S. Arian, Dept 27 
 
MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
Hearing Date: 12/16/24¿ 
CASE NO./NAME: 22STCV28869 WENDY ARIAS vs
12306 GALE, LLC
Moving Party: Defendant 12306 Gale, LLC
Responding Party: Plaintiff¿ 
Notice: Sufficient¿ 
Ruling: MOTIONS ARE MOOT BUT SANCTIONS GRANTED
 
These motions concern
Defendant’s Request for Admissions, set one, and Requests for Documents, set
one. The parties do not dispute that Plaintiff provided further responses. The
motions are therefore moot. However, Defendant contends that because the motions
were served after the moving party filed their motions to compel further, the
issue of sanctions remains. Plaintiff makes a number of arguments why sanctions
are not appropriate, including, among others, that separate statements were not
provided and no meet and confer efforts were made.  The Court is unpersuaded by these arguments.,
Sanctions are appropriate to compensate defense counsel for having drafted the
motion. Defendant requests sanctions in the amount of $760 per motion.  Given that the motions are simple and somewhat
duplicative, the Court grants sanctions of $1,000.  Sanctions are ordered against Plaintiff and
her counsel, jointly and severally, payable to Defendant within 20 days from
today.
 
PLEASE TAKE NOTICE:
 
If a party
intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party
must send an email to the court at sscdept27@lacourt.org with the
Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number.  The body of
the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact
information, and the identity of the party submitting.
 
Unless all parties
submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear
remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument.  You should
assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue.
 
If the
parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off
calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  After the
Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of
the subject motion without leave.
 