  Case Number:  24NNCP00161    Hearing Date:   September 13, 2024    Dept:  P [TENTATIVE]
ORDER GRANTING PETITIONER’S PETITION TO CONFIRM ARBITRATION AWARDI.        BACKGROUND
          On April 22, 2024, Petitioner Bill Me Later, Inc. filed a
petition to confirm an arbitration award rendered in its favor, and against respondents
My Rx Pharmacy, Inc. d/b/a My RX Pharmacy and Tigran Silah on November 16,
2023. 
          Before the court is Petitioner’s petition to confirm the
arbitration award. The petition is granted as it satisfies all of the
requirements.
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD
 
          “Any party to an arbitration in which
an award has been made may petition the court to confirm, correct or vacate the
award.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.) If a party duly serves and files a petition
under section 1285, “the court shall confirm the award as made, whether
rendered in this state or another state, unless in accordance with this chapter
it corrects the award and confirms it as corrected, vacates the award or
dismisses the proceeding.” (Id., § 1286.) 
Confirmation of the award is
mandatory unless a response or petition to correct or vacate the award has been
timely filed. (See id.; Valsan Partners Limited Partnership v. Calcor
Space Facility, Inc. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 809, 818.) “The scope
of judicial review of arbitration awards is extremely narrow. Courts may not
review the merits of the controversy, the sufficiency of the evidence
supporting the award, or the validity of the arbitrator's reasoning. . . .
Indeed, with limited exceptions, ‘an arbitrator's decision is not generally
reviewable for errors of fact or law, whether or not such error appears on the
face of the award and causes substantial injustice to the parties.’” (Dept.
of Personnel Administration v. California Correctional Peace Officers Ass'n¿
(2007) 152 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1200.) 
          III. ANALYSIS
1.     Notice
A petition to confirm an award shall
be served and filed not later than four years after the date of service of a
signed copy of the award on the
petitioner. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1288.) No
petition may be served and filed until at least 10 days after service of the
signed copy of the award upon petitioner. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1288.4.) 
           “A
copy of the petition and a written notice of the time and place of the hearing
thereof and any other papers upon which the petition is based shall be served
in the manner provided in the arbitration agreement for the service of such
petition and notice; but if the arbitration agreement does not provide the
manner in which such service shall be made and the person upon whom service is
to be made has not previously appeared in the proceeding and has not previously
been served, the Petition must be served within California in the manner
provided by law for the service of summons in an action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1290.4.)
          Here, the
arbitration agreement provides for no method of service. Petitioner filed
proofs of service indicating that its initial notice of motion and moving
papers were served on Respondents in the manner of a summons.
          Petitioner
subsequently amended its notice of motion to reflect a later hearing date. Further,
this matter was continued from July 29, 2024 to allow Petitioner serve upon
Respondents notice of the continued hearing date in the manner of a summons.
          Petitioner filed proof of service by
mail on August 29, 2024. CCP section 415.30 allows service by mail if the
summons and complaint is sent with two copies of a notice and acknowledgement
and a return envelope. The proof of service has notices and acknowledgments of
receipt attached that are signed by Respondents’ counsel. As such, notice is
proper. Petitioner thus
complies with Code of Civil Procedure 1290.4
The petition also complies with
sections 1288 and 1288.4. 
There is no response to the petition,
which would be due within 30 days after service of the petition. (Code Civ.
Proc. §¿1290.6.)  
Notice is thus proper.
 
2.     Substance
of Petition 
The contents of a petition to confirm
an arbitration award shall set forth the substance of or have attached a copy
of the agreement to arbitrate, the names of the arbitrators, and shall set
forth or have attached a copy of the award and the written opinion of the
arbitrators.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1285.4.) 
 
Petitioner has complied with Code of
Civil Procedure, section 1285.4. The agreement to arbitrate is contained in the
parties’ Paypal Business Loan Agreement, which is attached to the petition.
(Petition, ¶ 4; Attach. 4(b), ¶ 28.)  The arbitration was conducted by
Arbitrator Michael S. Tudor. (Id., ¶ 6; Attach. 8(c).) A copy of the
arbitration award and written opinion is attached to the petition. (Id.) 
 
Despite notice of the motion,
Respondents have not filed an opposition setting forth grounds to vacate the
award under Code of Civil Procedure, section 1286. 
 
Petitioner
is thus entitled to confirmation of the arbitration award. 
 
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          The petition to confirm the arbitration award is GRANTED.
          
Dated: September 13, 2024                            
                                                                              JARED D. MOSES JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT
                                                                     