  Case Number:  20SMUD00869    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


March 27, 2024




CASE NUMBER


20SMUD00869




MOTIONS


Motions to be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY


Cynthia A. de Petris, Esq.




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
MOTION
 
            Cynthia A. de Petris, Esq. of the
Law Offices of Cynthia A. de Petris, counsel for Defendants Briggita Lauren and
Eric K. Yohan (“Counsel”) moves to be relived as counsel, citing an “impasse”
and “breakdown” between Counsel and Defendants. 
Defendants Briggita Lauren and Eric K. Yohan (“Defendants”) have each
filed an opposition.
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 284 provides “[t]he attorney in an
action or special proceeding may be changed at any time before or after
judgment or final determination as follows: 1. Upon the consent of both client
and attorney, filed with the clerk, or entered in the minutes; 2. Upon the
order of the court, upon the application of either client or attorney, after
notice from one to the other.”
 
Procedural Requirements
 
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1362, requires:
 
(1) the motion must be made on
form MC-051; (subd. (a)); 
 
(2) it must be accompanied by
a declaration on form MC-052 stating why the motion is brought under Code of
Civil Procedure section 284(2) instead of a consent brought under section
284(1); (subd. (c));
 
(3) a proposed order on form
MC-053 must be lodged with the court, specifying all hearing dates scheduled in
the action or proceeding, including the date of trial, if known; (subd. (e));
and 
 
(4) The documents must be
served on the client and on all parties that have appeared in the case. (subd.
(d).)
 
If
the notice is served by mail or electronic service, it must be accompanied by a
declaration indicating that the address served is the current address, or in
the case of service by mail, that it was served on the last known address and a
more current address could not be located after reasonable efforts within 30
days before filing the motion.  (Ibid.)  The court may delay the effective date of the
order relieving counsel until proof of service of a copy of the signed order on
the client has been filed with the court.” 
(Ibid.)  
 
Substantive Requirements
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(a) outlines the reasons a
lawyer must withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client is bringing an action, conducting a defense, asserting a position in
litigation, or taking an appeal, without probable cause and for the purpose of
harassing or maliciously injuring any person;
 
(2)   the
representation will result in violation of the Rules of Professional Conduct or
the State Bar Act;
 
(3)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it unreasonably difficult to
carry out the representation effectively; or
 
(4)   the
client discharges the lawyer.
 
Rules of Professional Conduct, rule 1.16(b) outlines the reasons a
lawyer may withdraw from representation of a client:
 
(1)   the
client insists upon presenting a claim or defense in litigation, or asserting a
position or making a demand in a non-litigation matter, that is not warranted
under existing law and cannot be supported by good faith argument for an
extension, modification, or reversal of existing law;
 
(2)   the
client either seeks to pursue a criminal or fraudulent course of conduct or has
used the lawyer’s services to advance a course of conduct that the lawyer
reasonably believes was a crime or fraud;
 
(3)   the
client insists that the lawyer pursue a course of conduct that is criminal or
fraudulent;
 
(4)   the
client by other conduct renders it unreasonably difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(5)   the
client breaches a material term of an agreement with, or obligation, to the
lawyer relating to the representation, and the lawyer has given the client a
reasonable warning after the breach that the lawyer will withdraw unless the
client fulfills the agreement or performs the obligation;
 
(6)   the
client knowingly and freely assents to termination of the representation;
 
(7)   the
inability to work with co-counsel indicates that the best interests of the
client likely will be served by withdrawal;
 
(8)   the
lawyer’s mental or physical condition renders it difficult for the lawyer to
carry out the representation effectively;
 
(9)   a
continuation of the representation is likely to result in a violation of these
rules or the State Bar Act; or
 
(10)        
the lawyer believes in good faith in a proceeding
pending before a tribunal that the tribunal will find the existence of other
good cause for withdrawal.
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Counsel has filed forms MC-051,
MC-052, and MC-053 for each Defendant. 
The attorney declarations (MC-052) indicate that the motion was filed instead
of filing a consent because “Client and I have reached an impasse, which
creates a breakdown mandating my release from this case.  I cannot provide any additional information
without violating the attorney-client privilege.”  As such, the Court finds that the motion is
substantively proper.  (See Rules Prof.
Conduct, rule 1.16(b)(4).)  
 
            Defendants have each objected,
indicating, “due to being on limited Social Security income and the
responsibility of supporting two small children we have faced payment
challenges.  She should and will be paid
for her work in full. We have filed a fee waiver in this case due to hardship.”
 
            However, while the Court is
sensitive to Defendants’ stated financial difficulties, Defendants’ objections
do not undermine the fact that Counsel’s motions are both procedurally and
substantively proper.  
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants both Motions to be Relieved as Counsel.  Counsel must serve the signed order (form
MC-053), which shall include information about all future hearings and
proceedings noticed by any party, or ordered by the Court, on Defendants and
all other parties who have appeared in the action, within 10 days of the date
of this Order, and file a proof of service of such.  Counsel will remain the attorney of record
for Defendants until Counsel files the requisite proof of service.  (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1362(e).)  
 
 
            
 
 
DATED:  March 27, 2024                                          ___________________________
                                                                              Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                              Judge
of the Superior Court
 