 Case Number:  23SMCV04868    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


March 27, 2024




CASE NUMBER


23SMCV04868




MOTION


Demurrer 




MOVING PARTIES


Defendants Vicky Boladian and Boladian Aviation Law Group,
  APC




OPPOSING PARTIES


Plaintiffs Stephen R. Hofer; Stephen R. Hofer Law Corporation
  d/b/a Aerlex Law Group; Aerlex Tax Services, LLC; Aerlex Tax Services, LLP



 
MOTION
 
This case arises from a dispute between former business partners.  Plaintiffs Stephen R. Hofer; Stephen R. Hofer
Law Corporation d/b/a Aerlex Law Group; Aerlex Tax Services, LLC; and Aerlex
Tax Services, LLP (“Plaintiffs”) brought suit against Defendants Vicky Boladian
and Boladian Aviation Law Group, APC (“Defendants”) alleging thirteen causes of
action: (1) breach of contract – settlement agreement; (2) breach of contract –
operating agreement and buy-sell agreement; (3) breach of implied covenant of
good faith and fair dealing; (4) breach of fiduciary duty; (5) intentional
misrepresentation; (6) fraud in the inducement; (7) wrongful dissociation; (8)
conversion; (9) intentional interference with contractual relations; (10)
computer data access and fraud act; (11) receiving stolen property; (12)
unlawful business practices; and (13) declaratory relief.
 
Defendants demur to the first, second, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth,
ninth, tenth, and eleventh causes of action on the grounds that they fail to
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action, pursuant to Code of
Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (e).
 
Plaintiffs oppose the demurrer and Defendants reply.
 
MEET
AND CONFER REQUIREMENT
 
            Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a) requires that “Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”  
 
The statute further requires “As part of the meet and confer process,
the demurring party shall identify all of the specific causes of action that it
believes are subject to demurrer and identify with legal support the basis of
the deficiencies.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)  “The party who
filed the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer shall provide legal support for
its position that the pleading is legally sufficient or, in the alternative,
how the complaint, cross-complaint, or answer could be amended to cure any
legal insufficiency.”  (Ibid.)
 
“The parties shall meet and confer at least five days before the date
the responsive pleading is due.  (Code
Civ. Proc. § 430.41, subd. (a)(2).)  “The
demurring party shall file and serve with the demurrer a declaration stating
either” the means by which the parties met and conferred, or that the party who
filed the pleading subject to demurrer failed to respond to the meet and confer
request.  (Id., subd.
(a)(3).)  
 
“If the parties are not able to meet and confer at least 5 days before
the date the responsive pleading is due, the demurring party shall be granted
an automatic 30-day extension of time within which to file a responsive
pleading, by filing and serving, on or before the date on which a demurrer
would be due, a declaration stating under penalty of perjury that a good faith
attempt to meet and confer was made and explaining the reasons why the parties
could not meet and confer.”  (Id.,
subd. (a)(2).)
 
On December 7, 2023, Defendants’ counsel filed a Declaration of
Demurring or Moving Party in Support of Automatic Extension, explaining that
counsel was unable to meet and confer due to having to address Plaintiffs’
voluminous motion for preliminary injunction and due to trial preparation in
another case.
 
In support of the demurrer, counsel filed another declaration
indicating, “On January 2, 2024, I sent an email to Plaintiffs’ attorney, Amy
L. Nashon, with a detailed outline for the arguments that I planned to raise in
the demurrer.  Ms. Nashon responded by
informing me that Plaintiffs would oppose the demurrer and that they were not
going to file an amended complaint. 
(Sohal Dec. ¶ 2.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiffs contend that, contrary to the declaration in
support of automatic extension, which indicates, “I made a good faith attempt
to meet and confer with the party who filed the pleading at least five days
before the date the responsive pleading was due[,]” Defendants’ counsel did not
actually attempt to meet and confer until January 2.  Plaintiffs also seek sanctions under Code of
Civil Procedure section 128.5 in the amount of $8,449, counsel’s fees to
prepare the opposition.
 
The Court agrees that Defendants do not meet the criteria for an automatic
extension, which is granted only if the parties made a good faith attempt to
meet and confer.  By contrast, counsel’s
declaration explains, “Due to my unusually busy schedule in the month of
November, and Plaintiffs' rushed filing of a preliminary injunction motion, I
was unable to complete my analysis of Plaintiffs' Complaint and meet and confer
with Plaintiffs' counsel regarding Defendants' demurrer. I plan on completing
the meet and confer within a week or so of the date of this declaration.”  Thus, counsel’s declaration makes clear that
counsel could not have made a good faith attempt to meet and confer because
counsel did not have time to properly review the complaint.  
 
Because Defendants do not meet the criteria for an automatic
extension, and Defendants did not otherwise obtain an extension, either from
Plaintiffs or from the Court, Defendants’ demurrer is untimely, and therefore procedurally
improper.  
 
SANCTIONS
 
            “A trial court may order a party,
the party’s attorney, or both, to pay the reasonable expenses, including
attorney’s fees, incurred by another party as a result of actions or tactics,
made in bad faith, that are frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary
delay.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 128.5, subd.
(a).)  
 
            “If the alleged action or tactic is
the making or opposing of a written motion or the filing and service of […]
other responsive pleading that can be withdrawn or appropriately corrected, a
notice of motion shall be served as provided in Section 1010, but shall not be
filed with or presented to the court, unless 21 days after service of the
motion or any other period as the court may prescribe, the challenged action or
tactic is not withdrawn or appropriately corrected.”  (Id., subd. (f)(1)(B).)  
 
            Plaintiffs request sanctions for
counsel’s “false misrepresentations under oath representing that a good faith
attempt to meet and confer had been made where none actually occurred.”  (Opp. at p. 2.)  Defendants oppose, arguing that there is no
false misrepresentation and that Plaintiffs failed to comply with the mandatory
21-day safe harbor requirements of 
Section
128.5.    
 
“[T]he law requires strict compliance with the safe harbor
provisions.  Failure to comply with the
safe harbor provisions precludes an award of sanctions.”  (Transcon Financial, Inc. v. Reid &
Hellyer, APC (2022) 81 Cal.App.5th 547, 551 [cleaned up].)
 
Here, Plaintiff has not demonstrated compliance with the 21-day safe
harbor provision.  Therefore, the Court
cannot award Plaintiff’s requested sanctions. 
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Because Defendants do not satisfy the criteria for an automatic 30-day
extension, and did not otherwise obtain an extension, either from Plaintiffs or
the Court, the Court overrules the demurrer in its entirety as untimely.  Because the Court overrules the demurrer on
procedural grounds, and does not reach the merits, the Court similarly denies
Defendants’ Request for Judicial Noice as moot. 

 
The Court also denies Plaintiff’s request for sanctions, as
procedurally improper.
 
Further, the Court orders Defendants to file an Answer to the Complaint
on or before April 16, 2024.
 
Defendants shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service regarding the same.  
 
 
DATED:  March 27, 2024                                                      ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court