 Case Number:  22SMCV00767    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


March 27, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV00767




MOTION


Motion to Be Admitted Pro Hac Vice




MOVING PARTY


Richard C. Ebeling, Esq., counsel for Plaintiff 27715 PCH
  LLC




OPPOSING PARTY


(none)



 
 
MOTION
 
Richard C. Ebeling (“Counsel”) has filed a motion to appear as counsel
pro hac vice for Plaintiff 27715 PCH LLC (“Plaintiff”).  The motion is unopposed.
 
ANALYSIS
 
            California Rules of Court rule 9.40
provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may apply to
appear as counsel pro hac vice in the State of California by filing a verified
application together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the application
and notice of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case and on the
State Bar of California at its San Francisco office, with payment of a $50.00
fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of the State of California, and
is not regularly engaged in substantial business, professional, or other
activities in the State of California. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40.)
 
The application must state: (1) the applicant’s residence and office
addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been admitted to practice
and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member of good standing
in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently suspended or disbarred
in any court; (5) the title of each court and cause in which the applicant has
filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice in this state in the
preceding two years, the date of each application, and whether or not it was
granted; and (6) the name, address, and telephone number of the active member
of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record in the local action.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).)
 
            The Court finds that Counsel has
provided all this information in the Declaration of Richard C. Ebeling.  With regard to notice on to the State Bar, Counsel
has indicated that the State Bar was electronically served with this renewed
notice of motion and motion, notice of hearing, and proposed order (Ebeling
Decl. ¶ 12 and Ex. E.)
 
However, this is insufficient to demonstrate compliance with California Rules of Court, Rule
9.40(c).  Rule 9.40(c)(1) provides:  “A person desiring to appear as counsel pro
hac vice in a superior court must file with the court a verified application
together with proof of service by mail in accordance with Code of
Civil Procedure section 1013a of a copy of the application and of the
notice of hearing of the application on all parties who have appeared
in the cause and on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office. The
notice of hearing must be given at the time prescribed in Code of Civil
Procedure section 1005 unless the court has prescribed a shorter
period.”   (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
9.40(c)(1), emphasis added.)  
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
Therefore, the Court continues
the hearing to April 29, 2024 at 8:30 A.M. in Department 207 to permit Counsel
to effectuate proper service on the State Bar of California by mail at its San
Francisco office in compliance with the California Rules of Court.
 
Counsel for Plaintiff shall
give notice and file a proof of service of such.
 
DATED: March 27, 2024                                                       ___________________________
Michael E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 
 