  Case Number:  22STCV06704    Hearing Date:   November 2, 2023    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Thursday, November 2, 2023
CASE NUMBER:                   22STCV06704
CASE NAME:                        Arthur Lopez v. California Department of Motor Vehicles, et al. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants City of Newport
Beach, et al. 
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiff Arthur Lopez
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Request for Order Staying
Litigation or, in the alternative, Order to Furnish Security for Vexatious
Litigant
OPPOSITION:                        25 October 2023
REPLY:                                  26
October 2023
 
TENTATIVE:                         City
Defendants’ Motion to Stay the Action is granted. The court 
sets an
OSC re: Status of Appeal for January 31, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  City Defendants are ordered to give notice. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On
February 23, 2022, Plaintiff Arthur Lopez filed a Complaint against the
California Department of Motor Vehicles and Steven Gordon. On March 28, 2023,
the court granted Plaintiff leave to file a Second Amended Complaint (“SAC”). 
 
The
SAC added new Defendants including the City of Newport Beach. The SAC alleges eight
causes of action:
1)     Deprivation
of Civil Rights, 42 U.S.C. §§ 1983 & 1985;
2)     Violation
of the Americans with Disability Act; 
3)     California
Tort Claims Act; 
4)     Violation
of the Unruh Act; 
5)     Infliction
of Emotional Distress; 
6)     Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress; 
7)     Fraud;
and 
8)     Intentional
Misrepresentation. 
On
August 14, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer of
the Defendants California Department of Motor Vehicles and Steven Gordon
(collectively “Defendants”) to the SAC without leave to amend. 
 
On
October 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Appeal. 
 
On
July 27, 2023, the Defendants City of Newport Beach, City of Newport Beach
Police Department, William Hume, John Lewis, and Kevin Monsoor (collectively
“City Defendants”) filed this Motion seeking an Order Staying Litigation
Against City Defendants, or in the alternative, For an Order to Furnish
Security for Vexatious Litigant.
 
On
September 8, 2023, Defendant Southside Towing filed a Joiner to City
Defendants’ Motion.  On August 1, 2023,
Defendant City of Tustin also filed a Joiner. Plaintiff filed two opposing
papers on October 25, 2023. City Defendants filed a reply on October 26, 2023.
The matter is now before the court. 
 
Request to Stay action or order to furnish
security for vexatious litigant
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
CCP § 391.1 provides:
 
In any
litigation pending in any court of this state, at any time until final judgment
is entered, a defendant may move the court, upon notice and hearing, for an
order requiring the plaintiff to furnish security or for an order dismissing
the litigation pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 391.3. The motion for an
order requiring the plaintiff to furnish security shall be based upon the
ground, and supported by a showing, that the plaintiff is a vexatious litigant
and that there is not a reasonable probability that he or she will prevail in
the litigation against the moving defendant.
 
“[I]f, after hearing the evidence upon the motion, the court
determines that the plaintiff is a vexatious litigant and that there is no
reasonable probability that the plaintiff will prevail in the litigation
against the moving defendant, the court shall order the plaintiff to furnish,
for the benefit of the moving defendant, security in such amount and within
such time as the court shall fix.” (CCP § 391.3(a).) “‘Security’ means an
undertaking to assure payment, to the party for whose benefit the undertaking
is required to be furnished, of the party's reasonable expenses, including
attorney's fees and not limited to taxable costs, incurred in or in connection
with a litigation instituted, caused to be instituted, or maintained or caused
to be maintained by a vexatious litigant.” (CCP § 391(c).)
 
“The vexatious litigant statutes (§§ 391–391.7) are designed
to curb misuse of the court system by those persistent and obsessive litigants
who, repeatedly litigating the same issues through groundless actions, waste
the time and resources of the court system and other litigants.” (Shalant v.
Girardi (2011) 51 Cal.4th 1164, 1169.)  
II.        Request for
Judicial Notice 
 
The court may take judicial
notice of “official acts of the legislative, executive, and judicial
departments of the United States and of any state of the United States,”
“[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state or (2) any court of record of the
United States or of any state of the United States,” and “[f]acts and
propositions that are not reasonably subject to dispute and are capable of
immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of reasonably
indisputable accuracy.” (Evid. Code § 452(c), (d), and (h).) “Taking judicial notice of a
document is not the same as accepting the truth of its contents or accepting a
particular interpretation of its meaning.” (Joslin
v. H.A.S. Ins. Brokerage (1986) 184
Cal.App.3d 369, 374.)
 
City Defendants request judicial notice of the following: 
 
1)    
Attached
as EXHIBIT A hereto, is a true and correct copy of State of California
Vexatious Litigant List as of July 2023.
 
2)    
Attached
as EXHIBIT B hereto, is a true and correct copy of the Register of
Actions in the matter of Arthur Lopez v. California Department of Motor
Vehicles et al., filed in Orange County Superior Court on April 28, 2023,
as Case No. 30-2023-01322426.
 
3)    
Attached
as EXHIBIT C hereto is a true and correct copy of the Orange County
Superior Court (“OCSC”) Minute Order for OCSC Case No. 30-2023-01322426 (ROA
No. 2) in the matter of Arthur Lopez v. California Department of Motor
Vehicles et al.
 
Defendant City of Tustin request judicial notice of the
following: 
 
1)    
The
court of appeal docket in Lopez v. Our Lady Queen of Angels Catholic Church,
Court of Appeal Case Number G062468. A copy of the court of appeal docket is
attached as Exhibit 1.
 
City Defendants’ request for judicial notice is granted. 
 
III.      Discussion
 
City Defendants provide evidence that in November 2022, the
Orange County Superior Court added Plaintiff to the State of California
Vexatious Litigant List. (City Defendants’ RJN Ex. A.) City Defendants assert
that in April 2023, Plaintiff tried to file a Complaint against the California
Department of Motor Vehicles and City Defendants in Orange County Superior
Court but the lawsuit was rejected due to Plaintiff’s vexatious litigant status
and the fact that Plaintiff’s proposed pleading failed to meet the requirements
of CCP § 391.7(b). (City Defendants’ RJN Ex. B, C.) City Defendants contend
that since his lawsuit was rejected by the Orange County Superior Court and,
given that Plaintiff needed Court permission to file a new lawsuit, Plaintiff
instead added City Defendants to this action in violation of CCP §§ 391 to
391.8. 
 
Consequently, City Defendants ask that this action be
dismissed, or alternatively, that the Court order Plaintiff to furnish
security. 
The court accepts that Plaintiff is a vexatious litigant within
the meaning of CCP § 391(a)(4), which provides: 
 
Vexatious litigant”
means a person who does any of the following: . . .  Has previously been
declared to be a vexatious litigant by any state or federal court of record in
any action or proceeding based upon the same or substantially similar facts, transaction,
or occurrence.
 
“In
any litigation pending in any court of this state, at any time until final
judgment is entered, a defendant may move the court, upon notice and hearing,
for an order requiring the plaintiff to furnish security or for an order
dismissing the litigation pursuant to subdivision (b) of Section 391.3. The
motion for an order requiring the plaintiff to furnish security shall be based
upon the ground, and supported by a showing, that the plaintiff is a vexatious
litigant and that there is not a reasonable probability that he or she will
prevail in the litigation against the moving defendant.” (CCP § 391.1; see
also Singh v. Lipworth (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 40, 44 [“Under section
391.3, if the court determines that the plaintiff is a vexatious litigant and
has no reasonable probability of prevailing, it shall require the plaintiff to
post security”].) 
 
Since
this action was filed before the Orange County Superior Court found Plaintiff
to be a vexatious litigant, Plaintiff was not yet subject to any prefiling
requirements. (CCP § 391.7[1]) Consequently, City Defendant requests an immediate stay of
this action or, in the alternative, an Order requiring Plaintiff to furnish security.
The proposed amount for security is not stated by City Defendants. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff contends that “he is so indigent
and has no employment income” due to his disabilities and that he cannot provide
any form of security. (Opp. at pp. 5:27-6:1.) City Defendants are correct in
pointing out that if Plaintiff is unable to furnish a security, the litigation must
be dismissed as to the defendant for whose benefit the security was ordered
furnished. (CCP § 391.4.) Plaintiff cites no legal authority that excuses Plaintiff
from furnishing a security due to his alleged indignant status. (See McColm v.
Westwood Park Ass'n
(1998) 62 Cal.App.4th 1211, 1219 [$1,000 amount was not an undue burden for
indigent plaintiff] disproved on other grounds by John v. Superior Court
(2016) 63 Cal.4th 91; Moran v. Murtaugh Miller Meyer & Nelson, LLP
(2007) 40 Cal.4th 780, 786 [rejecting argument that an order to furnish
security unconstitutionally
discriminates against vexatious litigants of “modest means” where plaintiff was
employed as a paralegal].) The fact that Plaintiff may be unable to furnish a
security does not dispense with the requirement to furnish a security. 
 
Second,
City Defendants show that Plaintiff has no reasonable probability of prevailing
in the litigation. The
court notes that the demurrer of the California Department of Motor Vehicles
and Steven Gordon to the SAC was sustained without leave to amend.  The court found Plaintiff failed to state a
claim against the Defendants and the SAC was uncertain, despite Plaintiff having
been given the opportunity to amend and correct the pleadings. (See 9/15/2023
Ruling.) The court summarized the main allegations in the SAC as follows: 
 
The SAC asserts in general that
Defendants “utilized their local and headquarter offices and badges to violate
Plaintiff’s Civil Rights, size his property, automobile by colluding with
various police departments under color of law.” (SAC at 2.) “[T]hese Defendants
have colluded with numerous police/law enforcement agencies to
unconstitutional/unlawfully/fraudulently have sized Plaintiff's
property/automobile repeatedly and impose bogus citations and fee/fines.” (SAC
at 8.) Defendants funneled money to these various agencies from money paid by
Plaintiff for specific registration fees” and fraudulently imposed over charges
for annual registration renewal at various local (DMV)-California Department of
Motor Vehicle Offices through rogue employees. (SAC at 8.) “Once the
overcharges were collected from Plaintiff in cash the fund were applied to his
record-registration fees” but were instead redirected “to a hidden DMV fund so
as to allow late charges/penalties to continue compounding as if no monies were
ever paid further fueling” the demand for payment of overcharges/fines. (SAC at
8.) Defendants “refuse to issue receipts when payments are made even if paid in
cash, all which is a violation of state and federal laws[.]” (SAC at 9.)
Defendant DMV also did not update their record to reflect payment and new
expiration date of “9/8/2020” and so caused Plaintiff to be given a citation by
the New Port Beach Department on 01/11/2020 and 01/14/2020 (SAC at 11.)
 
(9/15/2023
Ruling.)
 Plaintiff failed to explain what mandatory statutory
obligation Defendants violated in charging Plaintiff overcharge fees/fines
related to his vehicle registration. (See Inland Empire Health Plan v.
Superior Court (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 588, 593 [An entity is not immune
from liability “when it is under a statutory obligation to grant or withhold a
permit or approval or when the decision is a nondiscretionary, ministerial
act.”.].) Plaintiff has failed to state a basis for liability against the
public entities. Here, the City Defendants point
out the first cause of action for Deprivation of Civil Rights,42
U.S.C. §§ 1983 & 1985, fails because Plaintiff failed to identify
discriminatory conduct to sustain the claims. As to the second cause of action
for Violation of the Americans with Disability Act (“ADA”), Plaintiff fails to allege
how Defendants violated the ADA when they stopped Plaintiff after observing he
was driving with expired registration tags and impounded his vehicle upon
discovering he was driving with a suspended license and with no registration. The
third cause of action, titled California Tort Claims Act, is not a recognized
cause of action. The fourth cause of action for Violation of the Unruh Act
applies to private business establishments, not public entities like City
Defendants. (Civ. Code § 51(b).) Plaintiff also fails to allege he had a
protected disability under the ADA and the Unruh Act and failed to state facts
that show discrimination. Lastly, the court notes that fifth through eighth
causes of action fail against the public entity Defendants because Plaintiff
fails to state a statutory basis for liability.The court finds that the proper remedy to protect Defendants
from Plaintiff’s frivolous claims would be to dismiss the action.
 
As explained in Huang v. Hanks (2018) 23 Cal.App.5th
179
 
California courts have inherent power to ‘... control
[their] proceedings. [Citation.] From their creation by article VI, section 1
of the California Constitution, California courts received broad inherent power
not confined by or dependent on statute. [Citations.] This inherent power
includes ‘fundamental inherent equity, supervisory, and administrative powers,
as well as inherent power to control litigation. [Citations.]  [B]ecause courts should hear only actual
disputes, and should prevent harassment of defendants, California courts possess the inherent authority to dismiss
cases that are fraudulent or ‘vexatious. [Citations.] This inherent
power of a trial court is to be exercised to achieve justice and prevent misuse
of [its] proces[s]....’ [Citations.] 


(Id. at pp. 181–182 [internal citations and
quotations omitted].)
 
The court finds that Plaintiff added the City Defendants to
this action to circumvent the Orange County Superior Court’s denial of his prefiling
request. (City Defendants’ RJN Ex. C.) The court also finds that Plaintiff’s
SAC is frivolous as to all other named Defendants because the SAC  fails to state a cause of action against each
Defendant, the SAC is uncertain, and Plaintiff failed to show the possibility
of successfully amending the complaint despite previously being given the
opportunity to do so. 
 
As
stated by the Huang Court: 
 
[W]
e conclude that the trial court here ‘retain[ed] flexibility to exercise
historic inherent authority ... [to] fashion[ ] [a] remed[y] as necessary to
protect [defendants’] rights’ [citation] to be free from the monetary expense
and other costs of responding to appellant's frivolous claims that cannot avoid
being categorized as ‘fantastic,’ ‘delusional,’ or ‘fanciful.’
 
(Huang, supra, 23 Cal.App.5th at
p. 182.) Plaintiff’s 51-page opposition fails to present any evidence or legal
authority to show that Plaintiff’s action has merit and is not frivolous. 
 
Although the court is inclined to dismiss the
action due to frivolousness, since an appeal has been filed and is pending, the
court instead grants the City Defendants’ Motion to Stay the Action.  
 
Conclusion
 
City Defendants’ Motion to Stay the Action is granted. The
court sets an OSC re: Status of Appeal for January 31, 2024, at 8:30 a.m.  City Defendants are ordered to give notice. 


