  Case Number:  23TRCV01578    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  E Tentative Ruling
Judge Alan B. Honeycutt

Department E

Hearing Date:                         Thursday, October 17,
2024
Case Name:                            Aurelia Wise v. Macy’s
Inc., et al. 
Case No.:                                23TRCV01578
Motion:                                  Motion for
Summary Judgment
Moving Party:                         Defendant Macy’s Retail
Holdings, LLC
Responding Party:                  Plaintiff Aurelia Wise
Notice:                                    OK

 

 
Ruling:                                    Defendant
Macy’s Retail Holdings, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
 
Defendant to give
notice.

 

 
BACKGROUND
On
May 17, 2023, Plaintiff Aurelia Wise (“Plaintiff”) sued Defendants Macy’s,
Inc., Macy’s Retail Holdings, LLC, and Does 1-25 (“Macy’s”). The complaint
asserts two (2) causes of action: 1. Premises Liability and 2. General
Negligence.  Specifically, Plaintiff
alleges that on March 20, 2022, she sustained injuries as a result of a slip
and fall accident on an escalator.
 
On
November 1, 2023, Plaintiff amended the complaint to name Doe 1 as Schindler
Elevator Corporation (“Schindler”).
 
On
November 14, 2023, Macy’s filed their answer. 
 
On
November 14, 2023, Macy’s filed a cross-complaint concurrently with their
answer against Roes 1 through 20 inclusive for 1. Express Indemnification; 2.
Equitable Indemnification; 3. Equitable Contribution; and 4. Declaratory
Relief. 
 
On
November 28, 2023, Schindler filed their answer. 
 
On
August 14, 2024, Macy’s filed the instant motion. 
 
On
September 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed their opposition. 
 
On
October 7, 2024, Macy’s filed their reply. 
 
DISCUSSION
Plaintiff’s
Evidentiary Objections
No. 1: The Court
sustains the objection on the basis of improper legal conclusion as to the
statement “which depicts the ‘Out of Order’ sign” in paragraph 7 only. The
Court overrules each remaining objection.  
 
No. 2: The Court
overrules each objection.
 
No. 3: The Court
sustains the objection on the basis of improper legal conclusion as to the
statement “which depicts the ‘Out of Order’ sign” in paragraph 7 only. The
Court overrules each remaining objection.  
 
Legal
Standard
The
function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a
determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support
for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the
need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437c(c) “requires
the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and
‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by
other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of
law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110,
1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in
a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the
function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any
triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge
v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima
(1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
With
a summary judgment motion, a three-step analysis is required of the trial
court. (AARTS Productions, Inc. v. Crocker Nat’l Bank (1986) 179 Cal.
App. 3d 1061, 1064–65.) First, the trial court must identify the issues framed
by the pleadings since it is these allegations to which the motion must respond
by establishing a complete defense or otherwise showing there is no factual basis
for relief on any theory reasonably contemplated by the opponent’s pleading. (Ibid.)
Secondly, the court must determine whether the moving party’s showing has
established facts which negate the opponent’s claim and justify a judgment in
movant’s favor. (Ibid.) When a summary judgment motion prima facie
justifies a judgment, the third and final step is to determine whether the
opposition demonstrates the existence of a triable, material factual issue. (Ibid.) 
As
to each claim as framed by the complaint, the defendant moving for summary
judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate
an essential element, or to establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)
128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520. ) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
Once the moving defendant
has discharged its burden as to a particular cause of action, the plaintiff may
defeat the motion by producing evidence showing that a triable issue of one or
more material facts exists as to that cause of action.  (CCP
§437c(p)(2).)  On a motion for summary
judgment, the moving party's supporting documents are strictly construed and
those of his opponent liberally construed, and doubts as to the propriety of
summary judgment should be resolved against granting the motion.  (D’Amico v. Board of Medical Examiners
(1974) 11 Cal.3d 1, 21.)
Discussion
Macy’s moves for
summary judgment or in the alternative summary adjudication of both causes of
action in the complaint, First Cause of Action Premises Liability and Second
Cause of Action Negligence. Macy’s raises on the following issues: (1) Plaintiff
cannot prevail on her first cause of action for Premises Liability against
Macy’s; (2) Plaintiff cannot prevail on her second cause of action for General
Negligence against Macy’s; (3) Plaintiff cannot prevail on her first cause of
action for Premises Liability against Schindler; (4) Plaintiff cannot prevail
on her second cause of action for General Negligence against Schindler. 
 
On these issues,
Macy’s specifically argues the following: (A) the stopped escalator did not
constitute a dangerous condition; (B) Plaintiff cannot demonstrate the
causation element of negligence; (C) Plaintiff cannot prevail against Schindler
because it did not own or control the subject property.
 
            First Cause of Action - Premises
Liability
 
“The
elements of a cause of action for premises liability are the same as those for
negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Castellon v. U.S. Bancorp (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 994, 998.)
“Premises liability is grounded in the possession of the premises and the
attendant right to control and manage the premises.” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1158, quotation
marks omitted.)
Second
Cause of Action – Negligence 
 
            In order to state a claim for
negligence, Plaintiff must allege the elements of (1) “the existence of a legal
duty of care,” (2) “breach of that duty,” and (3) “proximate cause resulting in
an injury.” (McIntyre v.
Colonies-Pacific, LLC (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 664, 671.)
 
A. The stopped escalator
did not constitute a dangerous condition
      Macy’s
argues that Plaintiff is unable to prove that the stopped escalator constitutes
a dangerous condition. It is undisputed that Plaintiff was walking on a stopped
escalator which was out of service at the time of her injury. (Defendant’s
Statement of Material Facts, 1, 11-12.) In support of their argument, Macy’s offers
the following disputed facts: Plaintiff merely alleges that "her shoes got
trapped on the escalator." However, at deposition, Plaintiff conceded that
her shoe may not have gotten caught at all and that she does not know that any
malfunction or debris caused her to fall. (DSSMF 16, 18). Macy’s also offers
disputed fact No. 17, “Plaintiff does not know why Macy’s is responsible for
her injuries” which they claim is evidenced by Exhibit C containing excerpts
from Plaintiff’s deposition. The specific language cited in the deposition is
as follows: “Q: Okay. And in what way is Macy's responsible? … A: I know that I
fell. My – my knee, my back, headache, arm a little, arm. It was a sudden fall.
So it -- kind of brace myself but couldn't. The shoulder, I think. Yeah, my
arm, trying to hold on to my -- hold on to the -- grabbing for the rail. Those
things. I felt the pain into my feet.” (Donovan Declaration, Exhibit C,
46:13-22.) The Court notes that nowhere in the cited portion of the deposition
transcript does Plaintiff say that she does not know why Macy’s is responsible
for her injuries. 
Macy’s also provides a photograph taken of the
top of the escalator immediately after the accident which they claim reveals
that the escalator was not in a dangerous condition. (Cheek Decl., ¶ 8.; Donovan
Decl., Exh. B.) The photograph which Macy’s claims was taken immediately after
the accident has a watermark on the bottom left corner with the date “4/11/2022,”
which is after the accident. (Donovan Decl., Exh. B.) In their Reply, Macy’s
claims that the April 11, 2022, date on the photo represents the date the photo
was downloaded from the Macy’s system and forwarded to the adjustor but offers
no evidence in support of this assertion. 
Overall, Macy’s submits no expert declaration
or other evidence upon which a conclusive inference of the condition of the escalator
can be drawn to establish that there is no triable issue as to the dangerous
condition of the escalator. First, Exhibit B appears to depict only the top
portion rather than the entirety of the escalator, such that it is difficult to
conclude from this photograph alone that the escalator constituted a dangerous
condition. Second, it is unclear when the photograph was taken based on the inconsistencies
between the declaration claiming it was taken right after the incident and the
watermarked date on the photo of the escalator which is after the incident. Additionally,
Macy’s cites cases from New York holding that a stopped elevator was not a
dangerous condition, but those cases are not binding on this Court. Whether a
stopped escalator constitutes a dangerous condition is largely a question of
fact for the jury. Therefore, Macy’s fails to meet their moving burden of
establishing no triable issue of material fact as to whether the escalator was
a dangerous condition. Thus, the Court will not grant summary judgment or
adjudication on this ground.
B.     Plaintiff
cannot demonstrate causation
 
            Macy’s argues that Plaintiff is
unable to establish causation as to either cause of action. In support of their
argument, Macy’s offers the following disputed facts: Plaintiff testified in
her deposition that she "doesn't know what happened" when she reached
the top of the escalator and doesn't know "if her shoe got caught at
all." (DSSMF 15-16.) She doesn't know why Macy's is responsible for her
injuries, and admitted that she had no evidence of any malfunction or debris which
caused her to fall. (DSSMF 17-18.) However, as to disputed fact No. 17, the
Court again notes that nowhere in the cited portion of the deposition
transcript does Plaintiff say that she does not know why Macy’s is responsible
for her injuries. Overall, the Court finds this testimony sufficient to negate
causation as it establishes that Plaintiff does not possess evidence to
establish that Macy’s caused her injuries. Macy’s has met their moving burden
and the burden now shifts to Plaintiff. 
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff only offers
her deposition transcript, which states the following: Plaintiff testified that
she held her granddaughter as she went up the escalator. She also had her left
hand on the railings. (Wise Depo: 42:7-21). When she got to the top, she fell
after the escalator caught her foot. (Wise Depo: 45:1-7.) She fell forward and
was on her belly. (Wise Depo: 48:17-25.). By producing only Plaintiff’s
deposition transcript which merely recounts her recollection of the fall, and
nothing further such as an expert declaration, Plaintiff fails to establish
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to causation. 
 
            Therefore, the Court finds that Plaintiff
has failed to demonstrate the existence of a triable, material factual issue as
to causation. 
 
C.    Schindler
did not own or control the premises
Macy’s argues that Plaintiff cannot prove that
Schindler owned or controlled the subject Macy’s or the subject escalator. In
support of their argument, Macy’s offers the following facts: Schindler did not
own or control the subject Macy’s or the subject escalator as it was merely an
outside third-party maintenance company. (DSSMF 21-24.) At the time of the
incident, Schindler was waiting for parts in order to replace the right
handrail on the escalator, which had been out of service since March 5, 2022,
and there were no acts or omissions by Schindler that caused or contributed to
Plaintiff's incident. (DSSMF 25-28.) Plaintiff asserts the Premises Liability
cause of action against both Macy’s and Schindler. Whether Schindler owned or
controlled the Premises has no bearing on whether Macy’s controlled or owned
the premises. Macy’s makes no argument and provides no evidence to establish
that there is no triable issue of material fact as to Macy’s ownership or
control over the premises. Thus, Macy’s fails to meet their moving burden on the
issue of possession of the premises and the right to control and manage the
premises under Premises Liability. 
Therefore, the Court will not grant summary
judgment or adjudication on this ground. 
 
Overall,
Plaintiff has failed to demonstrate the
existence of a triable, material factual issue as to causation. Causation is an
element of both causes of actions in this case: Negligence and Premises
Liability. Therefore, Macy’s is entitled to Summary Judgment. 
 
 
CONCLUSION
 
Defendant
Macy’s Retail Holdings, LLC’s Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED.
 
Defendant
to give notice.  Honorable
Alan B. Honeycutt
Judge
of the Superior Court 
 
           