  Case Number:  23SMCV02465    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  205    Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles – West District  Beverly Hills Courthouse / Department 205  KSFB MANAGEMENT, LLC,   Plaintiff, v.  FOCUS FINANCIAL PARTNERS, LLC, et al.,    Defendants.    Case No.:  23SMCV02696     Hearing Date:  October 17, 2024   [TENTATIVE] order RE:   defendant’S MOTION TO COMPEL    RESPONSES TO ITS second    set of document REQUESTS          BACKGROUND  This action relates to a dispute over a non-compete provision.  Defendant Focus Financial Partners LLC (“Focus”) is an acquirer of, and investor in, financial wealth management firms and other financial services firms.  (Compl. ¶6.)  Focus—through its wholly owned subsidiary NKSFB, LLC (“NKSFB”)—acquired substantially all assets of Nigro Karlin Segal Feldstein & Bolno, LLC (“Nigro Karlin”), a business management firm.  (Id. ¶¶ 6, 16.)  At the same time, the principals of Nigro Karlin formed a management company—Plaintiff KSFB Management LLC (“KSFB”) – through which those principals would pursuant to a Management Agreement, manage and oversee the NKSFB business.  (Id. ¶ 17.) As part of the initial acquisition, KFSB and its principals agreed to a Transaction Management Agreement (“TMA”).  (Id. ¶ 18.)  The TMA contains a non-competition covenant which applied for two years following the termination of (a) the TMA or (b) a principal’s employment or affiliation with KSFB.  (Id.)  The parties also signed a separate Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Agreement, which contained a five year non-compete expiring on April 1, 2023, which KSFB concedes is valid and enforceable.  (Id. ¶ 19.) On July 1, 2022, the parties entered into an Amended and Restated Management Agreement (“ARMA”) which is an amended and restated version of the TMA.  (Id. ¶ 20.) The ARMA contains a materially similar non-competition covenant to the one to which the parties agreed in the TMA.  The ARMA’s non-compete also applied for two years following the termination of (a) the ARMA or (b) a principal’s employment or affiliation with KSFB.  (Id. ¶¶ 21, 25.)  On June 7, 2023, KSFB sued Focus, seeking a declaratory judgment that the ARMA’s non-compete is not enforceable under California law.  The operative complaint alleges two claims for (1) declaratory relief and (2) injunctive relief.   On February 23, 2024, Focus served its Second Set of RFPs (“2nd RFPs”).  (Glass Supp. Decl. ¶ 2.)  On March 26, 2024, KSFB responded to the 2nd RFPs with objections to every single request and blanket refusals to search for or produce any documents.  (Ex. 1 to Glass Supp. Decl.)  Focus met and conferred with KSFB regarding its responses to the 2nd RFPs on April 11, 2024.  (Glass Decl. ¶ 12.)  During the meet and confer, Focus agreed to consider narrowing several of the 2nd RFPs. (Id.) On May 22, 2024, Focus agreed temporarily to withdraw Request Nos. 10 and 11, and conditionally offered to withdraw Request No. 8.  (Id. ¶ 13.)  Focus also offered to narrow or amend Request Nos. 4, 6, and 7 in response to KSFB’s stated concerns.  (Id.)  Focus did not elect to make changes to Request Nos. 5, 9, and 12. (Id.)  The 2nd RFPs now include the following Requests:   Request No. 4: All Documents and Communications relating to the negotiation of the non-compete in the Original Management Agreement.   Request No. 5: All Documents and Communications relating to the negotiation of the ARMA, including but not limited to the non-compete (Section 2.12), non-solicit (Section 2.13), full-time-duties (Section 2.5), and confidentiality provisions (Section 2.10).   Request No. 6: All Documents and Communications relating to the negotiation and execution of the purchase of RBS.   Request No. 7: Documents sufficient to show where each KSFB Principal resides and from where each KSFB principal primarily works.   Request No. 9: All Documents and Communications between KSFB or any KSFB Principal and any other Person—including but not limited to clients, other Focus partner firms, or potential acquirers of NKSFB or KSFB—relating to the ARMA’s non-compete (Section 2.12), terminating any relationship with Focus, NKSFB, or KSFB, or leaving Focus to start a new firm of any kind.   Request No. 12: Documents sufficient to show Your document retention policies, including but not limited to, policies implemented to retain documents relating to this Litigation.  (Id. ¶ 13; id., Ex. 5, at 4–10.)  This hearing is on Focus’ motion to compel responses to its 2nd RFPs.  Focus argues they seek relevant discovery, and KSFB’s objections are boilerplate and meritless.  The Court previously denied Focus’ motion to compel because its counsel’s declaration failed to show good cause for the requested discovery.  Focus’ counsel has now submitted a supplemental declaration.   LEGAL STANDARD A¿motion to compel further responses¿to a¿document request¿is proper where the moving party believes the statement of compliance is incomplete, or a representation of inability to comply is inadequate, evasive and/or an objection is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310 (a).)  The motion must show good cause to justify the discovery and must be supported by a meet and confer declaration. (Id. at subd. (b).) The scope of discovery is liberally construed in favor of disclosure “as a matter of right unless statutory or public policy considerations clearly prohibit it.”  (Greyhound Corp. v. Superior Court of Merced County (1961) 56 Cal. 2d 355, 377-378.)  The broad scope of permissible discovery includes “any matter, not privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence”.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2017.010.) MEET AND CONFER Focus submits the Declaration of Scott Glass in support of its meet and confer requirements.  The declaration attests the parties met and conferred on the 2nd RFPs and attended an informal discovery conference (“IDC”).  (Glass Decl. ¶¶ 3, 12-16.)  The Court concludes Focus has met its obligations to meet and confer.     DISCUSSION Focus argues that the 2nd RFPs seek relevant documents, and accordingly, it has established good cause for compelling their production.  (Focus Mot. at 10-14.)  KSFB does not dispute that the requests seek relevant documents.  Instead, KSFB contends that Focus’ motion is procedurally defective because it cannot move to compel production when KSFB has not stated it would produce the documents.  Instead, Focus should have filed a motion to compel further responses to challenge KSFB’s objections.  (KSFB Opp. at 8.)  In addition, KSFB argues Focus has not filed a separate statement in compliance with California Rules of Court rule 3.1345(c). A¿motion to¿“compel¿or to quash the production of documents or tangible things at a deposition” requires a separate statement.¿ (Cal. Rules of Court rule  3.1345(a)(5).)  Failure to comply with the CRC’s separate statement requirements is grounds alone to deny the motion. (Mills v. U.S. Bank¿(2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 871, 893.)  Notwithstanding, the Court will consider Focus’ motion on the merits since it filed a joint statement.   As to KSFB’s other procedural challenge, it is without merit.  KSFB argues that Focus should have brought a motion to compel further responses pursuant to § 2031.310, rather than a motion to compel production pursuant to § 2031.320.  But Focus’ notice of motion states that it is moving for an order pursuant to both §§ 2031.310 and 2031.320.  Accordingly, KSFB’s argument, even if correct, is of no moment.        The Court now turns to the merits of the motion.  A motion to compel production of documents must be accompanied by a showing of ‘good cause — i.e., declarations containing¿specific facts¿justifying inspection of the documents described in the document requests. (Weil & Brown, Rutter Group,¿Civil Procedure Before Trial, Chapter 8E-15, Section 8:801.2, citing¿Code Civ. Proc. §2025.450(b)(1).)  A showing of good cause must be supported by admissible evidence, such as declarations.¿(Calcor Space Facility, Inc. v. Superior Court¿(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 216, 223-224.)  Declarations in support of the good cause requirement must contain “specific facts rather than mere conclusions”.¿(Rutter Group,¿Civil Procedure Before Trial, Chapter 8H-8, Section 8:1495.7, citing¿Fireman's Fund Ins. Co. v. Superior Court¿(1991) 233 Cal.App.3d 1138, 1141.)  Once a showing of good cause is met, it is then the responding party’s burden to justify the objections asserted.  (Kirkland v. Superior Court¿(2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 92, 98.)  Here, Focus’ declaration addresses the relevance of each of the relevant requests in the 2nd RFPs and thus meets the procedural requirement that there must be admissible evidence to support a showing of good cause.   The Court now turns to the specific document requests.  Request No. 4 seeks all documents and communications relating to the negotiation of the non-compete provision in the original management agreement.  The complaint references the non-compete provision in the original management agreement as a relevant background fact.  Plaintiff does not argue these documents are irrelevant.  Accordingly, the Court grants the motion to compel the production of these documents.   Request No. 5 seeks all documents relating to the negotiation of the ARMA, including the non-compete, non-solicit, full-time duties and confidentiality provisions of the ARMA.  Documents related to the negotiation of the ARMA’s non-compete are relevant to the subject matter of this action given that KSFB seeks to have that non-compete declared void and unenforceable.  As to documents related to other provisions (non-solicit, full-time and confidentiality), Focus contends they are relevant because they may bear on whether an “actual controversy” exists in this case.  According to Focus, these documents may show that the other provisions of the ARMA—the enforceability of which Plaintiff does not challenge—are actually what is constraining KSFB from terminating its relationship with Focus.  Given this explanation and the fact that Plaintiff does not dispute relevance, the Court will compel production of these documents.      Request No. 6 seeks all documents and communications relating to the negotiation and execution of the purchase of Ross Bennett Smith (“RBS”).  According to Focus, these documents are relevant because they may support that the ARMA’s non-compete provision is enforceable under Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code § 16601 because it was executed as part of a business-acquisition transaction.  Based on this explanation of relevance, the request is overbroad and will be limited to documents and communications relating to the negotiation and execution of the purchase of RBS that refer to the ARMA.   Request No. 7 seeks documents sufficient to show where each KSFB Principal resides and from where each KSFB principal primarily works.  Focus argues this request seeks relevant documents because KSFB’s Complaint requests relief “with respect to services rendered in California,” and documents showing where each KSFB principal resides and works are critical to understanding the scope of the relief that KSFB seeks.  The Court concludes Focus has shown good cause and will grant the motion to compel this request.   Request No. 8 seeks all documents and communications between KSFB or any of its principals and any other person relating to the ARMA’s non-compete, terminating any relationship with Focus or leaving Focus to start a new firm.  Focus argues this request seeks documents concerning what KSFB and its principals are saying about the ARMA’s non-compete, its enforceability, or their plans to engage in conduct that would contravene the non-compete.  Focus argues that KSFB has conceded the relevance of this request because it has agreed to respond to other broader requests seeking the same documents.  The Court concludes Focus has shown good cause and will grant the motion to compel this request. Request No. 12 seeks documents sufficient to show KSFB’s document retention policies.  Focus argues there is good cause for this request as KSFB’s retention policies would help Focus evaluate KSFB’s claims that no further responsive documents exist to Focus’ First Set of Requests for Production.  The Court concludes Focus has shown good cause and will grant the motion to compel this request.   CONCLUSION Based on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS IN PART and DENIES IN PART Defendant Focus Financial Partners, LLC’s motion to compel responses to its 2nd RFPs. IT IS SO ORDERED.  DATED: October 17, 2024    ___________________________ Edward B. Moreton, Jr. Judge of the Superior Court 