  Case Number:  22CHCV00289    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  F49 


Dept.
  F49




Date:
  8/6/24




Case
  Name: Dunn Investment Properties, Inc. v. Carles M. Johnson, Sheila S.
  Johnson, and Does 1 to 25




Case
  No. 22CHCV00289



 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT
NORTH VALLEY DISTRICT
DEPARTMENT F49
 

AUGUST 6, 2024
 

MOTION FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES AND
COST

Los Angeles Superior
Court Case No. 22CHCV00289

 
Motion
filed: 6/27/24
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Dunn Investment Properties,
Inc. (“Plaintiff”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendants Carlos M. Johnson and
Sheila S. Johnson (“Defendants”)
NOTICE: OK. 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order for an award of $71,185, including $69,390.00 in attorney’s fees and $1,795.00
for costs.
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is GRANTED IN PART.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is an unlawful detainer action.
 
On April 25, 2022, Plaintiff filed this
action against Defendants and Does 1 to 25, for unlawful detainer at 24773
Avenue Rockefeller, Santa Clarita, CA 91355 (the “Premises”). Subsequently, on January
26, 2023, Plaintiff filed its operative Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”).
 
On March 8, 2023, Plaintiff submitted a request for default
against Defendant Sheila S. Johnson (“Sheila”) and all unknown occupants, which
was subsequently entered by the Clerk on the same day.
 
On May 30, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s motion for
summary adjudication on its right to possession of the Premises. (5/30/23
Minute Order.) 
 
On May 3, 2024, following a jury trial, the Court entered judgment
for Plaintiff against Defendant Charles S. Johnson (“Charles”) for damages in
the amount of $464,490.05 (the “Judgment”). Subsequently, at Plaintiff’s
request, the Court entered the Judgment against the defaulting Defendant Sheila
on June 17, 2024. 
 
On June 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion for
Attorney’s Fees and Cost (the “Motion”). Subsequently, Defendants filed their
untimely Opposition on July 31, 2024. Plaintiff filed its Reply on August 1,
2024.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
Unless otherwise provided by statute, a prevailing party is
entitled as a matter of right to recover costs in any action or proceeding.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1032, subd. (b).) Under Code of Civil Procedure section
1033.5, recoverable “costs” include attorneys’ fees when authorized by
contract, statute, or law. (Id., § 1033.5, subd. (a)(10).)
 
The Civil Code provides for the prevailing
party’s recovery of attorneys’ fees and costs in an action on a contract, if
“the contract specifically provides that attorney's fees and costs, which are
incurred to enforce that contract.” (Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (a).)
 
A.   
Timeliness of the Motion and Responding Papers
 
A motion for attorneys’ fees must be made within the time for
filing a notice of appeal under California Rules of Court, rules 8.104 and
8.108. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1702(b)(1).) Rule 8.104 requires a notice
of appeal, and therefore a motion for attorneys’ fees, to be filed within 60
days after service of the Notice of Entry of judgment, or 180 days after entry
of judgment—whichever is sooner. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 8.104(a)(1).)
However, this deadline does “not commence to run until entry of judgment at the
conclusion of the litigation.” (Carpenter v. Jack in the Box Corp.
(2007) 151 Cal.App.4th 454, 469.) 
 
An opposition to a motion must generally be filed
and served at least nine court days, and all reply papers at least five court
days before the hearing (Code Civ. Procs., § 1005, subd. (b).) However, no
paper may be rejected for filing on the ground that it was untimely submitted
for filing. The court has discretion to refuse to consider a later filed paper.
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1300(d).)
 
Here, the entry of Judgment was made on May 2,
2024 (5/2/24 Judgment), establishing that Plaintiff must file its motion for
attorney’s fees within the time for filing a notice of appeal by July 1, 2024,
which is calculated based on 60 days from the entry of judgment. Here, the
Motion is filed on June 27, 2024, meeting the deadline, and thus is timely.
 
Defendants’ Opposition to the Motion was filed
on July 31, 2024, only four court days prior to the hearing, thereby failing to
meet the required nine-court-day period under Code of Civil Procedure section
1005 subdivision (d). The untimely Opposition also caused Plaintiff’s
consequent filing of Reply papers late. 
 
Nonetheless, the Court at its discretion
considers the arguments presented in both the untimely filed Opposition as well
as in Plaintiff’s consequently later Reply.
 
B.    
Prevailing
Party
 
The prevailing party is “the party with a net monetary
recovery, a defendant in whose favor a dismissal is entered, a defendant where
neither plaintiff nor defendant obtains any relief, and a defendant as against
those plaintiffs who do not recover any relief against that defendant. If any
party recovers other than monetary relief and in situations other than as
specified, the ‘prevailing party’ shall be as determined by the court, and
under those circumstances, the court, in its discretion, may allow costs or not
and, if allowed, may apportion costs between the parties on the same or adverse
sides pursuant to rules adopted under Section 1034.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1032,
subd. (a).) 
 
Here,
Plaintiff obtained an order for possession of the Premises on May 30, 2023.
Subsequently, Plaintiff also obtained a net monetary recovery via a jury
verdict and Judgment by this Court on May 2, 2024. 
 
Accordingly,
pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1032, subdivision (a), the Court
finds Plaintiff to be the prevailing party in this case.
 
C.    Contractual Attorney Fees Clause
 
The Civil Code provides for the prevailing party’s recovery
of attorneys’ fees and costs in an action on a contract, if “the contract
specifically provides that attorney's fees and costs, which are incurred to
enforce that contract.” (Civ. Code, § 1717, subd. (a).)
 
Here,
Plaintiff presents that the recovery of the landlord’s attorney’s fees is
authorized under paragraph 13.2 of the commercial lease in question, which
provides, in pertinent part, “... In the event of a Breach, Lessor may... 13.2(a)
Terminate Lessee's right to possession of the premises by any lawful means...
In such event Lessor shall be entitled to recover from Lessee... (iv) any other
amount necessary to compensate Lessor for all of the detriment proximately
caused by the Lessee's failure to perform its obligations under the Lease or which
in the ordinary course
of things would be likely to
result therefrom, including but not limited to, costs of recovering possession
of the premises, expenses of reletting, including necessary renovation and
alteration of the premises, reasonable attorney's fees...” (Reply, at pp. 3-4, Apollo
Decl. ¶ 4, Ex. “2.”)
 
            Defendants
contend that the Court should interpret paragraph 13.2 by giving great weight to
the fact that parties intentionally lined out a separate paragraph 31 of the
lease agreement. (Opp’n. at p. 2.) Defendants argue that the parties’ act of mutual
deleting (lining out) paragraph 31, entitled “Attorney’s Fees,” is the most
direct and persuasive evidence of the parties’ true intent to not allow
recovery of attorney’s fees, thus the enforcement of paragraph 13.2 will be
directly contradictory to the parties’ true intent. (Ibid.)
 
            It
is important to note that Defendants do not challenge the scope of the existing
paragraph 13.2, on which Plaintiff relies, nor dispute the meaning of the
“attorney's fees” explicitly listed under paragraph 13.2. Their position is
that attorney’s fees are categorically not allowed due to the extrinsic
evidence of the parties' conduct, where the intention is not to incur such
obligations because of the parties’ mutual deletion of paragraph 31, entitled
“Attorney's Fees.”
 
            The
Court notes that it is well established that extrinsic evidence may be
admissible if it renders the contract terms susceptible to more than one
reasonable interpretation; however, it is not admissible to add to, detract
from, or vary the terms of a written contract. (See Parsons v. Bristol
Development Co. (1965) 62 Cal.2d 861, 865; Continental Baking Co. v.
Katz (1968) 68 A.C. 527, 536-537.)
 
            Here,
the language of paragraph 13.2 seems to be specific and unambiguous on its
face. It sets forth, “13.2 Remedies, if Lessee fails to perform any of its
affirmative duties or obligations ... Lessor may have by reason of such Breach:
(a) Terminate Lessee’s right to possession of the Premises by any lawful
means.... In such event, Lessor shall be entitled to recover from Lessee: (i)
the unpaid Rent ... at the time of termination .... (iv) any other amount
necessary to compensate Lessor for all the detriment proximately caused by the
Lessee’s failure to perform its obligations under this Lease or which in the
ordinary course of things would be likely to result therefrom, including but
not limited to the cost of recovering possession of the Premises, expenses of
reletting, including necessary renovation and alteration of the Premises,
reasonable attorneys’ fees[.]” (Apollo Decl. Ex. “2.”) (Underlines added.)
 
            Furthermore,
the Court finds the language of paragraph 13.2 to be sufficiently broad to encompass
an action for unlawful detainer, as noted in Drybread v. Chipain
Chiropractic Corp., where it was pointed out that “an unlawful detainer
proceeding ... usually involves a lease, and often seeks its termination and
recovery of rent.” (Drybread v. Chipain Chiropractic Corp. (2007) 151
Cal.App.4th 1063, 1069.) These events are explicitly stated in paragraph 13.2.
            
            By
contrast, the stricken paragraph 31 included general language stating that “if
any Party or Broker brings an action or proceeding involving the Premises whether
founded in tort, contract, or equity, or to declare rights hereunder, the
Prevailing Party (as hereafter defined) in any such proceeding, action, or
appeal thereon, shall be entitled to reasonable attorneys’ fees.” (Apollo Decl.
Ex. “2.”)
 
            The
Court notes that an almost identical commercial lease provision as in paragraph
31 was found to be barred from recovery of attorney’s fees under limited
circumstances, including in the event of voluntary dismissal. (See Mitchell
Land & Improvement Co. v. Ristorante Ferrantelli, Inc. (2007) 158
Cal.App.4th 479.) Thus, the Court does not agree with Defendants’ argument that
the mutual deletion of a general provision concerning the recovery of attorney’s
fees, which is limited in its enforcement per case law, while preserving a more
specific provision that allows for the same, must be found contradictory to the
parties’ intent. 
 
            Accordingly,
the Court finds Defendants’ argument to be unpersuasive on multiple grounds.
First, Defendants seek to introduce extrinsic evidence not to clarify the
meaning of the language in the written contract, but to effectively remove the
term of attorneys’ fees, making the extrinsic evidence inadmissible. Second,
even if the Court considers the possibility of different meanings of “attorney’s
fees,” it finds that the parties’ conduct of deleting a separate general
paragraph does not render the contract term susceptible to more than one
reasonable interpretation. 
 
Therefore, the Court finds that the recovery of attorney’s
fees is authorized under the commercial lease at issue, leading to the granting
of the Motion.
 
D.    Defendants’ Other Arguments
 
Defendants
further argue that the attorneys’ fees are unavailable in this case because the
prayer of Plaintiff’s Complaint fails to request such. (Opp’n. at p. 4.) 
 
In its responses, Plaintiff argues that a party is entitled
to assert entitlement to attorneys’ fees according to proof. Code of Civil Procedure Section
469 provides in relevant part, “No variance between the allegation in a
pleading and the proof is to be deemed material, unless it has actually misled
the adverse party to his prejudice in maintaining his action or defense upon
the merits.” Additionally, Plaintiff claims that amendments at trial to conform
to proof, “if not prejudicial, are favored since their purpose is to do justice
and avoid further useless litigation,” citing Garcia v. Roberts (2009)
173 Cal.App.4th 900, 909. Furthermore, Plaintiff contends that its motion under
Code of Civil Procedure section 469 was unopposed by Defendants and granted by
this Court on April 29, 2024.
 
Based
on the above, the Court finds that Plaintiff is not barred from recovering
attorneys’ fees. 
 
E.     Plaintiff’s Alternative Basis - Cost of Proof Sanctions
 
Here, Plaintiff argues that the cost of proof sanctions
provides an alternative basis to enter an award of attorney’s fees. (Mot. at p.
6.)
 
Code
of Civil Procedure section 2033.420, subdivision (a), provides that “if a party
fails to admit the genuineness of any document or the truth of any matter when
requested to do so under this chapter, and if the party requesting that
admission thereafter proves the genuineness of that document or the truth of
that matter, the party requesting the admission may move the court for an order
requiring the party to whom the request was directed to pay the reasonable
expenses incurred in making that proof, including reasonable attorney's fees.”
 
Costs
may be awarded when the requesting party proves the matter at trial or on a
motion for summary judgment. (Barnett v. Penske Truck Leasing Co., L.P.
(2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 494, 497-498.) The moving
party’s declaration setting out the attorney's hourly fees
and costs
of proof
is required. The requested amounts must be segregated from costs and fees
expended to prove other issues. (See Garcia v. Hyster Co. (1994) 28
Cal.App.4th 724, 737; Wimberly v. Derby Cycle Corp. (2021) 56
Cal.App.4th 618, 638.)
 
Here, Plaintiff summarily states that Defendants denied each
and every material allegation including the notice, reasonable daily rental
value, and the overdue amount as of March 1, 2022. (Mot. at p. 6.)
 
Defendants argue that the only factual issue that the Jury
decided in this case is the monthly rental value, which they hotly contested,
implying that Defendants had reasonable ground to believe that they may prevail
on this matter. (Opp’n. at p. 6.)
 
The Court notes that although Plaintiff has provided a
tabulated attorney’s fees, detailing the tasks and time spent, it does not
segregate the fees as to each denied fact, or to other issues.
 
Similarly, Defendants’ mere assertion that an issue was
hotly contested does not meet their burden to show that they had reasonable
ground to believe that they would prevail on the matter at the time that
admission was denied, or that other exceptions under Code of Civil Procedure
section 2033.420, subdivision (b) may apply. 
 
Given the Court has GRANTED the Motion based on the
authorization under the contractual attorney’s fees clause, the Court does not
consider this alternative basis due to the lack of evidence presented from both
parties. 
 
F.     Award
of Reasonable Attorneys’ Fees
 
Utilizing
a lodestar approach, and in view of the totality of the circumstances, the
Court finds that the total and reasonable amount of attorney’s fees and costs
incurred for the work in preparing the Motion is $57,795.00, calculated at a
reasonable hourly rate of $350.00 for 160 hours reasonably spent, in addition
to $1,795.00 for the reasonable cost incurred. The adjustment in the hourly
rate and total hours considers the complexity of the case, the remote
proceedings, and the fact that certain tasks, such as the delivery of orders,
do not warrant a charge for an attorney’s hours. 
 
In
sum, the Court GRANT IN PART the Motion for Attorney’s Fees and Costs.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Attorney’s Fees and Costs is GRANTED IN PART.
 
Defendants
are ordered to pay $57,795.00, jointly and severally, to Plaintiff within 120
days.
 
Moving
party to provide notice. 