 Case Number:  23STCV08414    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendants
SSA Terminals, LLC, SSA Terminals (Pier A), Pacific Maritime Services, LLC, and
Frank Hall’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is GRANTED.
 
I.               
OBJECTIONS
Plaintiff Plentitude
Transportation, Inc. (Plaintiff) submits objections to the materials submitted
by Defendants SSA Terminals, LLC, SSA Terminals (Pier A), Pacific Maritime
Services, LLC, and Frank Hall (Defendants) in support of the motion to compel
arbitration. These objections to the declarations of Candice Woods and Henry
Russell are OVERRULED, as these witnesses provide sufficient basis to testify
(respectively) to the business and legal context in which Defendants operate,
and to the physical circumstances of the terminal in question. 
Defendants’ objections to the
materials submitted by Plaintiff are OVERRULED, as they consist not of
arguments as to the admissibility of the evidence, but arguments as to its
legal significance.
II.            
MOTION TO
COMPEL ARBITRATION
On petition of a
party to an arbitration agreement to arbitrate a controversy, a court must
order the petitioner and respondent to arbitrate the controversy if it
determines the arbitration agreement exists, unless (1) the petitioner has
waived its right to arbitrate; (2) grounds exist for the revocation of the
agreement; or (3) “[a] party to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a
pending court action or special proceeding with a third party, arising out of
the same transaction or series of related transactions and there is a
possibility of conflicting rulings on a common issue of law or fact.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.) 
 
“[T]he party moving
to compel arbitration bears the burden of establishing the existence of a valid
agreement to arbitrate, and the party opposing arbitration bears the burden of
proving by a preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to its defense.
The role of the trial court is to sit as a trier of fact, weighing any
affidavits, declarations, and other documentary evidence, together with oral
testimony received at the court's discretion, to reach a determination on the
issue of arbitrability.” (Hotels Nevada
v. L.A. Pacific Center, Inc. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 754, 758.)
 
Defendants SSA Terminals, LLC, SSA Terminals (Pier A),
Pacific Maritime Services, LLC, and Frank Hall (Defendants) move to compel
arbitration of the claims raised by Plaintiff Plentitude Transportation, Inc.
(Plaintiff) based on an arbitration provision contained in the corporate
Defendants’ Marine Terminal Operator Schedule of Rates, Regulations and
Practices (MTO Schedule). (Woods Decl. ¶ 5.) That schedule requires arbitration
of “all disputes between the parties,” particularly “[a]ny dispute, claim or controversy
involving Customer and Operator . . . which in any fashion arises out of or
relates to (i) this Schedule or the breach, termination, enforcement,
interpretation or validity thereof including the determination of the scope or
applicability of this agreement to arbitrate; (ii) any services provide
pursuant to this schedule; and/or (iii) any events occurring on a terminal
facility subject hereto.” (Woods Decl. Exh. A, § 40, ¶¶ A, B.) 
 
Plaintiff never executed any agreement containing these
provisions, but Defendants refer to 46 U.S.C. § 40501, which states the
following:
 
Marine
terminal operator schedules.--A marine terminal operator may make available to
the public a schedule of rates, regulations, and practices, including
limitations of liability for cargo loss or damage, pertaining to receiving,
delivering, handling, or storing property at its marine terminal. Any such
schedule made available to the public is enforceable by an appropriate court as
an implied contract without proof of actual knowledge of its provisions.
 
(46 U.S.C. § 40501, subd. (f).) Thus Defendants argue that,
under the above statute, the public promulgation of its schedule, including the
arbitration provision, “is enforceable by an appropriate court as an implied
contract without proof of actual knowledge of its provisions.” Defendants note
that notices of the MTO schedule were displayed in signage at the entrances and
security checkpoints for its terminal facilities. (Russell Decl. ¶¶ 4–5, Exh.
A.) 
 
Plaintiff in opposition contends that the above statute
allows Defendants to set their own schedule of “rates, regulations, and
practices . . . pertaining to receiving, delivering, handling, or storing
property at its marine terminal,” which does not include the authority to
prescribe arbitration as the mode for resolution of disputes. (Opposition at
pp. 11–12.) Plaintiff also argues that the arbitration provisions contain
unconscionable waivers of entitlement to punitive damages and automatic use of
expedited arbitration procedures which limit their right to discovery. (Opposition
at pp. 13–15.) Plaintiff also argues that its claims are beyond the scope of
the arbitration clause. (Opposition at pp. 15–20.) Plaintiff also argues that
Defendants waived the right to compel arbitration by waiting six months to file
their motion and filing a motion to strike beforehand. (Opposition at pp.
20–21.)
 
Defendants may enforce their
arbitration provision pursuant to 46 U.S.C. § 40501, subd. (f). Per that
statute, Defendants’ may prescribe “rates, regulations, and practices  . . . pertaining to receiving, delivering,
handling, or storing property at its marine terminal.” (46 U.S.C. § 40501,
subd. (f).) The imposition of a lawful arbitration provision governing disputes
arising from the use of the operator’s terminal is properly construed as a
“regulation” pertaining to the use of that terminal under the statute. The statute
expressly gives operators the power to prescribe “limitations of liability for
cargo loss or damage,”  indicating that
the extent of their scheduling authority is not limited to on-site codes of
conduct, but rather encompasses in some measure the relief available to
customers concerning the use of their facilities. An interpretation of the
statute that includes the power to enforce limitations of liability in MTO
schedules, as it expressly does, reasonably includes the power to enforce
arbitration agreements. Although Plaintiff correctly notes that arbitration is
fundamentally a creature of contract (Opposition at p. 12; see AT&T Mobility
LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 563 U.S. 333, 339 [noting the “fundamental
principle that arbitration
is a matter of contract”]), the same is true for limitations of liability and
other matters embraced in the MTO schedule. (Philippine Airlines, Inc. v. McDonnell
Douglas Corp. (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 234, 242 [noting that “contractual
allocations of risk in nonconsumer commercial settings are routinely upheld”].)
The statute at issue expressly grants Defendants the power to enforce such
terms as contracts. (46 U.S.C. § 40501, subd. (f).)
Plaintiff’s claims are embraced within the arbitration
clause at issue. That provision embraces “any dispute which in any fashion
arises out of or relates to” three subject areas: (i) the schedule itself, (ii)
“any services provided pursuant to this schedule,” and (iii) “any events
occurring on a terminal facility.” (Russell Decl. Exh. A.) This plainly
embraces Plaintiff’s fourth through ninth causes of action, which expressly
relate to Defendants’ obstruction of Plaintiff’s access to the terminal, and
indeed the breach of the covenant of fair dealing implicit in the schedule
itself. (Complaint ¶¶ 56–98.) These claims by their terms arise out of and
relate to the schedule and the services provided pursuant to the schedule. 
Plaintiff’s first three causes of
action for defamation and trade libel also fall within the arbitration
provision, as they relate to the accusations of misconduct related to an
alleged theft of a vehicle chassis from a port facility, published in a “ban
notice” explaining why Plaintiff would be excluded from the facility. The
allegations arise out of and relate to services at Defendants facility provided
pursuant to their schedule, and to events occurring on a terminal facility.
Plaintiffs rely on Medical Staff of Doctors Medical Center in Medesto v.
Kamil (2005) 132 Cal.App.4th 679, in which the court declined to
apply an arbitration agreement to defamation claims arising from statements
made by an insurance company concerning the reasons for terminating its agreement
with the medical staff of a certain hospital. However, that case is
distinguishable on a number of grounds. It involved a far narrower arbitration
clause — one that applied only to disputes “concerning the terms of this
Agreement.” (Id. at p. 683.)  That
case concerned defamatory statements published “in press releases and newspaper
articles,” as opposed to the statements here contained in a “ban notice” issued
against Plaintiff for all Defendant-affiliated container terminals. (Id.
at p. 682–683; Complaint ¶ 22.) Finally, the court held the claims at issue
exempt from arbitration pursuant to a separate exception in the contract. (Kamil,
supra, 132 Cal.App.4th at pp. 684–685.) No such exception is
applicable here. Each of Plaintiff’s claims is arbitrable pursuant to the
arbitration provisions at issue here.
Plaintiff next argues that the
arbitration agreement is unconscionable, as it is applied to Plaintiff by the
operation of law and includes oppressive limitations on discovery and a limitation
on punitive damages. “Unconscionability
requires a showing of both procedural unconscionability and substantive
unconscionability.” (Ajamian v. CantorCO2e, L.P. (2012) 203
Cal.App.4th 771, 795.) Plaintiff has demonstrated a substantial degree of procedural
unconscionability here, as they are correct that the arbitration agreement
applies to them by the operation of 46 U.S.C. § 40501.
However,
Plaintiff does not demonstrate any substantive unconscionability in the
agreement. Plaintiff claims that the arbitration agreement requires expedited
procedures that limit each party to one deposition, and which don’t allow
motions to compel or
dispositive motions. (Motion at pp. 16–17.) But these expedited procedures do
not in fact prevent motions to compel or dispositive motions, but rather direct
that discovery issues be resolved “on an expedited basis” with preference for
“brief letters” over “lengthy briefs,” and that dispositive motions be
submitted pursuant to JAMS Recommended Arbitration Discovery Protocols for
Domestic Commercial Cases. (Opposition Exh. 4.)[1]
Moreover, while the parties are not limited to one deposition, but are entitled
to a minimum of one deposition, and are permitted more upon a showing of need.
(Opposition Exh. 4.) Similar provisions have been upheld against
unconscionability challenges (See Dotson v. Amgen, Inc. (2010) 181
Cal.App.4th 975, 982) Nor does Plaintiff present authority for the proposition
that the schedule’s waiver of punitive damages is unconscionable, since 46
U.S.C. § 40501, subd. (f) expressly recognizes the potential for limitations of
liability.
There is no merit to Plaintiff’s final argument that
Defendants have waived the right to compel arbitration. Defendant’s initially
moved to compel arbitration before the present case was even filed. In the
related case of Plentitude Transportation v. SSA Terminals, LASC Case
No. 22STCV37306, featuring allegations that were identical in most material
respects, Defendants’ first appearance in court was the filing of a motion to compel
arbitration on December 30, 2022. Plaintiff dismissed that case and filed the
present one. Defendants’ motion to strike the present complaint, though denied,
was in the furtherance of its initial motion to compel arbitration. Although
Plaintiff argues that Defendant has responded to discovery, these responses
consisted of objections passed on the pending motion to compel arbitration.
(Opposition Exh. 3.) Plaintiff has identified no conduct inconsistent with the
intent to arbitrate.
The motion is therefore GRANTED.


