  Case Number:  19STCV08600    Hearing Date:   January 23, 2024    Dept:  61 Defendant Ali Shapouri, Trustee of
the Bahram Shahian Trust and Personal Representative of the Estate of Bahram
Shahian’s Motion for Summary Judgment and Adjudication is DENIED..
 
I.               
SUMMARY
JUDGMENT
A party may move for summary judgment “if it
is contended that the action has no merit or that there is no defense to the
action or proceeding.”  (Code Civ. Proc.
§ 437c, subd. (a).) “[I]f all the evidence submitted, and all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law,” the moving
party will be entitled to summary judgment. 
(Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp.
(1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.) A motion for summary adjudication may be made
by itself or as an alternative to a motion for summary judgment and shall
proceed in all procedural respects as a motion for summary judgment.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (f)(2).)
 
The moving party bears an initial burden of
production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable
issue of material fact, and if he does so, the burden shifts to the opposing
party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850;
accord Code Civ. Proc. § 437c, subd. (p)(2).)
 
Once the defendant
has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable
issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of action or a
defense thereto.  (Aguilar, supra, 25 Cal.4th at 850.) 
The plaintiff may not rely upon the mere allegations or denials of its
pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,
shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material
fact exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Ibid.) 
To establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the
motion must produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster
v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Defendant Ali
Shapouri, Trustee of the Bahram Shahian Trust and personal representative of
the estate of Bahram Shahian (Defendant) moves for summary judgment or adjudication
of all claims in Plaintiff Maryam Farr’s (Plaintiff) First Amended Complaint
(FAC). 
 
The basis for the
motion is simple. Plaintiff’s claims are based upon the contention that
Decedent Bahram Shahian (Decedent) made promises to her in the context of a
romantic, cohabitating relationship, to provide for her support and to ensure
that she was provided for in his estate plan, including a one-third division of
his property. (FAC ¶ 15.) Defendant, however, contends that during deposition,
Plaintiff denied that Decedent had ever promised her a precise one-third
division, but that she had heard of his intent to make a one-third division
from family members who were with him near the time of his death. (Motion Exh.
A.)
 
Defendant’s
argument is unpersuasive. An agreement to provide for the support of a
cohabitant and to divide property with them may be an enforceable contract
under Marvin v. Marvin (1976) 18 Cal.3d 660. “The fact that a man and woman live together without
marriage, and engage in a sexual relationship, does not in itself invalidate
agreements between them relating to their earnings, property, or expenses.
Neither is such an agreement invalid merely because the parties may have
contemplated the creation or continuation of a nonmarital relationship when
they entered into it. Agreements between nonmarital partners fail only to the
extent that they rest upon a consideration of meretricious sexual services.” (Id.
at pp. 670–671.)
Plaintiff in opposition presents her declaration, in which
she states the following:
Bahram stated to me that he wanted to continue
his relationship with me, that he wanted me to marry him, that I was the love
of his life, and that he wanted me to stay with him, care for him, and support
him during his battle with Cancer. He said that he knew taking care of him
while he is sick from cancer treatments was not what I signed up for when I
agreed to marry him and that he knew he had health problems, but that he wanted
me to be by his side and devote myself to him and our relationship. He also
stated that if he was unable to beat the cancer diagnosis, he wanted his last
stages and moments of his life to be with me.
Thus, Bahram promised me that if I continued
my relationship with him, continued to be his companion, care for him, and support
him during both sickness and health and during his battle with cancer, he would
create a family with me, that we would live together at the Thurston Property, he
would take care of me financially, and specifically stated that if something
were to happen to him from a health position, he would leave me an interest in
the Thurston Property. As to the Thurston Property, I understood his words to
mean that he would divide his whole interest in the Thurston Property between
me, his daughter, and his son in equal shares. He often talked about his
children, and I understood that, as a father, he wanted to take care of his
children.
(Farr Decl. ¶¶ 40–41.) Thus Plaintiff testifies that
Decedent promised her an interest in the property at issue, and that she understood
this entailed a division between herself and his children. Plaintiff’s
understanding is corroborated by the declarations of others who spoke to
Decedent before his death. (Panahpour Decl. ¶ 10; Abruzze Decl. ¶ 8.)
Defendant in reply argues that the failure to promise her
the specific one-third interest is fatal to her claims, because Decedent’s
offer was not “sufficiently definite” that “the performance promised is
reasonably certain.” (Reply at pp. 11–12, quoting Weddington Productions,
Inc. v. Flick (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 793, 811.)
This argument, however, is contradicted by applicable
authority. In Byrne v. Laura (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 1054, the
court found enforceable an oral agreement between unmarried cohabitants in
which one party promised the other “many times . . . that he would take care of
her for the rest of her life in exchange for her services as a homemaker,” and
that “she did not have to worry because he would take care of her and she would
‘have a roof over [her] head.’” (Id. at p. 1060.) When the estate of the
promisor argued that these promises were “too uncertain,” the court held as
follows:
[T]he modern trend of the law favors carrying
out the parties' intention through the enforcement of contracts and disfavors
holding them unenforceable because of uncertainty. Marvin endorsed “a
policy based upon the fulfillment of the reasonable expectations of the parties
to a nonmarital relationship.” (Marvin v. Marvin, supra, 18
Cal.3d at p. 684, 134 Cal.Rptr. 815, 557 P.2d 106.) If Flo's evidence is
credited, as it must be for purposes of summary adjudication, then it is
certain that Skip expected to provide for Flo's support. Denial of that
expectation as a matter of law would be contrary to the policy enunciated in Marvin.
Moreover, as Flo observes, her understandings with Skip were no more uncertain
than the “general and nonspecific” Marvin agreement which was enforced in Alderson
v. Alderson (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 450, 463, 225 Cal.Rptr. 610, where “[t]he
parties never bothered to actually spell out the terms of their agreement or
the consideration therefor.”
(Id. at p. 1065–1066, some internal citations and
quotation marks omitted.)[1]
Where there is uncertainty as to the “precise act to be done,” such uncertainty
“may be resolved in light of extrinsic evidence.” (Id. at p. 1066; see
also Blackburn v. Charnley (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 758, 767 [holding that
real estate purchasers could use extrinsic evidence to support claim for
specific performance of purchase contract that lacked a legal description of
the property].) 
Here, Plaintiff testifies that Decedent promised her an
interest in the property. (Farr Decl. ¶ 41.) This is consistent with her
deposition testimony, in which she stated that Decedent promised her “part of
the house for me and his pension plan.” (Motion Exh. A at p. 88.) Although
Decedent did not specify to her the precise division of the property to be
made, Plaintiff testifies that she understood that it would have to account for
the interests that Decedent’s children had in the property (Farr Decl. ¶ 41),
and presents evidence that Decedent conveyed the same understanding to others.
(Panahpour Decl. ¶ 10; Abruzze Decl. ¶ 8.) While these statements to third
parties do not constitute an offer to Plaintiff, they may constitute extrinsic
evidence corroborating the understanding of the parties when the promises were
made. (Byrne, supra, 52 Cal.App.4th at p. 1066.)
The motion is therefore DENIED.


