  Case Number:  24STCV01260    Hearing Date:   November 14, 2024    Dept:  34 A.B. v. Los Angeles Unified School District
(24STCV01260)
 
1.              
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories, Set One (“ROG”), is
GRANTED. 
2.              
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests For Production, Set One (“RPD”),
is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff shall provide further
responses to Defendant’s ROGs and RPDs within thirty (30) days of the issuance
of this court’s order.
 
Further, Defendant’s Request for
Sanctions is GRANTED. Monetary sanctions are AWARDED in favor of Defendant and
against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s Counsel, jointly and severally, in the total
amount of $1,397.50.
 
Background
 
             On January 17, 2024, Plaintiff A.B.
(“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendant Los Angeles Unified School
District (“Defendant”) and Does 2-25 arising from Plaintiff’s alleged sexual
abuse while Plaintiff attended Alain Leroy High School, which was operated by
Defendant, during the 2005-2006 school year on causes of action for: 
 
1.              
Negligence;

2.              
Negligent
Hiring, Retention, and Supervision; 
3.              
Negligent
Failure to Warn, Train, or Educate; 
4.              
Negligent
Supervision of a Minor; 
5.              
Breach
of Mandatory Duty; and 
6.              
Negligence
(as to Does 2-25 only). 
 
On February 28, 2024, Defendant filed an answer to Plaintiff’s complaint.

 
On August 15, 2024, Defendant filed: (1) Motion to Compel Further Responses
to Interrogatories, Set One (“ROGs”); and (2) Motion to Compel Further
Responses to Requests For Production, Set One (“RFPs”). On October 31, 2024, Plaintiff
filed oppositions to Defendant’s motions. On November 6, 2024, Defendant filed
replies to Plaintiff's oppositions. 
 
Legal
Standard
On receipt of a response
to form interrogatories, special interrogatories, and/or demand requests, the
propounding and/or demanding party “may move for an order compelling further
response” if: (1) the response is evasive or incomplete; (2) the representation
of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive; or (3) the
objection is without merit or too general. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd.
(a), 2031.310, subd. (a).)
The moving party must
demonstrate a “reasonable and good faith attempt” at an informal resolution of
each issue presented. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2016.040, 2033.290, subd. (b)(1).)
“In lieu of a separate statement required under the California Rules of Court,
the court may allow the moving party to submit a concise outline of the
discovery request and each response in dispute.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.290,
subd. (b)(2).)
Notice of the motion must
be provided “within 45 days of the service of the verified response, or any
supplemental verified response, or any specific later date to which the
requesting party and the responding party have agreed in writing . . .” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.300, subd. (c).) The responding party has the burden of
justifying the objections to the requests. (Coy v. Superior Court (1962) 58
Cal.2d 210, 220-221.)
Discussion
 
            Defendant moves the court to compel
Plaintiff to provide further responses to certain form and special
interrogatories. (Further ROGs Motion, at p. 5.) Defendant also moves the court
to compel further responses to Defendant’s requests for production. (Further
RFPs Motion, at p. 4.) Both of Defendant’s motions make a request for $1,397.50
in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff. (Further ROGs Motion, at p. 6; Further
RFPs Motion, at p. 5.)
 
            Plaintiff opposes the motion arguing
that Plaintiff provided verified further responses to Defendant’s discovery
requests on October 11, 2024. (Further ROGs Opp., at p. 4; Further RFPs Opp.,
at p. 4.) Plaintiff also argues that Defendant failed to comply with the meet
and confer requirements and further failed to conduct an informal discovery
conference prior to filing its motions. (Ibid.) Lastly, Plaintiff argues
that sanctions are not warranted since Plaintiff provided further responses in
a timely manner. (Further ROGs Opp., at p. 5; Further RFPs Opp., at p. 5.)
 
            In reply,
Defendant argues that Plaintiff’s verified further responses served on October
11, 2024, to Defendant’s special interrogatories 13 and 34, and form
interrogatories 6.4 and 6.5 are insufficient. (Further ROGs Reply, at pp. 1-2.)
Defendant also argues that Plaintiff’s verified further responses to
Defendant’s RFPs are insufficient. (Further RFPs Reply, at pp. 1-2.)
Additionally, Defendant argues that Plaintiff verified the further responses on
September 18, 2024, while the responses are dated and were not served until
October 11, 2024, begging the question of whether Plaintiff did in fact verify
them prior to them being finalized. (Further ROGs Reply, at p. 2; Further RFPs
Reply, at p. 2.) 
 
Meet and Confer 
 
            After a
review of the procedural history of the case, the court finds that the meet and
confer standard required has been met here. Furthermore, the court has not been
presented with any reason for why (much less evidence that would indicate that)
Defendant and/or Defendant’s counsel are acting in bad faith by bringing the
Further ROGs and RFPs Motions.
 
Special and Form Interrogatories
 
            The
following are the ROGs at issue: 
 
SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 13:
 
Identify all documents that evidence information in support
of your contention that the District negligently hired “Coach Jay”. 
 
SPECIAL INTERROGATORY NO. 34:
 
Please IDENTIFY (by date, nature and amount) each expense
incurred by you as a result of the subject incident for which you are seeking
recovery as damages in this lawsuit.
 
FORM INTERROGATORY NO. 6.4:
 
Did you receive any consultation or examination (except from
expert witnesses covered by Code of Civil Procedure sections 2034.210-2034.310)
or treatment from a HEALTH CARE PROVIDER for any injury you attribute to the
INCIDENT? If so, for each HEALTH CARE PROVIDER state: 
(a)        the name, ADDRESS, and telephone number; 
(b)       the type of consultation, examination, or treatment provided; 
(c)        the dates you received consultation, examination, or
treatment; and 
(d)       the charges to date.
 
FORM INTERROGATORY NO. 6.5:
 
Have you taken any medication, prescribed or not, as a
result of injuries that you attribute to the INCIDENT? If so, for each
medication state:
(a)        the name;
(b)       the PERSON who prescribed or furnished it;
(c)        the date it was prescribed or furnished;
(d)       the dates you began and stopped taking it; and
(e)        the cost to date.
 
            Defendant contends
that Plaintiff’s verified further responses to special interrogatory 13 states
that a “Police Report [was] taken by the 77th precinct police department
shortly after the sexual assault occurred, which is equally available to the
Defendant via obtaining a subpoena…”, however, Defendant has been unable to obtain
the police report with the information Plaintiff has provided. (Further ROGs
Reply, at p. 2, Shaheen Decl., Exh. A.) Thus, Defendant argues that the court
should order Plaintiff to provide Defendant with a copy of the police report.
(Further ROGs Reply, at p. 2.) 
 
            Defendant
contends that Plaintiff’s verified further responses to special interrogatory
34 states that “[Plaintiff] has not been able to complete her investigation and
discovery in order to ascertain her full expenses. They will be supplemented
upon obtaining them.” (Further ROGs Reply, at p. 2, Shaheen Decl., Exh. A.) Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s response is insufficient, especially since Plaintiff signed
the verification of her responses almost a month before the responses were
served. (Id., at p. 2.) Thus, Defendant argues that since it is entitled
to ascertain Plaintiff’s damages to properly evaluate the case, the court
should order Plaintiff to provide a second further response to special interrogatory
34. (Ibid.) 
 
            In relation
to form interrogatories 6.4 and 6.5, Defendant argues that Plaintiff has
indicated that she received treatment and has taken medications as a result of
the subject incident, however, Plaintiff has not provided any costs to date. (Ibid.)
Thus, Defendant argues that since it is entitled to ascertain Plaintiff’s medical
expenses to properly evaluate the case, the court should order Plaintiff to
provide a second further response to these form interrogatories. (Ibid.)
 
            The ROGs
sufficiently request information that is relevant to this matter and are
sufficiently narrow in scope.
 
The court finds that Plaintiff’s
subsequent responses include boilerplate objections, which the court does not
find to be meritorious. Specifically, objections that point to sources but then
tell Defendant to find the information themselves are not sufficient answers to
the special and form interrogatories. Rather, those are evasive responses that
do not actually answer the ROGs. Plaintiff must answer the ROGs herself, even
if Defendant has access to the same information.
 
The court grants the Further ROGs Motion.
 
Requests for Production
 
The following are the RFPs at
issue: 
 
REQUEST FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS NO. 22: 
 
Copies of any police report or any other report regarding
any alleged abuse or complaints regarding “Coach Jay”.
 
            Defendant
argues that in response to requests for production 22 and various others, Plaintiff
identified her medical records but has not produced any medical records to date
relating to the subject incident making Plaintiff’s responses insufficient. (Further
RFPs Reply, at p. 2.)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s further responses
to the RPDs are also boilerplate and without merit. Nearly all the subsequent responses
to the RPDs are the exact same objection. If there are documents to be provided
in response to the RPDs, they should be provided. The objections made are too
general and without merit, thus overruled.
 
The court grants the Further RPDs
Motion.
 
Sanctions 
“The court shall impose a
monetary sanction . . . against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion to compel further response, unless it finds that the
one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.290, subd. (d).)
Defendant requests
monetary sanctions in the amount of $1,397.50 against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s
counsel in each of Defendant’s motions for a total of $2,795.00. (Further
ROGs Motion, at p. 6; Further RFPs Motion, at p. 5.)
Plaintiff argues that sanctions are not warranted
since Plaintiff provided further responses in a timely manner on October 11,
2024, in accordance with the parties agreed upon deadlines. (Further ROGs Opp.,
at p. 5; Further RFPs Opp., at p. 5.) Plaintiff further contends that no meet
and confer efforts were made prior to Defendant’s motions being filed as the
meet and confer email was sent to an old service list and was not received by Plaintiff’s
counsel. (Further ROGs Opp., at p. 6; Further RFPs Opp., at p. 6.) Plaintiff
argues that there was no informal discovery conference conducted as required by
this court, which, if that had been timely done, the instant motions would not have
been filed. (Ibid.) Plaintiff also argues that Plaintiff was not using
gamesmanship or strategy to withhold information in the discovery process as Plaintiff
has provided all the information and documents Plaintiff has. (Ibid.)
Since the court has
granted both of Defendant’s motions, sanctions are warranted. Additionally, the
court does not have evidence before it that would indicate there is substantial
justification or other circumstances that would make the imposition of a
sanction unjust. Thus, the court must impose monetary sanctions. (Code Civ.
Proc., §§ 2030.300, subd. (d); 2031.310, subd. (h); 2033.290, subd. (d).)
Defendant’s counsel
declares: (1) that they charge $215.00 per hour in this matter; (2) that they
worked 3.50 hours on the motion; (3) that they anticipate spending 2.00 hours
reviewing Plaintiff’s opposition and preparing a reply; and (4) that they
anticipate spending 1.00 hour at the hearing for this matter per motion. (Further
ROGs Motion, Shaheen Decl., ¶ 7; Further RFPs
Motion, Shaheen Decl., ¶ 7.) A total of 13.00
hours. 
The hourly rate claimed is
reasonable, but the number of hours claimed is not. The court awards 6.50 hours
of work at the requested hourly rate. A total of $1,397.50 in monetary
sanctions for Defendant against Plaintiff and Plaintiff’s counsel.
Conclusion
 
1.              
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District’s Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Interrogatories, Set One, is GRANTED.  
 
2.              
Defendant Los Angeles Unified School District’s Motion
to Compel Further Responses to Requests For Production, Set One, is GRANTED. 
 
Plaintiff shall provide further
responses to Defendant’s ROGs and RPDs within thirty (30) days of the issuance
of this court’s order.
 
Defendant’s Request for Sanctions
is GRANTED. Monetary sanctions are AWARDED in favor of Defendant and against Plaintiff
and Plaintiff’s Counsel, jointly and severally, in the total amount of $1,397.50.