 Case Number:  23STCV22550    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ANTHONY BOUYER, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LITTLE CAESAR ENTERPRISES, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV22550
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER OVERRULING DEMURRER; SETTING
  ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE RE: RETENTION OF COUNSEL
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
July 16, 2024



 
On
September 18, 2023, Plaintiff Anthony Bouyer field this action against Defendants
Little Caesar Enterprises Inc., Douglas Kwi Ching (as Trustee of The Douglas Kwi
Ching and Kathy Kwang Nam Ching Revocable Trust Dated 10/19/99), and Kathy Kwang
Nam Ching (as Trustee of The Douglas Kwi Ching and Kathy Kwang Nam Ching Revocable
Trust Dated 10/19/99).
On
October 12, 2023, Douglas Kwi Ching filed a demurrer on behalf of himself and Kathy
Kwang Nam Ching as Trustees.  (Douglas Kwi
Ching is not a licensed attorney.  The Court
further addresses this problem below.)  There
was no attempt to meet and confer before filing the demurrer, as is required under
Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision (a).  (Fitzgerald Decl. ¶ 2.)
DEMURRER
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)
Plaintiff’s sole cause of action is for violation of
the Unruh Civil Rights Act.  Under the Act,
business establishments must provide people with disabilities with equal access
to their accommodations, advantages, facilities, privileges, and services.  (Civ. Code, § 51.)  
The
demurrer generally argues that Plaintiff is not a genuine customer, lacks standing
to bring his claim under the Unruh Civil Rights Act, has unclean hands, and brought
this frivolous action for improper purposes. 
(Demurrer at pp. 3-7.)  Plaintiff alleges
that he “is substantially limited in performing one or more major life activities,”
encountered barriers that prevented him from patronizing Defendants’ business, and
was denied full and equal access to the business.  (Complaint ¶¶ 1, 11, 22-27.)  This sufficiently alleges that Plaintiff has standing
to bring an action under the Unruh Civil Rights Act.  Plaintiff’s other contentions involve factual
issues and defenses that cannot be resolved on demurrer.
The
demurrer also argues that Plaintiff did not serve a mandatory prelitigation demand
letter.  (Demurrer at p. 5.)  Civil Code section 55.3, subdivision (b) sets
forth the items that must be included “with each demand letter or complaint sent
to or served upon a defendant or potential defendant alleging a construction-related
accessibility claim.”  It does not require
a demand letter; the additional information may be included with the service of
a complaint.  That is what happened here:
the filed Proofs of Service reflect service of an “Advisory Notice to Defendant”
and “Important Advisory Information for Building Owners and Tenants” along with
the summons and complaint.
The
demurrer is OVERRULED.
Douglas
Kwi Ching and Kathy Kwang Nam Ching (as Trustees) are ordered to file an Answer
no later than September 17, 2024.
ORDER
TO SHOW CAUSE
Douglas
Kwi Ching filed this demurrer on behalf of himself as Trustee of The Douglas Kwi
Ching and Kathy Kwang Nam Ching Revocable Trust Dated 10/19/99 and on behalf of
Kathy Kwang Nam Ching as Trustee of The Douglas Kwi Ching and Kathy Kwang Nam Ching
Revocable Trust Dated 10/19/99.
“[Business
and Professions Code] Section 6125 states, ‘No person shall practice law in California
unless the person is an active member of the State Bar.’  Under the statute, one who is not a licensed attorney
cannot appear in court for another person.” 
(Ziegler v. Nickel (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 545, 547.)  A trustee’s duties in connection with their role
as trustee do not include the right to represent the trust in propria persona in
an action involving the trust property.  (Id.
at p. 548.)  “The actions of the trustee affect
the trust estate and therefore affect the interest of the beneficiaries.  A nonattorney trustee who represents the trust
in court is representing and affecting the interests of the beneficiary and is thus
engaged in the unauthorized practice of law.” 
(Id. at p. 549.)
Douglas
Kwi Ching is not a licensed attorney with the State Bar of California.  He therefore cannot represent himself or Kathy
Kwang Nam Ching as Trustees of the Trust.
Douglas
Kwi Ching and Kathy Kwang Nam Ching (as Trustees) must retain licensed counsel in
order to file an Answer and further defend this action.[1]
Any
future filings made by Douglas Kwi Ching or Kathy Kwang Nam Ching as in propria
persona Trustees will be stricken for being filed in violation of state law and
this Order.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd.
(b).)
An
Order to Show Cause Re: Retention of Counsel for Defendant Trustees is scheduled
for September 17, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in Department 48 at Stanley Mosk Courthouse.  If Douglas Kwi Ching and Kathy Kwang Nam Ching
(as Trustees) have not retained counsel and filed an Answer by that date, the Court
may place them in default.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 16th day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 


