 Case Number:  23STCV07925    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  48 SUPERIOR  COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA  FOR THE  COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT      SARAH M. STRANDBERG,                          Plaintiff,             vs.   INMAUNG F&M CORPORATION, et al.,                           Defendants.   ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) )            CASE NO.: 23STCV07925   [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION FOR SANCTIONS       Dept. 48 8:30 a.m. July 16, 2024      On  April 11, 2023, Plaintiff Sarah M. Strandberg filed this action against Defendants  Inmaung F&M Corporation and Chavalit Inmaung. On  October 10, 2023, the Court granted Plaintiff’s unopposed motions to compel discovery  and ordered Defendants to serve verified responses, without objection, to Form Interrogatories  – General, Form Interrogatories – Employment, and Request for Production, Set One  within 30 days.  Defendants did not comply  with this order. On  January 23, 2024, the Court denied Plaintiff’s unopposed motion for terminating  sanctions, stating that Defendants’ failure to comply with a single order to produce  discovery did not demonstrate a history of abuse that justified terminating sanctions.  Defendants did not appear at that hearing. On  June 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion for issue and evidentiary sanctions.  Defendants did not file any oppositions. A  court may impose an issue sanction ordering that designated facts must be taken  as established in accordance with the claim of the party adversely affected by the  misuse of the discovery process.  (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2023.030, subd. (b).)  A court may  also impose an issue sanction prohibiting any party engaging in the misuse of the  discovery process from supporting or opposing designated claims or defenses.  (Ibid.) Plaintiff  served initial discovery requests on Defendants in June 2023.  Defendants still have not complied with the Court’s  October 10, 2023 discovery order compelling responses and have not produced anything  to Plaintiff.  (Jarvis Decl. ¶ 6.)  Some of the unanswered discovery requested the  identity of witnesses, documentation of the incident, documents governing the employment  relationship, information about Plaintiff’s termination, all documents Defendants  intend to use at trial, and other essential items for preparing Plaintiff’s case  and rebuttal to Defendants’ defenses.  (See  Motion at pp. 5-10.) Trial  is scheduled for August 12, 2024—less than a month away.  The Final Status Conference is less than two weeks  away.  Faced with these upcoming dates, Plaintiff  has been unable to prepare for trial and her rights have been impaired.  (See Jarvis Decl. ¶ 8.)   Defendants  have abused the discovery process by failing to respond to discovery for the past  year, even when the Court ordered their responses.  Accordingly, the Court imposes issue sanctions. The  unopposed motion for sanctions is GRANTED.   The Court will sign the proposed order after striking the incomplete phrase  at No. 40. Moving  party to give notice. Parties  who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org  indicating intention to submit.  If all parties  in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are  required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)  is also on calendar.             Dated this 16th day of July 2024                     Hon. Thomas D. Long Judge of the Superior    Court        