 Case Number:  23STCV04112    Hearing Date:   July 16, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



WALTER GEE, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LAGUNA CREEK CONSTRUCTION, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV04112
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER CONTINUING MOTION FOR SUMMARY
  ADJUDICATION; DENYING MOTION FOR ATTORNEY FEES; GRANTING MOTION TO QUASH SUBPOENA
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
July 16, 2024



 
On
October 6, 2023, Plaintiff Walter Gee filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendants Laguna Creek Construction Inc., Mohammadali Kalantari, and others.
On
April 4, 2024, Defendants filed a motion for summary judgment.
On
May 28, 2024, the Court granted Plaintiff leave to file a second amended complaint
(“SAC”).
On
June 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed his SAC.
On
June 20, 2024, the parties filed a joint stipulation to keep the motion for summary
judgment on calendar as a motion for summary adjudication.
Now
pending before the Court is the motion for summary judgment, along with a motion
for attorney fees and a motion to quash subpoena.
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
Defendants’
80-page separate statement consists of 61 undisputed material facts.  Plaintiff’s response to Defendants’ separate statement,
including his own additional disputed material facts, is 466 pages long.
“Separate
statements are required not to satisfy a sadistic urge to torment lawyers, but rather
to afford due process to opposing parties and to permit trial courts to expeditiously
review complex motions for [summary adjudication] and summary judgment to determine
quickly and efficiently whether material facts are undisputed.”  (United
Community Church v. Garcin (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 327, 335 (United Community Church).)  “The separate statement ‘provides a convenient
and expeditious vehicle permitting the trial court to hone in on the truly disputed
facts.’ [Citation.]”  (Nazir v. United Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 252 (Nazir).)  “[I]t is no answer to
say the facts set out in the supporting evidence and memorandum of points and authorities
are sufficient.  ‘Such an argument does not
aid the trial court at all since it then has to cull through often discursive argument
to determine what is admitted, what is contested, and where the evidence on each
side of the issue is located.’”  (United Community Church, supra, 231 Cal.App.3d at p. 335.)  “The due process aspect of the separate statement
requirement is self-evident—to inform the opposing party of the evidence to be disputed
to defeat the motion.”  (Id. at p. 337.)  “The
separate statement should include only material facts and not any facts that are
not pertinent to the disposition of the motion.”  (California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(d)(2).)
Beltran v. Hard Rock Hotel Licensing,
Inc. (2023) 97 Cal.App.5th 865 is illustrative of this widespread
problem:
Defendants filed three separate statements of undisputed
material facts (separate statement or statements) in support of each of the three
motions for summary judgment filed in this case.  Each separate statement includes over 600 paragraphs
of purportedly “material facts” and runs over 100 pages.  After reviewing the Defendants’ separate statements
and Beltran's responses to them, as well as recent separate statements in other
recent cases before us, we can only conclude that a document that was intended to
be helpful to the court and provide due process to the parties (Parkview Villas
Assn., Inc. v. State Farm Fire & Casualty Co. (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 1197,
1210, 35 Cal.Rptr.3d 411) is, in many cases, no longer serving either purpose. We
write on this issue to remind both litigants and trial courts about the appropriate
scope of the separate statement.
Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (b)(1),
requires each motion for summary judgment to be accompanied by a separate statement
“setting forth plainly and concisely all material facts that the moving party
contends are undisputed.  Each of the material
facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence.” (Italics
added.) California Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(d)(2) states: “The separate statement
should include only material facts and not any facts that are not pertinent to the
disposition of the motion.”  Under the Rules
of Court, “ ‘Material facts’ are facts that relate to the cause of action, claim
for damages, issue of duty, or affirmative defense that is the subject of the motion
and that could make a difference in the disposition of the motion.”  (Rule 3.1350(a)(2).)
What neither the rule nor the statute states is that
the moving party must include in the separate statement every fact they intend
to include in their motion, regardless of its materiality.  For example, HRH's very first “material fact”
in its separate statement is: “The Hard Rock brand is known worldwide for its connection
to music, fashion, and entertainment.” Under no interpretation of “material” does
this qualify – it is merely background information that has no relevance to any
cause of action or defense.
This is far from the only paragraph in the three separate
statements that make absolutely no difference in the disposition of the motion.
The paragraphs in a separate statement should be limited to facts that address
the elements of a cause of action or an affirmative defense.  (See Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1); rule
3.1350(a)(2), (d)(2).)  The statute and Rules
of Court do not preclude litigants from including background, nonmaterial information
in their papers as long as they include a cite to the evidence, but nonmaterial
facts should not be included in the separate statement.  The point of the separate statement is not to
craft a narrative, but to be a concise list of the material facts and the evidence
that supports them.  “The separate statement
serves two important functions in a summary judgment proceeding: It notifies the
parties which material facts are at issue, and it provides a convenient and expeditious
vehicle permitting the trial court to hone in on the truly disputed facts.”  (Collins v. Hertz Corp. (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th
64, 74, 50 Cal.Rptr.3d 149.)  There is nothing
convenient or expeditious about the separate statements submitted in this case.
The duty to comply with the law regarding separate statements
applies to both sides of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication.  The opposing party's responses to the separate
statement must be in good faith, responsive, and material.  Responses should directly address the fact stated,
and if that fact is not in dispute, the opposing party must so admit.  It is completely unhelpful to evade the stated
fact in an attempt to create a dispute where none exists. For example, HRH's separate
statement included paragraph 14: “When Shepherd began working at the Hotel, Plaintiff
Stephanie Beltran (“Plaintiff’) worked as a server in different parts of the Hotel,
but primarily in the Hotel's nightclub called the ‘Club.’ ” Beltran claimed this
benign and indisputable fact was disputed: “Disputed.  Although Plaintiff was already working at Hard
Rock when Defendant Shepherd was hired, Plaintiff's hire date was on or around February
10, 2017, as that's when her Labor Code § 2810.5 Notice was filled out.” This response
did not, in fact, dispute HRH's statement, and the response should have been “undisputed.”
If Beltran's hire date was a material fact (and we do not see why it was – at best,
it was background information) it should be listed under the opposing party's additional
facts with supporting evidence. The quoted paragraph is far from the only example
of this problem in Beltran's responses.
As we mentioned, one of the purposes of the Separate
Statement is “to permit the trial court to focus on whether [the material] facts
are truly undisputed.”  (Parkview Villas
Assn., Inc. v. State Farm Fire & Casualty Co., supra, 133 Cal.App.4th
at p. 1210, 35 Cal.Rptr.3d 411.)  This can
only be accomplished by both parties preparing the Separate Statement according
to the statute and Rules of Court and acting in good faith.  The moving party must include only material
statements of fact, not incidental and background facts. The opposing party must
concede facts that are truly undisputed and only add facts that are material.  It is difficult to conceive of a properly drafted
Separate Statement that includes over 600 paragraphs of undisputed material facts.
Trial courts should not hesitate to deny summary judgment
motions when the moving party fails to draft a compliant separate statement – and
an inappropriate separate statement includes an overly long document that includes
multiple nonmaterial facts in violation of the Rules of Court.  Courts should also not hesitate to disregard attempts
to game the system by the opposing party claiming facts are “disputed” when the
uncontroverted evidence clearly shows otherwise.
(Id. at pp. 874-876, footnotes omitted.)
“[A] document that was intended to be helpful to the
court and provide due process to the parties [citation] is, in many cases, no longer
serving either purpose.”  (Id. at p. 874.)  The separate statements
here do not serve their intended purposes. 
Despite
the parties’ lengthy separate statements, is not clear to the Court what material
facts are undisputed or disputed.  The parties
frequently set forth evidentiary facts rather than ultimate facts, which bury the
actual undisputed (or disputed) issues that are material to this motion.  The separate statements must be revised to include
only material facts pertinent to the disposition
of the motion.  The parties may keep the same
numbering for each fact in order to maintain accurate references within the briefing,
but they must omit non-material facts.  The
Court expects the revised separate statements to be significantly shorter and more
focused.
Defendants
are ordered to send their revised separate statement to Plaintiff no later than
September 12, 2024.
Plaintiff is ordered to send his response to Defendants’
separate
statement, along with Plaintiff’s revised separate statement of additional disputed
facts, to Defendants no later than September 19, 2024.
The
parties are ordered to jointly file the revised separate statements and responses
no later than September 26, 2024.
The Hearing on Motion for Summary Adjudication is CONTINUED
to October 8, 2024 at 8:30 a.m.
MOTION
FOR ATTORNEY FEES
In the Court’s order granting Plaintiff leave to file
a SAC, the Court “condition[ed] the amended pleading on the Plaintiff reimbursing
Defendants’ costs incurred in preparing the Motion for Summary Judgment that will
now be rendered moot by the SAC.”  The Court
vacated the hearing on the motion for summary judgment and scheduled a hearing on
a motion for attorney fees.
On
June 21, 2024, Defendants filed a motion for attorney fees incurred in connection
with its motion for summary judgment on calendar.  However, the day before, the parties filed a joint
stipulation to keep the motion for summary judgment on calendar as a motion for
summary adjudication.
Defendants
contend that “even though ALFA was able to convert its MSJ to a Motion for Summary
Adjudication, the fact remains that this will not completely dispose of the matter
against ALFA and since GEE’s additional claims have no merit, ALFA will have to
bear the expense of filing a second Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative,
Summary Adjudication.”  (Motion at p. 4.)  That may be true, but that is still speculative.  Fees on a second motion may be attributed to the
amendments and additions in the SAC, but at this time, Defendants have not been
prejudiced by the filing of the SAC.  The
motion for which Defendants seek attorney fees is no longer moot, and Defendants
will receive a ruling on their motion.
The motion for attorney fees is DENIED.
MOTION TO QUASH SUBPOENA
On
March 26, 2024, Plaintiff served Defendants with a Notice to Consumer or Employee
and Objection, along with a Deposition Subpoena for Production of Business Records,
seeking documents from Mirhosseini Law Group APC (“MLG”).  (Starr Decl. ¶ 5 & Ex. 1.)  The subpoena specifically requested (1) “Any and
all DOCUMENTS reflecting, referring, or relating to any and all communications between
YOU and YANG from January 2022 through March 2024”; (2) “Any and all DOCUMENTS reflecting,
referring, or relating to the declaration executed by YANG on March 13, 2023, including
any drafts of the declaration and communication and memoranda related to the declaration”;
(3) “Any and all DOCUMENTS YOU received from YANG”; and (4) “Any and all DOCUMENTS
YOU gave to YANG.”
On
April 22, 2024, Defendants filed a motion to quash the subpoena as to Request No.
2 on the grounds of attorney-client privilege and attorney work-product.
“The
attorney-client privilege is an absolute privilege that prevents disclosure, no
matter how necessary or relevant to the lawsuit.”  (DP Pham, LLC v. Cheadle (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th
653, 659.)  “Once the proponent makes a prima
facie showing of a confidential attorney-client communication, it is presumed the
communication is privileged and the burden shifts to the opponent to establish waiver,
an exception, or that the privilege does not for some other reason apply.  The opponent may not rely on the communication’s
content to make that showing.”  (Id.
at pp. 659-660.)  Additionally, “[a] writing
that reflects an attorney’s impressions, conclusions, opinions, or legal research
or theories is not discoverable under any circumstances.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2018.030, subd. (a).)
Plaintiff
argues that Defendants waived the privilege with respect to Yang’s declaration.  According to Plaintiff, “it is apparent that someone
from MLG drafted the Yang declaration on the firm’s caption without any input on
the content from Yang and without any comments from Kalantari.”  (Opposition at p. 4.)  Plaintiff cites some of Kalantari’s deposition
testimony where he stated that he saw no previous drafts of the declaration before
Yang signed it, did not know who drafted the declaration, and knew that Yang had
not communicated with Kalantari’s attorneys regarding the content of the declaration.  (Ibid.)  Kalantari physically brought the declaration to
Yang for him to sign, and he just gave Yang the declaration and asked him to sign
it.  (Ibid.)  According to Plaintiff, “[t]he content of the
declaration generated solely by attorney-client communications was shared with Yang
when Kalantari asked him to sign the declaration and shared with Gee when it was
produced in discovery,” and “[t]he content came entirely from Kalantari and MLG
and was disclosed to all the parties in this litigation, waiving any alleged privilege
previously covering the communications of the content of the declaration.”  (Id. at pp. 6-7.)
A
request for all documents “reflecting, referring, or relating to” Yang’s declaration
is overbroad and facially requests documents that may be privileged communications
or attorney work product.  Specifically, drafts
of the declaration and writings related to the declaration are not discoverable.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2018.030, subd. (a).)  Plaintiff’s argument would mean that virtually
all parties waive all privilege about all material issues of their cases because
the communications related to the drafting of any declaration would be discoverable.
Plaintiff
also argues that the privilege does not apply to an attempted fraud on the Court.  Plaintiff cites Yang’s testimony that he did not
read the declaration, he signed it because Kalantari made him, and the material
statements in the declaration are false. 
(Opposition at pp. 7-8.)  This alone
is insufficient for the Court to find that Defendants are engaging in a crime or
fraud that waives the privilege under Evidence Code section 956.
The
motion to quash subpoena is GRANTED as to Request No. 2.
Clerk
to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 16th day of July 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 