  Case Number:  24PSCV00342    Hearing Date:   April 2, 2024    Dept:  G Plaintiff Eric Zhang & Associates LLP’s Application
for Leave to Commence Limited Non-Party Discovery
Respondent: NO OPPOSITION
TENTATIVE RULING
Plaintiff Eric Zhang & Associates LLP’s Application
for Leave to Commence Limited Non-Party Discovery is GRANTED.
BACKGROUND
This is a defamation action.
Plaintiff Eric Zhang & Associates LLP (Eric Zhang & Associates) is an
accounting firm based in California that provides accounting and tax services
to Chinese American businesses and individuals. Its managing partner, Eric
Zhang, is a certified public accountant and has served as president of the
Sino-American Certified Public Accountants Association (SACPAA) since January
2021. Upon Zhang’s election as president of the SACPAA, EZ&A alleges a
group of unknown individuals including John Doe and Does 2-25 began targeting
EZ&A with allegedly false and defamatory reviews on Google.com,
Glassdor.com, and Indeed.com. EZ&A alleges the Doe Defendants are business
competitors or other members of the SACPAA.
On February 1, 2024, EZ&A
filed a complaint against Does 1-25, alleging the following causes of action:
(1) defamation, (2) trade libel, (3) online impersonation, and (4) unfair
competition.
On February 6, 2024, EZ&A
filed the present application. A hearing on their application is set for April
2 with a case management conference and OSC Re: Failure to File Proof of
Service set for July 1.
ANALYSIS
EZ&A
seek leave from the court to conduct limited non-party discovery with the aim
of identifying the Doe Defendants. For the following reasons, the court GRANTS their application.
Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 2019.020, subdivision (b), “on motion and
for good cause shown, the court may establish the sequence and timing of
discovery for the convenience of parties and witnesses and in the interests of
justice.” Furthermore, while a plaintiff may generally only serve a deposition
notice twenty days after the service of or appearance by a defendant, “[o]n
motion with or without notice, the court, for good cause shown, may grant to a
plaintiff leave to serve a deposition notice on an earlier date.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.210, subd. (b).) In this case, EZ&A argues good cause
supports allowing them to serve discovery before the appearance or service of
the defendants as the discovery will assist them in obtaining those defendants’
identities. In particular, EZ&A seek leave to serve deposition subpoenas on
Google, Glassdoor, and Indeed.
In Pearlson
v. Does 1 To 646 (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th 1005 (Pearlson), a plaintiff
filed a similar request seeking leave to serve deposition subpoenas on
nonparties with the aim of obtaining the identities of the Doe defendants. (Id.,
at p. 1007.) In denying plaintiff’s request, the trial court found the
plaintiff failed to demonstrate good cause as the category of Doe defendants
was too broad. (Id., at p. 1008-1009.) The Court of Appeal agreed,
holding plaintiff’s request was a mere fishing expedition and lacked good
cause. (Id., at p. 1011.)
Unlike
Pearlson, the present case does not involve a broad category of Doe
Defendants. Rather, it is limited to individuals who made specific comments,
reviews, or posts about EZ&A on Google, Glassdoor, and Indeed. Furthermore,
the court finds good cause exists as obtaining identifying information about
these Doe Defendants is a necessary step to locating and serving them.
Accordingly,
EZ&A’s application is GRANTED.
CONCLUSION
Based on the foregoing, EZ&A’s
application for leave to conduct limited non-party discovery is GRANTED.