 Case Number:  21STCV20773    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
            



CITY OF COMMERCE,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
CARLOS GALVAN JR., et al.,
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV20773




Hearing Date:


November 13, 2024




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
 
CITY OF
  COMMERCE’S MOTION TO ENFORCE SETTLEMENT



 
Background 
Plaintiff City of Commerce
(“Plaintiff”) filed this action on June 2, 2021 against Defendant Carlos Galvan
Jr. (“Defendant”). The Complaint alleges causes of action for 
(1) public nuisance and injunctive relief,
(2) municipal code violations, and (3) declaratory relief. Plaintiff alleges, inter
alia, that “[t]his Complaint is filed by the City for the purposes of
abating a public nuisance and enjoining the maintenance and commission of local
and state law violations on that certain real property located at 1333 South
McBride Ave., Commerce, in the County of Los Angeles, California…” (Compl., ¶
2.) 
On March 22, 2023, a
“Settlement Agreement Between City of Commerce and Carlos Galvan Jr.; Order”
was filed in this action. The Order is dated March 21, 2023 and provides, inter
alia, that “[t]he case is dismissed without prejudice and the Court retains
jurisdiction pursuant to CCP section 664.6.” 
Plaintiff moved “for an order
enforcing the settlement agreement entered into by and between the parties
before this Court on March 8, 2023 and approved by the Court on March 21, 2023.”
Defendant opposed.
On October 24, 2024, the
Court issued an order continuing the hearing on Plaintiff’s motion to enforce
settlement to November 13, 2024. The Court’s October 24, 2024 Order provides, inter
alia, that “[i]n light of Defendant’s untimely filing and service of the
opposition, as well as the arguments raised therein, the Court finds that
further briefing is appropriate regarding the issue of Defendant’s compliance
with the Settlement Agreement.” (October 24, 2024 Order at p. 7:3-5.) The October
24, 2024 Order further provides “[o]n or before 11/5, 2024, Plaintiff may file
and serve supplemental briefing that addresses the points raised in Defendant’s
opposition. Courtesy copies must be delivered to Dept. 50.” (Id. at p. 7:10-12.) 
            On
November 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a supplemental reply in support of its motion
to enforce settlement agreement. 
Discussion 
“If parties to pending litigation
stipulate, in a writing signed by the parties outside of the presence of the
court or orally before the court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof,
the court, upon motion, may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the
settlement. If requested by the parties, the court may retain jurisdiction over
the parties to enforce the settlement until performance in full of the terms of
the settlement.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 664.6, subd. (a).)

“Although a judge hearing
a section 664.6 motion may receive
evidence, determine disputed facts, and enter the terms of a settlement
agreement as a judgment, nothing in section 664.6 authorizes
a judge to create the
material terms of a settlement, as opposed to deciding what terms the parties themselves have previously
agreed upon.” ((Weddington Productions, Inc. v.
Flick (1998) 60 Cal.App.4th 793, 810
[internal citations omitted, emphasis in original].) 
As discussed in the Court’s
October 24, 2024 Order, on March 22, 2023, a “Settlement Agreement Between City
of Commerce and Carlos Galvan Jr.” (herein, the “Settlement Agreement”) was
filed in this action. The Court notes that the Settlement Agreement provides, inter
alia, that “[t]his AGREEMENT concerns GALVAN’s property located at 1333
South McBride Avenue in Commerce, Assessor’s Parcel No. 524-4001-009, County of
Los Angeles, State of California (‘subject property’).” (Settlement Agreement,
p. 2.) 
The Settlement Agreement
further provides that “the PARTIES agree as follows with respect to the three
(3) scenarios and outcomes arising from the inspection of GALVAN’ s subject
structure:  
 
(1) First Scenario: The engineer’s
inspection results in the finding that GALVAN’s subject property can be
repaired and made to comply with all above code provisions and the cost of all
repairs is affordable to GALVAN. In this scenario, GALVAN agrees to effectuate
all repairs and correct all violations on his subject property (as identified
and listed in Exhibit ‘A’ to this AGREEMENT) and allow the CITY to conduct an
inspection of same thereafter. 
 
a.     
In
the event Galvan seeks a permit of the subject structure as an Accessory
Dwelling Unit, as a duplex or as a second single family residence, Galvan shall
modify the subject structure, as necessary, so that it is in compliance with
the L.A. County Code and the City of Commerce Code including but not limited to
Title 15 and Title 19.
 
(2) Second Scenario: The engineer’s
inspection results in the finding that GALVAN’s subject property can be
repaired and made to comply with all above code provisions, but the costs of
these repairs are not affordable to GALVAN. In this scenario, GALVAN agrees to
the demolition of the entire subject structure.
 
a.     
In
this 2nd scenario, if GALVAN ever decides to sell the property located at 1333
South McBride Avenue in Commerce, Assessor’s Parcel No. 524-4001-009, County of
Los Angeles, State of California, GALVAN will make all required disclosures to
the potential buyer(s) as required by existing law including, but not limited
to, all the Code violations existing on the subject property as outlined in
Exhibit ‘A.’ GALVAN further agrees to comply with all existing legal
requirements in the sale of same. The City of Commerce does not waive any of
its rights existing under law nor pursuant to this AGREEMENT.
 
(3) Third Scenario: The engineer’s
inspection results in the finding that GALVAN’s subject property cannot be
repaired to comply with all above code provisions. In this scenario, GALVAN
agrees to the demolition of the entire subject structure.
 
(4) For any of the scenarios listed above, GALVAN may apply for a
variance or conditional use permit. The CITY shall consider any such
application as it would in the ordinary course of business and use its
discretion in granting or denying it. Nothing in this paragraph obligates the
CITY to grant any application for variance or conditional use permit.
 
(5) As to the above 3 scenarios outlined
in paragraphs 1 (b)(1)-(3), GALVAN agrees that he will have no more than 195
days to cure all subject violations on his property, or to demolish in its
entirety. In the event GALVAN applies for a variance or conditional use permit,
the 195-day deadline will toll starting from the date GALVAN’s application for
variance or conditional use permit is filed/submitted with the CITY to the date
that the CITY issues its decision on grant or denial of GALVAN’s application
for a variance or conditional use permit.” (Settlement Agreement, ¶ 1(b).) 
In support of the instant
motion, Plaintiff submits the Declaration of Louis Morales, the Interim
Director of Economic Development and Planning for the City of Commerce.
(Morales Decl., ¶ 1.) Mr. Morales states that “[t]o date, Defendant Carlos
Galvan has not complied with the terms of the Settlement Agreement (Exhibit ‘A’).
To date, Defendant Galvan has not cured any of the structural defects as
outlined in the Settlement Agreement. Defendant Galvan has not submitted any
formal approved plans for the correction of the subject structural defects as
outlined in the Settlement Agreement. Further, Defendant Galvan has not even
submitted an application to the City for the variance that he adamantly
demanded as a provision of the instant Settlement Agreement. In sum, Defendant
Galvan’s Illegal Structure on 1333 South McBride Avenue in Commerce, Assessor’s
Parcel No. 524-4001-009, County of Los Angeles, State of California remains
uncured. According to the Settlement Agreement, Defendant Galvan had 195 days
to either cure all defects or demolish the Illegal Structure – that is, October
2, 2023.” (Morales Decl., ¶ 4.) As discussed, on March 21, 2023 the Court
issued an Order on the subject Settlement Agreement. (See Settlement
Agreement filed March 22, 2023.) The Court notes that 195 days after March 21,
2023 is October 2, 2023. 
Plaintiff asserts that “Defendant
Galvan’s failure to cure the subject Code violations is a material breach of
the Settlement Agreement. Accordingly, the City respectfully requests that the
Court enforce the terms of the Settlement Agreement and – per the Settlement
Agreement – order destruction of the Illegal Structure.” (Mot. at p. 7:25-28.) 
Plaintiff also asserts that
“per the Settlement Agreement and Stipulated Order, Defendant Galvan should be
ordered to pay the City $41,000.00.” (Mot. at p. 8:7-8.) The Court notes that the
Settlement Agreement provides that “[t]he PARTIES further agree to a stipulated
judgment [‘Stipulated Judgment’] in the amount of $41,000.00 less any amounts
already paid. In the event that GALVAN fails to comply with the terms of the
instant agreement, GALVAN agrees that the CITY is entitled to file the
Stipulated Judgment in the amount of $41,000.00 less any amounts already paid.
In the event the Stipulated Judgment is filed, interest on the judgment only
accrues after the date it is filed.” (Settlement Agreement, ¶ 1(a).)
Defendant opposes the
motion. In his declaration in support of the opposition, Defendant states that “[i]n
order to fulfill all of the requirements of the agreement…and cure the defects
in my property…I was informed by the city to first submit a set of plans for
their review and approval.” (Galvan Jr. Decl., ¶ 5.) Defendant states that
“[o]n June 27, 2023, a first set of plans for review of the 2-story dwelling at
my property was delivered to Sonia Griego, who works for the City…Around that
time, I requested from Ms. Griego, a packet so I may submit [sic] an
application for a Variance permit which I submitted, however, I was told by Ms.
Griego that prior to the Variance permit being approved, the Planning Division
needed to approve all plans first.” (Galvan Jr. Decl., ¶ 6.) 
Defendant states that “[o]n
July 17, 2023, I received a letter from Ms. Griego that the plans I had
submitted were incomplete and she gave me a list of comments for me to fix and
told me to re-submit the plans with those resolved issues.” (Galvan Jr. Decl.,
¶ 7.) Defendant states that “[a]round August 2023, I submitted my 2nd
set of plans to the city for their review. A little over a month later, I was
informed again that the plans needed new corrections.” (Galvan Jr. Decl., ¶ 8.)
Defendant further states that “[o]n March 3, 2024, a revised 3rd set
of plans was submitted for review and approval by Ruben Calderon…Ms. Griego
responded on March 6th that she had received the plans and would
accurately review them and get back to me, but this never occurred.” (Galvan
Jr. Decl., ¶ 9.) 
Defendant states that “[a]fter submitting the 3rd set of
plans to the city, I began to call and email the city on a frequent basis but
they were not responding to me.” (Galvan Jr. Decl., ¶ 10.) Defendant states
that “I continued with my constant communications and even reached out to the
city’s administration department and still received no response.” (Galvan Jr.
Decl., ¶ 13.) 
In the opposition, Defendant asserts that the instant motion is
premature, as “the 195-day deadline is paused due to the Variance Permit that
the Defendant applied for.” (Opp’n at p. 3:23-24.) Defendant asserts that he
“actively took steps to comply with the agreement and even applied for the
Variance permit which was within his right to do. The Plaintiffs [sic] are in
breach of the Settlement Agreement by failing to respect the toll that needed
to be set in place once the Defendant applied for the variance permit.” (Opp’n
at p. 5:3-6.) 
As discussed above, the
Settlement Agreement provides, inter alia, as follows: 
 
(4) For any of the scenarios listed above, GALVAN may apply for a
variance or conditional use permit. The CITY shall consider any such
application as it would in the ordinary course of business and use its
discretion in granting or denying it. Nothing in this paragraph obligates the
CITY to grant any application for variance or conditional use permit.
 
(5) As to the above 3 scenarios outlined
in paragraphs 1 (b)(1)-(3), GALVAN agrees that he will have no more than 195
days to cure all subject violations on his property, or to demolish in its
entirety. In the event GALVAN applies for a variance or conditional use
permit, the 195-day deadline will toll starting from the date GALVAN’s
application for variance or conditional use permit is filed/submitted with the
CITY to the date that the CITY issues its decision on grant or denial of
GALVAN’s application for a variance or conditional use permit.” (Settlement
Agreement, ¶ 1(b), emphasis added.) 
            In
its supplemental reply, Plaintiff asserts that “Galvan’s representation that he
applied for a variance is false – he never submitted an application for
variance – and no time is tolled.” (Suppl. Reply at p. 2:2-4.) Plaintiff also
asserts that “[s]imilarly, there is no ‘third application’ pending with the
City - - this, again, is a false statement.” (Suppl. Reply at p. 2:21-22.) 
            In
connection with the supplemental reply, Plaintiff submits the Declaration of Sonia
Griego, who states that “[during the pertinent time period, I was the Associate
Planner for the City of Commerce.” (Griego Decl., ¶ 2.) Ms. Griego states that
“I am informed and believe that Carlos Galvan claims that he has submitted an
application for a variance with the City, which tolls the time in connection
with the Settlement Agreement that is the subject of the City’s instant Motion
to Enforce the Settlement Agreement. To date, Carlos Galvan has not submitted
an application to the City for a variance in relation to his illegal structure
on 1333 South McBride Avenue in Commerce, Assessor’s Parcel No. 524-4001-009, County
of Los Angeles, State of California.” (Griego Decl., ¶ 3.) Ms. Griego also
states that “I am informed and believe that Carlos Galvan claims that his 3rd
set of plans are pending approval. That is untrue. To date, there is no third
application pending with respect to formal approved plans for the correction of
the subject structural defects as outlined in the Settlement Agreement. I
attached hereto as Exhibit ‘1’ emails from Mr. Galvan in connection with the
3rd set of plans (which were submitted on March 5, 2024 – 6 months after the
October 2, 2023 deadline per the Settlement Agreement) and from Mr. Galvan’s
designer, Ruben Calderon, formally withdrawing the 3rd set of plans shortly
thereafter eight (8) days later on March 13, 2024. Therefore, no 3rd set of
plans is pending with the City.” (Griego Decl., ¶ 4.) 
            As
discussed above, the Settlement Agreement provides, inter alia, that
“[a]s to the above 3 scenarios outlined in paragraphs 1(b)(1)-(3), GALVAN
agrees that he will have no more than 195 days to cure all subject violations
on his property, or to demolish in its entirety. In the event GALVAN applies
for a variance or conditional use permit, the 195-day deadline will toll
starting from the date GALVAN’s application for variance or conditional use
permit is filed/submitted with the CITY to the date that the CITY issues its
decision on grant or denial of GALVAN’s application for a variance or
conditional use permit.” (Settlement Agreement, ¶ 1(b)(5).) Defendant does not
provide evidence that he cured all of the subject violations on his property, or
that he demolished it in its entirety. 
            Based
on the foregoing, the Court finds that Plaintiff has demonstrated that the
Court should issue “an order enforcing the settlement agreement.” (Notice of
Mot. at p. 2:5.) As set forth above, Plaintiff also requests that the Court “order
the destruction of the Illegal Structure.” (Mot. at p. 8:11.) As discussed, Code of Civil Procedure section 664.6, subdivision (a)
provides that “[i]f parties to pending litigation stipulate, in a writing
signed by the parties outside of the presence of the court or orally before the
court, for settlement of the case, or part thereof, the court, upon motion, may
enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the settlement…” (Emphasis added.) Here,
the Settlement Agreement does not appear to contain any provision providing for
the Court to “order the destruction of the Illegal Structure,” and Plaintiff
does not appear to point to any such provision. Rather, as discussed, the
Settlement Agreement provides, inter alia, that “[a]s to the above 3
scenarios outlined in paragraphs 1(b)(1)-(3), GALVAN agrees that he will have
no more than 195 days to cure all subject violations on his property, or to
demolish in its entirety.” (Settlement Agreement, ¶ 1(b)(5).) As noted above,
“nothing in¿¿section 664.6¿¿authorizes a judge to¿create¿the
material terms of a settlement, as opposed to deciding what terms¿the
parties themselves¿have previously agreed upon.” (¿¿Weddington
Productions, Inc. v. Flick, supra, 60 Cal.App.4th at p. 810 [emphasis
in original]¿¿.) Thus, the Court denies Plaintiff’s request that the Court “order
the destruction of the Illegal Structure.” (Mot. at p. 8:11.)
Lastly, as discussed, Plaintiff
also asserts that “per the Settlement Agreement and Stipulated Order, Defendant
Galvan should be ordered to pay the City $41,000.00.” (Mot. at p. 8:7-8). As
set forth above, the Settlement Agreement provides that “[t]he PARTIES further
agree to a stipulated judgment [‘Stipulated Judgment’] in the amount of
$41,000.00 less any amounts already paid. In the event that GALVAN fails to
comply with the terms of the instant agreement, GALVAN agrees that the CITY is
entitled to file the Stipulated Judgment in the amount of $41,000.00 less any
amounts already paid. In the event the Stipulated Judgment is filed, interest
on the judgment only accrues after the date it is filed.” (Settlement
Agreement, ¶ 1(a).) Thus, the Settlement Agreement provides that Plaintiff is
entitled to “file the Stipulated Judgment in the amount of $41,000.00” in the
event that Defendant fails to comply with the terms of the Settlement
Agreement. As discussed, under Code of Civil Procedure
section 664.6, the Court may enter judgment pursuant to the terms of the
settlement, the Court may not create material terms of a settlement. (Weddington
Productions, Inc. v. Flick, supra, 60 Cal.App.4th at p. 810.)
Thus, the Court will enter judgment in accordance with the terms of the
Stipulation for Entry of Judgment attached to the Declaration of Lee as Exhibit
B. Plaintiff is ordered to file and serve a proposed judgment within 5 days of
the date of this order. 
 
Conclusion 
Based
on the foregoing, Plaintiff’s motion pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 664.6 for an order enforcing the Settlement Agreement is
granted except as to the request to order the destruction of the Illegal
Structure.
Plaintiff
is ordered to provide notice of this ruling. 
 
DATED:  November 13, 2024                       ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A. Beaudet
Judge, Los Angeles Superior Court 