 Case Number:  24STCV05672    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




CARICE JUANETTE HILL,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
PREMIER INFUSION &
  HEALTHCARE SERVICES, INC., et
  al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


24STCV05672




Hearing Date:


November 13, 2024




Hearing
  Time:   10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER
  RE:
 
DEFENDANTS
  PREMIER INFUSION & HEALTHCARE SERVICES, INC.; JOSEPHINE AMBROCIO; VICTOR
  RIVAS; AND LAURA SPELLMAN’S MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION AND STAY ACTION




            
Background
On March 6, 2024, Plaintiff Carice Juanette
Hill (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Premier Infusion
& Healthcare Services, Inc. (“PIHS”), Josephine Ambrocio, Victor Rivas, and
Laura Spellman (collectively, “Defendants”). 
The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) discrimination based
upon physical disability, (2) failure to prevent discrimination, (3)
retaliation in violation of public policy, 
(4)
harassment due to physical disability, (5) failure to accommodate physical
disability, 
(6)
failure to engage in a good faith interactive process, (7) wrongful termination
in violation of public policy, (8) failure to provide meal periods, (9) failure
to provide rest periods, (10) waiting time penalties, (11) failure to pay wages
due at termination, (12) failure to reimburse business expenses, (13) failure
to pay uniform maintenance allowance, (14) failure to allow inspection of
employment records, and (15) unfair competition.
Defendants now move for an order compelling arbitration of Plaintiff’s
claims and staying all proceedings until completion of binding arbitration.
Plaintiff opposes.  
Legal Standard
In a motion to compel
arbitration, the moving party must prove by a preponderance of evidence the
existence of the arbitration agreement and that the dispute is covered by the
agreement. The burden then shifts to the resisting party to prove by a preponderance
of evidence a ground for denial (e.g.,
fraud, unconscionability, etc.). ((Rosenthal
v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413-414.)  
Generally, on a petition
to compel arbitration, the court must grant the petition unless it finds either
(1) no written agreement to arbitrate exists; (2) the right to compel
arbitration has been waived; (3) grounds exist for revocation of the agreement;
or (4) litigation is pending that may render the arbitration unnecessary or
create conflicting rulings on common issues. ((Code
Civ. Proc., § 1281.2); (Condee v. Longwood Management Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.) 
“California has a strong
public policy in favor of arbitration and any doubts regarding the
arbitrability of a dispute are resolved in favor of arbitration.” ((Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California
(2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general rule that
arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with assurance that an
arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the
asserted dispute.” ((Ibid. [internal
quotations omitted].) This is in accord with the
liberal federal policy favoring arbitration agreements under the Federal
Arbitration Act (“FAA”), which governs all agreements to arbitrate in contracts
“involving interstate commerce.” (9 U.S.C. section 2,
et seq.; (Higgins v. Superior Court (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 1238, 1247.) 
            Discussion
A.    Existence of Arbitration Agreement
In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia,
that she “began working for PIHS on or about February 1, 2023 and was
wrongfully terminated on or about January 30, 2024. Plaintiff’s job position
was Payroll Coordinator.” (Compl., ¶ 13.) Plaintiff alleges that she “was
denied a work environment free of disability discrimination.” (Compl., ¶ 14.) 
In support of the motion, Defendants submit the Declaration of Sammy
Refua, who is “the Chief Executive Officer at Premier Infusion & Healthcare
Services, Inc. and [has] been employed with Premier Infusion & Healthcare
Services, Inc, since its inception.” (Refua Decl., ¶ 2.) Mr. Refua states that
“[u]pon hiring, Premier Infusion & Healthcare Services, Inc. employees
receive an email directly from DocuSign containing a link to the document
signature process. This email, exclusively provided to each new hire, including
[Plaintiff], is created such that no individual other than the employee
receiving the link has access to the employee signature fields.” (Refua Decl.,
¶ 5.) 
Mr. Refua states that “I conducted a thorough review of Premier
Infusion & Healthcare Services, Inc.’s business records and can confirm
that the Arbitration Agreement was sent to Plaintiff on January 23, 2023, via
DocuSign Envelope ID: A8D4A35E-E0FA-44B1-A471-67D92FBA506E, and that Plaintiff
opened the Arbitration Agreement on January 24, 2023, at 2:57 p.m. Plaintiff
thereafter signed Arbitration Agreement on January 24, 2023, at 3:46 p.m.”
(Refua Decl., ¶ 6.) Mr. Refua attaches as Exhibit 1 to his declaration a “copy
of Plaintiff’s Certificate of Completion.” (Refua Decl., ¶ 9, Ex. 1.) 
Mr. Refua further states that “[w]hen an individual signs a document
through DocuSign, such as the Arbitration Agreement, the system automatically
time and date-stamps the signed document. I further verified that Plaintiff
accessed and signed the Arbitration Agreement by reviewing Premier Infusion
& Healthcare Services, Inc.’s business records and locating and examining
the time and date-stamped Arbitration Agreement. Attached as Exhibit 2 is a
true and exact copy of the Arbitration Agreement bearing Plaintiff’s hand-drawn
electronic signature inside a text box labeled ‘DocuSigned by.’ These records
confirm that Plaintiff utilized her unique DocuSign link to access and sign the
Arbitration Agreement on January 24, 2023. Again, the Arbitration Agreement
could only be electronically executed by Plaintiff using her individually
assigned DocuSign link.” (Refua Decl., ¶ 10.) 
Exhibit 2 to Mr. Refua’s declaration is titled “Mutual Agreement to
Arbitrate Employment-Related Disputes” (herein, the “Arbitration Agreement”). (Refua
Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. 2.) The Arbitration Agreement provides, inter alia,
that “[t]he Employer and Employee agree that any claim, complaint, or dispute
that relates in any way to the Parties’ employment relationship, whether based
in contract, tort, statute, fraud, misrepresentation or any other legal theory,
shall be submitted to binding arbitration administered by American Arbitration
Association in accordance with Employment Arbitration Rules and Mediation
Procedures.” (Refua Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. 2, ¶ 2.) The Arbitration Agreement further
provides as follows: 
 
“3.Covered
Claims. This Agreement to arbitrate covers all grievances, disputes,
claims, or causes of action (collectively, ‘claims’) in a federal, state or
local court or agency under applicable federal, state or local laws, arising
out of Employee’s employment with the Employer and the termination thereof,
including claims Employee may have against the Employer or against its
officers, directors, supervisors, managers, employees, or agents in their
capacity as such or otherwise, or that the Employer may have against Employee.
The claims covered by this Agreement include, but are not limited to, claims
for breach of any contract or covenant (express or implied), tort claims, and
claims for wrongful termination (constructive or actual) in violation of public
policy. (‘Covered Claims’).” (Refua Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. 2, ¶ 3, emphasis omitted.)

 
In addition, the
Arbitration Agreement provides as follows: 
 
“4.Claims Not
Covered. The parties to this Agreement specifically agree that all claims
under the West’s Annotated California Government Code §
12953 are not covered by this Agreement as well as claims for workers’
compensation, unemployment compensation benefits, administrative charges for
unfair labor practices brought before the National Labor Relations Board,
Excluded Claims (defined in Paragraph 5 below), claims for discrimination or
harassment (including, but not limited to, harassment or discrimination based
on race, sex, gender, religion, national origin, age, marital status, medical
condition, psychological condition, mental condition, disability, or sexual
orientation), claims for violation of any federal, state, or other governmental
law, statute, regulation, or ordinance, including, but not limited to, all
claims arising under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act, the Age Discrimination
in Employment Act, the Americans With Disabilities Act, the California Fair
Employment and Housing Act, the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act
of 1985, and Employee Retirement Income Security Act. The parties to this
Agreement specifically agree that all claims under the California Labor Code,
including, but not limited to, claims for overtime, unpaid wages, and claims
involving meal and rest breaks shall be subject to this Arbitration Agreement,
or any other claims that, as a matter of law, the Parties cannot agree to
arbitrate. Nothing in this Agreement shall be interpreted to mean that
employees are precluded from filing complaints with the California Department
of Fair Employment and Housing and/or federal Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission and National Labor Relations Board.” (Refua Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. 2, ¶
4.) 
            Defendants assert that accordingly,
“Plaintiff entered into a valid and enforceable arbitration agreement.” (Mot.
at p. 7:1.) Defendants assert that “Plaintiff’s Complaint, which states causes
of action for wrongful termination in violation of public policy, failure to
provide meal and rest periods, waiting time penalties, failure to pay wages due
at termination, failure to allow inspection of employment records, failure to
pay uniform maintenance allowance, and failure to reimburse business expenses
are clearly covered by the Arbitration Agreement by its express terms.
Therefore, the Court must order these causes of action to arbitration.” (Mot.
at p. 7:11-16.)  
As an initial matter, Defendants appear to concede that the subject
Arbitration Agreement does not cover all of the causes of action alleged
by Plaintiff in this action. As Plaintiff notes and as set forth above,
paragraph 4 of the Arbitration Agreement provides, inter alia, that “[t]he parties to this Agreement
specifically agree that all claims under the West’s Annotated California Government Code § 12953 are not covered by
this Agreement as well as…claims for discrimination or harassment
(including, but not limited to, harassment or discrimination based on race, sex,
gender, religion, national origin,
age, marital status, medical condition, psychological condition, mental
condition, disability, or sexual orientation), claims for violation of any federal,
state, or other governmental law, statute, regulation, or ordinance, including,
but not limited to, all claims arising under…the California Fair Employment and
Housing Act…” (Refua
Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. 2, ¶ 4, emphasis added.)[1] 
Accordingly, the Court does not find that the Arbitration Agreement
covers Plaintiff’s first cause of action for discrimination based on physical disability
in violation of Government Code, section 12940, subdivision
(a); the second cause of action for failure to prevent discrimination from
occurring in violation of Government Code section
12940, subdivision (k); the third cause of action for retaliation in
violation of public policy[2];
the fourth cause of action for harassment due to physical disability (Gov. Code, § 12940(a)); the fifth cause of action for
failure to accommodate physical disability in violation of Government Code section 12940, subdivision (m), the
sixth cause of action for failure to engage in a good faith interactive process
in violation of Government Code section 12940,
subdivision (n); the seventh cause of action for wrongful termination in
violation of public policy, Government Code section
12940, et seq.; and the fifteenth cause of action for unfair
competition in violation of Business and Professions
Code section 17200, et seq.[3] 
In addition, Plaintiff asserts that she “never consented to
arbitration.” (Opp’n at p. 6:3.) In her supporting declaration, Plaintiff
states, inter alia, “[t]o the best of my recollection, I did not receive
an email mentioning an arbitration agreement, and I was never informed about
any arbitration agreement during the hiring process or after becoming employed.”
(Hill Decl., ¶ 8.) Plaintiff states that “I have reviewed the electronic
signature on Ex. 1 to the Declaration of Sammy Refua supporting the Defendant’s
Motion. To the best of my knowledge, I did not electronically sign this
document, and I never authorized anyone at PISH or otherwise to sign an
arbitration agreement on my behalf.” (Hill Decl., ¶ 9.) Plaintiff cites to Bannister v. Marinidence Opco, LLC (2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 545,
where the Court of Appeal noted as follows: 
 
“Civil Code section 1633.9, subdivision (a) governs
the authentication of electronic signatures. It provides that an
electronic signature may be attributed to a person if ‘it was the act of the
person.’ (Id.,
§ 1633.9, subd. (a).) Further, ‘[t]he act of the person may be shown in any
manner, including a showing of the efficacy of any security procedure applied
to determine the person to which the electronic record or electronic signature
was attributable.’ (Ibid.) For example, a
party may establish that the electronic signature was ‘the act of the person’
by presenting evidence that a unique login and password known only to that
person was required to affix the electronic signature, along with evidence
detailing the procedures the person had to follow to electronically sign the
document and the accompanying security precautions.”
Plaintiff asserts that here, “Mr. Refua makes no effort to explain any
security protocols in place at PIHS to ensure that the person who receives and
electronically signs a document is its intended recipient and/or that nobody
other than the intended recipient has access to the recipient’s email account.
At best, Defendants have shown that someone signed the DocuSign linked to
Plaintiff’s email account but have not demonstrated in any way that Plaintiff
was the one to sign it nor how they could confirm such fact.” (Opp’n at p.
7:5-11.)
In the reply, Defendants assert that “Mr. Refua’s declaration clearly
outlines the process by which DocuSign signatures are made and authenticated.
DocuSign is a widely recognized electronic signature platform that employs
robust security measures, including unique login credentials and secure
transmission protocols, to ensure the authenticity of signatures. The use of
such a platform inherently provides a level of security and reliability that
supports the attribution of the electronic signature to Plaintiff.” (Reply at
p. 5:1-5.) However, Defendants do not cite to any evidence to support this
argument. 
Defendants assert that “Mr. Refua’s declaration, by detailing the use
of DocuSign, implicitly addresses the security procedures involved, thereby
meeting the statutory requirements for authentication.” (Reply at p. 5:6-7.) But
this argument appears to concede that Mr. Refua’s declaration does not
expressly set forth “the efficacy of any security procedure applied to
determine the person to which the electronic record or electronic signature was
attributable.”
(Bannister
v. Marinidence Opco, LLC, supra, 64 Cal.App.5th at p. 545.) 
Defendants also assert that “the overall process described by Mr.
Refua aligns with the standards set forth in Espejo, where the court
accepted the authentication based on the security measures and procedures
described in Castaneda v. Property Mgmt. Assocs., 2022 Cal. Super. LEXIS
78143.” (Reply at p. 5:8-10.)[4] 
In Espejo v. Southern California Permanente
Medical Group (2016) 246
Cal.App.4th 1047, 1050-1051, “Jay Espejo, M.D., sued defendants
Southern California Permanente Medical Group, Kaiser Foundation Health Plan,
Inc., Kaiser Foundation Hospitals, and Joseph Huang, M.D. (collectively,
defendants), alleging wrongful termination and whistleblower retaliation.
Defendants petitioned to compel arbitration pursuant to Espejo’s employment
agreement and associated documents. The trial court denied the petition,
finding that defendants failed to establish the existence of an enforceable
arbitration agreement between the parties. On appeal, defendants argue[d] the
trial court erred in reaching that conclusion, and in striking a supplemental
declaration filed in support of their petition. They further contend[ed]
the arbitration agreement was valid and neither procedurally nor substantively
unconscionable.” The Court of Appeal “conclude[d] the trial court erroneously
excluded the declaration as untimely and further, the declaration established
the existence of an agreement to arbitrate.” ((Id. at p. 1051.) The Court of Appeal
in Espejo found as follows:
 
“…we find the
supplemental Tellez declaration offered the critical factual connection that
the declarations in Ruiz lacked. Tellez detailed SCPMG’s
security precautions regarding transmission and use of an applicant’s unique
username and password, as well as the steps an applicant would have to take to
place his or her name on the signature line of the employment agreement and the
DRP. Based on this procedure, she concluded that the ‘name Jay Baniaga Espejo
could have only been placed on the signature pages of the employment agreement
and the DRP by someone using Dr. Espejo’s unique user name and password. …
[¶] Given this process for signing documents and protecting the privacy of the
information with unique and private user names and passwords, the electronic
signature was made by Dr. Espejo’ on the employment agreement and the DRP at
the date, time, and IP address listed on the documents. These details
satisfactorily meet the requirements articulated in Ruiz and
establish that the electronic signature on the DRP was ‘the act of’ Espejo (Civ. Code, § 1633.9, subd. (a)), and therefore provide
the necessary factual details to properly authenticate the document.” ((Id. at p.
1062.) 
But here, by contrast, Defendants do not point to evidence detailing
PIHS’s “security precautions regarding transmission and use of an applicant’s
unique username and password,” or “the steps an applicant would have to take to
place his or her name on the signature line” of the subject Arbitration
Agreement. (Espejo v. Southern California Permanente
Medical Group, supra, 246
Cal.App.4th at p. 1062.) Defendants do not show a “process for signing
documents and protecting the privacy of the information with unique and private
user names and passwords.” ((Ibid.)
Rather, as set forth above, Mr. Refua solely indicates that “[u]pon hiring,
Premier Infusion & Healthcare Services, Inc. employees receive an email
directly from DocuSign containing a link to the document signature process.
This email, exclusively provided to each new hire, including [Plaintiff], is
created such that no individual other than the employee receiving the link has
access to the employee signature fields.” (Refua Decl., ¶ 5.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that Defendants have
provided sufficient evidence demonstrating that the electronic signature on the
subject Arbitration Agreement was “the act of” Plaintiff. (Civ. Code, §
1633.9, subd. (a).) As Defendants acknowledge, “[w]here, as here, the respondent challenges the
validity of the signature…the petitioner must establish by a preponderance of
the evidence that the signature was authentic.” (Bannister
v. Marinidence Opco, LLC, supra,
64 Cal.App.5th at page 544
[internal quotations omitted].) The Court does not find that Defendants
have met this burden here. 
In light of the foregoing, the Court does not find that Defendants have demonstrated
that an arbitration agreement exists between the parties. Thus, the Court need
not analyze Plaintiff’s arguments pertaining to
unconscionability.  
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion to compel arbitration is
denied. 
///
///
///
///
Plaintiff is ordered to provide notice of this Order.¿ 
 
DATED:  November 13, 2024                                   
________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


