 Case Number:  23STCV29498    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



CRISTINA ARSENE, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
SANTA MONICA COMMUNITY
  COLLEGE, et al.
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV29498




Hearing Date:


November 13, 2024




 Hearing Time:    10:00
  a.m.
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
DEMURRER
  TO PLAINTIFF’S FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT FOR DAMAGES;
 
MOTION TO
  STRIKE PORTIONS OF FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 



            
Background
Plaintiff Cristina Arsene (“Plaintiff”)
filed this action on December 1, 2023 against Defendant Santa Monica Community
College.  
On January 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed
the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), alleging causes of action for
(1) failure to provide compliant meal periods, (2) failure to provide compliant
rest periods, (3) wage statement penalties, (4) violation of Unfair Competition
Law, (5) Private Attorneys General Act, (6) disability discrimination, (7)
failure to engage in the in the interactive process, and (8) failure to
accommodate. 
Defendant Santa Monica Community College District, erroneously sued as
Santa Monica Community College (“Defendant”) now demurs to each of the causes
of action of the FAC. Defendant also moves to strike portions of the FAC. Plaintiff
filed a “response” to the demurrer and motion to strike.
Procedural Issues 
As an initial matter, in its reply, Defendant
states that it “asks the Court to disregard [Plaintiff’s] one-page response as
Plaintiff failed to serve the document and file a proof of service on counsel. Defendant
SMCCD only learned a document was filed when
it checked the LASC website and case docket…” (Reply at p. 1:27-2:1.) Indeed,
Plaintiff’s “Response to Demurrer Hearing and Motion to Strike” filed on
October 21, 2024 does not attach any proof of service. It does not appear that
Plaintiff filed any proof of service showing that the response was filed. Pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b),
“[a]ll papers opposing a motion so noticed shall be filed with the court and a
copy served on each party at least nine court days, and all reply papers at
least five court days before the hearing.” Because Defendant filed a reply
addressing Plaintiff’s response, the Court exercises its discretion to consider
the response. But in any event, Plaintiff’s response does not address any of
the arguments raised in Defendant’s demurrer or motion to strike. The response
does not cite any legal authority or appear to make any coherent argument.
In addition, the Court notes that on November 4, 2024, Plaintiff filed
a “Response to Defendant’s Reply to Plaintiff’s Response to Defendant’s
Demurrer and Motion to Strike First Amended Complaint for Damages.” Plaintiff
does not demonstrate that she was authorized to file such a document. In
addition, it does not appear that any proof of service was filed with this
response. Accordingly, the Court declines to consider Plaintiff’s November 4,
2024 response.
The Court also notes that on May 21, 2024, the
Court “electronically received” a request for dismissal in this action. The
request for dismissal indicates that Plaintiff dismisses without prejudice “ONLY
Causes of Action 1 through 5 (COA 1, 2, 3, 4, and, 5).” The request for
dismissal further indicates that dismissal was entered on May 21, 2024.
However, it does not appear that the request for dismissal was ever filed. Defendant
does not appear to address the request for dismissal in the demurrer or motion
to strike.
 
 
Demurrer 
A.    Legal Standard
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. ((Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” ((C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. ((Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” ((Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
A
pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. ((Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for
uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the
complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to
respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, footnote 2.)
However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a
complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified
under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v.
Maly’s of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)[1]¿ 
B.    Allegations
of the FAC 
In the FAC, Plaintiff
alleges that she “was employed by Defendants from June 6, 2016 to the present.”
(FAC, ¶ 7.) Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants failed to provide Plaintiff with
compliant meal breaks because meal breaks were regularly missed since Plaintiff
was only allowed to take a 15 min break instead of 30 minutes lunch period.”
(FAC, ¶ 8.) “Despite not being provided with compliant meal breaks, Defendants
did not pay premium pay for these missed breaks at Plaintiff’s regular rate of
pay.” (FAC, ¶ 9.) 
Plaintiff further
alleges that “Defendants failed to provide Plaintiff with compliant rest breaks
because were [sic] regularly missed because students would book appointments
during break times. On other occasions rest breaks were interrupted by the
supervisor asking for help or demanding to attend to outstanding tasks. On some
occasions the supervisor would follow Plaintiff to the rest room and knock on
the restroom door until she came out, interrupting her rest break.” (FAC, ¶
10.) “Despite not being provided with compliant rest breaks, Defendants did not
pay premium pay for these missed breaks at Plaintiff’s regular rate of pay.”
(FAC, ¶ 12.) Plaintiff alleges that “Defendants failed to provide Plaintiff
with accurate wage statements because the wage statements issued to Plaintiff
did not accurately list total wages owed and hours worked, among other things.”
(FAC, ¶ 13.) 
Plaintiff further
alleges that “Plaintiff has brain tumor which makes her extremely sensitive to
noise making it virtually impossible to concentrate which then increases her
cortisol levels. She is also very sensitive to air conditioning.” (FAC, ¶ 14.)
Plaintiff “went to the neurologist in May and provided a Dr. Note to the HR
Regina Rogers [sic] and her supervisor Wendy DeMorst requesting reasonable
accommodations.” (FAC, ¶ 15.) “Reasonable accommodations included a private
quite [sic] room where she could regulate the temperature or the ability to
work from home full time.” (FAC, ¶ 16.) “The campus had a number of these rooms
that could have been provided…” (FAC, ¶ 17.) “No interactive process was done
and no reasonable accommodations were provided.” (FAC, ¶ 18.) 
C.    First, Second, and Third Causes of
Action 
Defendant asserts that
the first cause of action for failure to provide compliant meal periods, the second
cause of action for failure to provide compliant rest periods, and the third cause
of action for wage statement penalties each fail. 
Defendant cites to Allen v. San Diego Convention Center Corp., Inc. (2022) 86 Cal.App.5th 589, 592,
where the Court of Appeal noted that “Sharlene Allen is a former
employee of the San Diego Convention Center Corporation, Inc.
(SDCCC). After SDCCC terminated Allen, she filed the present class action
lawsuit against SDCCC alleging various violations of the Labor Code. The trial
court largely sustained SDCCC’s demurrer to the complaint on the grounds that
the corporation was exempt from liability as a government entity. The court,
however, left intact one claim for untimely payment of final wages under Labor Code sections 201, 202, and 203…and derivative
claims under the unfair competition law (UCL, Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 17200 et seq.) and the Labor Code Private Attorneys
General Act of 2004 (PAGA; § 2698 et seq.).” The Allen
Court noted as follows: 
 
As in other areas of the law,
governmental actors enjoy protection from liability under the Labor Code unless
a statute specifically brings a public employer within its ambit. (See Campbell v. Regents of University of California (2005)
35 Cal.4th 311, 330 [25 Cal. Rptr. 3d 320, 106 P.3d 976] [“‘Generally …
provisions of the Labor Code apply only to employees in the private sector
unless they are specifically made applicable to public employees.’”]; Johnson v. Arvin-Edison Water Storage Dist. (2009)
174 Cal.App.4th 729, 736 [95 Cal. Rptr. 3d 53] (Johnson) [“traditionally,
‘absent express words to the contrary, governmental agencies are not
included within the general words of a statute’”].) Here, the parties agree
that the Labor Code provisions at issue do not apply to public
employers. They dispute, however, whether SDCCC is a public employer.
 
((Allen v. San Diego Convention Center Corp., Inc., supra, at pp. 597-598.)  
Defendant asserts that
here, “there is no dispute that Defendant SMCCD is a public entity in California.”
(Demurrer at p. 4:20-21.) Defendant cites to Government
Code section 811.2 (Demurrer at p. 5:9), which provides that “public
entity” includes “the state, the Regents of the University of California, the
Trustees of the California State University and the California State
University, a county, city, district, public authority, public agency,
and any other political subdivision or public corporation in the State.”
(Emphasis added.) In her response to the demurrer, Plaintiff does not dispute
that Defendant is a “public entity,” nor does Plaintiff address the Allen
case. In Allen, the Court of Appeal further noted as follows: 
 
“In Johnson, supra, 174 Cal.App.4th 729, the Fifth District Court of
Appeal considered whether the provisions requiring meal and rest breaks (§§ 510, 512), allegations central to Allen’s complaint
against SDCCC, were applicable to a water storage district. Johnson rejected
the employee’s assertion that the trial court improperly sustained the water district’s
demurrer to its class action claims “because those sections do not exempt
public entities.” (Johnson, at p. 736.) The
court upheld the established principal that “unless Labor Code provisions are
specifically made applicable to public employers, they only apply to employers
in the private sector,” and it concluded that “[s]ince sections
510 and 512 do not expressly apply to public entities,” they were not
applicable to the water district. (Id. at
p. 733.) As the trial court here concluded, the other provisions of
the Labor Code that Allen alleges SDCCC violated—sections
223, 226.7, 227.3, 246, 226, and 2802—also do not expressly apply to public
entities, and Allen makes no argument to the contrary.” ((Allen v. San Diego Convention Center Corp., Inc., supra, 86 Cal.App.5th at p. 598).
As set forth above,
Plaintiff’s first cause of action here is for failure to provide compliant meal
periods. This cause of action cites to Labor Code
sections 512 and 226.7. (FAC, ¶¶ 28, 32.) Plaintiff’s second cause of
action is for failure to provide compliant rest periods and cites to Labor Code section 226.7. (FAC, ¶¶ 36, 39.)
Plaintiff’s third cause of action is for wage statement penalties and cites to Labor Code section 226. (FAC, ¶¶ 43-44.) These Labor
Code provisions are addressed above in Allen, and Plaintiff does not
make any argument that such provisions apply to public entities. 
Based on the foregoing,
the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the first, second, and third causes
of action of the FAC. 
D.    Fourth Cause of Action for Violation of
Unfair Competition Law
Defendant also asserts
that the fourth cause of action of the FAC fails to state a cause of action. Defendant
cites to California Medical Assn. v. Regents of
University of California (2000) 79
Cal.App.4th 542, 551, where the Court of Appeal found that “Section 17200 (part of the Unfair Practices Act)
defines ‘unfair competition’ to include ‘any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent
business act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue or misleading
advertising.’…Although ‘persons’ who engage in unfair competition may be sued
for damages and injunctive relief…the University of California is a ‘public
entity’ (Gov. Code, § 811.2) and, therefore, not a ‘person’
within the meaning of the Unfair Practices Act…It follows that, as a matter of
law, SMAMG cannot prevail on its claims of unfair competition or unfair
practices.” 
As discussed, Defendant
asserts that it is a “public entity,” citing to Government
Code section 811.2. Plaintiff does not dispute that Defendant is a public
entity, nor does she address Government Code section
811.2. Based on the foregoing, the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to
the fourth cause of action of the FAC. 
 
E.     Fifth Cause of Action for “Private
Attorneys General Act”
Defendant also asserts
that the fifth cause of action fails to state a cause of action. Defendant
cites to Labor Code section 2699, subdivision (b), which
provides that “[f]or purposes of this part, ‘person’ has the same meaning as
defined in Section 18.” Labor
Code section 18 provides that “‘Person’ means any person, association,
organization, partnership, business trust, limited liability company, or
corporation.” Defendant cites to Wells v. One2One
Learning Foundation (2006) 39
Cal.4th 1164, 1192, where the California Supreme Court noted that
“[a] traditional rule of statutory construction is that, absent express words
to the contrary, governmental agencies are not included within the general
words of a statute.” Defendant asserts that Labor Code
section 18 does not contain words or phrases used to signify a public
entity or governmental agency, and that accordingly, Defendant “is not a ‘person’
within the meaning of PAGA.” (Demurrer at p. 6:10.) Plaintiff does not address
or dispute this point in her response. 
Based on the foregoing,
the Court sustains Defendant’s demurer to the fifth cause of action of the FAC.

F.     Sixth Cause of Action for Disability
Discrimination 
Defendant asserts that
Plaintiff’s sixth cause of action fails. Defendant notes that to 
establish a
prima facie case of discrimination, “the plaintiff must provide evidence that
(1) he was a member of a protected class, (2) he was qualified for the position
he sought or was performing competently in the position he held, (3) he
suffered an adverse employment action, such as termination, demotion, or denial
of an available job, and (4) some other circumstance suggests discriminatory
motive.” ((Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 355.) 
In the sixth cause of
action for disability discrimination, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia,
that “Plaintiff was a disabled individual who had a temporary physical
condition which limited Plaintiff’s abilities to perform work over 36 hours per
week. Moreover, given that Plaintiff’s physician imposed medical restrictions
limiting Plaintiff’s ability to work, and authorized medical leaves of absences
for Plaintiff’s condition [sic]. Plaintiff is informed and believes, and based
thereon alleges, that Plaintiff was perceived as disabled by Defendants.
Plaintiff is informed and believes, and based thereon alleges, that Plaintiff
was terminated because Plaintiff was actually disabled and/or perceived as
disabled.” (FAC, ¶ 62.) 
In the demurrer,
Defendant asserts that paragraph 62 of the FAC is “uncertain
and confusing” because Plaintiff fails to state what her disability is.
(Demurrer at p. 7:20.) But as set forth above, Plaintiff alleges that she “has
brain tumor.” (FAC, ¶ 14.) 
Defendant also contends
that Plaintiff has “not sufficiently plead facts to establish that Defendant
SMCCD took any adverse employment actions against her…” (Demurrer at p.
8:20-21.) But Plaintiff alleges that she “was terminated because Plaintiff was
actually disabled and/or perceived as disabled.” (FAC, ¶ 62.) Defendant
contends that Plaintiff “continues to work at SMCCD in her part-time role as an
instructional assistant.” (Demurrer at p. 8:26-27.) The Court notes that this
is a factual argument that is not appropriate on demurrer. The Court notes that
“[a] demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of
the complaint or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable.” ((Simple Avo Paradise Ranch, LLC v.
Southern California Edison Co. (2024)
102 Cal.App.5th 281, 298-299.)
Defendant also argues, inter
alia, that Plaintiff “has failed to plead sufficient factual allegations to
support the conclusory allegations that the District had any discriminatory
motive.” (Demurrer at p. 8:21-22.) As discussed, paragraph 62 of the FAC alleges that “Plaintiff was terminated
because Plaintiff was actually disabled and/or perceived as disabled.” However,
as noted by Defendant, Plaintiff does not appear to allege specific facts to
demonstrate Defendant’s purported discriminatory motive. 
Based on the foregoing,
the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the sixth cause of action of the
FAC. 
 
G.   
Seventh
Cause of Action for Failure to Engage in the Interactive Process and Eighth
Cause of Action for Failure to Accommodate 
Lastly, Defendant
asserts that the seventh and eighth causes of action fail. Pursuant to Government Code section 12940, subdivision (n), “[i]t
is an unlawful employment practice…[f]or an employer or other entity covered by
this part to fail to engage in a timely, good faith, interactive process with
the employee or applicant to determine effective reasonable accommodations, if
any, in response to a request for reasonable accommodation by an employee or
applicant with a known physical or mental disability or known medical
condition.” Defendant cites to Swanson v. Morongo
Unified School Dist. (2014) 232
Cal.App.4th 954, 971, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a]lthough
the interactive process is an informal process designed to identify a
reasonable accommodation that will enable the employee to perform his or her
job effectively, an employer’s failure to properly engage in the process
is separate from the failure to reasonably accommodate an employee’s disability
and gives rise to an independent cause of action. The employee must initiate
the process unless his or her disability and the resulting limitations are
obvious. Once initiated, the employer has a continuous obligation to engage in
the interactive process in good faith.” (Internal citations omitted.)
In addition, pursuant to
Government Code section 12940, subdivision (m)(1),
“[i]t is an unlawful employment practice…(1)¿For an employer or other entity
covered by this part to fail to make reasonable accommodation for the known
physical or mental disability of an applicant or employee.” Defendant
cites to Raine v. City of Burbank (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1222,
where the Court of Appeal noted that “[i]t is also unlawful…for an employer to
fail to make reasonable accommodation for the known physical or mental
disability of an applicant or employee unless the accommodation would cause
undue hardship to the employer. Generally, [t]he employee bears the burden
of giving the employer notice of the disability. This notice then triggers the
employer’s burden to take positive steps to accommodate the employee’s
limitations…The employee, of course, retains a duty to cooperate with the employer’s
efforts by explaining [his or] her disability and qualifications. Reasonable
accommodation thus envisions an exchange between employer and employee where
each seeks and shares information to achieve the best match between the
employer’s capabilities and available positions.” (Internal quotations and
citations omitted.) 
Defendant asserts that
here, Plaintiff “has failed to set forth any factual allegations as to when she
gave notice of her ‘disability.’” (Demurrer at p. 10:22-23.) As discussed,
Plaintiff alleges that “[s]he went to the neurologist in May and provided a Dr.
Note to the HR Regina Rogers and her supervisor Wendy DeMorst requesting
reasonable accommodations.” (FAC, ¶ 15.) Defendant does not appear to cite to
legal authority demonstrating that Plaintiff must plead the specific date on
which she gave notice of her disability. 
Defendant also notes
that paragraph 68 of the FAC alleges that “Defendants
failed to engage in an adequate, good faith interactive process with Plaintiff,
including without limitation, failing to see what alternatives could be put in
play in order to keep Plaintiff working – despite being put on notice of
Plaintiff’s specific need for a reasonable accommodation.” Defendant argues
that this allegation shows that Plaintiff “concedes that SMCCD engaged in the
interactive process but appears to be challenging that the accommodation as she
apparently did not like the alternatives.” (Demurrer at pp. 10:27-11:1.) The
Court does not see how the allegations of paragraph 68 show that Plaintiff
somehow concedes Defendant engaged in the interactive process. Plaintiff
alleges that “Defendants failed to engage in an adequate, good faith
interactive process with Plaintiff…” (FAC, ¶ 68.) 
Defendant also argues
that “in terms of the failure to accommodate claim, Plaintiff provides no
factual allegations in the eighth cause of action and instead just makes a
conclusory statement that she was not accommodated.” (Demurrer at p. 11:3-5.) But
as discussed, Plaintiff alleges in the “factual allegations” section of the FAC
that “[r]easonable accommodations included a private quite [sic] room where she
could regulate the temperature or the ability to work from home full time.”
(FAC, ¶ 16.) Plaintiff alleges that “[t]he campus had a number of these rooms
that could have been provided,” and that “[n]o interactive process was done and
no reasonable accommodations were provided.” (FAC, ¶¶ 17-18.) The Court does
not find that Defendant has shown that Plaintiff’s seventh or eighth causes of
action fail. 
Based on the foregoing,
the Court overrules Defendant’s demurrer to the seventh and eighth causes of
action of the FAC. 
 
 
Motion to Strike 
A court may strike any “¿irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading¿” or all or any
part of a pleading “¿not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state,
a court rule, or an order of the court.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 436¿.) “¿The grounds for
a motion to strike shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from
any matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437¿.) Defendant moves
to strike a number of allegations from the FAC. (Notice of Mot. at p. 2.) 
As set forth above, the Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer
to the sixth cause of action. Thus, the Court denies as moot Defendant’s motion
to strike paragraph 65 of the FAC, as well as the
request for punitive damages in the prayer for relief as to the sixth cause of
action. The Court also notes that Defendant appears to move to strike, inter
alia, paragraphs “90, 102, and 110” of the FAC. (Notice of Motion,
p. 2, ¶ 1.) The Court notes that the FAC does not contain any paragraphs 90,
102, or 110. Thus, the Court denies Defendant’s purported motion to strike such
paragraphs. 
Defendant
also moves to strike the request for “damages” in the prayer for relief as to
the first, second, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action of the FAC. (Notice
of Motion, p. 2, ¶¶ 2-6.)[2]
Defendant’s motion does not appear to contain any argument as to why such
allegations should be stricken. Thus, the Court denies Defendant’s motion to
strike such allegations. 
Defendant
also moves to strike paragraph 71 of the FAC, and Plaintiff’s
request in the prayer for relief for punitive damages in connection with the seventh
and eighth causes of action.  (See
Compl., p. 12:20; 12:27.) Defendant asserts that “Plaintiff is barred from
seeking punitive damages against Defendant pursuant to California
Government Code § 818.” (Mot. at p. 2:14-16.) Government
Code section 818 provides that “[n]otwithstanding any other provision of
law, a public entity is not liable for damages awarded under Section 3294 of the Civil Code or other damages
imposed primarily for the sake of example and by way of punishing the
defendant.” Defendant states that it is a public entity. As discussed above, Government
Code section 811.2
provides that “public entity” includes “the state, the Regents of the
University of California, the Trustees of the California State University and
the California State University, a county, city, district, public
authority, public agency, and any other political subdivision or public
corporation in the State.” (Emphasis added.) In her response, Plaintiff does
not address or dispute Defendant’s assertion that Plaintiff is precluded from
making a claim for punitive damages against Defendant. 
Based on the foregoing,
the Court grants Defendant’s motion to strike paragraph 71
of the FAC, as well as Plaintiff’s request in the prayer for relief for
punitive damages in connection with the seventh and eighth causes of action,
with leave to amend.   
Conclusion
Based on the foregoing, the
Court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the first, second, third, fourth, fifth,
and sixth causes of action of the FAC, with leave to amend. The Court overrules
Defendant’s demurrer to the seventh and eighth causes of action of the FAC. 
The Court grants
Defendant’s motion to strike in part, with leave to amend, and denies the
motion in part, as set forth above. 
The Court orders Plaintiff
to file and serve an amended complaint, if any, within 20 days of the date of
this Order. If no amended complaint is filed within 20 days of this Order, Defendant
is ordered to file and serve its answer within 30 days of the date of this
Order.¿
Defendant is ordered to
give notice of this Order.¿¿ 
 
DATED:  November 13, 2024                       ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


