  Case Number:  23STCV23143    Hearing Date:   January 29, 2024    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT
17
 
TENATIVE RULING
 



M&Y PERSONAL INJURY LAWYERS
  
        
  vs.
 
STONE DEAN LLP, et al. 
 


 Case
  No.:  23STCV23143
 
 
 Hearing Date:  January 29, 2024



 
 
Defendant’s
demurrer is GRANTED, WITHOUT LEAVE TO AMEND. Dismissal is to be without
prejudice. 
 
As such, the
request to strike the Complaint is duplicative and moot.   
 
            On
9/25/2023, Plaintiff M&Y Personal Injury Lawyers (Plaintiff) filed suit
against stone Dean, LLP, Gregory E. Stone, Lesllie A Blozan, Kristi W. Dean
(collectively, Defendants), alleging: (1) intentional interference with
contract; (2) breach of fiduciary duty; (3) fraud; and (4) conversion. 
 
            Now,
Defendants demur to Plaintiff’s Complaint. 
 
Factual Background
 
On 2/26/2018,
Steven Mazur was injured in a car vs. bicycle accident. He retained Plaintiff,
who filed suit on his behalf on March 19, 2018, and tentatively settled the
case for the defendant’s policy limits on or about March 20, 2018. His retainer
agreement with M&Y specified recovery of a certain percentage of the
settlement, whether or not M&Y still represented Mazur.
 
Mazur did not
wish to settle the case so quickly or for the policy limit amount, so sought
new counsel. In April, 2018, he substituted Defendant Stone Dean for M&Y,
to pursue the action further. The Mazur action was eventually settled for
policy limits, the amount M&Y originally obtained. However, Mazur’s wife,
Eva Altobelli, also asserted a loss of consortium claim not pled by M&Y,
allowing an additional recovery beyond the previous offer.
 
At the
conclusion of the case, Stone Dean disbursed the settlement funds, retaining
the amount specified in the M&Y retainer in trust to resolve the fee
dispute with M&Y. The dispute has not been resolved, as M&Y will not
negotiate to accept anything less than their contracted amount.
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendant
argues that Plaintiff’s action is premature because it is premised on the
existence and enforceability of a lien that has not been confirmed by a court
determination. More specifically, Defendant contends that Plaintiff has not
obtained a determination that he is entitled a recovery of fees from his
client. Such a dispute would be subject to mandatory arbitration pursuant to
Business and Professions Code section 6200. Only then, once the enforceability
of the lien and amount owed has been determined, can Plaintiff maintain a claim
against Defendants here for alleged actions regarding non-payment of the
claimed lien.   
 
            In
support, Defendant cites Mojtahedi v. Vargas (2014) 228 Cal.App.4th 974.
There, a plaintiff’s attorney attempted to enforce an attorney fee lien against
the former client’s second attorney. The first attorney demanded payment of
fees under the original retainer agreement, and refused to negotiate the amount
of the fees with the attorney who settled the case. Plaintiff Mojtahedi sued
Vargas, the second attorney, as well as the claims adjuster who issued the
settlement check and the two banks that issued and deposited the settlement
check. Causes of action included fraud and tortious interference with
prospective advantage. Plaintiff never sued the former client to confirm
enforceability of the lien or establish the amount the client owed under the
lien.
 
The trial
court sustained defendant Vargas’ demurrer to the second amended complaint and
Mojtahedi appealed. The Court of Appeal framed the issue under review:
“…[W]hether plaintiff can enforce an attorney lien solely via an action against
defendant, who holds the settlement funds in his client trust account.” The
court concluded; “Without an enforceable lien, plaintiff cannot prove that he
has a right to a portion of the settlement money.” (Mojtahedi, supra,
at 977).
 
In explaining
the ruling, the court noted “[u]nlike other liens, ‘an attorney’s lien is not
created by the mere fact that an attorney has performed services in a case.’ (Carroll
v. Interstate Brands Corp. (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 1168, 1172.) The court
explained that an attorney claiming a lien “…must bring a separate, independent
action against the client to establish the existence of the lien, to determine
the amount of the lien, and to enforce it.” (Id, citing Brown v. Superior
Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 320, 328, quoting Carroll, supra,
99 Cal.App.4th at p. 1173…” (Id.)
 
Mojtahedi’s
complaint alleged a contract that created a lien, but “failed to allege facts
establishing that he adjudicated the existence, value or enforceability of his
lien.” (Id.) The court also observed that Mojtahedi provided services to his
client, not defendant attorney, with any enforceable lien proceeds being paid
from the client’s settlement. It is therefore a requirement that [p]laintiff
must litigate with the clients to determine the reasonable cost of the services
he provided to them. Plaintiff has omitted this essential step of establishing
his entitlement to a particular portion of the settlement proceeds.” (Id, at
pg. 788.) Mojtahedi was required to bring a separate, declaratory relief action
to determine the reasonable value of his services. Mojtahedi did not file that
action, and therefore “failed to establish the existence, amount and
enforceability of his lien on the settlement money.” (Id, at pg. 979.) Judgment
for defendant Vargas was affirmed.
 
After review,
the Court finds the facts here to be analogous to those in Motjahedi.
Here, Plaintiff’s action is based on an unconfirmed lien and unknown lien
amount.  While Plaintiff disputes this in
opposition, the very premise of Plaintiff’s claims, i.e., that Defendant here
has engaged in tortious and fraudulent conduct, turns on the fact that
Defendant is in control of funds Plaintiff claims it is owed in an ongoing
contract fee dispute. In opposition, Plaintiff noted that the contractual fee
dispute between Plaintiff and Steven Mazur has an arbitration hearing set for
January 23, 2024. Plaintiff should update the Court at oral argument whether
the arbitrator there ruled there is an enforceable attorney lien. 
 
A contingent
fee agreement “does not operate to transfer part of the cause of action to the
attorney but only gives him a lien on his client’s recovery…Compensation must
be sought in an independent action by the attorney against the client…” (Hendricks
v. Superior Court (1961) 197 Cal.App.2d 586, 589.) An attorney seeking
recovery of fees owed under a lien must first file a quantum meruit action
against the client. (Ibid.) As such, the Court agrees that case law requires
that Plaintiff participate in mandatory fee arbitration to determine the
quantum meruit value of fees; and if necessary, seek a judicial determination
regarding the enforceability of the claimed lien amount and the reasonable
value of the services rendered by plaintiff to Mazur.   
 
Based on the
foregoing, Defendant’s demurrer is granted, without leave to amend. Dismissal
is to be without prejudice. As such, the request to strike the Complaint is
duplicative and moot.   
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  January   
, 2024
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 