 Case Number:  24STCV19839    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  74 Shin et al.
v. Lee et al. 
Defendants Coldwell Banker
Residential Brokerage Company and Litta E. Lee’s Motion to Strike
 
BACKGROUND  
            This
motion arises out of a breach of contract and negligence claim.
            Plaintiff
Sammy K. Shin and Chung Ok Shin (Plaintiffs) allege that defendants Litta E.
Lee, Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Company, Terry B. Kwon, and Pam E.
Lee breached their real estate contract by failing to disclose a previous
break-in at the property. 
            Defendants
Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Company and Litta E. Lee (Defendants)
move to strike references to attorney’s fees and emotional damages. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
A
court may strike any “¿irrelevant, false or improper matter¿inserted in any
pleading¿” or any part of a pleading “¿not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.¿” (¿Code Civ.
Proc., § 436¿.) “¿The grounds for a motion to strike shall appear on the face
of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which the court is required to
take judicial notice.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 437¿.)¿ 
 
DISCUSSION
            Defendants
move to strike references to attorney’s fees and emotional damages.  
Plaintiffs
allege only property damages; therefore, Plaintiffs are not entitled to
emotional damages.  (Erlich v. Menezes
(1999) 21 Cal.4th 543, 557.)  Plaintiffs
do not oppose the motion to strike emotional damages.  The Court grants the motion to strike
references to emotional damages.
Defendants
also move to strike references to attorney’s fees.  Plaintiffs request attorney’s fees under the
doctrine of Tort of Another.  The Tort of
Another doctrine does not apply where a plaintiff has been damaged by the joint
negligence of multiple codefendants.  (Gorman
v. Tassajara Dev. Corp. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 44, 80 (citing Vacco
Industries, Inc. v. Van Den Berg, 5 Cal.App.4th 34, 57).)  The doctrine “does not reach so far as to
allow plaintiffs to pick and choose which one of several joint tortfeasors
should absorb the cost of the plaintiffs litigating with the other
tortfeasors.”  (Gorman, supra,
178 Cal.App.4th at pp. 81.) The Court grants the Motion to Strike as to the
Doctrine of Tort against Another.  The
Court does not strike, however, references to attorney’s fees that may be
recoverable from parties due to the Purchasing Agreement.
 
CONCLUSION
            The
Court grants Defendants’ Motion to Strike in part and denies in part.  The Court grants the motion to:
·        
Page
6, line 10-23: “Plaintiffs have incurred… (1963).”
Defendants to give notice.