  Case Number:  19STCV30239    Hearing Date:   January 6, 2025    Dept:  74 The
Wonderful Company v. Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health Insurance Co. et al. 
Plaintiff The Wonderful Company’s
Motion to Seal the Trial Binder
BACKGROUND  
This action arises out of a contract dispute.
On August 22, 2019, plaintiff The
Wonderful Company LLC (TWC) filed a complaint on behalf of itself and others
similarly situated, against defendants Anthem Blue Cross Life and Health
Insurance Company (Anthem) and Lucile Packard Children’s Hospital Standard
(LPCH) and Does 1-100 (collectively Defendants). The complaint alleged six
causes of action: (1) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing, (2) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (3) Violation of the Cartwright Act
(Bus. & Prof Code, § 16720, et seq.), (4) Unreasonable Restraint of Trade
(Bus. & Prof Code, § 16720, et seq.), (5) Combination to Monopolize in
Violation of the Cartwright Act (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 16720, et seq.), and
(6) Violation of Cal. Bus. & Prof. Code Section 17200, et. seq.¿¿

            The
Parties jointly move to seal the Joint Trial Binder. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD 
Unless confidentiality is required by law, court records are
presumed to be open to the public. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.550, subd.
(c).) Consequently, pleadings, motions, evidence, and other papers may not be
filed under seal merely by stipulation of the parties; rather, a prior court
order is necessary. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 2.551, subd. (a).)  
The governing rule here is Cal.
Rules of Court, Rule 2.550(d) which states “that the court may order that a
record be filed under seal only if it expressly finds facts that
establish:  

There
     exists an overriding interest that overcomes the right of public access to
     the record; 


The
     overriding interest supports sealing the record; 


A
     substantial probability exists that the overriding interest will be
     prejudiced if the record is not sealed; 


The
     proposed sealing is narrowly tailored; and 


No less
     restrictive means exist to achieve the overriding interest.” 

If the court fails to make the required findings, the order
is deficient and cannot support sealing. (Overstock.com, Inc. v. Goldman
Sachs Group, Inc. (2014) 231 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.) Sanctions may be
imposed for overboard requests to seal. (Id. at p. 500.)  

 
DISCUSSION
            Parties
move to seal the entire trial binder. The court maintains physical control of the
trial binder for the court’s use and does not make the binder available to the
public. Accordingly, there is no need to seal the binder.  The Parties may move to seal individual
documents within the trial binder in independently noticed motions. 
 
CONCLUSION
            The
Court denies Parties’ Motion to Seal. 
            Plaintiff
to give notice.