

Hearing
Date:             January 31, 2024
Case
Name:                Bailey v. Universal Protection Service, LP 
Case
No.:                    23STCV06389
Matter:                        Motion to Compel
Arbitration 
Moving
Party:             Defendant Universal Protection Service, LP

Responding
Party:      Plaintiff Tehra Bailey

Tentative
Ruling:      The Motion to Compel
Arbitration is granted; the matter is stayed pending resolution of arbitration.


 
In this
employment action, Plaintiff Tehra Bailey (Plaintiff) filed a Complaint on March
22, 2023, alleging FEHA
claims for discrimination, failure to prevent discrimination, retaliation,
harassment, as well as wrongful termination in violation of public policy, and negligent
supervision and hiring, and retaliation pursuant to Labor Code section  against her former employer, Defendant
Universal Protection Service, LP
doing business as Allied Universal Security Services (Defendant).
 
            On
December 1, 2023, Defendant filed a motion to compel arbitration pursuant to the
parties’ arbitration agreement. In opposition, Plaintiff argues the arbitration
agreement is unenforceable based on unconscionability. A reply was filed. 
 
            The motion to compel arbitration
is granted. The matter is stayed pending the outcome of arbitration. 
 
Legal
Standard 
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure
section 1281.2, a court may order arbitration of a controversy if it finds that
the parties have agreed to arbitrate that dispute. Because the obligation to
arbitrate arises from contract, the court may compel arbitration only if the
dispute in question is one in which the parties have agreed to arbitrate. (Weeks
v. Crow (1980) 113 Cal.App.3d 350, 352.) Since arbitration is a favored
method of dispute resolution, arbitration agreements should be liberally
interpreted, and arbitration should be ordered unless the agreement clearly
does not apply to the dispute in question. (Id. at p. 353; Segal v.
Silberstein (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th 627, 633.)
 
Analysis
 
            Defendant
moves to compel arbitration of Plaintiff’s claims and stay the matter while the
arbitration is pending.
 
Existence of Arbitration Agreement:
 
            Defendant
seeks to compel arbitration based on an arbitration agreement between the
parties. In support of the existence of an arbitration agreement, Defendant
submits evidence that Plaintiff was employed by Defendant
as a security guard from March 26, 2020 to August 5, 2021. (Bhangoo Decl., ¶
16.) Defendant further submits evidence that, on March 26, 2020, Plaintiff electronically
executed an agreement – the Arbitration Policy and Agreement (Agreement) – with
Defendant as part of her onboarding process. (Bhangoo Decl., ¶ 15, Ex. A [Agreement].)
 
            The Agreement states that “the
Parties mutually agree to the resolution by binding arbitration of all claims
or causes of action that the Employee may have against the Company, or the
Company against Employee, which could be brought in a court of law . . ..”
(Bhangoo Decl., ¶ 15, Ex. A, ¶ 4.) The Agreement further provides:
 
“[C]laims
covered by this Arbitration Policy and Agreement specifically include, but are
not limited to, . . . claims for breach of contract (written or oral, express
or implied); . . . tort claim; claims for discrimination and/or harassment;
claims for wrongful termination; . . . claims for retaliation; . . . claims for
wages or other compensation, penalties or reimbursement of expenses; breaks and
rest period claims; . . . claims for violation of any law, statute, regulation,
ordinance or common law, including, but not limited to, all claims arising
under . . . the Americans with Disabilities Act; the Family and Medical Leave
Act; … and any other applicable federal, state, or local laws relating to
discrimination in employment, leave, and/or wage and hour laws . . ..” (Bhangoo
Decl., ¶ 15, Ex. A, ¶ 4.) 
 
Lastly,
the Agreement provides, “Covered claims include any claim arising from
incidents, facts, or circumstances occurring prior to the Effective Date of
this Agreement; [and] any claims that arise thereafter . . ..” (Bhangoo Decl.,
¶ 15, Ex. A, ¶ 4.)
 
            In opposition, Plaintiff disputes
signing any orientation forms electronically and specifically states she did not
sign the Agreement. (Bailey Decl., ¶ 4.) She further states that, at the time
of her orientation, there were no computers in the room and instead she was presented
with a large stack of forms to sign for her employment. (Bailey Decl., ¶ 3.) 
 
            The
Court finds Defendant has met its burden of authenticating the electronic
signature. Here, Defendant submits adequate evidence of the
process by which Plaintiff applied for employment with Defendant and by which
she received and signed the Agreement. 
 
Defendant’s
evidence shows that Defendant employed iCIMS to manage its electronic
onboarding system. (Bhangoo Decl., ¶ 9.) iCIMS is a
password protected online platform that allows Defendant’s applicants to
securely complete and execute onboarding forms and documents prior to
commencing their employment with Defendant. (Bhangoo Decl., ¶ 9.) As part of
Defendant’s onboarding process, Defendant emails a link from iCIMS to the
potential new employee’s designated email address provided to Defendant’s Human
Resources Coordinator by the potential new employee. (Bhangoo Decl., ¶ 10,
subd. (a).) In order to complete onboarding, a potential new employee, like Plaintiff,
must use their correct username and unique password to electronically access
and sign onboarding documents with their electronic signature. (Bhangoo Decl.,
¶ 10, subd. (b).) 
 
Lastly,
Defendant’s evidence shows that “[a]lthough a limited number of [Defendant’s]
employees . . . have the ability to view iCIMS’ documents, no employee is able
to alter or edit any iCIMS documents [without the system recording the name of
the person initiating the system change].” (Bhangoo Decl., ¶ 10, subd. (i).) Defendant
reviewed Plaintiff’s iCIMS electronic forms – specifically, Arbitration
Agreement – and found no revisions or changes to Plaintiff’s Agreement at any
point by anyone after Plaintiff executed the Arbitration Agreement on March 26,
2021. (Bhangoo Decl., ¶ 17.)
 
Thus, the evidence shows that this was not a case in
which Plaintiff presented evidence that another person caused her electronic
signature to appear on the Agreement. 
 
For instance, in Bannister v. Marinidence Opco, LLC
(2021) 64 Cal.App.5th 541, 544–545 —a case that also involved an online
onboarding process—plaintiff Bannister submitted evidence that a human
resources manager Matson visited the facility where Bannister worked and
completed the onboarding process and arbitration agreement for her by asking
for the necessary information without showing Bannister what was on the
computer. (Id. at pp. 546–547.) Bannister also presented evidence that
Matson completed the onboarding process for other employees remotely and
without their participation. (Id. at p. 547.) 
 
In affirming the denial of the motion to compel
arbitration, the court of appeal concluded that this was “a classic example of
a trial court drawing a conclusion from conflicting evidence.” (Id. at
p. 545.) That is, the trial court disbelieved Matson's account of the
onboarding process and instead credited Bannister's evidence that Matson
completed the onboarding process for her. (Id. at p. 548.) 
 
There is no persuasive evidentiary conflict in the
record here. The Court has only Plaintiff’s bare denial that she signed the
Agreement. However, unlike Bannister, Plaintiff's declaration
contains no suggestion that any other human resources personnel completed her
onboarding documents (or the onboarding documents for other employees without
their knowing participation). Rather, Plaintiff only speculates that it is
theoretically possible someone could have signed for her. 
 
            Instead, the more persuasive
evidence shows the document was emailed to Plaintiff and she had to enter a
correct username and password to sign the document. By statute, an electronic
signature may be authenticated “in any manner, including a
showing of the efficacy of any security procedure applied to determine the
person to which the electronic record or electronic signature was
attributable.” (Civ. Code, § 1633.9, subd. (a) [italics added].) This showing
of the efficacy of document security protocols is one way of demonstrating
authentication.
 
Further, as discussed above, the evidence here shows
that only a limited number of people have access to the
potential applicant’s iCIMS’s forms – which is sufficient to show “the efficacy of any security procedure applied to
determine the person to which the electronic record or electronic signature was
attributable.” 
 
Thus, the Court finds that Defendant’s evidence is
sufficient to authenticate the electronic signature as
“the act of” Plaintiff. Accordingly, Defendant
has carried its burden of demonstrating the existence of a valid arbitration
agreement between the parties. 
 
Enforceability of the Arbitration Agreement:
 
            In opposition,
Plaintiff argues that the Agreement is both procedurally and substantively
unconscionable. 
 
            If a court
finds as a matter of law that a contract or any clause of a contract is
unconscionable, the court may refuse to enforce the contract or clause, or it
may limit the application of any unconscionable clause so as to avoid any
unconscionable result. (Civ. Code, § 1670.5, subd. (a).) “An agreement to
arbitrate, like any other contract, is subject to revocation if the agreement
is unconscionable.” (Carmona v. Lincoln Millennium Car Wash, Inc. (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 74, 83 [citing Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare
Services, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 83, 98].)
 
            “The
general principles of unconscionability are well established. A contract is
unconscionable if one of the parties lacked a meaningful choice in deciding
whether to agree and the contract contains terms that are unreasonably
favorable to the other party. [Citation.] Under this standard, the
unconscionability doctrine ‘ “has both a procedural and a substantive element.”
’ [Citation.] ‘The procedural element addresses the circumstances of contract
negotiation and formation, focusing on oppression or surprise due to unequal
bargaining power. [Citations.] Substantive unconscionability pertains to the
fairness of an agreement's actual terms and to assessments of whether they are
overly harsh or one-sided.’ [Citation.] [¶] Both procedural and substantive
unconscionability must be shown for the defense to be established, but ‘they
need not be present in the same degree.’ [Citation.] Instead, they are
evaluated on ‘ “sliding scale.” ’ [Citation.] ‘[T]he more substantively
oppressive the contract term, the less evidence of procedural unconscionability
is required to’ conclude that the term is unenforceable. [Citation.]
Conversely, the more deceptive or coercive the bargaining tactics employed, the
less substantive unfairness is required. [Citations.] A contract's substantive
fairness ‘must be considered in light of any procedural unconscionability’ in
its making. [Citation.] ‘The ultimate issue in every case is whether the terms
of the contract are sufficiently unfair, in view of all relevant circumstances,
that a court should withhold enforcement.’ ” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho (2019)
8 Cal.5th 111, 125–126.) “The burden of proving unconscionability rests upon
the party asserting it.” (OTO, supra, 8 Cal.5th at p. 126.)
 
            Plaintiff first
argues the Agreement is procedurally unconscionable because the Agreement was a
condition of employment and offered on a take-it-or leave it basis. That is, Plaintiff had no ability to
negotiate the terms of the Agreement, and Defendant made no effort to provide
an explanation of its terms to Plaintiff. (Bailey Decl., ¶¶ 3, 5, 7.) 
 
            Plaintiff also
challenges the purportedly small font size and claims the Agreement was “filled
with complex sentences referencing statutes and legal jargon.” (Opp., 10:13-11:2.)
 
            Defendant does not dispute that the
Agreement may contain some degree of procedural unconscionability as a contract
of adhesion provided in this employment context. Nonetheless, Defendant argues
that courts
regularly uphold arbitration agreements even where they are presented to
employees on a “take it or leave it basis.” (See e.g., Little v. Auto
Stiegler, Inc. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1064, 1071; Lagatree v. Luce, Forward,
Hamilton & Scripps (1999) 74 Cal.App.4th 1105, 1123.)
 
            Moreover, Plaintiff’s procedural
unconscionability argument is seriously undermined by the clear language of the
Agreement which contains an opt-out provision; this provision unambiguously
states: “Arbitration is not a mandatory condition of employment with the
Company. You have 30 calendar days after receiving this Agreement to opt out of
arbitration (the “Deadline”).” (Bhangoo Decl., Ex. A, ¶ 3.) Plaintiff never
opted out of the Agreement, despite her ability to do so without repercussions.
(Bhangoo Decl., ¶ 16.) 
Under these circumstances, the degree of procedural unconscionability is
minimal.
 
            Plaintiff
next argues that the Agreement is substantively unconscionable. 
 
Plaintiff contends
that the Agreement contradicts itself by stating that her claims for retaliation under Labor Code section 1102.5 are subject to arbitration
but then states that claims within the jurisdiction of the California Labor
Commissioner are not subject to arbitration under this Agreement.
 
            There is no
inconsistency in the Agreement regarding covered claims. As noted above, the
Agreement pertains to an extensive list of covered claims. (Bhangoo
Decl., ¶ 15, Ex. A, ¶ 4.)
The Agreement also contains an exception for “claims the Employee may have for
workers’ compensation, unemployment compensation benefits, medical or other
employee welfare or pension benefits under the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act (ERISA), claims brought under the National Labor Relations Act,
claims covered by an applicable collective bargaining agreement, or any other
claims found not subject to mandatory arbitration by governing law.” (Bhangoo
Decl., ¶ 15, Ex. A, ¶ 8.) The language in the Agreement applies broadly to
claims identified except those claims that fall within the exception. Plaintiff
fails to provide any explanation as to how the claim for Labor Code section
1102.5 falls within this exception. 
 
Plaintiff also argues that the
Agreement fails to attach the arbitration rules, fails to describe to Plaintiff
how she might initiate arbitration, and fails to provide the rules on discovery
limitations. (Opp., 12:7-9.) 
 
            Plaintiff
provides no legal authority to support finding that any of these issues indicate
the Agreement’s substantive unconscionability. 
 
In fact, the failure to include
arbitration rules alone does not evince either procedural or substantive
unconscionability. First, the Agreement signed by Plaintiff states that
a copy of the Employment Arbitration Rules and Procedures can be found at
www.jamsadr.com.
California courts have consistently found that when the agreement cites to the
applicable arbitration rules but does not attach those rules the agreement is
not necessarily rendered procedurally unconscionable as matter of law. (Lane v.
Francis Capital Management LLC (2014) 224 Cal.App.4th 676, 690
[incorporation of AAA rules by reference without attaching them could be a
small factor in support of a finding of procedural unconscionability; standing
alone, or even in the context of an adhesion contract, without more, it is not
enough to support a finding of procedural unconscionability]; accord, Peng
v. First Republic Bank (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1472.)

 
            Moreover, the failure to attach arbitration rules does
not add to the Agreement’s unconscionability as a contract of adhesion where
Plaintiff’s unconscionability claim is not based on the substance of the
arbitration rules themselves. (Baltazar v. Forever 21, Inc. (2016) 62
Cal.4th 1237, 1246.) As our Supreme
Court explained, absent some claim that a rule was artfully hidden through
incorporation by reference, the failure to attach arbitration rules does not
make the agreement either procedurally or substantively unconscionable. (Id.
at pp. 1246–1247.)
 
            Additionally,
contrary to the Opposition argument, the Agreement does provide rules on
discovery limitations. (Bhangoo Decl., ¶ 15, Ex. A, ¶
11(c).)[1]
 
 
            Finally,
Defendant points out that Plaintiff ignores the section that directs the reader to the
JAMS Rules website, outlines the process for selecting a neutral arbitrator,
specifies Discovery parameters, guarantees a written opinion, and details
arbitration fees. Plaintiff has not identified any substantive
unconscionability on this ground. 
 
Thus, Plaintiff has not demonstrated
any substantive unconscionability. Therefore, even if the Agreement contains
some degree of procedural unconscionability, the absence of substantive unconscionability
is fatal Plaintiff’s unconscionability argument. Defendant has met its burden
of demonstrating the existence of a valid, enforceable Arbitration Agreement. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Accordingly,
the Court grants Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration; the matter will be stayed
pending the outcome of arbitration. At the hearing, the Court will set the date
for a post-arbitration status conference.
 


