 Case Number:  24PSCV00611    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  G Defendant City of El Monte’s Demurrer to Plaintiff
Aurelia Robles’s First Amended Complaint
 
Respondent: Plaintiff Aurelia Robles
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
Defendant City of El Monte’s Demurrer to Plaintiff
Aurelia Robles’s First Amended Complaint is
CONTINUED to a date to be determined at the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
Defendant’s counsel is also ordered to meet and confer
with Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the Demurrer and to file a supplemental
declaration describing such meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court
days before the next scheduled hearing on the Demurrer.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This is a personal injury action. In March 2022, Plaintiff
Aurelia Robles was attempting to board a bus allegedly operated by Defendant
City of El Monte (the City) with a walker when Robles fell. Robles alleges the
bus’s operator had refused to lower the bus’s access ramp which forced Robles
to use the stairs despite Robles’s use of a walker.
 
On February 29, 2024, Robles filed a complaint against the
City and Does 1-100, alleging causes of action for (1) negligent operation of a
motor vehicle for which public entity is responsible, (2) failure to discharge
mandatory duty, and (3) respondeat superior.
 
On June 3, 2024, Robles filed a First Amended Complaint
(FAC) against the same defendants alleging the same causes of action.
 
On July 2, 2024, the City filed the present demurrer. A
hearing on the present demurrer is set for August 6, 2024, along with a case
management conference.
 
ANALYSIS
 
The City demurs to Robles’s third cause of
action for respondeat superior. For the
following reasons, the court finds parties did not adequately meet and confer.
 
Legal Standard
 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,
subdivision (a), prior to filing a demurrer, “the demurring party shall meet
and confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that
is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can
be reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.”
This section further provides that “the demurring party shall identify all of
the specific causes of action that it believes are subject to demurrer and
identify with legal support the basis of the deficiencies.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a)(1).)
 
While Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41, subdivision
(a)(4) makes clear failing to meet and confer is not grounds to overrule a
demurrer, courts “are not required to ignore defects in the meet and confer
process” and if the court determines “no meet and confer has taken place, or
concludes further conferences between counsel would likely be productive, it
retains discretion to order counsel to meaningfully discuss the pleadings with
an eye toward reducing the number of issues or eliminating the need for a
demurrer, and to continue the hearing date to facilitate that effort.” (Dumas
v. Los Angeles County Bd. of Supervisors (2020) 45 Cal.App.5th 348, 355
& fn. 3.)
 
Discussion
 
In
this case, the City’s counsel attempted to meet and confer by sending an email
to Robles’s counsel on June 21, 2024. (Steinberg Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A.) Because
email communications are not code-compliant means of meeting and conferring and
counsel’s declaration does not state if counsel held telephonic discussions,
the court finds parties have failed to adequately meet and confer. Thus, a
continuance of the hearing on their demurrer is appropriate.
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, the City’s demurrer is CONTINUED to a date to be determined at
the hearing in Department G (Pomona).
 
The
City’s
counsel is also ordered to meet and confer with Robles’s counsel
regarding the demurrer and to file a supplemental declaration describing such
meet and confer efforts at least nine (9) court days before the next scheduled
hearing on the demurrer.