 Case Number:  23AHCV01075    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     July
11, 2024                                       TRIAL DATE: February 4, 2025 
                                                           
CASE:                         LUCKY STAR
KITCHEN, INC. A CALIFORNIA CORPORATION vs TIAN YOU FENG, INC. A CALIFORNIA
CORPORATION, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV01075 
 
 
 
MOTION
FOR RECONSIDERATION

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiff Lucky Star Kitchen, Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      None
 
SERVICE:                              Filed April 19, 2024 (electronic service
on April 17, 2024)
 
OPPOSITION:                       None
 
REPLY:                                   None
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
Plaintiff moves for reconsideration of this court’s previous order denying
Plaintiff’s motions to compel further. 
 
BACKGROUND 
 
This case arises out of Plaintiff Lucky Star Kitchen, Inc.’s
(“Plaintiff”) claim that Defendants Li Liu, Tian You Feng, Inc., Yuxi Liu, and
Yan Chen engaged in the fraudulent transfer of assets. Plaintiff filed this
complaint on May 11, 2023, alleging one cause of action for violation of the
Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act.  
 
            On April 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed a
motion for reconsideration of order denying Plaintiff’s motion to compel
further responses from Defendant Yan Chen to Plaintiff’s form interrogatories,
set one. On the same date, Plaintiff also filed a motion for reconsideration of
order denying Plaintiff’s motion to compel further responses from Defendant Li
Liu to Plaintiff’s form interrogatories, set one.
 
            To date, no oppositions have been
filed. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
Plaintiff’s motion for reconsideration is DENIED. 
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“When an application for an order
has been made to a judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or
granted, or granted conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order
may, within 10 days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of
the order and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make
application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the
matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the
application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and
to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different
facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.” (Code of Civil Procedure
section 1008, subd. (a).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Plaintiff moves for reconsideration of this Court’s
previous order regarding its motion to compel further responses from Defendants
Li Liu and Yan Chen, and a modification of that order.
 
On August 4, 2023, Plaintiff served the first set of Form
Interrogatories to Defendant Yan Chen. On October 4, 2023, Chen filed responses
but waived any objections due to a late response. Upon review, Plaintiff found
parts of the responses incomplete and insufficient, prompting a meet and confer
letter on October 23, 2023. Although further responses were provided on
November 14, 2023, Plaintiff still found them to be lacking and sent another
meet and confer letter, which it asserts was never addressed. Despite repeated
requests from Plaintiff’s counsel, Defendants’ counsel did not confirm if he
would supplement the responses. On February 14, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion
to compel further responses and requested monetary sanctions. However, the
Court denied the motion on April 10, 2024, citing untimeliness. 
 
Plaintiff requests that the Court reconsider its motion on
the grounds that the court failed to consider an email from Defendant’s counsel
requesting a 60-day extension starting January 10, 2024, which would have made
the motion timely. Plaintiff states that the extension would have made the
deadline to file on March 10, 2024, making the February 14 and 15 filings,
within the deadline. 
 
Defendants do not oppose this motion.
 
The court finds that Plaintiff has not submitted new facts
warranting the present motion for reconsideration. In
the April 10, 2024 minute order, the Court indeed considered Plaintiff’s
present arguments. 
 
Plaintiff provides
that the parties agreed to extend the deadline to file a motion to compel
further responses 60 days starting from January 10, 2024. (Qi Decl. at p. 2:22-24.)
However, in the attached correspondence, Defendants’ counsel provides “I agree
you have 60 days to bring a Motion to Compel from today’s date for any
outstanding discovery.” (Exhibit 5b at p. 2.) This email was sent on December
5, 2023. (Ibid.) The present motions were filed on February 14, and 15, 2024.
Under the parties’ agreement to extend the deadline, Plaintiff’s motions are
untimely.
 
(April 10, 2024 Minute
Order.) Plaintiff fails to otherwise show that there are new or different facts
warranting reconsideration. 
 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
            Plaintiff’s
motion for reconsideration is DENIED.
 
            Plaintiff
to give notice.
            
Dated:   July 11, 2024                                     ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court


Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the court
indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
