  Case Number:  22STCV04899    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     July
11, 2024                           TRIAL
DATE: September 17, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                         Rosemary Jenkins
v. Avana North Hollywood Apartments et al. 

 
CASE NO.:                 22STCV04899
 
 
 
MOTION
FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT

 
MOVING PARTY:               Defendant National Construction and
Remediation, Inc. (“NCR” or “Defendant”)
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff
Rosemary Jenkins 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed April 24, 2024
 
OPPOSITION:                       Filed June 28, 2024
 
REPLY:                                   Filed July 3, 2024
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED 
 
            Defendant moves for
summary judgment.
 
BACKGROUND
 
This case arises out of Plaintiff Rosemary Jenkins’
(“Plaintiff”) trip and fall claim against Defendants Avana North Hollywood
Apartments, Avana, LLC, Otsego Apartments, and  Otsego Apartments LLC, et
al (“Defendants”). Plaintiff alleges she was a tenant at Defendants’ apartment
building. Plaintiff alleges that the building had been under construction and
that the floor of the common area was not aligned with the floor of the
elevator. Plaintiff alleges that on April 28, 2021, she tripped and fell as a
result of the misalignment. 
 
Plaintiff filed a second amended complaint (“SAC”) on January 26, 2024, alleging eight
causes of action for (1) general negligence/premises liability, (2) breach of
the implied warranty of habitability, (3) negligence per se, (4) negligent
maintenance of premises, (5) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, (6)
private nuisance, (7) violation of Civil Code section 1941.1, and (8) gross
negligence. 
 
On February 6, 2024, Defendant filed its Answer. 
 
            On April 24, 2024,
Defendant filed the instant motion. 
 
            On June 28,
2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. 
 
            On July 3,
2024, Defendant filed its reply. 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
 
OBJECTION TO EVIDENCE 
 
            Defendant’s
objections to the declaration of Rosemary Jenkins paragraphs three, four, five,
and six are overruled.
 
LEGAL STANDARD
 
“The purpose of the law of summary
judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.) “A party may move for summary judgment in an
action or proceeding if it is contended that the action has no merit or that
there is no defense to the action or proceeding.” (Code of Civil Procedure
section 473c subd. (a)(1).) “The motion for summary judgment shall be granted
if all the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any
material fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter
of law.” (Code of Civil Procedures section 473c subd. (c).) 
 
A three-step analysis is employed in ruling on motions for summary
judgment. First, the court identifies the issues framed by the pleadings. Next,
the court determines, when the moving party is the defendant, whether it has
produced evidence showing one or more of the elements of the cause of action
cannot be established or there is a complete defense to that cause of action.
If the defendant does so, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show the
existence of a triable issue of material fact as to that cause of action or
defense. (Kline v. Turner (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1369, 1373.) The court
must “view the evidence in the light most favorable to the opposing party and
accept all inferences reasonably drawn therefrom.”  (Ibid.; see
also Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal. 4th 384, 389 [Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that
party.”].)   
 
“A defendant moving for summary judgment must show that one or more
elements of the plaintiff's cause of action cannot be established or that there
is a complete defense. The defendant can satisfy its burden by presenting
evidence that negates an element of the cause of action or evidence that the
plaintiff does not possess¿and cannot reasonably expect to obtain evidence
needed to establish an essential element. (Veera v. Banana Republic, LLC,
(2016) 6 Cal.App.5th 907, 914.)  
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Background Facts
            
            On April
28, 2021, Rosemary Jenkins sustained injuries when she purportedly fell while
getting into the elevator in the courtyard of her apartment building located at
11201 Otsego Street, North Hollywood, California 91601 (the “Incident”). (Defendant’s
Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Facts “DSSUMF” No. 1; UMF No. 3.) At
the time of the Incident, 11201 Otsego Street, including the courtyard and
where Subject Elevator where Plaintiff’s Incident occurred (“Subject Premises”)
was owned by Defendant BRE Silver MF North Hollywood CA LLC (“BRE”). (DSSUMF
No. 4.) The Subject Premises were managed by Defendant Greystar Real Estate
Partners LLC (“Greystar”). (DSSUMF No. 5.)
 
            The moving
party NATIONAL CONSTRUCTION AND REMEDIATION, INC. (“NCR”), was the one
responsible for demolition in the area of Plaintiff’s fall. They created the
uneven flooring at the courtyard and subject elevator. (UMF No. 9.) NCR was
hired by Regency to do demolition work at the subject apartment Complex. (UMF
No. 10.) There was testimony that signs were up in the area of the Plaintiff’s
fall, both prior to and after the fall. (UMF Nos 1,8.) However, it is disputed
whether there were any pictures of any signs being put up at any time prior to
Plaintiff’s fall. (Defendant’s Response to Plaintiff’s Separate Statement Nos.
2,6,33.) At the time of the accident, construction had been done for the day.
(UMF No. 4.) Representatives from Regency General Contractors, Inc. have
testified that they put up signs in the area of the plaintiff’s fall prior to
the incident, but were told by the property management company, Greystar Real
Estate Partners, to take the signs down as Greystar would put up the signs. (UMF
Nos. 5,7.) 
 
            It is also
disputed whether NCR’s internal policies define “unsafe condition” and whether
for this project, NCR was contractually responsible for warning or remediating
the uneven floor. (Defendant’s Response to Plaintiff’s Separate Statement Nos.
11,12.) It is further disputed as to who was responsible for warning of the
uneven floors. (Defendant’s Response to Plaintiff’s Separate Statement Nos.
24.)
            
            Merits
 
            Defendant moves for summary judgment because Plaintiff cannot establish a
claim based off negligence because no duty was owed to Plaintiff, it was not
negligent in the use of the subject premises, and Plaintiff was contributorily
negligent. (Mot. at p. 5.) Moreover, Defendant cannot be held liable for gross
negligence because Plaintiff has no statutory basis for this claim. (Id.
at p. 9.) In opposition, Plaintiff argues that Defendant cannot prove
that there are no triable issues of fact because NCR failed to follow its own
guidelines which requires it to keep an area safe and to watch out for safety.
(Opp’n at p.9.) In reply, Defendant argues that even if the Court concludes
that the uneven flooring created by NCR’s demolition constituted a dangerous
condition, the completed and accepted doctrine dictates that NCR cannot be held
liable for injuries caused by its work if the condition was patent and accepted
by the property manager or owner. (Reply at p. 8.)
 
            First
Cause of Action Negligence/Premises Liability
 
            “The
elements of a negligence claim and a premises liability claim are the same: a
legal duty of care, breach of that duty, and proximate cause resulting in
injury. Premises liability ‘ “is grounded in the possession of the premises and
the attendant right to control and manage the premises” ‘.” (Kesner v.
Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1159 [210 Cal.Rptr.3d 283, 384 P.3d
282], internal citations omitted.) As in negligence cases, the determination of
whether a duty is owed is an issue of law for the court. (Kentucky Fried
Chicken of Cal., Inc. v. Superior Court (1997) 14 Cal.4th 814, 819.) The
terms “landowner” or “owner” apply equally to any person, who, through
ownership, possession or control of the land owes a duty to keep the premises
safe, regardless of defendant’s actual status. (Kinsman v. Unocal Corp.
(2005) 37 C4th 659, 664, 36 CR3d 495, 497, fn. 1.)
 
            Defendant
satisfied its burden. Defendant provides the undisputed facts that NCR neither
owned nor controlled the Subject Premises where Plaintiff’s Incident occurred.
(UMF 4, 5, 24, 25, 44, 45, 64, and 65.) The Subject Premises were managed by
Greystar. (UMF 5, 25, 45, 65; Requests for Admission No.15.) When asked whether
Greystar had any responsibility to their tenants at all in terms of making sure
that the premises were safe while construction was going on, leasing agent,
Gulbahar Zazai stated “we would let the residents know ahead of time to not be
in certain areas.” (Zazai Depo. at p. 40.) Further, he stated that most
residents would be notified through email, however Plaintiff asked to be told
via phone or by a note on her door. In this case, Plaintiff was notified in
person on the same day of the Incident. (Zazai Depo. at p.42.) Moving
Defendant, NCR was hired as a subcontractor by Regency to perform limited work
at the Subject Premises consisting of demolition and hauling of materials in
certain areas. (Defendant’s UMF 10, 30, 50, 70.) When Plaintiff’s Incident
occurred, NCR had already completed its demolition and removal of the courtyard
tile. (UMF 12, 32, 52, 72.) Regency General Contractor’s Superintendent, Daniel
Bressler stated in his deposition that after Regency’s warning signs were taken
off by Greystar, “[he] was told property would post their own signs.” (Kobylecki
Decl. ¶ 4; Index of Exhibits, Ex. C - Bressler Depo. at p. 44.) “A possessor of
land who knows of the hazard would have a duty to erect a barrier or warn
persons entering the land of the danger, whether or not the possessor of the
land has the authority to eliminate the hazard.” (Alcaraz v. Vece (1997)
14 Cal.4th 1149, 1156.) Therefore, Defendant has met its burden. 
 
            The burden
now shifts to Plaintiff to prove there are triable issues of material facts. Plaintiff
provides a copy of the subcontract between Regency General Contractors, Inc and
NRC highlighting provisions showing NRC’s alleged duty. For instance, Article
7: Clean-Up states “[a]t all times during the course of construction,
Subcontractor [NCR] shall perform its Work so as to maintain the site in a
clean, safe, and orderly condition. Upon completion of the Work, Subcontractor
shall remove from the site all hazardous materials, temporary structures,
debris and waste incident to its operation and clean all surfaces, fixtures,
and equipment relative to the performance of this Subcontract.” (UMF No. 25.)
Plaintiff also provides Plaintiff Rosemary Jenkins’ Declaration stating that
she was never informed about the construction and that there were no warnings,
cones, ramps, or anything else around the elevator area at the time of her
fall. (Jenkins Decl. ¶¶ 4-6.) Plaintiff also includes a copy of the relevant
portions of NCR’s policies regarding safety and unsafe conditions. For
instance, Plaintiff relies on NCR’s Construction Injury & Illness
Prevention Program which states that it “has established a safety policy and
inaugurated an Injury and Illness Prevention Program for the purpose of
protecting human lives, property, and the environment.” (Compendium of Evidence
Exh L at pdf p. 56.) Nevertheless, the Court notes that this Prevention Program
document suggests it is catered to its employees and not third parties. 
 
            The Court
also notes that Article 7: Clean Up provision fails to show that NCR was
responsible for putting up warning signs regarding any uneven flooring. It’s
only responsibility “[u]pon completion of the Work” was to “remove from the
site all hazardous materials, temporary structures, debris and waste incident
to its operation and clean all surfaces, fixtures, and equipment relative to
the performance of this Subcontract.” (UMF No. 25.) Moreover, the Court notes
that Defendant was only contracted to perform demolition work, including tile
removal and mortar from the walkways, it was not contracted to fix the floors
or post any warning signs. Notably, provision 22.7 in the subcontract states “Third
Parties Beneficiaries. The parties do not intend the benefits of this
Subcontract to inure to any third party.” (Compendium of Exhibits, Exh D at pdf
16.) Thus, NCR as a subcontractor intended to benefit Regency (contractor) and
no other third parties. Further, two Regency employees, Ray Song and Daniel
Bressler, testified at their depositions that before and after NCR removed the
courtyard tile, Regency put up signs in the Subject Premises to warn of the
uneven flooring post-demolition – further corroborating Ackermann’s testimony
about what the parties’ obligations were per the contract and NCR’s lack of
duty to provide safety warnings per its contract with Regency. (Defendant’s UMF
15-17, 35-37, 55-57, 75-77.)
 
            In Brown
v. Taekwondo, the California Supreme Court stated, “[f]irst, the court must
determine whether there exists a special relationship between the parties
or some other set of circumstances giving rise to an affirmative duty to
protect. Second, if so, the court must consult the factors described in Rowland to
determine whether relevant policy considerations counsel limiting that duty.” (Brown
v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 209.) In Rowland v.
Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108, the Court identified six factors to weigh
whether a duty is owed including: 1) The foreseeability of the harm to the
plaintiff; 2) the degree of certainty that the plaintiff suffered injury; 3)
the closeness of the connection between the defendant’s conduct and the injury
suffered; 4) the moral blame attached to the defendants conduct; 5) the policy
of preventing future harm; 6) the burden on the defendant and the consequences
to the community of imposing a duty to exercise care with resulting liability
for breach, and 7) the availability, cost, and prevalence of insurance for the
risk involved. (Id. at 112-13.)) However, since a special relationship
cannot be established, these factors do not need to be analyzed. 
            
            Defendant’s
reliance on Seo v. All-Makes Overhead Doors to show it did not have a
duty is instructive. In Seo, plaintiff and appellant who subleased part
of a commercial unit, suffered injuries when his arm was crushed by the
property’s gate. (Seo v. All-Makes Overhead Doors (2002) 97
Cal.App.4th 1193, 1198.) The Court of Appeal noted that “Defendant had neither
manufactured nor installed the gate that injured plaintiff. Defendant had not
installed the toggle switch. Defendant did not have a regular contract to
service the gate for the owner of the property. Defendant had not agreed
to warn the owner of the property of any design defects of the gate or install
safety features that might have prevented plaintiff's accident. Defendant
had repaired the sliding gate on occasion as needed . . . Defendant
did not negligently repair the gate or fail to make requested repairs.” (Seo
v. All-Makes Overhead Doors (2002) 97 Cal.App.4th 1193, 1198-1199,
1203-1204.) Similarly, here NCR did not have a regular contract to fix the
floors, rather the scope of work was limited to demolition of the floors. For
instance, the scope of work states, “DEMO, REMOVAL & HAUL AWAY OF FRONT
ENTRANCE@ GROUND LEVEL. POOL & ATRIUM AREA. GYM AREA MAIL ROOM. AND
LANDSCAPING (Deck Coating Removal scope excluded) as set forth in
Subcontractor's attached 01/06/2021 Proposal/ Bid (Exhibit A) . . ..” (Compendium
of Exhibits Exh D at pdf p. 4.) Moreover, the subcontract states that the NCR
is “operating as an Independent Contractor.” (Id. at pdf p.6.)
 
            Thus, NCR
is entitled to summary judgment on this cause of action for failure to show
triable issues of material fact as to duty. 
 
            Third
Cause of Action Negligence Per Se
 
            “The
negligence per se doctrine, as codified in Evidence Code section 669, creates a
presumption of negligence if four elements are established: ‘(1) the defendant
violated a statute, ordinance, or regulation of a public entity; (2) the
violation proximately caused death or injury to person or property; (3) the
death or injury resulted from an occurrence of the nature of which the statute,
ordinance, or regulation was designed to prevent; and (4) the person suffering
the death or the injury to his person or property was one of the class of
persons for whose protection the statute, ordinance, or regulation was
adopted.’” (Spates v. Dameron Hospital Assn. (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 208,
218 [quoting Galvez v. Frields (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 1410, 1420 in
referencing Evid. Code, § 669].) “The first two elements are questions of fact,
while the latter two are questions of law.” (Spates v. Dameron Hospital
Assn., supra, at p. 218, citing Galvez v. Frields, supra,
at p. 1420.) 
 
            Here,
Plaintiff has not presented evidence showing that NCR breached any duty of care
arising from any relevant statute or regulation, required by California law. (Jones
v. Awad (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 1200, 1210.) 
 
            Thus, NCR
is entitled to summary judgment on this cause of action. 
 
            Fourth
Cause of Action Negligent Maintenance of Premises
 
            “The
elements of a negligence claim and a premises liability claim are the same: [1]
a legal duty of care, [2] breach of that duty, and [3] proximate cause [4]
resulting in injury. Premises liability ‘“is grounded in the possession of the
premises and the attendant right to control and manage the premises”’;
accordingly, ‘“mere possession with its attendant right to control conditions
on the premises is a sufficient basis for the imposition of an affirmative duty
to act.”’ But the duty arising from possession and control of property is
adherence to the same standard of care that applies in negligence cases. In
determining whether a premises owner owes a duty to persons on its property, we
apply the Rowland [Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108 [70
Cal.Rptr. 97, 443 P.2d 561]] factors. Indeed, Rowland itself involved premises
liability.’” (Kesner v. Superior Court (2016) 1 Cal.5th 1132, 1159
[citations omitted].) 
 
            For the same reasons mentioned
previously, Plaintiff has not shown triable issues of material facts as to this
cause of action. 
 
            Eighth
Cause of Action Gross Negligence
 
            California
does not recognize a distinct common law cause of action for gross negligence
apart from negligence. (Jimenez v. 24 Hour Fitness USA, Inc. (2015) 237
Cal.App.4th 546, 552, fn. 3 (Jimenez); Chavez v. 24 Hour Fitness USA,
Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 632, 640 (Chavez); Eriksson v.
Nunnink (2011) 191 Cal.App.4th 826, 856, fn. 18 [“In reality, California
does not recognize a distinct cause of action for ‘gross negligence’
independent of a statutory basis”].) Numerous cases discuss the doctrine of
gross negligence; however, these cases have invariably involved a statute
containing the words “gross negligence” in the text. (Cont’l Ins. Co. v. Am.
Prot. Indus. (1987) 197 Cal.App.3d 322, 329.) Rather, as a degree of
negligence, “[g]ross negligence is pleaded by alleging the traditional elements
of negligence: duty, breach, causation, and damages.” (Rosencrans v. Dover
Images, Ltd. (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1082.) To set forth, “gross
negligence” the plaintiff must also allege conduct by the defendant involving
either “want of even scant care” or “an extreme departure from the ordinary
standard of conduct.” (Jimenez, supra, 237 Cal.App.4th at 555.) Gross
negligence connotes such a lack of care as may be presumed to indicate a
passive and indifferent attitude toward results. (Chavez, supra, 238
Cal.App.4th at 640.) Thus, while gross negligence allegations may be
appropriate within a cause of action for negligence, a separate cause of action
for gross negligence is not. (See Jimenez, supra, 237 Cal.App.4th at 552
fn. 3 [referring to gross negligence as a “degree of negligence”].) 
 
            For the same reasons mentioned
previously, Plaintiff has not shown triable issues of material facts as to this
cause of action. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Defendant’s
motion for summary judgment is GRANTED because Plaintiff failed to show there
are triable issues of material fact as to duty. 
 
            Moving
party to give notice. 
 
 
            
Dated:   July 11, 2024                                                 ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court




Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an
email to the court indicating their 
intention to submit.  alhdeptx@lacourt.org
