 Case Number:  23TRCV00476    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                 Thursday, February 15, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                          Calendar No. 11  



 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Alexander
Mora v. American Honda Motor Co., Inc., et al.   
23TRCV00476

1.     
Alexander Mora’s
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents, Set
One, and Request for Sanctions    
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Alexander Mora’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to
Request for Production of Documents, Set One, and Request for Sanctions is
moot, in part, granted, in part, and denied, in part.  
 
Background 
 
Plaintiff filed the Complaint on February 17, 2023. Plaintiff
alleges the following facts. Plaintiff alleges that his 2020 Honda Accord suffers
from defects in the computerized driver assistant safety systems. Plaintiff
sets forth a cause of action under the Song-Beverly Act for Breach of Express
Warranty as well as a cause of action for Fraudulent Inducement-Concealment. 
 
Motion to Compel Further Responses to Requests for
Production of Documents 
 
A party responding to an inspection demand shall
respond to each demand with one of the following:  a statement the party will comply with the
demand, a representation the party lacks the ability to comply with the demand,
or an objection.  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.210, subd. (a).)  A response to an
inspection demand may be inadequate because it is evasive or incomplete;
contains an incomplete statement of compliance; an inadequate, incomplete, or
evasive representation of inability to comply; or meritless or overly general
objections to a demand.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2031.310, subd. (a).) 
 
If a demanding party believes the responding party
responded inadequately, the demanding party may move for an order compelling
further response.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.310, subd. (a).)  “Unless
notice of this motion is given within 45 days of the service of the verified
response, or any supplemental verified response, or on or before any specific
later date to which the demanding party and the responding party have agreed in
writing, the demanding party waives any right to compel a further response to the
demand.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.310,
subd. (c).)    
 
Meet and Confer
 
Plaintiff set forth a meet and confer declaration in
substantial compliance with CCP § 2031.310(b)(2).  (Declaration, Thach Tran ¶¶ 9-11.)
 
Motion to Compel 
 
Plaintiff seeks further responses to Request for
Production of Documents Nos. 20, 53-60. 
 
As to Nos. 20 and 56-60, the motion is moot. Defendant
served further responses on December 14, 2023.  (Decl., Marcia M. LaCour, ¶ 15.)  Plaintiff appears to acknowledge that the
motion is moot as to Nos. 56-60 but still seeks a further response to No. 20.
However, the Court reiterates that the motion is moot as to these requests. 
 
As to Requests 53 and 54, the motion is granted. The
requests seek specific information related to customer complaints and warranty
repairs involving the same make, model, and year as Plaintiff’s vehicle. The
documents that are sought may lead to the discovery of admissible evidence that
may be relevant to Plaintiff’s claims that Defendant had prior knowledge of the
alleged defects plaguing Plaintiff’s vehicle and violated the Song-Beverly Act
by refusing to purchase the vehicle.  The
documents may also lead to the discovery of admissible evidence as to whether
Defendant fraudulently concealed material information by selling to Plaintiff a
vehicle with a known defect. 
 
For example, in Donlen
v. Ford Motor Co. (2013) 217 Cal.App.4th 138, 154, the Court of
Appeal held that the trial court did not err in refusing to exclude evidence
with respect to vehicles other than Plaintiff’s vehicle because Plaintiff’s
expert testimony was properly limited to the same type of transmission involved
in Plaintiff’s vehicle as well as the other vehicles at issue.  Here, Plaintiff is attempting to pursue
discovery related to similar defects that relate to the same year, make, and
model as Plaintiff’s vehicle.
 
As to Request 55, the motion is denied. 
 
Request 55 asks for all documents produced by “YOU” in
Kathleen Cadena, et al., v. American Honda Motor Company, Inc., et al,
United States District Court, Central District of California case. 
 
The request is not limited to the subject vehicle or
vehicles with the same year, make, or model of the subject vehicle. The request
is overly broad, vague, and burdensome. Plaintiff fails to establish that “all”
documents in another unrelated litigation should be produced in this action.
Extrapolating this request, there would be no preventing similarly situated Plaintiffs
in similar actions based on the Song-Beverly Act from seeking all documents in
numerous other lawsuits throughout the country since presumably a major auto
manufacturer such as Honda must have numerous such actions that are either
closed or pending. The type of information that Plaintiff seeks can be obtained
from more particularized requests rather than a blanket request for all
documents that may have been produced in other litigation. 
 
Therefore, Defendant is ordered to serve further
verified responses to Requests 53 and 54, within 10 days of this date. As to Request
55, the motion is denied. 
 
Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions and
Defendant’s counter request for monetary sanctions are denied.
 
Defendant is ordered to give notice of this ruling.