  Case Number:  21STCV16686    Hearing Date:   February 15, 2024    Dept:  M 
LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT – SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 




 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                 Thursday, February 15, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                          Calendar No. 12  



 
 
 
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Kristy
Redmond, et al. v. Lennox Apartment, et al.   
21STCV16686

1.     
Beach Front
Property Management, Inc.’s Demurrer to Third Amended Complaint 
2.     
Beach Front
Property Management, Inc.’s Motion to Strike Portions of Third Amended Complaint

3.     
Runway Vista
LLC’s Demurrer to Third Amended Complaint
4.     
Runway Vista
LLC’s Motion to Strike Portions of Third Amended Complaint  
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING

Beach Front Property Management, Inc.’s and Runway
Vista LLC’s Demurrers to Third Amended Complaint are sustained with 20 days
leave to amend.
 
Beach Front Property Management, Inc.’s and Runway
Vista LLC’s Motions to Strike Portions of Third Amended Complaint are moot, in
part, and granted with 20 days leave to amend, in part.  
 
Background
 
Plaintiffs’ Complaint was filed on May 3, 2021. Plaintiffs’
Second Amended Complaint was filed on June 10, 2022. Plaintiffs’ Third Amended
Complaint (“TAC”) was filed on June 23, 2023. Plaintiffs allege the following
facts. Plaintiffs suffered bed bug bits in their apartment. The apartment was
sprayed by Amen Pest Control, Inc. Defendant Mabry Management, Company was the
management company that was managing the subject property. Defendant Lennox
Apartment owns the apartment complex. Demurring Defendant Beach Front Property
Management, Inc. was substituted in for DOE 1 on December 16, 2022. Demurring
Defendant Runway Vista LLC was substituted as DOE 2 on January 31, 2023. The
connection that these Defendants have with the apartment is not specified at
all in the TAC. Plaintiffs allege the following causes of action: 1. Battery 2. Negligence 3. Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress 4. Private Nuisance 5. Public Nuisance.   
 
            Meet and Confer
             
            Defendants filed meet and confer
declarations in sufficient compliance with both CCP § 430.41 and CCP §
435.5.  (Decls., Khushboo B. Vasandani.) 
 
            Demurrers

A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a
complaint as a matter of law and raises only questions of law. (Schmidt v.
Foundation Health (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 1702, 1706.)  In testing the sufficiency of the complaint,
the court must assume the truth of (1) the properly pleaded factual
allegations; (2) facts that can be reasonably inferred from those expressly
pleaded; and (3) judicially noticed matters. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39
Cal.3d 311, 318.)  The Court may not
consider contentions, deductions, or conclusions of fact or law.  (Moore v. Conliffe (1994) 7 Cal.App.4th
634, 638.) Because a demurrer tests the legal sufficiency of a complaint, the
plaintiff must show that the complaint alleges facts sufficient to establish
every element of each cause of action.  (Rakestraw
v. California Physicians Service (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 39, 43.)  Where the complaint fails to state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action, courts should sustain the demurrer.
 (C.C.P., § 430.10(e); Zelig v. County
of Los Angeles (2002) 27 Cal.App.4th 1112, 1126.)
Sufficient facts are the essential facts
of the case "with reasonable precision and with particularity sufficiently
specific to acquaint the defendant with the nature, source, and extent of his
cause of action.”  (Gressley v.
Williams (1961) 193 Cal.App.2d 636, 643-644.)  "Whether the plaintiff will be able to
prove the pleaded facts is irrelevant to ruling upon the demurrer."  (Stevens v. Superior Court (1986) 180
Cal.App.3d 605, 609–610.)  Under Code
Civil Procedure § 430.10(f), a demurrer may also be sustained if a complaint is
“uncertain.”  Uncertainty exists where a
complaint’s factual allegations are so confusing they do not sufficiently
apprise a defendant of the issues it is being asked to meet.  (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp.
(1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.)
Defendants demur only to the third cause
of action of the TAC for failure to state sufficient facts to constitute a
cause of action and uncertainty. 
 
            Third Cause of Action for
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress

            Defendants’ demurrers to the third
cause of action are sustained with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiffs fail to
state facts sufficient to state a cause of action and the cause of action is
uncertain.
 
            “A cause of action for IIED requires
proof of: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the
intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing,
emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress; and
(3) the defendant's extreme and outrageous conduct was the actual and proximate
cause of the severe emotional distress.” Crouch v. Trinity Christian Center
of Santa Ana, Inc. (2019) 39 Cal.App.5th 995, 1007.
 
            Plaintiffs have failed to allege any
facts to support any of the elements of the cause of action simply because no
competent facts have been asserted against these Defendants. Demurring
Defendant Beach Front Property Management, Inc. was substituted in for DOE 1 on
December 16, 2022. Demurring Defendant Runway Vista LLC was substituted as DOE
2 on January 31, 2023. The Third Amended Complaint contains no substantive
competent factual allegations against DOE 1 and DOE 2. The allegations asserted
against DOE 1 and DOE 2 are boilerplate agency allegations and/or sheer
speculations made on information and belief. (TAC, ¶¶ 7-8.)  “[P]laintiff may allege on information and
belief any matters that are not within his personal knowledge, if he has
information leading him to believe that the allegations are true and thus a
pleading made on information and belief is insufficient if it merely assert[s]
the facts so alleged without alleging such information that lead[s] [the
plaintiff] to believe that the allegations are true.”  Gomes v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc.
(2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 1149, 1158–1159 (internal citations and quotations are
omitted; emphasis in original.)  
 
Here, Plaintiffs have failed to allege the supporting
facts by which they believe that the allegations made on information and belief
are true. Thus, all the purported factual allegations that are thereafter set
forth against “DOES 1 through 20” are conclusory without any supporting facts. 
 
Plaintiffs fail to plead facts to support the elements
extreme and outrageous conduct with the intent or reckless disregard of causing
emotional distress. Plaintiffs merely parrot conclusions. Plaintiffs rely upon
conclusory statements such as allegations that Defendants acted intentionally,
willfully, and recklessly without facts to support these conclusions.
Plaintiffs rely upon conclusions that Defendant “deliberately and recklessly
chose not to inspect or otherwise ensure that Plaintiffs’ Apartment, and
neighboring apartments, were free of Cimex lectularius (“bedbugs”) immediately
after Plaintiffs notified management of the bedbug problem in the Apartment[.]”
(TAC, ¶ 22.)  However, Plaintiffs allege
no facts to demonstrate that Defendants were aware of any bed bug infestation
in Plaintiff’s unit immediately prior to renting the unit and that despite this
awareness, Defendants knowingly allowed Plaintiffs to rent the unit with the
intent to harm or offend the Plaintiffs. Plaintiffs have alleged a series of
conclusions that Defendants did not eradicate the bed bug problem but the
element of extreme and outrageous conduct with the intent or reckless disregard
of causing emotional distress is simply set forth with conclusions. 
 
            Therefore, the demurrers to the third
cause of action are sustained with 20 days leave to amend. 

            Motions
to Strike  
 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any
time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.  CCP § 436(a). 
The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or
filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of
the court.  CCP § 436(b).  The grounds for a motion to strike are that
the pleading has irrelevant, false or improper matter, or has not been drawn or
filed in conformity with laws.  CCP §
436.  The grounds for moving to strike
must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.  CCP § 437.
 
The Court refers the parties to page 2 of
the notices of motion which provides the lengthy list of 16 items to which the
motions are addressed.
 
As to any items sought to be stricken that
are contained within paragraphs 69 to 84, the motions are moot pursuant to the
Court’s ruling sustaining the demurrers to the TAC. 
 
Civ. Code, § 3294 states, in relevant
part:
“(a) In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.
(b) An employer shall not be liable for
damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee of the
employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the
employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or
safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which the
damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.
With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious
disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice
must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.”
 
As to all other items sought to be
stricken, the motions are granted with 20 days leave to amend. Plaintiffs have
failed to allege competent facts against these Defendants to support the
allegations that are sought to be stricken for the reasons outlined above in
the Court’s ruling to the demurrers. 
 
Therefore, the motions to strike are moot,
in part, and granted with 20 days leave to amend, in part. 
 
Defendants are ordered to give notice of
this ruling. 