 Case Number:  23STCV03455    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




kristin davidkhanian

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
advanced skin care center
   inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV03455




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


November
   20, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  plaintiff’s
  motion to compel responses to form interrogatories and for monetary sanctions
(2)  
  plaintiff’s
  motion to compel responses to special interrogatories and monetary sanctions
(3)  
  plaintiff’s
  motion to compel responses to requests for production of documents and for monetary
  sanctions
(4)  
  plaintiff’s
  motion to deem admissions admitted and for monetary sanctions
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Plaintiff Kristin Davidkhanian           
 
RESPONDING PARTIES:    Defendants Advanced Skin Care Center Inc.,
Cyres Lavian, and Elena Janev
(1)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Form Interrogatories and for Monetary Sanctions
(2)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories and for Monetary Sanctions
(3)  
Motion
to Compel Responses to Requests for Production of Documents and for Monetary
Sanctions
(4)  
Motion
to Deem Requests for Admissions Admitted and for Monetary Sanctions
The court considered the moving papers filed in connection with each
motion. 
The court considered the “Opposition (Joint) to Motions Discovery to
Compel Responses; Declaration of John G. Burgee[,]” filed on November 7, 2024,
for the limited purpose of determining whether defendant Elena Janev served
responses to the subject Requests for Admission before the hearing on this
motion.  The court did not consider the
opposition for any other purpose because it was not filed and served at least
nine court days before the hearing on these motions.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) 
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO FORM
INTERROGATORIES AND FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
                 Plaintiff Kristin Davidkhanian
(“Plaintiff”) moves the court for an order (1) compelling defendant Elena Janev
(“Defendant”) to serve responses to Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories, Set One,
and (2) awarding monetary sanctions in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant
in the amount of $2,702.
If a party to whom
interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).)¿
Plaintiff served Defendant
with Plaintiff’s Form Interrogatories – Employment Law on April 22, 2024, by email.  (Banayan Decl., Ex. A, p. 9.)  Defendant did not serve timely responses to
this discovery and had not served responses as of the date that Plaintiff filed
this motion.  (Banayan Decl., ¶¶
3-4.)  Defendant did not serve a timely
opposition to this motion establishing that responses have since been
served.  The court therefore grants
Plaintiff’s motion to compel Defendant’s responses to Plaintiff’s Form
Interrogatories – Employment Law.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) 
The court grants Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c).)  The
court finds that $757.50 ((1.25 hours x reasonable hourly rate of $550) + $70
filing fee) is a reasonable amount of sanctions to impose against Defendant in
connection with this motion.
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO SPECIAL
INTERROGATORIES AND FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
Plaintiff moves the court for
an order (1) compelling Defendant to serve responses to Plaintiff’s Special
Interrogatories, Set One, and (2) awarding monetary sanctions in favor of Plaintiff
and against Defendant in the amount of $2,702.
If a party to whom
interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, the propounding
party may move for an order compelling response to the interrogatories.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).)¿
Plaintiff served Defendant
with the Special Interrogatories, Set One, on April 22, 2024, by email.  (Banayan Decl., Ex. A, p. 6.)  Defendant did not serve timely responses and
had not served responses as of the date that Plaintiff filed this motion.  (Banayan Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.)  Defendant did not serve a timely opposition
to this motion establishing that responses have since been served.  The court therefore grants Plaintiff’s motion
to compel Defendant’s responses to Plaintiff’s Special Interrogatories, Set One.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) 
The court grants Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c).)  The
court finds that $757.50 ((1.25 hours x reasonable hourly rate of $550) + $70
filing fee) is a reasonable amount of sanctions to impose against Defendant in
connection with this motion.
MOTION TO COMPEL RESPONSES TO REQUESTS
FOR PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS AND FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
Plaintiff moves the court for an order (1) compelling Defendant to
serve responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production of Documents, Set One,
and (2) awarding monetary sanctions in
favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant in the amount of $2,702.
If a party to whom a demand for inspection is directed fails to serve
a timely response, the party making the demand may move for an order compelling
response to the demand.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., §¿2031.300, subd. (b).)¿¿ 
Plaintiff served Defendant with the Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One, by email on April 22, 2024. 
(Banayan Decl., Ex. A, p. 10.)  Defendant did not serve timely responses and
had not served responses as of the date that Plaintiff filed this motion.  (Banayan Decl., ¶ 4.)  Defendant did not serve a timely opposition
to this motion establishing that responses have since been served.  The court therefore grants Plaintiff’s motion
to compel Defendant’s responses to Plaintiff’s Requests for Production
of Documents, Set One.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2031.300, subd. (b).) 
The court grants Plaintiff’s
request for monetary sanctions.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd. (c).)  The
court finds that $757.50 ((1.25 hours x reasonable hourly rate of $550) + $70
filing fee) is a reasonable amount of sanctions to impose against Defendant in
connection with this motion.  (Banayan
Decl., ¶ 5.) 
MOTION TO DEEM REQUESTS FOR ADMISSIONS
ADMITTED AND FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
Plaintiff moves the court for an order (1) deeming admitted the truth
of the matters specified in the Requests for Admission served on Defendant, and
(2) awarding monetary sanctions in
favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant in the amount of $2,702.
If a party to whom requests for admission are directed fails to serve
a timely response, the court shall, upon motion by the propounding party, order
that the matters specified in the requests be deemed admitted, unless the court
finds that the party to whom the requests for admission have been directed has
served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed response that is in
substantial compliance with Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.220.¿ (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (b), (c).)¿¿¿¿¿¿¿¿ 
Plaintiff served Defendant with the Requests for Admission, Set One,
on April 22, 2024, by email.[1]  (Banayan Decl., Ex. A, p. 5.)  Defendant did not serve timely responses and
had not served responses as of the date that Plaintiff filed this motion.  (Banayan Decl., ¶ 4.)  
Defendant has presented evidence establishing that, before the hearing
on this motion, Defendant served proposed responses to Requests for Admission,
numbers 1-4 that are in substantial compliance with Code of Civil Procedure
section 2033.220.  (Nov. 7, 2024 Opp.,
Burgee Decl., Ex. D [Def. Proposed Responses to Requests for Admission].)  The court therefore denies Plaintiff’s motion
as to those requests.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 2033.280, subds. (b), (c).) 
However, the court finds that Defendant has not presented evidence
establishing that, before the hearing on the motion, Defendant served proposed
responses that are in substantial compliance with Code of Civil Procedure
section 2033.220 to Requests for Admission, numbers 5-12.  Although Defendant served proposed responses
to requests labeled with those numbers, those are not the Requests for
Admission that are the subject of this motion. 
(Banayan Decl., Ex. A, p. 3:10-23; Burgee Decl., Ex. D, pp. 2:8-3:7.)  Thus, the court finds that Defendant has not
shown that she responded to Plaintiff’s Requests for Admission, numbers 5-12
and therefore grants Plaintiff’s motion as to those requests.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (b),
(c).) 
The court grants Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c) [“It
is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction . . . on the party or
attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for
admission necessitated this motion”].)  The court finds that $757.50 ((1.25 hours x
reasonable hourly rate of $550) + $70 filing fee) is a reasonable amount of
sanctions to impose against Defendant in connection with this motion.  (Banayan Decl., ¶ 5.)
ORDER
            The court grants plaintiff Kristin
Davidkhanian’s motion to compel responses to form interrogatories and for
monetary sanctions as follows.
            Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2030.290, the court orders defendant Elena Janev to serve on plaintiff
Kristin Davidkhanian, full and complete verified answers, without objections,
to plaintiff Kristin Davidkhanian’s Form Interrogatories – Employment Law, Set
One, within 20 days of the date of service of this order. 
The court grants plaintiff Kristin Davidkhanian’s motion to compel
responses to special interrogatories and for monetary sanctions as follows.
            Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2030.290, the court orders defendant Elena Janev to serve on plaintiff
Kristin Davidkhanian, full and complete verified answers, without objections,
to plaintiff Kristin Davidkhanian’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, within 20
days of the date of service of this order. 
The court grants plaintiff Kristin Davidkhanian’s motion to compel
responses requests for production of documents and for monetary sanctions as
follows.
            Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 2031.300, the court orders defendant Elena Janev (1) to serve on
plaintiff Kristin Davidkhanian full and complete verified responses, without
objections, to plaintiff Kristin Davidkhanian’s Requests for Production of
Documents, Set One, that comply with Code of Civil Procedure sections
2031.210-2031.250, and (2) to produce to plaintiff Kristin Davidkhanian all
documents and things in defendant Elena Janev’s possession, custody, or
control, which are responsive to those requests, within 20 days of the date of
service of this order. 
The court grants in part plaintiff Kristin Davidkhanian’s motion to
deem requests for admission admitted and for sanctions as follows. 
Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, the court orders
that the truth of the matters specified in plaintiff Kristin Davidkhanian’s
Requests for Admission, numbers 5-12, served on defendant Elena Janev on April
22, 2024, is deemed admitted.
            The court orders defendant Elena
Janev to pay monetary sanctions to plaintiff Kristin Davidkhanian in the total
amount of $3,030 within 30 days of the date of service of this order.
            The court orders plaintiff Kristin
Davidkhanian to give notice of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  November 20, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


