  Case Number:  21STCV28642    Hearing Date:   November 20, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




los angeles unified school district;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
scottsdale indemnity company, a/k/a
  nationwide e&S specialty

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


21STCV28642




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


November
   20, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)   defendant’s motion to compel deposition of
  plaintiff’s person most qualified
(2)   plaintiff’s motion for summary judgment or,
  in the alternative, summary adjudication
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                Defendant Scottsdale Indemnity
Company
 
RESPONDING PARTY:        Plaintiff Los Angeles Unified School
District
(1)  
Motion to
Compel Deposition of Plaintiff’s Person Most Qualified
MOVING PARTY:                Plaintiff Los Angeles Unified
School District
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Defendant After-School All-Stars
(2)  
Motion for
Summary Judgment or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication
The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers filed in
connection with each motion. 
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
The court grants plaintiff Los Angeles Unified School District’s
request for judicial notice, filed on August 21, 2024 in support of its pending
motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication
against defendant After-School All-Stars. 
(Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) 
DEFENDANT’S
MOTION TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF PLAINTIFF’S PERSON MOST QUALIFIED
Defendant Scottsdale Indemnity
Company (“Scottsdale”) moves the court for an order  (1) compelling plaintiff Los Angeles Unified
School District (“Plaintiff”) to produce for deposition its person most
qualified, and (2) awarding monetary sanctions in favor of Scottsdale and
against Plaintiff in the amount of $4,000.
The parties agree that, on
June 25, 2024, Plaintiff produced for deposition Henry González as its person
most qualified.  (Colón Decl., ¶ 5;
Reply, p. 2:5-6.)  However, in reply,
Scottsdale contends that the deponent “could not testify regarding the nature
or extent of [Plaintiff’s] pre-tender investigation from 2012 to September of
2015,” and therefore seeks to compel Plaintiff to produce a competent witness
regarding that topic.  (Reply, p .2:12-15.)  Thus, the court (1) finds that Scottsdale’s
motion is moot to the extent it seeks to compel Plaintiff to produce its person
most qualified on any topic other than Plaintiff’s pre-tender investigation
from 2012 to September 2015, and therefore (2) rules on the motion as to this matter
for examination only. 
The court denies Scottsdale’s
motion because the court finds that the Notice of Deposition did not identify,
with reasonable particularity, this matter for examination.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.230 [“If the
deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe
with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested”].)
 None of the 17 matters for examination
identified in the Notice of Deposition requests that Plaintiff produce its
person most qualified to testify regarding Plaintiff’s pretender investigation
of the claim from 2012 to September 2015. 
(Limber Decl., Ex. C, pp. 3:21-5:1.)  Moreover, although Scottsdale contends that,
in meet and confer correspondence, its counsel clarified that the topics
included pre-tender defense fees, the court notes that the meet and confer
correspondence does not specifically state that Scottsdale intended to question
the person most qualified about Plaintiff’s pre-tender coverage investigation.  (Limber Decl., Ex. E, p. 2.)  Further, even if Scottsdale’s meet and confer
correspondence did so specify, the court finds that clarification in the meet
and confer process does not obviate the requirement that a notice of deposition
“describe with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is
requested.”  (Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.230.)  Because Scottsdale’s Notice
of Deposition did not describe the subject matter for examination with
reasonable particularity, the court denies Scottsdale’s motion.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2025.230, 2025.450,
subd. (a).) 
The court denies Scottsdale’s
request for monetary sanctions.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).) 
The court notes that it does
not make any rulings as to Scottsdale’s motion in limine number 1.  (Reply, pp. 2:15-18, 5:18-19.) 
PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
OR, IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary
adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’
pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in
fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil
Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant
summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably
deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or
evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on
the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues
of material fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B.
Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  For the purposes of motion for summary
judgment and summary adjudication, “[a] plaintiff or cross-complainant has met
his or her burden of showing that there is no defense to a cause of action if
that party has proved each element of the cause of action entitling the party
to judgment on the cause of action.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).) 
“Once the plaintiff . . . has met that burden, the burden shifts to the
defendant . . . to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts
exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(1).)  “When deciding whether to grant summary
judgment, the court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers
(except evidence to which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all
reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most
favorable to the party opposing summary judgment.”  (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical
Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467; Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)
Plaintiff moves the court for an order granting summary judgment
in its favor and against defendant After-School All-Stars (“Defendant”) on
Plaintiff’s First Amended Complaint or, in the alternative, granting summary
adjudication in its favor and against Defendant on each cause of action and on
the issues of duty.[1]
1.     Third
Cause of Action for Breach of Contract (Duty to Defend) 
“Parties to a contract . . . may define therein their duties
toward one another in the event of a third party claim against one or both
arising out of their relationship.”  (Crawford
v. Weather Shield Mfg., Inc. (2008) 44 Cal.4th 541, 551.)  One such term may “assign one party, pursuant
to the contract’s language, responsibility for the other’s legal defense when
a third party claim is made against the latter.”  (Ibid. [emphasis in original].)  “‘A cause of action for breach of contract
requires proof of the following elements: (1) existence of the contract; (2)
plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance; (3) defendant’s breach;
and (4) damages to plaintiff as a result of the breach.’”  (Miles v.
Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 394,
402.)   
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met its burden of showing
that there is no defense to the third cause of action for breach of contract
(duty to defend) because Plaintiff has not proven the element of Defendant’s contractual
obligation to defend Plaintiff against all the claims alleged in the underlying
action.
Plaintiff has presented evidence establishing that Plaintiff and
Defendant entered into the “After School Services Master Contract” (the “Master
Contract”), in which Defendant agreed to provide after-school services for
students at Mulholland Middle School for the July 1, 2011 to June 30, 2012
school year.  (Undisputed Material Fact
(“UMF”) No. 1; Andrade Decl., Ex. 8, Master Contract.)  The Master Contract includes an
indemnification and duty to defend provision stating the following:  “[Defendant] shall defend, hold harmless and
indemnify [Plaintiff], its officers, employees, administrators, agents,
attorneys, volunteers, subcontractors and [its] Board of Education . . .
against all liability, loss damage and expense (including reasonable attorney’s
fees) resulting from or arising out of this Master Contract or its performance
to the extent that such loss, expense, damage or liability was proximately
caused by an act or omission of [Defendant], its agents, employees,
subcontractors, volunteers or anyone employed directly or indirectly by it
(excluding [Plaintiff] and [Plaintiff’s] Indemnitees) and from every claim or
demand which may be made by reason of[,]” inter alia, “[a]ny injury to
person or property sustained by any person firm or corporation, caused by any
act, neglect, default, or omission of [Defendant] or of any person, firm, or
corporation, indirectly employed by them upon or in connection with his
performance under Master Contract.”  (UMF
Nos. 2-3; Andrade Decl., Ex. 8, Master Contract, ¶¶ 23, 23.2.)  The Master Contract further requires
Defendant to maintain insurance coverage, including for Plaintiff as an
additional insured.  (UMF No. 4; Andrade
Decl., Ex. 8, Mater Contract, ¶¶ 22, 22.6 [Defendant shall, at its sole cost
and expense, maintain insurance coverage  and add Plaintiff as an additional insured].) 
Plaintiff contends that Defendant had a contractual duty to defend
Plaintiff for the entirety of the underlying action.  (Mot., p. 20, n. 2; Pl. Fact No. 25 [seeking
damages in the amount of $324,288.05, consisting of “outstanding defense fees
and costs that [Plaintiff] incurred in connection with the Jane J.S. Doe
Litigation”].)  The court disagrees. 
As set forth above, the indemnification provision obligates
Defendant to defend Plaintiff against claims “to the extent that such loss,
expense, damage or liability was proximately caused by an act or omission of
[Defendant]” or its agents, and for any injuries “caused by any act, neglect,
default, or omission of [Defendant]” or its employees.  (UMF Nos. 2-3; Andrade Decl., Ex. 8, Master
Contract, ¶¶ 23, 23.2.)  In the
underlying action, minor claimant Jane Doe alleged that she suffered harm as a
result of both Defendant’s conduct and Plaintiff’s conduct.  (RJN Ex. 3, First Amended Complaint in case
No. BC568601, ¶¶ 13-15, 34 [Defendant failed to monitor and supervise Jane Doe and
failed to notice or verify her whereabouts], 16 [both Plaintiff and Defendant
were aware of the assailant’s propensity for violence but allowed him to freely
roam the campus], 17 [the campus only had one security guard on campus, which
allowed the abuser to sexually assault Jane Doe], 42 [both Plaintiff and
Defendant failed to protect students from sexual abuse by other students and
negligently failed to provide a safe and productive learning environment], 44
[Plaintiff failed to implement property security measures around the campus].)  
The parties agree that, after Plaintiff tendered the claim to
Defendant, Defendant was obligated to defend Plaintiff against the underlying
action to the extent that the action alleged that liability and Jane Doe’s
damages were proximately caused by an act or omission of Defendant’s.  (UMF Nos. 2-3; Andrade Decl., Ex. 8, Master
Contract, ¶¶ 23, 23.2; Crawford, supra, 44 Cal.4th at p. 558 [the
duty to defend an indemnitee against claims embraced by the indemnity arises
upon proper tender of the defense and “include those which, at the time of
tender, allege facts that would give rise to a duty of indemnity”]
[emphasis in original]; Centex Homes v. R-Help Construction Co., Inc. (2019)
32 Cal.App.5th 1230, 1236 [“the duty to defend arises as a matter of law from
the mere allegation in the underlying tort action that plaintiff’s injuries
arose out of [the indemnitee’s conduct]”]; Opp., p. 9:5-8 [arguing that
Defendant “is only liable to indemnify [Plaintiff] for liability caused by
[Defendant’s alleged negligence”].)  
However, Plaintiff has based its cause of action on the theory
that it is entitled to recover from Defendant all defense fees and costs
incurred in defending the action as a whole, and not as to the defense fees and
costs incurred in defending the action to the extent that it alleged that
Defendant’s acts or omissions proximately caused the harm to Jane Doe.  The court finds that Plaintiff has not shown
that the language of the indemnification provision obligated Defendant to
defend Plaintiff in connection with the entire underlying litigation.  As set forth above, the Master Contract sets
forth Defendant’s duty to defend and indemnify Plaintiff against liability
arising out of the Master Contract, but only to the extent that the loss,
damages, or liability was proximately caused by an act or omission of
Defendant.  (UMF Nos. 2-3; Andrade Decl.,
Ex. 8, Master Contract, ¶¶ 23, 23.) 
Plaintiff did not present adequate argument or evidence establishing
that the entire underlying action was based solely on Defendant’s alleged
wrongful acts or omissions, such that Defendant was obligated, pursuant to the
language of the Master Contract, to defend Plaintiff against the entire
lawsuit.  The plain language of the provision
limits Defendant’s duty to defend Plaintiff only as to the claims that allege
that Defendant proximately caused the loss, liability, or damages.[2]  (Ibid.) 
The court notes that, in a footnote, Plaintiff has argued that the
allegations regarding Plaintiff’s liability do not limit Defendant’s
obligations because “[t]he broadly worded Indemnification Agreement, when read
in the context of the Master Contract as a whole, obligates [Defendant] to
defend and indemnify [Plaintiff] with respect to all of Jane J.S. Doe’s
claims in the Jane Doe Litigation, notwithstanding any allegations that
[Plaintiff] was negligent based on its own acts or omissions.”  (Mot., p. 20, n. 2 [emphasis added].)  The court finds that Plaintiff has not
presented adequate authority and argument to support this assertion. 
The court also acknowledges that (1) the Master Contract includes
a provision requiring Defendant to maintain insurance and include Plaintiff as
an additional insured, and (2) Civil Code “[s]ection 1641 requires
consideration of the whole of a contract, each portion taken together so as to
give effect to every part, each clause helping to interpret each other.”  (UMF No. 4; Rideau v. Stewart Title of
California, Inc. (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 1286, 1294.)  But the indemnification provision is
unambiguous and the court finds that Plaintiff has not met its burden to show
that the inclusion of the insurance requirement in the Master Contract shows
that it was the intent of the parties to require Defendant to defend Plaintiff
for claims that are based on allegations that a party other than Defendant (i.e.,
here, Plaintiff) was the proximate cause of the alleged liability, loss, or
damage.   
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met its burden to
show that Defendant had an obligation, pursuant to the terms of the parties’
Master Contract, to defend Plaintiff in the underlying action in its
entirety.  The court therefore denies
Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication (1) as to the third cause of action
for breach of contract (duty to defend), and (2) as to the issue of whether
Defendant “had a duty to defend [Plaintiff] under the [Master Contract], with
respect to the claims brought against [Plaintiff] by Claimant Jane J.S. Doe, in
the action designated Jane J.S. Doe v. Los Angeles Unified School District,
et al., Los Angeles Superior Court Case No. BC568601, California Second
District Court of Appeal Case No. B2283859[.]”[3]  (Notice of Mot., p. 1:12-14, 1:18-23.) 
2.     Fourth
Cause of Action for Breach of Contract (Duty to Indemnify) 
“[T]he duty to indemnify has as its purpose ‘to resolve liability
. . . after liability is established’ [citation].”  (Certain
Underwriters at Lloyd’s of London v. Superior Court (2001) 24 Cal.4th 945,
958 [emphasis in original omitted] [internal citation omitted].)  Parties
may contract to “require one party to indemnify the other, under specified
circumstances, for moneys paid or expenses incurred by the latter as a result
of such claims.”  (Crawford, supra,
44 Cal.4th at p. 551.)  “‘A cause of
action for breach of contract requires proof of the following elements: (1)
existence of the contract; (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for
nonperformance; (3) defendant’s breach; and (4) damages to plaintiff as a
result of the breach.’”  (Miles, supra, 236 Cal.App.4th at
p. 402.)   
The court finds that Plaintiff has not met its burden of showing
that there is no defense to the fourth cause of action for breach of contract
(duty to indemnify) because Plaintiff has not proven the element of Defendant’s
contractual obligation to indemnify Plaintiff for all of the costs that it
incurred in the underlying action. 
First, as set forth in connection with the third cause of action,
the court finds that Plaintiff has not shown that Defendant had an obligation
to indemnify Plaintiff for all the costs incurred in defending and settling the
underlying action because (1) the plain language of the Master Contract
obligated Defendant only to indemnify Plaintiff for liability proximately
caused by an act or omission of Defendant’s, and (2) the underlying action was
not solely based on the conduct of Defendant, such that Plaintiff has not shown
that Defendant is required to indemnify Plaintiff for all of the damages it
incurred in the underlying action.  (Mot.,
pp. 18:28-19:3 [arguing that Plaintiff “is entitled to reimbursement for all
of its reasonable defense fees and costs incurred in connection with” the
underlying litigation], 20:1-2 [arguing that Plaintiff is entitled to
indemnification from Defendant for the settlement amount of $700,000].) 
Second, the court agrees with Plaintiff that “indemnity should be
afforded under any circumstance where to do so furthers the manifest intent of
the parties to the contract and where the loss sustained would not have
occurred without the indemnitor’s negligence.” 
(Morton Thiokol, Inc. v. Metal Building Alteration Co. (1987) 193
Cal.App.3d 1025, 1029.)  But Plaintiff
has not met its burden to show that (1) finding the existence of a duty to indemnify
Plaintiff for all of the defense costs and the settlement amount incurred in
the underlying action furthers the intent of the parties, and (2) all of the
losses sustained—as alleged in the underlying complaint—would not have occurred
without Defendant’s negligence.  (Ibid;
Id. at p. 1030 [“Where . . . the agreement clearly indicates that one
party was to be indemnified for any damages sustained as a result of another’s
breach of the contract, and it is undisputed that the accident would never have
happened except for such breach, we conclude that the indemnity is viable
notwithstanding the jury’s finding of the indemnitee’s ‘active’ negligence”].)
Third, the court notes that, “[i]n the context of noninsurance
indemnity agreements, if a party seeks to be indemnified for its own active
negligence, or regardless of the indemnitor’s fault, the contractual
language on the point ‘must be particularly clear and explicit, and will be
construed strictly against the indemnitee.” 
(Prince v. Pacific Gas & Electric Co. (2009) 45 Cal.4th 1151,
1158 [emphasis in original].)  Thus,
because Plaintiff seeks to be indemnified for the claims alleged in the
underlying complaint regardless of Defendant’s fault (since Plaintiff is
seeking indemnification based on allegations of Plaintiff’s negligence), the language
of the Master Contract must be particularly clear and explicit.  (Ibid.)  The Master Contract does not clearly and
explicitly require Defendant to indemnify Plaintiff for the wrongful acts or
omission attributable to Plaintiff for the reasons set forth above. 
Thus, the court finds that Plaintiff has not met its burden to
show that Defendant had an obligation, pursuant to the terms of the parties’
Master Contract, to indemnify Plaintiff for all fees, costs, and monies paid in
connection with the underlying action. 
The court therefore denies Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication
(1) as to the fourth cause of action for breach of contract (duty to
indemnify), and (2) as to the issue of whether Defendant “had a duty to
indemnify [Plaintiff] under the Master Contract with respect to the claims
brought against [Plaintiff] by Claimant Jane J.S. Doe, in the Jane J.S. Doe
Litigation.”  (Notice of Mot., pp.
1:15-17, 2:1-4.)  The court further
denies Plaintiff’s motion for summary adjudication as to whether Defendant
breached such a duty because that is an improper subject for summary
adjudication.  (Ibid. [a motion for
summary adjudication may be made only as to a cause of action, affirmative
defense, punitive damages, or issue of duty].)
ORDER
The court denies defendant Scottsdale Indemnity Company’s motion
to compel deposition of person most qualified. 
The court denies plaintiff Los Angeles Unified School District’s
motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication
against defendant After-School All-Stars. 
The court orders defendant After-School All-Stars to give notice
of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  November 20, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court


