  Case Number:  23STCP01071    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  H Annex
Walnut Automotive Colors & Supply, Inc. v. Rouillard, et al.,

Case No. 23STCP01071


ORDER
ON MOTIONS FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS
1.       Cross-Defendant
Rachel M. Darvish’s Amended Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings as to the
Third Cause of Action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress is
DENIED.
2.       Cross-Defendant
Keyvan Rahbar’s Amended Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is DENIED.
I.        Background 
Plaintiff
Annex Walnut Automotive Colors & Supply, Inc. (“Annex”) alleges as follows:

          Annex is a distributor of automotive
and industrial coatings and paint. Rachel M. Darvish (“Darvish”), Keyvan Rahbar
(“Rahbar”), and Maryam Rouillard (“Rouillard”) each own 33% of the outstanding
shares and voting power of Annex. Rouillard has been responsible for the
day-to-day management and operations of Annex. Annex seeks to wind up and
dissolve. Rouillard has never distributed any income to Darvish and Rahbar but
has reported to the IRS distributions to both. In December 2022, Rouillard
informed Darvish and Rahbar of her plans to retire, that she had arranged to
sell sale of Annex to one its competitors, Wesco Group, LLC (hereinafter “Wesco
Group”), and that she and Wesco Group had agreed on a total estimated purchase
price of $1,308,385.00. On January 30, 2023, Rouillard changed Annex’s
Statement of Information on file with the California Secretary of State to name
herself as agent for service of process and its only director and Chief
Executive Officer.
          On March 6, 2023, Darvish, Rahbar, and
Rouillard met to discuss how the sale and distribution of the proceeds would be
handled; during that meeting, Rouillard became angry and physically assaulted
Darvish. Rouillard interfered with the sale due in part to the March 6
incident, causing Wesco Group to withdraw from the transaction. On or about May
1, 2023, Darvish and Rahbar contacted Wesco Group and were able to revive Wesco
Group’s initial offer to purchase Annex.
          On May 17, 2023, in order to
effectuate the sale, Wesco Group submitted a list of documents to be produced
by Annex. Rouillard is one of two individuals affiliated with Annex who has
access to this information, the other person being Rouillard’s nephew, Amir
Karimpour (“Karimpour”). Rouillard has failed to cooperate and has directed
Annex’s employees, including Karimpour, not to cooperate and supply the
requested information. Rouillard has contacted representatives of Wesco Group,
as well as other third parties and potential buyers, and informed them that she
will prevent the sale of Annex to Wesco Group or to those third-party buyers.
On
June 8, 2023, Annex filed a “Verified First Amended Petition,” asserting causes
of action against Rouillard, John Kobes, Calvin Kobes, and Does 1-20 for:
1.       Request for Court Supervision Over
Voluntary, 2.       Dissolution—California
Corporations Code Section 1904,3.       Breach
of Fiduciary Duty,4.       Conversion,5.       Fraud,6.       Intentional
Interference with Prospective Economic Relations, and7.       Declaratory
Relief.
On July 7, 2023, an “Order on Petitioner Annex Walnut
Automotive Colors & Supply, Inc.’s Motion for the Appointment of a
Receiver” was filed.
On August 17, 2023, the Court related Case
No. 23PSCV01022 to the instant case and
designated the instant case as the lead case. 
On November 20, 2023, Rouillard filed a First Amended
Cross-Complaint (“FACC” or the “Operative Cross Complaint”), asserting causes
of action against Darvish, Rahbar, Annex and Roes 21-50 for:
1.       Breach of Fiduciary Duty,
2.       Aiding and Abetting Breach of Fiduciary
Duty,
3.       Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress,
4.       Fraud,
5.       Common Count, and
6.       Declaratory Relief. 
On
November 21, 2023, an “Order Authorizing Receiver Kevin Singer to Draw Upon
Annex Walnut Automotive Colors & Supply, Inc., Wells Fargo Line of Credit
Account” was entered. 
On
December 22, 2023, an “Order to Show Cause Re: Contempt Against Defendant” was
entered. 
On
April 2, 2024, a “Revised Order Scheduling Auction Hearing and Sale of Annex
Walnut Automotive Colors & Supply, Inc.” was entered. 
On
May 16, 2024, an “Order Confirming Sale of Annex Walnut Automotive Colors &
Supply, Inc. to Rachel Darvish and Keyvan Rahbar and/or Their Assignee(s)” was
entered. 
Pending before the Court are (1)
Darvish’s motion for judgment on the pleadings as to the third cause of action
in the Operative Cross Complaint and (2) Rahbar’s motion for judgment on the
pleadings as to the third, fourth, and sixth causes of action in the Operative
Cross Complaint. For the reasons stated herein, both motions are denied. 
II.      Legal Standard
The rules governing
demurrers are generally applicable to a motion for judgment on the pleadings. (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998)
67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999; Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (d) [“The grounds for
motion. . . shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any
matter of which the court is required to take judicial notice. Where the motion
is based on a matter of which the court may take judicial notice. . ., the
matter shall be specified in the notice of motion, or in the supporting points
and authorities, except as the court may otherwise permit”].) 
 
A motion by a plaintiff
may only be made on the grounds “that the complaint states facts sufficient to
constitute a cause or causes of action against the defendant and the answer
does not state facts sufficient to constitute a defense to the complaint.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c)(1)(A).) A motion by a defendant may only be made
on the grounds that (1) “[t]he court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the
cause of action alleged in the complaint” or (2) “[t]he complaint does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd. (c).)

III.     Discussion
          A.       Motion
for Judgment on the Pleadings (by Darvish)
Darvish
moves for judgment on the pleadings as to the third cause of action (i.e., for
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress) in the Operative Cross Complaint.
The
Court notes that on December 26, 2023, Darvish filed a demurrer to the
Operative Cross Complaint. As to the third cause of action, Darvish asserted
that “the facts upon which the cause of action is predicated are within the
scope of the litigation privilege. Code of Civil Procedure § 430.10(e).”
(12/26/23 Dem., 2:14-16.) Darvish further purported to quote paragraphs 33 and
34 of the Operative Cross Complaint and argued that “allegations of malfeasance
must be brought as a derivative claim and the majority electing to pursue
liquidation is absolutely privileged.” (Id., 7:16-8:8.)
On
February 9, 2024, Judge Peter Hernandez overruled Darvish’s demurrer with
respect to the third cause of action. Darvish, in this instant motion, asserts
that the third cause of action fails in part because it “alleges liability on
account of Annex and the shareholders initiating the liquidation action,” which
is privileged. (Motion, 3:21-4:17). This argument, however, was raised
previously and rejected.
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings may be brought on the same grounds as an
unsuccessful demurrer only if “there has been a material change in applicable
case law or statute since the ruling on the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 438,
subd. (g); Farber v. Bay View Terrace Homeowners Ass’n (2006) 141
Cal.App.4th 1007.) Darvish has failed to provide the Court with any such
showing.
Further,
while Darvish also argues that Rouillard’s allegation concerning a phone call
made by Rahbar to Rouillard’s elderly mother “in the later hours of the night”
does not constitute intentional infliction of emotional distress, the Court
declines to consider such argument, as a motion for judgment on the pleadings
cannot be granted as to part of a cause of action.
Darvish’s
motion is denied.
          B.       Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings
(by Rahbar)
Rahbar
moves for judgment on the pleadings as to the third, fourth and sixth causes of
action (i.e., for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress, Fraud and
Declaratory Relief, respectively) in the Operative Cross Complaint.
Again,
on December 26, 2023, Darvish filed a demurrer to the Operative Cross Complaint.
On December 28, 2023, Rahbar filed a joinder to Darvish’s demurrer. On February
9, 2024, Judge Hernandez granted Rahbar’s joinder, overruled Darvish’s demurrer
to the third and sixth causes of action, and overruled Darvish’s demurrer to
the fourth cause of action as moot (i.e., inasmuch as the fourth cause of
action was not asserted against her).
Rahbar,
in this instant motion, repeats Darvish’s argument that the third cause of
action fails in part because it “alleges liability on account of Annex and the
shareholders initiating the liquidation action,” which is privileged. (Motion,
3:21-4:17.) This argument, however, was raised previously and rejected, as was
Rahbar’s argument that the sixth cause of action failed because it was
dependent upon other, flawed causes of action. Rahbar has failed to provide the
Court with any showing that “there has been a material change in applicable
case law or statute since the ruling on the demurrer.” Again, the Court
declines to consider Rahbar’s argument with respect to Paragraph 41 (pertaining
to Rouillard’s elderly mother, discussed above) in the third cause of action,
as a motion for judgment on the pleadings cannot be granted as to part
of a cause of action.
Finally,
the Court determines that Rouillard’s fourth cause of action has been
sufficiently pled. The elements of fraud are: (a) misrepresentation (false
representation, concealment, or nondisclosure); (b) knowledge of falsity (or
‘scienter’); (c) intent to defraud, i.e., to induce reliance; (d) justifiable
reliance; and (e) resulting damage.” (Charnay v. Cobert (2006) 145
Cal.App.4th 170, 184 [quotations and citation omitted].) “[F]raud must be pled
specifically; general and conclusory allegations do not suffice.” (Alfaro v.
Community Housing Improvement System & Planning Assn., Inc. (2009) 171
Cal.App.4th 1356, 1384 [quotations and citation omitted].) A plaintiff
asserting fraud must “plead facts which show how, when, where, to whom, and by
what means the representations were tendered.” (Cansino v. Bank of America (2014)
224 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469 [quotations and citation omitted].)
Rahbar fails to accurately quote
Paragraphs 47 and 48 from the Operative Cross Complaint. Rouillard has alleged,
in relevant part, that Rahbar specifically promised her compensation for her
work at least once, in October 2022, and she made retirement decisions based on
his misrepresentations. Rouillard has also alleged that she lent money to Annex
when the business on occasion within the last 24 months needed additional funds
and was promised that any monies lent would be repair from the sale of Annex.
All the elements of fraud are specifically pled: that Rouillard misrepresented
that she would be fairly compensated, that it happened in October 2022 (or on
occasions within the last 24 months with respect to the lending of monies), and
that she reasonably agreed to work without fair present compensation (or lend
monies) because she believed she would be paid in the future based on her
long-standing relationship with Rahbar.
Rahbar’s motion is denied. 