 Case Number:  24PSCV01311    Hearing Date:   November 5, 2024    Dept:  H Wang v. Liu, et al., Case No. 24PSCV01311
Proposed Intervenor United Financial Casualty Company’s Motion for Leave to
Intervene is GRANTED. 
 
Background
Plaintiff
Min Wang (“Plaintiff”) allegedly sustained injuries and damages in a May 2,
2022 motor vehicle accident.
On
April 23, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint, asserting a negligence cause of
action against Bin Liu, DLJMK, Inc. (“DLJMK”), Zhi Qin Cai Zhang, and Does 1-25.
On
June 27, 2024, Plaintiff filed three “Amendment[s] to Complaint,” wherein MJKC,
Inc., JKM Warriors, Inc., and Katerine Lineth Cai Lane were substituted in lieu
of Does 1-3, respectively.
A
Case Management Conference and Order to Show Cause Re: Failure to File Proof of
Service are set for January 28, 2025. Pending before the Court is United Financial Casualty Company’s motion to
intervene.
 
Legal Standard
 
“A
nonparty shall petition the court for leave to intervene by noticed motion or
ex parte application. The petition shall include a copy of the proposed
complaint in intervention or answer in intervention and set forth the grounds
upon which intervention rests.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (c).)  
 
“The
court shall, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the
action or proceeding if either of the following conditions is satisfied: 
(A)
A provision of law confers an unconditional right to intervene. 
(B)
The person seeking intervention claims an interest relating to the property or
transaction that is the subject of the action and that person is so situated
that the disposition of the action may impair or impede that person’s ability
to protect that interest, unless that person’s interest is adequately
represented by one or more of the existing parties.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (d)(1).) 
 
“The
court may, upon timely application, permit a nonparty to intervene in the
action or proceeding if the person has an interest in the matter in litigation,
or in the success of either of the parties, or an interest against both.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 387, subd. (d)(2).)
 
Discussion
Proposed Intervenor United Financial Casualty
Company (“Proposed Intervenor”) moves for an order to intervene on behalf of
its insured, DLJMK, to file an Answer-In-Intervention and to stay discovery
requests against DLJMK.
“Intervention may . . . be allowed in the insurance
context, where third party claimants are involved, when the insurer is allowed
to take over in litigation if its insured is not defending an action, to avoid
harm to the insurer.” (Royal Indemnity Co. v. United Enterprises, Inc.
(2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 194, 206.)
The only manner in which an insurer may defend or exercise the powers of its
insured suspended corporation is by intervening in the action under Code of
Civil Procedure section 387 and asserting any defenses on behalf of its
insured.  (Kaufman & Broad Communities, Inc. v. Performance Plastering, Inc.
(2006) 136 Cal.App.4th 212, 220.)
 
“An insurer’s right to intervene in an
action against the insured, for personal injury or property damage, arises as a
result of Insurance Code section 11580.”[FN1] (Reliance
Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000) 84 Cal.App.4th 383, 386.) 
The motion originally came on calendar on October
10, 2024; at that time, the Court continued the hearing to November 5, 2024 and directed counsel for Proposed Intervenor to
file and serve a supplemental declaration supporting Proposed Intervenor’s
assertion that DLJMK is a “defunct corporation that was terminated” (Motion,
3:28; see also, 7:1 and 8:4-5).
On October 22, 2024, Proposed Intervenor filed (and
electronically served upon Plaintiff’s counsel) the “Supplemental Declaration
of Katrina Wang in Support of Motion for Leave to Intervene.” Wang attests
therein that DLJMK is a “defunct corporation that was terminated” and attaches
a printout from the California Secretary of State reflecting DLJMK’s “Terminated”
status as Exhibit A. (Wang Decl., ¶ 5, Exh. A.) Wang also confirms that
Proposed Intervenor is the insurance carrier for DLJMK. (Id., ¶ 6). 
The Court determines that intervention is
appropriate. Proposed Intervenor has a direct and immediate interest in the
litigation, because it may be required to satisfy any judgment entered against
its insured, DLJMK, which is presently in terminated status. In addition,
intervention by Proposed Intervenor will not enlarge the issues in this case,
as Proposed Intervenor seeks to assert the same defenses which would have been
asserted by DLJMK. Proposed Intervenor merely seeks to “step into the shoes” of
DLJMK.
The motion is granted.  
 

