  Case Number:  21STCV46466    Hearing Date:   May 6, 2024    Dept:  F51 
MAY 3, 2024
 

MOTION TO COMPEL FURTHER
DISCOVERY RESPONSES

(Request for
Production of Documents, Set One)
Los Angeles Superior Court
Case # 21STCV46466

 
Motion
filed: 3/27/24
 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiffs
John Doe 1, an individual; John Doe 2, an individual; John Doe 3, an
individual; John Doe 4, an individual; John Doe 5, an individual; John Doe 6,
an individual; John Doe 7, an individual; John Doe 8, an individual; John Doe
9, an individual; and John Doe 10, an individual (collectively, “Plaintiffs”)
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant
Facey Medical Group (“Defendant”)
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED: An
order compelling Defendant’s further responses to Plaintiffs’ Requests for
Production of Documents (“RFPs”), Set One, Request No. 11.
 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING: The
motion is granted. Defendant to provide further code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s
RFP No. 11, as modified herein, within 30 days.
 
BACKGROUND
 
On 12/1/23, Plaintiffs served Defendant with their Requests
for Production of Documents, Set One. (Decl. of James A. Chortanian, ¶ 6.) On 1/24/24,
Defendant served its responses thereto. (Ibid.)
 
On 3/27/24, Plaintiffs filed the instant motion to compel further
responses to RFP No. 11. On 4/23/24, Defendant filed its opposition. On
4/29/24, Plaintiffs filed their reply.
 
ANALYSIS
 
California law requires a
responding party to respond to each request for production of documents with
either a statement of compliance, a representation that the party lacks the
ability to comply, or an objection to the demand. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.210,
subd. (a).) 
 
If the response includes an
objection to the demand in part, it must also include a statement of compliance
or noncompliance as set forth above. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.240, subd. (a).)
Additionally, the response must (1) identify the particular document that falls within the category of the request to which the
objection is being made, and (2) expressly set forth the extent of, and
specific ground for, the objection. (Id., subd. (b).) A propounding party may move
for an order compelling further response to a discovery request if it decides
that: “(1) A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete”; “(2) A
representation of inability to comply is inadequate, incomplete, or evasive”;
or “(3) An objection in the response is without merit or too general.” (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (a).) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs seek to
compel additional responses to their first set of RFPs, specifically Request
No. 11, which seeks: “All DOCUMENTS, including, but not limited to, each
and every electronic communication, patient portal message, correspondence, and
any other communication relating to complaints received by FACEY MEDICAL
GROUP pertaining to GREGORY CASTILLO, M.D. from January 1, 2009, through the
present date.” (Pls.’ Sep. Stmt. 2:6–9 [emphasis added].) 
 
A.   
Meet and Confer
 
A motion to compel further
discovery responses must be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration stating, “facts showing a reasonable and good faith attempt at an
informal resolution of each issue presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. §§
2031.310, subd. (b)(2); 2016.040.) 
 
Here, Plaintiffs’ counsel declares
that on 2/22/24, he sent Defendant’s counsel meet and confer correspondence regarding
the issues raised in the instant motion. (Chortanian Decl. ¶ 7.) Counsel for
the parties met and conferred telephonically on 2/29/24, and they agreed that
Defendant would serve supplemental responses to Plaintiff’s first set of RFPs,
but ultimately no supplemental responses to RFP No. 11 were provided. (Ibid.) The
Court therefore finds that counsel has satisfied the preliminary meet and
confer requirement under Code of Civil Procedure section 2031.310, subdivision
(b)(2). 
 
B.    
Defendant’s
Objections
 
Here, Plaintiffs argue that Defendant’s
objections to Request No. 11 are without merit. (Pls.’ Mot. 5:5–7; Code
Civ. Proc. § 2031.310, subd. (a).) Defendant objected to the subject request as
follows:
“Objection. This request is overly burdensome,
vague, ambiguous, oppressive, overly broad as to time and scope, and premature.
The request violates California Evidence Code § 1157; California Business &
Professions Code §§ 805(g); 805.01(d); 805.8(c); 42 U.S.C. §§ 11101, e.t seq.;
42 U.S.C. § 17921, et. seq.; 42 U.S.C. § 290dd-2; 42 C.F.R. Part 2. The request
attempts to violate the immunities and privacy rights of Defendants and/or
third parties as protected by the United States Constitution, the Constitution
for the State of California as well as common law privacy rights and the
physician-patient privilege. The requests seek information protected by the
attorney-client privilege and the attorney work product doctrine. The request
is not full and complete in and of itself, since it requires reference to outside
documents. The request seeks information which is not relevant and not
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Based on
the foregoing objections, defendant is unable to provide a response.” (Pls.’
Sep. Stmt. 2:10–22.)
 
a.                  
Relevance 
 
Plaintiffs argue that any
objections to the subject RFP on the basis that it seeks irrelevant matter are
meritless because the scope of discoverability is much broader than what is
relevant (Pls.’ Mot. 6:14–21.) Discovery is relevant if it is admissible as
evidence, or “appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of
admissible evidence.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010.) “Discovery may relate to
the claim or defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to
the action.” (Ibid.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs assert that “a
critical evidentiary factor at issue in establishing the allegations and causes
of action asserted by Plaintiffs against Facey is the extent to which its staff
and/or agents had knowledge of Dr. Castillo’s conduct and still allowed its
patients to be seen by Dr. Castillo despite that knowledge.” (Pls.’ Mot. 8:17–20.) Defendant argues in opposition
that “whether there were prior complaints against Dr. Castillo (which may or
may not have involved claims of sexual misconduct) has no bearing on the
elements of Plaintiffs’ causes of action for sexual battery in their specific
medical treatments.” (Def.’s Opp. 7:2–4.)
 
The Court agrees with Plaintiffs that Request No. 11
seeks information discoverable as relevant to Plaintiffs’ claims, namely that
Defendant had prior knowledge of Dr. Castillo’s history of sexual misconduct
and failed to warn its patients thereof. (SAC ¶ 147.) Based on the foregoing,
the Court finds that Defendant’s relevance objections to RFP No. 11 are without
merit.
 
b.                 
Evidence Code Section 1157
 
Plaintiffs further argue that Defendant’s objections to RFP
No. 11 on the basis that it violates Evidence Code section 1157 is without
merit. (Pls.’
Mot. 7:1–2.) Evidence Code section 1157
protects from discovery the proceedings and records of certain review
committees responsible for evaluating and improving the quality of health care,
such as: (1) hospital staff committees; (2) peer review bodies, as defined in Business
and Professions Code 805(a)(1)(B); and (3) health care professional society
committees. (Evid. Code § 1157, subd. (a).)
 
Here, Plaintiffs assert that “the request at issue does not
call for incident reports that would be subject to any Evidence Code Section
1157 or Business & Professions Code Section 805 privilege. The request
calls for a very narrow and specific topic, which includes complaints received
by Facey relating to Dr. Castillo from January 1, 2009, through the present
date, not any response, action, or meeting in connection therewith.” (Pls.’
Mot. 7:2–5.) “At a minimum, Plaintiffs are allowed to determine whether such a
report even exists in order to take the next steps to discover whether the
report is truly privileged.” (Id. at 7:7–9.)
 
Defendant argues in opposition that the documents sought by
Plaintiff are connected to proceedings of peer review bodies and therefore
protected from discovery. Defendant argues that “case law holds that records
submitted to a peer review committee for review (such as patient complaints)
are also protected from discovery under § 1157.” (Def.’s Opp. 4:18–19, citing Alexander
v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 1218.) In Alexander, the
California Supreme Court held that physician applications for hospital staff
privileges submitted to a hospital’s medical staff committee were protected
from discovery under section 1157 because “nothing in the statute supports the
suggestion that materials submitted to a committee for review are not protected
‘records’ of the committee.” (5 Cal.4th at 1225.)
 
Here, Defendant argues that “section 1157 applies to
exclude the evidence sought by Plaintiffs in this request. Any such complaints
would have been gathered pursuant to a peer review of Dr. Castillo’s
professional competency. Any details as to complaints, such as the type of
complaint, the identity of complainants and the actions taken by Defendants
would necessitate preparing a compilation of information derived from peer
review records. … As in Alexander, any patient complaints submitted
would have been submitted for review and action by the peer review committee
and are therefore privileged from disclosure.” (Def.’s Opp. 5:25–6:5.)
 
On reply, Plaintiffs maintain that the section 1157
privilege is inapplicable to patient complaints received by Defendant independent
of any peer review processes. (Pls.’ Reply 3:5–6.) The Court agrees and finds
that even if such complaints are gathered pursuant to a peer review
process of Dr. Castillo’s professional competency, there is little basis to
conclude that they are created for this specific purpose. However, the
Court finds that as written, RFP No. 11 seeks documents outside the scope of
the complaints themselves. As Defendant observes, “by the plain language of the
request, it is not only seeking any complaints themselves, but also any
documents ‘relating to’ the complaints themselves, without limitation.” (Def.’s
Opp. 7:21–22.) Therefore, Plaintiffs’ contention that “the request calls for a
very narrow and specific topic” is contradicted by the plain language of the
request. (Pls.’ Reply 3:6–7.)
 
Based on the foregoing, the Court finds that RFP No. 11, as
written, is overbroad and seeks documents that may be protected from discovery
under Evidence Code section 1157. To this extent, the Court modifies RFP 11 to
seek only “electronic communications, patient portal messages,
correspondence, and any other communications received by FACEY MEDICAL GROUP
directly complaining of GREGORY CASTILLO, M.D.’s conduct in providing medical
services.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.020, subd. (a) [“The court shall limit the
scope of discovery if it determines that the … intrusiveness of that discovery
clearly outweighs the likelihood that the information sought will lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.”]
 
 
c.                  
Third Party Privacy
 
Defendant further objected to
RFP No. 11 to the extent “the request attempts to violate the immunities
and privacy rights of Defendants and/or third parties as protected by the
United States Constitution, the Constitution for the State of California as
well as common law privacy rights and the physician-patient privilege.” (Pl.’s
Sep. Stmt. 2:14–17.) When information protected by the right to privacy under
article I, section 1 of the California Constitution is sought by way of
discovery, the burden falls on the party asserting a privacy interest to show
that their privacy interests are so serious that they outweigh the interests of
the requesting party’s prospective invasion. (Williams v. Superior Court
(2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 557.)
 
The
constitutional protection of privacy in discovery matters also extends to
nonparties. “In weighing the privacy interests of the third party, the trial
court should consider the nature of the information sought, its inherent
intrusiveness, and any specific showing of a need for privacy, including any
harm that disclosure of the information might cause.” (In re Marriage of
Williamson (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 1303, 1319.)
 
Patients
have a right to privacy in their medical information under the California
Constitution, although this right is not absolute. Invasion of a privacy
interest is not a violation of the California constitutional right to privacy
when the invasion is justified by a competing interest. (Fett v. Medical Bd.
of Cal. (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 211, 221.) Matters that would otherwise be
protected by the constitutional right to privacy are discoverable only if they
are directly relevant to the plaintiff's claim and essential to a fair
resolution of the action. (Vinson v. Superior Court (1987) 43 Cal.3d
833, 842.)
Here, Defendant argues that “there is no legitimate purpose for producing
the names and contact information of the patients as is directly sought by this
request. These other patients who may have complained against Dr. Castillo in
the past have no say in this matter.” (Def.’s Opp. 9:7–9.) In reply, Plaintiffs
argue that Defendant “is standing by an improper blanket objection on grounds
that can easily be remedied to protect any privacy concerns.” (Pls.’ Reply
3:21–23.) Plaintiffs assert that, for example, the “medical privacy issues
Facey refers to can be easily addressed through redaction of any patient names
or any other identifying information pertaining to the patient.” (Id. at
3:17–18.)
 
Based on the foregoing, it appears to the Court that Plaintiffs do not
seek any third-party patient names or other identifying information which would
be protected by the California Constitution. Rather, Plaintiffs apparently seek
the substance of any complaints made by such patients to Defendant regarding
Dr. Castillo’s misconduct in providing them medical services. Accordingly, to
this extent, the Court finds that Defendant’s third-party privacy objections to
RFP No. 11 are without merit, particularly where Plaintiffs appear amenable to measures
which would limit the disclosure of any private patient information.
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is granted. Defendant to provide further
code-compliant responses to Plaintiff’s RFP No. 11, as modified herein, within
30 days.