 Case Number:  23STCV09104    Hearing Date:   November 15, 2024    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 



SIRANUSH AKHERDYAN,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
MASIS TAMAZYAN, et al., 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


23STCV09104




Hearing Date:


November 15, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:  
 
MASIS
  TAMAZYANS AND ELEN TAHMASIANS MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS AGAINST
  PLAINTIFFS [sic] COMPLAINT




AND RELATED CROSS-ACTION


 



            
Background
Plaintiff Siranush
Akherdyan (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on April 25, 2023 against Defendants
Masis Tamazyan (“Tamazyan”) and Elen Tahmasian (“Tahmasian”). The Complaint
alleges causes of action for (1) declaratory relief re: real property resulting
trust and (2) “in the alternative,” declaratory relief re: deed of trust
priority. 
On July 7, 2023,
Tahmasian filed a Cross-Complaint against Cross-Defendants Siranush Akherdyan,
a.k.a Siranush Akhverdyan, Soorage Tomasian, and Tamazyan. The Cross-Complaint
alleges causes of action for (1) fraudulent conveyance, (2) quiet title, (3)
cancellation of instrument, (4) negligence, and (5) declaratory relief.  
Tamazyan and Tahmasian
(jointly, the “Moving Parties”) now move for judgment on the pleadings as to
both causes of action of Plaintiff’s Complaint. Plaintiff opposes. 
 
Discussion 
A.    Legal Standard 
A
motion for judgment on the pleadings has the same function as a general
demurrer but is made after the time for demurrer has expired. Except as
provided by ¿Code of Civil
Procedure section 438¿, the rules
governing demurrers apply. (¿Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp.
(1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999¿.) A motion by a
defendant can be made on the ground that the complaint (or any cause of action
therein) “¿does not state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action against that defendant.¿” (¿Code Civ. Proc., § 438, subd.
(c)(1)(B)(ii)¿.) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 438, subdivision (d), “[t]he grounds for motion provided for in this section
shall appear on the face of the challenged pleading or from any matter of which
the court is required to take judicial notice.”

¿“¿To survive a
demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of
action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the
plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.¿” (¿C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist.
(2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872¿.) For the
purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer
admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (¿Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist.
(1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967¿.) A demurrer “¿does not admit
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.¿” (¿Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d
695, 713¿.)
B.     Allegations of the Complaint 
In the Complaint, Plaintiff alleges, inter
alia,
that the real property which is the subject of this action (the “Subject Property”)
is located at 108 W. Maple St., #12, Glendale, California
91204. (Compl., ¶ 8.) 
“On or about March 24, 1998, Plaintiff’s
husband wanted to purchase the subject property as a home for Plaintiff.
Plaintiff and her husband did not want Plaintiff’s name on the title because
they believed that it would effect [sic] Plaintiff’s benefits.” (Compl., ¶ 7.)
“Plaintiff’s husband and Defendant Masis Tamazyan agreed that the title of the
subject property would be in Defendant Masis Tamazyan’s name. They agreed that
Plaintiff’s husband would pay for the subject property. They also agreed that
Plaintiff was the true owner of the subject property. Defendant Masis Tamazyan
is Plaintiff’s son.” (Compl., ¶ 8.)
Plaintiff further alleges that “[o]n or
about March 24, 1998, Plaintiff’s husband wanted to ensure that Defendant Masis
Tamazyan did not remove Plaintiff from the subject property and transfer the
title. To accomplish this Plaintiff’s husband and Defendant Masis Tamazyan
agreed that Defendant Masis Tamazyan would sign a note and Deed of Trust in the
amount of the purchase price of the subject property and that Plaintiff would
be the beneficiary of the Deed of Trust.” (Compl., ¶ 9.) “On March 24, 1998, Defendant Masis Tahmazian signed a note and Deed of
Trust as described above. The note and Deed of
Trust was given to Plaintiff.” (Compl., ¶10.) “On
March 26, 1998, a Grant Deed was recorded transferring title of the subject
property to Defendant Masis Tamazyan.” (Compl., ¶ 11.) 
“Since the purchase of the subject property to
the present, Plaintiff has resided at the subject property.” (Compl., ¶ 12.) “On
December 21, 2020, Defendant Masis Tahmazian signed an lnterspousal Transfer
Grant Deed giving the subject property to his wife Defendant Elen Tahmasian.
The lnterspousal Transfer Grant Deed was recorded on December 29, 2020…On
information and belief, Plaintiff alleges that Defendant Elen Tahmasian did not
pay value for subject property.” (Compl., ¶ 13.) “Subsequently, Defendant Elen
Tahmasian attempted to evict Plaintiff from the subject property.” (Compl., ¶
14.) “On August 23, 2021, Plaintiff recorded her Deed of Trust…” (Compl., ¶
15.)
C.     First Cause of Action for “Declaratory
Relief Re: Real Property Resulting Trust” 
In the first cause of action for declaratory relief, Plaintiff
alleges, inter alia, that “Plaintiff contends that she owns a 100%
interest in the Subject Property based on a resulting trust. Defendants
disputes [sic] these allegations and allege that Defendant Elen Tahmasian owns
an interest equal to 100%.…Pursuant to Section 1060 of
the California Code of Civil Procedure, Plaintiff seeks a judicial
declaration that Plaintiff is the owner of a 100% interest of the subject
property.” (Compl., ¶¶ 18-19.) 
The Moving Parties assert that the first cause of action fails, as “the
alleged oral agreement to transfer an ownership interest in real property to
Plaintiff is invalid under the Statute of Frauds.” (Mot. at p. 5:4-5.) The
Moving Parties note that pursuant to Civil Code
section 1624, subdivision (a)(3), “[t]he following contracts are invalid,
unless they, or some note or memorandum thereof, are in writing and subscribed
by the party to be charged or by the party’s agent:…(3) An agreement for
the leasing for a longer period than one year, or for the sale of real
property, or of an interest therein; such an agreement, if made by an agent of
the party sought to be charged, is invalid, unless the authority of the agent
is in writing, subscribed by the party sought to be charged.” 
The Moving Parties
assert that here, “Plaintiff alleges only an oral agreement between her husband
and Masis that Plaintiff would be the ‘true owner.’…There are no allegations of
any written agreement signed by Masis transferring ownership to Plaintiff.”
(Mot. at p. 5:7-9.) As set forth above, the Complaint alleges that “Plaintiff’s
husband and Defendant Masis Tamazyan agreed that the title of the subject
property would be in Defendant Masis Tamazyan’s name,” and that “[t]hey also
agreed that Plaintiff was the true owner of the subject property.” (Compl., ¶
8.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiff argues that “[s]ince Plaintiff’s First
Cause of Action is seeking a Resulting Trust, the Statue of Frauds does not
apply.” (Opp’n at p. 4:2-3.) As set forth above, Plaintiff alleges that “she
owns a 100% interest in the Subject Property based on a resulting trust.”
(Compl., ¶ 18.) 
Plaintiff cites to Martin v. Kehl (1983) 145 Cal.App.3d 228, 238,
where the Court of Appeal noted that “[t]he terms constructive trust and
resulting trust have often been confused by attorneys, as well as some courts. Both
are involuntary trusts implied by law and exempt from the statute of frauds.
However, [a] resulting trust arises from a transfer of property under
circumstances showing that the transferee was not intended to take the
beneficial interest…It has been termed an intention-enforcing trust, to
distinguish it from the other type of implied trust,
the constructive or fraud-rectifying trust. The resulting trust
carries out the inferred intent of the parties; the constructive trust defeats
or prevents the wrongful act of one of them.” (Internal quotations, citations,
and emphasis omitted, underline added.) In the reply, the Moving Parties contend
that the cases cited by Plaintiff do not show that “a resulting trust claim is
categorically exempt from the Statute of Frauds.” (Reply at p. 2:24-25.) But
the Moving Parties do not appear to specifically address the Martin case
discussed above. 
In the motion, the Moving Parties also argue that “Plaintiff fails to
allege the elements of a resulting trust…” (Mot. at p. 7:6.) The Moving Parties
cite to Lloyds Bank Cal. v. Wells Fargo Bank (1986) 187 Cal.App.3d 1038, 1042-1043,
where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a] resulting trust arises by operation
of law from a transfer of property under circumstances showing that the
transferee was not intended to take the beneficial interest. Such a resulting
trust carries out and enforces the inferred intent of the
parties. Ordinarily a resulting trust arises in favor of the payor of the
purchase price of the property where the purchase price, or a part thereof, is
paid by one person and the title is taken in the name of another…The trust
arises because it is the natural presumption in such a case that it was their
intention that the ostensible purchaser should acquire and hold the property
for the one with whose means it was acquired.” (Internal quotations and
citations omitted.) 
The Moving Parties assert that here, “[t]he Complaint alleges no facts
showing Masis agreed to hold the property in trust for Plaintiff, rather than
being the true owner himself, or that any trust arose in March 1998 when Masis
took title.” (Mot. at p. 7:9-11.) But as discussed, Plaintiff alleges that “she
owns a 100% interest in the Subject Property based on a resulting trust.”
(Compl., ¶ 18.) In addition, the Moving Parties do not appear to cite any legal
authority demonstrating that Plaintiff must allege that Masis Tamazyan “agreed to hold the property in trust for Plaintiff” in
order to state a cause of action for a resulting trust. (Mot. at p. 7:9-10.) As
discussed, in Lloyds Bank Cal. v. Wells Fargo Bank, supra, 187
Cal.App.3d at page 1042, cited by the Moving Parties, the Court of
Appeal noted that “[a] resulting
trust arises by operation of law from a transfer of property under
circumstances showing that the transferee was not intended to take the
beneficial interest.” As set forth above, Plaintiff alleges that “Plaintiff’s
husband and Defendant Masis Tamazyan agreed that the title of the subject
property would be in Defendant Masis Tamazyan’s name. They agreed that
Plaintiff’s husband would pay for the subject property. They also agreed that
Plaintiff was the true owner of the subject property.” (Compl., ¶ 8.) The
Complaint alleges that “Plaintiff’s husband wanted to purchase the subject
property as a home for Plaintiff.” (Compl., ¶ 7.)   
            Based on
the foregoing, the Court does not find that the Moving Parties have shown that “Plaintiff
fails to allege the elements of a resulting trust…” (Mot. at p. 7:6.) 
            The
Moving Parties also argue that “Plaintiff’s resulting trust claim is barred by
the statute of limitations. The limitations period is three years for fraud or
four years for contract…Here, the alleged resulting trust would have arisen in
March 1998[1],
but Plaintiff did not file suit until November 2021, over 23 years later.” (Mot.
at p. 7:13-15.) The Moving Parties cite to Hobart
v. Hobart Estate Co. (1945) 26
Cal.2d 412, 436, where the California Supreme Court noted that “section 338 of the Code of Civil Procedure…provides a
three-year period of limitations for commencement of: ‘An action for relief on
the ground of fraud or mistake. The cause of action in such case not to be
deemed to have accrued until the discovery, by the aggrieved party, of the facts
constituting the fraud or mistake.’” But Plaintiff’s first cause of action is
for declaratory relief, specifically, “declaratory relief re: real property
resulting trust.” The Moving Parties do not appear to provide any analysis as
to why the limitations period for fraud set forth in Code
of Civil Procedure section 338 would be applicable here.[2]

            In the
opposition, Plaintiff argues that “the statute of limitation does not bar
Plaintiffs’ first cause of action for a resulting trust.” (Opp’n at p.
4:24-25.) Plaintiff cites to Von Zastrow v.
Schiffbauer (1952) 114 Cal.App.2d
500, 502, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[i]n the case of a ‘resulting
trust’ the statute of limitations does not begin to run until there has
been a repudiation of the trust and the adverse claim of the trustee clearly
and unequivocably made known to the cestui que trust…To enforce a
resulting trust the action must be commenced within four years after the
repudiation of the trust.” (Internal citation omitted, emphasis in original.)[3]
Plaintiff asserts that here, “[t]he complaint does not state when or if
Defendants repudiated the resulting trust agreement. Defendants cannot pinpoint
a fact in the complaint showing that the ‘repudiation’ occurred four years
before the filing of this complaint.” (Opp’n at p. 5:3-5.) But this argument
appears to concede that the allegations of the Complaint do not show that the action
was commenced within “four years after the repudiation of the trust.” (Von
Zastrow v. Schiffbauer, supra, 114 Cal.App.2d at p. 502.) Plaintiff does
not point to any allegations demonstrating that the Complaint was filed within
four years of the “repudiation of the trust.” (Ibid.)
Accordingly, the Court grants the Moving Parties’ motion as to the first cause
of action of the Complaint, with leave to amend.[4]

 
D. Second
Cause of Action for “In the Alternative, Declaratory Relief Re: Deed of Trust
Priority
In the second cause of action, Plaintiff alleges, inter alia,
that “[a]n actual, justiciable controversy has arisen between the parties as to
their respective rights and obligations regarding the title of the Subject
Property…Plaintiff contends that Deed of Trust, Exhibit 2, has priority over
the lnterspousal Transfer Grant Deed, Exhibit 4. Defendants disputes these
allegations…Pursuant to Section 1060 of the California
Code of Civil Procedure, Plaintiff seeks a judicial declaration that
Plaintiff’s Deed of Trust, Exhibit 2, has priority over the lnterspousal
Transfer Grant Deed, Exhibit 4.” (Compl., ¶¶ 23-24, 19, p. 5.) 
The Moving Parties argue that the second cause of action fails. First,
the Moving Parties argue that “the deed of trust cannot have priority because
it was not recorded until August 2021, after the December 2020 transfer to
Elen.” (Mot. at p. 8:1-2.)[5] But
the Moving Parties do not cite any legal authority to support this proposition.

The Moving Parties also argue that “Plaintiff’s claim is barred by the
statute of limitations. An action to establish the priority of a deed of trust
has a three-year limitations period for fraud or four years for contract…Plaintiff
is seeking to establish the priority of a deed of trust from March 1998 (Ex. 2)
but did not file suit until November 2021, over 23 years later. The claim is
therefore time-barred.” (Mot. at p. 8:3-6.)[6]
But again, the Moving Parties do not provide any analysis as to why such
limitations periods purportedly apply to Plaintiff’s second cause of action for
declaratory relief “re: deed of trust priority.” 
In the opposition, Plaintiff asserts that “the statute of limitation
does not bar Plaintiff’s second cause of action,” and that “[i]f any statute of
limitations should apply it should be the statute of limitations for a
Resulting Trust.” (Opp’n. at p. 6:1; 6:6-7.) Plaintiff cites to Von Zastrow v. Schiffbauer, supra, 114
Cal.App.2d at page 502, which, as
discussed above, provides that “[i]n the case of a ‘resulting trust’ the
statute of limitations does not begin to run until there has been a repudiation
of the trust and the adverse claim of the trustee clearly and unequivocably
made known to the cestui que trust…To enforce a resulting trust the
action must be commenced within four years after the repudiation of the trust.”
(Internal citation omitted, emphasis in original.) However, as noted by
the Moving Parties, Plaintiff does not appear to cite any authority for the
proposition that such four-year limitations period for resulting trusts should
apply to the second cause of action for “declaratory relief re: deed of trust
priority.” In any event, the Court does not find that the Moving Parties have
shown that this cause of action is barred by any applicable statute of
limitations period. 
The Moving Parties also argue that “Plaintiff’s allegation that the
March 1998 deed of trust establishes her ownership of the subject property is
incorrect as a matter of law.” (Mot. at p. 
8:7-8.) But as noted by Plaintiff, the “second cause of action does not
allege that the deed of trust establishes her ownership of the property.”
(Opp’n at p. 6:15-16.) The second cause of action alleges, inter alia,
that “Plaintiff contends that Deed of Trust, Exhibit 2, has priority over the
lnterspousal Transfer Grant Deed, Exhibit 4. Defendants disputes these
allegations.” (Compl., ¶ 24.) The Moving Parties do not appear to cite to any
allegations of the Complaint stating that the alleged deed of trust establishes
Plaintiff’s ownership of the subject property. 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not find that the Moving
Parties have shown that the second cause of action fails. Thus, the court
denies the Moving Parties’ motion as to the second cause of action of the
Complaint. 
Conclusion
Based on the
foregoing, the Court grants the Moving Parties’ motion as to the first cause of
action of the Complaint, with leave to amend. The Court denies the Moving
Parties’ motion as to the second cause of action of the Complaint. 
The Court orders Plaintiff to file and serve
an amended complaint, if any, within 20 days of the date of this
order.  
The Moving Parties
are ordered to give notice of this order.¿ 
 
 
DATED:  November 15, 2024                  ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 
 


