  Case Number:  20CHCV00648    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date:  12/3/24                                                            
TRIAL DATE: 2/18/25
Case #20CHCV00648
 
DEMURRER TO THE
ORIGINAL CROSS-COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer filed on 4/22/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Cross-Defendants Alex Alvarado and Patricia
Alvarado
RESPONDING PARTY: Cross-Complainants Michael Meadows and
Althea Meadows
NOTICE: ok
 
Demurrer is to the entire Cross-Complaint:
            1.  Breach of
Ridgeview Saugus Homeowners’ Association’s Governing Documents
            2. 
Nuisance
            3. 
Invasion of Privacy
            4. 
Negligence
            5. 
Premises Liability
            6. 
Trespass
            7. 
Assault
            8. 
Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 

RULING: The demurrer is overruled.  Answer is due within 20 days. 
 
This action arises out of a dispute between neighbors,
Plaintiffs Alex Alvarado and Patricia Alvarado (the Alvarados) and Defendants
Michael Meadows and Althea Meadows (the Meadows).  
 
The Alvarados’ operative First Amended Complaint alleges a
total of 22 causes of action, some against the Meadows and some against
Ridgeview Saugus Homeowners Association (HOA). 
On 2/15/24, the Meadows filed their answer to the First Amended
Complaint and a cross-complaint against the Alvarados alleging causes of action
for: (1) Breach of Ridgeview Saugus Homeowners’ Association’s Governing
Documents; (2) Nuisance; (3) Invasion of Privacy; (4) Negligence; (5) Premises
Liability; (6) Trespass; (7) Assault and (8) Intentional Infliction of
Emotional Distress.  
 
After meet and confer efforts failed to resolve the issues
the Alvarados had with the cross-complaint, on 4/22/24, the Alvarados filed and
served the instant demurrer to the entire cross-complaint.  The demurrer was originally scheduled for
hearing on 6/14/24.  On 5/29/24, the
Alvarados rescheduled the hearing to 12/3/24. 
On 11/13/24, the Meadows filed and served an opposition to the
demurrer.  The Alvarados have not filed a
reply to the opposition to the demurrer. 

 
ANALYSIS
 
CCP 430.10 provides: 
“The party against whom a complaint
or cross-complaint has been filed may object, by demurrer or answer as provided
in Section
430.30, to the pleading on any one or more of the following grounds:
(a) The court has no jurisdiction
of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.
(b) The person who filed the
pleading does not have the legal capacity to sue.
(c) There is another action pending
between the same parties on the same cause of action.
(d) There is a defect or misjoinder
of parties.
(e) The pleading does not state
facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
(f) The pleading is uncertain. As
used in this subdivision, “uncertain” includes ambiguous and unintelligible.
(g) In an action founded upon a
contract, it cannot be ascertained from the pleading whether the contract is
written, is oral, or is implied by conduct.
(h) No certificate was filed as
required by Section
411.35.”
 
The Alvarados’ demurrer to the entire cross-complaint is
based “on the grounds that the Meadows failed to file a Motion for Leave to
File Cross-Complaint, as required by California Code Civil Procedure §
428.50, subd. (a) and (c).”  (See
Demurrer, p.3:12-15).  Pursuant to CCP
430.10, as set forth above, failure to obtain leave of court to file a
cross-complaint is not a ground for demurrer.   
 
The proper procedure for challenging the filing of a
cross-complaint without leave of court would be a motion to strike on the
ground that the pleading was not filed in conformity with the laws of this
state.  See CCP 435(b)(1); CCP 436(b).  While the Alvarados have filed a motion to
strike the cross-complaint on such grounds, such motion was  filed on 4/18/24 (4 days before the demurrer
was filed), was originally scheduled for hearing on 6/7/24 (7 days before the
demurrer was originally scheduled for hearing) and was rescheduled by the
Alvarados on 5/29/24 to be heard on 12/4/24, the day after the current hearing
on this demurrer.  
 
CRC 3.1322(b) provides that “[a] notice
of motion to strike must be given within the time allowed to plead, and if a
demurrer is interposed, concurrently therewith, and must be noticed for hearing
and heard at the same time as the demurrer.” (emphasis added).  The Alvarados provide no explanation for
their failure to comply with the foregoing rule.
 
Even if failure
to obtain leave of court to file the cross-complaint was a proper ground for
demurrer, the Court finds the Alvarados’ argument to be without merit.  When the Alvarados filed their First Amended
Complaint, it superseded the original complaint.  See State Compensation Insurance
Fund (Onvoi Business Solutions, Inc.) (2010) 184 CA4th 1124,
1130-1131.  As such, when the Meadows
answered the First Amended Complaint, the Court finds that they were also
entitled to file and serve a cross-complaint against the Meadows at that
time.  See CCP 428.10(a); CCP 428.50(a).  The Alvarados will suffer no more prejudice
than the Meadows who had to answer the new claims in the First Amended
Complaint which was filed more than three years after the filing of the
original complaint.  Further, the
Alvarados rescheduled the hearing on the demurrer approximately six months
after it was originally scheduled for hearing when they could have used that
time to conduct any additional discovery needed to defend against the
cross-claims. 

 
Based on the foregoing, the Alvarados demurrer to the
entire cross-complaint is overruled.   
 
The Alvarados also demur to the 1st cause of
action in the cross-complaint for Breach of Ridgeview Saugus Homeowners’
Association’s Governing Documents under CCP 430.10(e) and (f) on the grounds
that it fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action and it
is uncertain. 
 
The opposition to the demurrer argues that the Alvarados’
contention that the Meadows lack standing to enforce the HOA’s governing
documents against the Alvarados contradicts Alex Alvarado’s position on his
appeal of the HOA’s judgment and the language of the CC&Rs.  (See Opposition, p.5:13-p.6:24).  While it appears that there is truth to these
arguments, they cannot be considered on demurrer as they on evidence outside
the pleading and of which the Meadows have not requested that the Court take
judicial notice.
 
Even without such opposition arguments, the Alvarados
have failed to establish that the Meadows’ 1st cause of action fails
as a matter of law.      
 
First and foremost, despite the fact that the Alvarados’
First Amended Complaint alleges eight causes of action against the Meadows for
breach of the HOA’s governing documents, the Alvarados surprisingly argue that
the Meadows lack standing to enforce those same governing documents against
them.  (See First Amended
Complaint, 1st, 3rd, 5th, 7th, 9th,
11th, 13th and 15th causes of action).
 
Additionally, the Davis-Stirling Act supports the
Meadows’ standing to pursue their first cause of action. 
 
Civil Code 5975 provides, in relevant part: 
 
“(a) The covenants and restrictions
in the declaration shall be enforceable equitable servitudes, unless
unreasonable, and shall inure to the benefit of and bind all owners of separate
interests in the development. Unless the declaration states otherwise, these
servitudes may be enforced by any owner of a separate interest or by the
association, or by both.
(b) A governing document other than
the declaration may be enforced by the association against an owner of a
separate interest or by an owner of a separate interest against the
association.”
 
(emphasis added)
 
The Alvarados have not shown that the declaration states
that the servitudes may not be enforced by an owner.  As noted above, the Alvarados’ assertion of
multiple causes of action against the Meadows for violations of the same
governing documents in their First Amended Complaint indicates that such a
statement does not exist.  Additionally,
the breaches of the governing documents claimed by the Meadows in their
cross-complaint are similar to those made by the Alvarados in their First
Amended Complaint.  (See First
Amended Complaint (FAC), 1st cause of action – Breach of Governing
Documents Re: Pool Cleaning Business and Cross-Complaint;  
 FAC - 3rd
cause of action – Breach of Governing Documents Re: Dog; FAC – 7th
cause of action – Breach of Governing Documents Re: Trash; Cross-Complaint ¶¶55-56,
59).
 
As such, the Alvarados have failed to establish that the
Meadows cannot assert their 1st cause of action as a matter of
law.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
The demurrer is overruled.  Answer is due within 20 days.