 Case Number:  24CHCV03015    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 12/3/24
Case #24CHCV03015
 
MOTION FOR
TRANSFER OF VENUE
 
Motion filed on 10/15/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Armando Lucatero and Yolanda
Lucatero
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff John Ilias
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
pursuant to CCP 395 and 397 to transfer venue of this action to the Superior
Court of California for the County of Stanislaus for further proceedings and
trial.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of a motor vehicle accident that
occurred on 6/9/23 on SR-165 60 feet south of August Ave in Hilmar, California
which is in Merced County.  (Complaint,
p.4, ¶MV-1; Gillespie Decl. ¶2, Ex.A).  The complaint alleges that this court is the
proper court because Plaintiff John Ilias (Plaintiff) resides in its
jurisdictional area.  (Complaint,
p.2,¶8.d.).  Defendants Armando and
Yolanda Lucatero (Defendants) reside in Turlock, California which is in
Stanislaus County.  (Gillespie Decl. ¶¶4-5,
11, Ex.D – Armando Lucatero Decl.).  
 
On 9/23/24, 10/2/24 and 10/3/24, Defendants’ counsel
requested that Plaintiff stipulate to transferring this matter; however, no
response was received.  (Gillespie Decl.
¶¶8-9, Ex.C).  On 10/15/24, Defendants
filed and  served this motion which seeks
an order pursuant to CCP 395 and 397 to transfer venue of this action to the
Superior Court of California for the County of Stanislaus for further
proceedings and trial.  Plaintiff has not
opposed or otherwise responded to this motion. 

 
ANALYSIS
 
CCP 395(a) provides: 
 
“Except as otherwise provided by
law and subject to the power of the court to transfer actions or proceedings as
provided in this title, the superior court in the county where the Defendant or
some of them reside at the commencement of the action is the proper court for
the trial of the action. If the action is for injury to person or personal
property or for the death from wrongful act or negligence, the superior court
in either the county where the injury occurs or the injury causing death occurs
or the county where the Defendant, or some of them reside at the commencement
of the action, is a proper court for the trial of the action.”
 
On motion of a party, the court may transfer venue of an
action when the court designated in the complaint is into the proper court to
adjudicate the matter or where the convenience of witnesses would be promoted.  See CCP 397(a), (c); CCP 396b(a),
(d).  As noted above, at all relevant
times, Defendants have resided in Stanislaus County.  (Gillespie Decl., Ex.D).  Plaintiff has presented no reason or argument
as to why this action should remain in this Court in Los Angeles County.
 
Plaintiff is also ordered to pay all fees associated with
the transfer before the matter is transferred to Stanislaus County.  This action was commenced in this court which
is clearly not the proper court based on the facts of this case.  See CCP 399(a).  The Court also finds that Defendants are
entitled to recover their reasonable expenses and attorney’s fees incurred in
making this motion in the amount of $780.00, if counsel appears at the hearing,
or $580.00 if no appearance on the motion is made.  See CCP 396b(b); (Gillespie Decl. ¶12).  As noted above, Defendants’ counsel attempted
to resolve the issue informally by obtaining a stipulation to transfer;
however, such efforts were ignored by Plaintiff’s counsel.  (See Gillespie Decl., Ex.C).  Such fees and costs are payable within 30
days. 
 
CONCLUSION   
 
The motion is granted. 
