 Case Number:  24CHCV01653    Hearing Date:   December 3, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 12/3/24
Case #24CHCV01653
 
MOTION TO APPOINT
A NEUTRAL ARBITRATOR
 
Motion filed on 11/6/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff Laura Samarneh
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant Second
Motor Group of Valencia, LLC dba Mercedes-Benz of Valencia
NOTICE: ok
 
RELIEF REQUESTED: An order
appointing a neutral arbitrator.  

 
RULING: The motion is denied.  
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
On 5/1/24, Plaintiff Laura Samarneh (Plaintiff) filed
this action against Defendant Second Motor Group of Valencia, LLC dba
Mercedes-Benz of Valencia (Defendant) and Does 1-10 alleging one cause of
action for Violation of Song-Beverly Act – Breach of Implied Warranty.  On 6/3/24, Defendant answer the complaint.
 
On 8/28/24, the Court granted Defendant’s unopposed
motion to compel arbitration.  (See
8/28/24 Minute Order).  On 8/29/24,
Plaintiff demanded the initiation of arbitration and requested the arbitration
be handled by either JAMS, ADR Service, Inc. or Judicate West.  (Murray Decl., Ex.B).  In response, Defendant indicated that it
would agree to arbitrate through the American Arbitration Association (AAA),
and later agreed, to arbitrate via JAMS Streamlined Rules &
Procedures.  Neither of these options was
agreeable to Plaintiff.  (Murray Decl.,
Ex.C).  
 
Therefore, on 11/6/24, Plaintiff filed and served the
instant motion seeking an order appointing a neutral arbitrator.  Defendant has opposed the motion.   
 
ANALYSIS
 
Both California and Federal law require the enforcement
of arbitrator selection clauses.  See
CCP 1281.6 [“If the arbitration agreement provides a method of appointing an
arbitrator, that method shall be followed.”]; 9 U.S.C.§5 [“If in the agreement
provision be made for a method of naming or appointing an arbitrator…such
method shall be followed.”]  
 
The motion is based on the false premise that “the
arbitration agreement does not specify an arbitration forum.”  (See Motion, p.1:13, p.2:16).  The arbitration provision in the lease
provides “[w]hoever first demands arbitration may choose to proceed under the
applicable rules of and be administered by the National Center
for Dispute Settlement (www.ncdsusa.org)
or any other organization that you may choose subject to our approval.”
(emphasis added) (See Murray Decl., Ex.A, p.4). 
 
As such, the parties must use the National Center for
Dispute Resolution (NCDS) or another organization upon which they agree to
conduct the arbitration.  Plaintiff
provides no explanation as to why NCDS cannot be used for the arbitration of
this matter as set forth in the agreement. 
Plaintiff also fails to provide authority which would allow the Court to
order arbitration by one of the organizations requested by Plaintiff of which
Defendant has not approved in the face of the clear language in the agreement
which requires Defendant’s approval, if NCDS is not used.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
The motion is denied. 

 
 
  
  