  Case Number:  23AHCV02695    Hearing Date:   July 1, 2024    Dept:  X    Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Joel L. Lofton,
Department X
 
 
HEARING DATE:     July
1, 2024                                         TRIAL DATE: No date set. 
                                                           
CASE:                         JORGE LEDESMA, an
individual, et al. v. NISSAN NORTH AMERICA, INC. a public entity; and DOES 1
through 10, inclusive.  
 
CASE NO.:                 23AHCV02695
 
 
 
Motion
to Compel Deposition of Defendant Nissan North America, Inc.’s PMK

 
MOVING PARTY:               Plaintiffs Jorge Ledesma and
Michelle Cardenas 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      No
response or opposition filed. 
 
SERVICE:                              Filed April 2, 2024 
 
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Defendant’s Nissan’s PMK for
Deposition and Request for Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED and Plaintiffs
are awarded monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $2,250.00.
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             This is a Lemon Law Case arising out of Plaintiffs’
Jorge Ledesma (“Ledesma”) and Michelle Cardena’s (“Cardena”) (collectively
“Plaintiffs”) Complaint filed on November 2023 for Restitution and Damages
concerning an allegedly defective 2023 Nissan Kicks (“Vehicle”) Plaintiffs purchased
from Defendant Nissan. 
 
            On April 2, 2024, Plaintiffs filed
the instant motion, along with a Proposed Order, a Separate Statement, and the
Declaration of Scott A. Sanchez, one of Plaintiffs’ attorneys of record. 
 
            Defendant Nissan did not file an
Opposition. 
 
            On June 25, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
Notice of Defendant Nissan’s Non-Opposition to the instant motion. 
 
            Accordingly, there is no Reply.
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Motion to Compel Deposition
 
Plaintiffs seek to compel the deposition of Defendant Nissan’s PMK.
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).)  
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with
both of the following: 
 
1.    
The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the production for inspection of any document, electronically
stored information, or tangible thing described in the deposition notice. 
 
2.    
The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the
deposition and produce the documents, electronically stored information, or
things described in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the
petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
A “motion [to compel compliance with a deposition notice or
subpoena] shall be made no later than 60 days after the completion of the
record of the deposition ….”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (b).) 
 
            Meet and Confer Efforts
 
On December 19, 2023, Plaintiffs
served their Notice of Deposition for Defendant Nissan’s PMQ. (Sanchez Decl., ¶
5, Ex. A.) Then, on January 9, Plaintiffs sent Defendant Nissan a meet and
confer correspondence regarding the upcoming deposition, as Plaintiffs had not
yet received any objection or communication from Nissan. (Id. at ¶ 6,
Ex. B.) Nissan subsequently replied and indicated to Plaintiffs that it would
not be available for the deposition and it had not received the deposition
notice. (Id.) Thus, on January 10, 2024, Plaintiffs sent Nissan a
courtesy copy of the deposition notice and highlighted that the notice had been
properly served. (Id. at ¶ 7, Ex. C.)
On January 12, 2024 Plaintiffs served their First Amended Notice. (Id. at ¶ 8,
Ex. D.) On January 30, 2024, Nissan served objections to Plaintiffs’ First
Amended Notice. (Id. at ¶ 9, Ex. E.) On January 30, 2024 Plaintiffs
called Nissan again to meet and confer. (Id. at ¶ 10.) Unable to reach
Nissan, Plaintiffs left a voicemail and sent a follow up correspondence
reminding Nissan of their request to meet and confer to coordinate the PMK
deposition. (Id.) As a compromise, Plaintiffs agreed to withdraw the
contested category of other similar buybacks and document requests. (Id.)
Plaintiffs also suggested a protective order to cover Nissan’s production of
its lemon law policy and procedure manuals. (Id., Ex. F.) However,
Nissan did not reply. (Id.)
Accordingly,
on February 2, 2024, Plaintiffs served their Second Amended Notice which no longer contained the contested category and
document request regarding Nissan’s lemon law buybacks of other similar
vehicles. (Id. at ¶ 11, Ex. G.) On February 22, 2024, Nissan served
another set of objection-only responses which were identical to their first
objection-only responses. (Id. at ¶ 12, Ex. H.)
On
March 1, 2024, Plaintiffs again called Nissan to meet and confer. Unable to
reach Nissan and receiving no option to leave a voicemail, Plaintiffs sent
another written meet and confer correspondence, reminding Nissan of their
efforts to coordinate the deposition. (Id. at ¶ 13, Ex. I.) Plaintiffs
also reiterated to Nissan of their concession in withdrawing a contested
category and document request, as well as suggesting a protective order for the
second time. (Id.) Nissan did not reply. (Id.)
Plaintiffs
declare that rather than addressing the relevant issues and providing dates of
availability for the deposition, Nissan is remaining silent and now ignoring
Plaintiffs’ meet and confer efforts. (Id. at ¶17.) Plaintiffs’ Counsel,
Sanchez, states Plaintiffs’ and Defendant’s counsel frequently oppose each
other on other Nissan matters and Nissan has consistently maintained this
pattern of being unresponsive and unwilling to produce a witness in response to
deposition notices. (Id. at ¶¶ 14-18.)
Counsel
Sanchez maintains that as of the date of the filing of the instant motion,
Nissan still has not responded to Plaintiffs’ latest meet and confer efforts,
nor proposed any potential dates for deposition. 
For
the foregoing reasons, the Court finds Plaintiffs’ counsel have satisfied their
meet and confer efforts.
Good Cause
 
Plaintiffs argue good cause exists to justify the production for
inspection of documents described in the deposition notice, as well as compel
the deposition of Nissan’s PMK because Plaintiffs’ seven categories of
testimony and ten document requests go to the essential elements of Plaintiffs’
express and implied warranty and damage claims. (Motion to Compel (“Mot.”), pg.
9.)
Thus,
the following categories are essential elements of Plaintiffs’ claims: (1) why
Nissan did not repurchase the vehicle pursuant to the lemon law pre-suit; (2)
questions about the service, repair and communication history related to the
vehicle and Plaintiffs; (3) questions relating to Nissan’s investigation of the
service history; and (4) questions about the warranty nonconformities of which
Plaintiffs complain. The document requests seek: (1) documents evidencing
repairs to the vehicle; (2) photographs or videos Nissan may have of
the vehicle; (3) communications not involving attorneys about the vehicle
or Plaintiffs; (4) Nissan’s  customer service file; (5) the recalls and
technical bulletins that apply to Plaintiffs’ vehicle; (6) Nissan’s and its
dealers’/customer service representatives’ lemon law policies and procedures;
and (7) copies of the documents Nissan relied on when it chose not to
repurchase the vehicle pre-litigation. (Id. at pgs. 9-10.)
Plaintiffs contend that these categories are straightforward, relevant to the
claims in the case, are not overbroad in scope, and are not privileged or
otherwise protected. (Id.) Moreover, this information is
universally discoverable in lemon law cases. (Id.)
The
Court finds Plaintiffs categories of testimony and document requests
demonstrate good cause to support the deposition notice of Nissan’s PMK, as
well the document requests. Plaintiffs’ action against Nissan is grounded in
the express and implied warranties provided by lemon law. As such, discovery
pertaining to Nissan’s service and repair history, warranty nonconformities,
prior recalls, and lemon law policies and procedures are highly relevant. 
Thus,
Plaintiffs’ Motion to Compel Nissan’s PMK for deposition is GRANTED. 
Sanctions
The Code of Civil Procedure
section 2025.450(g)(1) provides in relevant part that if the motion is
granted,   
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under [Section
2023.010] in favor of the party who noticed the deposition and against the
deponent or the party with whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court
finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification
or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., §
2025.450.(g)(1).) 
 
Counsel Sanchez declares he has spent at least five hours preparing
the instant Motion and related documents and meeting and conferring about this
issue. (Sanchez Decl., ¶ 20.) Additionally, Sanchez anticipated spending at
least two more hours reviewing Nissan’s Opposition, preparing Plaintiff’s Reply
brief, and appearing at the hearing for a total of seven hours. (Id.)
Sanchez’s hourly fee is $375.00 per hour. Thus, Plaintiffs request that the
Court order sanctions in the amount of $2,625.00 against Defendant Nissan North
America, Inc. 
 
In this case, the Court finds Defendant Nissan has not demonstrated
any substantial justification or circumstance that would deem the imposition of
sanctions unjust. The Court has read Nissan’s objections and finds Nissan has
been non-compliant and uncooperative with Plaintiffs’ meet and confer efforts
and request to take the PMK’s deposition. The Court finds Nissan is obstructing
the discovery process and that sanctions for the instant motion are, therefore,
appropriate. Sanchez’s rate of $375 per hour is reasonable, as are the five
hours billed for preparing the instant motion and engaging in the meet and
confer efforts. However, Defendants did not file an opposition, and thus, Sanchez
did not review one or draft a reply. As such, the Court will deduct one hour
from Plaintiffs’ estimation of hours. 
 
Thus, the Court awards $2,250 in sanctions against Defendant
Nissan. 
 
CONCLUSION
 
            Plaintiffs’
Motion to Compel Defendant’s Nissan’s PMK for Deposition and Request for
Monetary Sanctions is GRANTED and Plaintiffs are awarded monetary
sanctions in the reduced amount of $2,250.00. 
 
 
Plaintiffs to give notice. 
 
 
            
Dated:   November 9,
2023                                        ___________________________________
                                                                                    Joel
L. Lofton
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court