 Case Number:  23STCV15571    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  73 5/07/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
JANET DIXON v. THE PEOPLE CONCERN (23STCV15571) 
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/moving party:  Janet Dixon (Pro Per) 
Counsel for
Defendant/opposing party:  Norman Ayotte (Jones & Ayotte) 
 
MOTION FOR PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION (filed 4/05/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for
Preliminary Injunction is DENIED.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On July 5, 2023,
Plaintiff Janet Dixon filed the instant action against Defendant The People
Concern. 
 
The Complaint
alleges the following. Plaintiff is currently a resident of Defendant The People
Concern, which is a temporary housing shelter. (Compl., p.
1.) Plaintiff informed Defendant’s staff that she does
not eat meat, such as beef, chicken or turkey. (Ibid.) On April 27,
2023, a member of Defendant’s staff served Plaintiff dinner that contained
chicken. (Compl., pp. 1-2.) The staff told
Plaintiff the chicken was vegan. (Compl., p. 2.) However, Plaintiff alleges the chicken was not vegan and
that after eating the food, she became very ill. (Ibid.) Plaintiff
alleges she was ill 3 days following the incident and it took her a day and a
half to recover. (Ibid.) She alleges that she reported the issue to
Defendant’s staff, but they still continue to serve her meat. (Ibid.)
 
On April 3,
2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File a Proposed
Complaint. The Court ordered Plaintiff to file a stand-alone amended complaint
by April 12, 2024. 
 
On
April 5, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Motion for Preliminary Injunction, arguing:
·       Plaintiff is seeking an order from the Court for Defendant to
relocate Plaintiff to a hotel while Plaintiff attempts to find permanent housing.

·       Plaintiff is likely to succeed on the merits of her claim.
o   The Defendant
is in violation of the Plaintiff’s Fifth and Fourteenth Amendment right(s) under
the Due Process Clause to be kept free from harm, as the Defendant continues to
serve the Plaintiff a known harmful substance.
§  Defendant
uses deception to make the Plaintiff believe that the food she is being served
is safe to eat and continues to place the Plaintiff’s health at risk, with the
two most recent incidents transpiring on March 10th and March 19th, 2024. 
o   Plaintiff also asserts that Defendant is violating her Eighth
Amendment right because she was unfairly placed on a Progress Agreement on
September 13, 2023 for recording a staff member. A Progress Amendment could
lead to Plaintiff being terminated from the facility.
§  Plaintiff was unfairly placed on another Progress Amendment on
February 8, 2024, for violating the facility’s rules by eating in the laundry
room and for allegedly failing to actively participate in weekly meetings with
case managers.
§  Plaintiff argues that placing her on the Progress Amendment constitutes
cruel and unusual punishment.
·       Plaintiff is
likely to suffer irreparable harm in the absence of the relief requested
o   Defendant
continues to serve the Plaintiff a known harmful substance, despite the reports
made by the Plaintiff.
·       Plaintiff’s
request for relief
o   Plaintiff
requests for the Defendant to move the Plaintiff into the Santa Monica Proper
Hotel (located at 700 Wilshire Blvd, Santa Monica, CA 90401) until Plaintiff is
successfully housed.
o   The hotel
also has restaurants that accommodate the Plaintiff’s special dietary needs, as
the Defendant provided the Plaintiff three meals and two evening snacks daily,
as can be seen in Exhibit E. Dixon Declaration ¶ 24
o   To substitute
the mental health services provided by the Defendant, Plaintiff requests to
receive two 60-minute massage sessions weekly at the hotel spa to replace the
weekly meetings held with her case manager(s) and the clinician on-site. Dixon
Declaration ¶ 25.
o   Plaintiff
requests a monthly stipend of $5,000 to provide for services including laundry,
transportation, and other resources.
 
On
April 30, 2024, Plaintiff filed a reply, arguing:
·      
Defendant
failed to file an opposition to Plaintiffs’ motion, therefore, pursuant to
California Rules of Court, Rule 8.45(c) the failure to file an opposition may
be deemed consent to the granting of a motion.
 
On
May 1, 2024, Defendant failed a late opposition, arguing:
·      
An opposition
is unnecessary as Plaintiff’s motion is frivolous and fails to satisfy the
requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 525. Plaintiff also fails to
demonstrate that an adequate remedy is unavailable. 
·       Plaintiff’s
motion contains new allegations that are not contained in the Complaint, which only
alleges she was served meat contrary to her dietary needs.
 
II.DISCUSSION
 
A.     Legal
Standard for Preliminary Injunction
 
The
function of a preliminary injunction is the preservation of the status quo
until a final determination of the merits.” (Beehan v. Lido Isle Cmty. Ass’n
(1977) 70 Cal.App.3d 858, 866.) “Trial courts traditionally consider and weigh
two factors in determining whether to issue a preliminary injunction. They are
(1) how likely it is that the moving party will prevail on the merits, and (2)
the relative harm the parties will suffer in the interim due to the issuance or
nonissuance of the injunction.” (Dodge, Warren & Peters Ins. Servs.,
Inc. v. Riley (2003) 105 Cal.App.4th 1414, 1420.) “The greater the showing
on one, the less must be shown on the other to support an injunction.” (Ibid.,
quoting Butt v. State of California (1992) 4 Cal.4th 668, 678, brackets
and ellipses omitted.) The burden of proof is on the plaintiff as the moving
party “to show all elements necessary to support issuance of a preliminary
injunction.” (O’Connell v. Superior Court (2006) 141 Cal.App.4th 1452,
1481.)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
Preliminary
injunctive relief requires the use of competent evidence to create a sufficient
factual showing on the grounds for relief. (See, e.g., Ancora-Citronelle
Corp. v. Green (1974) 41 Cal.App.3d 146, 150 [injunction erroneously
granted without verified complaint, affidavits, or declarations to support
injunctive relief].) Injunctive relief may be granted based upon a verified
complaint only if it contains sufficient evidentiary, as opposed to ultimate,
facts. (Code Civ. Proc., § 527, subd. (a).) A plaintiff seeking injunctive
relief must also show the absence of an adequate damages remedy at law. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 526, subd. (a)(4).)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
A
preliminary injunction may be classified as either a prohibitory injunction,
which requires parties “to refrain from a particular act,” or a mandatory
injunction, which requires parties to perform “an affirmative act that changes
the position of the parties.” (Davenport v. Blue Cross of California (1997)
52 Cal.App.4th 435, 446.) Mandatory preliminary injunctions are rarely granted.
(Teachers Insurance & Annuity Association v. Furlotti (1999) 70
Cal.App.4th 1487, 1493.) More specifically, “[t]he granting of a mandatory
injunction pending trial is not permitted except in extreme cases where the
right thereto is clearly established.” (Ibid.)¿¿ 
 
A
preliminary injunction may be granted upon affidavits where the complaint or
affidavits establish sufficient grounds. (Code Civ. Proc. §¿527(a).) The burden
is on the moving party to show all elements necessary to support issuance of a
preliminary injunction.¿ (O'Connell v. Superior Court¿(2006) 141
Cal.App.4th 1452, 1481.)¿ 
¿ 
“In
deciding whether to issue a preliminary injunction, a trial court weighs two
interrelated factors: the likelihood the moving party ultimately will prevail
on the merits, and the relative interim harm to the parties from the issuance
or nonissuance of the injunction.” (Hunt v. Superior Court¿(1999) 21
Cal.4th 984, 999.) “The trial court's determination must be guided by a ‘mix’
of the potential-merit and interim-harm factors; the greater the plaintiff's
showing on one, the less must be shown on the other to support an injunction.”
(Butt v. State of California¿(1992) 4 Cal.4th 668, 678.) 
 
B.    
Timeliness of Defendant’s Opposition
 
As an initial matter, the Court notes that Defendant failed to
timely file their opposition.
 
Opposition papers are required to be filed and served at
least nine court days prior to the hearing under California Code of Civil
Procedure (“CCP”) section 1005, subdivision (b). 
 
Here, Defendant’s opposition was due by April 24, 2024. However,
Defendant did not file and serve its opposition until May 1, 2024. As a result
of the untimely filing, Plaintiff was unable to file a Reply responding to the
arguments raised in Defendant’s opposition.  
 
Thus, the Court, in its discretion, declines to consider arguments
raised in Defendant’s late filed opposition.
 
C.    
Preliminary Injunction to Relocate Plaintiff
 
Plaintiff seeks a preliminary injunction requiring
Defendant to (1) relocate her to a hotel; (2) to cover the costs associated
with her relocation; (3) to provide her three meals and two snacks daily; (4) to
provide her weekly massage sessions; and (5) a $5,000 monthly stipend for other
costs. 
 
Plaintiff’s original Complaint that she filed on July
5, 2023, is the operative Complaint in this matter. The Court notes that on April 3,
2024, Plaintiff’s Motion for Leave to File a Proposed Complaint was granted.
(Court’s 04/03/24 Minute Order.) The Court ordered Plaintiff to file a
stand-alone amended complaint by April 12, 2024. (Ibid.) Since Plaintiff
did not file an Amended Complaint by April 12, 2024, the original Complaint is
the operative Complaint upon which the Court assesses the merits of the instant
motion. The Court notes that while Plaintiff’s motion contains allegations
involving being placed on Progress Amendments, these allegations were not pled
in the Complaint and are thus not considered on this motion. 
 
First, the Court does not find that Plaintiff has
demonstrated a likelihood of prevailing on the merits on any causes of action. The Complaint
alleges that Defendant has served Plaintiff meals containing meat, despite her
dietary needs. However, the Complaint fails to plead any causes of action. The complaint
must plead a cause of action in order to support injunctive relief. (CCP
§526(a)(1)-(2); Korean American Legal Advocacy Foundation v. City of Los
Angeles, (1994) 23 Cal.App.4th 376, 398-99.) Injunctive relief is a remedy,
and does not by itself constitute a cause of action.  (MaJor v.
Miraverde Homeowners Assn., (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 618, 623.) Since the
Complaint fails to state a cause of action which might support a preliminary
injunction, the Court does not find Plaintiff has demonstrated she is entitled
to injunctive relief. 
 
Further, the Court does not find that Plaintiff’s
motion has demonstrated the inadequacy of a legal remedy. The concept of
"inadequacy of the legal remedy" or "inadequacy of damages"
dates from the time of the early courts of chancery, the idea being that an
injunction is an unusual or extraordinary equitable remedy that will not be
granted if the remedy at law (usually damages) will adequately compensate the
injured plaintiff. (Dep't of Fish & Game v. Anderson-Cottonwood Irrigation Dist. (1992) 8
Cal. App. 4th 1554, 1565.) Money damages are not adequate in
cases involving real property, unique personal property, goodwill of a
business, or an individual’s reputation. (Id. at 1564.) An
injunction also is more likely where damages are precluded by statute. (Ibid.)
According to the Complaint, Plaintiff seeks monetary damages in the amount of $
1.7 million dollars as a result of the April 27, 2023 incident and other
incidents where Defendant served Plaintiff meat despite her dietary needs.
(Compl., p. 2.) Yet, Plaintiff fails to show that money damages would not be
adequate as her allegations do not involve real property, unique personal
property, the preclusion of damages by a statute, etc. Given that damages
likely provide an adequate remedy, injunctive relief is not appropriate. 
 
Thus, the Court does not find Plaintiff is
entitled to the requested relief and the Court denies Plaintiff’s motion for preliminary injunction.
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
Plaintiff’s Motion for
Preliminary Injunction DENIED.