 Case Number:  24STCV03154    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  73 05/07/24
Dept. 73
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
IGNACIO, et al. v. PARGA (24STCV03154)
 
Counsel for
Plaintiffs/opposing party: Justo
Ignacio Guadarrama Flores and Mercedes Avelia Alavez Palacios (Pro
Per)
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party:  N. Micheli
Quadros (Quadros Law Office APC)
 
demurrer to complaint (filed on 4/02/24)
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer as to each of Plaintiffs’ causes
of action with 20 days leave to amend.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On
February 7, 2024, Plaintiffs Justo Ignacio Guadarrama Flores and Mercedes Avelia
Alavez Palacios filed their Complaint against Defendant Oralia Parga alleging
the following causes of action: 
 
C/A
1: Damages Cause
C/A
2: Breach of Contract
C/A
3: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
The Complaint alleges the following. Plaintiffs are tenants
and entered into a contract on June 1, 2016 to rent the subject apartment unit
from Defendant, the owner. Defendant told Plaintiffs they must leave the
premises by February 1, 2024 because the premises are not safe. (Complaint, p.
2.) Plaintiffs allege that Defendant’s breach of their rental agreement has
caused them emotional distress and damages. (Ibid.) 
 
On April 2, 2024, Defendant filed the instant demurrer arguing each
of the Complaint’s causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.
·       Plaintiffs’
first cause of action for damages cause fails because it is unintelligible and
devoid of any facts. It appears that Plaintiff intended for it to be a prayer
for relief.
·       Plaintiffs’
second cause of action for breach of contract fails because Plaintiffs do not
attach the written lease agreement or plead the terms of the contract. 
·       Plaintiffs’
third cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress fails because
Plaintiffs fail to plead any extreme or outrageous conduct by Defendant with
the specific intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing, emotional distress. The relationship between Plaintiffs and Defendant
was merely an arms-length landlord and tenant relationship.
 
Plaintiffs did not file an opposition. Defendant did not file
a reply.
 
II. ANALYSIS
 
A.     Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer
tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn
v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers,
courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any defects must be
apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian
v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) “A demurrer tests the
pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v.
Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the
court assumes the truth of the complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual
allegations. (Id.) The only issue a demurrer is concerned with is
whether the complaint, as it stands, states a cause of action. (Hahn,
supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p. 747.)
 
B.     Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before filing a demurrer pursuant to
this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by
telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for
the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be reached that would
resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendant submitted a declaration stating
he mailed Plaintiffs a meet and confer letter on March 22, 2024, however, he has
not received a response. (Quadros Decl., ¶¶ 3-4.)  Defendant’s counsel
also stated Plaintiffs did not list their telephone number on any documents
filed with the Complaint. (Quadros Decl., ¶ 5.) While the
court does not find the moving party satisfied its obligations to meet and
confer in person or by telephone, the failure to meet and confer is not grounds
to overrule or sustain a demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, subd. (a)(4);
435.5 subd. (a)(4).) Thus, the Court proceeds on the merits.
 
[Note: No meet and confer]
 
C.     First Cause
of Action: Damages Cause
 
Defendant argues that the demurrer to Plaintiffs’ first cause of
action for “Damages Cause” should be sustained because it is unintelligible. 
 
The Court agrees. Plaintiffs list “Damages Cause” as the first
cause of action on the cover page of the Complaint. However, it is well
established that damages are not an independent cause of action. (Civil Code
§ 329.) Civil Code § 3294 defines the circumstances in
which certain damages may be awarded.  As set out in this section, damages
are awarded for certain causes of action and are not an independent cause of
action. 
 
Accordingly,
the demurrer is SUSTAINED as to Plaintiffs’ first cause of action with leave to
amend. 
D.     Second Cause
of Action: Breach of Contract
 
Next, Defendant argues that Plaintiffs failed to allege
sufficient facts to constitute the second cause of action for breach of written
contract. 
“To
establish a cause of action for breach of contract, the plaintiff must plead
and prove (1) the existence of the contract, (2) the plaintiff’s performance or
excuse for nonperformance, (3) the defendant’s breach, and (4) resulting
damages to the plaintiff. [Citation.]” (Maxwell v. Dolezal (2014) 231
Cal.App.4th 93, 97-98.) “A written contract may be pleaded either by its terms
– set out verbatim in the complaint or a copy of the contract attached to the
complaint and incorporated therein by reference – or by its legal effect.
[Citation.] In order to plead a
contract by its legal effect, plaintiff must ‘allege the substance of its
relevant terms.’” (Heritage Pacific Financial, LLC v. Monroy (2013) 215
Cal.App.4th 972, 993.) 
It appears that
Plaintiffs allege the parties entered into a written contract. The Complaint states
“Justo Ignacio
Guadarrama Flores and Mercedes Avelia Alavez Palacios made a contract with
Defendant Oralia Parga for residential agreement Contract on 06/01/2016 as
shown in EXHIBIT A. [T]he contract stated 3 people for both of us and a older
son who is in coma and paralyzed in the hospital.” (Compl., p. 2.)
Here, the Court does not find that Plaintiffs have pleaded the
written contract by its terms or by its legal effect. The Complaint does not
set out verbatim the terms of any alleged lease agreement. While Plaintiffs allege
that Exhibit A of the Complaint is a copy of the contract, Exhibit A states
that it is an Application to Rent. (Compl., Ex. A.) Plaintiffs have not
attached the written rental or lease agreement. Thus, Plaintiffs have failed to allege sufficient
facts to establish a cause of action for breach of written contract. 
Accordingly, the demurrer is SUSTAINED
as to Plaintiff’s second cause of action with leave to amend. 
E.     Third Cause
of Action: Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress
 
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff failed to allege sufficient facts to constitute the third cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress. 
 
“The
elements of a prima facie case for the tort of intentional infliction of
emotional distress are: (1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant
with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of
causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme
emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional
distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct. Conduct to be outrageous must
be so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized
community.” (Wilson v. Hynek (2012) 207 Cal.App.4th 999, 1009.) 
 
The
Complaint alleges that as a result of Defendant’s conduct, “[t]hese emotional damages distress has making my situation a
little harder because of my son which is in the hospital in coma/paralyzed.
This Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress and Damages caused by
defendant Oralia Parga and a breach of contract without any conflict of damages
causing me and my family after this malicious action.” (Compl., p. 2.)
 
The Court
does not find that this cause of action has been sufficiently pled. Plaintiffs fail to plead any extreme or outrageous conduct by
Defendant with the specific intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the
probability of causing, emotional distress.
Further, Plaintiffs fail to state facts demonstrating the
emotional distress Plaintiff incurred. A mere
allegation that a plaintiff suffered severe emotional distress, without facts
indicating the nature or extent of any mental suffering incurred as a result of the
defendant's alleged outrageous conduct, does not state a cause of action for
intentional infliction of emotional distress. (Pitman v. City of Oakland
(1988) 197 Cal.App.3d 1037, 1047–1048.) Here, the Complaint
merely states that Defendant caused Plaintiffs emotional distress. (Compl., p.
2.) The Court finds that this allegation
does not sufficiently indicate the nature or extent of Plaintiffs’ mental
suffering.  
Based on the foregoing, Plaintiffs have
not alleged facts sufficient to state a cause of action for intentional
infliction of emotional distress against Defendant and the demurrer to the
sixth cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend. 
III. DISPOSITION

 
Defendant’s demurrer as to each of Plaintiffs’ causes
of action in the Complaint is SUSTAINED with 20 days leave to amend. 