  Case Number:  22STCV36213    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  49 Andrew Black v. Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority, et al.DEFENDANTS’ MOTION FOR JUDGMENT ON THE PLEADINGS MOVING PARTY: Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority and Public Transportation Services CorporationRESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Andrew BlackSTATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS:Plaintiff Andrew Black alleges Defendants Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority (“Metro”) and Public Transportation Services Corporation (“PTSC”) hired him as Deputy Chief System Security and Law Enforcement Officer. Plaintiff alleges Defendants terminated him after he made complaints to his superiors about bus driver safety, and for informing the bus drivers of solutions Plaintiff would move to implement to protect them. Plaintiff also alleges Defendants, or its agents, made false assurances to Plaintiff regarding his ability to be fired, which persuaded him to leave Hawaii and take the position in Los Angeles. Plaintiff asserts causes of action for (1) wrongful termination in violation of public policy and (2) violation of Labor Code section 970.Defendants now move for judgment on the pleadings. Plaintiff opposed.TENTATIVE RULING:Defendants’ Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED.  Generally speaking, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)At the hearing, Plaintiff will be given the opportunity to make an offer of proof as to how he can reasonably amend the Complaint to assert any facts which could support any viable legal theory relieving him from the claim presentation requirements, and/or his substantial compliance with same. If he cannot, no leave to amend will be given. Moving party to give notice, unless waived.  DISCUSSION:Motion for Judgment on the PleadingsA. Judicial NoticePursuant to Defendants’ request, the court takes judicial notice of Defendants’ Exhibit B, the selected portion of the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority Administrative Code. The court declines to take judicial notice of Defendants’ Exhibit A (Plaintiff’s verified response to Form Interrogatories), because “discovery responses…are not a proper matter for judicial notice.” (TSMC N. Am. v. Semiconductor Mfg. Internat. Corp. (2008) 161 Cal. App. 4th 581, 594; Evid. Code, §§ 451, 452; (Cloud v. Northrop Grumman Corp. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 995, 999 [“Presentation of extrinsic evidence is ... not proper on a motion for judgment on the pleadings”].)B. Legal StandardThe rules applicable to demurrers also apply to motions for judgment on the pleadings.    (County of Orange v. Association of Orange County Deputy Sheriffs (2011) 192 Cal.App.4th 21, 32.) The trial court must accept as true all material facts properly pleaded, but does not consider conclusions of law or fact, opinions, speculation, or allegations contrary to law or facts that are judicially noticed.  (Stevenson Real Estate Services, Inc. v. CB Richard Ellis Real Estate Services, Inc. (2006) 138 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1219-20.) “A motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made at any time either prior to the trial or at the trial itself.” (Stoops v. Abbassi (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 644, 650.)C. Analysis1. Both Defendants are Local Public EntitiesDefendants Metro and PTSC move for judgment on the pleadings as to both causes of action in the Complaint. First, Defendants argue that because both Defendants are public entities, Plaintiff had to, but failed, to plead compliance with the Government Claims Act. Generally, no suit for money or damages may be brought against a government entity (or against a government employee acting in the scope of employment) unless and until a timely claim has been presented pursuant to the Government Claims Act (Gov.Code § 810 et seq.) and either acted upon or deemed rejected by the passage of time. [Gov.Code §§ 945.4, 950.2, 912.4.)  “[A] plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating or excusing compliance with the claim presentation requirement. Otherwise, his complaint is subject to a general demurrer for failure to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action.” (State of California v. Superior Ct. (2004) 32 Cal. 4th 1234, 1243.)Plaintiff has not plead facts addressing the claim presentation requirement. Plaintiff contends, however, that Defendant PTSC is not a “public entity,” and is therefore not subject to the claim requirements. Plaintiff apparently concedes he has not filed a claim. He also concedes MTA is a public entity. Thus, the first issue becomes whether PTSC is a public entity subject to the claim requirements. Under the Government Claims Act, “local public entity” includes a “public agency, and any other political subdivision or public corporation in the State…” (Gov. Code § 900.4.) PTSC is a “governmental non-profit public benefit corporation” created by Metro. (Silver v. Los Angeles Cnty. Metro. Transportation Auth. (2000) 79 Cal. App. 4th 338, 342.) Metro created PTSC to “provide uninterrupted coverage to its employees who participated in PERS as well as to provide its other employees with the opportunity to obtain PERS retirement benefits.” (Id.)In Silver, the Court of Appeal affirmed the trial court’s finding that PTSC was a “public agency” as that term is used under the Government Code sections pertaining to the Public Employees Retirement System. (Gov. Code §§ 20000 et seq.) In support of its argument that PTSC is not a public entity under the Claims Act, Plaintiff relies on Hagman v. Meher Mount Corp. (2013) 215 Cal. App. 4th 82, 88.) But that case actually supports the contrary and is consistent with Silver’s holding that PTSC is a “public agency.”In Hagman, a non-profit religious organization organized as a public benefit corporation attempted to argue it was a “public entity” immune from adverse possession.  The court distinguished “public benefit corporations” from “public corporations.” (Id. at 88.) That the terms “happen to share two of the same words,” the court explained, “does not make them synonymous.” (Id.) “[P]ublic benefit corporations are not public entities,” in part because “public benefit corporations” lack “some degree of sovereignty” possessed by “public entities.” (Id.) In other words, “public benefit corporations” are “not created by the government, even though they may require governmental approval to qualify as a public benefit corporation. They are not owned or operated by the government. They do not possess any of the traditional incidents of sovereign authority such as the power to tax or to condemn property. They do not serve a governmental purpose, although they may serve altruistic purposes that benefit society.” (Id.)The holding of Hagman is that an entity is not a “public entity” just by virtue of being a “public benefit corporation.” But this does not mean that a public benefit corporation can never be a public entity. Rather, it is the substance of the entity that controls. Unlike the entity in Hagman, PTSC was created by the government and serves a governmental purpose. PTSC also maintains a degree of sovereignty necessary for public entities. Indeed, the Silver Court conducted the same analysis into PTSC. (Silver, supra, 79 Cal. App. 4th at 356.) Finding that PTSC was a “public agency” for purposes of the Public Employees Retirement System, the Court reasoned that “PTSC had a sufficient degree of autonomy from the MTA because PTSC was created under California statute and had its own board of directors, which board had various powers, including: the power to select and remove all the officers of the corporation, to borrow money and incur indebtedness for the purpose of the corporation, to appoint committees, and to enter into contracts.” (Id.) Finally, the text of Metro’s Administrative Code also supports this conclusion. The Code addresses the relationship between Metro and PTSC as follows:As a corporation the PTSC has legal status distinct from the MTA, but by contract the PTSC functions solely as an organizational unit of the MTA. When serving as an organizational unit of the MTA, the PTSC is subject to all governmental privileges and immunities enjoyed by the MTA…(See RJN Exh. B, Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transportation Authority Administrative Code, Title 2 Administration, Chapter 2- 30 Public Transportation Services Corporation, Subsection 2-30-030 Relationship of PTSC and MTA, emphasis added.) [FN 1]Considering the guidance of the foregoing authorities, this court concludes PTSC can be deemed either a “public corporation” or “public agency,” and is therefore a local public entity under the Government Claims Act. (See Gov. Code § 900.4.)  2. Plaintiff’s Labor Code Claims are Subject to the Claim RequirementsEven accepting that both Defendants are public entities, Plaintiff then argues that his alleged Labor Code violations are exempt from the claim filing requirements. Plaintiff’s first cause of action is named “wrongful termination in violation of public policy,” but is based on an alleged violation of Labor Code § 6310(a)(1). This section makes it unlawful for any person to discharge or in any manner discriminate against any employee “because the employee made any oral or written complaint to the division, other governmental agencies having statutory responsibility for or assisting the division with reference to employee safety or health, their employer, or their representative.” (Lab. Code § 6310(a)(1).) Plaintiff’s second cause of action is based on a violation of Labor Code section 970. This section provides that “[n]o person…shall influence, persuade, or engage any person to change from…any place outside to any place within the State…for the purpose of working in any branch of labor, through or by means of knowingly false representations…concerning the length of time such work will last.” (Lab. Code § 970.)Courts have required that claims brought under the Labor Code comply with the claim presentation requirements. (See Le Mere v. Los Angeles Unified Sch. Dist. (2019) 35 Cal. App. 5th 237, 245.) This court is aware that claim requirements may not be necessary where a statute includes its own procedural guidelines that “control over the general rules governing claims against governmental entities.” (See Garcia v. Los Angeles Unified School Dist. (1985) 173 Cal. App. 3d. 701, 710-711 [holding FEHA claims not subject to claims requirement].) Plaintiff, however, makes no attempt to explain that this is the case with the Labor Code claims asserted here. Therefore, a claim was necessary for both Metro and PTSC on both of Plaintiff’s causes of action. Because Plaintiff concedes he did not file such a claim, his Complaint is barred against both Defendants.Accordingly, Defendants’ Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is GRANTED. Generally speaking, leave to amend must be allowed where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v. Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.) Where a Plaintiff “was required to file a claim with” the public entity “before filing her lawsuit” but fails to do so, her lawsuit is barred.  (Le Mere v. Los Angeles Unified Sch. Dist. (2019) 35 Cal. App. 5th 237, 247.) A Plaintiff cannot cure this failure “by filing a postlawsuit claim, particularly when the claim is filed a year after the lawsuit had commenced. At that point, it is too late to provide the public entity sufficient information to enable it to adequately investigate claims and to settle them, if appropriate, without the expense of litigation.” (Id. [internal quotes omitted].) At the hearing, Plaintiff will be given the opportunity to make an offer of proof as to how he can reasonably amend the Complaint consistent with this Ruling.  If he cannot, no leave to amend will be given. Moving party to give notice, unless waived.  IT IS SO ORDERED.Dated:   October 11, 2023 ___________________________________ Randolph M. Hammock Judge of the Superior CourtFN 1 - It is noted that Defendant did not attach a copy of the Administrative Code as an exhibit with its request for judicial notice. On its own, this court has obtained a PDF version of Metro’s Administrative Code at the following web address: https://libraryarchives.metro.net/dpgtl/Ordinances/AdministrativeCode.pdfAny party may submit on the tentative ruling by contacting the courtroom via email at Smcdept49@lacourt.org by no later than 4:00 p.m. the day before the hearing.  All interested parties must be copied on the email.  It should be noted that if you submit on a tentative ruling the court will still conduct a hearing if any party appears. By submitting on the tentative you have, in essence, waived your right to be present at the hearing, and you should be aware that the court may not adopt the tentative, and may issue an order which modifies the tentative ruling in whole or in part.