 Case Number:  22STCV19075    Hearing Date:   October 30, 2023    Dept:  61 Plaintiff
Sohel Sedghat’s Motion to Compel Further Responses to Special Interrogatories
and Requests for Production from Defendant City of Los Angeles is GRANTED as to
Special Interrogatories No. 11 and 12, and is otherwise DENIED. Further
responses within 30 days.No sanctions are awarded.
 
I.      
MOTIONS
TO COMPEL FURTHER
“Any party may obtain discovery . . . by propounding to any other party to
the action written interrogatories to be answered under oath.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.010(a).) If a
propounding party is not satisfied with the response served by a responding
party, the former may move the court to compel further interrogatory
responses.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300;
Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v.
Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.)  The propounding party must demonstrate that
the responses were incomplete, inadequate or evasive, or that the responding
party asserted objections that are either without merit or too general.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.300(a)(1)–(3); Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc., supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at 403.)
“A propounding party may demand a responding
party to produce documents that are in their possession, custody or control.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.010.) A party may likewise conduct discovery by
propounding interrogatories to another party to be answered under oath. (Code
Civ. Proc. § 2030.010, subd. (a).) The responding party must respond to the
production demand either by complying, by representing that the party lacks the
ability to comply, or by objecting to the demand. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2031.210.) The responding party must respond to the interrogatories by
answering or objecting. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.210, subd. (a).) If the
responding party fails to serve timely responses, the propounding party may
move for an order compelling responses to the production demand and
interrogatories. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, 2031.300.)
 
Plaintiff Sohel Sedghat (Plaintiff) moves to
compel further responses to Special Interrogatories, Set Two, and Requests for
Production, Set Four, from Defendant City of Los Angeles. Plaintiff’s motion
does not include a separate statement or outline of the discovery at issue,
does not attempt to show good cause for the requests for production, and does
not identify which requests in this discovery are at issue. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2030.300, subd. (b)(2); 2031.310, subd. (b)(3.)  Plaintiff includes an outline of the discovery
at issue in reply, which identifies Interrogatories No. 3, 5, 7, 8, 11, and 12,
and Requests for Production No. 1–3.
 
A further response is necessary as to Special
Interrogatories No. 11 and 12. No. 11 sought
the “true and correct name” of the witness identified as Timothy Anderson as
one of the witnesses to the incident in this case, to which Defendant responded
that it did not have that information in its possession. (Motion Exh. A, C.)
Although a party may respond to interrogatories by stating they lack personal
knowledge, such a response may only be given after “a reasonable and good faith
effort to obtain the information by inquiry to other natural persons or
organizations.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.220, subd. (c).) “If only partial
answers can be supplied, the answers should reveal all information then
available to the party. If a person cannot furnish details, he should set forth
the efforts made to secure the information.” (Deyo v. Kilbourne (1978)
84 Cal.App.3d 771, 782.) Defendant has not set forth its efforts made to secure
the information.
 
Interrogatory No. 12, meanwhile, seeks the basis for Defendant’s denial,
contained in its answer, that Plaintiff was harmed in any way. Defendant
responded with objections based on the contention that the question was
impermissibly compound and not complete in itself, citing Code of Civil
Procedure § 2030.060, subd. (d), (f). The request does not run afoul of these
sections, since it merely asks Defendant to state the basis for one of the
contentions made in its answer. 
 
No
further responses are necessary for the other interrogatories. Interrogatory
No. 3 sought the identity of any individual who was interviewed during or after
the incident “and who has provided a written or verbal testimony in connection
with the incident.” (Motion Exh. A.) Defendant responded that no responsive
individuals existed. (Motion Exh. C.) This is likely because “testimony,” as
called for by the interrogatory, ordinarily means “Evidence that a competent
witness under oath or affirmation gives at trial or in an affidavit or
deposition.” (TESTIMONY, Black's Law Dictionary (11th ed. 2019).) Defendant’s
response is not a contradiction of other interrogatories where it identified
percipient witnesses, since no such witnesses have evidently testified under
oath.
Interrogatory No. 5 asked if
Defendant contended that Plaintiff had an ID with a different name in his
possession, and to state the circumstances of the discovery of any such
identification. (Motion Exh. A.) Defendant responded “No,” to the contention,
and thus obviated the need for any further response. (Motion Exh. C.)
Interrogatories No. 7 and 8
sought the identity of the witnesses that Defendant intended to call at trial,
and Defendant identified only Plaintiff, noting that discovery was continuing.
(Motion Exh. A, C.) These requests were improper, since a party may not
ordinarily seek the identity of intended trial witnesses — as opposed to
percipient witnesses that the party knows to possess material information,
regardless of intent to call at trial — during discovery. (See In re
Jeanette H. (1990) 225 Cal.App.3d 25, 32 [holding that intended trial
witnesses are protected by the work product doctrine].) The deadline to
exchange trial witnesses in Los Angeles Superior Court is five days prior to
the final status conference. (See L.A. Super. Ct. Rule 3.25, subd. (f)(1).) No further response is needed
here.
No further responses are
necessary as to the requests for production. Request No. 1 sought documents
related to witnesses that Defendant intends to have testify at trial, which is
an improper inquiry in pre-trial discovery. (See Jeanette H., supra, 225
Cal.App.3d at p. 32.) Request No. 2 sought documents sent to Defendant
concerning the incident, to which it responded that no such documents had ever
existed. (Motion Exh. B, D.) And Request No. 3 sought all statements obtained
by any witness to the incident about the incident, to which Defendant responded
by identifying pages from its prior production. (Motion Exh. B, D.) Plaintiff
presents no evidence that this identification is incomplete.
 
The motion is therefore GRANTED as to
Interrogatories No. 11 and 12, and is otherwise DENIED. No sanctions are
awarded