  Case Number:  23LBCV01122    Hearing Date:   November 26, 2024    Dept:  S25 BackgroundPlaintiff/Cross-Defendant Moreno (“Moreno”) filed this action against Defendant/Cross-Complainant Ybarra (“Ybarra”) on June 22, 2023. The form-complaint alleges no facts but seeks compensatory damages in the amount of $700,000. In Moreno’s factual statement, Moreno alleges that statements Ybarra made in a police report resulted in the termination of Moreno’s employment with the U.S. and Border Protection. (Factual Statement at p. 2.) On November 17, 2023, Ybarra filed an answer to Moreno’s unverified complaint. On February 20, 2024, Ybarra filed a cross-complaint against Moreno, alleging causes of action for assault and intentional infliction of emotional distress. The cross-complaint alleges that Moreno accosted Ybarra while with his wife and threatened to inflict grievous bodily harm upon Ybarra, by pointing a weapon toward them, while verbally assaulting Ybarra. (Cross-Compl., ¶¶ 3, 17-18.)On September 20, 2024, the Court denied terminating sanctions but granted Defendant’s request for evidentiary sanctions, thereby precluding Defendant from:1. “Presenting evidence that any alleged act of Ybarra was a contributing factor in the U.S Customs and Border Protection’s decision to terminate Moreno’s employment.2. Presenting any evidence of any kind or nature which in any way related to the medical treatment Moreno received as a result of the injuries he sustained as alleged in his complaint.3. Presenting any evidence of any kind or nature which in any way relates to the amount of damages alleged in his complaint or any other amount not so specified.4. Presenting any photographs, films, or videotapes depicting any place, object, or individual concerning the allegations alleged in Moreno’s complaint.5. Presenting the testimony of any person who: (a) witnessed the defamatory remark alleged in the complaint; (b) who witnessed the events occurring immediately before or after the defamatory remark alleged in the complaint was made; (c) who heard any statements made about the alleged defamatory remark alleged in the complaint; and anyone claiming to have knowledge of the defamatory remark alleged in the complaint.” (September 20, 2024 Minute Order.)On September 10, 2024, Defendant filed the instant motion for summary judgment. On November 14, 2024, Defendant filed a notice of non-opposition to the instant motion for summary judgment.Legal StandardThe purpose of a motion for summary judgment or summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal. 4th 826, 843.) “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.” (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)“The supporting papers shall include a separate statement setting forth plainly and concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed. Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence. The failure to comply with this requirement of a separate statement may in the court's discretion constitute a sufficient ground for denial of the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1); see also Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1350(c)(2) & (d).)“The opposition papers shall include a separate statement that responds to each of the material facts contended by the moving party to be undisputed, indicating if the opposing party agrees or disagrees that those facts are undisputed. The statement also shall set forth plainly and concisely any other material facts the opposing party contends are disputed. Each material fact contended by the opposing party to be disputed shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence. Failure to comply with this requirement of a separate statement may constitute a sufficient ground, in the court's discretion, for granting the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(3).)“On a motion for summary judgment [or summary adjudication], the initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) The moving party is entitled to summary judgment or summary adjudication if they can show that there is no triable issue of material fact or if they have a complete defense thereto. (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfiend Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) In analyzing motions for summary judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent's claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the Court must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers, except evidence to which the Court has sustained an objection, as well as all reasonable inferences that may be drawn from that evidence, in the light most favorable to the party opposing summary judgment. (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159 Cal.App.4th 463, 467.)A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim for damages, or an issue of duty. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).)Discussion1st Cause of Action – DefamationThe tort of defamation “involves (a) a publication that is (b) false, (c) defamatory, and (d) unprivileged, and that (e) has a natural tendency to injure or that causes special damage.” (Taus v. Loftus (2007) 40 Cal.4th 683, 720.) Only false statements of fact, not opinion, are actionable as defamation.Defendant argues that the 1st cause of action fails because: (1) the statements at issue made by Defendant are truth, (2) Defendant’s filing of a police report is within the privilege of Civ. Code, § 47, subd. (b), (3) Plaintiff cannot demonstrate that Defendant’s statements were “provably false” and (4) Defendant’s statements regarding Plaintiff’s assaults are privileged under Civ. Code, § 47, subd. (c). (See Defendant’s Separate Statement of Undisputed Material Fact (“SSUMF”) Nos. 1-4, 12-15, 18, 19; Civ. Code, § 47, subds. (b)(5) [“This subdivision does not make privileged any communication between a person and a law enforcement agency in which the person makes a false report that another person has committed, or is in the act of committing, a criminal act or is engaged in an activity requiring law enforcement intervention, knowing that the report is false, or with reckless disregard for the truth or falsity of the report”] and (c) [a privileged publication is one made “[i]n a communication, without malice, to a person interested therein, (1) by one who is also interested, or (2) by one who stands in such a relation to the person interested as to afford a reasonable ground for supposing the motive for the communication to be innocent, or (3) who is requested by the person interested to give the information.”]) Defendant has met his burden for summary judgment; the burden now shifts to Plaintiff.No opposition has been filed by Plaintiff. Plaintiff has not negated Defendant’s claim.The Court agrees with Defendant. Plaintiff’s evidence does not show an issue of material triable fact. All the elements necessary for a defamation claim have not been established. Thus, Defendant’s instant motion is GRANTED as to the 1st cause of action – Defamation.2nd Cause of Action – Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress“A cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress exists when there is ‘(1) extreme and outrageous conduct by the defendant with the intention of causing, or reckless disregard of the probability of causing, emotional distress; (2) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (3) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous conduct.’ A defendant’s conduct is ‘outrageous’ when it is so ‘extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.’ And the defendant’s conduct must be ‘intended to inflict injury or engaged in with the realization that injury will result.’” (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035,1050-1051.)In the instant motion, Defendant argues that Plaintiff has failed to present any evidence that he suffered from any form of emotional distress. (SSUMF Nos 8-11.) Defendant points to Plaintiff’s deposition testimony that he has only been treated for “heart problems” and for diabetes. (SSUMF No. 20.) Further, Defendant asserts that speech privilege afforded under Civ. Code, § 47, subds. (b) and (c) is not conduct is “so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community.” (Hughes, supra, 46 Cal.4th at p. 1050-1051.) The burden now shifts to Plaintiff.Again, Plaintiff has not filed an opposition and thus has not negated Defendant’s arguments.The Court agrees with Defendant in that a material issue of triable fact does not exist. Accordingly, Defendant’s motion for summary judgment as to the 2nd cause of action for Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress is GRANTED.DamagesAs to damages, Defendant asserts that Plaintiff has not provided any evidence that supports a finding for damages of any amount. (See SSUMF Nos. 8-11, 14-18, 20 and 21.) The burden now shifts to Plaintiff. Plaintiff has not filed an opposition and thus has not negated Defendant’s arguments.Tentative RulingDefendant’s instant motion for summary judgment is GRANTED. Judgment entered in favor of Defendant. Defendant to give notice.