  Case Number:  19STCV07429    Hearing Date:   November 30, 2023    Dept:  17 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
 
DEPARTMENT 17
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



JEAN ROORYCK, et al.  
                           
         vs.
 
CHRISTOPHE SCHATTEMAN, et al. 
 
 


 Case No.: 
  19STCV7429
 
 
 
 Hearing Date:  November 30, 2023



 
Defendants’
motion to enforce settlement is GRANTED. The Court awards $2,750
in attorneys fees and $133.00 in costs. 

            
On 3/5/2019,
Plaintiffs Jean Rooryck and Seven Seas Ventures, Inc. fka Audio Records, Inc.
(collectively, Plaintiffs) filed suit agaist Christophe Schatteman, Danielle
Schatteman, Christophe and Danielle Schatteman as Trustees of the Christophe
and Danielle Schatteman Living Trust 2006, Hair Fashion, Inc., teaming Up,
Inc., CS & Associates, Inc., Cristophe Levyn Ownership Group, Inc. and
Christophe-Levyn, LLC, alleging: (1) breach of contract; (2) breach of implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (3) account stated; and (4)
accounting. 
            
Now,
Defendants Christophe Schatteman and Danielle Schatteman Living Trust 2006 and
Edelweiss Enterprises, Inc. (collectively, Defendants) move to enforce the
settlement agreement entered into by Defendants and Plaintiffs, by dismissing
this action and awarding Defendants attorney fees and costs incurred.       
 
Discussion 
 
            Defendants
argue that following negotiations, Plaintiffs’ counsel sent a version of a
settlement agreement he referred to as “final” to Defendants for Signature in
November 2022. Defendants contend that they promptly signed the agreement, and
consistent with the agreement, tendered the full settlement payment to
Plaintiffs’ counsel. Notwithstanding Defendants’ signature and payment,
Plaintiffs failed to sign the agreement or to dismiss the action with
prejudice, as they had agreed.  
 
            In
opposition, Plaintiffs contend that they are not bound by the Settlement
Agreement because the Settlement Agreement signed by Defendants on December 29,
2022 had different terms from the version initially signed by Plaintiffs on
October 17, 2022. As such, Plaintiffs contend that the version signed by
Defendants was a counteroffer which was never accepted, as evidenced by the
fact that it was never signed by Plaintiffs. 
 
            However,
in support of this contention, Plaintiffs provide that the only altered
provision between the two settlement agreements is a section of the Recitals
which read: “WHEREAS, disputes have arisen between Plaintiffs and Defendants
whereby Plaintiffs contend that monies are owed for services rendered pursuant
to the EA Agreement and in the Schatteman Action that have gone unpaid.” This
provision is not material to the agreement (indeed, even Plaintiffs express
confusion as to why Defendants would remove this provision), and it does not
modify the terms of the offer in any way.
 
 It is elementary that an acceptance is
required to be identical with the offer, and must be unconditional and not add
any new terms thereto. If the terms of the offer are changed or added to by the
acceptance, there is no meeting of the minds and no contract." (Robbins
v. Pacific Eastern Corp. (1937) 8 Cal.2d 241, 276.) However, given that
this recital provision does not impact or alter the obligations of either
party, its non-inclusion in the
version signed by Defendant does not preclude a meeting of the minds, or
constitute a counter-offer. 
 
            Contract
formation is governed by objective manifestations, not subjective intent of any
individual involved. (E.g., Atlas Assurance Co. v. McCombs Corp. (1983) 146 Cal.App.3d 135, 144, 194 Cal.Rptr. 66; Meyer
v. Benko (1976) 55 Cal.App.3d 937, 942–943, 127
Cal.Rptr. 846.) The test is “what the outward manifestations of
consent would lead a reasonable person to believe.” (Meyer v. Benko, supra, 55 Cal.App.3d at pp.
942–943, 127 Cal.Rptr. 846.) Here, Plaintiffs concede that they signed the
Settlement Agreement on 10/17/2022, and that they sent what they believed to be
a finalized Settlement Agreement to Defendant for signature. Defendant signed
the Agreement, and tendered payment. The Agreement by Defendant did not set
forth any new terms, nor did it alter or modify any of the obligations or terms
of the parties’ agreement. Plaintiffs accepted payment from Defendant owed
pursuant to the Settlement Agreement, and to date have not returned this
payment to Defendants. Moreover, Plaintiffs’
counsel expressly reiterated and confirmed to this Court at the continued OSC
re: Dismissal (Settlement) on 5/5/2023, that the parties had settled, that
Defendant had tendered payment under the agreement, and that only remaining
task was for Plaintiffs to complete the ministerial tasks of signing the
settlement agreement and filing a request for dismissal. As such, the objective
evidence evinces contract formation and consent to the Settlement Agreement. 
 
            Based
on the foregoing, Defendants’ motion to enforce settlement is granted. Section
14 of the Settlement Agreement, entitled “Enforcement Costs,” provides that the
prevailing party in any proceeding to enforce the settlement agreement is
entitled to recover from the other party its “reasonable attorney’s fees, costs
and expenses” incurred in such proceeding. (Ostrow Decl. Exh. B at § 14.) The
Court awards $2,750 in attorneys fees ($550/hr x 5 hrs reasonably spent) and
$133.00 in costs.  
 
 
It is so ordered. 
 
Dated:  November   
, 2023
                                                                                                                                                           
   Hon. Jon R.
Takasugi
   Judge of the
Superior Court
 
 
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must
send an email to the court at smcdept17@lacourt.org
by 4 p.m. the day prior as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If a party submits
on the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must
identify the party submitting on the tentative. 
If all parties to a motion submit, the court will adopt this
tentative as the final order.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  For more information, please contact the court clerk at (213)
633-0517.  
 
 