  Case Number:  22STCV13981    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiffs’
Motion to Disqualify Attorney; Order to Show Cause Re: Dismissal for Failure to
Serve Summons on Complaint and Failure to Prosecute Defendant “Dept. IHHS”
Motion to Disqualify
Plaintiffs
Christopher A. Altounian, Margarita Maria Carranza and Luis H. Carranza move to
disqualify attorney Quintin Lucas.  Trial
courts have inherent power to disqualify counsel from representing a
party.  (People ex rel. Dept. of
Corporations v. SpeeDee Oil Change Systems, Inc. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 1135, 1145.)  When considering a motion to disqualify
counsel, “[t]he paramount concern must be to preserve public trust in the
scrupulous administration of justice and the integrity of the bar.  The important right to counsel of one's choice
must yield to ethical considerations that affect the fundamental principles of
our judicial process.”  (Ibid.)
Plaintiffs show no valid grounds to disqualify attorney Quintin Lucas.  Even if they had, the court could not
disqualify Lucas.  He is no longer
involved in this proceeding.  Lucas
represented former defendant the State of
California, by and through the Department of Health Care Services.  The action against that defendant has been
dismissed with prejudice.  There is
nothing to disqualify Lucas from.
Order to Show Cause Re: Dismissal
On January 5,
2023, the court set an order to show cause re: dismissal for failure to serve
summons on complaint for September 13, 2023. 
On September 13, 2023, the court continued the hearing on the order to
show cause to this date.  The clerk
served notice of the hearing by mail on plaintiffs.
The court will exercise its discretion to dismiss
the action against the sole remaining defendant, “Dept. IHSS.”  “California courts
have inherent power to dismiss civil cases for
unreasonable, inexcusable delay in prosecution.” (Stephen Slesinger, Inc. v.
Walt Disney Co. (2007) 155 Cal.App.4th 736, 758.)  “The court on its own
motion may dismiss an action under Code of Civil Procedure sections
583.410-583.430 for delay in prosecution if the action has not been brought to
trial or conditionally settled within two years after the action was commenced
against the defendant.”  (Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1340(a).)
More than two years have passed
since plaintiffs commenced this action on April 27, 2022.  Plaintiffs have not brought the action to
trial.  The action has not been
conditionally settled.  The court gave
adequate notice to plaintiffs of its intent to dismiss this action under
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1340(b). 
Plaintiffs have shown no diligence in pursuing this action as against
“Dept. IHSS.”  Plaintiffs have never
filed valid proof of service of summons on that defendant.  Nor have they applied for an order permitting
them to use any form of substituted service on “Dept. IHSS.”  
Moreover, the defendant “Dept. IHSS”
is not an actual entity.  “The
In-Home Supportive Services (IHSS) program (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 12300 et
seq.) provides in-home services to elderly or disabled persons so that they may
avoid institutionalization.”  (Skidgel
v. California Unemployment Insurance Appeals Board (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th
574, 577.)  The program is “administered
by the State Department of Social Services.” 
(Welf. & Inst. Code, § 12300.4(a).) 
IHSS is a program, not a “Department.” 
The Department that administers the IHSS program is part of the State of
California, which was already dismissed from this action with prejudice.  
After considering all relevant factors,
the court finds dismissing this action for failure to serve the summons and for
failure to prosecute serves the interests of justice.  
Disposition
            Plaintiffs’ motion to disqualify
attorney is denied.
The court hereby dismisses the action without prejudice.