 Case Number:  23STCV13571    Hearing Date:   May 7, 2024    Dept:  52 Plaintiff
IDC Managing Member TIC LLC’s Motions: (1) to Compel Responses to Document
Demands (and an Actual Production of Documents); (2) to Compel Responses to
Form Interrogatories; and (3) for Order Establishing Admissions
Motions
to Compel Discovery Responses
Plaintiff
IDC Managing Member TIC LLC moves to compel defendant Phu Nguyen, doing
business as PN Diamond Repair, to respond to document demands, set one, and to
produce responsive documents.  Plaintiff also
moves to compel defendant to respond to form interrogatories – general, set one.   
When
a party fails to timely respond to interrogatories or demands for inspection,
the requesting party may move for an order compelling responses.  (CCP §§ 2030.290(b) [interrogatories];
2031.300(b) [demands for inspection].) 
Failure to timely respond waives any objections.  (CCP §§ 2030.290(a); 2031.300(a).)  
Plaintiff served its form interrogatories – general
and document demands, set one on defendant on November 3, 2023.  (Cohen Decl., ¶ 2.)  Plaintiff’s counsel agreed to extend the
deadline to respond, but defendant did not respond by the extended
deadline.  (Id., ¶ 3.)  In February and March 2024, plaintiff’s
counsel met and conferred with defendant’s counsel about the overdue
responses.  (Id., ¶ 4.)  When plaintiff filed this motion, plaintiff’s
counsel still had not received any discovery responses.  (Id., ¶ 5.)  
Defendant did not timely respond to plaintiff’s form
interrogatories or document demands.  Plaintiff
is therefore
entitled to an order compelling defendant to serve verified responses without
objections to these discovery requests.  
Motion
for Order Establishing Admissions
            Plaintiff IDC Managing Member TIC
LLC moves for an order deeming admitted the truth of the matters and the
genuineness of documents specified in requests for admission, set one, to defendant
Phu Nguyen, doing business as PN Diamond Repair.  
When a party fails
to respond to requests for admissions, the requesting party may move for an
order that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters
specified in the requests be deemed admitted. 
(CCP § 2033.280(b).)  Failure to
timely respond to requests for admissions also waives any objections.  (CCP § 2033.280(a).)
Plaintiff served requests for admission, set one, on
defendant on November 3, 2023.  (Cohen
Decl., ¶ 2, Ex. A.)  When plaintiff filed
this motion, plaintiff’s counsel still had not received any responses.  (Id., ¶ 5.)   Defendant did not timely respond to the
requests for admissions.  Plaintiff is therefore entitled to an order
deeming admitted the truth of the matters and genuineness of the documents specified
in the requests.
Sanctions
            Plaintiff
moves for a total of $1,365 in sanctions ($455 for each motion) against
defendant Phu Nguyen.  Failing to respond
to an authorized method of discovery is a misuse of the discovery process
subject to monetary sanctions.  (CCP §
2023.010(d).)  Defendant did not respond
to authorized discovery.  The court finds
defendant did not act with substantial justification.  Sanctions are just under the circumstances.
Disposition
Plaintiff IDC
Managing Member TIC LLC’s motion to compel defendant Phu Nguyen, doing business
as PN Diamond Repair, to respond to document demands and to produce documents
is granted.
Defendant
Phu Nguyen is ordered to serve
verified responses to document demands, set one, without objections within 30
days.  Defendant is further ordered to produce all responsive documents concurrently with the written
responses.  Defendant Phu Nguyen is ordered to pay plaintiff IDC
Managing Member TIC LLC $445 in sanctions within 30 days.  
Plaintiff IDC
Managing Member TIC LLC’s motion to compel defendant Phu Nguyen, doing business
as PN Diamond Repair, to respond to form interrogatories is granted.
Defendant
Phu Nguyen is ordered to serve
verified responses to form interrogatories – general, set one, without
objections within 30 days.  Defendant Phu
Nguyen is ordered to pay plaintiff IDC Managing Member TIC LLC $445 in sanctions
within 30 days.  
Plaintiff IDC
Managing Member TIC LLC’s motion for an order establishing the truth of the
matters specified in requests for admission, set one to defendant Phu Nguyen,
doing business as PN Diamond Repair, is granted.  
The genuineness of the
documents and the truth of matters specified in plaintiff’s request for
admissions, set one, to defendant are hereby deemed admitted.  Defendant
Phu Nguyen is ordered to pay plaintiff IDC Managing Member TIC LLC $445 in
sanctions within 30 days.  