 Case Number:  23LBCV02290    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Complaint
Plaintiff, Miraleste Canyon Estates
filed this action against Defendant, Robert Beliveau for breach of CC&Rs,
breach of contract, nuisance, and declaratory relief.  Plaintiff filed its complaint on 12/01/23.  Plaintiff filed proof of service of the
summons and complaint on Defendant on 4/05/24. 
Defendant responded to the complaint by filing a special motion to
strike on 5/31/24.  
 
2.     Motion
to Strike
a.    
Procedural History of Motion
Defendant filed this special motion
to strike on 5/31/24, setting it for hearing on 7/11/24.  Plaintiff filed timely opposition papers on
6/27/24.  On the same day, Defense Counsel
substituted out of the action and Defendant commenced representing himself in
these proceedings.  Defendant has not, to
date, filed a reply to Plaintiff’s opposition. 
Defendant did, however, file additional declarations relating to the
motion on 7/05/24, 7/08/24, and 7/09/24. 

 
b.     Law
Governing Anti-SLAPP Motions
Pursuant to Navellier v. Sletten,
(2002) 29 Cal. 4th 82, 88 89, “Section 425.16 posits instead a two-step process
for determining whether an action is a SLAPP. 
First, the court decides whether the defendant has made a threshold
showing that the challenged cause of action is one arising from protected
activity. (§ 425.16, subd. (b)(1).) ‘A defendant meets this burden by
demonstrating that the act underlying the plaintiff's cause fits one of the
categories spelled out in section 425.16, subdivision (e)’ (Braun v. Chronicle
Publishing Co. (1997) 52 Cal.App.4th 1036, 1043). If the court finds that such
a showing has been made, it must then determine whether the plaintiff has
demonstrated a probability of prevailing on the claim. (§ 425.16, subd. (b)(1);
see generally Quilon, supra, 29 Cal. 4th at p. 67.)"
 
Pursuant to Premier Medical
Management Systems, Inc. v. California Ins. Guarantee Assn., (2006) 136 Cal.
App. 4th 464, 476, “In order to establish a probability of prevailing on the
claim (§ 425.16, subd. (b)(1)), a plaintiff responding to an anti SLAPP motion
must ‘“state[] and substantiate[] a legally sufficient claim.” ’ (Briggs v.
Eden Council for Hope & Opportunity[, supra,] 19 Cal.4th 1106, 1123,
quoting Rosenthal v. Great Western Fin. Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394,
412.) Put another way, the plaintiff ‘must demonstrate that the complaint is
both legally sufficient and supported by a sufficient prima facie showing of
facts to sustain a favorable judgment if the evidence submitted by the
plaintiff is credited.’”
 
c.     First
Prong of Analysis
Defendant has the moving burden to
establish the first prong of the analysis, which is that the complaint arises
out of protected activity under the statute. 
Defendant contends the complaint arises out of his protected free speech
and petitioning activity, including emailing public agencies to inform them of
Plaintiff’s embezzlement, defamation, assault, and extortion.  Plaintiff, in opposition to the motion,
contends the free speech and petitioning activity is merely incidental to the
complaint, which is primarily based on Defendant’s verbal and physical
intimidation and harassment of Plaintiff. 

 
The Court need not determine, in
connection with this motion, whether Defendant established the first prong of
the test.  This is so because, as will be
discussed below, the Court finds Plaintiff met its burden of showing a
probability of success on the merits, and therefore the threshold issue of
whether the statute applies need not be determined.
 
d.     Second
Prong, Probability of Success on the Merits
i.             
Law re: Second Prong
The “probability of prevailing” is
tested by the same standard governing a motion for summary judgment, nonsuit or
directed verdict. I.e., in opposing an anti-SLAPP motion, it is plaintiff's
burden to make a prima facie showing of facts that would support a judgment in
plaintiff's favor.  Taus v. Loftus (2007)
40 Cal.4th 683, 714.  
 
The court does not weigh
credibility or the comparative strength of the evidence. The court considers
defendant's evidence only to determine if it defeats plaintiff's showing as a
matter of law. Soukup v. Law Offices of Herbert Hafif (2006) 39 Cal.4th 260,
291.  
 
ii.            
Plaintiff’s Burden of Proof
With respect to its nuisance cause
of action, Plaintiff provides evidence that Defendant uses profanity-laced
verbal assaults at HOA meetings, up-ended a table during a meeting, and has
engaged in violent and conflictive behavior with neighbors, including throwing
their children’s toys and intentionally over-watering and leaving puddles in
front of units.  Plaintiff also provides
evidence that Defendant has sent hundreds of emails to the Association using
derogatory and defamatory attacks toward the Board and other Owners,
referencing their sexual orientation.  
 
With respect to the breach of
CC&Rs and breach of contract causes of action, Plaintiff provides evidence
that the parties entered into a 2017 stay away agreement, which Defendant
breached through the foregoing conduct. 
Plaintiff provides evidence that the CC&Rs prevent nuisances, which
Defendant’s conduct, detailed above, would violate.  
 
Finally, Plaintiff shows that the
claim for declaratory relief can succeed on its merits, as it rises and falls
with the other claims.
 
Defendant, in his reply
declarations, disputes each of Plaintiff’s showings.  This serves, however, to show that there are
triable issues of material fact concerning Plaintiff’s claims.  As discussed above, the Court does not weigh
the evidence at this stage of the proceedings, and decides the matter using a
summary judgment standard.  The motion is
therefore denied.
 
e.     Attorneys’
Fees
Plaintiff seeks to recover its
attorneys’ fees and costs in the amount of $5076.65.  CCP §425.16(c)(1) permits a plaintiff who
prevails on an anti-slapp motion to recover fees if and only if the Court finds
the motion was frivolous or solely intended to cause unnecessary delay.  Because the action does involve Defendant’s
rights to petition and speak, the Court finds the motion was neither frivolous
nor solely intended to cause delay.  The
request for fees is denied.  
 
3.     Motion
for Sanctions
On 6/12/24, the Court held an OSC
re: sanctions for failure to prosecute. 
The Court noted Plaintiff had filed a brief in opposition to the OSC,
and set the matter for hearing as a motion on 7/11/24.  The Court has read Plaintiff’s attorney’s
6/11/24 declaration and discharges the OSC re: sanctions, finding Plaintiff has
taken steps to prosecute the case such that imposition of sanctions is not
appropriate.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.