 Case Number:  23LBCV01651    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Daniel Kwan Haeng Lee filed this action against Defendant,
JP Morgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Successor-in-Interest for WaMu Mortgage
Pass-Through Certificates Series 2008-AR12 and Does 1-25 for quiet title,
slander of title, cancellation and expungement of void instrument, and
declaratory relief.  Plaintiff filed the
complaint on 9/06/23.
 
On 10/09/23, JP Morgan filed a demurrer and motion to strike directed
at the complaint.  On 3/06/24, prior to
the hearing on the pleading challenge, Plaintiff filed his operative First
Amended Complaint.  The FAC includes
causes of action for cancellation and expungement of void instruments and
declaratory relief.    
 
2.    
Demurrer 
a.     Legal
Standard on Demurrer
A demurrer is a pleading used to
test the legal sufficiency of other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not
fact, regarding the form or content of the opposing party’s pleading.  It is not the function of the demurrer to
challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for purpose of the ruling on
the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true,
however improbable they may be.
 
A demurrer can be used only to
challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack; or from
matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. Blank v. Kirwan 39
Cal.3d 311 (1985). No other extrinsic evidence can be considered (i.e., no
“speaking demurrers”). A demurrer is brought under CCP § 430.10 [grounds], §
430.30 [as to any matter on its face or from which judicial notice may be
taken], and § 430.50(a) [can be taken to the entire complaint or any cause of
action within].  Specifically, a demurrer
may be brought per CCP § 430.10(e) if insufficient facts are stated to support
the cause of action asserted.  Per CCP
§430.10(a) a demurrer may be brought where the court has no jurisdiction of the
subject of the cause of action alleged in the pleading.  Furthermore, demurrer for uncertainty will be
sustained only where the complaint is so bad that the defendant cannot
reasonably respond.  CCP §
430.10(f).  
 
However, in construing the
allegations, the court is to give effect to specific factual allegations that
may modify or limit inconsistent general or conclusory allegations. Financial
Corporation of America v. Wilburn, 189 Cal.App.3rd 764, 769 (1987). And, if the
facts pled in the complaint are inconsistent with facts which are incorporated
by reference from exhibits attached to the complaint, the facts in the
incorporated exhibits control. Further, irrespective of the name or label given
to a cause of action by the plaintiff, a general demurrer must be overruled if
the facts as pled in the body of the complaint state some valid claim for
relief. Special demurrers are not allowed in limited jurisdiction courts. (CCP
§ 92(c).)
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. Goodman v.
Kennedy, 18 Cal.3d 335, 348 (1976). The burden is on the complainant to show
the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.) 
 
Finally, CCP section 430.41
requires that “[b]efore filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the
demurring party shall meet and confer in person or by telephone with the party
who filed the pleading that is subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining
whether an agreement can be reached that would resolve the objections to be
raised in the demurrer.” (CCP §430.41(a).) The parties are to meet and confer
at least five days before the date the responsive pleading is due. (CCP
§430.41(a)(2).) Thereafter, the demurring party shall file and serve a
declaration detailing their meet and confer efforts. (CCP §430.41(a)(3).)
 
b.    
Meet
and Confer
Defense Counsel, Steven M. Dailey filed a declaration establishing he
and Plaintiff met and conferred prior to the filing of the demurrer, but were
unable to agree on a resolution of the merits of the pleading challenge.  The demurrer is therefore ripe for
resolution.  
 
c.    
Grounds
for Demurrer
Defendants demur to the FAC, contending:

Plaintiff failed to join an indispensable party to the lawsuit;
Plaintiff is not the real party in interest to allege causes of
     action relating to the foreclosure because he is not the borrower;
Plaintiff’s FAC is barred by the doctrine of res judicata;
Plaintiff’s claims are time-barred;
The subject sale is presumed valid;
Claims attacking the sale fail absent tender of all amounts due
     under the loan;
WaMu was a bona fide encumbrancer on the property via its loan
     agreement with Plaintiff’s spouse;
Plaintiff does not allege facts to show any assignment was void;
Each of Plaintiff’s causes of action fails to state a cause of
     action.

 
d.    
Summary
of Opposition
Plaintiff opposes the
demurrer.  He argues:

Plaintiff needs to file a
     Second Amended Complaint to cure defects concerning the identification of
     the defendants to the action;
Plaintiff is the only
     damaged party by way of Defendants’ actions, and there is no indispensable
     party who needs to be joined in the suit; Plaintiff wishes to add claims
     for fraud and wrongful foreclosure to cure any defects in his claims;
Plaintiff is the real
     party in interest because he is the trustee of the trust that owns the
     subject property;
Res judicata does not
     apply in this case because Plaintiff has never sued before, and the issues
     decided in the prior litigation were different from the issues posed by
     way of this action;
There is no statute of
     limitations defense because the subject deed of trust is void, and there
     is no time bar to asserting a claim based on a void instrument;
Similarly, claims based on
     the trustee’s sale are not barred by the statute of limitations because
     the sale is void;
The presumption of valid
     sale does not operate to save Defendants from Plaintiff’s claims;
Tender is excused because
     the subject deed of trust is void on its face;
It cannot be determined,
     at the pleading stage, whether WaMu was a bona fide encumbrancer for
     value;
Plaintiff adequately
     alleged facts to support each of his causes of action pled, and if the
     Court finds he did not do so, he should be given leave to do so.

 
e.    
Summary of Reply
The reply restates the moving arguments and contends nothing in the
opposition defeats the demurrer. 
Defendants ask the Court to sustain the demurrer without leave to
amend.  
 
f.     
Request
for Judicial Notice
Defendants seek judicial notice of various documents relating to the
subject property, all of which have been recorded in the County Recorder’s
office.  They also seek judicial notice
of documents filed in two lawsuits, NC055738 and NC061515, as well as various
documents filed in bankruptcy court and the court of appeals.  The RJN is unopposed and granted.
 
g.    
 Allegations of the FAC and Facts Subject to
Judicial Notice
The crux of Plaintiff’s FAC is that a deed of trust and assignment of
deed of trust, Exhibits 3 and 4 to his FAC, are void and should be cancelled
and expunged.  
 
Exhibit 3 to the complaint is a Deed of Trust in favor of Washington
Mutual and indicating a security interest in the subject property due to a loan
taken out by “Yuri I. Lee, a married woman, as her sole and separate property.”  The document was recorded on 8/28/06.  The document is signed by Yuri I. Lee, dated
8/18/06, and notarized by Michele D. Reynoso. 
Exhibit 4 to the FAC is an assignment of the deed of trust from
Washington Mutual to Bank of America, and it is dated 11/04/10.  
 
The crux of Plaintiff’s complaint is that the deed of trust is void
because he, by virtue of his community property interest in the property, was a
co-owner of the property at the time his wife encumbered the property.  Specifically, Plaintiff alleges that he
purchased the property using a community property fund he shares with his wife
in January of 2004, and the residence was officially designated as community
property by way of a grant deed executed on 7/28/06 and conveyed into a family
trust via grant deed the same day.  FAC,
¶2.   
 
Defendants, in their demurrer, show that the 7/28/06 grant deeds upon
which Plaintiff relies were not actually recorded until 9/05/06, approximately
one week AFTER Defendants’ predecessor-in-interest recorded the purportedly
void deed of trust.  Specifically,
Defendants’ judicially noticeable documents show that, on 2/25/04, a grant deed
was recorded showing the property owned by Daniel and Yuri as husband and
wife.  Then on 8/28/06, Daniel and Yuri
conveyed the property to Yuri only as “a married woman as her sole and separate
property.”  The same day, Daniel and Yuri
recorded an interspousal grant deed, which also conveyed all interest in the
property from Daniel to Yuri.  Exhibit 5
to the RJN shows that it was not until 9/05/24 that Daniel and Yuri recorded
documents purporting to transfer interest in the property back to both of them
as spouses.  
 
h.    
Analysis
The Court finds the FAC fails to state a cause of action for numerous
reasons set forth in the demurrer.  First
and foremost, the FAC does not plead the existence of a void deed of trust
because the judicially noticeable documents show that Plaintiff’s wife was the
sole owner of the property on the date the deed of trust was recorded, and
therefore Defendants’ predecessors were under no obligation to include
Plaintiff on the loan or resultant deed of trust.  
 
The Court finds, as Defendants correctly note in their demurrer, that
Plaintiff’s spouse is a necessary party to this litigation.  She is the one who signed the loan agreement
that resulted in recording of the deed of trust.  Pursuant to CCP §389(a), therefore, she
qualifies as an indispensable party and must be named in the suit.
 
Additionally, the Cout finds Plaintiff lacks standing to challenge the
deed of trust, assignment of deed of trust, or any resulting sale.  Plaintiff was not the owner of the property,
per recorded documents, on the date of the encumbrance.  Only his wife was.  Plaintiff sets forth no facts showing why the
deed of trust was somehow void due his lack of signature on the loan if he was
not an owner of the property on the date of the loan.
 
Additionally, the Court finds this case is barred by res judicata.  Plaintiff’s spouse has filed two prior
actions against Defendants or their predecessors.  Pursuant to Hawkins v. SunTrust Bank (2016)
246 Cal.App.4th 1387, 1394, Plaintiff is in privity with his
spouse.  Pursuant to Barnes v. Homeward
Residential, Inc. (N.D. Cal. 2013) 2013 WL 5217393, Defendants are in privity
with their predecessors.  The Court has
reviewed judicially noticeable documents from NC055738 and NC061515.  In NC055738, Plaintiff’s spouse sued JP
Morgan Chase and California Reconveyance Company to enjoin a foreclosure
sale.  On 6/02/11, the Court sustained
Defendants’ demurrer without leave to amend. 
In NC061515, Plaintiff’s spouse sued US Bank and various others seeking
injunctive relief precluding a foreclosure sale.  The case was removed to the Bankruptcy Court,
which ultimately dismissed the case; notably, Plaintiff’s spouse appealed the
dismissal, and the court of appeals affirmed the dismissal.  The Court finds the two prior cases were
sufficiently similar to this case, in that both of them sought to preclude
foreclosure and this case seeks an order that the deed of trust upon which the
foreclosure was conducted is void.  
 
Finally, the Court finds the claims are time-barred.  Plaintiff’s only contention in support of his
position that the claims are not time-barred is essentially that void documents
can always be challenged without a time limitation.  However, as noted above, the Court finds
Plaintiff failed to plead facts establishing the subject documents are void,
and therefore he also failed to plead facts circumventing the statute of
limitations.  
 
i.     
Leave
to Amend
Plaintiff, in the event the demurrer is sustained, seeks an order
granting him leave to amend.  Notably, he
also seeks an order granting him leave to add additional defendants to the
action and/or additional causes of action to the action.  The Court finds this case presents purely
legal issues for determination, and leave to amend would be entirely
futile.  Leave to amend is therefore
denied.
 
3.    
Motion to Strike 
Defendants’ motion to strike is moot in light of the ruling on the
demurrer.  
 
4.    
Conclusion
The demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.  Defendants must prepare a judgment of
dismissal for processing.  
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   
 