 Case Number:  23LBCV01880    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiffs, David Cain and Red Ball Fun Zone, Inc. filed this action
against Defendants, City of Long Beach, State of California, and Department of
Public Health for damages arising out of Covid-19 closure of Plaintiffs’
business.  Plaintiffs allege Defendants
misclassified their business as a family entertainment center instead of a
fitness center, which resulted in the business remaining closed long after it
should have been reopened.
 
Plaintiffs filed their complaint on 10/03/23.  Plaintiffs filed proof of service of the
summons and complaint on the City on 12/18/23. 
Plaintiffs dismissed the State and the Department of Public Health on
2/05/24.  
 
2.    
Demurrer
a.    
Procedural History of Demurrer
Defendant scheduled a hearing on a
demurrer for 9/26/24.  At a CMC on
3/01/24, the Court advanced the hearing on the demurrer to 5/02/24.  Defendant filed and served its demurrer
papers on 4/18/24; additionally, Defendant served the papers on Plaintiff, in
pro per, but Plaintiff was represented by an attorney at the time of
service.  
 
Prior to the 5/02/24 hearing, the
Court posted a tentative ruling continuing the hearing on the demurrer to
6/04/24.  For reasons that are not clear,
Defendant took its demurrer off calendar prior to the hearing, and then
re-filed it on 4/30/24, setting it for hearing on 7/11/24.  
 
b.     Parties’
Positions
The City demurs to the complaint,
contending it is barred by Plaintiffs’ failure to file a timely government tort
claim.  
 
Plaintiffs, in opposition to the
demurrer, contend the demurrer was filed well past the statutory deadline and
should be summarily overruled.  They
contend they will be prejudiced if the demurrer is heard, because the claims
statute includes provisions by which Plaintiff could seek relief from untimely
filing, but the time to do so under those provisions has now expired.  Additionally, they contend the request for
judicial notice upon which the demurrer is based is improper.  Plaintiffs do not substantively oppose the
demurrer, instead choosing to stand solely on the procedural violations.  
 
c.     Analysis

Plaintiffs’ opposition concedes the
Court can hear and rule upon a late-filed demurrer, but contends it should not
do so because Plaintiffs would be prejudiced if the Court ruled on the
demurrer.  Plaintiffs’ opposition
misconstrues the nature of “prejudice.” 
The opposition appears to assume that, if the demurrer is overruled,
Defendant cannot raise the issue of untimely filing by way of a motion for
judgment on the pleadings, summary judgment motion, or at trial.  Plaintiffs cite no authority for this position,
and the Court knows of none.  
 
Additionally, Plaintiffs appear to
erroneously believe their obligation to seek leave to file a late claim only
arise upon receipt of Defendant’s demurrer. 
Pursuant to Gov Code §911.4(b), if a person fails to file a timely
claim, the person must file an application for leave to file a late claim
within one year of accrual of the cause of action.  Nothing in the Code suggests that the
obligation to seek leave only arises if the public entity defendant challenges
the original claim by way of a demurrer. 

 
Additionally, the Court rejects
Plaintiffs’ challenge to Defendant’s request for judicial notice.  The Court finds the tort claim is the proper
subject of judicial notice, and grants the RJN. 

 
d.     Continuance
of Hearing
While the Court is loathe to
continue the hearing a second time, the Court finds the demurrer must be ruled
upon on its merits, and therefore continues the hearing to permit Plaintiff to
substantively oppose the demurrer. 
Plaintiff is advised that, at the continued hearing, the Court will
consider the judicially noticed document, and will rule on the merits of the
claim filing challenge.  
 
The hearing is continued for one
month, to Tuesday, 8/13/24.  Supplemental
opposition, which must be substantive, and reply, are due per Code.  
 
Defendant is
ordered to give notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   