 Case Number:  23LBCV01545    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  S27  
1.    
Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Arkas,
LLC filed this action against Defendants, Elizabeth Richter and all unknown
occupants, tenants, and subtenants for unlawful detainer on 8/15/23.  Defendant filed a response to the complaint
on 9/01/23.  
 
2.    
Trial
The Court called this matter for a
non-jury trial on 12/06/08 and concluded trial on 12/08/23.  Plaintiff appeared through an attorney,
Defendant appeared and represented herself. 
The Court found in favor of Plaintiff and against Defendant.  On 12/20/23, the Court entered judgment in
favor of Plaintiff.  The judgment is for
possession only, and does not include an award of monetary damages.  
 
3.     Post-Trial
Proceedings
Defendant has
filed numerous post-trial motions and applications.  On 12/20/23, she filed an ex parte
application for order staying execution of judgment, which was denied.  
 
On 1/12/24, at
Plaintiff’s request, the Court issued a writ of possession.
 
On 2/09/24, Defendant filed a 170.6
challenge to judicial officer, which was denied.
 
On 2/16/24, Defendant filed a
motion to set aside and vacate judgment. 
It appears this is the motion on calendar today, though Defendant failed
to indicate the date for hearing on her moving papers; the motion will be
discussed further below.  
 
On 5/17/24, Defendant filed an ex
parte application to vacate judgment, which was denied.
 
On 5/28/24, Defendant filed an ex
parte application for arrest of Sam Ostayon and parties involved in fraud upon
the court, which was denied; she also filed an ex parte application to set
aside the judgment and quash any writ of possession, which was also
denied.  
 
4.     Motion
to Set Aside/Vacate Judgment CCP §663a
a.    
Grounds for Motion
As noted above, on
2/16/24, Defendant filed a motion to set aside/vacate judgment CCP §663a.  There is no notice of motion, and no hearing
date.  There is, however, a reservation
ID number, and it appears Defendant reserved the motion for hearing on
7/11/24.  The caption of the motion
indicates it is brought per U.S.C.S. Ct. App. 9th Cir., Appx R
8001(d)-1.  This is a California state
court, and state courts are not governed by federal law.  
Defendant’s motion
indicates she seeks relief because Sami Mikhael Ostayan falsely stated, under
oath, that Arkas is a non-profit company, when it is in reality a for-profit
company.  Additionally, she contends
properties subject to foreclosure are reported to the attorney general for
verification of eligible bidders, but Defendant’s property has not been
registered with the AG.  Finally, she
contends Ostayan was sworn into court under oath as MR. STEIN.
 
b.    
Summary of
Opposition
Defendant contends
the motion was not timely filed, and because the time limit for ruling on a
motion to vacate judgment has expired, the Court lacks jurisdiction to rule on
the motion.  Defendant contends the
motion is moot because the sheriff’s department completed the lock-out process
in May.  Defendant contends Plaintiff has
submitted no admissible evidence to support any of her contentions.
 
c.    
Analysis 
Per CCP §663a(b),
the time for the Court to rule on the motion has expired.  The Code makes clear that “the power of the
court to rule on a motion to set aside and vacate a judgment shall expire 75
days…after service upon the moving party by any party of written notice of
entry of judgment.”   Plaintiff served
written notice of entry of judgment on 12/21/23.  The time limit is jurisdictional.  See Advanced Building Maintenance v. State
Comp. Ins. Fund (1996) 49 Cal.App.4th 1388, 1393-94.  The motion to vacate judgment is therefore
denied.  
 
Plaintiff is
ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   