  Case Number:  22LBCV00884    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Background
Facts
Plaintiff, Debra Thompson Crowe
filed this action against Defendants, Walmart, Inc., Wal-Mart Associates, Inc.,
Sam’s West, Inc., and Maria Varela for age discrimination, disability
discrimination, failure to engage in the interactive process, failure to
provide reasonable accommodation, harassment, retaliation, failure to prevent
harassment/discrimination/retaliation, and wrongful termination.  Plaintiff’s original complaint, filed on
11/30/22, is her operative complaint.  
 
2.     Motion
for Summary Judgment/Adjudication

Evidentiary Objections

Both parties submitted evidentiary
objections with their opposition and reply papers.  Plaintiff’s objections to the Varela
Declaration are overruled.  Objection #3
to the Williford Declaration is sustained; the remaining objections are
overruled.  Defendant’s objections to
Plaintiff’s declaration are overruled. 
With the exception of Williford’s averment that he is 43 years old, the
Court has considered all evidence submitted by both parties in connection with
the motion and opposition.  
 

Law Governing
     Plaintiff’s FEHA Claims

Special rules govern allocation of
the burden of proof on motions for summary judgment in wrongful termination and
employment discrimination cases, under both federal and state law. State courts
follow the approach taken by federal courts in these cases.  Moore v. Regents of Univ. of Calif. (2016)
248 Cal.App.4th 216, 233.  These special
rules are intended to sharpen the inquiry into the elusive factual question of
intentional discrimination. The summary judgment procedure “provides a
particularly suitable means to test the sufficiency of … the defendant's
nondiscriminatory motives for the employment decision.”  Caldwell v. Paramount Unified School Dist.
(1995) 41 Cal.App.4th 189, 203.
 
But “many employment cases present
issues of intent, and motive, and hostile working environment, issues not
determinable on paper”; such cases are “rarely appropriate for disposition on
summary judgment.”  Nazir v. United
Airlines, Inc. (2009) 178 Cal.App.4th 243, 286. 

 
Because direct evidence of
discrimination is seldom available, courts use a system of shifting burdens as
an aid to the presentation and resolution of such cases both at trial and on a
motion for summary judgment.   Guz v.
Bechtel Nat'l, Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 354-355.  At trial, the initial burden is on the
employee to establish a prima facie case of discrimination. (Not much is
required, however; circumstantial evidence creating an inference of
discrimination is sufficient.)  Id. at
354-355.  
 
When the employer seeks summary
judgment, however, the initial burden rests with the employer to show that no
unlawful discrimination occurred.  CCP
§437c(p)(2); see Id. at 354-355; see also Cornell v. Berkeley Tennis Club
(2017) 18 Cal.App.5th 908, 926.  To
satisfy its initial burden, the moving party employer must either undermine an
element of the plaintiff's prima facie case by affirmatively negating it or
showing the plaintiff cannot prove it, or must provide a legitimate
nondiscriminatory reason for the adverse employment action; McGrory v. Applied
Signal Tech., Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1523.  
 
First, the employer (moving party)
must carry the burden of showing the employee's action has no merit (§
437c(p)(2)). It may do so by evidence either:
•       negating
an essential element of the employee's claim (difficult to do, because prima
facie case of discrimination is so easy to establish); or
•       showing
some legitimate, nondiscriminatory reason for the action taken against the
employee.   Caldwell, supra, at
202-203.  
 
If the employer meets this initial
burden, to avoid summary judgment the employee must produce “substantial
responsive evidence that the employer's showing was untrue or pretextual,”
thereby raising at least an inference of discrimination.  Hersant v. California Dept. of Social
Services (1997) 57 Cal.App.4th 997, 1004-1005. 
A plaintiff's “suspicions of improper motives … primarily based on
conjecture and speculation” are clearly not sufficient to raise a triable issue
of fact to withstand summary judgment. 
Kerr v. Rose (1990) 216 Cal.App.3d 1551, 1564.   Evidence showing facts inconsistent with the
employer's claimed reasons tends to prove the employer's discriminatory intent.  Martin v. Lockheed Missiles & Space Co.
(1994) 29 Cal.App.4th 1718, 1735.  
“Pretext” does not require proof that discrimination was the only reason
for the employer's action. When there are mixed motives for the employer's
action, it is enough that discriminatory intent was a substantial motivating
factor in the employer's decision to take the adverse action.  Harris v. City of Santa Monica (2013) 56
Cal.4th 203, 232.  
 
An employee may also avoid summary
judgment by attacking the credibility of the employer's declarations; i.e., by
demonstrating “such weaknesses, implausibilities, inconsistencies,
incoherencies, or contradictions in the employer's proffered legitimate reasons
for its action that a reasonable factfinder could rationally find them unworthy
of credence” and hence infer discriminatory intent.   Hersant, supra, at 1005.  However, though “disbelief of an Employer's
stated reason for a termination gives rise to a compelling inference that the
Employer had a different, unstated motivation, … it does not, without more,
reasonably give rise to an inference that the motivation was a prohibited
one.”  McGrory v. Applied Signal Technology,
Inc. (2013) 212 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1531-1532. 

 
The defendant employer may proceed
directly to provide evidence that its action was taken for a legitimate,
nondiscriminatory purpose. The burden is then on the plaintiff employee to
rebut with evidence raising an inference that intentional discrimination
occurred. Summary judgment for the employer should be granted where, “given the
strength of the employer's showing of innocent reasons, any countervailing
circumstantial evidence of discriminatory motive, even if it may technically
constitute a prima facie case, is too weak to raise a rational inference that
discrimination occurred.”   Guz, supra at
362.  
 

Undisputed Facts

Most of the facts of this action
are undisputed and straightforward. 
Plaintiff worked for Defendants in their “Member Support” role, which
was eliminated in 2021.  The Member Support
role was consolidated with the Member Frontline job code and job
description.  All associates who worked
in Member Support were offered the Member Frontline position without having to
apply for or compete for the role.  The
Member Support associates primarily worked at the front door verifying
membership cards and assisting members; the Frontline role required the front
door work, but also required the associates to work as cashiers.  
 
The Frontline role required
associates to be able to reach overhead and below the knees, including bending,
twisting, and stopping, as well as being able to move, lift, carry, and place
merchandise and supplies weighing up to 25 pounds without assistance.  While some aspects of the accommodation
process are disputed between the parties (facts 7-8), but it is undisputed that
Plaintiff submitted an accommodation request and was granted the following
accommodation:  Plaintiff may use a
stool/chair for intermittent sitting when her shift otherwise required standing
for more than two hours at a time and she should utilize the hand scanner or
otherwise request assistance with lifting items weighing more than 20 pounds
(fact 19).  
 
Plaintiff received a letter from
Sedgwick, Defendants’ third-party claims administrator, providing the foregoing
accommodations and also indicating Plaintiff should notify Sedgwick as soon as
possible if her restrictions or accommodations needs changed.  Plaintiff never submitted anything else to
Sedgwick, but she met with Varela and Williford, HR/management employees of
Defendants, on 12/02/21, and showed them a doctor’s note, dated the prior day,
indicating that, in addition to the approved accommodations, she could not
climb, squat, or kneel and had to rotate between sitting and standing/walking
every 30 minutes.  The following day, on
12/03/21, having failed to accept the Frontline position and failed to submit
anything further to Sedgwick for consideration, Plaintiff’s employment was
terminated.  
 

Initial Note re:
     Summary Adjudication

Defendants’ notice of motion
indicates Defendants seek summary adjudication of ten issues.  Defendants’ separate statement, however, only
seeks adjudication of five issues.  Defendants’
statement fails to comply with CRC 3.1350(b), which requires a party moving for
summary adjudication to state the issues to be adjudicated in the notice of
motion and repeat the issues “verbatim” in the separate statement.  The Court, therefore, will not consider the
alternative motion for summary adjudication. 
It will consider the motion for summary judgment only.  
 

Parties’ Arguments

i.             
Defendant’s Moving Arguments
Defendants contend Plaintiff cannot
prevail on her harassment claims because none of the conduct complained of
rises to the level of harassment as a matter of law.  Defendants contend Plaintiff’s complaint is
limited to disparate treatment and any attempt to raise triable issues re:
disparate impact must be rejected.  They
contend they met their moving burden to show Plaintiff’s employment was
terminated because her position was eliminated and she failed to successfully
transfer to any other available position, and Plaintiff cannot show she was
terminated due to discrimination based on age and/or disability.  They contend the failure to accommodate claim
fails because Defendants offered Plaintiff reasonable accommodations and she
never attempted to work with the accommodations and never sought additional
accommodations.  They contend they fully
engaged in the interactive process, and it was Plaintiff who failed to continue
to participate in the process.  They
contend the remaining derivative claims fail. 
Finally, they contend the claim for punitive damages fails because there
are no facts showing fraud, malice, or oppression.
 
ii.            
Plaintiff’s Opposition 
Plaintiff argues she attempted to
engage in the interactive process, and Defendants failed to engage.  She contends she could not take the Frontline
role with only the accommodations provided, and she needed additional
accommodations.  She contends reasonable
accommodations existed and were available, but were not granted because of the
failure to engage in the interactive process. 
She contends her complaint is sufficient to state a claim under both a
disparate impact and also a disparate treatment theory, and her DFEH complaint
was sufficient in this regard.  She
contends the decision to eliminate the Frontline position disparately impacted
persons over the age of 40, and this is sufficient to show age
discrimination.  She contends her
retaliation claim succeeds because she was terminated for asserting her rights
as a person with a disability.  She
contends the failure to engage in the interactive process, in and of itself,
constitutes harassment.  She contends her
derivative claims succeed because her main claims succeed.  Finally, she contends she has shown fraud,
malice, and/or oppression sufficient to support punitive damages.  
 
iii.           
Reply
Defendant, in reply, contends
Plaintiff failed to raise a triable issue of material fact and failed to
dispute that she was offered a position, with accommodations, but chose not to
accept it.  
 
iv.           
Disparate Impact
Defendants, in their moving papers,
contend Plaintiff cannot rely on a disparate impact (as opposed to disparate
treatment) theory to defeat summary judgment because (a) she did not allege
disparate impact in her DFEH claim, and (b) she did not allege disparate impact
in her complaint in this action. 
Plaintiff, in opposition, contends she adequately pled disparate impact
and treatment in her DFEH claim and her complaint, and she can show disparate
impact.  Defendants fail to address the
issue in reply.
 
Plaintiff establishes, in
opposition to the motion, that DFEH claims must be read broadly and can be used
to support any legal theory reasonably related to the claim.  Plaintiff fails, however, to establish that
she pled disparate impact, as opposed to disparate treatment, discrimination in
her complaint.  While her claim could
arguably be so read, her complaint in this action does not mention anything
about disparate impact.  Plaintiff
concedes her complaint is “primarily” based on disparate treatment, but argues
it includes factual allegations that would support disparate impact.  However, those factual allegations, according
to the opposition, include Plaintiff’s own work history, which is clearly
related to her claim of disparate treatment and does not tend to show or allege
disparate impact.  She contends the
complaint goes on to highlight a lack of accommodation and the ultimatum given
to accept the role or accept severance, which is a pattern that
disproportionately affected older works. 
She fails, however, to cite to anything in her complaint that referenced
a “pattern”; indeed, her complaint clearly only details facts relating to her
own claim.  Finally, she cites to
discovery showing that the policies had a disparate impact on older
workers.  Discovery, however, is not a
complaint.  She did not include these
allegations in her complaint, which serves as the outer measure of materiality
in ruling on a summary judgment motion. 
A defendant moving for summary judgment need not refute liability on
some theoretical possibility not included in the pleadings.  Johnson v. Raytheon Co., Inc. (2019) 33
Cal.App.5th 617, 636.
 
Thus, although Defendants did not
address this argument in reply, the Court finds Plaintiff can proceed only on a
disparate treatment, and not a disparate impact, theory of recovery.  
 
v.            
Interactive Process 
The remainder of Plaintiff’s claims
rise and fall based on the issue of whether Defendants adequately engaged in
the interactive process.  The facts in
this regard are not in dispute; what the parties disagree on is the law.  Defendants showed that their third-party
administrator, Sedgwick, granted Plaintiff the accommodations she originally
sought, and told her to communicate with it if other accommodations became
necessary.  Plaintiff did not do so.  She did, however, speak to persons in HR and
management about her need for additional accommodations; they did not attempt
to resolve her request, instead terminating her based on her failure to seek
those accommodations through Sedgwick.
 
Defendants’ argument in this regard
is as follows:
Moreover, an employer may require
that its employees comply with its usual and customary policies for requesting
leave. Shelton v. Boeing Co., 702 F. App’x 567, 568 (9th Cir. 2017) (FMLA
requires employees to comply with employer’s usual and customary policies for
requesting leave), citing Sanders v. City of Newport, 657 F.3d 772, 777 (9th
Cir. 2011) and 29 C.F.R. § 825.303(c). Indeed, an employer is entitled to
terminate an employee who fails to comply with its usual and customary policies
for requesting leave. Preciado v. Casa Colina Hosp. for Rehabilitative
Medicine, No. B193019, 2007 WL 2137506, at *3-4 (Cal. Ct. App. July 26, 2007).
 
Plaintiff, on the contrary,
contends the law is as follows:
However, a request for reasonable
accommodation made to any supervisor is conclusively presumed to have been made
to the employer. Cal. Civ. Code § 2332; Calif. Fair Empt.& Hous. Com’n v.
Gemini Aluminum Corp. (2004) 122 Cal. App. 4th 1004, 1015; Columbia Pictures
Corp. v. DeToth (1940) 87 Cal.App.2d 620, 630.
 
The Court finds in Plaintiff’s
favor on this issue.  Defendants cited
two federal cases and an unpublished California case.  All three cases concerned requests for leave
under FMLA and/or CFRA.  None of the
cases involved the obligation to engage in the interactive process.  Plaintiff’s cited cases, on the contrary, are
directly on point and are state law authorities.  
 
Notably, Defendants failed to
address this issue in reply.  There are
clearly triable issues of material fact concerning whether Plaintiff attempted
to engage in the good faith process with Varela and Williford, neither of whom
attempted to determine if she could be accommodated.  The motion for summary judgment is therefore
denied.  
 

Conclusion

There are triable issues of
material fact concerning whether Plaintiff sought a reasonable accommodation
and Defendants failed to engage in the interactive process.  The motion for summary judgment is therefore
denied.  As noted above, the alternative
motion for summary adjudication is not procedurally proper and is therefore
also denied.  
 
Defendants are ordered to give
notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative.  If
the parties do not submit on the tentative, they should arrange to appear
remotely.