 Case Number:  23LBCV02216    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  S27 Plaintiff filed
this motion to deem RFAs admitted on 5/21/24, setting it for hearing on
7/11/24.  On 6/27/24, Defendant filed
timely opposition to the motion, contending (a) the hearing on the motion
should be continued because the handling attorney on the case recently took a
leave of absence and has not been in communication with the firm, such that the
firm cannot discuss the case with the attorney, and (b) Plaintiff did not
properly serve Defendant with the RFAs.  
 
Any reply to the
opposition was due on or before 7/03/24. 
The Court did not receive timely reply papers and will not consider
late-filed reply papers.  In light of the
circumstances, the Court continues the hearing on the motion to 9/03/24 at 8:30
a.m., to be heard concurrently with Plaintiff’s pending motion to compel
responses to RPDs.  
 
The Court
encourages the parties to attempt to resolve issues presented by the motions
without the need for the 9/03/24 hearing date. 
The Court notes that Defense Counsel lists three attorneys on the
opposition papers, and that the Clark Hill law firm website indicates the firm
has 700 attorneys.  Defense Counsel must
act swiftly to communicate with Defendant and respond to the subject discovery
to avoid imposition of adverse discovery orders and/or sanctions.  
 
Plaintiff is
ordered to give notice.
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   