 Case Number:  19STCV42761    Hearing Date:   March 14, 2024    Dept:  48  
                                                                                                   
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



HYUNG KOO, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
CENTRAL FITNESS PARTNERS, INC., et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 19STCV42761
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING IN PART MOTION
  TO COMPEL DEPOSITION OF NON-PARTY WITNESS; DENYING MOTION FOR PROTECTIVE ORDER
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
March 14, 2024



 
On
November 27, 2019, Plaintiff Hyung Koo filed this personal injury action.  The Complaint alleges that on November 8, 2019,
Plaintiff was severely injured at Wilfit Sports Club when a cable crossover machine
toppled over on him.
On
January 4, 2024, Plaintiff served a subpoena for the January 18, 2024 deposition
of non-party Koen “Ken” Kim.  (Compel Motion,
Ex. 1.)
On
January 16, 2024, Kim filed a motion for protective order because participating
in a deposition would be an undue burden at this time due to medical reasons.  (See also Compel Opposition.)
Kim
did not appear for deposition, and a certificate of non-appearance was taken.  (Compel Motion, Ex. 3.)
On
January 31, 2024, Plaintiff filed a motion to compel Kim’s deposition.  In addition to Kim being compelled to appear for
deposition, Plaintiff seeks an order to show cause why Kim should not be held in
contempt and an order providing a “failure to appear” notice informing Kim that
the failure to appear in response to the court order compelling him to appear for
deposition may later result in the issuance of an arrest warrant.
A
party may move to compel compliance with a subpoena that requires the attendance
of a non-party witness.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1987.1.)  Upon a showing of good cause,
the Court may issue a protective order to protect a party or deponent from unwarranted
annoyance, embarrassment, oppression, or undue burden and expense.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b).)  The protective order may include directions that
the deposition not be taken, be taken at a different time or place, be taken on
certain specified terms and conditions, be taken by written instead of oral examination,
or that the scope be limited to certain matters.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.420, subd. (b).)  “[T]he burden is on the party seeking the protective
order to show good cause for whatever order is sought.”  (Fairmont Ins. Co. v. Superior Court (2000)
22 Cal.4th 245, 255.)
Kim’s
opposition and his motion for a protective order rely on two notes from medical
providers: Dr. Thomas Curtis and Nurse Keumhee Byeon.
On
August 2, 2023, Kim produced a note from Dr. Thomas Curtis dated August 1, 2023,
which recommended that Kim’s deposition be postponed for 4 to 6 months “because
he appears too anxious and depressed with impaired concentration and cognition to
provide accurate testimony and may break down with a panic attack” and increase
his depression, worsening his medical condition.  (PO Motion at p. 5 & Ex. B.)
Plaintiff
took Dr. Curtis’s deposition on September 7, 2023.  (Compel Motion, Ex. 7.)  Dr. Curtis testified that his “practice was closed
approximately two months ago [in July 2023]. 
There is a skeleton staff still working. 
But basically the practice is closed, and I’m essentially retired.”  (Id. at p. 10.)  Dr. Curtis saw Kim via telehealth appointment
on August 1, 2023.  (Id. at p. 18.)  He had no future appointment with Kim, and as
of the date of the deposition, he did not know if Kim’s anxiety and depression would
still result in impaired concentration.  (Id.
at pp. 25, 29.)  Dr. Curtis confirmed that
he was not saying that Kim lacks the mental capacity to testify or was suffering
from some sort of brain injury that prevented him from giving competent testimony.  (Id. at p. 31.)
The
January 2024 deposition subpoena was issued 5 months after Dr. Curtis’s note—within
the time frame that Dr. Curtis recommended. 
These motions are being heard over 7 months after the note.  Accordingly, this note—if it provided a valid
basis for postponing the deposition, which the Court need not decide now—no longer
provides a basis for Kim to further delay his deposition.
On
December 19, 2023, Kim produced a December 8, 2023 note from Nurse Keumhee Byeon,
a psychiatric mental health nurse practitioner, stating that Kim “is currently experiencing
severe symptoms of depression, anxiety, and panic attacks.  These conditions have significantly impacted his
ability to engage in daily activities, and attending court proceedings would exacerbate
his mental health challenges.  It is my professional
opinion that attending the court hearing at this time would not be in the best interest
of his mental health.”  (PO Motion at p. 5
& Ex. D; Compel Motion, Ex. 5.)  As Plaintiff
notes, Nurse Byeon “is not a medical doctor, is not a licensed psychologist, and
is not a licensed psychiatrist.”  (Compel
Motion at p. 12.)
Considering
both motions and the evidence submitted, the Court finds that Kim’s deposition should
be compelled, and Kim has not met his burden of showing that a protective order
is necessary.
In
reply, Kim argues that the requested testimony is cumulative, and “the undue burden,
and intrusiveness of this deposition due to the mental and medical conditions of
Non-Party Mr. Kim is not outweighed by plaintiff’s quest for testimony which would
be unreasonably cumulative or duplicative of the information already known or obtainable
from less intrusive sources.”  (PO Reply at
pp. 3-4.)  This was not a ground raised in
his original motion.
Koen
“Ken” Kim’s motion for a protective order is DENIED.
Plaintiff’s
motion to compel Kim’s deposition is GRANTED IN PART.  Koen “Ken” Kim is ordered to appear for deposition
within 30 days.  Plaintiff’s requests for
additional orders are denied.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 14th day of March 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 