 Case Number:  23STCV22308    Hearing Date:   July 15, 2024    Dept:  61 OSCAR QUINTERO, et al. vs FORD MOTOR COMPANY, et al.TENTATIVEDefendant Ford Motor Company’s Motion for Protective Order is GRANTED in part, and the LASC Model Protective Order — Confidential Designation Only, is entered in this case, with necessary changes for the identity of the parties, with the modification to paragraph 7g that no disclosure shall be made to an outside expert or consultant who is currently employed by an automobile manufacturer competitor of Ford. The motion is otherwise DENIED.Defendant to give notice.DISCUSSIONCCP section 2031.060, subdivisions (b) and (c) state:(b) The court, for good cause shown, may make any order that justice requires to protect any party or other person from unwarranted annoyance, embarrassment, or oppression, or undue burden and expense. This protective order may include, but is not limited to, one or more of the following directions:(1) That all or some of the items or categories of items in the demand need not be produced or made available at all.(2) That the time specified in Section 2030.260 to respond to the set of demands, or to a particular item or category in the set, be extended.(3) That the place of production be other than that specified in the demand.(4) That the inspection, copying, testing, or sampling be made only on specified terms and conditions.(5) That a trade secret or other confidential research, development, or commercial information not be disclosed, or be disclosed only to specified persons or only in a specified way.(6) That the items produced be sealed and thereafter opened only on order of the court.(c) The party or affected person who seeks a protective order regarding the production, inspection, copying, testing, or sampling of electronically stored information on the basis that the information is from a source that is not reasonably accessible because of undue burden or expense shall bear the burden of demonstrating that the information is from a source that is not reasonably accessible because of undue burden or expense.Defendant Ford Motor Company (Defendant) seeks a protective order to guard what it claims to be confidential, trade secret materials regarding its business and private information regarding its customers. (Motion at p. 3.) Defendant argues that it and Plaintiffs Oscar and Ivan Quintero (Plaintiffs) have agreed in principle to a protective order modeled on the LASC Model Protective Order — Confidential Designation, but that Plaintiffs have refused to agree to certain modifications which his counsel has agreed to in other, similar cases. These modifications are:· The addition of a requirement that “affiliated attorneys” already permitted to access confidential documents be narrowed to attorneys “in the same firm”;· The addition of a requirement that office personnel with access to Defendant’s documents agree in writing to be bound by the protective order;· The addition of videographers, litigation support companies, court reporters, and non-attorney consultants in the list of people entitled to review confidential documents, provided non-attorney experts and consultants not be employed by competitors of Defendant;· The removal of mock-jurors from the class of persons authorized to access confidential documents;(Motion at pp. 7–8.)Plaintiffs in opposition contend that Defendant in other cases has agreed to be bound by the model protective order without the provisions it seeks in the present case. (Opposition at pp. 3–4.) Plaintiffs argue that Defendant has not promptly moved for the protective order since it first responded to requests for production in January 2024. (Opposition at pp. 2–3.) Plaintiffs argue that the proposed limitation on attorneys who can review confidential documents risks impinging on the access of co-counsel from other firms; that the requirement of all firm staff to individually agree in writing to be bound by the protective order is needless and burdensome; that the proposed limitation on mock jurors is unreasonable; that the limitation on attorney access to electronic documents is unreasonable and redundant with other provisions of the existing order; and finally that the requirement of return of all confidential materials impinges on the right of Plaintiffs to maintain a complete file. (Opposition at pp. 4–8.)The present motion is timely. Although Plaintiffs served document requests in December 2023, and Defendant served responses in January, the parties continued to meet and confer on the protective order through April 2024. (Moawad Decl. Exhs. B, C.) The present motion, filed in May 2024, was reasonably prompt.Good cause supports the existence of a protective order in this case. Courts must act to protect trade secrets by reasonable means including protective orders, in camera hearings, sealing records and restricting disclosure. (Civil Code § 3426.5; Hypertouch, Inc. v. Superior Court (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1527, 1555 n. 16.) A “trade secret” is “information, including a formula, pattern, compilation, program, device, method, technique, or process, that: (1) [d]erives independent economic value . . . from not being generally known to the public or to other persons who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use; and (2) [i]s the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its secrecy.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 3426.1, subd. (d).)The party asserting trade-secret objections has the burden to establish their existence and operation. (Bridgestone/Firestone, Inc. v. Superior Court (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1384, 1390.) “Some factors to be considered in determining whether given information is one's trade secret are: (1) the extent to which the information is known outside of his business; (2) the extent to which it is known by employees and others involved in his business; (3) the extent of measures taken by him to guard the secrecy of the information; (4) the value of the information to him and to his competitors; (5) the amount of effort or money expended by him in developing the information; (6) the ease or difficulty with which the information could be properly acquired or duplicated by others.” (Uribe v. Howie (1971) 19 Cal.App.3d 194, 208.)Defendant has met its burden to establish good cause for the issuance of a protective order. The Doss declaration outlines how Defendant’s warranty and consumer complaint policies and procedures are confidentially maintained by Defendant, how Defendant invested resources in their development, and the injury that would ensue from competitors learning and potentially adopting the same policies for themselves. (Doss Decl. ¶¶ 7–12.)However, while Defendant has demonstrated good cause for a protective order, this does not resolve the propriety of their proposed protective measures. Here, Defendant has not made an adequate case for the additional protective measures that it seeks, because it has not made a persuasive case for the inadequacy of the measures contained in the model protective order.Defendant’s propose to limit attorney access to confidential documents is burdensome and unsupported. Attorney access to such documents is already limited to “Attorneys of record in the Proceeding and their affiliated attorneys” in the model protective order. (Moawad Decl. Exh. E [redlined proposed protective order].) Plaintiffs correctly note that such a limitation would limit the ability of co-counsel associated into this case to review the documents. (Opposition at p. 3.) Defendant in reply argues that co-counsel are definitionally counsel of record, but offers no authority to support this contention, and none but speculative reasons to support the contention that such a restriction is necessary.Nor has Defendant presented good cause for the additional requirement that all firm staff with access to the documents agree in writing to be bound by the protective order. Per the order itself, the Plaintiffs’ counsel and their firm are bound by the protective order. (Moawad Decl. Exh. E.) Plaintiffs’ counsel notes that because all litigation staff have access to all case files, every employee would be required to sign every protective order containing such a provision. (Opposition at pp. 5–6.)Nor does Defendant demonstrate good cause for the limitation on mock jury participants. Although Defendant argues that such a prohibition is necessary because such participants cannot be tracked, these participants are already required to offer written agreements to be bound by the protective order, including their name, address, and phone number. (See LASC Model Protective Order, Exh. A.) Defendant’s contention that it lacks the ability “to confirm the accuracy of that contact information if a problem arises” is speculative. (Reply at p. 4.)Defendant’s proposed limitation on the online posting of confidential documents for sale is redundant of restrictions already contained in the model protective order. The model order already states:Confidential Materials shall be used by the persons receiving them only for the purposes of preparing for, conducting, participating in the conduct of, and/or prosecuting and/or defending the Proceeding, and not for any business or other purpose whatsoever.(Moawad Decl. Exh. E.) Defendant does not explain why the further language is necessary.Finally, Defendant does not explain the necessity of the return or destruction of all documents, beyond the provisions for the maintenance of those documents already provided for in the model protective order. Defendant argues that failing to require their removal from client files would allow Plaintiff’s counsel to keep these documents “in perpetuity.” (Opposition at p. 5.) But Defendant has not made the case for any competitive harm from the materials’ maintenance in counsel’s files over the long term. The extant model protective order already provides options for the disposition of confidential materials at the close of a case, such as counsel’s maintenance of copies in continuing compliance with the order, or the filing of a motion with the court after the conclusion of the case to seek their appropriate disposition. (See LASC Model Protective Order, ¶ 21.)Defendant does, however, present one modification supported by good cause: the proposed prohibition on granting confidential access to consultants or experts “currently employed by an automobile manufacturer competitor of Ford.” (Moawad Decl. Exh. E.) In such a case, the strictures of the protective order would likely be inadequate to protect Defendant’s interest in the information.The motion for protective order is therefore GRANTED in part, and the LASC Model Protective Order — Confidential Designation Only, is entered in this case, with necessary changes for the identity of the parties, with the modification to paragraph 7g that no disclosure shall be made to an outside expert or consultant who is currently employed by an automobile manufacturer competitor of Ford.