  Case Number:  23STCP04483    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior
  Court of California
County of
  Los Angeles




 
Studio City Residents Association, et al.,


 
 
 
Petitioners,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCP04483
 




v.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




City of Los Angeles,


 
Respondent.
 


 


 




 


 


 


 




 
Save Weddington Inc.,
 
v.
 
City of Los Angeles,


 
 
Petitioner,
 
 
 
Respondent.
 


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCP04501




 
Harvard-Westlake School, County of Los Angeles, et al.,


 
 
 
 
Real Parties in Interest.
 
 


 
 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: December 10, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter 
Petitions for Writ of Mandate
Moving Parties:
Petitioners Studio City Residents Association, Save Los Angeles River Open
Space, and Save Weddington, Inc.,
Responding Parties: Respondent
City of Los Angeles; Real Parties in Interest Harvard-Westlake School and 4141
Whitsett LLC
 
T/R:     THE PETITIONS FOR WRIT OF MANDATE BY STUDIO CITY RESIDENTS ASSOCIATION,
SAVE LA RIVER OPEN SPACE, AND SAVE WEDDINGTON, INC., ARE DENIED.
 
PETITIONER STUDIO
CITY RESIDENTS ASSOCIATION TO NOTICE. 
 
Petitioners claim in
these lawsuits that the City of Los Angeles failed to comply with the
California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA) in approving the Harvard-Westlake
River Park Project. The Court finds that
the City complied with CEQA. The environmental impact report properly analyzed
air quality, greenhouse gas, noise,
aesthetic, and emergency access impacts of the project, as well as possible wildlife disruption, the
impact on tribal cultural resources, and the potential health effects of
artificial turf. It properly addressed issues concerning tree replacement,
concluding that replacing invasive Mexican fan palms with native species would
result in a 36% net increase in trees, enhance canopy coverage and carbon
sequestration, and mitigate urban heat island effects. The report adequately
described the project, and properly analyzed a reasonable range of alternatives
to achieve Harvard-Westlake’s objective of expanding its athletic and
recreational facilities, while mitigating potentially significant environmental
impacts.  
 
The City provided a
fair hearing, in accordance with due process principles. While the City
Planning Commission President and Vice President could have more fully
disclosed their relationships to Harvard-Westlake, Petitioners have not shown bias,
or that the possible appearance of bias requires invalidating the project’s
approval. The record demonstrates that the project was approved
on its merits. After the CPC’s decision the City Council conducted its own, independent
review. The decision-making process included public hearings, allowing
Petitioners and other stakeholders to provide comments, submit evidence, and
raise objections. The Court finds that substantial evidence in the
administrative record supports the project’s approval.
            
I.   
BACKGROUND
The
Harvard-Westlake River Park Project includes an 80,249-square-foot gymnasium, a
52-meter pool, artificial turf athletic fields, tennis courts, a below-grade
parking structure, and a stormwater reuse system. The Project includes
landscaped pathways and open space that will be available to the public;
members of the community also will have access to the sports facilities. 
The
Project site is adjacent to the Los Angeles River and the Zev Yaroslavsky Los
Angeles River Greenway. Previously located at the site was Studio City Golf
& Tennis, or Weddington Golf & Tennis. For more than 60 years the site featured
golf and tennis facilities, open to public recreational use.  
Area
residents and other stakeholders raised concerns about the Project’s potential environmental
impacts, including tree canopy loss, nighttime lighting, wildlife disruption,
noise, and use of artificial turf; these concerns resulted in some
modifications to the Project.  The City
of Los Angeles’s three-years-long evaluation of the environmental issues, required
by the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA), culminated in an
Environmental Impact Report (EIR) totaling more than 22,000 pages. The City
Planning Commission approved the project on August 24, 2023. Upon appeal by Petitioners
to the City Council, the Council’s Planning and Land Use Management Committee subsequently
recommended that the appeal be denied, and the Project be approved. On November
14, 2023, the City Council unanimously approved the Project and certified the
EIR. 
Petitioners
filed the writ petitions at issue here on December 13 and 14, 2023. On February
20, 2024, the Court related the two cases, and has adjudicated them together. 
On April 29, 2024, the Court denied Petitioners’
joint motion for a preliminary injunction to stop site preparation and
construction activities until the Court decided the merits of their CEQA
claims.
II.   
REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
 
Petitioners’ Request
for Judicial Notice is GRANTED as to Exhibits 1-7, pursuant to Evidence Code
section 452, subdivisions (b), (c), and (h). 

 
Petitioners’
Supplemental Request for Judicial Notice is GRANTED as to Exhibits 8-9,
pursuant to Evidence Code § 452, subdivisions (c) and (h).  
 
III.   
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS
 
Petitioners object to
the Declaration of James DeMattte on the basis that the Declaration and its
Exhibit 1 are irrelevant, outside-the-record evidence in a case that must be
decided on an administrative record.  Exhibit
1 consists of photographs of the Project site, purportedly taken in September
and October 2024.  Petitioners also argue
that the DeMatte declaration makes statements regarding completed tree removal,
ongoing grading, and adherence to construction protocols which are irrelevant
to the Court’s review of whether the City’s CEQA compliance at the time of
approval was adequate.  Since neither the
Declaration nor Exhibit 1 is in the administrative record, the Court finds that
the Declaration and its exhibits are inadmissible; it sustains Petitioners’
evidentiary objections. 
 
IV.   
STANDARD OF REVIEW
 
A party may seek to set aside an agency decision by petitioning for a
writ of administrative mandamus (Code Civ. Proc. § 1094.5) or traditional
mandamus (Code Civ. Proc., § 1085).  A
petition for administrative mandamus is appropriate when the party seeks review
of a “determination, finding, or decision of a public agency, made as a result
of a proceeding in which by law a hearing is required to be given, evidence is
required to be taken and discretion in the determination of facts is vested in
a public agency, on the grounds of noncompliance with [CEQA].” (Pub. Resources
Code § 21168.)
 
In an action challenging an agency’s decision under CEQA, the trial court
reviews the agency’s decision for a prejudicial abuse of discretion. (PRC §
21168.5.) “Abuse of discretion is established if the agency has not proceeded
in a manner required by law or if the determination or decision is not
supported by substantial evidence.” (Ibid.; see also Vineyard
Area Citizens for Responsible Growth, Inc. v. City of Rancho Cordova (2007)
40 Cal.4th 412, 435.) “The
standard of review in administrative mandate proceedings is well-settled:
whether the agency acted without or in excess of jurisdiction, whether there
was a fair hearing, and whether there was a prejudicial abuse of discretion. An
abuse of discretion occurs when the agency did not proceed in the manner
required by law, its order or decision is not supported by the findings, or the
findings are not supported by the evidence. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1094.5, subd.
(b).)” (Hubbard v. California Coastal Com. (2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 119,
135.) The court reviews “the administrative record to determine whether the
Agency’s findings are supported by substantial evidence.  (Id.) 

 
In actions challenging an agency’s factual determinations, substantial
evidence is defined as “enough relevant evidence and reasonable inferences from
this information that a fair argument can be made to support a conclusion, even
though other conclusions might also be reached.” (14 CCR § 15384(a).) “A court
may not set aside an agency’s approval of an EIR on the ground that an opposite
conclusion would have been equally or more reasonable.” (Laurel Heights
Improvement Association v. Regents of the University of California (1988)
47 Cal.3d 376, 393.) “The reviewing court must resolve reasonable doubts in
favor of the administrative finding and decision.” (Ibid.)
 
Challenges to an agency’s failure to proceed in a manner required by CEQA
are subject to a less deferential standard than challenges to an agency’s
factual conclusions.  (Vineyard, supra,
40 Cal.4th at 435.) In reviewing these claims, the Court must “determine de
novo whether the agency has employed the correct procedures.” (Ibid.; see
Dry Creek Citizens Coalition v. County of Tulare (1999) 70 Cal.App.4th
20, 26.)  “When the determination of an
administrative agency’s jurisdiction involves a question of statutory
interpretation, ‘the issue of whether the agency proceeded in excess of its
jurisdiction is a question of law.’ … ‘[A] court does not ... defer to an
agency’s view when deciding whether a regulation lies within the scope of the
authority delegated by the Legislature.’” (Security National Guaranty, Inc.,
supra, 159 Cal.App.4th at 414.) “The rules of statutory construction, which
are equally applicable to administrative regulations, are also well-settled.
The fundamental rule is to ascertain the Legislature’s intent in order to give
effect to the purpose of the law.” (Hubbard v. California Coastal Com.
(2019) 38 Cal.App.5th 119, 135.) When interpreting a statute, the words should
be given their ordinary meaning without rendering any part of the language
unnecessary. (Id.) The interpretation must consider the context,
purpose, and intent of the legislature and aim for a practical, common-sense
understanding that avoids absurd outcomes. (Id.) The “interpretation
should be practical, not technical, and should also result in wise policy, not
mischief or absurdity.” (Id.) Statutes should be interpreted within the
broader legal framework to maintain harmony. (Id.) If the statutory
language is clear, it should not be altered.  (Id. at 136.) “If, however, there is
more than one reasonable interpretation of a statute, then it is ambiguous.” (Id.)
In such a case, the court may consider secondary factors like legislative
history, public policy, and the broader circumstances surrounding the statute’s
enactment to determine its meaning. (Id.) 
 
An agency is presumed to have regularly performed its official duties. (Evid.
Code § 664.) The petitioner bears the burden of proof to demonstrate, by
citation to the administrative record, that the EIR is legally inadequate, and
that the agency abused its discretion in certifying it. (See South Orange
County Wastewater Authority v. City of Dana Point (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th
1604, 1612; Cherry Valley Pass Acres and Neighbors v. City of Beaumont
(2010) 190 Cal.App.4th 316, 327-28.)
 
V.   
ANALYSIS
 
A.  
Tree Removal and Excavation Issues Are
Not Moot
 
Real Parties argue
that several of Petitioners’ claims, including those related to tree removal
and excavation, are moot because the activities in question already have been
completed or are nearing completion, with no evidence of the impacts
Petitioners allege. The Court finds that these claims are not moot. The Court still
may impose remedies to address ongoing environmental impacts, procedural
deficiencies, and operational concerns regarding tree removal and excavation.  
 
B.  
The City Complied With CEQA in
Approving the Project
 
1.   
Aesthetic Impacts
 
Petitioners argue that
the EIR inadequately analyzed and mitigated the Project’s significant impacts
on scenic vistas by denying the presence of scenic vistas and focusing on a
lack of panoramic views. The Project removes 240 trees visible from public
rights of way and replaces them with athletic facilities, 10-foot security
walls, and 80-foot light poles, eliminating scenic resources. The Initial Study
described scenic views from the north as dominated by “existing mature trees”
and vegetation, but it did not analyze the impacts of losing these features. Petitioners
emphasize that the site’s scenic importance was raised during scoping. While
the EIR claims no significant impact due to limited panoramic views, Petitioners
contend this overlooks key public vistas. Petitioners highlight that the
Project’s 22 light poles, each 80 feet tall, conflict with the City’s 30-foot
height limit and land use plan designations that protect visual quality. Petitioners
also assert that the City ignored temporary construction impacts, despite a
three-year construction period and removal of screening vegetation.  
 
Petitioners assert
the EIR failed to provide comparative visual renderings of the Project site
before and after development since the simulations included in the EIR depict
only the proposed Project, often from misleading angles, and rely on
speculative assumptions about mature vegetation that will not exist initially, preventing
an adequate understanding of visual impacts. Petitioners claim the EIR uses
unrealistic angles for its visual simulations, such as views from above the
Project or the middle of the LA River, making buildings appear less obtrusive
than they are. For example, the renderings suggest buildings will be invisible
from the street, which Petitioners argue is untrue.  
 
The Initial Study
concluded that potential impacts to scenic vistas and resources would not be
significant. The City found that the site lacks meaningful scenic vistas,
scenic resources, or significant visual quality due to urban development,
trees, and elevation differences. The Court finds that the analysis in the
Initial Study is entitled to substantial deference. Although Petitioners claim
the EIR ignored smaller impacts, the EIR addressed both focal and panoramic
vistas, concluding neither exists on the site.  The Initial Study concluded that the installed
light poles would not affect scenic resources because they are narrow, spaced
apart, and shorter than existing golf course poles. The City determined that
visual impacts in urban areas were not significant under its thresholds due to
construction. And the EIR included renderings depicting future site conditions
and project features, including site entrances, athletic facilities, trails,
public access improvements, and retained features like the clubhouse.    
 
The Court finds that
the City sufficiently analyzed aesthetic impacts, including scenic resources,
construction impacts, and renderings. 
 
2.   
Air Quality Impacts
 
Petitioners argue
that the EIR provides a misleading and inconsistent analysis of
construction-related emissions by failing to aggregate on-road and off-road
emissions, making it impossible for decision-makers and the public to
understand the Project’s true air quality impacts. For example, Table IV.B-8 in
the EIR reports total mitigated construction emissions that are lower than the
off-road emissions alone, which Petitioners claim is a mathematical
impossibility. Petitioners point to expert analysis from SWAPE which shows
discrepancies between the emissions values in the DEIR and the California
Emissions Estimator Model (CalEEMod) modeling outputs, allegedly revealing
errors in the reported maximum mitigated regional construction emissions. Petitioners
state the EIR failed to address these issues adequately, and incorrectly
claimed that SWAPE used unmitigated data, despite the CalEEMod outputs showing
mitigated data.  
 
Petitioners also
argue that the EIR failed to analyze risks related to Valley Fever, a fungal
illness caused by airborne spores from disturbed soil. Petitioners claim that Valley
Fever cases have risen in Los Angeles, and the Project’s soil disturbance
increases exposure risk. Petitioners submitted expert testimony highlighting
the potential for Valley Fever spore transmission in the Project area, but the
EIR dismissed these concerns, finding that the Project site’s risk was low
because spores are commonly found in the Antelope Valley, not near the Project
site. Petitioners state that the City failed to account for spores documented
in the region around the site and relied on the unlikely occurrence of
Northridge Earthquake-scale dust clouds to deny significant impacts, without
evidence that such large dust clouds are necessary to pose risks.  
 
In opposition, Real
Parties argue that the City’s experts analyzed air pollutants associated with
the Project’s construction and operational activities using the CalEEMod, and
the EIR addressed and refuted criticisms from Petitioners’ expert, SWAPE,
demonstrating that SWAPE’s report contained methodological flaws and incorrect
assumptions. The EIR found that construction emissions would be less than
significant with the implementation of mitigation measures, specifically
Mitigation Measure AQ-MM-1, and addressed all purported issues raised by
SWAPE.    
 
The Court finds that
the City’s rejection of SWAPE’s claims was within its discretion. Disagreements
among experts do not render an EIR inadequate.  (Chico Advocates for a Responsible Economy
v. City of Chico (2019) 40 Cal.App.5th 839, 851.)
 
As to Valley Fever impacts,
the City consulted data from the Los Angeles County Department of Public
Health, concluding that the fungus causing Valley Fever is not commonly found
in the area. The City also found that grading activities would not produce dust
emissions comparable to conditions that have historically caused Valley Fever
outbreaks (such as landslides during the Northridge earthquake). The Project
includes mitigation measures to address environmental and health concerns: (1) compliance
with South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) Rule 403 to control
fugitive dust, such as watering unpaved areas; (2) providing respirators to
workers upon request to mitigate potential health risks; (3) suspension of construction
activities during windy conditions to prevent airborne dispersal of dust and
particles; and (4) implementation of additional soil stabilization and
precautionary measures to minimize the potential transport of fungal spores.  
 
The Court finds that
the EIR’s air quality analysis is supported by substantial evidence and
adequately addressed potential construction emissions and Valley Fever impacts.
The EIR evaluated fugitive dust, construction-related emissions, and compliance
with applicable SCAQMD regulations, including Rule 403 for dust control. It
also included mitigation measures such as soil stabilization, respirators for
workers upon request, and suspension of construction during high winds, all of
which were enforceable through the Mitigation Monitoring Program. The EIR
reasonably concluded that the Project’s adherence to these measures would
minimize risks of Valley Fever, citing expert reviews and the absence of
documented Valley Fever spores in the area.  
 
3.   
Artificial Turf Impacts
 
Petitioners argue that
the EIR fails to substantiate its conclusion that the use of approximately
200,000 square feet of artificial turf on athletic fields will not result in
significant health or safety hazards. They point to evidence demonstrating that
artificial turf can reach dangerously high surface temperatures, exceeding
those of natural grass, with some studies recording temperatures as high as
156°F. While the EIR acknowledges the potential for thermal injuries,
Petitioners state that it fails to propose adequate mitigation measures or
enforceable conditions to protect users.    
 
Petitioners also argue
that the EIR inadequately addresses the environmental and health risks
associated with per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS) used in artificial
turf. PFAS are highly toxic, persistent chemicals linked to cancer, hormone
disruption, and other severe health issues. Petitioners state the EIR
acknowledges PFAS are used in the manufacturing of artificial turf but does not
analyze their potential leaching or environmental impacts. Petitioners argue
the EIR fails to use the required metric—total organic fluorine—to assess PFAS
levels in artificial turf, as mandated by Assembly Bill 1423. Petitioners point
to studies in the record that demonstrate that artificial turf emits PFAS over
time, which can contaminate nearby water sources, including the Los Angeles
River, via runoff from impervious surfaces. Petitioners argue that the EIR’s
claim that PFAS leaching is unlikely lacks supporting evidence and contradicts
findings from other studies. Experts identified positive detections of multiple
PFAS compounds, which Petitioners state should have been disclosed.    
 
In opposition, Real
Parties argue that the EIR extensively analyzed potential health impacts from
artificial turf, relying on peer-reviewed studies and analyses from government
agencies, and found these impacts to be less than significant.  It also evaluated the “urban heat island” effect.
As to health and safety impacts due to increased surface temperatures, Real
Parties state that these arguments were not raised in Petitioners’ original
petitions, and cannot be introduced now. They also say that such safety
concerns do not fall under CEQA, which addresses environmental impacts on
persons in general, not impacts on specific individuals.  (Mira Mar Mobile Community v. City of
Oceanside (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 477, 492; Eureka Citizens for
Responsible Government v. City of Eureka (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 357, 377.)
 
The Court finds that
the EIR’s analysis of artificial turf, including potential health impacts and
the presence of PFAS, was supported by substantial evidence. The City addressed
public concerns and ensured that all risks were mitigated effectively. The EIR
addressed concerns about heat-related illness from artificial turf, citing
studies such as the New York State Department of Health report, which found
minimal difference in heat stress indicators between synthetic turf, grass, and
sand surfaces. As to PFAS, the DEIR disclosed the potential use of PFAS in
artificial turf manufacturing and the EIR provided an analysis of possible PFAS
exposure, including technical reports. The EIR concluded that any PFAS present
would be in minuscule quantities below public health screening thresholds,
posing negligible health risks. The EIR also countered criticisms regarding the
detection of PFAS by explaining that the “total fluorine” test overestimates
PFAS presence and that expected exposures would be minimal. Despite the
Governor’s veto of a proposed bill banning PFAS in artificial turf (Assembly
Bill 1423), Harvard-Westlake voluntarily agreed to a condition of approval that
mandates compliance with the proposed bill’s standards, ensuring no PFAS in the
artificial turf components. And the EIR explained that artificial turf would
include permeable fabrics for drainage and that the Project’s stormwater
capture system would manage all surface runoff, including any potential
contaminants. The EIR also scrutinized available studies, concluding that
significant leaching of PFAS was unlikely and any exposure would be minimal.   
 
            The Court finds that the EIR sufficiently
assessed artificial turf impacts, and the City relied on substantial evidence
to conclude that the artificial turf would not cause significant hazards.
 
4.   
Impacts on Biological Resources
 
Petitioners argue that
the EIR inadequately analyzed replacement tree mortality, reflected and
scattered light, and enforceable lighting mitigations. Petitioners say that experts
concluded that large box trees are prone to higher mortality rates, disease,
and stunted growth; the proposed oak replacements are particularly susceptible
to Sudden Oak Disease. The EIR does not account for expected tree mortality
rates, which Petitioners argue would undermine claims about increased canopy
coverage, heat island effects, carbon sequestration, and ecological benefits. Urban
tree mortality studies indicate a median 6.6–7% mortality rate, which could
result in the loss of approximately 121 trees within five years—nearly erasing
the Project’s claimed net increase of 150 trees. The tree replacement plan
(BIO-MM-3) does not mandate replanting trees that die from ordinary risks,
leaving canopy coverage recovery uncertain. Petitioners state the EIR’s reliance
on vague, unenforceable private contracts and unsupported claims violates
CEQA’s requirements for transparent and enforceable mitigation measures.  Petitioners also say that the EIR fails to
analyze or disclose short-term ecological impacts from reduced canopy coverage
and tree loss, particularly for sensitive species like the Western Yellow Bat,
which depend on mature tree habitats and have low reproductive rates.  
 
As to the lighting
analysis, Petitioners state the EIR’s reliance on Los Angeles Municipal Code
standards, which address property line impacts, fails to account for on-site
wildlife impacts. The Project’s nighttime lighting, including 192 LED lights
and three scoreboards, will triple light emissions and introduce harmful
short-wavelength blue light.  The EIR’s
analysis of lighting impacts fails to account for reflected and scattered light
or the harmful spectra of high-temperature LED lights, which will exacerbate
light pollution and disrupt wildlife such as migratory birds, raptors, and
special-status bats. Petitioners argue that despite expert recommendations for
reducing light intensity and turning off lights at night, the EIR proposes no
enforceable mitigations. Petitioners state that the EIR claims lighting impacts
will be mitigated through “precise optics and shields,” but these measures are
neither enforceable nor included in the Conditions of Approval. Petitioners
claim the EIR improperly incorporates specific Musco lighting products into its
analysis while attempting to obscure this reliance by deleting references to
Musco fixtures in the final EIR.  
 
In opposition, Real
Parties state the Project will result in a 36% net increase in trees, replacing
invasive Mexican fan palms with native species that enhance canopy coverage and
carbon sequestration. Mitigation Measure BIO-MM-3 ensures street trees are
replaced at a 2:1 ratio, significant trees at a 1:1 ratio, and requires a tree
expert to monitor the health of replacement trees for three years after
construction. The EIR concluded that the Project complies with all relevant
local biological resource policies, including the City’s General Plan, the Los
Angeles River Master Plan Landscaping Guidelines, and the RIO District
Ordinance. Real Parties reject Petitioners’ claims about potential tree
mortality rates, which they claim are speculative and unsupported by
substantial evidence. The City responded to these concerns, citing the
landscape architect’s expertise and the robust measures to ensure tree
vitality, including appropriate species selection and maintenance practices.  
 
The Court finds that
Real Parties sufficiently show that the Project achieves a net increase in tree
canopy and will likely enhance ecosystem benefits over time.
 
As to lighting
impacts, Petitioners dispute Real Parties’ assertion that existing lumens data
is unavailable, pointing out that LPP’s analysis relied on information provided
in the EIR itself. Petitioners also state that Real Parties rely on the DeMatte
declaration to assert that Musco fixtures will be used, and this post-EIR
declaration cannot cure defects in the EIR’s analysis. The declaration fails to
confirm whether the specified models will match those analyzed in the EIR.  
 
As noted, the Court is
not considering the DeMatte declaration. The Court finds that the EIR sufficiently
analyzed the lighting impacts by including technical reports and modeling,
which demonstrated that the Project’s lighting design would meet or exceed all
applicable standards, reduce offsite glare, and improve existing lighting
conditions. For example, the Project will eliminate 17 light poles to reduce
spillover effects.  The City also addressed
issues raised about light projection, reflected light, and wildlife impacts.
The EIR concluded that the lighting complies with RIO District and Title 24
standards, minimizing light pollution and spillover. Petitioners argue the
EIR’s lighting analysis assumed the use of specific Musco Lighting fixtures not
mandated by the Project approvals, but Real Parties show that the EIR used
real-world data from Musco Lighting to model impacts, and the Project will, in
fact, use these fixtures, ensuring consistency with the EIR’s analysis. The
Court finds that the Project’s lighting design adheres to regulatory
requirements, including shielding and directional lighting, and aims to reduce
preexisting impacts; any remaining impacts, such as “sky glow,” will not be
exacerbated.  
 
The EIR sufficiently assessed
biological resources impacts. 
 
5.   
GHG Impacts and Mitigation
 
Petitioners argue that
the EIR’s greenhouse gas (GHG) analysis is inadequate because it relies on
inapplicable policies, misrepresents quantitative emissions impacts, and fails
to address the short-term impacts of tree removal. Although the Project
increases GHG emissions from construction, mobile sources, electricity, and
natural gas, the EIR dismisses these impacts by relying solely on consistency
with GHG reduction plans under Threshold (b). The EIR claims consistency with
various statewide policies, such as SB 350 and SCAG plans, to justify its
findings. But, Petitioners argue, many of these policies do not apply to the
Project directly, and the EIR fails to explain how their implementation ensures
the Project’s incremental contribution to cumulative GHG impacts is
insignificant. For instance, Petitioners state the EIR incorrectly claims
compliance with the state’s cap-and-trade program and SB 350, despite that these
programs do not apply to private development projects. And they claim the EIR
fails to explain how these policies ensure the Project’s incremental GHG
emissions are not cumulatively considerable. Petitioners state that the EIR relies
on policies from the 2017 CARB Scoping Plan, which primarily assign
responsibility to state agencies and do not apply to individual projects.
Petitioners argue this violates CEQA, which requires a connection between
project impacts and applicable policies (Center for Biological Diversity v.
Department of Fish & Wildlife (2015) 62 Cal.4th 204, 229-30; Friends
of Oroville (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 832, 843.)  
 
While the EIR adopts
both Threshold (a) (quantitative GHG analysis) and Threshold (b) (compliance
with GHG reduction plans), Petitioners state it redundantly applies compliance
with GHG plans to both, creating a misleading impression that quantitative
emissions are less than significant. The EIR acknowledges the Project will
increase GHG emissions, yet it fails to evaluate the significance of this
increase under Threshold (a). Petitioners also highlight that the removal of
240 mature trees significantly reduces carbon sequestration and exacerbates
urban heat island effects. A study confirms that even two years after the
Project begins operation, the replacement trees will not offset the carbon
sequestration loss. The Project’s 30-month construction timeline, coupled with
the delayed maturity of replacement trees, leaves a minimum 4.5-year gap in
carbon sequestration services. The Project compounds impacts with the
installation of artificial turf, which absorbs heat and intensifies urban heat
island effects.  
 
In opposition, Respondents
assert that CEQA grants agencies discretion to select an appropriate threshold
to analyze GHG impacts. The City relied on qualitative thresholds, evaluating
the Project’s consistency with local and statewide GHG reduction plans, which
is an accepted methodology under CEQA. (Guidelines, § 15064.4, subds. (a)-(b); Center
for Biological Diversity v. California Department of Fish & Wildlife
(2015) 62 Cal.4th 204, 228-231.) The City also made a good faith effort to
estimate GHG emissions, finding operational emissions of 2,719 MMTCO2e, which
would be reduced by 32% through project features. While quantitative thresholds
were not applied, Respondents state this approach aligns with CEQA’s
requirement to qualitatively analyze GHG emissions based on compliance with
adopted policies.  (Mission Bay
Alliance v. Office of Community Investment & Infrastructure (2016) 6
Cal.App.5th 160, 201-202.) 
 
Respondents also
argue that GHG reducing features were properly integrated into the Project.
Respondents state that Petitioners incorrectly characterized the Project’s
design features, such as PDF-GHG-1 (solar installation), as mitigation measures
when the EIR explains that these features are inherent to the Project and align
with CEQA guidelines. The EIR assessed GHG emissions both with and without
these features, addressing Petitioners’ concerns about compressed analysis.  
 
The Court finds that
the EIR evaluated GHG emissions based on the Project’s consistency with
applicable GHG reduction plans, including CARB’s Climate Change Scoping Plan,
SCAG’s RTP/SCS, the City’s Green New Deal, and the Los Angeles Building Code. The
Court finds that this demonstrates the Project’s alignment with
performance-based standards and supports a conclusion of less-than-significant
impacts.  The EIR also incorporated
specific measures, such as obtaining electricity from LADWP’s renewable
portfolio and including energy efficiency features, which aim to have
consistency with statewide GHG reduction goals.    
 
The EIR also analyzed
the Project’s tree replacement program, concluding it would result in long-term
benefits, including a 49% increase in tree count and a 53% increase in canopy
coverage. Newly planted trees would surpass the carbon sequestration rates of
existing trees within two years of planting, sequestering 8,672,675 pounds of
CO2 over their lifetime—more than triple current levels. While Petitioners
argue the program fails to offset impacts immediately, Respondents argue that CEQA
does not require instant mitigation. The Court agrees and finds that the EIR sufficiently
demonstrates how increased canopy coverage and the use of sustainable
landscaping would mitigate urban heat island effects.  
 
The Court finds that
the City sufficiently evaluated GHG impacts by comparing the Project’s
consistency with applicable regulations, plans, and policies, and relied on
substantial evidence to conclude that impacts would be less than significant.  
 
6.   
Inconsistencies with Land Use Plans
 
Petitioners argue
that the Project violates the City’s Open Space Plan, part of the General Plan,
which mandates the conservation of Open Space to mitigate environmental impacts
and preserve natural, scenic, and historical resources.  (Gov. Code, §§ 65561, 65562.) Open Space is
defined as land “essentially free of structures and buildings” and intended for
recreation, scenic, and environmental benefits. 
Petitioners contend the Project introduces significant new structures,
including a gymnasium, pool, and artificial turf fields, which reduce the Open
Space function of the site. The EIR states that the Project increases Open
Space by adding publicly accessible areas, but Petitioners claim it fails to
apply the correct definition of Open Space, which excludes sites with
significant structures. Further, they state the Project increases site
intensity and parking requirements. Although Appendix J acknowledges “partial
conflicts” with Open Space policies, Petitioners assert that the main EIR text
misrepresents this by claiming no conflicts exist. Petitioners assert that the
Open Space Plan explicitly requires preservation of historic monuments located
on Open Space lands. Yet, the Project demolishes most of the Studio City Golf
and Tennis Center, a City Historic Cultural Monument. Petitioners also argue
that the City improperly relies on discretionary policies in the Open Space
Element to justify its findings and fails to address the mandatory requirement
to preserve cultural and historic resources. Petitioners contend that such
mandatory policies cannot be balanced against other discretionary policies, as
CEQA requires the City to disclose and analyze the inconsistency.  (Sierra Club v. Board of Supervisors
(1981) 126 Cal.App.3d 698, 704.)
 
The Court finds that
the EIR’s analysis of land use impacts is consistent with CEQA requirements and
supported by substantial evidence. A project is consistent with a general plan
if it furthers the objectives and policies without obstructing their
attainment.  The EIR concluded that the
Project is consistent with the General Plan’s open space policies, as it would
provide 5.4 acres of publicly accessible open space, replace invasive trees
with native species, and enhance accessibility to the Los Angeles River. The
Community Plan’s open space designation identifies deficiencies in accessible
open space, which the Project would address by providing park areas,
recreational facilities, and ADA-compliant pathways to the Los Angeles River
Greenway. Appendix J analyzes the Project’s consistency with specific policies
and objectives and finds no substantial conflicts. Respondents state that
Petitioners misconstrue the General Plan’s definition of open space, which
includes land that provides recreation, scenic, or cultural value, regardless
of whether it contains structures. The Court agrees. The City’s interpretation
of its General Plan is reasonable and entitled to deference, and Petitioners
fail to show that no reasonable person could have reached the same conclusion.
(Golden Door Properties, LLC v. County of San Diego (2020) 50
Cal.App.5th 467, 501 [“A project need not conform perfectly to every general
plan policy to be consistent with the general plan.”].) And Petitioners fail to
demonstrate how any purported inconsistencies would lead to significant
environmental impacts. (Joshua Tree Downtown Business Alliance v. County of
San Bernardino (2016) 1 Cal.App.5th 677, 695-696.)
 
            The Court finds that the EIR
adequately analyzed the Project’s potential land use and planning impacts.
 
7.   
Impacts to Emergency Access and Response
 
Petitioners argue that the EIR fails to
adequately disclose, analyze, and mitigate the Project’s significant impacts on
emergency access and response, particularly regarding queuing, parking garage
evacuation, and construction-related hazards.  Petitioners state the City relied on
incomplete or deferred mitigation measures without clear performance standards.
Petitioners argue the driveways surrounding LAFD Fire Station 78 compromise
emergency response times by creating significant traffic congestion. They state
the two driveways, one on Whitsett Avenue and one on Valleyheart Drive, will
generate consistent congestion from vehicles, shuttles, and security screening,
impeding emergency vehicle access. Experts predict queueing near the
Valleyheart entrance due to the security kiosk and prolonged delays at the
Whitsett exit, which could block emergency vehicles. The EIR relies on
mitigation measures such as a flashing warning light (TRAF-PDF-2), but Petitioners
remark this feature is manually activated, unenforceable, and insufficient to
prevent conflicts.  
Petitioners also assert
that the EIR does not address the significant risks associated with evacuating
the single-lane parking garage during emergencies. Traffic experts found it
could take over an hour to clear the garage, with queueing extending 275 feet,
blocking the main aisle and exacerbating evacuation delays. The EIR
acknowledges these delays but suggests attendees could evacuate by foot, which
Petitioners claim is an impractical solution. Finally, Petitioners argue the
EIR violates CEQA by deferring analysis and mitigation of construction-related
impacts through post-approval preparation of a Construction Management Plan
(CMP).  
 
In opposition, Real
Parties argue that the EIR thoroughly examined potential impacts on emergency
access and response, including access to LAFD Fire Station 78 and evacuation
from the Project’s parking lot. The analysis required a CMP to minimize impacts
during construction and incorporated Project Design Features TRAF-PDF-1 and
TRAF-PDF-2 to enhance emergency access. As to congestion and queuing, Real
Parties assert that since 2020, CEQA no longer considers automobile delay or
queuing a significant environmental impact.  (Guidelines, § 15064.3(a); Ocean St.
Extension Neighborhood Assn. (2021) 73 Cal.App.5th 985, 1021.) The Project
eliminates two conflict points by removing specific driveways and provides a
traffic signal feature (TRAF-PDF-2) allowing emergency vehicles to hold back
exiting traffic as needed.  Security
personnel will manage vehicle queues within the parking garage, ensuring
traffic does not impede emergency access. Petitioners argue that a single
garage exit lane will hinder evacuation; however, Real Parties provide that in
emergencies, both driveways can be used for evacuation and visitors can also
evacuate on foot if necessary.  
 
Real Parties also
assert that Petitioners mischaracterize TRAF-PDF-1 (CMP) and TRAF-PDF-2
(traffic signal light) as mitigation measures, when they are in fact integrated
components of the Project’s design. Mitigation measures are not required for
impacts that are not significant.  (Guidelines,
§ 15126.4(a)(3).) Real Parties argue the CMP is enforceable through the
Mitigation Monitoring Program (MMP), which mandates City approval, detailed
compliance requirements, and regular meetings to ensure adherence.  The TRAF-PDF-2 feature is not a mitigation
measure but a design component that ensures the traffic signal is always
available for Fire Station 78’s use. Emergency vehicles retain discretion on
its activation, consistent with its purpose. Real Parties state that courts
routinely uphold the deferral of specific mitigation details when they cannot
be finalized until closer to construction. (Rialto Citizens for Responsible
Growth (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 899, 944; City of Maywood*(2012) 208
Cal.App.4th 362, 409.)  
 
            In reply, Petitioners highlight
specific issues with the Project’s design that would create new hazards for
emergency access. They state that Real Parties provide no evidence that queuing
conflicts will be effectively managed or that vehicles will reliably clear
paths for emergency responders during congestion. They state the proposed
warning light is unenforceable and insufficient to address these issues. They
state that the EIR acknowledges that evacuating the parking garage may take
over an hour but fails to analyze the feasibility of using its two exits
effectively. Experts counter that visitors are unlikely to abandon their
vehicles during emergencies, further compounding evacuation delays and
obstructing emergency vehicle access.  
 
Petitioners also
criticize the Project’s reliance on design features and deferred mitigation
measures. While Real Parties claim that the Construction Management Plan
(TRAF-PDF-1) and traffic light (TRAF-PDF-2) are not mitigation measures, the
EIR relies on these features to conclude that the Project would not have
significant emergency access impacts. Petitioners argue that this approach
compresses the analysis of impacts and mitigation measures in violation of CEQA.
Additionally, the CMP lacks specific performance standards to ensure its
effectiveness, failing CEQA’s requirement for detailed and enforceable
mitigation measures. (Guidelines, §15126.4.) Petitioners state the EIR also
does not analyze the circulation and safety impacts caused by construction,
leaving emergency access issues unaddressed.  
 
The Court finds that the
EIR sufficiently disclosed and mitigated any potential impacts to emergency
access. Petitioners fail to demonstrate a prejudicial abuse of discretion in
the City’s findings. The EIR examined emergency access impacts, including those
related to queuing, parking garage evacuation, and construction activities. The
Project includes design features, such as the Construction Management Plan
(TRAF-PDF-1) and a traffic signal light (TRAF-PDF-2), to ensure emergency
access. The CMP is enforceable through the Mitigation Monitoring Program, which
requires City approval, oversight, and regular monitoring. TRAF-PDF-2 allows
emergency vehicles to activate a warning signal to manage traffic flow during
emergencies, providing a practical solution.  
 
Petitioners’ concerns
regarding traffic congestion and queuing near LAFD Fire Station 78 are
insufficient to demonstrate a significant impact under CEQA. As Real Parties
correctly note, automobile delay or queuing is no longer considered a
significant environmental impact under CEQA Guidelines section 15064.3(a).
Moreover, the Project removes two existing conflict points and incorporates
features to facilitate emergency access, such as security personnel to manage
vehicle queues and the use of both driveways for emergency evacuation when
needed.  
 
The EIR acknowledges
potential delays in garage evacuation but provides reasonable solutions,
including the use of both driveways and the option for visitors to evacuate on
foot during emergencies. Petitioners’ claim that visitors would not abandon
vehicles is speculative and does not undermine the City’s reliance on these
measures. 
 
Petitioners’
challenge to the deferred mitigation measures in the CMP lacks merit.  Courts have upheld the deferral of specific
mitigation details when practical reasons necessitate finalization closer to
construction, provided enforceable performance standards are in place. (Rialto
Citizens for Responsible Growth (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 899, 944 [“Thus,
when, for practical reasons, mitigation measures cannot be fully formulated at
the time of project approval, the lead agency may commit itself to devising them
at a later time, provided the measures are required to ‘satisfy specific
performance criteria articulated at the time of project approval.’”]; City
of Maywood (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 362, 409.) The CMP contains sufficient
oversight mechanisms and ensures the Project will not create significant
impacts during construction.  
 
8.   
Tribal Cultural Resource Impacts
 
Petitioners argue
that the EIR failed to adequately analyze and mitigate impacts to tribal
cultural resources.  The Kizh Nation advised
the City that the Project site was within the historic Village of Cahuenga and is
highly culturally sensitive. The Kizh pointed to the site’s proximity to sacred
watercourses and trade routes, indicating a high potential for impacting tribal
cultural resources. Petitioners argue that the City prematurely closed its
consultation process with tribal representatives, rejecting proposed mitigation
measures and concluding impacts would be less than significant without
substantial evidence. They contend that that this decision ignored Appendix G’s
directive to consider the significance of tribal cultural resources to Native
American tribes.  
 
Petitioners also
state that the City improperly required evidence of identified resources on the
Project site itself, a standard inconsistent with CEQA. Section 21084.3(b)
mandates mitigation for projects that “may cause a substantial adverse change
to a tribal cultural resource” and does not require physical evidence of known
resources onsite. Petitioners state the City’s standard condition of approval
for TCRs was not included in the MMP, violating Section 21081.6. As to whether
these issues are moot, Petitioners argue that while grading has progressed, it
is not yet complete. Even if it were, the issue of whether the City can exclude
its standard condition of approval from the MMP remains a matter of broad
public interest, making the case eligible for the discretionary exception to
mootness. (Epstein v. Superior Court (2011) 193 Cal.App.4th 1405, 1411
[discussing three discretionary exceptions to the rules regarding mootness:
“(1) when the case presents an issue of broad public interest that is likely to
recur [citation]; (2) when there may be a recurrence of the controversy between
the parties [citation]; and (3) when a material question remains for the
court’s determination.”].)
 
In opposition, Respondents
and Real Parties state the City met AB 52 obligations by notifying and
consulting with the Fernandeño Tataviam Band of Mission Indians (FTBMI) and the
Gabrieleño Band of Mission Indians—Kizh Nation, as documented in the Draft EIR.
These consultations occurred before the DEIR was released.  
 
The Court finds that
the EIR’s analysis of tribal resources was based on substantial evidence. The City
reasonably concluded that no mitigation measures were necessary based on the
finding that there were no tribal cultural resources identified within the
Project site, and no substantial evidence that the Project would have
significant impacts on tribal cultural resources. To address the possibility of
unforeseen discoveries during construction, the City included an enforceable
Condition of Approval requiring cessation of ground-disturbing activities,
coordination with tribes, and other actions. 
Respondents show that the City considered tribal evidence, including
claims that the site was within the Village of Cahuenga, but concluded that the
absence of archaeological findings and the low likelihood of tribal cultural
resources in the area supported a less-than-significant impact finding. The
City used Appendix G thresholds of significance, which are standard under CEQA,
and weighed evidence, including input from the tribes, to determine the
Project’s impacts. The Court is also persuaded by Respondents’ arguments that
the condition of approval was not a mitigation measure given that no
significant impacts were identified. 
 
The City adequately
analyzed tribal impacts in the EIR; substantial evidence supports its findings.

 
9.   
Project Description
 
Petitioners argue
that the Project description in the EIR is insufficient by providing limited
and inconsistent information about the extent of public access to these new
facilities. The EIR claims the facilities would be available to the public “when
not in use by the school,” but it also adds numerous restrictions, including
preapproval, formal registration, and liability insurance, effectively
excluding most community members. Petitioners state the EIR also conflicts in
estimating public availability, claiming availability during school hours yet
prohibiting access when the school is using any facilities.  
 
The Court disagrees,
and finds that the EIR sufficiently describes the “whole of the action” by
including sufficient detail to allow for evaluation of environmental impacts. The
EIR outlines the Project’s objectives, such as creating new publicly accessible
open space and enhancing the Los Angeles River and Zev Yaroslavsky Greenway.  The Project Description also provides public
access hours, specifying that various facilities would be open to the public
daily from 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m., with specific windows for certain
facilities. For example, athletic fields, the gymnasium, and tennis courts are
fully available to the public during specific times. A reservation system
further supports public accessibility. The lack of exact school-use schedules does
not render the description inadequate. 
 
10.
Alternatives Analysis
 
Petitioners argue
that the EIR’s alternatives analysis was insufficient and that it impermissibly
narrowed the project objectives. Commenters suggested a reduced-density
alternative to mitigate impacts, but the EIR dismissed it on the basis that it
would not meet all project objectives. The EIR also rejected alternatives such
as using natural turf instead of artificial turf, despite health concerns
raised by the public and recommendations from officials. Petitioners take issue
with the EIR’s including only three alternatives, each allegedly designed to
fail by increasing impacts or removing key components of the Project, such as
public access or stormwater capture. They claim that none of the alternatives
effectively reduced the Project’s significant and unavoidable impacts, such as
construction noise. They state one alternative elevated an athletic field,
increasing environmental impacts, while the others reduced or eliminated public
access to the facilities.  
 
CEQA requires an EIR
to include a reasonable range of alternatives that feasibly achieve most of the
Project’s objectives while reducing significant impacts. This analysis is
governed by the “rule of reason.” (Guidelines, § 15126.6, subd. (a); Mann v.
Community Redevelopment Agency (1991) 233 Cal.App.3d 1143, 1150.) The Court
finds that the alternatives analyzed were sufficient. The EIR analyzed four
alternatives, including a “No Project” alternative and three alternatives that
modified site use and configuration to address the Project’s significant and
unavoidable construction noise impacts. It also considered and rejected
alternatives involving different sites, incompatible land uses, or elimination
of school facilities. The EIR states that the Project’s core purpose is to
enhance Harvard-Westlake School’s athletic and recreational facilities to
support its educational mission, which informed the development of nine
objectives. Respondents state that these objectives were sufficiently broad to
allow for meaningful evaluation of alternatives.  
 
Respondents show that
the EIR crafted alternatives based on the judgment of educational professionals
about Harvard-Westlake’s needs while considering public input and the Project’s
significant impacts. CEQA does not require alternatives to meet all objectives
or fully eliminate impacts—only to reduce or avoid significant effects where
feasible. (Guidelines, § 15126.6, subd. (f).) The Court finds that the City
relied on substantial evidence to support the alternatives analysis, including
feasibility considerations and the balance between achieving objectives and
mitigating impacts. 
 
 
C.  
The City Provided Due Process
 
Petitioners argue
that the City Planning Commission (CPC) failed to provide a fair hearing,
violating due process principles under the California Constitution and CEQA.  They emphasize that an unbiased decision-making
body is essential to a fair adjudicative process, and even the appearance of
bias from personal interests or procedural irregularities creates an
unacceptable risk of bias. (Morongo Band of Mission Indians v. State
Water Res. Control Bd. (2009) 45 Cal.4th 731, 737.) Petitioners assert that
undisclosed relationships with Harvard-Westlake by CPC President Samantha Millman
and Vice President Caroline Choe created an unacceptable risk of bias. According
to Petitioners, Choe was a founding member of the school’s Korean-American
Alumni Network, had an endowment fund in her name, and donated over $500,000 to
the school. Millman and Choe were prominently recognized in Harvard-Westlake
reports for their substantial contributions. Choe and Millman disclosed that
they were Harvard-Westlake alumni, but they omitted material details about
their financial and leadership roles. Petitioners point out that the financial
support here was far greater than the donations deemed permissible in Breakzone
Billiards v. City of Torrance (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th 1205, where
contributions totaled less than $2,000. Petitioners claim that Choe’s
significant financial contributions to Harvard-Westlake represent a direct and
unconditional expression of support.  
 
It appears that Commissioners Millman and Choe did not fully disclose their
financial and leadership ties to Harvard-Westlake. As noted, Petitioners contend
that Choe donated over $500,000 to Harvard-Westlake; while Real Parties argue
that this is an “estimate” created by Petitioners, it is derived at least in
part from Harvard-Westlake annual reports, and Real Parties do not provide any
evidence to rebut it. These financial contributions likely are substantial, and
likely surpass the donations in Breakzone Billiards. Choe and Millman
disclosed their alumni status, but they did not reveal the extent of their continued
involvement with the school, including Choe’s leadership as a founding member
of the Korean-American Alumni Network and the endowment fund established in her
name. These suggest a significant ongoing relationship with the school. 
 
However, the Court finds that the failure to fully disclose Choe’s and
Millman’s financial contributions and leadership roles did not result in a
denial of due process. Due process in an administrative setting is measured by
whether the parties had an opportunity to be heard and present their case to an
impartial decision-making body. As pointed out by Respondents, courts
presume that administrative adjudicators act impartially unless concrete
evidence proves otherwise. Donations to alma maters or participation in alumni
networks are not evidence of prejudice. (Independent Roofing Contractors v.
Cal. Apprenticeship Council (2003) 114 Cal.App.4th 1330, 1339-1340.) Petitioners
have not shown sufficient, “concrete facts” to justify a suspicion that the CPC
was unable to consider fairly the evidence before it. (See BreakZone Billiards v. City of Torrance (2000) 81 Cal.App.4th at
1236–1237.)
 
The decision-making process here protected the due process rights of
Petitioners and other stakeholders. The CPC and City Council conducted public
hearings, allowing Petitioners and other stakeholders to provide comments,
submit evidence, and raise objections to the Project. The CPC’s unanimous decision
to approve the Project was reviewed independently by the City Council, which
conducted a de novo review of the Project, providing an additional layer
of scrutiny. The record reflects that the Project was approved on its merits,
and the Court has found that substantial evidence in the administrative record
supports the Project’s approval. 
 
In balancing these considerations, the Court finds that the lack of full
disclosure did not rise to the level of a due process violation that would warrant
invalidating the Project’s approval. The decision-making process provided
adequate procedural safeguards to ensure fairness and compliance with due process
principles under the California Constitution and CEQA.
 