 Case Number:  23STCV03508    Hearing Date:   December 10, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
John Doe,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
23STCV03508




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Prospect Medical Holdings, Inc.,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: December
10, 2024
Department 54,
Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion to
Compel Medical Examination of Plaintiff
Moving Party: Defendant Prospect
Medical Holdings, Inc.
Responding
Party: Plaintiff Joh Doe
 
T/R:      DEFENDANT’S MOTION IS GRANTED. 
 
DEFENDANT TO NOTICE.
 
If the parties
wish to submit on the tentative, please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing
counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the
hearing. 
 
The Court considers the moving papers, opposition, and reply.
 
“(a) If any party desires to obtain discovery by a physical examination
other than that described in Article 2 (commencing with Section 2032.210), or
by a mental examination, the party shall obtain leave of court.  (b) A
motion for an examination under subdivision (a) shall specify the time, place,
manner, conditions, scope, and nature of the examination, as well as the
identity and the specialty, if any, of the person or persons who will perform
the examination. The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.”  (CCP § 2032.310.)  “The court
shall grant a motion for a physical or mental examination under Section
2032.310 only for good cause shown.”  (CCP § 2032.320(a).) 
 
Defendant moves to compel Plaintiff to sit for a neuropsychiatric exam.
Plaintiff alleges he was assaulted by security guards at the Defendant
hospital. Plaintiff’s claimed injuries include PTSD, extreme emotional distress,
and a traumatic brain injury. Given these claimed injuries, Defendant may
perform an independent medical exam. 
 
Defendant asserts that Plaintiff has refused to proceed with the exam
because Plaintiff insists that the exam be recorded. Defendant represents that
for ethical reasons, the testing cannot be recorded, and that raw testing data
may only be transmitted to other experts. Plaintiff may not independently
record the examination. As to raw data, the Court of Appeal in Randy's Trucking,
Inc., et al. v. The Superior Court of Kern County (2023) 91 Cal.App.5th 818
held that the Court may order disclosure of this information to Plaintiff’s
counsel. The raw data, test information, and any audio recordings created by
the expert, are relevant and discoverable. The Court will not limit disclosure only
to Plaintiff’s neuropsychologists. 
 
Defendant’s motion is GRANTED.


 