  Case Number:  22AHCV00443    Hearing Date:   June 12, 2024    Dept:  3 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MARIO CHAVEZ, et al., 
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
MIKE CHEN,
   M.D., et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV00443
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: MOTION FOR LEAVE TO AMEND COMPLAINT
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
June 12,
   2024



 
I.           
Introduction
On July 7, 2022, this action was filed
by plaintiffs Mario Chavez, Jose Chavez, David Chavez, Vidal Chavez, and
Virginia Chavez (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) against defendants Brainlab AG,
Brainlab, Inc., Mike Chen, M.D. (“Dr. Chen”), Methodist Hospital of Southern
California (“Methodist Hospital”), and City of Hope National Medical Center
(“City of Hope National”). Defendant Meta Dynamic, Inc. (“Meta Dynamic”) was
added to the Complaint as a Doe defendant on August 8, 2022. The action arises
from the medical treatment of Rosalva Chavez (“Decedent”). 
On October 31, 2023, Dr. Chen filed a
motion for summary judgment. On November 3, 2023, City of Hope National filed a
joinder to Dr. Chen’s summary judgment motion and a separate statement in
support thereof. 
          On November
6, 2023, Plaintiffs added City of Hope Medical Group as Doe 51. 
          On February
6, 2024, Meta Dynamic filed a motion for summary judgment. On February 7, 2024,
Methodist Hospital filed a motion for summary judgment. On February 8, 2024,
Brainlab Inc. and Brainlab, AG (collectively, “Brainlab”) filed a notice of
joinder to Meta Dynamic’s motion for summary judgment and a separate statement
in support thereof. 
          On February
16, 2024, City of Hope Medical Group filed a motion for summary judgment. The
same day, City of Hope National was dismissed. 
          On March 14,
2024, Plaintiffs amended the complaint to add John Cheeley (“Cheeley”) as Doe
52 and Meta Dynamic as Doe 53. 
          On March 29,
2024, Plaintiffs filed an ex parte application to substitute Brenda Chavez,
Anjelica Chavez, and Annette Chavez (collectively, the “Chavez Heirs”) as the
successors-in-interest to Jose Chavez, who passed away on February 8, 2024. The
application was granted. 
          On April 19,
2024, Plaintiffs filed a motion for leave to amend the complaint. 
On April 24, 2024, Plaintiffs dismissed
City of Hope Medical Group and City of Hope Medical Group took their summary
judgment motion off calendar. 
On May 2, 2024, Meta Dynamic and
Cheeley filed an opposition brief. Brainlab also filed an opposition brief on
the same day, as did Methodist Hospital. 
On May 8, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a
reply brief. 
Meta Dynamic, Cheeley, Brainlab, and
Methodist Hospital filed sur-reply briefs with leave of court on May 21 and 22,
2024. 
II.         
LEGAL
STANDARD
The court may, in its discretion and
after notice to the adverse party, allow, upon any terms as may be just, an
amendment to any pleading, including adding or striking out the name of any
party, or correcting a mistake in the name of a party, or a mistake in any
other respect. (Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (a)(1).) “Public policy dictates
that leave to amend be liberally granted.” (Centex
Homes v. St. Paul Fire & Marine Ins. Co. (2015) 237 Cal.App.4th 23,
32.) However, “[a]lthough courts are bound to apply a policy of great
liberality in permitting amendments to the complaint at any stage of the
proceedings, up to and including trial . . . this policy should be applied only
‘where no prejudice is shown to the adverse party.’ [Citation]. A different
result is indicated ‘where inexcusable delay and probable prejudice to the
opposing party’ is shown. [Citation.]” (Magpali
v. Farmers Group, Inc. (1996) 47 Cal.App.4th 471, 487.)
A motion to amend a pleading must
include a copy of the proposed amendment or amended pleading which must be
serially numbered to differentiate it from previous pleadings or amendments and
must state what allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted
or added, if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the
allegations are located.  (Cal. Rules of
Court, Rule 3.1324(a).) The motion shall also be accompanied by a declaration
attesting to the effect of the amendment, why the amendment is necessary and
proper, when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were discovered,
and why the request for amendment was not made earlier. (Cal. Rules of Court,
Rule 1.324(b).)
III.       
DISCUSSION
Plaintiffs request leave to amend to
correct the name of the medical device at issue, add the names of the Chavez
Heirs as plaintiffs, add one cause of action for unauthorized practice of
medicine against Meta Dynamic and Cheeley, and “[c]larify allegations of cause
of action for general negligence.” Plaintiffs’ counsel declares that the
amendments are necessary “upon revelation of vital new information in
discovery” without identifying what that information is or when it was
discovered. (Lerner Decl., ¶ 6.) The Court proceeds to separately discuss each
of the proposed amendments. 
A.  
Correcting
the Name of the Medical Device 
With respect to amending the Complaint
to add the Kick 2, a neuronavigational unit, in place of the
currently-identified ExacTrac Dynamic Charged-Particle Radiation Therapy System
(“ExactTrac product”), Plaintiffs’ counsel were informed by Brainlab’s counsel
on a phone call around September 28, 2023, that Brainlab believed that
Plaintiffs had identified the wrong device in the Complaint; Brainlab also
identified the proper device in a follow-up email. Brainlab argues that Plaintiffs
show no excuse for waiting until April to amend the name of the machine,
especially when Plaintiffs’ counsel announced an intent to amend the complaint
in November. Brainlab argues that a “basic investigation” would have made it
obvious to Plaintiffs that they were looking at the wrong device because the
ExacTrac’s full name makes it obvious that it is a “system that assists
physicians with charged-particle radiation therapy treatments”, and a
particle-radiation therapy machine was not in the room during the surgery. Brainlab
further contends that this fact was easily discoverable because one of the
plaintiffs, Mario Chavez, worked in the same hospital where Decedent was
treated and his job is maintaining hospital equipment. 
Brainlab argues that adding the Kick 2
would result in prejudice because Plaintiffs would essentially be alleging an
entirely new incident which would require additional discovery and
investigation of a different claim. Brainlab also points out that it has a
pending summary judgment motion, which would become moot if the complaint were
amended. 
Despite these claims of prejudice,
however, the Court notes that Brainlab did not file a summary judgment motion,
but a joinder to the summary judgment motion filed by Meta Dynamic. Also, in
Brainlab’s separate statement, Brainlab already addresses the alleged malfunctioning
of the correct machine, the Kick 2, arguing that any poor accuracy of the neuro
navigation unit was due to issues with the MRI images loaded into the device,
and not the device itself. Given that Brainlab has already investigated how the
Kick 2 machine operates and addressed it in its summary judgment motion,
allowing amendment does not appear to require any burdensome discovery beyond
identifying Plaintiff’s contentions. 
As for Meta Dynamic, the Court notes
that Meta Dynamic’s motion also already preemptively addresses the claims that
the Kick 2 malfunctioned. Therefore, Meta Dynamic’s claims that additional
discovery will need to be conducted do not appear to be so burdensome as to
result in prejudice, especially because Meta Dynamic already knew that the Kick
2 system was at issue, not the ExacTrac. 
In addition, the Court emphasizes that Plaintiffs
were not informed of the Kick II until September 2023. Also, Meta Dynamic and
Brain Lab did not propound discovery after being notified by Plaintiffs that
they intended to amend the Complaint on November 27, 2023. At that point, Meta
Dynamic and Brain Lab could have propounded written discovery in anticipation
of the amended complaint, just as their summary judgment motion discussed the
Kick II even though it was not yet identified in the complaint. 
Therefore, insofar as the motion seeks
leave to identify the Kick 2 instead of ExacTract, the motion is GRANTED.  
B.  
Adding
the Chavez Heirs as Plaintiffs
This particular proposed amendment is
not opposed. The motion for leave to amend and add the Chavez Heirs as
plaintiffs is GRANTED.  
C.  
Adding
a Claim for Unauthorized Practice of Medicine 
Plaintiffs argue that Meta Dynamic did
not identify Cheeley in response to discovery and that they were not aware of
his identity until Meta Dynamic filed its motion for summary judgment on
Februry 6, 2024. (Reply, p. 9.) In its sur-reply, Meta Dynamic argues this is
inaccurate. Meta Dynamic states that it did not identify Cheeley as a person
with knowledge because the complaint at the time only alleged the malfunction
of the ExacTrac device. Meta Dynamic also denies any claim of gamesmanship,
stating that they identified Cheeley as the technician present in the operating
room the day after Dr. Chen was deposed; Meta Dynamic also offered Cheeley for
deposition on a date Plaintiffs’ counsel chose.
Meta Dynamic and Cheeley also argue
that there is no factual basis for the claim that they engaged in the
unauthorized practice of medicine. According to the proposed amended complaint,
Dr. Chen testified that he was advised by Cheeley that “motion artifact was not
uncommon and that the proceeding under the circumstances was not
contraindicated.” The transcript for the deposition of Dr. Chen is attached in
its entirety to Meta Dynamic’s sur-reply and the Court cannot identify any
portion of the transcript which would imply that Cheeley, referred to as Meta
Dynamic’s technician, gave any advice to Dr. Chen about proceeding with the
biopsy. Because the deposition transcript attached provides no indication that
Dr. Chen actually testified that he was advised by Cheeley regarding motion
artifact and performing the brain biopsy, the motion for leave to add this
cause of action is DENIED. 
D.  “Clarifying” Negligence Allegations 
With respect to Plaintiffs’ claims of
negligent postoperative care, Plaintiffs claim they retained a neurosurgeon “in
the Fall of 2023” to review Decedent’s medical records in light of Dr. Chen’s
summary judgment motion. (Reply, p. 2.) Plaintiffs’ counsel did not speak with
the retained expert until late January, on or about January 23, 2024, at which time
he opined that the care provided was below the standard of care and that
Decedent died from hyponatremia and poor management of her comorbid conditions
and post-surgical seizures. Notably, Plaintiffs did not submit the opinion of
this unidentified expert to oppose Dr. Chen’s summary judgment. Instead,
Plaintiffs submitted the declaration of Jessica Chavez, R.N., who is Decedent’s
daughter-in-law. Nurse Chavez states in her declaration that she had various interactions
with different nurses and at least one physician's assistant May 17 through May
28, 2021. 
In their reply brief, Plaintiffs argue
that the delay in seeking leave to amend was caused by Plaintiffs’ counsel desire
to contact all the Plaintiffs before filing this motion. Plaintiff’s counsel claims
in a supplemental declaration that he did not feel he could file a motion for
leave to amend the complaint until he had conferred with each plaintiff and
further declares that it was difficult to confer with Jose Chavez due to his
serious illness and eventual death in February. This is unpersuasive because Plaintiffs
dismissed City of Hope Medical Group National with prejudice on February 16,
2024, and it is unclear how Plaintiffs’ counsel would feel more comfortable
with requesting the dismissal of a claim without prejudice than seeking leave
to add claims and defendants. Also, Plaintiffs’ counsel never identifies the
point at which he was able to contact all of the Plaintiffs and obtain whatever
consent he believed was necessary to file a motion for leave. 
In light of the foregoing, Plaintiffs’
delay in amending the complaint is inexcusable. Furthermore, Defendants will be
prejudiced if Plaintiffs are given leave to amend to add allegations regarding
post-operative care because Defendants will be forced to incur costs for conducting
additional discovery and re-filing their motions for summary judgment. Unlike
the allegations renaming the medical device at issue, Plaintiffs never
indicated to Defendants that they intended to amend the complaint to address
any postoperative care. Because of Plaintiffs’ inexcusable delay and the
resulting prejudice to Defendants, the motion for leave to amend the general
negligence claim is DENIED. 
IV.        
CONCLUSION
Plaintiffs’ motion is GRANTED with
respect to amending the name of the medical device and adding the names of the
Chavez Heirs. The remainder of the motion is DENIED. 
Moving party to give notice.
Dated
this 12th
day of June
2024 
 




 


 




 


William A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court
 




Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at ALHDEPT3@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. Please be advised that if you submit
on the tentative and elect not to appear at the hearing, the opposing party may
nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue the matter. Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue. If the Court does not receive emails from
the parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
 SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - NORTHEAST
DISTRICT
 



MARIO CHAVEZ, et al.,
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
MIKE
   CHEN, M.D., et al., 
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 22AHCV00443
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT METHODIST HOSPITAL OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA’S MOTION FOR
  SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
 
Dept.
  3
8:30
  a.m.
May 3,
  2024



 
I.       INTRODUCTION
          On July 7,
2022, plaintiffs Mario Chavez, Jose Chavez, David Chavez, Vidal Chavez, and
Virginia Chavez (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action against
defendant Methodist Hospital of Southern California (“Defendant”). The action arises
from the medical treatment provided to Rosalva Chavez (“Chavez”) for a suspected
brain lesion. Plaintiffs allege that Defendant, among other medical providers, negligently
performed a craniotomy and biopsy of a suspected brain lesion. (Compl., p. 6.) Plaintiffs
allege that the neuro-navigation unit used for the craniotomy and biopsy, ExacTrac
Dynamic Medical Charged-Particle Radiation Therapy System (“ExacTrac System”),
failed and that Defendant, along with other co-defendants, negligently
proceeded to conduct a “blind biopsy” which removed healthy brain material and
led to severe cognitive failure and decline. Chavez passed away on May 28,
2021.
          On February
7, 2024, Defendant filed this motion for summary judgment. Defendant argues
that the care and treatment provided to Chavez complied with the standard of
care in the community. (Motion, p. 1.) Defendant also argues that there is
nothing it, or its agents and employees, did or failed to do that caused or
contributed to Chavez’s death. (Motion, p. 1.) In addition, Defendant argues
that it cannot be liable for the actions of co-defendant Mike Chen, M.D. (“Dr.
Chen”), who was not Defendant’s employee, agent, or ostensible agent. 
          On April 22,
2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition brief and evidentiary objections. 
          On April 26,
2024, Defendant filed its reply papers and objections to Plaintiffs’ evidence. 
II.     LEGAL
STANDARDS
In reviewing a motion for summary
judgment, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) “[T]he
initial burden is always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that
there are no triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes,
Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant moving for summary
judgment or summary adjudication “has met his or her burden of showing that a
cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements
of the cause of action . . . cannot be established, or that there is a complete
defense to the cause of action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) 
III.    EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
A.   Plaintiffs’
Evidentiary Objections
Plaintiffs’
objections to the Declaration of Kathryn Biasotti fall into two categories.
First, Plaintiffs argue that the declaration “lacks foundation” and constitutes
hearsay. These objections are not well-taken. The records referred to are
accompanied by a declaration from the custodian of records. (Index of Exhibits,
Ex. A.) Also, medical records are subject to the business records exception to
the rule against hearsay. (See Evid. Code, § 1271.) Therefore, Objection
Nos. 1 through 23 are OVERRULED. 
Second,
Plaintiffs argue that Defendant’s expert, Kathryn Biasotti, is not qualified to
provide an expert opinion on the standard of care for nursing in Southern
California because her training is limited to perioperative nursing, not
critical or intensive care, and it is unclear if she has ever practiced nursing
in Southern California. However, as further discussed below, the opinions that
Plaintiffs object to are not relevant to this motion. Plaintiffs do not dispute
that Defendant and hospital staff “at all times complied with the processes
surrounding [Chavez]’s craniectomy surgery on May 20, 2021, and were fully
compliant with the standard of care by following Dr. Mike Chen’s surgical
orders and Dr. Eugene Wong’s anesthesia orders. (Response to Separate
Statement, UMF No. 86.) Therefore, the Court does not need to rule on Objection
Nos. 24-26, and they are preserved for appellate review. (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (q).) 
B.   Defendant’s
Evidentiary Objections
Defendant
objects to the declaration of Jessica Chavez on the grounds that it lacks
foundation and expresses an opinion “contrary to supporting evidence.” The
objections are OVERRULED. 
IV.    DISCUSSION
In a medical malpractice action,
a plaintiff must establish the following elements: “(1) the duty of the
professional to use such skill, prudence, and diligence as other members of his
profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a
proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting
injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's
negligence.  [citations.]” (Galvez v.
Frields (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 1410, 1420.) A
defendant moving for summary judgment in a medical malpractice action
must “present evidence that would preclude a reasonable trier of fact from
finding it was more likely than not that their treatment fell below the
standard of care.” (Johnson v. Superior
Court (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 297, 305.) “When a defendant moves for summary
judgment and supports his motion with expert declarations that his conduct fell within the
community standard of care, he is entitled to summary judgment unless the
plaintiff comes forward with conflicting expert evidence.” (Munro v. Regents of University of California
(1989) 215 Cal.3d 977, 984-985.)
Defendant supports its motion for
summary judgment with the expert declaration of Kathryn Biasotti, BSN, MBA,
CPHRM, LNCC (“Nurse Biasotti”). Nurse Biasotti is a Registered Nurse who
obtained her nursing degree in 1988 from California State University,
Sacramento, with a specialty emphasis on Perioperative Nursing. (Index of
Exhibits, Biasotti Decl., ¶ 1.) In 2018, Nurse Biasotti received a Master of
Business Healthcare Administration Degree from Western Governors University.
Between 1988 and 1989, she worked as a Medical Surgical Nurse with Health Force
Traveling Nurse Registry. (Ibid.) Between 1988 to 2017, she was employed
by the Barton Health System, South Lake Tahoe, CA, in several different
capacities, including Perioperative Nurse Circulator and Scrub Nurse, Interim
Director of Surgical Services/Unit Leader, Director of Quality & Risk
Management & System Compliance Officer, and “Administrative Director of
Legal, Risk Management & System Corporate Compliance Officer.” (Ibid.)
In 2019, Nurse Biasotti served Kaiser West LA Medical Center in the capacity of
Interim Risk Manager. (Ibid.) From 2020 to 2021, she served as Interim
Director of Quality and Risk Management at Grande Ronde critical access
hospital in La Grande, Oregon. (Ibid.) From February 2022 until May
2023, she served as an interim Clinical Risk Manager for Peace Health in
Vancouver, Washington. (Ibid.) She is currently the Principal at KB
Consulting Services. (Ibid.)
Nurse Biasotti declares that she
reviewed Chavez’s medical records, the pleadings, the deposition transcripts of
Plaintiffs and Dr. Chen, the declaration of Dr. Gabriel Zada which was filed in
support of Dr. Chen’s summary judgment motion, and the responses of Mario
Chavez to Defendant’s special interrogatories. (Id., ¶ 2.) She describes
the actions taken by the different doctors, including the emergency department
physician, neurologist, nephrologist, oncologist, and the neurosurgeon, Dr.
Chen. (Id., ¶¶ 4(c)-(i). The first mention of any involvement by
Defendant’s nurses leading up to the craniotomy and biopsy is in paragraph 4(h),
in which Nurse Biasotti states that nurses assessed Chavez “as confused with
her son at the bedside.” Nurse Biasotti also notes that a nurse was a witness
to Mario Chavez’s signature for an informed consent form on May 18, 2021. The
next reference to any nurses or staff before the procedure involves another
doctor, identified only as “Dr. Yong”, who “authored a brief update note at
1327 about nursing calling her about family wishes for Ms. Chavez’s code status
to be changed to a DNR.” (Biasotti Decl., ¶ 4(l).) The next four subparagraphs
describe how consent for anesthesia was obtained, and state that the procedures
were performed by the physicians “[a]fter verification of informed consent and
preoperative checklist completion.” (Id., ¶ 4(m)-(p).) 
Nurse Biasotti resumes her discussion
of Defendant’s nurses’ actions in subparagraph (q) when she states that on May
21, 2021, after the procedure was completed, the nurses documented Chavez’s
“continued confusion, PERRLA, and pulling out her IV.” (Id., ¶ 4(q).) She
states again in subparagraph (s) that the nurses documented Chavez’s confusion
and noted that Dr. Chen rounded on Ms. Chavez and issued a few orders,
including an order for an MRI; the nurse also noted at 1700, when Chavez
returned from the MRI, that she had “a slight facial droop on the left side of
the nasolabial fold”, “was still lethargic from the Haldol and Ativan
[prescribed earlier by Dr. Chen], not eating because of lethargy, would arouse
to voice, PERRLA, and practitioners including Dr. Chen were notified of new
findings.” Next, on May 22, 2021, Critical Care Nurse Practitioner Jessica
Maganda, with an attending physician, documented that Chavez “was awake, [sic]
slow mentation, and minimally conversive and on neuro exam [sic], her pupils
were equal, round, and reactive.” (Id., ¶ 4(t).) Nurse Maganda also
noted Chavez was lethargic and “an NG tube was inserted for nutrition.” (Ibid.)
On May 23, 2021, Registered Nurse Aleksey Inokhodov documented Chavez’s lungs
as “being more coarse than the day before” and noted that her left pupil was
“slightly-oval shaped, [sic] more evident when lights are completely off in the
room”; he reported this finding to Dr. Yong. (Id., ¶ 4(u).) He also
documented intermittent facial twitching and that Chavez “was no longer PERRLA,
was obtunded” and he spoke on the phone with a physician who ordered a Stat CT
without contrast. (Ibid.) Nurse Inokhodov additionally documented that the
Critical Care team and physicians discussed the plan of care. (Ibid.) On
May 26, 2021, Registered Nurse Chanel Rosecrans Seemann and Critical Care nurse
practitioner Beltran documented lengthy discussions between Dr. Chen and the
family. Nurse Seemann also documented that Chavez was becoming hypotensive. (Id.
¶¶ 4(x)-(y).) On May 27, 2021, the night shift nurse reported to the day shift
that Chavez had episodes of hypotension. (Id., ¶ 4(aa).) The
tele-intensivist was contacted and doses of Dilantin “were held.” (Ibid.)
Other physicians documented additional discussions with family and the decision
to plan for compassionate extubation. (Ibid.) At 11:20, RN Seeman
documented that Chavez was compassionately extubated with family at bedside,
and she was resting comfortably with oxygen at four liters nasal cannula and a
morphing drip. (Id., ¶¶ 4(bb).) On May 28, 2021, Chavez was noted to be
on a morphine drip at 6 milligrams per hour and appeared comfortable, with no
signs of distress; she expired at 9:15 p.m. (Id., ¶¶ 4(dd)-(ee).) 
Nurse Biasotti opines that Defendant
and its staff complied with the applicable standard of care by adequately
assessing Chavez’s condition. (Biasotti Decl., ¶ 7.) She states that the staff
carried out all physician orders, and properly reported any and all material
changes in Chavez’s condition while she was admitted to Defendants hospital
from May 16 to May 28, 2021. (Ibid.) She also opines that the standard
of care was met because the staff followed Dr. Chen’s surgical orders and the
anesthesiologist’s anesthesia orders during the craniectomy surgery on May 20,
2021. (Id., ¶¶ 6-7.) Nurse Biasotti also opines that Defendant’s staff
confirmed proper informed consent was obtained and that no act or omission by
Defendant or the hospital staff involved in Chavez’s care and treatment
contributed to her death. 
In opposition, Plaintiffs submit the
declaration of Jessica Chavez, BSN, RN (“Nurse Chavez”). Nurse Chavez earned
her nursing degree in 2012 from California State University in Fullerton,
California. (Chavez Decl., ¶ 1.) She currently works as a registered nurse in a
family practice office and has previously worked as a Registered Nurse in the
Neuro-Intensive Care Unit at Kaiser Permanente Los Angeles Medical Center and
as a Critical Care Nurse in the Critical Care Unit at Kaiser Permanente Baldwin
Medical Center. (Ibid.) She also currently works in an outpatient clinic
in the field of physical medicine and rehabilitation, with emphasis on the
spine, bones, and muscles. (Ibid.) 
          Like Nurse Biasotti, Nurse
Chavez reviewed Chavez’s medical records; Nurse Chavez also reviewed Nurse
Biasotti’s declaration. (Id., ¶ 2.) She bases her expert opinion on her
review of Chavez’s medical records, her experience, training and education, and
her “numerous personal interactions, communications with hospital staff during
[Chavez]’s May 2021 hospitalization.” (Id., ¶ 3.) Her opinions are also
based on her personal exchanges with the medical staff. (Ibid.) Nurse
Chavez states that Chavez presented to the emergency department with
significant hyponatremia (low sodium), poor metabolic profile, suspected
urinary tract infection, confusion, and weakness. (Id., ¶ 4.) A
nephrologist, Sevag Balikian, M.D. (“Dr. Balikian”) noted on May 16, 2021, that
Chavez’s sodium needed to be managed appropriately and slowly increased. (Id.
¶ 8.) Nurse Chavez states that after the biopsy was performed on May 21, 2021,
Chavez’s hyponatremia and metabolic levels remained severe and she continued to
decline neurologically and physically. (Id., ¶ 11.) Nurse Chavez states
she had various interactions with different nurses and at least one physician’s
assistant from May 17 through May 28, 2021, but they “routinely demonstrated
that they were unaware of and not properly monitoring [Chavez]’s worsening
hyponatremia and declining clinical condition, and were often ignorant of basic
clinical data, such as her vitals, nutrition, heart rate, metabolic rate, and
other factors.” (Id. ,¶ 12.) Nurse Chavez also noted that the nurses and
physician assistant “demonstrated an unwillingness to confront and communicate
with physicians, and with [Dr. Balikian] and [Dr. Chen] on important clinical
information (such as increased brain swelling and decreased cognitive function).”
(Ibid.) 
Nurse Chavez opines that Defendant and
its employees did not comply with the standard of care because “the nurses and physician
assistant [should have] taken more reasonable steps within the standard of care
to contact physicians (including Dr. Balikian and Dr. Chen) to advise them of
the uncontrolled hyponatremia, declining cognitive/physical symptoms, and other
alarming developments.” (Id., ¶ 20.) Nurse Chavez states that the
nursing and hospital staff mismanaged Chavez’s hyponatremia and metabolic
levels and failed to adequately and reasonably communicate urgent clinical
information to the physicians, such as the fact that Chavez was experiencing
continuing seizures, so that they could make medical decisions to manage
uncontrolled sodium levels, intercranial pressure, confusion, discomfort, and
mental distress. (Id., ¶¶ 22, 26.) Nurse Chavez also opines that to a
reasonable degree of nursing probability, Defendant’s employees’ actions and
omissions caused or contributed to increased intercranial swelling, severe
seizures that weakened and scared Chavez (to the extent she was able to
comprehend them), drained her of energy, and continued to shock her system, ultimately
causing her decline and death. (Id., ¶ 21.) 
Nurse Chavez also states that it is her
opinion that Defendant “lacked a clear system and work culture for nurses to
contact and keep physicians informed of crucial clinical developments involving
[Chavez].” (Id., ¶ 24.) She states that there were several instances
where she was told by nurses that Dr. Chen could not be reached. (Ibid.)
In addition, she states that the charge nurse referred to Dr. Chen as “an ass”
who never responds to calls and that, in substance, the hospital staff
typically needed to “dig everywhere to find him.” (Id., ¶ 25.) Nurse
Chavez states that the nurses and physician assistants should have escalated
their concerns to a different physician or taken more efforts to locate Dr.
Chen. (Ibid.) 
On reply, Defendant argues that the
opposition brief should be disregarded because it is untimely. Plaintiffs
should have filed their opposition papers by April 19, 2024, but did not do so
until April 22, 2024. Nevertheless, the Court exercises its discretion to
consider the late-filed opposition papers. 
Next, Defendant attempts to discredit
Nurse Chavez by pointing out that she is the wife of one of the plaintiffs and
Chavez’s daughter-in-law. However, Defendant does not address any of Nurse
Chavez’s qualifications. The fact that Nurse Chavez may be related to the
decedent is not a reason to disregard her expert opinion; her credibility is
for the factfinder to assess. 
Last, Defendant argues that Nurse
Chavez’s opinions go outside the allegations of the pleadings. Defendant claims
that the alleged behavior at issue involves the craniectomy and biopsy
conducted on May 20, 2021, and Nurse Chavez’s opinions about the care provided
to Chavez after the procedure are irrelevant. 
“[I]f a plaintiff wishes to introduce issues not
encompassed in the original pleadings, the plaintiff must seek leave to amend
the complaint at or prior to the hearing on the motion for summary judgment.” (Laabs
v. City of Victorville (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1242, 1257.) New factual
issues presented in opposition to a summary judgment motion should be
considered if the pleading, construed broadly, encompasses them. (Ibid.)
“In making this determination, courts look to whether the new factual issues
present different theories of recovery or rest on a fundamentally different
factual basis.” (Ibid.) In cases that find new factual issues are not
encompassed by the original pleadings, “the plaintiff did not merely elaborate
or add further detail to a claim which was predicated on the same fundamental
facts set forth in the complaint. Rather, there was a complete shift in
allegations, usually involving an effort to premise civil liability on acts or
omissions committed at different times or by different persons than those
described in the claim.” (Blair v. Superior Court (1990) 218 Cal.App.3d
221, 226.) 
Plaintiffs alleged in their initial
Complaint that a craniectomy and biopsy were negligently performed,
specifically because the navigation unit failed during the procedure or
immediately before it. (Compl., p. 6.) Plaintiffs charge Dr. Chen and Defendant
with conducting a “blind” biopsy which resulted in the removal of healthy brain
material, leading to severe cognitive failure and decline. (Id.) There
are no allegations that Defendant acted negligently in providing care to Chavez
after the procedure. Therefore, Plaintiffs’ opposition brief is attempting to
create a triable issue of fact concerning events which fall outside the
parameters of their Complaint. 
Plaintiffs’ discovery responses, served
recently on September 2023, confirm that their theory of liability is limited
to the way the craniectomy was performed. Defendant attaches a copy of
plaintiff Virginia Chavez’s responses to its special interrogatories. Virginia
Chavez was asked to “[s]et forth and identify those acts or omissions that
[she] contend[s] constitute negligence, or other wrongful conduct, by
[Defendant].” (Def.’s Index of Exhibits, Ex. I, SROG Nos. 1-2.) She was also
requested to identify the facts upon which she based her negligence claim
against Defendant’s employees. (Id., SROG No. 6.) Virginia Chavez
repeatedly stated in response to these interrogatories that Defendant
negligently proceeded to perform a “blind” biopsy after the ExacTrac System
failed, and the biopsy was negligently performed and resulted in the removal of
healthy brain material. 
Moreover, the Court looks to
Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file an amended complaint, filed on April 19,
2024 (which is the day that their opposition brief to this summary judgment
motion was actually due). Plaintiffs seek leave to amend the complaint to “clarify”
the allegations supporting their negligence claim; in reality, the proposed
amendments add allegations that Defendant “fail[ed] to adequately manage and
treat [Chavez]’s hyponatremia, and [sic] post-surgical epilleptic [sic]
seizures.” Plaintiffs do not explain in their moving papers why the amendment
was not requested earlier and Plaintiffs’ counsel only vaguely alludes to the
“revelation of vital new information in discovery.” Plaintiffs attempt to
remedy this in supplemental briefing, in which they argue that there is good
cause for granting leave to amend the complaint because their counsel was
unable to confer with plaintiff, Jose Chavez, before he passed on February 8,
2024, and their counsel believed it should confer with the five remaining plaintiffs
before moving to amend the complaint. This claim is undercut by the fact that
Plaintiffs filed a request for dismissal on February 16, 2024. In a separate
minute order, this Court denied Plaintiffs’ motion for leave to file an amended
complaint “clarifying” the allegations of general negligence; the Court
incorporates the reasons for the denial into this order ruling on Methodist
Hospital’s motion for summary judgment.
Because Plaintiffs do not offer an
expert declaration disputing whether Defendant acted negligently with respect
to the craniectomy and biopsy, Plaintiffs do not meet their burden to show that
a triable issue of material fact exists. 
V.      CONCLUSION
          In light of
the foregoing, the motion for summary judgment is GRANTED.
Moving party to give notice.  
Dated
this 12th
day of June 2024
 




 


 




 


William
  A. Crowfoot
Judge of the Superior Court




 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at AHLDEPT3@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the
instructions provided on the court’s website at www.lacourt.org. Please be
advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter. Unless you receive a submission from all other parties in the
matter, you should assume that others might appear at the hearing to argue. If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.