  Case Number:  20CHCV00239    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  F43 Dept. F43
Date: 4-23-24
Case #20CHCV00239, Christopher Mack, et al. vs. Julio
Torres, et al.
Trial Date: N/A
 
MOTION FOR ORDER TO SHOW CAUSE RE: CONTEMPT
 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiffs Christopher Mack, et al.
RESPONDING PARTY: No response has been filed.
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Plaintiffs have requested that the Court find
Defendant/Citee Julio Torres in contempt of court for his failure to return a
vehicle.
 
RULING: Denied without prejudice
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION AND ANALYSIS
It is unclear if Plaintiff Christopher Mack (Mack), trustee
for the Lamb Mooie Trust, or Wayne R. Tanaka (Tanaka), also listed as trustee
and the one who signed the affidavits, filed the motion. Whatever the case, the
moving party, in pro per, has requested that the Court issue an order to show
cause re: contempt against Defendant Julio Torres (Torres). It appears that the
moving party has moved for this order pursuant to CCP § 1209(a)(5). That
section categorizes “disobedience of any lawful judgment, order, or process of
the court” as a contempt of the authority of the court. (CCP § 1209(a)(5).)
 
Tanaka’s affidavit that was filed with the motion indicates
that Plaintiffs obtained a judgment against Torres, and in August 2023 Torres
was served with the judgment. (Tanaka Affidavit, ¶ 1.) This judgment allegedly required
that Torres release the 1973 Dodge Challenger to Plaintiffs, but Defendant has
refused to do so and claims that he demands storage fees for the release. (Tanaka
Affidavit, ¶¶ 3-4.) 
 
There are a few issues with Plaintiffs’ motion. First, the
motion purports to have a Declaration from a Gannon McPhillips, but no such
declaration is attached. The motion also claims to have a proof of service of
the judgment attached to it (Tanaka Affidavit, ¶ 2), but the indicated proof of
service is not attached to the motion. There is a proof of service document attached
to the motion, but it is unsigned and is for a “proposed judgment” document
allegedly served on March 1, 2024. Next, Tanaka claims that he was required to
obtain attorney services to file the motion (Tanaka Affidavit, ¶ 10), but the
motion appears to have been filed in pro per. Finally, there was no points and
authorities with the motion.
 
Based on the issues with the motion, the motion for an order
to show cause re: contempt is denied without prejudice.