 Case Number:  24STCV17180    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  73 09/06/2024 
Dept. 73 
Hon. Rolf
Treu, Judge presiding 
 
FENIX ENTREPRENEUR, INC. v. SUN DO HONG (24STCV17180) 
 
Counsel for
Plaintiff/opposing party: Justin Rodriguez (Justice Law Partners, Inc.)
Counsel for
Defendant/moving party:  Jacob Iloulian (Law Office of Jacob Illoulian) 
 
DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT (filed 8/06/2024) 
 
TENTATIVE RULING 
 
Defendant’s
demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.
 
I. BACKGROUND
 
On June 11,
2024, Plaintiff Fenix Entrepreneur, Inc. (“Plaintiff”) filed the instant
interpleader action against Defendant Sun Do Hong (“Defendant”). 
 
The Complaint
for Interpleader alleges the following. Martin Fierro, in his capacity as
officer of Fenix Entrepreneur, Inc., entered
into a Purchase Agreement on or about January 20, 2023 to purchase one-half
(1/2) interest in the subject property located at 6836 Crenshaw Blvd. Los
Angeles, CA 90043. The property prior to acceptance of Plaintiff’s offer to
purchase one-half (1/2) interest subject property was vested as Joint Tenants
between brother of Sun Do Hong and sister Sun Be Hong. Plaintiff deposited into Escrow a check for $5,000.00. Approximately 6
months after the opening of the Escrow, Sun Do Hong filed a Complaint to Partition
the subject property with a corresponding Motion to have a Court Appoint a
Referee to oversee the sale. Plaintiff is requesting the court to determine
that it has a valid stake in the property based on their purchase agreement
dated January 20, 2023.
 
On August 5,
2024, the Court found that the following cases, Hong v. Hong Case No. 23STCV12280 and Fenix
Entrepreneur, Inc. v. Hong Case No. 24STCV17180, are related within the
meaning of California Rules of Court, rule 3.300(a). 23STCV12280 is the lead
case.
 
On
August 6, 2024, Defendant filed the Demurrer to the Complaint, arguing:
·      
Plaintiff
fails to state a cause of action for interpleader:
o  
Insufficient
allegation of conflicting claims
o  
Lack of
proper stakeholder status
o  
Failure to
deposit property or money
·      
The Complaint
is also uncertain
 
Plaintiff
filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
Defense
counsel failed to meet and confer
·      
 Plaintiff is a stakeholder
·      
The Court
should reconsider its May 1, 2024 ruling establishing a court supervised
partition

Defendant did not file a reply.
 
II.DISCUSSION
 
A.     Legal
Standard for Demurrer
 
A demurrer tests the sufficiency of whether the complaint
states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context—any
defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial
notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968,
994.) “A demurrer tests the pleading alone, and not the evidence or facts
alleged.” (E-Fab, Inc. v. Accountants, Inc. Servs. (2007) 153
Cal.App.4th 1308, 1315.) As such, the court assumes the truth of the
complaint’s properly pleaded or implied factual allegations. (Id.) The
only issue a demurrer is concerned with is whether the complaint, as it stands,
states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at p.
747.) 
 
B.     Meet and
Confer Requirement 
 
“Before
filing a demurrer pursuant to this chapter, the demurring party shall meet and
confer in person or by telephone with the party who filed the pleading that is
subject to demurrer for the purpose of determining whether an agreement can be
reached that would resolve the objections to be raised in the demurrer.” (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).)  
 
Here, counsel for Defendant submitted a declaration stating “I have reached out to Plaintiff to meet and confer regarding
this demurrer. At the time of the signing of this declaration, we have not been
able to resolve the issues of the demurrer.” (Iloulian Decl., ¶ 4.) Defendant’s counsel also filed a supplemental declaration
attaching an email chain in which he and Plaintiff’s counsel emailed regarding
scheduling a time to meet and confer. (Iloulian
Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. 1.)
 
Plaintiff argues that Defendant failed to meet
and confer. 
 
Since Defendant’s counsel failed to meet and confer in person or
by telephone, the Court finds the moving party has not met its obligation to
meet and confer. However, an insufficient meet and confer process is not
grounds to overrule or sustain a demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc., §
430.41(a)(4).) Thus, the Court continues its discussion on the merits of the
motion.
 
C.    
Demurrer to Complaint
 
Defendant demurs to the Complaint for uncertainty and failure
to state a cause of action.
 
As a general matter, “[d]emurrers for
uncertainty are disfavored, and are granted only if the pleading is so
incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably respond.” (Lickiss v.
Fin. Industry Regulatory Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135.) A
demurrer for uncertainty does not address whether the pleading fails to
“incorporate sufficient facts in the pleading but is directed at the
uncertainty existing in the allegations actually made.” (Butler v. Sequeira
(1950) 100 Cal.App.2d 143, 145-146.) Rather, a demurrer is intended to address
whether a pleading is so incomprehensible that a defendant cannot understand
the allegations actually made. (Id. at p. 146.)
 
Here, the Complaint is not
incomprehensible because it generally alleges that Plaintiff has a stake in the subject
property based on the purchase agreement dated January 20, 2023 between
Plaintiff and Sun Be Hong. (Complaint, ¶¶ 1-8.) Defendant’s
arguments largely pertain to failure to state sufficient facts. Thus, the
demurrer for uncertainty is unsubstantiated and overruled.
 
Next, Defendant asserts that
Plaintiff fails to state a cause of action for interpleader. 
 
When a person may be subject to
conflicting claims for money or property, the person may bring an interpleader
action to compel the claimants to litigate their claims among themselves. (CCP
§ 386(b); City of Morgan Hill v. Brown (1999) 71 Cal.App.4th 1114,
1122.) Once the person admits liability and deposits the money with the court,
he or she is discharged from liability and freed from the obligation of
participating in the litigation between the claimants. (City of Morgan Hill,
supra, 71 Cal.App.4th 1114, 1122.) C.C.P. § 386(b) requires only that the
stakeholder file a verified pleading disclaiming any interest in the money or
property claimed; it is the stakeholder's avowed disinterest in the
interpleaded proceeds that gives him the right to interplead. (Cantu v.
Resolution Trust Corp. (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 857, 873.)
 
CCP § 386 provides in relevant part:
(b) Any person, firm, corporation, association or other entity
against whom double or multiple claims are made, or may be made, by two or more
persons which are such that they may give rise to double or multiple liability,
may bring an action against the claimants to compel them to interplead and
litigate their several claims. When the person, firm, corporation, association
or other entity against whom such claims are made, or may be made, is a
defendant in an action brought upon one or more of such claims, it may either
file a verified cross-complaint in interpleader, admitting that it has no
interest in the money or property claimed, or in only a portion thereof, and
alleging that all or such portion is demanded by parties to such action, and
apply to the court upon notice to such parties for an order to deliver such
money or property or such portion thereof to such person as the court shall
direct; or may bring a separate action against the claimants to compel them to
interplead and litigate their several claims. The action of interpleader may be
maintained although the claims have not a common origin, are not identical but
are adverse to and independent of one another, or the claims are unliquidated
and no liability on the part of the party bringing the action or filing the
cross-complaint has arisen. The applicant or interpleading party may deny
liability in whole or in part to any or all of the claimants. The applicant or
interpleading party may join as a defendant in such action any other party
against whom claims are made by one or more of the claimants or such other
party may interplead by cross-complaint; provided, however, that such claims
arise out of the same transaction or occurrence.
. . .
(f) After any such complaint or cross-complaint in
interpleader has been filed, the court in which it is filed may enter its order
restraining all parties to the action from instituting or further prosecuting
any other proceeding in any court in this state affecting the rights and
obligations as between the parties to the interpleader until further order of
the court
 
The Court does not find that Plaintiff has properly set forth
an interpleader claim. A claim for interpleader must be brought by a neutral
party seeking to resolve multiple conflicting claims by other parties. C.C.P. § 386(b) requires that the stakeholder file a verified
pleading disclaiming any interest in the money or property claimed. Here, Plaintiff has not filed a verified pleading disclaiming
any interest in the property. Instead, Plaintiff alleges that it has a stake in the subject
property pursuant to the purchase agreement dated January 20, 2023 between Plaintiff and
Sun Be Hong. (Complaint, ¶¶
7-8.) Thus, Plaintiff is not a
neutral party and is not the proper party to bring an interpleader claim.
 
Further, there
is no indication in the Opposition that Plaintiff would be able to cure the
defects of the Complaint. (Rakestraw v. California Physicians' Service
(2000) 81 Cal. App. 4th 39, 43.) The burden is on
the plaintiff to show the court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Lewis
v. YouTube, LLC (2015) 244 Cal.App.4th 118, 226.) There is no
basis in law to grant leave to amend where, “the facts are not in dispute and
the nature of the claim is clear but no liability exists under substantive
law.” (Casterson v. Sup. Ct. (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 177, 190.) 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.
 
III. CONCLUSION 
 
Defendant’s demurrer is sustained without leave to amend.