 Case Number:  23STCV09851    Hearing Date:   September 6, 2024    Dept:  73 9/06/2024
Dept. 73
Hon.
Rolf Treu, Judge presiding 
 
MARILEE MALES v. COUNTY OF LOS
ANGELES, et al. (23STCV09851)
 
Counsel
for Plaintiff/moving party:  Mark
Valencia (Valencia & Cywinska, ALC)
Counsel
for Defendant/opposing party:  Thomas
Hurrell (Hurrell Cantrall LLP)
 
MOTION TO COMPEL PRODUCTION OF DOCUMENTS FROM DEFENDANT COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES AND REQUEST FOR ATTORNEYS’ FEES (filed 06/07/24)
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to request
for production of document Nos. 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, and 74. Defendant shall provide code-compliant responses within 20 days.
 
The
Court further GRANTS Plaintiff’s requests for monetary sanctions against Defendant
and its counsel of record in the amount of $7,500.00. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to Plaintiff’s counsel
within 20 days of the date of this order. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On May 2,
2023, Plaintiff Marilee Males (“Plaintiff”) filed this employment action
against Defendants County of Los Angeles and Los Angeles County Department of
Public Health (collectively, “Defendants”).
 
On August 3, 2023, Plaintiff filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”)
alleging the following causes of action:
1.     
Religious Creed Discrimination – Failure to
Accommodate In Violation of Cal. Gov. Code §12940(l)
2.     
Retaliation in Violation of Cal. Gov. Code
§12940(l)(4)
3.     
Discrimination in Violation of Cal. Gov. Code
§12940(l)(4)
4.     
Retaliation in Violation of Cal. Gov. Code §12940(h)
5.     
Failure to Prevent Discrimination and Retaliation in
Violation of Govt. Code §12940(k)
6.     
Labor Code §1102.5
 
The
FAC alleges the following. Plaintiff is a Christian. Plaintiff has worked for Defendants
from May 8, 2018 through January 2023. Specifically, Plaintiff was a
Supervising Health Facilities Evaluator, Nursing, within the Los Angeles County
Department of Health. Plaintiff
requested an exemption from the COVID-19 vaccine on account of sincerely held
religious beliefs. Plaintiff alleges she was wrongfully terminated. In the
letter terminating Plaintiff’s employment, Defendants stated: “The basis for
this action is your failure to comply with the Notice of Vaccination
Requirement.”
 
On
June 7, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant Motion to Compel
Production of Documents from Defendant County of Los Angeles and Request for
Attorneys’ Fees, arguing:
·       Plaintiff Males Request for
Production of Documents to Defendant County of Los Angeles: # 68, 69, 70, 71,
72, 73, and 74.
·       Pursuant to verified discovery
received from the County of Los Angeles, the County states that in relation to
Plaintiff’s department, as of April 14, 2023, there have only been 305
religious exemption requests, including Plaintiff’s request. (Decl. of Valencia,
Ex. 1 – Supplemental Response to Special Interrogatory No. 4). Out of those
applications, 87% were approved. 13% were denied.
·       Plaintiff seeks discovery of the
other filed forms from the other 305 employees [the employees names and
identifying information will be redacted, and assigned an identifying number
for this litigation only], as the evidence will show that other applicants that
had similar justifications to that of the Plaintiff had their accommodations
granted. Such evidence is crucial, as
it will prove that the County failed to accommodate Plaintiff, while
accommodating others asserting nearly the same/identical justifications.
·       There are no privacy issues,
especially given the fact that the names and id numbers of the employees will
be redacted. Given the redactions, the invasiveness is minimal and privacy
concerns are obviated. The justifications for the disclosure outweigh any
purported privacy interest, and accordingly balance in favor of disclosure.
·      
Plaintiff
requests a recoupment of fees no less than $7,500.00.
Defendant County of Los
Angeles filed an opposition, arguing:
·      
Plaintiff's Requests for Production, Nos. 68-74, have nothing to
do with Plaintiff's own application, which is the only application in question
in this case.
·      
The information at issue contains personal information and names
of the County's non-party employees, along with potentially going through their
employment histories, including changes in employment status or accommodations
to their employment. These requests “effectively seek the disclosure of
confidential, personnel records of nonwitness third parties.” (Life
Technologies Corp. v. Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 640, 652.)
·      
While Plaintiff does suggest to redact the names of these
employees, as well as their employee IDs, this does not cure the privacy issues
at place. There may still be extremely sensitive and confidential information
contained within the non-redacted portions.
·      
Plaintiff’s request for attorneys’ fees should be denied.
Plaintiff
filed a reply, arguing: 
·      
The requested evidence is crucial because it will show that other
applicants who had similar explanations to that of the Plaintiff, were indeed
granted a religious exemption. Such evidence could show that the County could have accommodated
Plaintiff as they had accommodated others, but they failed to do so. (Out of
305 religious exemption requests in Plaintiff’s department, 87% were approved.)
·       Given the redactions, the invasiveness is minimal and privacy concerns
are obviated.
·       Requests #68-74 are narrowly tailored. Plaintiff’s requests are not
overbroad. They are limited to Plaintiff’s department. The County has already
identified 305 religious exemption requests from Plaintiff’s department.
Accordingly, the number is limited.
·       Furthermore, the discovery sought is very specific. Plaintiff is not
seeking “ALL DOCUMENTS” but has specific forms being sought. Plaintiff is
requesting specific forms, with the longest form being 3 pages. (Decl. of
Valencia, Ex. 2-5.)
ANALYSIS
A.     
Legal Standard
 
Under
CCP § 2017.010, “any party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not
privileged, that is relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending
action..., if the matter either is itself admissible in evidence or appears
reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence.” 
The Section specifically provides that “[d]iscovery may relate to the claim or
defense of the party seeking discovery or of any other party to the action,”
and that discovery “may be obtained of the identity and location of persons
having knowledge of any discoverable matter, as well as of the existence,
description, nature, custody, condition and location of any document, electronically
stored information, tangible thing, or land or other property.” 
 
CCP
§ 2031.310(a) provides that a party demanding a document inspection may move
for an order compelling further responses to the demand if the demanding party
deems that: 
“(1)  
A statement of compliance with the demand is incomplete. 
 
(2)   A representation of inability to comply is inadequate,
incomplete, or evasive. 
 
(3)   An objection in the response is without merit or too
general.”   
 
Under
CCP § 2031.310 (b)(1), “The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the demand.”   
 
“In
the more specific context of a demand for production of a tangible thing, the
party who asks the trial court to compel production must show “good cause” for
the request—but unless there is a legitimate privilege issue or claim of
attorney work product, that burden is met simply by a fact-specific showing of
relevance.” (TBG Ins. Services Corp. v. Superior Court (2002) 96
Cal.App.4th 443, 448.)
 
B.     
Meet and Confer 
 
Before bringing a motion to compel further responses
to any discovery request, the moving party is required to make efforts to meet
and confer in good faith and must submit a declaration attesting to those
efforts. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2031.310(b)(2), 2030.300(b), 2033.290(b).) “A
meet and confer declaration in support of a motion shall state facts showing a
reasonable and good faith attempt at an informal resolution of each issue
presented by the motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2016.040.)
 
Here, Plaintiff’s counsel submits a declaration
stating she sent Defendant’s counsel a meet and confer letter asking them to
supplement discovery. Plaintiff’s counsel did not meet and confer in person or
by telephone, however the Court will not deny Plaintiff’s motion on this basis.
(See Obregon v. Sup. Ct. (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 434.) Thus, the
Court proceeds on the merits of the motion. 
 
C.     
Discussion
 
Plaintiff
is seeking responses to her Request for
Production of Documents to Defendant County of Los Angeles Nos. 68, 69, 70, 71,
72, 73, and 74.
Plaintiff seeks to compel the
following requests: 
RPD #68: All COVID-19 religious
exemption APPLICATIONS submitted to YOU from Plaintiff’s department through
January 25, 2023, with applicant’s names and corresponding id-numbers redacted
with a substituted ID number for this litigation. (“APPLICATION” means County
of Los Angeles Religious Accommodation Request Form and supporting materials submitted
along with Request Form.) 
RPD #69: All
“County of Los Angeles Denial of Request for Exemption” forms that YOU issued
to those who applied for a COVID-19 religious exemption from Plaintiff’s
department through January 25, 2023, with applicant’s names and corresponding
id-numbers redacted with a substituted ID number for this litigation. 
RPD #70: Any
forms that YOU issued to those who applied for a COVID-19 religious exemption
from Plaintiff’s department through January 25, 2023 approving the request for
religious exemption, with applicant’s names and corresponding id-numbers
redacted with a substituted ID number for this litigation. 
RPD #71: Any
letters that YOU sent to YOUR employees informing them that YOU had approved
their request for religious exemption from Plaintiff’s department through
January 25, 2023, with applicant’s names and corresponding id-numbers redacted
with a substituted ID number for this litigation. 
RPD #72: All
“County of Los Angeles Religious Accommodation Clarification” forms that YOU
received from those who applied for a COVID-19 religious exemption from
Plaintiff’s department through January 25, 2023, with applicant’s names and
corresponding id-numbers redacted with a substituted ID number for this
litigation. 
RPD #73: All
“Request for Reconsideration Following Department Denial of Exemption to
COVID-19 Vaccinate Mandate” forms that YOU received from those who applied for
a COVID-19 religious exemption from Plaintiff’s department through January 25,
2023, with applicant’s names and corresponding id-numbers redacted with a
substituted ID number for this litigation.
RPD #74: All
“Notice of Final Determination for Exemption From the COVID19 Vaccination
Policy” forms that YOU issued to those who applied for a COVID-19 religious
exemption from Plaintiff’s department through January 25, 2023, with
applicant’s names and corresponding id-numbers redacted with a substituted ID
number for this litigation.
Defendant
asserts the following objections: This request is vague and overbroad as to the
use of the phrase "religious exemption." This request is also unduly
burdensome, as it requests "all" APPLICATIONS through January 25,
2023. Such a request will also cause undue hardship on the Responding Party, as
it would require the disclosure of hundreds of documents. Furthermore, this
request also seeks documents subject to the official information privilege, and
deliberative process privileges, as well as documents that would infringe on
privacy rights of third-party employees, who are not part of this litigation.
See Article I, Section 1 of the California Constitution; the U.S. Constitution;
and Valley Bank of Nevada v. Superior Court (1975) 15 Cal. 3d 652, 657. Lastly,
the requested documents are contained within numerous respective employee
personnel files, which further makes this request violative of privacy rights.
As such, there are no responsive, unprivileged documents, that can be produced
for this request.
The Court finds that Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause as to
why the information sought in these requests is necessary and relevant to her
case. The requested information is relevant to Plaintiff’s allegation that
Defendant failed to accommodate her religious belief. The requests are narrowly
tailored, not overbroad and Defendant has not shown that responding to these
requests would be unduly burdensome. 
 
Further, given that the names and ID numbers of the employees will
be redacted, the Court finds that any privacy interests is minimal. (See
Pioneer Electronics (USA), Inc. v. Superior Court (2007) 40 Cal.4th 360,
371 ("[protective
measures, safeguards and other alternatives may minimize the privacy
intrusion"].) In Defendant’s opposition, Defendant relies on Life
Technologies Corp. v. Superior Court (2011) 197 Cal.App.4th 640. In Life
Technologies Corp., The plaintiff sought information regarding: (1) the
names of all employees terminated during a two-year period; (2) the department
each employee worked for when terminated; (3) the date of termination; (4) the
age of each employee at termination; (5) the reason for termination; (6) the
identity (including name, address and telephone number) of all former Applied
Biosystems employees still employed by the defendant after the reduction in
force; and (7) whether the terminated employees were former employees of
Applera or Applied Biosystems. (Id. at pp. 647- 648.) The defendant objected on the
grounds that the information was irrelevant and implicated the privacy rights
of third parties. (Id. at p. 648.) Here, Plaintiff is not seeking the
names, identities, etc. of the other employees. Thus, the Court finds justifications
for the disclosure outweigh any purported privacy interest.
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to request
for production of document Nos. 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, and 74.
 
D.     Attorneys’
Fees
 
Pursuant to
Code of Civil Procedure §§2031.300 and 2031.310, the court shall impose a
monetary sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully
makes or opposes a motion for request of production of documents . . . unless
it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification. (Cal. Civ. Pro. Code §2031.300(c).)
 
Plaintiff
requests recoupment of fees no less than $7,500.00. Plaintiff’s counsel asserts
he spent 17 hours of attorney work on the instant motion and his usual rate is $850
an hour. (Valencia Decl., ¶¶ 13-19.)
 
Since the Court grants Plaintiff’s motion, the Court finds
sanctions are warranted. The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request for sanctions in
the amount of $7,500 against Defendant and its
counsel of record. 
 
DISPOSITION
 
The Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion to compel responses to request
for production of document Nos. 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, and 74. Defendant shall provide code-compliant responses within 20 days.
 
The
Court further GRANTS Plaintiff’s requests for monetary sanctions against Defendant
and its counsel of record in the amount of $7,500.00. Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to Plaintiff’s counsel
within 20 days of the date of this order. 