 Case Number:  22STCV41020    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
JANE DOE,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
LUIS DIAZ ROJAS, 
                        Defendant.
  


 
  Case No.:  22STCV41020
  Hearing Date:  September 18, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
plaintiff’s motion for sanctions  




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On December 30, 2022, Plaintiff Jane
Doe filed this action against Defendant Luis Diaz Rojas stemming from an
alleged sexual assault. 
            On July 25, 2023, Defendant filed three
motions stemming from Plaintiff’s failure to respond to Form Interrogatories,
Requests for Admission, and Requests for Production. The motions were heard on
August 16, 2023, wherein the Court accepted Plaintiff’s representation that she
was not served with the motions but deemed the motions served as of August 16
and ordered Plaintiff to respond to the subject discovery within 30 days.
Sanctions were denied. The Court also ordered the motions to be sealed because certain
exhibits filed in support of the motions contained Plaintiff’s real name
despite a protective order granted February 8, 2023.
            On August 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed
the instant motion for contempt and monetary sanctions on the grounds that
Defendant intentionally violated the Court’s protective order by including
Plaintiff’s real name in court filings. Defendant filed his opposition on
September 1, 2023. Plaintiff filed her reply on September 7, 2023.  
LEGAL STANDARD
Contempt
Sanctions (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 1209 et seq.)
“Disobedience of any lawful judgment,
order, or process of the court” constitutes an act in contempt of the court.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1209(a)(5).) “When a contempt is committed in the immediate
view and presence of the court, or of the judge at chambers, it may be punished
summarily.” (Id., § 1211(a).) “When the contempt is not committed in the
immediate view and presence of the court, or of the judge at chambers, an
affidavit shall be presented to the court or judge of the facts constituting
the contempt, or a statement of the facts by the referees or arbitrators, or
other judicial officers.” (Ibid.) 
            “Upon the answer and evidence taken,
the court or judge shall determine whether the person proceeded against is
guilty of the contempt charged, and if it be adjudged that the person is guilty
of the contempt, a fine may be imposed on the person not exceeding one thousand
dollars ($1,000), payable to the court, or the person may be imprisoned not
exceeding five days, or both.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1218(a).)
            “[T]he elements of contempt include
(1) a valid order, (2) knowledge of the order, (3) ability to comply with the
order, and (4) willful failure to comply with the order.” (Wanke,
Industrial, Commercial, Residential, Inc. v. Keck (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th
1151, 1168.) 
Monetary
Sanctions (Code Civ. Proc., § 177.5)
            “A judicial officer shall have the
power to impose reasonable money sanctions, not to exceed fifteen hundred
dollars ($1,500), notwithstanding any other provision of law, payable to the
court, for any violation of a lawful court order by a person, done without good
cause or substantial justification.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 177.5.) 
DISCUSSION
            Defendant’s counsel avers that he “inadvertently
failed to redact those portions of the documents which contained plaintiff's
true identity.” (Koorenny Decl. ¶ 5.) The exhibits at issue which contained
Plaintiff’s real name were proofs of service attached to the pertinent
discovery requests. Defendant served this discovery in January 2023, before the
Court’s protective order. The Court finds that Defendant made a clerical error
and did not intentionally violate a court order. Accordingly, sanctions are not
warranted.
            Additionally, the Court cautions
Plaintiff against engaging in gamesmanship. Plaintiff herself narrowly avoided sanctions
in the underlying discovery motions after failing to respond to discovery. Plaintiff
now seeks to sanction Defendant for filing those same motions, without any
evidence that Defendant intentionally violated a court order. This is not
well-taken.
CONCLUSION
            Plaintiff’s motion for sanctions is DENIED.
 