 Case Number:  23STCV06861    Hearing Date:   September 18, 2023    Dept:  32 


 
MAGARITA ISAIS DE
  RODRIGUEZ,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
 
UTOPIA MANAGEMENT, INC.,
  et al., 
                        Defendants.
  


 
  Case No.:  23STCV06861
  Hearing Date:  September 18, 2023
 
     [TENTATIVE]
  order RE:
defendants’ demurrers and motions to
  strike 




 


 



BACKGROUND
            On March 29, 2023, Plaintiff Margarita
Isais de Rodriguez initiated this action against Defendants Utopia Management,
Inc. and Rochelle Kiner. The operative First Amended Complaint was filed on
July 17, 2023. The FAC asserts causes of action for: (1) negligence; (2) breach
of the warranty of habitability; (3) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment;
(4) private nuisance; (5) unfair business practices; (6) conversion; and (7)
intentional infliction of emotional distress. 
            Beginning in March 2019, Plaintiff
was a tenant in the Subject Property owned and managed by Defendants. (FAC ¶¶
10-11.) Plaintiff alleges that during her tenancy, she was subject to multiple
substandard and dangerous conditions, including faulty carbon monoxide
detectors, faulty water heater, defective windows, broken garbage disposal,
defective ceiling fans, peeling walls, leaky faucets, loose tiles,
malfunctioning cabinets, rusty dish washer, and faulty electrical outlets. (Id.,
¶ 12.) Plaintiff allegedly provided notice of these conditions through a
move-in inspection report, formal written complaints, and repair requests. (Id.,
¶¶ 13-16.) Defendants allegedly ignored Plaintiff’s complaints or promised to
repair the defects but failed to follow through. (Id., ¶¶ 14, 19.)
            Around September 2020, Plaintiff
requested that Defendants hire an electrician after multiple power outages.
(FAC ¶ 20.) Defendants initially refused and then hired an unqualified
electrician to install new electrical equipment. (Ibid.) This resulted
in an electrical fire in November 2020 that destroyed the premises and
Plaintiff’s personal belongings. (Id., ¶ 21.) Plaintiff attributes the
fire to Defendants’ failure to timely respond to Plaintiff’s repair requests
and Defendants’ hiring of an unqualified electrician. (Id., ¶ 22.) 
            On August 16, 2023, Defendants filed
separate but identical demurrers and motions to strike. Plaintiff filed her
opposition on August 5, 2023. Defendants filed their reply on September 11,
2023.  
LEGAL STANDARD
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When
considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in
context. (Taylor v. City of Los
Angeles Dept. of Water and Power (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 1216, 1228.)
In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the
pleading or by proper judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.30, subd. (a).) A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. (SKF Farms v. Superior Court
(1984) 153 Cal.App.3d 902, 905.) Therefore, it lies only where the defects
appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Ibid.) The only issue involved in a
demurrer hearing is whether the complaint, as it stands, unconnected with
extraneous matters, states a cause of action. (Hahn, supra, 147 Cal.App.4th at 747.)
Any party, within the time allowed to
respond to a pleading, may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the
whole or any part of that pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b).) The
court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper, strike (1) any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading and (2) all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in
conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.
(Id., § 436.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of
the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id., § 437.)
MEET AND CONFER
Before filing a demurrer or a motion to
strike, the demurring or moving party is required to meet and confer with the
party who filed the pleading demurred to or the pleading that is subject to the
motion to strike for the purposes of determining whether an agreement can be
reached through a filing of an amended pleading that would resolve the objections
to be raised in the demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.41, 435.5.) The Court
notes that Defendants have complied with the meet and confer requirement. (See Vasandani
Decl.)
DISCUSSION
I.
Demurrer
            a. Negligence 
            Defendants argue that Plaintiff’s
claim for lost wages and earning capacity, as pled in the first cause of
action, is time-barred. An action for personal injury is subject to a two-year
limitations period. (Code Civ. Proc., § 335.1.) However, “[a]n action for
trespass upon or injury to real property” and “[a]n action for taking,
detaining, or injuring goods or chattels” is subject to a three-year statute of
limitations. (Id., § 338(b), (c)(1).) Plaintiff does not allege that she
lost income because she was physically injured in the fire, but because the premises
burned down and her personal belongings were destroyed. (See FAC ¶¶ 21, 22,
29.) In other words, the claim for lost wages is premised on “injury to real
property” and “injuring goods or chattels,” which is timely under the
three-year statute of limitations. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 338(b), (c)(1).)  
            Defendants themselves acknowledge
that the statute of limitations issue only applies “to the extent that the loss
of earning capacity/loss of wages is rooted in plaintiff’s personal injury
claims arising from the fire incident.” (Reply 3:12-15.) This impliedly
concedes that there is no statute of limitations issue with Plaintiff’s lost
wages claim to the extent it is based on property damage. (See also Dem. 11:1-2
[“To the extent that plaintiff is claiming property damage as a result of the
incident Defendant does not object to the same”].) 
To the extent Defendants are suggesting that
any lost wages constitute personal injury as a matter of law, this contention
is not well-taken. Defendants cite no authority for such a proposition. In fact,
Defendants acknowledge in their own motion to strike that “the nature of the
right sued upon and not the form of action nor the relief demanded determines
the applicability of the statute of limitations.” (Mtn. 6:11-13.) Therefore, if
the gravamen of the claim is damage to property, the three-year statute of
limitations applies even if the relief demanded is compensation for lost wages.
Such is the case here. 
“An injury is personal when it impairs the
well-being or the mental or physical health of the victim.” (McKinney v.
California Portland Cement Co. (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 1214, 1231.) Defendants
cite to distinguishable cases where lost income stemmed from personal injury. (See
McKinney, supra, 96 Cal.App.4th at p. 1218 [wrongful death from
asbestos]; Bonneau v. North S. R. Co. (1907) 152 Cal. 406, 408 [disabled
as a result of train derailment]; Connolly v. Pre-Mixed Concrete Co.
(1957) 49 Cal.2d 483 [leg injury leaves plaintiff unable to earn winnings in tennis
tournament].) By contrast, Plaintiff here claims lost wages from the destruction
of the premises and her personal belongings, which are property claims. 
 Defendants argue that “[d]amages incurred by
plaintiff due to hardships arising from the fire incident, are an element of
general damages and are not property damage.” (Reply 3:1-2.) First, loss of
income is considered special damages, not general damages. (See Beeman v.
Burling (1990) 216 Cal.App.3d 1586, 1599.) Furthermore, the cited case law
does not suggest that general damages and property damage are mutually
exclusive. Defendants insist that Plaintiff is alleging lost wages from
personal injury, but Defendants cannot define Plaintiff’s claim for her.
Plaintiff alleges that she lost income because the premises and her personal
belongings were destroyed. (FAC ¶¶ 21, 22, 29.) These are property claims.
Plaintiff does not allege, for example, that she was unable to work due to smoke
inhalation or burns. Defendants’ authority does not change the conclusion that
if Plaintiff’s lost wages stem from the destruction of property, the claim would
fall under the three-year statute of limitations for property claims.
Interpreting the complaint in Plaintiff’s favor, it may be reasonably inferred
that Plaintiff’s lost wages claim stems from destruction of property rather
than personal injury and is therefore not time-barred.    
In conclusion, Defendants have no
authority suggesting that lost wages constitute personal injury in all cases. The
FAC also does not reveal on its face that Plaintiff’s lost wages in this
particular case necessarily stem from personal injury. Because the allegations
in the FAC support a reasonable inference that the claim stems from property
damage, the claim is not time-barred. The demurrer is OVERRULED as to Plaintiff’s
claim for lost wages.  
b. Intentional Infliction of Emotional
Distress
On the other hand, emotional distress is a
personal injury subject to the two-year statute of limitations. As discussed above,
“[a]n injury is personal when it impairs the well-being or the mental or
physical health of the victim.” (McKinney, supra, 96 Cal.App.4th at p.
1231.) Plaintiff’s IIED claim seeks compensation for impairment to her mental
health and is therefore a personal injury claim. “Causes of action for assault,
battery and intentional infliction of emotional distress are governed by the
two-year statute of limitations set forth in Code of Civil Procedure section
335.1.” (Pugliese v. Superior Court (2007) 146 Cal.App.4th 1444, 1450.) 
Therefore, the demurrer is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend as to the seventh cause of action. 
 
 
II.
Motion to Strike
            a. Loss of Income
            As discussed above, Plaintiff has
properly pled loss of income to the extent that it is based on property damage.
Therefore, the motion to strike is DENIED as to loss of income. 
            b. Emotional and Physical
Distress
            As discussed above, Plaintiff cannot
recover for personal injuries due to the statute of limitations. Therefore, the
motion to strike is GRANTED as to allegations of emotional and physical
distress. 
c. Punitive Damages
            “In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover damages
for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (a).) “‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the
defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is
carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the
rights or safety of others.” (Id., subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means
despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” (Id., subd. (c)(2).) Fraud
is “intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact
known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of
thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing
injury.” (Id., subd. (c)(3).)
            Here, Plaintiff has adequately pled malicious
conduct by alleging that Defendants knew about the dangerous conditions but refused
to address them. Defendants’ alleged failures ultimately led to a fire that
destroyed Plaintiff’s home and personal possessions. For pleading purposes,
this supports a reasonable inference that Defendants acted in conscious
disregard for Plaintiff’s rights and safety. Therefore, the motion to strike is
DENIED as to punitive damages.
CONCLUSION
            Defendants’ demurrers are SUSTAINED
in part as set forth above without leave to amend. The motions to strike are GRANTED
in part as set forth above without leave to amend.  
 