  Case Number:  23TRCV01206    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  8   Tentative Ruling¿¿HEARING DATE: January 9, 2025CASE NUMBER: 23TRCV01206CASE NAME: Stacy Collins, et al. v. Marriott International, Inc., et al.MOVING PARTY: Defendants, Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC [erroneously sued as Marriott International, Inc.]; and Torrance Inn JV, LLC [erroneously sued as Residence Inn by Marriott Los Angeles Torrance/Redondo Beach]RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiffs, Stacy Collins, et al.TRIAL DATE: Not Set.MOTION: (1) Demurrer(2) Motion to StrikeTentative Rulings: (1) Demurrer is SUSTAINED, with further leave to amend being the subject or oral argument by Plaintiff’s counsel(2) Motion to Strike is MOOTED.I. BACKGROUNDA. FactualOn April 18, 2023, Plaintiffs, Stacy Collins, La Tonia Jackson, La Kita Elliot, Dominique Green, a minor, by La Kita Elliot, as his guardian ad litem; Keenan Louis Jr., a minor, by Stacy Collins, as his guardian ad litem; Kasen Louis, a minor, by Stacy Collins, as his guardian ad litem, Lilly Collins, a minor, by Stacy Collins, as her guardian ad litem; Tariq Baeley, a minor, by Stacy Collins, as his guardian ad litem (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint against Defendants, Marriott International, Inc., Residence Inn by Marriott Los Angeles Torrance/Redondo Beach, Brett Morales, and DOES 1 through 20. The complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Assault and Battery; (2) Violation of Civil Code section 52.1, The Tom Bane Civil Rights Act; (3) Negligence; (4) Negligent Hiring, Training, Supervision and/or Retention of Employees; and (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress.On September 3, 2024, this Court sustained Demurring Defendants’ demurrer with leave to amend and found that this mooted the motion to strike.On October 8, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) alleging causes of action for: (1) Assault and Battery; (2) Violation of Civil Code section 52.1, The Tom Bane Civil Rights Act; (3) Negligence; (4) Negligent Hiring, Training, Supervision and/or Retention of Employees; and (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress. The FAC is based on the allegations this Court previously summarized in the previous tentative ruling to DemurringDefendants’ demurrer to the original complaint. In the interest of brevity, the Court does not restate the facts.Now, Defendants, Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC [erroneously sued as Marriott International, Inc.], and Torrance Inn JV, LLC [erroneously sued as Residence Inn by Marriott Los Angeles Torrance/Redondo Beach] (“Demurring Defendants”) have filed a demurrer and motion to strike portions of the FAC.B. ProceduralOn November 7, 2024, Demurring Defendants filed a demurrer and motion to strike. On December 26, 2024, Plaintiffs filed opposition briefs to both motions. On January 3, 2025, Demurring Defendants filed reply briefs to both oppositions.II. ANALYSISA. Demurreri. Legal StandardA demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) “To survive a demurrer, the complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need not be alleged.” (C.A. v. William S. Hart Union High School Dist. (2012) 53 Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. (Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.” (Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.)A pleading is uncertain if it is ambiguous or unintelligible. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).) A demurrer for uncertainty may lie if the failure to label the parties and claims renders the complaint so confusing defendant cannot tell what he or she is supposed to respond to.¿ (Williams v. Beechnut Nutrition Corp. (1986) 185 Cal.App.3d 135, 139, fn. 2.) However, “[a] demurrer for uncertainty is strictly construed, even where a complaint is in some respects uncertain, because ambiguities can be clarified under modern discovery procedures.” (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)ii. DiscussionDemurring Defendants demur to Plaintiffs’ complaint on the grounds that they argue Plaintiffs first, second, third, fourth, and fifth causes of action fail to state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against Demurring Defendants.1. Assault and BatteryDemurring Defendants again argue that Plaintiffs do not allege facts supporting their assault and battery causes of action. Previously, this Court noted that Plaintiffs’ original complaint did not contain facts that the Demurring Defendants gave substantial assistance or encouragement to Brett Morales to engage in his allegedly tortious conduct nor did it contain facts that the Demurring Defendants’ own conduct, separately considered, constituted a breach of duty to Plaintiffs. Instead, the original complaint focused on authorization or ratification, which do not constitute elements of aiding and abetting in the alleged assault and battery done by Brett Morales. This Court emphasized that, “[m]ere knowledge that a tort is being committed and the failure to prevent it does not constitute aiding and abetting.” (Fiol v. Doellstedt (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1318, 1326.)The Court finds that Plaintiff has added no allegations to support that Demurring Defendants aided and abetted in the alleged assault and battery. Plaintiffs instead, rely solely on cases where the plaintiffs sued for a landowner for premises liability or causes of action based in negligence. Assault and battery are intentional torts; non-participants in the alleged intentional act can be held liable if the person (a) knew the other’s conduct constitutes a breach of duty and gives substantial assistance or encouragement to the other to so act or (b) gave substantial assistance to the other in accomplishing a tortious result and the person’s own conduct, separately considered, constitutes a breach of duty to the third person.” [Citation.]’ [Citation.]” (Austin B. v. Escondido Union School District (2007) 149 Cal.App.4th 860, 879.) However, “[m]ere knowledge that a tort is being committed and the failure to prevent it does not constitute aiding and abetting. [Citation.] ‘As a general rule, one owes no duty to control the conduct of another . . .’ [Citation.]” (Fiol v. Doellstedt (1996) 50 Cal.App.4th 1318, 1326.)Plaintiffs’ reliance on the “special relationship” under Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224, 245 (“Delgado”), does not assist them in their allegations for an intentional tort. Thus, the Court’s tentative ruling is to sustain the demurrer without leave to amend as to the first cause of action.2. Violation of the Tom Bane Civil Rights ActPreviously, this Court noted that the complaint is uncertain as to the actions or inactions of Demurring Defendants, and who Brett Morales is to the Demurring Defendants. The Court wondered whether the original complaint alleged that the Subject Hotel owner and manager were engaging in their own tortious assault and battery, or whether Plaintiff has included this allegation believing that their first cause of action established that Demurring Defendants were liable for tortious activity through aiding and abetting.The Court is still confused. A violation of the Tom Bane Civil Rights Act is also one of an intentional act. Plaintiffs continue to base this allegation, as it pertains to Demurring Defendants, on the alleged ratification of Brett Morales’ actions. This again fails to meet the requirements of the second cause of action. As Plaintiffs’ FAC makes the same mistake here as they did in the original complaint, and also fails to address this issue specifically in their opposition, the Court’s tentative decision is to sustain the demurrer. The Court invited oral argument as to what additional facts Plaintiff can plead to overcome the shortcomings identified in this tentative ruling.3. NegligencePreviously, this Court sustained a demurrer to this cause of action on the grounds that the original complaint was uncertain and was not specific as to the causes of action of Demurring Defendants. For example, Plaintiff alleged that Defendants breached their duties when they intentionally and recklessly did acts that were uncontested to by Plaintiffs and therefore resulted in offensive contact with their person, including: The decision of the Subject Hotel owner and manager to allow Brett Morales to engage in negligent acts such as forcefully pushing Plaintiffs, grabbing Plaintiffs by their person, and injuring plaintiffs. (Complaint, ¶ 41.) The original complaint was devoid of any specific allegations of that illustrate exactly what Demurring Defendants did to “allow” such conduct by Brett Morales.Like with their prior demurrer, Demurring Defendants argue that they are not liable for third parties’ unforeseeable criminal conduct. “[A] high degree of foreseeability is required in order to find that the scope of a landlord’s duty of care includes the hiring of security guards. . . . [T]he requisite degree of foreseeability rarely, if ever, can be proven in the absence of prior similar incidents of violent crime on the landowner’s premises. To hold otherwise would be to impose an unfair burden upon landlords and, in effect, would force landlords to become the insurers of public safety, contrary to well established policy in this state.” (Ann M., supra, 6 Cal.4th at p. 679, footnote omitted.) “Heightened foreseeability is satisfied by a showing of prior similar criminal incidents (or other indications of a reasonably foreseeable risk of violent criminal assaults in that location) and does not require a showing of prior nearly identical criminal incidents. (Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224, 245 (“Delgado”).)Plaintiffs’ FAC focuses on the alleged “special relationship” Demurring Defendants had with them, and relies on Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill (2005) 36 Cal.4th 224. In Delgado, a plaintiff asserted a claim of premises liability against a landowner bar after he was assaulted in the parking lot, which was part of the premises at issue. (Delgado, 36 Cal.4th at pp. 230-233.) The California Supreme Court held that the defendant landowner owed a duty to a patron or invitee by virtue of the special relationship to warn patrons of known dangers and to take other reasonable and appropriate measures to protect the patrons or invitees from imminent or “ongoing” criminal conduct while they are on the premises. (Id. at pp. 240-242.)Here, the FAC includes conclusory allegations that Demurring Defendants had knowledge of: (1) numerous incidences of loud unruly parties, disruptive pool parties, drunk and disorderly guests, violent guests, fights leading to police intervention, and even an instance where gunshots were fired at the Subject Hotel (FAC, ¶ 30); (2) of numerous incidences where the pool at the Subject Hotel had reached maximum capacity of guests yet continued to permit guests to enter, resulting in lack of oversight and conflicts between guests and other guests/staff of the Subject Hotel (FAC, ¶ 31); (3) of numerous incidences where the pool at the Subject Hotel lacked security oversight. Plaintiff also alleges that despite having knowledge of a history and pattern of violence, fights, and frequent disturbances apparently committed by other persons, and of disorderly conduct occurring at the Subject Hotel (FAC, ¶ 32); (4) knew that Defendant, BRETT MORALES consumed liquor to the extent that his disorderly and violent conduct caused altercations with families and children at the pool at the Subject Hotel for an extended period of time lasting at minimum of 20 to 30 minutes in duration on the day of the subject incident (FAC, ¶ 35). Missing are any allegations that Demurring Defendants were aware of prior disorderly or unlawful conduct by Brett Morales, or that Demurring Defendants employed Brett Morales withknowledge of his dangerous propensity, or other allegations that would tend in reason to show that any of Demurring Defendants aided, abetted, encouraged, fostered, or in some way gave affirmative substantial assistance or encouragement to Brett Morales as distinct from failing to act or failing to prevent his alleged misconduct.Regarding these vague allegations of prior incidents of violence, Plaintiffs plead no further facts regarding these prior acts of violence, gunshots, fights, etc. at the Subject Hotel to sufficiently allege “prior similar incidents of violent crime on the landowner’s premises. (Ann M. v. Pacific Plaza Shopping Center (1993) 6 Cal.4th 666, 674 (Ann M.).) These conclusory allegations do not satisfy the requirements for alleging heightened foreseeability, which – as mentioned above – “is satisfied by a showing of prior similar criminal incidents (or other indications of a reasonably foreseeable risk of violent criminal assaults in that location) and does not require a showing of prior nearly identical criminal incidents. (Delgado, supra, 36 Cal.4th at 245.) Instead of pleading more specific prior violent acts in the FAC, Plaintiff attaches Exhibit A to the opposition brief (filed without Request for Judicial Notice). Exhibit A contains record lists with various codes and abbreviations supposedly taking place at the Subject Hotel. However, the attachment include a guide that requires the Court to decipher what incidents took place on each of the days, but these alleged prior incidents are not specific as to location, and not included or pleaded in the FAC. A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a pleading on its face. Here, the face of the FAC fails to sufficiently plead similar criminal incidents or indications of reasonably foreseeable risks of violent criminal assaults in that location.Thus, the demurrer is SUSTAINED. The Court invites argument from Plaintiff as to what additional facts can be alleged to overcome the Court’s concerns as expressed in now two detailed tentative rulings.4. Negligent Hiring, Training, Supervision, and Retention of EmployeesIn this Court’s previous ruling, it found that Plaintiffs’ allegations in the FAC were far too uncertain to maintain a cause of action for negligent hiring, training, supervision, and retention. The Court questioned which security guard, manager, owner, or employee was supposed to act? Did they witness the alleged tortious conduct of Brett Morales? How were said individuals supposed to act? Did anything make these individuals unable to act? Were the individuals alerted of the incident and failed to do anything? The complaint leaves the Court with many questions.The only additional facts Plaintiffs rely on present the same issues identified above as to the FAC on its face. The additional facts must be sufficiently pleaded in the amended complaint, not in an exhibit to an opposition brief, to withstand demurrer.5. Intentional Infliction of Emotional DistressThis cause of action suffers from the same deficiencies as the first and second causes of action. The FAC fails to show how the Demurring Defendants aided and abetted Brett Morales. Thus, the Court’s tentative ruling is to sustain without leave to amend with respect to the intentional causes of action.B. Motion to StrikeLegal StandardThe court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 436(a).)¿ The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.¿ (Id., § 436(b).)¿ The grounds for a motion to strike are that the pleading has irrelevant, false improper matter, or has not been drawn or filed in conformity with laws.¿ (Id., § 436.)¿ The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.¿ (Id., § 437.)¿ “When the defect which justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave to amend.”¿ (Vaccaro v. Kaiman (1998) 63 Cal.App.4th 761, 768.)Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (a) authorizes punitive damages in non-contract cases “where the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.”“Malice [is defined as] conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard for the rights and safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “Oppression” means “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person's rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) “Fraud” is “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(3).)“In order to survive a motion to strike an allegation of punitive damages, the ultimate facts showing an entitlement to such relief must be pled by a plaintiff. In passing on the correctness of a ruling on a motion to strike, judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth. In ruling on a motion to strike, courts do not read allegations in isolation.” (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.) “The mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an award of punitive damages. Not only must there be circumstances of oppression, fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.” (Grieves v. Superior Court (1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166.) Something more than the mere commission of a tort is always required for punitive damages. There must be circumstances of aggravation or outrage, such as spite or ‘malice,’ or a fraudulent or evil motive on the part of the defendant, or such a conscious and deliberate disregard of the interests of others that his conduct may be called willful or wanton.” (Taylor v. Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 894.)To plead a “willful and conscious disregard of the rights of others,” a plaintiff need only allege, “that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his conduct, and that he willfully and deliberately failed to avoid those consequences.” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1211.) However, the definition of malice also requires that the conduct be despicable. “'Despicable conduct' has been described as conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people. Such conduct has been described as '[having] the character of outragefrequently associated with crime.”' (American Airlines, Inc. v. Sheppard, Mullin, Richter & Hampton (2002) 96 Cal.App.4th 1017, 1050.) In cases involving conduct performed without intent to harm, a finding of malice requires proof by clear and convincing evidence that defendant's tortious wrong amounted to despicable conduct and that such despicable conduct was carried on with a ‘willful and conscious disregard’ of the rights or safety of others.” (See College Hospital, Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.)“A breach of a fiduciary duty alone without malice, fraud or oppression does not permit an award of punitive damages. The wrongdoer must act with the intent to vex, injure, or annoy, or with a conscious disregard of the plaintiff's rights. Punitive damages are appropriate if the defendant's acts are reprehensible, fraudulent or in blatant violation of law or policy. The mere carelessness or ignorance of the defendant does not justify the imposition of punitive damages. Punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff's rights, a level which decent citizens should not have to tolerate.” (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.)DiscussionHere, because the Court has SUSTAINED Demurring Defendants’ demurrer as to each cause of action, that ruling effectively MOOTS the motion to strike.IV. CONCLUSIONFor the foregoing reasons, Demurring Defendants’ Demurrer is SUSTAINED with thirty (30) days leave to amend as to the negligence-based causes of action. The demurrer is SUSTAINED without leave to amend as to the intentional causes of action. The Motion to Strike is MOOTED.Demurring Defendants are ordered to provide notice.