 Case Number:  24TRCV02080    Hearing Date:   January 9, 2025    Dept:  8   Tentative RulingHEARING DATE: January 9, 2025CASE NUMBER: 24TRCV02080CASE NAME: Christian Jesus Alegria; Paola Jannette Chaname v. Hui Q. Wong, et al.MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff, Christian Jesus Alegra; Paola Jannette ChanameRESPONDING PARTY: Defendant, Hui Q. Wong, trustee of the Wong Living Trust, sued erroneously as Hui Q. Wong., an individual; Wong Family Trust, a living Trust.TRIAL DATE: Not Set.MOTION: (1) Plaintiffs’ Motion to Deem Requests for Admission Admitted(2) Request for Monetary Sanctions.Tentative Rulings: (1) Plaintiffs’ Motion to Deem Requests for Admission Admitted is DENIED, without prejudice to a motion to compel FURTHER responses and without prejudice to Defendants serving verified admissions or denials (or truthful statements of inability to admit or deny) without objections within 20 days to the first 35 RFAs.(2) Plaintiffs’ request for reasonable expenses incurred is DENIEDI. BACKGROUNDA. FactualOn June 24, 2024, Plaintiffs, Christin Jesus Alegria and Paola Jannette Chaname (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) filed a complaint, in pro per, against Defendants, Hui Q. Wong, an individual, Wong Family Trust, a Living Trust, and DOES 1 through 10. The complaint alleges causes of action for: (1) Constructive Eviction; (2) Breach of Habitability; (3) Negligence; (4) Breach of Quiet Enjoyment; (5) Intentional Infliction of Emotional Distress; (6) Violation of State and Local Health and Safety Codes; and (7) Loss of Use.On July 30, 2024, Plaintiffs propounded Request for Admission, Set One on Defendant, Hui Q. Wong, Trustee of the Wong Living Trust (erroneously sued as Hui Q. Wong, an individual, Wong Family Trust, a Living Trust) (hereinafter “Defendant”). Defendant’s responses were due on or before August 29, 2024. However, as of the date Plaintiffs filed their motion, December 9, 2024, Plaintiffs contend that Defendants did not serve any response to the Requests for Admission.Previously, on December 3, 2024, this Court DENIED Defendant’s Motion for an Extension to Respond to Discovery and for a Protective Order.As such, Plaintiffs move for an order Deeming the Requests for Admission as Admitted.B. ProceduralOn December 9, 2024, Plaintiffs filed this Motion to Deem the Truth of the Matters Specified in that Requests for Admission Admitted. On December 26, 2024, Defendant filed an opposition brief. On January 7, Plaintiffs filed untimely reply papers.II. ANALYSISA. Legal StandardPursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.280, “[i]f a party to whom requests for admission are directed fails to serve a timely response,” the court shall make the order deeming the truth of the matters admitted unless the responding party serves before the hearing a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with Code Civil Procedure § 2033.220. Code of Civil Procedure § 2033.220 requires that each answer either admits, denies or specifies that the responding party lacks sufficient information or knowledge. As stated in Demyer v. Costa Mesa Mobile Home Estates, the moving party is not required to meet and confer before bringing this action. (Demyer v. Costa Mesa Mobile Home Estates, 36 Cal.App.4th 393, 395.)Code of Civil Procedure section 2023.030, subdivision (a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction on a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone as a result of that conduct. A misuse of the discovery process includes failing to respond or submit to an authorized method of discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.010, subd. (d).)B. DiscussionPreliminarily, the Court requires the Parties to clear up a major discrepancy in the issues involving not only this motion, but also Defendant’s December 3, 2024 motion. When deciding the December 3, 2024 motion for a protective order, this Court was under the impression that Plaintiffs served their discovery on July 29, 2024 because this Court only had access to the discovery requests included in Defense Counsel’s exhibits. Now, Plaintiffs state that they served discovery on Defendant on July 30, 2024. Even in the moving papers, Plaintiffs only include a copy of the Requests for Admission themselves, indicating that they were signed on July 29, 2024. However, Plaintiffs filed a proof of service for the Requests for Admission indicating that Art Cervera personally served the Requests for Admission on Defense Counsel on August 26, 2024. (Proof of Service filed December 9, 2024.) If that proof of service is accurate, then the due date for Defendant’s responses to Requests for Admission, Set One would have been September 25, 2024, thirty (30) days after service – NOT August 29, 2024 is indicated in Plaintiff’s moving papers.With that being said, Defense Counsel still did not serve responses on or before September 25, 2024. Instead, Defense counsel served a general response to all Requests for Admission, Set One with an overarching objection on December 4, 2024. The objection reads:“This Defendant objects to each and every Request for Admission and the entire Requests for Admission. In California, a party may propound up to 35 requests for admission as a matter of right. You have propounded more than 35. Please choose which 35 requests that you want responded to. See C.C.P. § 2033.030.”Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.030, subdivision (a) states: “No party shall request, as a matter of right, that any other party admit more than 35 matters that do not relate to the genuineness of documents. If the initial set of admission requests does not exhaust this limit, the balance may be requested in subsequent sets.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.030, subd. (a).) However, the subdivision (b) of section 2033.030 states: “Unless a declaration as described in Section 2033.050 has been made, a party need only respond to the first 35 admission requests served that do not relate to the genuineness of documents, if that party states an objection to the balance under Section 2033.230 on the ground that the limit has been exceeded.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.030, subd. (b).)Attached to the Plaintiffs’ Request for Admission, Set One, is a declaration filed by Christian Jesus Alegria (“Alegria Decl.”). Alegria states that “[t]he additional Requests for Admission are necessary to fully understand the extent and nature of Defendant’s involvement and responsibilities regarding the conditions at the property located at 14921 Firmona Ave., Lawndale, CA 90260.” (Alegria Decl., ¶ 3.) Alegria continues that, “[t]he[] Requests for Admission aim to clarify the roles and actions taken by the Defendant and the Hui Q. Wong Family Trust in relation to the maintenance, repairs, and habitability issues reported by the Plaintiffs.” (Alegria Decl., ¶ 4.) Alegria stated that “[t]his information is critical to establish the Defendant’s liability and to ensure that the Plaintiffs receive a fair and comprehensive resolution to their claims. (Alegria Decl., ¶ 5.) In his declaration, Alegria declares that “[w]ithout this additional information, it would be difficult to ascertain the full scope of the Defendant’s negligence and the impact it has had on the Plaintiffs’ health, safety, and well-being.” (Alegria Decl., ¶ 6.) Lastly, Alegria’s declaration states, “[t]he complexity and seriousness of the issues involved in this case, including persistent health and safety hazards, the fire incident, and the uninhabitable conditions, necessitate a thorough and detailed discovery process.” (Alegria Decl., ¶ 7.)Based on the above, Plaintiff Alegria’s declaration does not strictly comply with the declaration requirements of Code of Civil Procedure section 2033.050. However, Defense Counsel fails recognize in the opposition to this motion that a a non-compliant declaration for additional discovery has a statutory remedy: the responding “party need only respond to the first 35 admission requests served that do not relate to the genuineness of documents, if that party states an objection to the balance under Section 2033.230 on the ground that the limit has been exceeded.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.030, subd. (b).) Defendant did not admit or deny the first 35 admission requests. Instead, Defendant merely lodged a general global objection to all 50 RFAs.Despite defendants’ non-code-compliant objection, the December 4, 2024 service of even the improper response prohibits the Court from deeming the RFAs admitted. Instead, Plaintiffs may move on a Motion to Compel Further Responses from Defendant to their Requests forAdmission, Set One. Thus, the Motion to Deem Requests for Admission is DENIED, without prejudice to a proper motion. But before the parties continue to file motions and oppositions, cooler heads need to prevail. The Court will entertain or argument as to whether Defendants will serve admission or denials of the first 35 RFAs of this first set with the next 20 days, or whether Plaintiffs will withdraw the first set and serve a new set with a full-compliant declaration that might allow more than 35 RFAs.C. SanctionsCode of Civil Procedure § 2023.030(a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose a monetary sanction on a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone because of that conduct. Misuse of discovery includes “failing to respond or submit to an authorized method of discovery.” (Code Civ. Proc. §¿2023.010(d)).Plaintiffs state that they have incurred attorneys fees and costs in the amount of $4,400 in preparing and filing this motion. However, the Court notes that Plaintiffs are representing themselves in pro per. Pursuant to Kravitz v. Superior Court (2001) 91 Cal.App.4th 1015, 1017 “[a] pro se litigant cannot recover attorney’s fees as a discovery sanction, but he can recover the ‘reasonable expenses’ he has ‘incurred,’ including photocopying, computer-assistant legal research, and other identifiable and allocable costs.” Thus, if this Court were to impose monetary sanctions as against Defendant, Plaintiffs would be required to show the reasonable expenses he has incurred in filing this motion. Having not done so, the Court’s tentative is to deny all sanctions requests at this time.III. CONCLUSIONFor the foregoing reasons, Plaintiffs’ Motions to Deem Requests for Admission as Admitted are DENIED because Defendants’ service of a response, even though an objection-only response, prevents the Court from ordering the RFAs deemed to be admitted. Plaintiffs’ request for reasonable expenses incurred is also DENIED.