 Case Number:  23STCV10421    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.  68 Date:  10-24-24 c/f 7-24-24 Case:  23STCV10421 Trial  Date: Trial Date: First Trial, 11-18-24 c/f 10-7-24 c/f 9-9-24 c/f 6-3-24;  Second Trial, 1-6-25 c/f 12-2-24 c/f 9-23-24   FURTHER DOCUMENTS   MOVING  PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant, Jason Lee RESPONDING  PARTY: Cross-Defendant, B&K Enterprise, Inc.   RELIEF  REQUESTED Motion  to Compel Further Responses to Request for Production of Documents (set one)    SUMMARY  OF ACTION Plaintiff  Kelly Soojin Kim alleges Defendant Jason Lee approached her in “early 2021” to  establish a business relationship, whereby Lee would work with Kim at an  existing establishment owned and operated by Kim, and identified as Star Night.  Kim alleges Defendant proposed the joint venture in order to improve revenue at  Star Night given Lee’s prior operation of a similar restaurant business lost to  a fire. Lee purportedly represented to offer certain proprietary “secret”  recipes and “restaurant management know how” as part of said incentive.    In  March 2021, the parties entered into a shareholder agreement, identified as the  B&K Enterprise, Inc., Agreement between Shareholders. The agreement  provides Kim with a 51% ownership share of the of the B&K Enterprise, Inc.  business entity, and Lee with the remaining 49%. The agreement articulates  certain responsibilities between the owners based on either the first or second  floor location within the premises, and also provided Lee with the right to  open additional OB Bear Restaurant locations outside the state of California  without the consent of majority shareholder Kim.    The  parties’ working relationship was unsuccessful, with multiple accusations of  embezzlement and improper operational management practices. Lee subsequently  requested cessation from the partnership. Kim alleges Lee solicited the  purported business with the intention of either acquiring Star Night for  himself, or to destroy the business and open a new competing business upon  payment on the insurance casualty claim following the business premises fire.  Kim also contends that the failure to ever turn over the alleged secret recipes  constituted a violation of the partnership agreement, and therefore a lack of  consideration. Kim therefore denies any enforceable shareholder agreement,  thereby entitling Lee to any rights as a shareholder.   On  May 9, 2023, Kim filed a verified complaint for Breach of Contract; Breach of  Fiduciary Duty; Fraud [Cal. Civ. Code § 1710(1)]; Unfair Competition [Cal.  B&P Code §§ 17200 Et Seq.]; Rescission of Written Instrument Based Upon  Fraud [Cal. Civ. Code §§ 3399, 1571.73 and 1689(1)]; Declaratory Relief [C.C.P.  § 1060]; and, Injunctive Relief. On June 26, 2023, Lee answered the complaint  and filed a cross-complaint for Involuntary dissolution of Corporation;  Accounting; Breach of Fiduciary Duty; Breach of Contract; Breach of Implied Covenant  of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; and Constructive Wrongful Discharge. On October  13, 2023, Lee filed a first amended cross-complaint for Involuntary dissolution  of Corporation; Accounting; Breach of Fiduciary Duty; Breach of Contract;  Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; Constructive Wrongful  Discharge; Unjust Enrichment; and Theft by False Pretense.   Lee  confirms the represented terms of the deal, but also adds in an agreement for a  50-50 split of profits, with Lee receiving a $4,000/month salary as well. If  operations were successful, Lee would be entitled to a 1% share, thereby  rendering the parties equal shareholders. Lee also concedes to the agreement to  provide certain recipes, which apparently included a popular Korean fried  chicken recipe popular with customers. Lee also maintains tendering a $150,000  check to Kim towards the agreement.    Contrary  to Kim, Lee maintains the recipes were provided. Kim, however, began  interfering with operations. After “two or three months,” Lee sought to  negotiate the termination of the business relationship.    On  October 23, 2023, the court granted Plaintiff’s motion to bifurcate the trial  on the issue of shareholder status of defendant Lee.   On  April 17, 2024, the court sustained the demurrer in part and overruled the  demurrer in part to the first amended cross-complaint. On May 21, 2024, the  court granted leave to file an amended cross-complaint. On May 28, 2024, Lee  filed an 18 cause of action second amended verified cross-complaint Involuntary  dissolution of Corporation; Accounting; Breach of Fiduciary Duty; Breach of Contract;  Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; Constructive Wrongful  Discharge;  Restitution; Theft By False  Pretense; Breach Of Implied-In-Fact Contract (Joint Venture/ Partnership);  Breach Of Implied Covenant Of Good Faith And Fair Dealing (Joint Venture/  Partnership); Breach Of Implied-In-Fact Contract (Loan); Breach Of Implied  Covenant Of Good Faith And Fair Dealing (Loan); Quantum  Meruit/Quantum Valebant/Quasi-Contract; Promissory Estoppel; Promissory Fraud;  Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation; Fraudulent Transfer; and Common Law  Fraudulent Transfer.   On  July 24, 2024, the court granted cross-complainants ex parte application for  temporary restraining order enjoining any transfer of, sale, liquidation, or  other disposition of property pending the hearing on the motion for preliminary  injunction.    On  July 25, 2024, the court (Department 85) granted the writ of attachment for  $150,000 in favor of Lee and against B&K Enterprises only.    On  October 7, 2024, the court entered the parties stipulation enjoining the  transfer of, sale, liquidation, or other disposition of B&K Enterprise  property.   RULING: Denied. Evidentiary  Objections: Overruled/Not Relied upon for Purposes of Ruling on the Motion.   Defendant/Cross-Complainant,  Jason Lee moves to compel further responses to Request for Production of  Documents (set one), numbers 5 and 11, from Cross-Defendant B&K Enterprise,  Inc. (B&K). B&K Enterprise, Inc. in opposition challenges the  timeliness of the motion; the filed “notice of motion” and much later filed  “amended motion” providing the actual substantive support to the motion; the  excessive number of pages in the points and authorities; and, the propriety of  the objections. Defendant in reply maintains the motion was timely filed, and  denies any prejudice. Defendant maintains a “contractual right” to examination  of the tax returns.   The  notice of motion was filed on March 21, 2024—48 days from the date of the  supplemental responses electronically served on February 2, 2024. The parties  agreed to a filing deadline of March 20, 2024. Notwithstanding said agreement,  the motion was still filed one day after the March 20, 2024, deadline  extension. The “notice of motion” itself therefore constitutes an untimely  filed motion.    The  notice only identified the parties and hearing without any points and  authorities or declarations. On June 26, 2024, Lee filed an amended notice of motion,  separate statement, and Declaration of Sean Post. The notice of motion was therefore  apparently filed in an attempt to preserve the filing deadline following the agreement  of the parties to extend the motion filing date to March 20, 2024, date. [Declaration  of Sean Post, Ex. K, N; Declaration of Justin Shrenger.]   The  court finds no support for the even further de facto extension of the motion  via the amended motion. Any filed motion for further discovery should include  points and authorities, a separate statement and any and all declaration(s)  filed at the time of the cutoff. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1112, 3.1113,  3.1115, 3.1345.) The argument in reply that the  remainder of the motion being filed before the hearing date cutoffs disregards  the plain language of the superseding statutory guidelines for motions to compel  FURTHER RESPONSES. Lee cannot disregard the plain statutory language and  completely disregard the plain unchallenged language of statutory motions to  compel further responses. (See Robinson v. Woods (2008) 168  Cal.App.4th 1258, 1267.) The court finds NO basis of waiver by submitting an  opposition. The issue is not a matter of defective notice, but statutory  violation precluding consideration which was specifically raised in the  opposition. (Ibid.; Carlton v. Quint (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th  690, 697; Weinstein v. Blumberg, supra, 25 Cal.App.5th at pp. 320-322.) The court therefore finds the motion untimely. The motion  is DENIED on this basis.   Even  if the court considered the motion on the merits, the court finds a lack of  support. Lee seeks further responses on two items: “Number 5: Tax Returns for  B&K ENTERPRISE from January 1, 2018; Number 11: All Schedule K-1 tax forms  issued to YOU by B&K ENTERPRISE from January 1, 2021 through the present.”    B&K  Enterprise objected on grounds of “taxpayers privilege” to both items.   Lee seeks the documents as a shareholder of B & K, and  maintains no taxpayer privilege therefore applies. Lee also contends B & K  “waived” any privilege due to placing the sale terms at issue, which  incorporated said documents. Court authority allows  for discovery reasonably related to conducting discovery into underlying  claims. (Schnabel v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 717.)    While tax returns are privileged, the privilege is not  absolute. (Schnabel v. Superior Court,  supra, 5 Cal.4th at p. 720; Deary  v. Superior Court (2001) 87 Cal.App.4th 1072, 1080.) The privilege protects  all entries made on tax returns such as amounts of income reported, deductions  claimed, etc. In other words, the content of the return, as well as production  of the returns themselves, is privileged.   (Sav-On Drugs, Inc. v. Superior  Court (1975) 15 Cal.3d 1, 7 [“Assuming  Revenue and Taxation Code section 7056 protects the returns themselves, it is  reasonable to conclude that it must also protect the information contained in  the returns”].) A compelling reason for discovery must be presented. (Fortunato v. Superior Court (2003) 114  Cal.App.4th 475, 483.)   A shareholder remains entitled to inspect corporate records.  (Corp. Code, § 1601.) The statute itself lacks  specific address of tax records. B & K categorically challenges tax returns  as an included item. A “shareholder's right to inspect corporate records to  three categories of documents: (1) the share register or duplicate share  register; (2) the books of account; and (3) the minutes of proceedings of the  shareholders and the board of directors, and of executive committees of the  directors.” (Goldstein v. Lees (1975) 46 Cal.App.3d 614, 621.)    The court finds a lack of support  for production under the statute or establishment of waiver. The argument in  the “amended” motion regarding transfer of stocks, or indication that a tax  return will somehow establish equal distribution of revenue otherwise lacks a  sufficient compelling basis overcoming the tax return privilege. Nothing in the  motion establishes insufficiency of the necessary information via other forms  of discovery into corporate records, and said tax information constitutes the  sole and exclusive source for the sought after revenue information. The motion  is therefore DENIED in its entirety.   Sanctions in the amount of $1,000 imposed against both Lee  and counsel joint and severally and payable within 30 days. (Code Civ. Proc., §  2031.310, subd. (h).)   Phase one of the bifurcated trial on shareholder status  remains set for November 18, 2024.   Lee to provide notice.Dept.
68Date:
10-24-24Case:
23STCV10421Trial
Date: First Trial, 11-18-24 c/f 10-7-24 c/f 9-9-24 c/f 6-3-24; Second Trial, 1-6-25
c/f 12-2-24 c/f 9-23-24 OSC RE: PRELIMINARY INJUNCTION MOVING
PARTY: Defendant/Cross-Complainant, Jason LeeRESPONDING
PARTY: Cross-Defendant, B&K Enterprise, Inc. RELIEF
REQUESTEDOSC
re: Preliminary Injunction SUMMARY
OF ACTIONPlaintiff
Kelly Soojin Kim alleges Defendant Jason Lee approached her in “early 2021” to
establish a business relationship, whereby Lee would work with Kim at an
existing establishment owned and operated by Kim, and identified as Star Night.
Kim alleges Defendant proposed the joint venture in order to improve revenue at
Star Night given Lee’s prior operation of a similar restaurant business lost to
a fire. Lee purportedly represented to offer certain proprietary “secret”
recipes and “restaurant management know how” as part of said incentive.  In
March 2021, the parties entered into a shareholder agreement, identified as the
B&K Enterprise, Inc., Agreement between Shareholders. The agreement
provides Kim with a 51% ownership share of the of the B&K Enterprise, Inc.
business entity, and Lee with the remaining 49%. The agreement articulates
certain responsibilities between the owners based on either the first or second
floor location within the premises, and also provided Lee with the right to
open additional OB Bear Restaurant locations outside the state of California
without the consent of majority shareholder Kim.  The
parties’ working relationship was unsuccessful, with multiple accusations of
embezzlement and improper operational management practices. Lee subsequently
requested cessation from the partnership. Kim alleges Lee solicited the
purported business with the intention of either acquiring Star Night for
himself, or to destroy the business and open a new competing business upon
payment on the insurance casualty claim following the business premises fire.
Kim also contends that the failure to ever turn over the alleged secret recipes
constituted a violation of the partnership agreement, and therefore a lack of
consideration. Kim therefore denies any enforceable shareholder agreement,
thereby entitling Lee to any rights as a shareholder. On
May 9, 2023, Kim filed a verified complaint for Breach of Contract; Breach of
Fiduciary Duty; Fraud [Cal. Civ. Code § 1710(1)]; Unfair Competition [Cal.
B&P Code §§ 17200 Et Seq.]; Rescission of Written Instrument Based Upon
Fraud [Cal. Civ. Code §§ 3399, 1571.73 and 1689(1)]; Declaratory Relief [C.C.P.
§ 1060]; and, Injunctive Relief. On June 26, 2023, Lee answered the complaint
and filed a cross-complaint for Involuntary dissolution of Corporation;
Accounting; Breach of Fiduciary Duty; Breach of Contract; Breach of Implied Covenant
of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; and Constructive Wrongful Discharge. On October
13, 2023, Lee filed a first amended cross-complaint for Involuntary dissolution
of Corporation; Accounting; Breach of Fiduciary Duty; Breach of Contract;
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; Constructive Wrongful
Discharge; Unjust Enrichment; and Theft by False Pretense. Lee
confirms the represented terms of the deal, but also adds in an agreement for a
50-50 split of profits, with Lee receiving a $4,000/month salary as well. If
operations were successful, Lee would be entitled to a 1% share, thereby
rendering the parties as equal shareholders. Lee also concedes to the agreement
to provide certain recipes, which apparently included a popular Korean fried
chicken recipe popular with customers. Lee also maintains tendering a $150,000
check to Kim towards the agreement.  Contrary
to Kim, Lee maintains the recipes were provided. Kim, however, began
interfering with operations. After “two or three months,” Lee sought to
negotiate the termination of the business relationship.  On
October 26, 2023, the court granted Plaintiff’s motion to bifurcate the trial
on the issue of shareholder status of defendant Lee. On
April 17, 2024, the court sustained the demurrer in part and overruled the
demurrer in part to the first amended cross-complaint. On May 21, 2024, the
court granted leave to file an amended cross-complaint. On May 28, 2024, Lee
filed an 18 cause of action second amended verified cross-complaint Involuntary
dissolution of Corporation; Accounting; Breach of Fiduciary Duty; Breach of Contract;
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; Constructive Wrongful
Discharge;  Restitution; Theft By False
Pretense; Breach Of Implied-In-Fact Contract (Joint Venture/ Partnership);
Breach Of Implied Covenant Of Good Faith And Fair Dealing (Joint Venture/
Partnership); Breach Of Implied-In-Fact Contract (Loan); Breach Of Implied
Covenant Of Good Faith And Fair Dealing (Loan);
Quantum
Meruit/Quantum Valebant/Quasi-Contract; Promissory Estoppel; Promissory Fraud;
Fraud – Intentional Misrepresentation; Fraudulent Transfer; and Common Law
Fraudulent Transfer. On
July 24, 2024, the court granted cross-complainants ex parte application for
temporary restraining order enjoining any transfer of, sale, liquidation, or
other disposition of property pending the hearing on the motion for preliminary
injunction.  On
July 25, 2024, the court (Department 85) granted the writ of attachment for
$150,000 in favor of Lee and against B&K Enterprises only.  On
October 7, 2024, the court entered the parties stipulation enjoining the
transfer of, sale, liquidation, or other disposition of B&K Enterprise
property. RULING: Off-CalendarOn
July 24, 2024, the court granted cross-complainants ex parte application for
temporary restraining order enjoining any transfer of, sale, liquidation, or
other disposition of property pending the hearing on the motion for preliminary
injunction. The court specifically ordered Plaintiff to file a new motion for
preliminary injunction. The court electronic filing system shows no new motion
or opposition papers filed on the matter. On October 7, 2024, the court entered
the parties’ stipulation enjoining the transfer of, sale, liquidation, or other
disposition of B&K Enterprise property. The court assumes the lack of any
new motion and entered stipulation rendered the preliminary injunction
unnecessary. The court therefore takes the OSC re: Preliminary off-calendar.  Phase one of the bifurcated trial on shareholder status
remains set for November 18, 2024. Lee to provide notice.



















































































   