 Case Number:  23STCV11602    Hearing Date:   October 24, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept.
68
Date:
10-24-24
Case
23STCV11602
Trial
Date: 1-21-25
 
DEMURRER TO THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT/MOTION TO
STRIKE THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant, Caesarstone Ltd.
RESPONDING
PARTY: Unopposed/Plaintiff, Wendy Viridinia Solano-Castro 
 
RELIEF
REQUESTED
Demurrer
to the First Amended Complaint
·        
4th
Cause of Action: Fraudulent Concealment
 
Motion
to Strike Allegations in Support of, and Claim for, Punitive Damages
 
SUMMARY
OF ACTION
Wendy
Viridinia Solano-Castro, et al. alleges the wrongful death of Raul Garcia-Leon
caused from as a stone fabricator and installer. Plaintiffs contend working
with “toxic” stone products led to the development of silicosis and death of
Garcia-Leon on February 16, 2023.
 
On
May 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a 582 paragraph complaint for negligence, strict
liability – warning defect, strict liability – design defect, fraudulent
concealment, and breach of implied warranties. On May 31, 2023, Plaintiff a 235
page first amended complaint for negligence, strict liability – warning defect,
strict liability – design defect, fraudulent concealment, and breach of implied
warranties. The action names a multitude of parties comprised of suppliers,
sellers, etc. The case was deemed non-complex on June 5, 2023, and assigned to
Department 68 on June 7, 2023. 
 
On
October 11, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer to the first amended
complaint brought by MS International, Inc. to the fourth cause of action with
20 days leave to amend. On November 2, 2023, Caesarstone USA, Inc. filed a
cross-complaint for indemnity, declaratory relief and apportionment. On
December 29, 2023, Lowes Home Centers, LLC filed a cross-complaint indemnity,
declaratory relief and apportionment.
 
On
September 5, 2024, the court granted the motion for trial preference based on
the age of Rebecca Garcia at the time of the filing of the motion.
 
RULING
Demurrer:
Moot.
Defendant Caesarstone Ltd. presents a notice of demurrer
identifying all causes of action, and a demurrer just to the fourth cause of
action for Fraudulent Concealment. The court electronic filing system shows no
filed opposition. Moving party filed a notice of non-opposition. Consistent
with the demurrer, the points and authorities only address the fourth cause of
action. The court therefore only considers the challenge to the fourth cause of
action notwithstanding the notice of demurrer identifying all causes of action.
 
Defendant was substituted into the action for Doe 5 on
October 23, 2023. It’s not clear when Defendant was served and therefore
whether the demurrer was timely filed on May 2, 2024. 
 
Regardless, prior to the Doe amendment substitution, on
October 11, 2023, the court sustained the demurrer to the fourth cause of
action for fraudulent concealment in the first amended complaint brought by MS
International, Inc. with 20 days leave to amend. The court docket shows no second
amended complaint. The subject demurrer to the same cause of action is
therefore MOOT.
 
Alternatively, if a second amended complaint was in fact
filed, or Caesarstone Ltd. for some reason persists in maintaining the validity
of its demurrer, and in fact establishes said necessity at oral argument, the
court sustains the unopposed demurrer to the fourth cause of action for
fraudulent concealment in the operative complaint with 10 days leave to amend.
 
Motion to Strike: GRANTED.
Defendant Caesarstone Ltd. moves to strike a reference to
potential “other stone products” yet to be identified in discovery, as well as
an allegation in support of (First Amend. Comp., ¶ 564), and claim for punitive
damages (Prayer number 6). The unopposed motion asserts the unidentified stone
products constitutes an impermissibly vague allegation, and the punitive
damages allegations lack support. The court GRANTS the unopposed motion.
 
OSC re: Possible Referral to Complex Court set for November 6,
2024, and OSC re: Possible Long Cause Referral scheduled for December 17, 2024.



Caesarstone Ltd.  to
give notice to all appearing parties. 
 