  Case Number:  22TRCV00563    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 September 4, 2024   CASE NUMBER:                  22TRCV00563   CASE NAME:                        Ocean Recovery, LLC  v. Sullivancutrismonroe, et al.   MOVING PARTY:                Defendants, Scottsdale Insurance Company  and Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company    RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff,  Ocean Recovery, LLC (No Opposition)   TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set.  MOTION:                             Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary  Adjudication                                                   Tentative Rulings:                  GRANTED.    I. BACKGROUND    A.     Factual    On July 8, 2022, Plaintiff,  Ocean Recovery, LLC (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Sullivan Curtis  Monroe Insurance Services, LLC (“SCM”), and Scottsdale Indemnity Company  (collectively “Defendants”). On July 13, 2022, Plaintiff filed an amended  complaint. On February 22, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Second Amended Complaint. On  July 31, 2023, Plaintiff filed a Third Amended Complaint (“TAC”). On February  21, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Fourth Amended Complaint (“4AC”). On April 18,  2024, Plaintiff filed a Fifth Amended Complaint (“5AC”) alleging causes of  action for: (1) Breach of Contract; (2) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good  Faith and Fair Dealing; and (3) Professional Negligence.    On June 13, 2024, Defendants,  Scottsdale Insurance Company (“Scottsdale”) and Nationwide Mutual Insurance  Company (“Nationwide”) filed a Motion to Seal and/or Redact portions of the  Motion for Summary Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication and to  seal Exhibit A in support thereof. On July 12, 2024, this Court granted that  motion.    Now, the Motion for Summary  Judgment, or in the alternative, Summary Adjudication that was the issue of the  above motion now comes for hearing.    B.      Procedural  On June 13, 2024, Moving Defendants Scottsdale and  Nationwide filed a Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the alternative, Summary  Adjudication. To date, no opposition brief has been filed.  II. ANALYSIS¿    A.     Legal  Standard    The function of a motion for summary  judgment or adjudication is to allow a determination as to whether an opposing  party cannot show evidentiary support for a pleading or claim and to enable an  order of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic  Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) CCP Section 437(c) “requires the  trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all  inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other  inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material  fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”¿ (Adler  v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)¿ “The function  of the pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of  the issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose  whether there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the  pleadings.”¿ (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67,  citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal. App. 3d 367,  381-382.)   As to each claim as framed by the  complaint, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the initial  burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element, or to  establish a defense. (CCP § 437c(p)(2); Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005)  128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520. ) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in  support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning  the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006)  39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)¿    Once the defendant has met that burden,  the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of one or more  material facts exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.   To establish a triable issue of material  fact, the party opposing the motion must produce substantial responsive  evidence. (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)    B.      Discussion   Moving Defendants, Scottsdale and  Nationwide, move for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary  adjudication, on the grounds that they claim Plaintiff’s first cause of action  for breach of contract fails because there is no coverage for the underlying  lawsuit under the insurance policy that Scottsdale issued to Plaintiff.  Further, they also move for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary  adjudication, on the grounds that because they argue that there is no coverage  for the underlying lawsuit under the insurance policy, Plaintiff’s second cause  of action for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing and  claim for punitive damages also fail as a matter of law. In addition, the  Moving Defendants argue that Nationwide did not issue the policy to Plaintiff  and never owed any duties, contractual or otherwise, to Plaintiff.        i.                     Breach  of Insurance Contract   First, Moving Defendants argue that they  are entitled to summary judgment because the lawsuit for which Plaintiff is  seeking coverage is excluded from coverage under the insurance policy that  Scottsdale issued to Plaintiff, and because the policy did not contain  Employment Practices Liability (“EPL”) coverage at the time the Underlying  Action was filed.    An insured can pursue a breach of  contract theory against its insurer by alleging the insurance contract, the  insured's performance or excuse for nonperformance, the insurer's breach, and  resulting damages.” (San Diego Housing Commission v. Industrial Indem. Co.  (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 526, 536.) The complaint must  allege the terms of contract that the insurer has breached, either verbatim or  according to legal effect.¿(Twaite v Allstate Ins. Co.¿(1989) 216  Cal.App.3d 239, 252-253.)     “When an issue of coverage  exists, the burden is on the insured to prove facts establishing that the  claimed loss falls within the coverage provided by the policy's insuring  clause. [Citations.] Once the insured has made that showing, the burden is on  the insurer to prove the claim is specifically excluded.” (MRI Healthcare  Center of Glendale, Inc. v. State Farm General Ins. Co. (2010) 187  Cal.App.4th 766, 777.)    Here, Plaintiff alleges that the companies,  including Scottsdale and Nationwide, unequivocally rejected Plaintiff’s demand  to provide a defense in the Underlying Actions, as the insurance contract  provides, therefore materially breaching the terms of the EPLI Policy by  refusing to provide policy benefits and by continuing to withhold privacy  benefits now due and payable under the policies’ term – namely, a defense in  the Underlying Action. (Fifth Amended Complaint (“5AC”), ¶¶ 23-24.)    However, Moving Defendants explain that there is no  coverage for the Underlying Action under the Original Policy, which included  only a D & O Coverage Section, because the Underlying Action alleges, is  based upon, or in any way involves any employment or employment-related matters  brought by or on behalf of or on the right of an employee of Plaintiff and,  therefore, is barred by the EP Exception. (SSUMF Nos. 7, 12.) Moving Defendants  have attached a copy of the Original Policy to the Declaration of Paul Tomasi  (“Tomasi Decl.”) as exhibit D. (Tomasi Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. D.) In the Original  Policy, the D&) Coverage Section contained three insuring clauses stating:    (1)    Scottsdale Insurance shall pay the “Loss” of the  “Directors and Officers” for which the “Director and Officers” are not  indemnified by Ocean Recovery and which the “Directors and Officers” have  become legally obligated to pay by reason of a “Claim” first made against the  “Directors and Officers” during the Original Policy Period or, if elected, the  “Extended Period,” and reported to Scottsdale Insurance pursuant to Section  E(1) for any “Wrongful Act” taking place prior the end of the Original Policy  Period;  (2)    Scottsdale Insurance shall pay the “Loss” of  Ocean Recovery for which Ocean Recovery has indemnified the “Directors and  Officers” and which the “Directors and Officers” have become legally obligated  to pay by reason of a “Claim” first made against the “Directors and Officers”  during the Original Policy Period or, if elected, the “Extended Period,” and  reported to Scottsdale Insurance pursuant to Section E(1) for any “Wrongful  Act” taking place prior to the end of the Original Policy Period; and  (3)    Scottsdale Insurance shall pay the “Loss” of  Ocean Recovery for which Ocean Recovery becomes legally obligated to pay by  reason of a “Claim” first made against Ocean Recovery during the Original  Policy Period or, if applicable, the “Extended Period,” and reported to  Scottsdale Insurance pursuant to Section E(1) for any “Wrongful Act” taking  place prior to the end of the Original Policy Period   (SSUMF No. 8.)  However, the Original Policy also contained the following EP Exclusion:  Scottsdale Insurance shall not be liable for Loss under the D&O Coverage  Section on account of any Claim alleging, based upon, arising out of,  attributable to, directly or indirectly resulting from, in consequence of, or  in any way involving any employment or employment-related matters brought by or  on behalf of or on the right of an applicant for employment with Ocean  Recovery, or any of the “Directors and Officers,” including any voluntary,  seasonal, temporary, leased or independently-contracted employee of Ocean  Recovery. (SSUMF No. 12.) Moreover, the Original Policy states that it shall be  the duty of Scottsdale and not the duty of the “Insureds” to defend any Claim (SSUMF  No. 13), stating:    THE EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES,  DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS AND COMPANY, FIDUCIARY, BUSINESSOWNERS, PRIVACY PLUS,  TECHNOLOGY, MEDIA AND PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AND MISCELLANEOUS PROFESSIONAL  SERVICES COVERAGE SECTIONS OF THIS POLICY, WHICHEVER ARE APPLICABLE, COVER ONLY  CLAIMS FIRST MADE AGAINST THE INSURED DURING THE POLICY PERIOD OR, IF ELECTED,  THE EXTENDED PERIOD AND REPORTED TO THE INSURER PURSUANT TO THE TERMS OF THE  RELEVANT COVERAGE SECTION.   (SSUMF. No. 14.)   When arguing that there is no coverage for the  Underlying Action under the Original Policy, which included only a D&O  Coverage Section, Moving Defendants assert that Courts applying California law  have recognized that the prefatory language to the EP Exclusion – alleging,  based upon, arising out of, attributable to, directly or indirectly resulting  from, in consequence of, or in any way involving – is unambiguous and extremely  broad. More specifically, Moving Defendants rely on Tricor  Am., Inc. v. Ill. Union Ins. Co. (9th Cir. 2009) 351 F. Appx. 225, 227 (“Tricor”).  In Tricor, Moving Defendants argue that the Ninth Circuit interpreted an  identical employment practices exclusion contained in a D&O policy and held  that it was “plainly intended broadly to exclude coverage for any lawsuits  ‘alleging, based upon, arising out of, attributable to, directly or indirectly  resulting from, in consequence of, or in any way involving’ employment-related  matters. (Tricor, supra, 351 F. Appx. at 227.) The Ninth Circuit held  that “the provision’s specific exclusion of suits brought by applicants for  employment, in addition to those brought by Directors and Officers, was  necessary to effectuate the complete exclusion of all employment-related  lawsuits because rejected applicants for Tricor employment do not fall within  the definition of Directors and Officers in subsection B.4.” (Ibid.)   Moving  Defendants argue that in the case at bar, like in Tricor, the Underlying  Action arises out of and, at the very least, in any way involves  employment-related matters as Ms. Wooters alleges numerous causes of action for  discrimination and retaliation resulting from her employment with Plaintiff, as  well as claims for failure to pay her appropriate employment compensation. The  Underlying Action complaint is attached to the Declaration of Emil Soskin  (“Soskin Decl.”) as exhibit B. The Underlying Action was filed on July 15,  2020, and alleges causes of action include: (1) Disability Discrimination; (2)  Failure to Engage in Good Faith Interactive Process; (3) Failure to  Accommodate; (4) Retaliation; (5) Failure to Prevent Discrimination and  Retaliation; (6) Discrimination and Retaliation and Safety Code; (7)  Retaliation; (8) Failure to Pay Overtime; (9) Failure to Pay Wages When Due and  Waiting Time Penalties; (10) Failure to Provide Meal and Rest Periods; (11)  Failure to Reimburse Business Expenses; (12) Failure to Provide Accurate  Itemized Statements; (13) Failure to Permit the Inspection or Cory of Records;  (14) Wrongful Termination in Violation of Public Policy; and (15) Unfair  Competition. (Soskin Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B.) Thus, based on the Original Policy,  this Court finds that the EP Exclusion would exclude Scottsdale from having to  cover the Underlying Action as it arises out of employment-related matters.                  Next, Moving Defendants also argue that  there is no coverage for the Underlying Action under the Modified Policy  because the Underlying Action was filed prior to the effective date of the EP  Endorsements. Moving Defendants note that on August 20, 2020, after the  Underlying Action was filed on July 15, 2020, Plaintiff executed another  Application for Business and Management Indemnity Insurance. (SSUMF No.  22.)  Based on the information contained  in the August 20, 2020 Application, Moving Defendants note that on or about  September 22, 2020, E-Risk issued a revised quote to Plaintiff, to add EPL  coverage to the Original Policy (SSUMF No. 24.) Further, Moving Defendants have  provided that at the request of Plaintiff, on or about October 1, 2020,  Endorsements 24 and 48 (the “EP Endorsements”) were added to the Original  Policy. (SSUMF No. 25.) Moving Defendants confirm that the effective date of  the EP Endorsements is October 1, 2020, 12:01 A.M. Standard Time. (SSUMF No.  26.) This is confirmed in the document attached to Tomasi’s declaration as  Exhibit G. (Tomasi Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. G.)                In  the Modified Policy, Insuring Clause A(a) of the EPL Coverage Section states  that Scottsdale Insurance shall pay the Loss of the “Insureds” which the  “Insureds” have become legally obligated to pay by reason of an “Employment  Practices Claim” first made against the “Insureds” during the Modified Policy  Period or, if elected, the “Extended Period,” and reported to Scottsdale  pursuant to Section E(1) for an “Employment Practices Wrongful Act” taking  place prior to the end of the Modified Policy Period (SSUMF No. 28.) According  to the Modified Policy, “Employment Practices Claim” is defined, in relevant  part, as a civil, judicial, administrative, regulatory or  arbitration proceeding or a formal governmental investigation against an  “Insured” seeking damages or other relief, commenced by the service of a  complaint or similar pleading, including any appeal therefrom brought by or on  behalf of an “Employee” in their capacity as such. (SSUMF No. 29.) However, the  EPL Coverage Section contains an exclusion that states that Scottsdale “shall  not be liable for Loss under [the EPL Coverage Section] on account of any  Claim…alleging, based upon, arising out of, attributable to, directly or  indirectly resulting from, in consequence of, or in any way involving any prior  or pending litigation…filed or pending on or before the ‘Continuity Date’… or  any fact, circumstance, situation, transaction or event underlying or alleged  in such litigation…” (the “Prior and Pending Litigation Exclusion”). (SSUMF No.  30.) As noted in the moving papers, “Continuity Date” is defined as “the  Continuity Date set forth in Item 3. of the Declarations relating this Coverage  Section,” (SSUMF No. 31), and Item 3. of the Declarations of the EPL Coverage  Section states that the Continuity Date is October 1, 2020. (SSUMF No. 32.) The  Modified Policy states that it shall be the duty of Scottsdale Insurance and  not the duty of the “Insureds” to defend any Claim. (SSUMF No. 33.) As is  evidenced by Exhibit G of the Tomasi Declaration, on the very first page of the  Modified Policy, the continuity date is listed as: “10/1/2020”. (Tomasi Decl.,  ¶ 10, Ex. G.)                Thus, this Court notes that because  the continuity date was not until October 1, 2020, and the Underlying Action  was filed on July 15, 2020, pursuant to the Modified Policy, Scottsdale would  not be required to cover Plaintiff for the Underlying Action. Lastly on this  issue, the Moving Defendants also argue that the Underlying Action is excepted  from coverage under the Prior and Pending Litigation Exclusion contained in the  EPL Coverage Section. The Court agrees that because the Modified Policy was not  effective until the continuity date of October 1, 2020, and Ms. Wooters’ action  was filed July 15, 2020, the Underlying Action would be barred from coverage  under the Prior and Pending Litigation Exclusion. (SSUMF No. 30.)  Moving defendants also submitted evidence that  in a letter dated September 21, 2020, Scottsdale specifically declined coverage  for the Wooters action which had been filed before the application for the Modified  Policy had been submitted, further evidencing that the Underlying Action was  subject tot eh Prior and Pending Litigation Exclusions.                 The Court notes that no opposition  has been filed by Plaintiff. Despite this, even where a motion for  summary judgment is unopposed, a Court may not grant summary judgment unless  the moving party meets its initial burden. (Johnson v. Superior Court  (2006) 143 Cal.App.4th 297, 305.) Here, the Court finds that Moving Defendants  have met that burden. As such, this Court notes that as to the  Breach of Contract claim, the Motion is GRANTED as Moving Defendants have  successfully carried their burden in showing that there is no issue of material  fact as to the issue of the Breach of Contract cause of action, based on the  evidence presented. Because Plaintiff has failed to oppose this motion,  Plaintiff has also failed to carry its shifted burden.    ii.                   Breach of the Duty of Good Faith and Fair  Dealing  Moving Defendants also argue that  Plaintiff’s cause of action for Breach of the Duty of Good Faith  and Fair Dealing fails because there is no coverage for the Underlying Action  under the Policy. “A breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair  dealing involves something beyond breach of the contractual duty itself and it  has been held that bad faith implies unfair dealing rather than mistaken  judgment.” (Careau & Co. v. Security  Pacific Business Credit, Inc. (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 1371, 1394.) “If the  allegations do not go beyond the statement of a mere contract breach and,  relying on the same alleged acts, simply seek the same damages or other relief  already claimed in a companion contract cause of action, they may be  disregarded as superfluous as no additional claim is actually stated . . .  [T]he only justification for asserting a separate cause of action for breach of  the implied covenant is to obtain a tort recovery.” (Id. at pp. 1394-1395.) To recover in tort for breach of the implied  covenant, the defendant must “have acted unreasonably or without proper cause.”  (Id. at p. 1395, citations and  italics omitted.)  In the case  at bar, Plaintiff’s second cause of action is based on the allegation that  Moving Defendants breached the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing  when they unreasonably withheld benefits due under the policy – namely, by  providing no defense in the Underlying Action. (5AC, ¶ 27.) However, as noted  above, because this Court found above that Moving Defendants carried their  burden as to the breach of contract cause of action, this Court has found that  the Underlying Claim was not covered under the Original or Modified Policy.  Moving Defendants assert that because they did not breach the policy when  Scottsdale denied coverage for the Underlying Action, Plaintiff’s claim for bad  faith fails as a matter of law and Defendants are entitled to summary judgment  in their favor. The Court agrees. As such, the Motion is GRANTED as to the  second cause of action as well.  iii.                 Punitive Damages Here, this  Court notes that the Plaintiff’s claim for punitive damages arises out of the  allegations of bad faith this Court has already ruled in favor of Moving  Defendants above. Because of the same reasons above regarding the cause of  action for Breach of the Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, the Court GRANTS  the Motion as to this issue as well.  iv.                 Plaintiff’s Claims Against Nationwide Fail as a Matter  of Law  Here,  Moving Defendants lastly focus on the issue of Plaintiff’s causes of action as  against Nationwide. Moving Defendants argue that Nationwide did not issue the  Original Policy or the Modified Policy to Plaintiff and its claims against  Nationwide thus fail as a matter of law. The Court agrees. Moving Defendants  have relied on the declaration of Michael Zartman as to some of the issues but  fails to include Michael Zartman’s declaration with the filing of the moving  papers. Despite this, Moving Defendants argue that the 5AC improperly names  Nationwide as a defendant despite the Original Policy and the Modified Policy  indicating they were issued by Scottsdale Insurance, and not Nationwide (SSUMF  Nos. 6, 25.) However, Moving Defendants note that Nationwide is not  a party to the Original Policy nor the  Modified Policy, which is clear by reviewing them. Instead, Moving Defendants  note that Scottsdale is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Nationwide, but that this  does not change the fact that Nationwide is not a party to these agreements.  (SSUMF Nos. 41-42, 44.) The Court agrees that the evidence provided tends to show  that Nationwide is not a party to the Original or Modified Policy. Because  Plaintiff has failed to oppose this motion and provide this Court with evidence  otherwise, the Court finds that Moving Defendants have carried their initial  burden of proof, and that this Motion can be GRANTED as to this issue.  III.  CONCLUSION                For the foregoing reasons, this  Court tentatively GRANTS Moving Defendants’ Motion for Summary Judgment.                Moving Defendants are ordered to  provide notice. 