 Case Number:  23TRCV02118    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  8 Tentative Ruling   HEARING DATE:                 September 4, 2024  CASE NUMBER:                  23TRCV02118   CASE NAME:                        Barbara Miranda v. City of Santa Monica, et al.    MOVING PARTY:                Defendant, City of Santa Monica     RESPONDING PARTY:       Plaintiff, Barbara Miranda (No Opposition)   TRIAL DATE:                        June 9, 2025             MOTION:                             (1) Motion to Compel Plaintiff’s Responses to Form Interrogatories,  Set One                                                 (2) Motion to Compel  Plaintiff’s Responses to Requests for Production of Documents, Set One                                                  (3) Request for  Sanctions                                                                                                   Tentative Rulings:                  (1) GRANTED; Verified answers ordered by Sept. 25, 2024                                                 (2) GRANTED.   Verified  written response with documents ordered by Sept. 25, 2024                                                 (3) GRANTED in an  amount to be discussed with the Court during oral argument.  The moving papers sought $250 and $500 for the  two motions, which the Court would be inclined to grant upon being provided  additional information bearing on the lodestar factors     I. BACKGROUND  A. Factual         On June 30, 2023, Plaintiff, Barbara  Miranda (“Plaintiff”), filed a complaint against Defendant, City of Santa  Monica, and DOES 1 through 50. The complaint alleges a cause of action for: (1)  Motor Vehicle Negligence. The complaint alleges that Plaintiff boarded  Defendant’s bus at or near the intersection of Lincoln and Manchester  Boulevards in Los Angeles, California. Plaintiff contends that after she  boarded the bus but before she was able to secure herself, Defendant’s bus  driver negligently operated the bus in such a manner as to cause Plaintiff to  fall and suffer injuries and damages.    On  March 26, 2024, City of Santa Monica (“City”) asserts that it served Plaintiff  with Form Interrogatories, Set One and Requests for Production of Documents,  Set One.  The moving papers claim the  responses were due on April 29, 2024. Thereafter, City notes that Plaintiff  requested a two-week extension to provide responses, the last of which making  the operative due date May 27, 2024. However, on May 27, 2024, City contends  that Plaintiff did not provide responses, nor request a further extension.  Counsel for City notes that he emailed Plaintiff’s attorney twice requesting  the responses. Nonetheless, City asserts that as of the drafting of these  motions to compel, no responses have been received. As such, City has brough  these Motions to Compel Plaintiff’s initial responses as well as a request for  monetary sanctions.    B. Procedural                 On July 9, 2024, Defendant City  filed its motions to compel initial responses to Form Interrogatories and  Requests for Production of Documents, Set One. To date, no opposition has been  filed.                On August 5, 2024, this Court  continued the hearing on this motion from August 15, 2024 to September 4, 2024.  There is still no opposition on file nor has Plaintiff’s counsel indicated that  verified responses were belatedly served.      II.  ANALYSIS    A. Legal Standard    A party must respond to interrogatories within 30 days after  service. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260, subd. (a).) If a party to whom  interrogatories are directed does not provide timely responses, the requesting  party may move for an order compelling responses to the discovery. (Code Civ.  Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).) The party also waives the right to make any  objections, including one based on privilege or work-product protection. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) There is no time limit for a motion to  compel responses to interrogatories other than the cut-off on hearing discovery  motions 15 days before trial. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2024.020, subd. (a); Code  Civ. Proc., 2030.290.) No meet and confer efforts are required before filing a  motion to compel responses to the discovery. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290; Sinaiko  Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148  Cal.App.4th 390, 41.)    Further,  where there has been no timely response to a Code  of Civil Procedure § 2031.010 demand, the demanding party must seek an order  compelling a response. (CCP § 2031.300.) Failure to timely respond waives all  objections, including privilege and work product. Thus, unless the party to  whom the demand was directed obtains relief from waiver, he or she cannot raise  objections to the documents demanded. There is no deadline for a motion to  compel responses. Likewise, for failure to respond, the moving party need not  attempt to resolve the matter outside court before filing the motion. Where the  motion seeks only a response to the inspection demand, no showing of "good  cause" is required.                B.  Discussion     Defendant  City notes that on March 26, 2023, it served its Set One of discovery on  Plaintiff. However, despite City granting an extension, making the due date of  responses May 27, 2024, and contacting Plaintiff’s counsel regarding the  responses on two occasions, Plaintiff has failed to serve verified responses,  or any responses at all. Because of this, the Court’s tentative ruling is to  GRANT City’s motion. Plaintiff is ordered to serve verified, code-compliant  responses without objection to City’s propounded discovery on or before  September 25, 2024.                C. Sanctions                Code of Civil  Procedure § 2023.030(a) provides, in pertinent part, that the court may impose  a monetary sanction on a party engaging in the misuse of the discovery process  to pay the reasonable expenses, including attorney’s fees, incurred by anyone  because of that conduct.  Misuse of discovery includes “failing to respond  or submit to an authorized method of discovery.”  (Code Civ. Proc.  §¿2023.010(d)).                Along with City’s Motion to Compel Form Interrogatories,  Set One and Requests for Production of Documents Set One, City also included a  Request for Monetary Sanctions in the amount of $250 for the Motion to Compel  Form Interrogatories, Set One, and $500 for the Motion to Compel Requests for  Production of Documents, Set One. This amount is based on counsel for City, Robert  Baggs’ declaration (“Baggs Decl.”). In his declaration, Baggs notes his hourly  rate is $250, spending an hour to draft and prepare the Motion to Compel Form  Interrogatories, and also anticipates spending another hour on the reply and at  the hearing. (Baggs Decl., ¶ 8.) Nonetheless, Baggs only requests $250 for that  motion. As for the motion to Compel Responses to Requests for Production of  Documents, City has requested $500, based on Baggs spending over an hour to  draft and prepare, anticipates another hour to review any opposition and draft  a reply, and also anticipates another hour at the hearing. (Baggs Decl., ¶ 8.)               Based on the above, the Court notes that the monetary  sanctions requested are reasonable. The Court also notes that no opposition was  filed, nor was there a reply brief filed. As such, since the amounts requested  are not specified by hours spent and hourly rate, the Court requires oral  argument from City’s attorney indicating how much this Court should allot based  on time spent and hours not spent on reviewing the opposition and preparing a  reply brief.    IV. CONCLUSION     For the foregoing reasons, City’s  Motions to Compel Responses from Plaintiff are GRANTED and are order to be  served, verified, code-compliant, and without objection on or before September 25,  2024. Further, City’s Requests for Monetary Sanctions are GRANTED, but in an  amount to be discussed by City’s counsel during oral argument.   Moving party is ordered to  give notice.     