 Case Number:  22STCV23401    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  30 SCOTT A MAILLY vs ALBERSTONS COMPANIES, INC.TENTATIVEThe Motion to Strike filed is DENIED.  Plaintiff is ordered to give notice.Legal StandardAny party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435(b)(1).) The court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion and upon terms it deems proper: (1) strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436; Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782.) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id. § 437.)Meet and ConferThe motion to strike is accompanied by the declaration of Amy W. Lewis, which satisfies the meet and confer requirement. (Code Civ. Proc. § 435.5.)DiscussionDefendant moves to strike allegations relating to punitive damages, arguing that Plaintiff’s FAC contains conclusory language that actions of the unnamed defendants who allegedly attacked plaintiff were "at the direction of a managing agent of Albertsons and Vons" who knew or should have known that their actions would cause harm to plaintiff.To state a claim for punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must allege specific facts showing that the defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.) The basis for punitive damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any factual assertions are insufficient. (Id.) A motion to strike may lie where the facts alleged, if proven, would not support a finding that the defendant acted with malice, fraud or oppression. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central California (2010) 191 Cal. App. 4th 53, 63.)“Malice” is defined in section 3294(c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” “Oppression” is defined in section 3294(c)(2) as “despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” The term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.” (See, e.g., Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th 847, 891.)To prove that a defendant acted with “willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others,” it is not enough to prove negligence, gross negligence or even recklessness. (Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87.) Rather, a plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating that “the defendant acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible manner that the jury could infer that he [or she] knowingly disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to others.” (Id. at 90). Further, the allegations must be sufficient for a reasonable jury to conclude that Defendant’s conduct was “despicable” defined as “base, vile or contemptible.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal. 4th 704, 725.)“An employer shall not be liable for [punitive] damages ..., based upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification, or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.” (Civil Code § 3294.) The California Supreme Court interpreted the “latter statement as requiring the officer, director, or managing agent to be someone who ‘exercise[s] substantial discretionary authority over decisions that ultimately determine corporate policy.’” (White v. Ultramar, Inc. (1999) 21 Cal.4th 563, 577.)Here, the FAC alleges that on July 24, 2020, as Plaintiff was leaving a Pavilions’ store, he was tackled outside the store, punched, kicked and dragged back into the store by five store employees, including a managing agent of Albertsons and Vons Grocery Co. After Mailly was dragged into the store, store employees and the managing agent of Albertsons and Doe No. 1, continued to punch and kick him in a violent manner. A managing agent of Albertsons and Vons directed Does 2 through 6 to violently cut Mailly with an excruciatingly sharp knife or box cutter.The Court finds the allegations of the FAC are sufficient to state a claim for punitive damages. Plaintiff sufficiently alleges that Defendant’s conduct was malicious as a managing agent was personally guilty of malice by attacking Plaintiff and directing the employees to cut him with a sharp knife or box cutter.Defendant argues Plaintiff has not identified any of the alleged individuals who he claims attacked him other than they were alleged employees, and one was an alleged managing agent. However, Defendant has pointed to no authority that says Plaintiff must identify by name the managing agent. Moreover, at this early stage of the proceedings, it would be illogical to require Plaintiff to specifically name Defendant’s managing agent when discovery still needs to be completed. Rather, the facts alleged support the conclusion that Defendant’s qualifying agent engaged in malice.Defendant also argues that Albertsons is not involved in the operation or control of the subject store and no officer, director or managing agent of Vons works at the store level, plaintiff's allegation that an unidentified employee and alleged attacker was a managing agent is not supported by any facts or evidence. However, the grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Id. § 437.) Nowhere in the FAC does it say that Vons and Albertsons’ managing agent does not work at the store level. Further, Defendant has not requested judicial notice of any documents. As such, whether a managing agent was present at the store is extrinsic to the pleadings and cannot be considered at this stage of the pleadings. On a motion to strike, the Court notes that the allegations of the complaint are to be taken as true and viewed liberally and in context. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central California, Inc. (2010) 191 Cal.App.4th 53, 63 [“judges read allegations of a pleading subject to a motion to strike as a whole, all parts in their context, and assume their truth”].) This issue is more appropriate for a motion for summary judgment where the Court can consider evidence presented.Lastly, Defendant argues that California law provides that a cause of action in negligence cannot support an award for punitive damages as simple negligence falls short of the required oppression, fraud or malice required by Civil Code section 3294. (Jackson v. Johnson (1992) 5 Cal.App.4th 1350, 1354-55.) The Court disagrees. Punitive damages are “typically awarded for intentional torts” while “cases involving unintentional torts are far fewer.” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal. App. 4th 1188, 1212.) A tort involving negligence, together with conduct or omissions that one knows or should know probably will result in harm, can support an award of punitive damages. (Nolin v. National Convenience Stores, Inc. (1979) 95 Cal.App.3d 279, 286–288.) Here, the FAC alleges intentional acts, along with conduct that one should know will result in harm, such as stabbing someone.ConclusionBased on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to strike is DENIED.