  Case Number:  20STCV27497    Hearing Date:   April 26, 2024    Dept:  30 CELEDONIO MARTIN vs VALLEY VIEW INVESTMENT GROUP LLC, et al.TENTATIVEThe motion to substitute successor in interest is GRANTED. Moving party is ordered to give notice.Legal StandardCCP section 377.31 provides that “[o]n motion after the death of a person who commenced an action or proceeding, the court shall allow a pending action or proceeding that does not abate to be continued by the decedent’s personal representative or, if none, by the decedent’s successor in interest.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 377.31.)CCP section 377.32 provides that a person who seeks to commence such an action as the decedent’s successor in interest must file an affidavit or declaration providing the following:2. The decedent’s name3. The date and place of the decedent’s death4. “No proceeding is now pending in California for administration of the decedent’s estate.”5. If the decedent’s estate was administered, a copy of the final order showing the distribution of the decedent’s cause of action to the successor in interest6. Either of the following, as appropriate, with facts in support thereof:B. “The affiant or declarant is the decedent’s successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure) and succeeds to the decedent’s interest in the action or proceeding.”C. “The affiant or declarant is authorized to act on behalf of the decedent’s successor in interest (as defined in Section 377.11 of the California Code of Civil Procedure) with respect to the decedent’s interest in the action or proceeding.”7. “No other person has a superior right to commence the action or proceeding or to be substituted for the decedent in the pending action or proceeding.”8. “The affiant or declarant affirms or declares under penalty of perjury under the laws of the State of California that the foregoing is true and correct.”(Code Civ. Proc., § 377.32(a).) A certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate must also be attached to the affidavit or declaration. (Id., § 377.32(c).)“‘Decedent’s successor in interest’ means the beneficiary of the decedent’s estate or other successor in interest who succeeds to a cause of action or to a particular item of the property that is the subject of a cause of action.” (Code. Civ. Proc., § 377.11.) A “beneficiary of the decedent’s estate” means “if the decedent died without a will, the sole person or all of the persons who succeed to a cause of action, or to a particular item of property that is the subject of a cause of action, under Sections 6401¿and¿6402 of the Probate Code¿or, if the law of a sister state or foreign nation governs succession to the cause of action or particular item of property, under the law of the sister state or foreign nation.” (Code of Civ. Proc., § 377.10.)DiscussionSince the time of the filing of Plaintiff’s Complaint, Plaintiff has died. In light of his death, his sister Margarita Meza moves for an order permitting her substitution as the Successor in Interest to Plaintiff’s causes of action.Magarita Meza’s declaration is filed with the motion. The declaration satisfies the requirements of CCP section 377.32(a). Further, Plaintiff has attached a certified copy of the decedent’s death certificate to the declaration as required under CCP section 377.32(c). (Farokhzad Decl., Exh. A.)Thus, the motion to appoint Margarita Meza as successor in interest is GRANTED.