  Case Number:  23STCV22810    Hearing Date:   July 22, 2024    Dept:  51 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Upinder S.
Kalra, Department 51
 
HEARING DATE:   July
22, 2024                                      
 
CASE NAME:           Mario
Rogelio Bautista v. MF Buildings, et al.
 
CASE NO.:                23STCV22810 

 
MOTION
TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF THE FIRST AMENDED COMPLAINT
 
MOVING PARTY:  Defendants
MF Buildings, Peter A. Federov, Oleh Mulyar, and Mike Zwi Frohlich
 
RESPONDING PARTY(S): Plaintiff Mario Rogelio Bautista
 
REQUESTED RELIEF: 
 
1.      An
Order Striking Various Portions of the First Amended Complaint pertaining to
punitive damages, attorney’s fees, and references to improperly pled avenues of
recovery.
TENTATIVE RULING: 
 
1.      Motion
to Strike is GRANTED as to the Prayer for Relief No. 14, Page 27, lines 6-7: “A
restitution order requiring Defendants to pay improperly charged and retained
rent to PLAINTIFF and similarly situated current and former tenants of
Defendants.” and the Prayer for Relief No. 15, Page 27, lines 8-12: “An order
requiring Defendants to notify Defendants current and former tenants, who are
not parties to this action, of their right to make a claim for restitution,
establish a reasonable lime (sic) within such claims must be made to
defendants, and retain jurisdiction to adjudicate any disputes over entitlement
to, and the amount of restitution to be paid.”
2.      Motion
to Strike is DENIED as to remaining items.
STATEMENT OF MATERIAL FACTS AND/OR PROCEEDINGS: 
 
On September 21, 2023, Plaintiff Mario Rogelio Bautista
(Plaintiff) filed a Complaint against Defendants MF Buildings, Peter A.
Federoz, Oleh Mulyar, and Mike Zwi Frohlich (Defendants) with nine causes of
action.
 
On April 18, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative First
Amended Complaint (FAC) against the same Defendants with nine causes of action
for: (1) Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing; (2) Damages
for Breach of Implied Covenant of Quiet Enjoyment; (3) Breach of the Implied
Contractual Warranty of Habitability; (4) Tortious Breach of Warranty of
Habitability; (5) Damages for Violation of Civil Code §§ 1941 and 1941.1; (6)
Rental of Substandard Dwelling in Violation of Civil Code § 1942.4; (7) Damages
for Nuisance; (8) Damages for Violation of Business and Professions Code §
17200 et seq; and (9) Damages for Negligence.
 
According to the FAC, Plaintiff has been a tenant of a
triplex located at 702 W. 56th Street, Los Angeles, California 90037
(the Property) since about November 1, 2020. Plaintiff alleges there were
various defects at the Property of which he notified Defendants who did nothing
over a two-year span.  
 
On May 21, 2024, Defendants filed the instant Motion to
Strike Portions of the FAC. On July 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. Defendants
filed a reply on July 15, 2024.
 
LEGAL STANDARD: 
 
Meet and Confer¿ 
¿ 
Prior to filing a demurrer, the demurring party is required
to satisfy their meet and confer obligations pursuant to Code of Civ. Proc.
(CCP) §430.41 and demonstrate that they so satisfied their meet and confer
obligation by submitting a declaration pursuant to CCP §430.41(a)(2) &
(3).¿The meet and confer requirement also applies to motions to strike. (CCP §
435.5.) Here, Defendants send a meet and confer email to Plaintiff on May 16,
2024. (Page Decl. ¶ 12, Exhibit H.) This emailed letter called for a response
four days later. (Ibid.) The court is
not persuaded that this satisfies the meet and confer requirement. Still, failure to meet and confer is not a
sufficient ground to overrule or sustain a demurrer. (CCP § 430.41(a)(4).) 
 
Motion to Strike¿ 
¿ 
The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its
discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or
improper matter inserted in any pleading. (CCP § 436(a).) The court may also
strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with
the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court. (Id., § 436(b).) The grounds for moving
to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice.
(Id.¿§¿437.)¿“When the defect which
justifies striking a complaint is capable of cure, the court should allow leave
to amend.” (Vaccaro v. Kaiman¿(1998)
63 Cal.App.4th 761, 76
 
ANALYSIS: 
 
Defendants seek an order striking the following portions of
the FAC:
1.      Prayer
for Relief No. 5, Page 26, line 17: “Reasonably Attorney’s Fees”;
2.      Prayer
for Relief No. 7, Page 26, line 21: “Reasonable Attorney’s Fees”;
3.      Prayer
for Relief No. 8, Page 26, line 22: “Punitive Damages”;
4.      Prayer
for Relief No. 10, Page 26, line 26: “Reasonable Attorney’s Fees”;
5.      Prayer
for Relief No. 12, Page 27, line 4: “Reasonable Attorney’s Fees”;
6.      Prayer
for Relief No. 13, Page 27, line 3: “Reasonable Attorney’s Fees”;
7.      Prayer
for Relief No. 14, Page 27, lines 6-7: “A restitution order requiring
Defendants to pay improperly charged and retained rent to PLAINTIFF and
similarly situated current and former tenants of Defendants.”;
8.      Prayer
for Relief No. 15, Page 27, lines 8-12: “An order requiring Defendants to
notify Defendants current and former tenants, who are not parties to this
action, of their right to make a claim for restitution, establish a reasonable
lime (sic) within such claims must be made to defendants, and retain
jurisdiction to adjudicate any disputes over entitlement to, and the amount of
restitution to be paid.”;
9.      Prayer
for Relief No. 17, Page 27, line 17: “Costs of suit incurred in this action.”;
10.  Page
16, Lines 10-12: “The Lease provides for the payment of attorney’s fees in the
event litigation is commenced between the parties, and therefore PLAINTIFF is
entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees for Defendant’s breaches of the implied
covenant of good faith and fair dealing.”;
11.  Page
17, lines 2-4: “The Lease provides for the payment of attorney’s fees in the
event litigation is commenced between the parties, and therefore PLAINTIFF are
entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees.”;
12.  Page
17, lines 3-5: “The Lease provides for the payment of attorney’s fees in the
event litigation is commenced between the parties, and therefore PLAINTIFF is
entitled to reasonable attorney’s fees for Defendant’s breaches of the implied
warranty of habitability.”;
13.  Page
17, lines 21-27: “Defendants’ failure to put the PROPERTY and the UNIT into a
condition fit for human occupation at any time during Plaintiff’s occupancy,
together with Defendants’ failure to repair the defective and dangerous
conditions, or to have them repaired within a reasonable time, as alleged
above, were oppressive and malicious within the meaning of Civ. Code § 3294 in that they subjected PLAINTIFF’s rights and
safety, thereby entitling PLAINTIFF to an award of punitive damages.”; and
14.  Page
24, lines 4-6: “Plaintiff are entitled to recover attorney’s fees pursuant to Code of Civ. Pro § 1021.5 because
obtaining court prohibition of Defendant’s conduct, as alleged hereinabove will
result in the enforcement of an important right affecting the public interest.”
Punitive Damages
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiff failed to sufficiently
plead facts supporting punitive damages. Plaintiff argues he has. Specifically,
Plaintiff argues that he complained about rats, roaches, broken vents, broken
plumbing, which Defendants responded to via eviction proceedings and threatened
him via his immigration status.
 
To obtain punitive damages, a plaintiff
must plead sufficient facts in support of punitive damages.¿ (See¿Hilliard v. A.H. Robins Co.¿(1983) 148
Cal.App.3d 374, 391-92.)¿ In addition,¿punitive damages are allowed only where
“it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.”¿ (Civ. Code, § 3294,¿subd. (a).)¿
Courts have viewed despicable conduct as conduct “so vile, base, contemptible,
miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised
by ordinary decent people. (Scott v.
Phoenix Schools, Inc., (2009) 175 Cal.App.4th 702, 715.)¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
Further,
Civil Code § 3294(c) provides the definition of malice, oppression, and fraud.
Malice is “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to the
plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” Oppression
is “despicable conduct that subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in
conscious disregard of that person's rights.” Fraud is “an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”¿¿ 
 
Upon reviewing the FAC, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged
facts warranting punitive damages. Plaintiff alleges that the Property Manager
told him “You don’t have [immigration] papers, so we can evict you just like
that!” (FAC ¶ 58.) Uttering this in response to a tenant’s asking why their
landlord began eviction proceedings while believing they had an agreement about
paying delinquent rent is “loathsome [conduct] that . . . would be looked down
upon and despised by ordinary decent people.” (Scott, supra, 175 Cal.App.4th at p. 715.) Defendants’ argument that
the facts alleged are false is unpersuasive. (Clauson v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 1253, 1255.)
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Defendants’ motion to
strike as to punitive damages.
 
Attorney’s Fees
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s attorney’s fees are
capped by the lease agreement and are not otherwise provided for via statute.
Defendants additionally contend that CCP § 1021.5 do not authorize the
attorney’s fees that Plaintiff seeks because Plaintiff is not seeking to
enforce a right or benefit conferred on the general public or a large class of
persons.  
 
Plaintiff argues that the clause purportedly limiting
attorney’s fees in the lease is void as contrary to public policy pursuant to
Civ. Code § 1953(a)(4) and (5), Civ. Code § 3513, and Civ. Code § 1942.5.
Plaintiff additionally argues that attorney’s fees are warranted under Bus.
& Prof. Code § 17200 et seq. because he has a public purpose in bringing
this action.  
 
Unless a contract or statute provides otherwise, each party
to a lawsuit must pay its own attorney fees. (CCP § 1021; Brown Bark III, L.P. v. Haver (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 809, 818.) 
 
Upon reviewing the FAC, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged
facts warranting attorney’s fees. As noted above, the factual allegations of
the FAC are taken as true. (Clauson,
supra, 67 Cal.App.4th at 1255.) Here, Plaintiff alleges that the “Lease
provides for the payment of attorneys’ fees in the event litigation is
commenced between the parties . . . .” (FAC ¶ 80.) The lease is not attached to
the FAC and Defendants have not requested judicial notice of the lease.
Therefore, Defendants’ argument that essentially asks the court to interpret
the lease is improper via this motion to strike.[1]

 
Defendants’ argument against attorney’s fees pursuant to CCP
§ 1021.5 is similarly premature. 
 
CCP § 1021.5 states: “Upon motion, a court may award
attorneys’ fees to a successful party against one or more opposing parties in
any action which has resulted in the enforcement of an important right
affecting the public interest” subject to three conditions. (CCP § 1021.5.) 
 
Here, Plaintiff alleges entitlement to attorney’s fees
pursuant to § 1021.5 but whether he is actually entitled to them occurs after
he is deemed a “successful party” and meets the other requirements of that
section. Defendants cite no authority that striking this request is appropriate
at this time.
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Defendants’ motion to
strike as to attorney’s fees.
 
Costs
 
A prevailing party is entitled to costs. (CCP § 1021.) Therefore,
the court will not strike the portion of the Prayer that seeks costs of suit. 
 
Accordingly,
the court DENIES Defendants’ motion to strike as to costs.
 
Statutory Damages
 
Defendants contend that there are no statutory damages for
nuisance. Plaintiff did not provide argument as to this point.
 
The court notes that Defendants did not identify the
language they wish to strike pertaining to statutory damages and nuisance from
the FAC.
 
Accordingly, the court DENIES Defendants’ motion to
strike as to statutory damages for nuisance.
 
Restitution
 
Defendants contend that Plaintiff’s request for restitution
is improper because the instant action is not a civil action to enforce a
criminal conviction. Defendants further contend that Plaintiff cannot seek
restitution on behalf of unnamed parties not part of the instant action.
Plaintiff did not provide argument as to this point.
 
Upon reviewing the FAC, the court agrees with Defendants.
Plaintiff has insufficiently alleged a claim for restitution.
 
Accordingly, the court GRANTS Defendants’ motion to
strike the Prayer for Relief No. 14, Page 27, lines 6-7: “A restitution order
requiring Defendants to pay improperly charged and retained rent to PLAINTIFF
and similarly situated current and former tenants of Defendants.” and the
Prayer for Relief No. 15, Page 27, lines 8-12: “An order requiring Defendants
to notify Defendants current and former tenants, who are not parties to this
action, of their right to make a claim for restitution, establish a reasonable
lime (sic) within such claims must be made to defendants, and retain
jurisdiction to adjudicate any disputes over entitlement to, and the amount of
restitution to be paid.”
 
CONCLUSION:
 
            For
the foregoing reasons, the Court decides the pending motion as follows: 
 
1.      Motion
to Strike is GRANTED as to the Prayer for Relief No. 14, Page 27, lines 6-7: “A
restitution order requiring Defendants to pay improperly charged and retained
rent to PLAINTIFF and similarly situated current and former tenants of
Defendants.” and the Prayer for Relief No. 15, Page 27, lines 8-12: “An order
requiring Defendants to notify Defendants current and former tenants, who are
not parties to this action, of their right to make a claim for restitution,
establish a reasonable lime (sic) within such claims must be made to
defendants, and retain jurisdiction to adjudicate any disputes over entitlement
to, and the amount of restitution to be paid.”
2.      Motion
to Strike is DENIED as to remaining items.
 
Moving party is to give notice. 
 
IT IS SO ORDERED. 
 
Dated:              July 22, 2024                          __________________________________                                                                                                                Upinder
S. Kalra
                                                                                    Judge
of the Superior Court
 


