 Case Number:  24CHCV00071    Hearing Date:   May 15, 2024    Dept:  F47 Dept. F47
Date: 5/15/24
Case #24CHCV00071
 
DEMURRER TO THE
ORIGINAL COMPLAINT
 
Demurrer filed on 3/15/24.
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants Tatiana
Nayfeld LAC Inc., Tatiana Nayfeld and Mark Nayfeld
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff Teresa Arasheben
NOTICE: ok
 
Demurrer is to the entire complaint:
            1.  Negligence
 
RULING: The demurrer is sustained with 30 days
leave to amend.   
 
SUMMARY OF FACTS & PROCEDURAL HISTORY
 
This action arises out of Plaintiff Teresa Arasheben’s
(Plaintiff) tenancy at property located at 10780 Adora Ave., Unit A, in
Chatsworth, California.  Plaintiff
alleges that she rented the property from Defendant and owner, Mark Nayfeld.  The allegations in the complaint imply that Mark
Nayfeld resided in a neighboring property and that conditions on that property
caused the property where Plaintiff resided to become dangerous and infested
with bugs, fleas, and bed bugs. 
Plaintiff alleges that when she complained to Mark Nayfeld he became
enraged, retaliated against her and ultimately demanded Plaintiff leave to the
property.  Plaintiff alleges that she was
hospitalized with acute strep and pneumonia related to the conditions of the
property.  Plaintiff also alleges that
Mark Nayfeld and his unidentified wife would routinely harass and scare
Plaintiff.  
 
On 1/8/24, Plaintiff filed this action against Defendants
Tatiana Nayfeld LAC Inc., Tatiana Nayfeld and Mark
Nayfeld (collectively, Defendants) for negligence.  After Plaintiff’s counsel failed to respond
to Defendants’ counsel’s meet and confer efforts, Defendants filed the instant
demurrer to the complaint on the grounds that the complaint fails to allege
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action and the complaint is
uncertain.  CCP 430.10(e), (f).  Plaintiff has not opposed or otherwise
responded to the demurrer.  
 
ANALYSIS
 
The elements of a negligence cause of action are: (1)
duty, (2) breach, (3) causation and (4) damages.  See CACI 1000.  Landlords have a duty to put leased premises
in a condition fit for occupation.  Civil
Code 1941.  Additionally, landowners have
a duty to exercise reasonable care to discover unsafe conditions and to repair,
replace or give adequate warning of anything that could be reasonable expected
to harm others.  CACI 1001; See also
Soto (2020) 45 CA5th 168, 177; Civil Code 1714(a).
 
Here, Plaintiff has failed to allege any basis for a duty
owed to her by Defendants Tatiana Nayfeld LAC Inc.
and/or Tatiana Nayfeld.  As such, the
complaint fails to allege sufficient facts to state a negligence cause of
action against these Defendants and is uncertain as to the basis of Plaintiff’s
claim against them.  
 
The complaint is also uncertain as to Defendant Mark
Nayfeld as the negligence cause of action alleges that Defendant Tatiana
Nayfeld LAC Inc. was the legal/proximate cause of her damages, but then goes on
to allege conduct committed solely by Mark Nayfeld and his unidentified wife.  The relationship between the named defendants
is not clear.  
 
CONCLUSION
 
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer is sustained.  Due to the liberal policy of allowing leave
to amend and since this is only the original complaint, Plaintiff is given 30
days leave to amend to try to cure the defects in her pleading.      