 Case Number:  24VECV01236    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Martin
  Hanai,
         Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
Tesla
  Motors, Inc, et al, 
        
  Defendants.


   Case
  Number             Department
   24VECV01236       107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: DEFENDANT’S
  MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION 
 
 



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
Defendant Tesla
Motors, Inc. (“Defendant”) moves to compel arbitration of the claims brought by
Plaintiff Martin Hanai. This court grants the motion.
 
I. JUDICIAL NOTICE
Defendant requests
the court take judicial notice of Plaintiff’s complaint. The court need not
take judicial notice of a complaint that is part of the case file. 
Thus, Defendant’s
request for judicial notice is denied.
II. BACKGROUND
On February 15,
2023, Plaintiff purchased a Tesla Model Y from Defendant. (Ex. 2; Complaint ¶
27.) That same day, Plaintiff entered into a written warranty contract with
Defendant that included bumper-to-bumper coverage and a battery warranty for a
specified period of time or miles. (Complaint ¶¶ 7, 27.)  
 
On March 30, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a complaint alleging causes of action for breach of express
warranty and breach of implied warranty under the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act.  (Id. ¶ 9.) 
 
On April 23, 2024,
Defendant filed a motion to compel arbitration. 
Plaintiff filed an opposition on August 22, 2024. 
 
IV. DISCUSSION
 
Under both the Federal Arbitration Act and California
law, arbitration agreements are valid, irrevocable, and enforceable, except on
such grounds that exist at law or equity for voiding a contract. (Winter v.
Window Fashions Professions, Inc. (2008) 166 Cal.App.4th 943, 947.) “[T]he
right to arbitration depends upon contract; a petition to compel arbitration is
simply a suit in equity seeking specific performance of that contract.” (Marcus
& Millichap Real Estate Inv. Brokerage Co. v. Hock Inv. Co. (1998) 68
Cal. App.4th 83, 88.) 
 
The petitioner bears the burden of proving the
existence of a valid arbitration agreement by the preponderance of the
evidence, the party opposing the petition then bears the burden of proving by a
preponderance of the evidence any fact necessary to demonstrate that there
should be no enforcement of the agreement, and the trial court sits as a trier
of fact to reach a final determination on the issue. (Rosenthal v. Great
Western Financial Securities Corp. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 394, 413; Provencio
v. WMA Securities, Inc., 125 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1031.) The court is
empowered by California Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.2 to compel
parties to arbitrate disputes pursuant to an agreement to do so. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 1281.2.) 
   
“California law incorporates many of the basic policy
objectives contained in the Federal Arbitration Act, including a presumption in
favor of arbitrability.” (Engalla v. Permanente Medical Group, Inc.
(1997) 15 Cal.4th 951, 971–72.) “This strong policy has resulted in the general
rule that arbitration should be upheld unless it can be said with assurance
that an arbitration clause is not susceptible to an interpretation covering the
asserted dispute.” (Coast Plaza Doctors Hospital v. Blue Cross of California
(2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677, 686.) Notwithstanding that strong policy, the United
States Supreme Court has held, “[A]rbitration is a matter of contract and a
party cannot be required to submit to arbitration any dispute which he has not
agreed so to submit.” (AT & T Technologies, Inc. v. Communications
Workers of America (1986) 475 U.S. 643, 648.)
 
The hearing and determination of a petition to compel
arbitration “in the manner and upon the notice provided by law for the making
and hearing of motions” generally means that “the facts are to be proven by
affidavit or declaration and documentary evidence with oral testimony taken
only in the court's discretion.” (Sonic-Calabasas A, Inc. v. Moreno
(2013) 57 Cal.4th 1109, 1157.)
 

Existence of an Arbitration Agreement

 
The petitioner
bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by
the preponderance of the evidence. (Rosenthal v. Great Western Financial
Securities Corp., supra, 14 Cal.4th 394, 413.) 
 
Defendant submits
two Arbitration Agreements. (Kim Declaration.) 
 
The Motor Vehicle
Order Agreement provides, in relevant part, that “any dispute arising out of or
relating to any aspect of the relationship between [Plaintiff] and [Defendant]
will not be decided by a judge or jury but instead by a single arbitrator in an
arbitration administered by the American Arbitration Association (AAA) under
its Consumer Arbitration Rules.” (Ex. 1 at 3.) 
The agreement further provides that “[t]his includes claims arising
before this Agreement, such as claims related to statements about our
products.” (Id.)  The agreement
also states that the signer “will pay the filing fee directly to AAA and [Defendant]
will pay all subsequent AAA fees for the arbitration, except [Plaintiff] is responsible
for [their] own attorney, expert, and other witness fees and costs unless
otherwise provided by law. If [Plaintiff] prevail[s] on any claim, [Defendant]
will reimburse [Plaintiff’s] filing fee.” (Id.) The agreement has an
opt-out provision, providing Plaintiff may opt-out of the agreement by sending
a letter to Defendant within 30 days after signing the Agreement. (Id.)  If Plaintiff does not opt-out, “th[e]
agreement to arbitrate overrides any different arbitration agreement between
[the parties], including any arbitration agreement in a lease or finance
contract.” (Id.) Kim’s declaration states that Plaintiff would have
electronically accepted the Motor Vehicle Order Agreement’s terms when ordering
the vehicle online. (Kim Declaration ¶ 3.)
 
The Retail
Installment Sale Contract provides, in relevant part, that “[a]ny dispute,
whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise (including the interpretation
and scope of this Arbitration Provision, any allegation of waiver of  rights under this Arbitration Provision, and
the arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between [Plaintiff] and [Defendant]
. . . which arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase or
condition of this Vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or
relationship . . . shall, at [Plaintiff’s] or [Defendant’s] election, be resolved
by neutral, binding arbitration and not by court action.” (Ex. 2 at 5.) The
agreement further provides that Defendant shall pay the filing, administration,
service, or case management fee and the arbitrator or hearing fee up to a
maximum of $5,000, unless the law or the rules of the chosen arbitration
organization require[s Defendant] to pay more.” (Id.) But “[t]he amount
[Defendant] pay[s] may be reimbursed in whole or in part by decision of the
arbitrator if the arbitrator finds that any of [Plaintiff’s] claims [are]
frivolous under applicable law.” (Id.) 
Under the agreement, each party is responsible for “its own attorney,
expert, and under fees, unless awarded by the arbitrator under applicable law.”
(Id.) Kim’s declaration states that Plaintiff signed the Retail
Installment Sale Contract when Plaintiff purchased the vehicle. (Kim
Declaration ¶ ¶ 3, 8.) 
 
Accordingly,
Defendant has met his burden of proving that a valid arbitration agreement
exists. The burden, therefore, shifts to Plaintiff.
 

Unconscionability

 
Plaintiff appears
to only challenge the Motor Vehicle Order Agreement that he entered into online
while ordering the vehicle. (Opposition at ii, 3.) Plaintiff argues the
agreement is unenforceable because it is unconscionable. (Opposition at ii, 3.)

 
The doctrine of
unconscionability applies to arbitration agreements. (Peng v. First Republic
Bank (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 1462, 1469.) Civil Code section 1670.5,
subdivision (a) provides, “If the court as a matter of law finds the
contract or any clause of the contract to have been unconscionable at the time
it was made the court may refuse to enforce the contract.” 
 
“Unconscionability
has both a ‘procedural’ and a ‘substantive’ element, the former focusing on
‘oppression’ or ‘surprise’ due to unequal bargaining power, the latter on
‘overly harsh’ or ‘one-sided’ results. The prevailing view is that procedural
and substantive unconscionability must both be present in
order for a court to exercise its discretion to refuse to enforce a contract or
clause under the doctrine of unconscionability. But they need not be present in
the same degree. The more substantively oppressive the contract term, the less
evidence of procedural unconscionability is required to come to the conclusion
that the term is unenforceable, and vice versa.” (Peng v. First Republic
Bank, supra, 219 Cal.App.4th at p. 1469, internal citations omitted,
emphasis original.) “Ordinary contracts of adhesion, although
they are indispensable facts of modern life that are generally enforced,
contain a degree of procedural unconscionability.” (Baltazar v. Forever
21, Inc. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1237, 1244.)
 
i.      
Procedural Unconscionability
 
Plaintiff argues
the agreement is procedurally unconscionable because it is an adhesion
contract. (Opposition at 3.) “A procedural
unconscionability analysis ‘begins with an inquiry into whether the contract is
one of adhesion.” (OTO, L.L.C. v. Kho, (2019) 8 Cal.5th 111, 116.)
“An adhesive contract is standardized, generally on a preprinted form, and
offered by the party with superior bargaining power ‘on a take-it-or-leave-it
basis.” (Id.) Procedural unconscionability also “focus[es] on oppression
and surprise due to unequal bargaining power.” (Swain v. LaserAway Medical
Group, Inc. (2020) 57 Cal.App.5th 59, 69.) “[O]pression occurs
where a contract involves lack of negotiation and meaningful choice, surprise
where the allegedly unconscionable provision is hidden within a prolix
printed form.” (Id.) “[A]n opt[-]out provision does not insulate
an arbitration agreement from a finding of procedural unconscionability.” (Id.)
Factors relevant to oppression include: “(1) the amount of time the party is
given to consider the proposed contract; (2) the amount and type of pressure
exerted on the party to sign the proposed contract; (3) the length of the
proposed contract and the length and complexity of the challenged provision;
(4) the education and experience of the party; and (5) whether the party’s
review of the proposed contract was aided by an attorney.” (Id.) 
 
Here,
the agreement was part of a standardized, pre-printed form that Plaintiff
accepted while placing an order for the vehicle. (Kim Declaration ¶ 3.) Accordingly,
the agreement is an adhesion contract. Further, Defendant had superior
bargaining power because, without accepting the electronic terms and
conditions, Plaintiff would not have been able to place the order. (Id. ¶
4.) 
 
The
agreement was part of the online order process. (Kim Declaration ¶ 3.) Accordingly,
Plaintiff presumably had an unlimited amount of time to review the agreement.
Further, Defendant asserted some pressure on Plaintiff because Plaintiff could
not purchase the vehicle without agreeing to the terms.
(Kim Declaration ¶ 3.)  But the
agreement provided that Plaintiff could opt-out. (Ex. 1 at 3.) The agreement is
also less than a page long, so it is relatively short. (Ex. 1 at 3.) Finally,
there has been no evidence submitted regarding Plaintiff’s education and
experience or whether Plaintiff was aided by an attorney while reviewing the
agreement. Accordingly, one circumstance relevant to oppression is present here.
 
Further, although
the agreement is within a five-page document, it is written in simple language
and there is a box surrounding the arbitration section. (Id.)
Accordingly, surprise is minimally present here.
 
Accordingly, this court
finds that there is a small degree of procedural unconscionability.
 
ii.    
Substantive Unconscionability
 
“Substantive
unconscionability examines the fairness of a contract’s terms.” (OTO, L.L.C.
v. Kho, supra, 8 Cal.5th at p. 129.)  “This may include fine-print terms,
unreasonably or unexpectedly harsh terms regarding price or other central
aspects of the transaction, and terms that undermine the nondrafting party’s
reasonable expectations.” (Id.)  
 
Plaintiff argues the agreement is
substantively unconscionable because it provides for inadequate discovery.  (Opposition at 5.) Specifically,
Plaintiff argues that “to vindicate his rights including obtaining civil
penalties” Plaintiff will need to take depositions, and serve Interrogatories,
Request for Admission, and Request for Production of Documents and that Rule 22
precludes Plaintiff from doing so. (Opposition at 4-5.)  
 
Here, the agreement provides that
“arbitration will be administered by the American Arbitration Association (AAA)
under its Consumer Arbitration Rules.” (Ex. at 3.) Rule 22 of the AAA’s
Consumer Arbitration Rules provides that “[i]f any party asks or if the
arbitrator decides on his or her own, keeping in mind that arbitration must
remain a fast and economical process, the arbitrator may direct 1) specific
documents and other information to be shared between the consumer and business,
and 2) that the consumer and business identify the witnesses, if any, they plan
to have testify at the hearing.” (Ex. C.) Rule 22 further provides that “[n]o
other exchange of information beyond what is provided for . . . above is
contemplated under these Rules, unless an arbitrator determines further
information exchange is needed to provide for a fundamentally fair process.” (Id.)
 
Although “parties are entitled to
discovery sufficient to vindicate their claims . . . discovery limitations are
an integral and permissible part of the arbitration process.” (Dotson v.
Amgen, Inc. (2010) 181 Cal.App.4th 975, 983-984 [finding an
arbitration provision that allowed the arbitrator to order additional discovery
“upon a showing of need” was not unconscionable when it did “not require a
showing of ‘substantial’ or ‘compelling’ need or contain any other limitation
on the arbitrator’s power to grant further discovery.”].)  Moreover, if an agreement “allow[s] the
arbitrator to order additional discovery as needed to allow a full and fair
exploration of the issues in dispute, the discovery provisions would be valid.”
(Ramirez v. Charter Communications, Inc. (2024) 16 Cal.App.478, 507.) 
 
Here, the arbitrator may order
additional discovery if it “is needed to provide for a fundamentally fair
process.”  (Ex. C.) Accordingly, discovery
through arbitration may be more limited than discovery under the Rules of Civil
Procedure, but the agreement is not highly unconscionable. (Ex. C.)
 
Plaintiff argues “[t]his is
inherently arbitrary especially with an arbitrator who likely may be biased due
to an incentive to retain the exclusivity arrangement with Defendant for all of
its motor vehicles and disputes.” (Opposition at 5.) But the court “assume[s]
that the arbitrator will operate in a reasonable manner in conformity with the
law.” (Dotson v. Amgen, Inc., supra, 181 Cal.App.4th at p. 984.) Rule
22’s discovery provision does not render the agreement here substantively
unconscionable.
 
Thus, although this
court finds a small degree of procedural unconscionability, there is no substantive
unconscionability. As such, the agreement is not unconscionable.
 

Public Policy

 
“[A]ny waiver by
the buyer of consumer goods of the provisions of [the Song-Beverly Consumer
Warranty Act (the “Act”)] except as expressly provided in [the Act] shall be
deemed contrary to public policy and shall be unenforceable and void.” (Rheinhart
v. Nissan North America, Inc. (2023) 92 Cal.App.4th 1016, 1020.)  In Rheinhart, the Plaintiff signed a
settlement agreement and release that released the Defendant from “any and all
claims, lawsuits, liens, debts, dues, damages, judgments, executions and
demands of every kind, whether currently known or unknown, and whether arising
in the past or present . . . which relate to [Plaintiff’s vehicle.]” (Id. at
1021.)   The Court found the release was
contrary to public policy and therefore void because it “contravened [Plaintiff’s]
right to elect the Act’s substantive remedies of replacement or restitution.” (Id.
at 1036.) Plaintiff argues the agreement here is analogous to Rhinehart and
therefore void as against public policy because it precludes Plaintiff from
fairly vindicating his statutory rights under the Act. (Opposition at 6.)
 
Unlike Rhinehart,
the agreement here requires the parties to arbitrate their disputes, but it does
not release Defendant from potential liability under the Act. (Ex. 1.)  Accordingly, the agreement is not void as
contrary to public policy.
 
d.     Stay
of Proceedings
Code of Civil Procedure section 1281.4 provides in pertinent part,
 
If a court of competent jurisdiction, whether in this State or not, has
ordered arbitration of a controversy which is an issue involved in an action or
proceeding pending before a court of this State, the court in which such action
or proceeding is pending shall, upon motion of a party to such action or
proceeding, stay the action or proceeding until an arbitration is had in
accordance with the order to arbitrate or until such earlier time as the court
specifies.
 
 “A stay is appropriate where in the
absence of a stay, the continuation of the proceedings in the trial court
disrupts the arbitration proceedings and can render them ineffective.” (Coast
Plaza Doctors Hosp. v. Blue Cross of California (2000) 83 Cal.App.4th 677,
693.)
When a court grants a petition to compel arbitration,
the court must also order a stay of pending litigation, while the related
arbitration is proceeding and until the arbitration is
resolved. (C.C.P. § 1281.4; Gaines v Fidelity Nat'l Title Ins.
Co. (2016) 62 Cal.4th 1081, 1091-1092; Thomas v Westlake (2012) 204
Cal.App.4th 605, 620.  Accordingly, all
proceedings are STAYED pending the outcome of arbitration. A stay is not
automatic. (Dial 800 v Fesbinder (2004) 118 Cal.App.4th 32, 45.)
 
e.      Conclusion
 
Accordingly, this court
GRANTS Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration. This action is STAYED pending
the outcome of the arbitration. Defendants are hereby ORDERED to file and serve on
Plaintiff a notice of the stay forthwith. (C.C.P. § 1281.4; Cal Rules
of Ct 3.650(a), (b)(2).)
 
 
Dated:             September
25, 2024                                        _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon.
Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court