  Case Number:  22STCV17662    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




Daganas,
        
       Plaintiff,
 
   v.
 
San
  Fernando Valley R.C. Flyers, Inc. et al.
 
        
  Defendants.


   Case
  Number             Department
  22STCV17662                      107




 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE] RULING RE: 
Summary
  Judgment / Summary Adjudication   



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE RULING IN THE ABOVE CASE]: 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            An errant radio-controlled (RC) model airplane injured
Plaintiff Francisco Daganas, Jr. on February 11, 2022, at the Apollo XI model
airplane field in the City of Los Angeles. Plaintiff went to the field to fly
his drone, and afterwards went to sit in the area where RC pilots prepare
planes for flight. The errant plane, operated by Defendant Van Alexander,
struck Plaintiff while in that area. 
 
            Plaintiffs Francisco Daganas, Jr. and his wife Melody
Frayco have brought the present action against Defendants Van Alexander, San
Fernando Valley R.C. Flyers, Inc. (Valley Flyers), Academy of Model
Aeronautics, Inc. (AMA), the City of Los Angeles (Los Angeles), and Does 1–50,
inclusive, alleging the following causes of action: (1) negligence; (2)
premises liability; (3) negligent infliction of emotional distress with Frayco
as a direct victim; (4) loss of consortium for Frayco; and (5) products
liability as to only the Doe Defendants.
 
 Plaintiffs filed their complaint on May 27,
2022. Defendants Valley Flyers, AMA, and Los Angeles filed a motion for summary
judgment on August 10, 2023. On March 15, 2024, Defendant Alexander moved to
join the other Defendants’ motion for summary judgment. Plaintiffs filed an
opposition on May 14, 2024, and filed a supplemental brief opposing joinder on
May 23, 2024. Defendants filed a reply on July 12, 2024. Plaintiffs filed a
second supplemental opposition on August 21, 2024. Defendants filed a
supplemental reply on September 11, 2024.
 
Summary judgment is GRANTED as to
AMA, Valley Flyers, and Los Angeles, because they have demonstrated assumption
of the risk doctrine is a complete defense to Plaintiffs’ causes of action, and
Plaintiffs have failed to demonstrate any triable issue of material fact exists
as to that defense. Summary adjudication is GRANTED as to Alexander with
respect to Frayco’s cause of action for negligent infliction of emotional
distress, because Alexander has demonstrated that Frayco cannot prove an
essential element of her claim, and she has failed to demonstrate any triable
issue of fact exists as to that element. Summary adjudication is DENIED as to
Alexander with respect to Daganas’s cause of action for negligence and Frayco’s
derivative claim for loss of consortium, because while Alexander has
demonstrated that assumption of the risk doctrine is a complete defense to
Daganas’s cause of action, Daganas has shown that a triable issue of material
fact still exists as to that claim.
 
MOVING PARTY POSITION
             
            Alexander moves to join AMA, Valley Flyers, and Los
Angeles in their motion for summary judgment. All argue that Plaintiffs cannot
establish the elements of a negligence cause of action. Additionally,
Defendants argue that the primary assumption of the risk doctrine acts as a
complete defense. AMA and Valley Flyers argue that Plaintiffs cannot show a causal
connection between their actions and Daganas’s injury. Los Angeles argues it
has statutory immunity pursuant to Government Code section 831.7. Defendants
argue that Frayco’s claim for loss of consortium fails as it is derivative to
Daganas’s cause of action for negligence. Defendants also contend that Frayco’s
claim for negligent infliction of emotional distress on a direct victim theory
fails because she has not demonstrated Defendants owed her a duty.
 
OPPOSITION
             
            Plaintiffs argue that the Court should deny Alexander’s
joinder because his assumption of the risk defense is preempted by federal law,
or alternatively, fails because he acted recklessly. Plaintiffs also argue that
AMA, Valley Flyers, and Los Angeles’s assumption of the risk defenses fail
because they increased the risks associated with flying RC airplanes.
Plaintiffs contend that Los Angeles is not entitled to immunity under section
831.7. Additionally, Daganas argues that he can show a causal connection
between the actions of AMA and Valley Flyers and his injury. 
            
 
REPLY
 
            Defendants
argue that the assumption of the risk defense applies to all, that the
exceptions to governmental immunity in Government Code section 831.7,
subdivision (c), do not apply, and that federal preemption is inapplicable.
            
 
ANALYSIS
I.               
Preliminary
Matters
A.        Alexander’s
motion for joinder is granted.
Alexander has filed a motion to
join AMA, Valley Flyers, and Los Angeles’s motion for summary judgment. Alexander
filed his motion more than 75 days in advance of the present hearing on summary
judgment in compliance with Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision
(a)(2). He has also filed his own separate statement of undisputed facts, as
required by Barak v. Quisenberry Law Firm (2006) 135 Cal.4th 654,
660–661. Previously, separate counsel represented Alexander. Now, the same
counsel represents Alexander, AMA, Valley Flyers, and Los Angeles. (Saiki Decl.
Supporting Joinder, ¶¶ 5–6.) The assumption of the risk doctrine may be
applicable to all Defendants. Thus, Alexander has demonstrated that his
interests are identical to those of the moving Defendants. Plaintiffs do not
object that Alexander’s interests are identical. Accordingly, Alexander’s
motion for joinder is granted.
B.        Plaintiffs’
Evidentiary Objections
Plaintiffs’ objection to the
admitting of their own complaint is overruled. All of Plaintiffs’ objections to
the Declaration of Rudy Balinia are overruled. Plaintiffs’ first objection to
the Declaration of Jason Mansfield is sustained, as it assumes facts not in
evidence, and their second objection is overruled.
II.            
Summary
Judgment Legal Standard
Motions
for summary judgment or adjudication allow a determination as to whether an
opposing party cannot show evidentiary support for a claim and enable an order
of summary dismissal without the need for trial. (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) In analyzing summary judgment
motions, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues
framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the
opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated
the existence of a triable, material factual issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade
Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) Thus, a court grants summary
judgment when, after considering the evidence set forth in the papers and
making all reasonable inferences accordingly, no triable issues of fact exist,
and the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c); Villa v. McFarren (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th
733, 741.) 
 
As
to each claim, the defendant moving for summary judgment must satisfy the
initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate an essential element or
establish a defense. (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.) Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of
the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence
in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc.¿(2006) 39
Cal.4th 384, 389.) A motion for summary judgment must be denied where the
moving party’s evidence does not prove all material facts, even in the absence
of any opposition (Leyva v. Superior Court (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 462,
475) or where the opposition is weak. (Salesguevara v. Wyeth Labs., Inc.
(1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 379, 384, 387.)   
 
A
defendant has met its burden of showing that a cause of action has no merit if
it demonstrates the absence of any single essential element of the plaintiff’s
case or a complete defense to their action. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(2); Bacon v. Southern Cal. Edison Co.
(1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 854, 858.) Once the defendant moving party has met its
burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show that a triable issue of
material facts exists as to a cause of action or a defense thereto. (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(2).) 
 
Where
a plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of a cause of action, or
where a complete defense is shown, a court must grant a motion for summary
adjudication. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(1)–(2).) A defendant
meets its burden by showing that “one or more elements of a cause of action . .
. cannot be established.” (Ibid.; Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 853.) 
 
III.          
Assumption
of the Risk
Defendants move for summary
judgment on the basis that the primary assumption of the risk doctrine is a
complete defense to Daganas’s cause of action for negligence. Under the
doctrine of primary assumption of the risk, defendants do not owe a duty of
care to a plaintiff in certain situations involving a dangerous activity. (McGarry
v. Sax (2008) 158 Cal.App.4th 983, 999.) Many different sports and
recreational activities qualify for the application of this doctrine. (Kindrich
v. Long Beach Yacht Club (2008) 167 Cal.App.4th 1252.) 
In determining whether the defense
applies, courts “must evaluate the fundamental nature of the sport and the
defendant’s role in or relationship to that sport in order to determine whether
the defendant owes a duty to protect a plaintiff from the particular risk of
harm.” (Avila v. Citrus Community College Dist. (2006) 38 Cal.4th 148,
161.) The defense applies where, “by virtue of the nature of the activity and
the parties’ relationship to the activity, the defendant owes no legal duty to
protect the plaintiff from the particular risk of harm that caused the injury.”
(Knight v. Jewett (1992) 3 Cal.4th 296, 314–315.) Plaintiffs assume
risks inherent in a sport by participating, and defendants generally owe no
duty to protect plaintiffs from such risks but owe a duty not to increase the
risks beyond those inherent in the sport. (Luna v. Vela (2008) 169
Cal.App.4th 102, 107–110.) Additionally, if a participant “engages in conduct
that is so reckless as to be totally outside the range of the ordinary activity
involved in the sport,” that person may still owe a duty to other participants.
(Id. at p. 320.)
A.             
Defendants
have met their burden of showing the primary assumption of the risk doctrine
applies to the present case.
First, the Court must determine
whether the primary assumption of the risk doctrine applies to the recreational
activity of flying RC planes. While the doctrine is most commonly applied to
competitive sports, Defendants point to cases applying it to other recreational
activities including waterskiing (Ford v. Gouin (1992) 3 Cal.4th 339),
bumper car rides at an amusement park (Nalwa v. Cedar Fair, L.P. (2012)
55 Cal.4th 1148.), golf (Dilger v. Moyles (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 1452),
and sailing (Stimson v. Carlson 
(1992) 11 Cal.App.4th 1201). These activities all involve the potential
for injury from collision with a fast-moving object. Similarly, flying RC
planes, particularly at a venue with many different operators, carries the risk
of being hit by an errant plane. (Mansfield Decl. ¶ 9.) Thus, the Court finds
that Defendants have met their burden of showing the primary assumption of the
risk doctrine applies to the activity of operating RC airplanes.
Next, the Court must determine
whether the parties’ relationship to the activity justifies application of the
doctrine. Defendants argue that the doctrine applies to both spectators and
participants in an activity. Brown v. San Francisco Ball Club (1950) 99
Cal.App.2d 484, 488 supports this proposition. There, an errant baseball struck
a spectator, and the Court of Appeal held that the assumption of the risk
doctrine applied. (Ibid.) The court noted that the spectator had
voluntarily occupied a seat without protective screening, when other more
protected seats were available. (Ibid.) Similarly, the pit area where Daganas
chose to sit is less protected and not necessarily meant for spectating.
(Mansfield Decl. ¶ 13.) Prior to sitting in that area, Daganas actively engaged
in RC flying with his own drone. (Daganas Decl. ¶ 4.) Because Daganas was
involved in the recreational activity himself and chose to sit in an area which
carried the risk of being struck by an errant plane, Defendants have
demonstrated that the primary assumption of the risk doctrine should apply.
B.             
Daganas
has met his burden to show that a triable issue of material fact still exists
as to the assumption of risk defense of Alexander but has not met his burden
with respect to the other defendants. 
Because Defendants have met their
burden of showing a complete defense to Daganas’s negligence claim, the burden
shifts to Daganas to demonstrate that a triable issue of material fact still
exists with respect to that defense. With respect to Valley Flyers, AMA, and Los
Angeles, Daganas contends that a triable issue of material fact still exists as
to whether he participated in RC flying or merely acted as a spectator.
However, as noted above, this distinction does not affect the assumption of the
risk defense in the present case when considering Brown. 
Next, Daganas argues that the
defense does not apply because AMA, Valley Flyers, or Los Angeles failed to
construct protection between taxiing planes and the public. Indeed, “an
operator of a sporting facility has a duty to use due care not to increase the
risks to a participant over and above those inherent in the sport.” (Branco
v. Kearny Moto Park, Inc. (1995) 37 Cal.App.4th 184.) Here, being struck by
an RC plane is an inherent risk of RC plane piloting or spectating, given the
possibility of malfunction or operator error. However, Defendants’ failure to construct
fencing at ground level to protect operators and spectators from taxiing planes
does not increase the risks above those inherent in the activity; the risk of a
collision would remain from planes falling out of the sky. Thus, Daganas has
not met his burden of demonstrating a triable issue of material fact exists
with respect to the defense of AMA, Valley Flyers, and Los Angeles under the
primary assumption of the risk doctrine. Summary adjudication is granted as to
these defendants.[1]
Daganas argues separately that a
triable issue of material fact still exists with respect to the primary
assumption of the risk defense raised by Alexander. If a participant “engages
in conduct that is so reckless as to be totally outside the range of the
ordinary activity involved in the sport,” that person may still owe a duty. (Luna,
supra, at p. 320.) Here, Daganas has offered evidence that Alexander
taxied his plane in a restricted area, increasing the risk of harm to
spectators and participants alike. (Aboav Decl. ¶ 7.) This evidence could
support a jury finding that the primary assumption of the risk doctrine does
not apply because Alexander acted recklessly by breaking safety rules. Thus, Daganas
has met his burden and summary adjudication on this issue is denied as to
Alexander.[2]
IV.          
Elements
of Negligence
Alexander argues that Daganas
cannot establish three of the elements of negligence. The elements of
negligence are duty, breach, causation, and damages. (County of Santa Clara
v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318.) It is Alexander’s
burden to show that one of the elements of Daganas’s cause of action has not
been met. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (o)(2).) 
Alexander asserts that Daganas
fails to establish the elements of duty, breach, and causation. He offers no
specific argument as to each, aside from arguing that he owed Daganas no duty
under the primary assumption of the risk doctrine. As discussed above, as to
Alexander, Daganas has presented evidence sufficient to show a triable issue of
material fact as to that defense; thus, he has also shown a triable issue of
material fact as to duty. Alexander has not offered evidence showing how Daganas
cannot establish the elements of breach and causation. (MSJ, p. 8:1–1.) Assuming
Alexander owed Daganas a duty, the way in which Alexander operated his plane
could constitute breach and could be the cause of Daganas’s injury. Thus, Alexander
has not met his burden of showing how those three elements could not be met,
and summary judgment is denied.
V.             
Loss
of Consortium
Defendants move for summary
judgment on the ground that Frayco’s claim for loss of consortium is derivative
to Daganas’s negligence claim. Indeed, a claim for loss of consortium fails
where it is dependent on other causes of action that fail. (Taylor v.
Elliott Turbomachinery Co., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 564, 596, fn. 16.)
Here, AMA, Valley Flyers, and Los Angeles have demonstrated that there is no
genuine dispute of material fact as to their primary assumption of the risk
defense. Thus, Frayco’s claim for loss of consortium also fails against them as
a matter of law. Summary adjudication is granted as to Frayco’s claim for loss
of consortium against these defendants, but it is denied as to Alexander
because Daganas’s negligence cause of action still applies to that defendant.
VI.          
Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress
Alexander moves for summary adjudication
as to Frayco’s claim for negligent infliction of emotional distress on a direct
victim theory, arguing that they owed her no duty. Frayco does not contest Alexander’s
argument. In direct victim cases, damages for serious emotional distress are
sought based on breach of a duty owed to the plaintiff that is “assumed by the
defendant or imposed on the defendant as a matter of law, or that arises out of
a relationship between the two.” (Marlene F. v. Affiliated Psychiatric
Medical Clinic, Inc. (1989) 48 Cal.3d 583, 590.) In cases following a
bystander theory, recovery depends instead on if the plaintiff “(1) is closely
related to the injury victim; (2) is present at the scene of the
injury-producing event at the time it occurs and is then aware that it is
causing injury to the victim; and (3) as a result suffers serious emotional
distress — a reaction beyond that which would be anticipated in a disinterested
witness and which is not an abnormal response to the circumstances.” (Downey
v. City of Riverside (2024) 16 Cal.5th 539, 550.) 
Here, the alleged duty owed by Alexander
is the duty of care to a spectator, which extends to that person’s spouse.
(Compl. ¶ 49.) This is not a recognized duty in negligent infliction of
emotional distress cases. Such a duty would result in separate tort liability
to the spouse of any person injured in any negligence case. Even under a
bystander theory, Frayco could not recover because she was not present at the
scene of the injury producing event. (Compl. ¶¶ 49–50.) Thus, Alexander has met
his burden of showing that Frayco cannot provide evidentiary support for an
element of her claim. Frayco has not produced any evidence to the contrary.
Thus, Alexander’s motion of summary adjudication as to Frayco’s claim for
negligent infliction of emotional distress under a direct victim theory is granted.
VII.        
Conclusion
 
Summary judgment is GRANTED as to
AMA, Valley Flyers, and the City of Los Angeles. Summary adjudication is
GRANTED as to Alexander with respect to Frayco’s cause of action for negligent
infliction of emotional distress. Summary adjudication is DENIED as to
Alexander with respect to Daganas’s cause of action for negligence and Frayco’s
derivative claim for loss of consortium.
 
 
Dated:             September
25, 2024                                        _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon.
Eric Harmon
Judge
of the Superior Court


