 Case Number:  23VECV03021    Hearing Date:   September 25, 2024    Dept:  107 


 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT
  OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
COUNTY OF LOS
  ANGELES
NORTHWEST
  DISTRICT
 




KASOWER
  PROPERTIES, LLC,
 
Plaintiff.
 
   v.
 
BORIS
  DOBRIN, et al., 
Defendant.
 


 
 
   Case Number             Department
  23VECV03021              107




 
 
COURT’S [TENTATIVE]
  DECISION RE:       
DEFENDANT
  THE TESTING COMPANY, LLC’S MOTION TO QUASH SERVICE OF SUMMONS



[THE FOLLOWING IS A TENTATIVE
DECISION:]
 
 
Specially Appearing
Defendant the Testing Company, LLC (“Defendant”) moves for an order quashing
the service of summons and first amended complaint by Plaintiff Kasower
Properties, LLC. (Motion to Quash (“Motion”) at pp. 1-2.)
 

JUDICIAL NOTICE

 
Defendant the Testing
Company LLC (“Defendant”) requests the Court take judicial notice of: 
 

Limited Liability Company
     Articles of Organization for The Testing Company LLC. filed with the
     Wyoming Secretary of State on May 3, 2021. (Ex. RJN 1.)

 

Application to Register a
     Foreign Limited Liability Company (LLC) by The Testing Company LLC. filed
     with the California Secretary of State on October 7, 2021. (Ex. RJN 2.)

 

Articles of Organization for
     The Testing Company LLC filed with the California Secretary of State on
     May 20, 2020. (Ex. RJN 3.)

 

Statement of Information by
     The Testing Company LLC. filed as The Testing Co LLC with the California
     Secretary of State on May 16, 2023. (Ex. RJN 4.)

 

Limited Liability Company
     Annual Report by The Testing Company LLC. filed with the Wyoming Secretary
     of State on or about May 1, 2023. (Ex. RJN 5.)

 
The Court grants Defendant the Testing Company LLC’s
requests for judicial notice Nos. 1-5. (Evid. Code, § 452(c), (g), (h).)
 
Plaintiff’s request
that the Court take judicial notice of its Proof of Service filed May 29, 2024,
which is a document in the instant case file, is denied, for there is no need
to take judicial notice of case filings because the Court can always review the
file for the case at hand. (Ex. A.)  

BACKGROUND

 
On
November 11, 2022, Plaintiff entered into a commercial lease with Defendant.
(First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) ¶10.) Defendant Boris Dobrin (“Dobrin”)
executed a Guaranty of Lease agreement. (FAC ¶11.) Defendant defaulted on
the lease. (FAC ¶14.) 
 
On
July 10, 2023, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Dobrin alleging a single
cause of action for breach of contract. (Complaint ¶¶12-17.)  On May 17, 2024, Plaintiff filed its FAC
alleging five causes of action and naming additional defendants, including Defendant.
(FAC at pp. 1-2.)
 
On May 29, 2024,
Plaintiff filed a Proof of Service indicating Defendant was served by personal
service. (Proof of Service Summons; Ex. A.) The Proof of Service provides that
the party served was “THE TESTING COMPANY, LLC, a Wyoming limited liability
company,” and the person served was “Isiah Z., Authorized to Accept for
Businessrocket, Inc. Agent for Service of Process.” (Id.) 
 
On June 24, 2024,
Defendant filed a motion to quash service of summons.  Plaintiff filed an opposition on July 8,
2024. Defendant filed a reply on July 12, 2024.  
 

LEGAL STANDARD

 
A
motion to quash service of summons may be brought on the grounds that the court
lacks personal jurisdiction over the defendant. (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 418.10, subd. (a)(1).) “[W]here a defendant properly moves to quash service of summons the
burden is on the plaintiff to prove facts requisite to an
effective service.” (Sheard v. Superior Court (1974) 40 Cal.App.3d
207, 211.)  
 
“A
summons may be served on a corporation by delivering a copy of the summons and
the complaint . . . [t]o the person designated as agent for service of
process[.]” (Code Civ. Proc., § 415.10(a).) “Actual notice of the action alone
. . . is not a substitute for proper service and is not sufficient to confer
jurisdiction.” (American Express Centurion Bank v. Zara, supra,
Cal.App.4th at p. 392.)
 
“When a defendant
moves to quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has
the initial burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of
jurisdiction.  Once facts showing minimum
contacts with the forum state are established, however, it becomes the
defendant’s burden to demonstrate that the exercise of jurisdiction would be
unreasonable.”  (Vons Companies, Inc.
v. Seabest Foods, Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 449 (Citations Omitted).)
  
Filing
a proof of service by a registered process server creates a rebuttable
presumption that service was proper. (American Express Centurion Bank v.
Zara, 199 Cal.App.4th 383, 390; Evid. Code, § 647 [“The return of a process
server registered pursuant to… the Business and Professions Code upon process
or notice establishes a presumption, affecting the burden of producing
evidence, of the facts stated in the return”].) However, the presumption
only arises if the proof of service complies with the statutory requirements
regarding such proofs.  (Dill v. Berquist Construction Co. (1994)
24 Cal.App.4th 1426, 1441–42.)
 
Although
the filing of a proof of service by a registered process server creates a
rebuttable presumption that service was proper (Evid. Code § 647), that
presumption may be impeached by contrary evidence submitted by a defendant.
(See, e.g., Fernandes v. Singh (2017) 16 Cal.App.5th 932, 941, fn.
6.)   
  
If
service of summons is not properly and validly effectuated by one or more of
the approved methods, California courts lack personal jurisdiction over the
defendants, and any judicial actions taken without such service violates
principles of fundamental due process and is therefore void. (County. of San
Diego v. Gorham (2010) 186 Cal.App.4th 1215, 1231-1232, 1234.) 
 

DISCUSSION

 
Defendant argues
service was deficient because Plaintiff served Defendant’s California
registered agent for service of process using Defendant’s Wyoming name. (Motion
at p. 3.) 
 
Defendant is
registered in Wyoming as “The Testing Company LLC.” (Id.)  Defendant states that “[b]ecause there is a
California limited liability company by the name of “The Testing Company LLC .
. . Defendant registered in California under the name, ‘The Testing Co LLC.’” (Id.)
BusinessRocket, Inc. is Defendant’s registered agent for service of process in
California. (Id.) Defendant’s registered agent for service of process in
Wyoming is Registered Agents Inc. (Id.) 
 Plaintiff’s Proof of Service
states that the party served was “THE TESTING COMPANY, LLC a Wyoming limited
liability company” and the person served was “Isiah Z., Authorized to Accept
for Businessrocket, Inc. Agent for Service of Process.” (Ex. A.) 
 
In Sakaguchi v.
Sakaguchi (2009) 173 Cal.App.3d 717, 720, a defendant argued service was
invalid because the summons and complaint misspelled his first name as “Takechi”
instead of the correct spelling, “Takeshi.” The Court of Appeals found that the
defendant “identifi[ed] no evidence that the misspelling rendered him unaware
that he was the person named as defendant” and “the slight error in the
spelling of [defendant’s] name d[id] not entitle him to have the judgment set
aside.” (Id. at pp. 720-721.) 
 
Similarly, in Billings
v. Edwards, 91 Cal.App.3d 826, 830-831, the returns showed service on “John
Edwards Pest Control and “Bryant Exterminators” rather than the correct names,
“Edwards and Son Pest Control” and “Bryant Exterminating Co.” The defendants
argued the misspellings rendered service invalid. (Id. at p. 831.) The
Court found the defendants’ argument meritless because “[i]t was admitted that
copies of the summons and complaint were actually received by the officers of
the corporations involved, [t]he returns used the same names as those set forth
in the summons and complaint; [and] the minor variances in nomenclature misled
no one.” (Id.) 
 
Defendant argues that
the defect here was not minor because it was unable to register in California
as “The Testing Company LLC” because there was already an existing California
limited liability company operating under that name.  (Reply at p. 6.) The Court granted
Defendant’s request for judicial notice of Defendant’s California Application
to Register a Foreign Limited Liability Company. (Ex. RJN 2.) That application
shows Defendant’s LLC name as “The Testing Company LLC” and lists its
California alternate name as “The Testing Co LLC.” (Id.) Accordingly, it
is undisputed that the Testing Company LLC (registered in Wyoming) and the
Testing Co. LLC (registered in California) are the same entity. Moreover, the Sakaguchi
and Billings cases discussed above show that California courts do
not find service is invalid when there is a minor misspelling that did not
result in the party being misled or unaware that they are named as defendant.  The Court acknowledges that this case is
different than Billings, where the officers admitted they received the
summons and complaint.  But, like Sakaguchi
and Billings, substituting “Company” for “Co” is a minor variance
and there is no evidence it rendered Defendant unaware that it was named as
Defendant.  
 
Based
on the foregoing, Defendant’s motion to quash is denied.                  
 
Defendant is ordered to file a responsive pleading to the FAC within 30
days of the Court’s Order. 
 
 
Dated:  September 25, 2024                                                               _______­­­­­­­­­­___________________________                                                                                                                  Hon. Eric Harmon
                                                                                                            Judge of the Superior Court