 Case Number:  23STCV15069    Hearing Date:   February 20, 2024    Dept:  53 Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles – Central District
Department
53
 
 




kendrick jones

   ;
 


   Plaintiff,
 
 
vs.
 
 
watts learning center, inc.

   , et al.;
 


   Defendants.


Case
  No.:


23STCV15069




 


 




Hearing
  Date:


February
   20, 2024




 


 




Time:





   10:00 a.m.




 


 




 
[Tentative]
  Order RE:
 
(1)  
  defendant’s
  demurrer to complaint
(2)  
  defendant’s
  motion to strike portions of complaint
 



 
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendants Watts Learning
Center, Inc.        
 
RESPONDING PARTY:       Unopposed
(1)  
Demurrer
to Complaint
(2)  
Motion
to Strike Portions of Complaint
The court considered the moving and reply papers filed in connection
with the demurrer and motion to strike.
The court did not consider the filing entitled “Plaintiff’s Opposition
to Demurrer,” filed with the court on January 2, 2024, because (1) it does not
attach a proof of service stating that the opposition papers were served on
defendant Watts Learning Center, Inc. as required, and           (2) counsel for Watts Learning
Center, Inc. has stated that she was not served with the opposition papers.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b)
[“All papers opposing a motion so noticed shall be filed with the court and a
copy served on each party at least nine court days” before the hearing];
Frontman Decl., ¶ 5.)  
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff Kendrick Jones (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on June 28,
2023 against defendant Watts Learning Center, Inc. (“Defendant”), alleging nine
causes of action for (1) discrimination in violation of the Fair Employment and
Housing Act (“FEHA”); (2) failure to prevent discrimination in violation of
FEHA; (3) retaliation in violation of FEHA; (4) harassment in violation of
FEHA; (5) failure to prevent harassment in violation of FEHA; (6) retaliation
in violation of Labor Code section 98.6; (7) retaliation in violation of Labor
Code section 1102.5; (8) retaliation in violation of Labor Code sections 6310
and 6311; and (9) retaliation in violation of Labor Code sections 6310 and
6311.
Defendant now moves the court for an order (1) sustaining its demurrer
to each cause of action alleged by Plaintiff, and (2) striking from the
Complaint the requests for attorney’s fees, punitive damages, pre-judgment
interest, and restitution.   
DEMURRER
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the first cause of action
for discrimination in violation of FEHA because it does not state facts
sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has not alleged
facts showing that (1) Plaintiff was subjected to adverse employment actions
under circumstances suggesting a discriminatory motive, or (2) Defendant had a
facially neutral practice or policy that had a disproportionate adverse effect
on members of the protected classes. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Diego v. City of Los
Angeles (2017) 15 Cal.App.5th 338, 350 [elements of prima facie case for
discrimination]; Rosenfeld v. Abraham Joshua Heschel Day School, Inc. (2014)
226 Cal.App.4th 886, 893 [describing claims for disparate impact].) 
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the second cause of action
for failure to prevent discrimination in violation of FEHA because it does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has not
alleged, for the reasons set forth in connection with the ruling on the first
cause of action, facts establishing that Defendant discriminated against
Plaintiff.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.10, subd. (e); Dickson v. Burke Williams, Inc. (2015) 234
Cal.App.4th 1307, 1318 [finding that there could be no claim for failure to
take reasonable steps to prevent sex discrimination since no sex discrimination
had been found].) 
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the third cause of action
for retaliation in violation of FEHA because it does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has not alleged facts
establishing that (1) Plaintiff engaged in protected activities, and (2)
Defendant subjected Plaintiff to an adverse action because he engaged in those
protected activities.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.10, subd. (e); Meeks v. Autozone, Inc. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 855,
878-879 [elements of cause of action for retaliation].)  
            The court sustains Defendant’s
demurrer to the fourth cause of action for harassment in violation of FEHA
because it does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action
since Plaintiff has not alleged adequate facts showing that Defendant subjected
Plaintiff to harassment that was sufficiently severe or pervasive to alter the
conditions of Plaintiff’s employment and created an abusive working
environment.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.10, subd. (e); Serri v. Santa Clara University (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 830, 869 [describing actionable harassment under FEHA].) 
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the fifth cause of action
for failure to prevent harassment in violation of FEHA because it does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has not
alleged, for the reasons set forth in connection with the ruling on the fourth
cause of action, facts showing that Defendant subjected Plaintiff to
harassment.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.10, subd. (e); Dickson, supra, 234 Cal.App.4th at p.
1318.)
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the sixth cause of action
for retaliation in violation of Labor Code section 98.6 because it does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has not
alleged facts showing that he “filed a bona fide complaint or claim or
instituted or caused to be instituted any proceeding under or relating to . . .
rights that are under the jurisdiction of the Labor Commissioner, made a
written or oral complaint that [he] [was] owed unpaid wages, or . . . initiated
any action or notice pursuant to section 2699, or . . . testified or [was]
about to testify in a proceeding pursuant to that section, or . . . exercise[d]
. . . any rights afforded” to him.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Lab. Code, § 98.6, subd. (a) [making
unlawful the discharge or retaliation against an employee for engaging in that
conduct].) 
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the seventh cause of action
for retaliation in violation of Labor Code section 1102.5 because it does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has not
alleged facts showing that he engaged in activities protected by section 1102.5,
i.e., that he disclosed information that he had reasonable cause to believe
disclosed a violation of law.  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Lab. Code, § 1102.5, subd. (b); St.
Myers v. Dignity Health (2019) 44 Cal.App.5th 301, 307 [“Labor Code section
1102.5, subdivision (b) prohibits retaliation for disclosing information about
a violation or noncompliance with federal, state, or local statute, rule, or
regulation”].) 
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the eighth cause of action
for retaliation in violation of Labor Code section 6310 because it does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has not
alleged facts establishing that he (1) made an oral or written complaint regarding
employee safety or health, (2) instituted or caused to be instituted any
proceeding relating to his rights, (3) participated in an occupational health
and safety committee established by section 6401.7, or (4) reported a
work-related fatality, injury, or illness. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e); Lab. Code, § 6310, subd. (a).)  
The court sustains Defendant’s demurrer to the ninth cause of action
for retaliation in violation of Labor Code section 6310 because it does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action since Plaintiff has not
alleged facts establishing that he engaged in activity protected by this
statute, as set forth in connection with the court’s ruling on the eighth cause
of action.  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 430.10, subd. (e); Lab. Code, § 6310, subd. (a).) 
MOTION TO STRIKE
Defendant moves the court for an order striking the following from
Plaintiff’s Complaint: (1) the prayer for punitive damages and related
allegations; (2) the prayer for attorney’s fees;    (3) the prayer for interest; and (4) the
prayer for restitution. 
The court denies Defendant’s motion to strike as moot because the
court has sustained the demurrer to all of the causes of action alleged in
Plaintiff’s Complaint, and therefore those causes of action and the requests
for relief have been removed from the Complaint. 
ORDER

The court sustains defendant Watts Learning Center, Inc.’s demurrer to
plaintiff Kendrick Jones’s Complaint. 
The court denies as moot defendant Watts Learning Center, Inc.’s
motion to strike. 
The court grants plaintiff Kendrick Jones 20 days leave to file a
First Amended Complaint that cures the defects described above. 
The court orders defendant Watts Learning Center, Inc. to give notice
of this ruling.
IT IS SO ORDERED.
 
DATED:  February 20, 2024
 
_____________________________
Robert
B. Broadbelt III
Judge
of the Superior Court