  Case Number:  21STCV42748    Hearing Date:   November 1, 2023    Dept:  57 This case arises from a dispute between lawyers
and their respective law firms over a co-counseling agreement with a
client.  The Plaintiffs are Horton Law
Firm, APC and Laura L. Horton (collectively, “Horton”).  The Defendants are Helen Kim Law, APC (“HKL”)
and Helen U. Kim (“Kim) (collectively, “the Defendants”).   The complaint alleges that the co-counseling
agreement is based on the parties’ joint representation of Sonia Gonzalez in  Gonzalez v. Whittier College (“the Gonzalez
Case”).  According to Horton, the co-counseling
agreement called for the parties to split 50/50 the work on the case, the
attorney’s fees collected, and the costs incurred.  Judgment was entered against the parties’
client Sonia Gonzalez in the Gonzalez Case.  
 Horton alleges that, thereafter,
the Defendants breached the agreement by refusing to pay their 50% share of the
costs incurred in the Gonzalez Case.  Horton’s
complaint asserts causes of action for, inter alia, breach of contract and
fraudulent promise.
The parties have been embroiled in discovery
disputes.  One of those disputes is
pending before the Court today in the form of Horton’s motion to compel Kim to
provide further responses to Horton’s Request for Production of Documents Set
Two, Nos. 1-10  Horton also requests in
the motion that the Court impose monetary sanctions against Kim and HKL and/or
their counsel of record Kim Legal APC in the amount of $3,095, which Horton
says reflects the attorney’s incurred in connection with this discovery
motion.   Having considered the parties’
positions, the Court is granting the motion. 

Horton’s motion is grounded in Horton’s assertion
in the complaint that Kim is the alter ego of HKL.  According to Horton’s reply, only three of
the original ten document requests remain at issue because Kim served verified
supplemental responses to the other requests after Horton filed the motion.  The three outstanding requests are Nos. 7, 8,
and 9.  No. 7 seeks documents evidencing
that HKL was adequately capitalized from 2019 to the present. No. 8 seeks
documents evidencing commingling of funds between HKL and Kim from 2019 to the
present. And No. 9 seeks documents evidencing that HKL and Kim used assets of
each other in that time period.  To each of
those requests, Kim objected on the ground that the requests seek documents
protected by the financial privilege and/or tax return privilege and privacy
rights, including privacy rights of third parties.  Kim also objected on the grounds that Horton
failed to show compelling need for this discovery, and that the requests are  vague, ambiguous, overly broad, and harassing.
(Rager Decl., ¶ 4, Ex. C.)  
In the Court’s view, Horton has demonstrated that
there is good cause for the alter ego discovery reflected in Request Nos. 7, 8,
and 9.  That is because the information
that Horton already has adduced in discovery reveals that neither HKL nor Kim
was insured at the time of the alleged breach of contract and fraud, HKL has no
bylaws, no officers or directors other than Kim as the sole
CEO/President/Secretary, and that Kim is the sole owner and shareholder of HKL.
(Supp. Rager Decl., ¶¶ 2-3, Exs. A and B.) 
 All of that information is part
and parcel of alter ego liability.  Requests
Nos. 7, 8, and 9, simply seek further information bearing on Horton’s alter ego
theory. 
 Because the
Court has determined that good cause for the discovery exists, the burden shifts
to Kim to justify her objections. She has failed to do so.  Any privacy interests give way to Horton’s
need for the discovery.  And the requests
are not not vague, ambiguous, overly broad, or harassing.  They are fair game.  The Court further has determined that Kim’s
objections lack substantial justification. 
Therefore, the Court is sanctioning Kim in the amount that Horton seeks
in the motion.