  Case Number:  22PSCV00888    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)   Defendant
Avalon Management Group, Inc. Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the
alternative, Motion for Summary Adjudication on Plaintiffs’ First Amended
Complaint is DENIED without prejudice, notably as Avalon does not
address all theories of liability (e.g., its failure to conduct repairs after
9/1/2020).  
 
(2)  
Motion For Summary Adjudication By Defendant
Avalon Management Group, Inc. As Against Diamond Bar Village Association On
Avalon’s Cross-Complaint is DENIED without prejudice, notably as
Avalon fails to address the indemnification provision in the Addendum. 
 
Background[1]
 
This case
pertains to the evacuation of over 150 residents at the condominium units
located at Diamond Bar Village (“DBV”). Plaintiffs, the owners of condominium
units, allege the following against Defendants THE AVALON MANAGEMENT GROUP,
INC. (“Avalon”), a California corporation; DIAMOND BAR VILLAGE ASSOCIATION
(“HOA” or “DBV”), a California nonprofit corporation; LARRY CARMACK, an
individual; JAMES HOPKINS, an individual; KHATRI INTERNATIONAL, INC., a Nevada
corporation and DIPLIP MULCHAND KHATRI, an individual (collectively, “Khatri
Defendants” or “Khatri”); RKA CONSULTING GROUP, a California corporation
(“RKA”); CITY OF DIAMOND BAR, a governmental entity (occasionally referred to
as the “City”): On September 27, 2021, Defendants Avalon and the HOA sent an
e-mail to all the residents and owners of DBV, including Plaintiffs, advising
them for the first time that all the residents may need to evacuate the Subject
Property due to “impending risk to the health and safety of residents from the
roof rafter conditions.” (First Amended Complaint (FAC) ¶75.) The City’s Notice and
Order to Vacate DBV (“Vacate Order”) referenced a 2017 report that found
similar problems with Termite, Dry Rot, and structural damage. However,
Plaintiffs were not informed about the 2017 report; therefore, the first time
Plaintiffs learned of any possible massive evacuation was in 2021. That said,
the Vacate Order was rescinded because on October 25, 2021, Plaintiffs’ own
structural engineer determined that there was no imminent threat of collapse to
the buildings at DBV. Although the Vacate Order had been rescinded by the City,
Plaintiffs still suffered damages because they “had to pay their tenants
relocation fees and lost rent for months . . . and had to live through the
chaos, discomfort, trash being dumped everywhere, the swimming pool being green
and full of mosquitos, the lack of maintenance to the Subject Property, the
news reporters being at the Subject Property, and the threat of fines and
penalties being levied by the City and being arrested by the police for failure
to vacate by October 18, 2021.” (FAC ¶100.) 
 
On August 18, 2022, Plaintiffs filed suit.
 
On June 26, 2023, Avalon filed a cross-complaint against all
Defendants for: 1.     Express Indemnity 2.     Comparative Indemnity 3.     Contribution 4.     Equitable Indemnity 5.     Declaratory Relief
 
On October 17, 2023, Avalon filed the instant MSJ/MSA against
Plaintiffs.
 
On October 27, 2023, Avalon filed the instant MSA against DBVA on
Avalon’s Cross-Complaint. 
 
On November 7, 2023, the court, after taking Khatri’s GFS motion
under submission, issued its final ruling, reversing the tentative ruling to
deny and granting Khatri’s GFS motion.
 
On January 17, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their opposition to Avalon’s
MSJ/MSA as to Plaintiffs’ complaint. 
 
On January 22, 2024, the court denied RKA’s motion for
reconsideration and denied Plaintiffs’ motion for sanctions. (At this point,
two GFS motions have been granted the City of Diamond Bar and Khatri
Defendants.) 
 
On January
25, 2024, Plaintiffs filed their Opposition To Defendant Avalon
Management Group, Inc.’s Motion For Summary Adjudication As Against Diamond Bar
Village Association On Avalon’s Cross-complaint. That same day, Avalon filed
its reply as to its MSJ/MSA. That same day, DBVA filed its Oppositions to
Avalon’s MSA as to Avalon’s Cross-Complaint. 
 
On February 2, 2024, Avalon filed various replies. 
 
Legal Standard[2]
 
The law of summary judgment provides courts “a mechanism
to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite
their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” 
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826,
843 (Aguilar).)  In reviewing a motion for summary judgment,
courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the
pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s
claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence
of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley
v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289,
294.) “The motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers
submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that
the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.”  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).)   
 
A moving
defendant bears the initial burden of production to show that one or more
elements of the cause of action cannot be established or that there is a
complete defense to the cause of action, at which point the burden shifts to
the plaintiff to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a
triable issue.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “The motion shall be supported by affidavits,
declarations, admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters
of which judicial notice shall or may be taken. The supporting papers shall
include a separate statement setting forth plainly and concisely all material
facts that the moving party contends are undisputed. Each of the material facts
stated shall be followed by a reference to the supporting evidence. The failure
to comply with this requirement of a separate statement may in the court’s discretion
constitute a sufficient ground for denying the motion.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (b)(1).) 
 
The opposing
party may not rely on the mere allegations or denials of the pleadings, but
instead must set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue exists
as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Aguilar, supra,
at p. 849.) Specifically, “[t]he
opposition, where appropriate, shall consist of affidavits, declarations,
admissions, answers to interrogatories, depositions, and matters of which
judicial notice shall or may be taken.” (Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (2).) 
 

Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the
party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in
favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389; see also Hinesley, supra, 135
Cal.App.4th at p. 294 [The court must “view the evidence in the light most
favorable to the opposing party and accept all inferences reasonably drawn
therefrom.”].)  In determining whether
the papers show that there is a triable issue as to any material fact, the
court shall consider all of the evidence set forth in the moving papers, except
that as to which objections have been made and sustained, and all inferences
reasonable deducible from such evidence. (Hayman v. Block (1986)
176 Cal.App.3d 629, 639.)

 
Discussion Re: Avalon’s MSJ/MSA as to Plaintiffs’ FAC
 
There are two COAs alleged against Avalon: 1st
COA for Negligence and 5th COA for Accounting. Moving Defendant
Avalon seeks summary judgment/adjudication on the grounds that, inter alia, (i)
the events leading up to the City’s Vacate Order pre-dated Avalon, (ii) Avalon
owed no duty to Plaintiffs as to the City’s Vacate Order, (iii) Avalon did not
breach any duty, (iv) Avalon did not cause damages, and that (v) Plaintiffs
lack standing to prosecute an accounting COA. 
 
As the pleadings frame the issues on a summary judgment,[3]
the court first turns to the allegations in the FAC as to the negligence COA. 
 
1st COA for Negligence
 
Plaintiffs are informed and believe
and thereon allege that on or about September 1, 2020, AVALON acquired the
assets, staff, accounts, and liabilities of S & L,[4]
including the management of DBV . . . [D]efendants . . . negligently managed,
controlled, and/or failed to performed services relating to DBV, including, but
not limited to, the following actions: 
(a) Total failure to perform any deferred maintenance
repairs to the Subject Property as addressed in the 2017 KHATRI REPORT for over
4 years; 
(b) Total failure to seal the walls
that were left open by MARCUS ALLEN or other contractors, causing these walls
to mold over time; 
(c) Total failure to disclose the
2017 KHATRI REPORT to the owners, sellers, and buyers of condominium units at
DBV, including Plaintiffs; 
(d) Total and gross negligence by
advising the HOA to not disclose the 2017 KHATRI REPORT and 2021 KHATRI REPORT
to the owners or sellers of DBV; 
(e) Total failure to conduct a
background check on MR. KHATRI to determine any and all previous licensing
issues with his civil and structural engineering licenses; and 
(f) Total failure to obtain a
second opinion from another licensed structural engineer after receiving the
2021 KHATRI REPORT before handing the report over to the CITY OF DIAMOND BAR,
which resulted in DBV being improperly red and yellow tagged forcing a massive
evacuation of the Subject Property by most of the residents at DBV. The
actions taken by the defendants were unreasonable in that they caused the CITY
OF DIAMOND BAR to improperly red and yellow tag all the condominium units at
DBV, which resulted in a massive evacuation of most of the residents of
DBV, depriving Plaintiffs of the normal use and quiet enjoyment of their units,
loss of rental income, out of pocket expenses, relocation fees paid to the
tenants, and severe emotional distress. (FAC pp. 26-27, emphasis added.)
 
Effectively, according to Avalon, the crux of the allegation
is that the “Vacate Order would not have been issued if only Avalon, after
September 1, 2020, had produced the 2017 Report to Plaintiffs.” (Reply p.
7:12-15; see also Reply p. 7:7-8 [“[M]ore simply stated, Avalon is not liable
ex post facto for any breaches prior to September 1, 2020.”].)
But
that isn’t the entirety of the claim asserted against Avalon, and the
failure to address all theories of liability means that the motion must
fail. 
 
The allegations are broken into two parts: (1) actions that
Avalon is liable for prior to it taking over management on September 1,
2020 (e.g., failure to disclose the 2017 Khatri report) and (2) actions taken after
Avalon took over management. 
 
A party moving for summary judgment/adjudication (here,
Avalon) has the burden to show that it was entitled to judgment with respect to
all theories of liability in the cause of action. (Lopez v. Superior Court (1996)
45 Cal.App.4th 705, 717). The failure to negate all theories and claims is
fatal to an MSJ. “Where the complaint sets forth multiple claims, a defendant
moving for summary judgment “must present facts to negate each claim as framed
by the complaint or to establish a defense.” (Wattenbarger v. Cincinnati
Reds, Inc. (1994) 28 Cal App 4th 746, 750; see also, Conn v. National
Can Corp. (1981) 124 Cal.App.3d 630, 639) Where defendant fails to
satisfy this initial burden, “plaintiff [has] no burden to offer responsive
evidence.” (Hand v Farmers Exchange (1994) 23 Cal App 4th 1847,
1853-1854)
 
Here, however, the motion (and opposition) largely, if not only,
focus on the latter.[5] Avalon has presented no evidence
that it performed required maintenance repairs. In fact, it appears that
Avalon somewhat concedes this point by arguing that “when Avalon became
managing agent of the Association, the Association ha[d] only $2,225 in its
reserve account” because the owners refused to pay an increase on HOA
assessments (Separate Statement No. 15, citing Jones Decl. ¶ 16), suggesting Avalon
financially could not perform the maintenance repairs.[6]
What is more, Avalon acknowledges that there was a  “well-documented history of problems with the
complex” (Motion p. 6:2-3), suggesting that when Avalon took over, there were
problems but problems that Avalon did not remediate. Thus, even
assuming Avalon did not bear liability for S&L’s negligence (See Asset
Purchase and Sale Agreement), it would be liable for its own liability
which accrued from and after September 1, 2020. 
 
To the extent that Avalon argues “there is not a scintilla
of evidence linking Avalon to the City’s Vacate Order,” that is a disputed
material fact. (Motion p. 12.) The Vacate Order was not only issued based upon
the 2017 report, but also the 2021 report. (See Chiang Decl., ¶¶ 22,
36.) And as alleged, “[a]fter Avalon took over management of DBV and knowing
about this 2017 KHATRI REPORT, Avalon continued to do nothing.”
(Opp. p. 16:27-28, emphasis and underline added). Had Avalon done certain
maintenance repairs that it was aware of (e.g., repaired the holes on the
walls), perhaps Khatri and RKA would not have made the conclusions they did
(i.e., units look fine/no need to evacuate). 
 
Therefore, as Avalon has not adequately addressed the one-year
period after it took over, the MSJ as to the 1st COA for negligence is
DENIED without prejudice. 
 
2. 5th COA for Accounting 
 
Plaintiffs allege the following against Avalon:
 
[Avalon] ha[s] failed and neglected to
keep proper books and records and has failed and refused to account to
Plaintiffs in any manner whatsoever with regard to the conduct of the business
with regard to the management of DBV, despite demand for such an accounting. For
example, missing accounting records, include, but are not limited to, missing
contracts with vendors, missing contracts with construction companies for work
allegedly performed, missing receipts showing how much money was spent and paid
to vendors, missing accounting for the monies received from the laundry
machines, and missing accounting for payments to Marcus Allen. (FAC ¶187.)
 
Avalon moves for summary adjudication as to this COA because
Plaintiffs have no standing to allege an accounting cause of action in
the first place because the HOA is an indispensable party to any accounting
action. More specifically, Avalon argues that “the only mechanism to sue a
managing agent of the Association for an accounting requires a derivative
action under Corporations Code § 800.” (Motion pp. 13-14, see also Reply pp.
4-5.) 
 
In support of its argument that the wrong would be against
the Association, not against plaintiffs individually, Avalon
cites to Oakland Raiders v. National Football league (2005) 131
Cal.App.4th 621, 650-651; Bader v. Anderson (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 775,
793; Bader v. Anderson (2009) 179 Cal.App.4th 775, 793; Grosset v.
Wenaas (2008) 241 Cal.App.4th 1100, 1108; and Shuster v. Gardner
(2005) 127 Cal.App.4th 305, 312.) However, as noted by Plaintiffs in
opposition, these cases are inapposite because those cases involve a shareholder’s
derivative lawsuit. None
of the authority cited instructs that the owners of a condominium
complex need to file a derivative lawsuit against the management company for
accounting based on missing records. For the similar reason(s),
Avalon’s citation to Corporations Code section 800 is inapposite because the
statute applies when shareholders seek to pursue a derivative suit,
which is not the case here as Plaintiffs are not suing on behalf of DBVA.[7] 
 
Therefore, as Avalon has presented no authority that a
derivative action is the only action that members of a condominium complex can
pursue, the MSA as to the 5th COA for accounting is denied. 
 
Discussion Re: Avalon’s MSA as to Avalon’s
Cross-Complaint[8]

 
Avalon filed a cross-complaint against the HOA, which
includes a cause of action for express indemnity. According to Avalon, the duty
to defend Avalon arises from language in the managing agent agreements between
Avalon and the HOA. Avalon cites to the Management Agreement made and entered
into by and between the HOA and S&L. (Motion pp. 5-6, see Avalon’s
Evidence, Ex. 2 [Management Agreement between Diamond Bar Village Association
and S&L Association Management, Inc., dated November 17, 2016]
(“Agreement”), starting at p. 6 of 68 of PDF.) 
 
The hold harmless provisions are set forth in Section 2 of
Article VI. (Avalon’s Evidence, p. 13 of 68 of PDF.) 
 
Section 2.1 To the fullest extent
permitted by applicable law, Association shall and does hereby agree to
indemnify, protect, hold harmless and defend [S&L], its officers,
directors, and employees, hereinafter referred to as ‘Indemnitees’ from
and against all claims, demands, damages, injuries, losses, liens, causes of
action, suits, judgments, penalties, liabilities, debts, costs and
expenses, including court costs and attorneys' fees (collectively,
‘Liabilities’), of any nature, kind or description, whether
arising out of contract, tort, strict liability, misrepresentation, violation
of applicable law and/or any cause whatsoever (including without limitation,
claims for injuries to or death of any person, or damages to or loss of any
property) of any person or entity directly or indirectly arising out of, caused
by, in connection with or resulting from any act or omission of Association,
any of their respective employees, agents, servants, officers, directors,
members or anyone that either Association controls or exercises control over.
The obligations of the Association under this section shall apply to
liabilities even if such liabilities are caused in whole or in part by the
sole, joint, or concurrent negligence, fault or strict liability of any indemnitee,
whether predating this agreement or not, and whether or not such sole or
concurrent negligence, fault or strict liability was active or passive.
(emphasis added.) 
 
But the motion doesn’t adequately address the Addendum
between the HOA and Avalon. (See Avalon’s Evidence, Ex. 4 [Addendum to
Management Agreement between Avalon Management Group, Inc. and Diamond Bar
Village Association, dated September 1, 2020] (“Addendum”), starting at p. 49
of 68 of PDF.)) 
 
Section 9.7 of the Addendum entitled ‘Indemnification’
provides as follows:
 
The Association hereby agrees, except
as to Avalon's willful misconduct, or gross negligence, to defend,
indemnify and hold harmless Avalon in its entirety from and against any and all
claims for damages, losses, liabilities and expenses (including without
limitation, attorney fees and costs) arising directly or indirectly out of, or
incurred in connection with the management or operation herewith, or connected
with this Agreement and Avalon's services hereunder, and from liability for
injuries suffered by any persons in connection hereof. Avalon shall not be
liable for any errors in judgment or for any mistakes of fact of law, or for
anything which Avalon may do or refrain from doing, hereunder except in cases
of willful misconduct, or gross negligence; nor shall Avalon shall not be held
liable for failure to pay any charges against the Property if necessary funds
are not made available to Avalon by the Association. Association agrees to
indemnify, defend, and hold harmless Avalon arising directly or indirectly from
the preparation and recording of liens or collection related work. The
provisions of this section 9.7 (Indemnification) shall survive the termination
of this Agreement. (emphasis added.) 
 
Accordingly, the two have contradictory language. On
one hand, the Agreement calls for indemnification regardless of the kind
of negligence whereas the Addendum expressly excludes gross negligence. The motion fails to adequately
address the ambiguity. (See also Plaintiffs’ Opp. to Avalon’s MSA v.
DBVA Cross Complaint p. 1:26-28 [“[T]he indemnity provisions have a carveout
for willful misconduct or gross negligence, which Avalon totally failed to
address. This carveout language was embraced many times in the various
indemnity provisions, which Avalon again conveniently chose not to identify or
address in its MSA.”]; see also HOA Opp. p. 2:17-16 [“The purported management
agreements are creating an ambiguity with respect to the purported
indemnification and defense duties (if any).”].) 
 
While interpretation of a contract can be a matter of law
for the court (Parsons v. Bristol Development Co. (1965) 62Cal.2d 861,
865) and one for the jury if ascertaining the intent of the parties at the time
the contract was executed depends on the credibility of extrinsic evidence (City
of Hope National Medical Center v. Genentech, Inc. (2008) 43 Cal.4th 375,
395), Avalon has failed to address the threshold issue of contract
interpretation.[9] 
 
As with its MSJ as to Plaintiffs’ complaint, Avalon appears
to ignore certain facts and evidence before it, leading to improper or
premature arguments. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, both of Avalon’s MSJs/MSA are denied
without prejudice. 
 
 
 


