 Case Number:  23SMCV04769    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  O   Case
Name:  Marianna Zimmerman et al. v. Paddock
Group LLC, et al. 



Case No.:


23SMCV05832


Complaint Filed:


12-13-24         




Hearing Date:


7-11-24 


Discovery C/O:


8-18-25




Calendar No.:


13


Discovery Motion C/O:


9-2-25




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


9-15-25



SUBJECT:                 DEMURRER TO FACC WITH MOTION TO
STRIKE
MOVING
PARTY:   Cross-Defendants CBM1 and
Jason Ehrenpreis
RESP.
PARTY:         Cross-Claimants Marianna
Zimmerman and Quantum Rejuvenation, LLC
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Cross-Defendants
CBM1 and Jason Ehrenpreis Demurrer is OVERRULED as to all causes action in Cross-Claimants’
Marianna Zimmerman and Quantum Rejeuvenation’s First Amended Cross-Complaint. 
 
            Cross-Defendants’
Motion to Strike Plaintiffs’ prayer for punitive damages is DENIED. Cross-Complainants
have pled the elements of constructive fraud warranting a request for punitive
damages pursuant to Civ. Code § 3294. 
 
            Cross-Defendants
CBM1 and Jason Ehrenpreis RJN is DENIED. Even if the Court were to take
judicial notice to the settlement agreements, the truth of the statements
within the document or their interpretation could not be judicially noticed
because they are under reasonable dispute pursuant to the FACC. (See Fremont
Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97,
113 [“The hearing on demurrer may not be turned into a contested evidentiary
hearing through the guise of having the court take judicial notice of documents
whose truthfulness or proper interpretation are disputable.”]


 
 
I.               
Demurrer
 
A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether
the complaint states a cause of action. (See Hahn v. Mirda (2007)
147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the
allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects
must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (See
Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) A
demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic
matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the
pleading or are judicially noticed. (See Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.)
At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient
to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim against him. (See Semole
v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not,
however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in
the pleading, or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible
in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732
[internal citations omitted].) 
 
A demurrer based on uncertainty only
applies where the complaint is so bad that a defendant cannot reasonably respond—i.e.,
cannot reasonably determine what issues must be admitted or denied, or what
counts or claims are directed against him or her.  (See Khoury v.
Maly’s of Calif., Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)  Though
California courts take a liberal view toward in artfully drawn pleadings, it
remains essential a complaint set forth the actionable facts with sufficient
precision to inform the defendant of what the plaintiff is complaining about
and what remedies are being sought.  (See Signal Hill Aviation Co. v.
Stroppe (1979) 96 Cal.App.3d 627, 636.)
 
"Demurrers
for uncertainty are disfavored, and are granted only if the pleading is so
incomprehensible that a defendant cannot reasonably respond . . . . We strictly
construe such demurrers because ambiguities can reasonably be clarified under
modern rules of discovery." (Lickiss v. Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority (2012) 208 Cal.App.4th 1125, 1135. ["demurrers for
uncertainty are disfavored"].)
 
 
I.               
Demurrer to entire complaint pursuant to the Settlement
Agreement - OVERRULED
 
 
            “The
hearing on demurrer may not be turned into a contested evidentiary hearing
through the guise of having the court take judicial notice of documents whose
truthfulness or proper interpretation are disputable.” (Fremont Indemnity
Co., supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at p. 114.)
 
            Cross-Defendants
CBM1 and Jason Ehrenpreis (collectively “Cross-Defendants”) argue the entire FACC
is subject to a demurrer due to an alleged settlement agreement releasing the
Defendants from all claims made by Cross-Complainants Marianna Zimmerman and
Quantum Rejuvenation, LLC, (collectively the “Cross-Complainants”) arising out
of the lease at issue. (See Demurrer, pp. 4–5.) Cross-Defendants request
judicial notice of the settlement agreements, however, the Court cannot take
judicial notice of the facts or interpretations within the settlement
agreements when they are reasonably under dispute within the FACC. Furthermore,
“[a] court ruling on a demurrer . . . cannot take judicial notice of the proper
interpretation of a document submitted in support of the demurrer.” (Fremont
Indemnity Co., supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at p. 115.) Thus, the demurrer
to the complaint based entirely the alleged settlement agreement must be
OVERRULED. 
 
II.            
Demurrer to 3rd cause of action for Constructive
Fraud and Concealment
 
Constructive fraud consists:
1. In any breach of duty which, without
an actually fraudulent intent, gains an advantage to the person in fault, or
any one claiming under him, by misleading another to his prejudice, or to the
prejudice of any one claiming under him; or,
2. In any such act or omission as the
law specially declares to be fraudulent, without respect to actual fraud.
 
            (Civ. Code,
§ 1573.)
 
            The
elements of a Constructive fraud cause of action are (1) the defendant and
plaintiff were in a fiduciary relationship; (2) the defendant acted on
Plaintiff’s behalf to perform a transaction including but not limited to purchasing
a residential property; (3) defendants new or should have known the information
at issue; (4) Defendants misled Plaintiff by failing to disclose this
information or providing Plaintiff with inaccurate or incomplete information;
(4) Plaintiff was harmed; and (5) Defendant’s conduct was a substantial factor
in causing Plaintiff’s harm. (See CACI, 4100.)
 
            “[C]onstructive
fraud comprises any act, omission or concealment involving a breach of legal or
equitable duty, trust or confidence which results in damage to another even
though the conduct is not otherwise fraudulent. Most acts by an agent in breach
of his fiduciary duties constitute constructive fraud. Also, a careless
misstatement may constitute constructive fraud even though there is no
fraudulent intent.” (Assilzadeh v. California Federal Bank (2000) 82
Cal.App.4th 399, 415.) 
 
 
“A fiduciary must tell its principal of all information
it possesses that is material to the principal’s interests. A fiduciary’s
failure to share material information with the principal is constructive fraud,
a term of art obviating actual fraudulent intent.” (Michel v. Moore &
Associates, Inc. (2007) 156 Cal.App.4th
756, 762 [67 Cal.Rptr.3d 797] “The failure of the fiduciary to disclose a
material fact to his principal which might affect the fiduciary’s motives or
the principal’s decision, which is known (or should be known) to the fiduciary,
may constitute constructive fraud. Also, a careless misstatement may constitute
constructive fraud even though there is no fraudulent intent.” (Assilzadeh,
supra, (2000) 82 Cal.App.4th 399, 415 [“Constructive fraud is a unique species of fraud
applicable only to a fiduciary or confidential relationship”.]
 
Cross-Defendants argue the
Cross-Complainants do not plead the intent or knowledge elements of a
fraudulent concealment claim with requisite specificity within the FACC. However,
constructive fraud is a statutory based fraud pursuant to CC § 1573 and the
intent to deceive element, normally included in any fraud cause of action, is
not required. (See Civ. Code § 1573; see also CACI, 4111.) Cross-Complainants
plead all the required elements to meet a claim for constructive fraud within
the FACC, including the knowledge element. (See FACC, ¶¶ 34–42.)
Cross-Claimants utilize the term “BROKERS” to identify the specific Cross-Defendants
here, and specifically plead the knowledge element of constructive fraud by
stating:
 
1.    
“Defendant EHRENPREIS, working for Defendant CBM1, Inc.
acted in a dual agency capacity for the Parties in negotiating the LEASE and
this is set forth in the LEASE. In addition, the PLAINTIFFS and DEFENDANTS
entered into a “DISCLOUSRE REGARDING REAL ESTATE AGENCY RELATIONSHIP” that
further indicated and acknowledged that the BROKERS were acting a dual agent
FOR PADDOCK and QUANTUM.” (FACC, ¶ 6.)
2.    
“Defendants BROKERS . . . represented to PLAINTIFFS
that the Property was commercial space and appropriate for use as PLAINTIFF
intended.” (FACC, ¶ 13.)
3.    
“BROKERS had a duty to disclose information in their
possession PLAINTIFFS expressed and intended commercial use of the PROPERTY was
illegal. The disclosure was not made. At all times herein mentioned and
relevant, BROKERS knew or should have known that PLAINTIFFS would not have
agreed to the LEASE had they known the truth about the limitations on the
legally permitted use” (FACC, ¶ 35.)
 
Thus, the demurrer is OVERRULED as
to Cross-Complainants 3rd cause of action for constructive fraud.
 
 
II.            
Motion to Strike
 
“In an action for the breach of an
obligation not arising from contract, where it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud,
or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual damages, may recover
damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing the defendant.” (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd., (a) emphasis added.) “With respect to a corporate
employer, the advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization,
ratification or act of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an
officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation.” (Id., subd.,
(b).) (3) ‘”Fraud’ means an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or
concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the
part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights
or otherwise causing injury.” (Id., subd., (c)(3).)
 
“[E]ven though certain language
pleads ultimate facts or conclusions of law, such language when read in context
with the facts alleged as to defendants' conduct may adequately plead the evil
motive requisite to recovery of punitive damages.” (Monge v. Superior Ct.,
(1986)176 Cal. App. 3d 503, 510.) Furthermore, “[m]alice and oppression may be
inferred from the circumstances of a defendant's conduct.” (Id., at p.
511.)
 
Here, Plaintiffs demonstrate the
requisite elements for constructive fraud, as discussed above. Punitive damages
may be appropriate when there is a breach of obligation, not arising from a
contract, as is the case here since the Cross-Complainants are alleging Cross-Defendants
failed in their duty to disclose a concealed fact. 
 
Thus, Cross-Defendants’ Motion to
Strike is DENIED.