 Case Number:  23SMCV03372    Hearing Date:   July 11, 2024    Dept:  O   Case
Name:  Karissa Delaunay v. K & H
Care, LLC, et al. 



Case No.:


23SMCV03372       


Complaint Filed:


7-25-23           




Hearing Date:


7-11-24 


Discovery C/O:


N/A




Calendar No.:


6


Discovery Motion C/O:


N/A




POS:


OK


 Trial Date:


None Set



SUBJECT:                 MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION
AND STAY PROCEEDING
MOVING
PARTY:   Defendant K & H Care, LLC
and Joes Hernandez
RESP.
PARTY:         No opposition filed 
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            Defendants
K & H Care, LLC and Joes Hernandez’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is
GRANTED. The action is stayed pursuant to CCP §1281.4 pending completion of
arbitration.  Defendant presents an
applicable arbitration agreement, the dispute falls within the scope of the
arbitration provision, and Plaintiff does not submit an opposition. The Court
notes a motion to compel arbitration was granted in the related Case No.
23SMCV00817 (“Delaunay 1”) on 9-28-23.
 
            Defendants’
RJN is GRANTED. 
 
I.               
Defendant establishes the existence of an
applicable arbitration agreement 
 
“On petition of a party to an arbitration
agreement alleging the existence of a written agreement to arbitrate a
controversy and that a party to the agreement refuses to arbitrate that
controversy, the court shall order the petitioner and the respondent to
arbitrate the controversy if it determines that an agreement to arbitrate the
controversy exists, unless it determines that: 
(a) The right to compel arbitration has been waived by the
petitioner; or (b) Grounds exist for rescission of the agreement. (c) A party
to the arbitration agreement is also a party to a pending court action or
special proceeding with a third party, arising out of the same transaction or
series of related transactions and there is a possibility of conflicting
rulings on a common issue of law or fact.”  CCP §1281.2. 
 
“The trial court may resolve
motions to compel arbitration in summary proceedings, in which the trial court
sits as a trier of fact, weighing all the affidavits, declarations, and other
documentary evidence, as well as oral testimony received at the court's
discretion, to reach a final determination.  The party seeking arbitration
bears the burden of proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence, and the party opposing arbitration bears the
burden of proving any defense, such as unconscionability by a preponderance of
the evidence.”  (Mendoza v. Trans Valley Transport (2022) 75
Cal.App.5th 748, 718 [trial court properly decided plaintiff’s challenge to
arbitration agreement despite delegation clause where plaintiff attacked
contract formation and very existence of agreement to arbitrate].)   
 
“Strong public policies favor
enforcement of agreements to arbitrate disputes. A judge must order arbitration
of any dispute that the judge determines is within the parties' arbitration
agreement, unless the right to compel arbitration has been waived or the
agreement is otherwise unenforceable.” ([§ 3.38] Determining Petition to Compel
Arbitration:, Cal. Judges Benchbook Civ. Proc. Before Trial § 3.38.)
 
            Defendant
submits a copy of the employment agreement between Defendant and Plaintiff.
(Macdonald Decl., ¶ 5, Ex. A.) Defendant moves to compel arbitration pursuant
to ¶ 10 on page six of the employment agreement which states:
 
ARBITRATION OF
DISPUTES. Any controversy of claim arising out of or related to this
Agreement, or the breach thereof, except for unlawful detainer actions or any
dispute that arises from Employer’s actions to regain possession of the
premises, or action brought for wages before the California Labor Commissioner
or related to workers compensation, shall be settled in binding arbitration in
accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association, which may be
found at www.adr.org. The Employer will pay the costs for the arbitrator and
hearing room. Any arbitration award rendered must be in writing, setting forth
the reasons for the decision and may be entered as a judgment in any court of
competent jurisdiction. Arbitration decisions/awards issued pursuant to this
Agreement are final and binding. 
 
Notwithstanding the
foregoing, claims within the monetary limits of the small claims court shall be
litigated in such court at the request of either party, so long as both
disputes limit their right of recovery to the jurisdiction of the small claims
court. 
 
NOTE: By
initialing in the space below, you are agreeing to have any dispute arising out
of this Agreement decided by neutral arbitration as provided by law and you are
giving up any rights you may possess to have the dispute litigated in a court
or jury trial. The parties shall be allowed to conduct relevant discovery as is
allowed under the California Code of Civil Procedure in arbitration matters and
as further under the National Rules for Resolution of Employment Disputes. 
 
If you refuse to
submit to arbitration after agreeing to this provision, you may be compelled to
arbitrate under the authority of applicable law. You agree that your agreement
to this arbitration is voluntary.
 
(Macdonald Decl., ¶
7, Ex. A.)
 
            The
arbitration provision is signed by both Defendant and Plaintiff. (Macdonald
Decl., ¶¶ 5, 6, Ex. A.) The arbitration provision is broad and applies to “[a]ny
controversy of claim arising out of or related to this Agreement, or the breach
thereof, except for unlawful detainer actions or any dispute that arises from
Employer’s actions to regain possession of the premises, or action brought for
wages before the California Labor Commissioner or related to workers
compensation” (Id.)  The language
of the arbitration clause is considered “very broad.” (See Larkin v.
Williams, Woolley, Cogswell, Nakazawa & Russell (1999) 76 Cal.App.4th
227, 230 (arbitration clause applicable to “any controversy or claim arising
out of or relating to any provision” of partnership agreement was “very broad”
and applied to plaintiff’s complaint for breach of partnership agreement,
dissolution and accounting); Ramos v. Supr. Ct. (2018) 28 Cal.App.5th
1042, 1052 (arbitration clauses using the phrase “arising out of or related to”
are construed more broadly than arbitration clauses only using “arising from”
or “arising out of an agreement”); Berman v. Dean Witter & Co., Inc. 
(1975) 44 Cal.App.3d 999, 1003 (arbitration agreement applying to “any
controversy arising out of or relating to this contract” was “certainly broad
enough to embrace tort as well as contractual liabilities so long as they have
their roots in the relationship between the parties which was created by the
contract”).   
 
            The broad
arbitration clause applies to the Plaintiff’s FAC. Plaintiff alleges “Defendant
failed to issue Aggrieved Employees wage agreement that fully and accurately
itemized the requirements set forth in Labor Code Section 226(a) . . .” (FAC,
¶18.) The Arbitration Agreement addresses compensation due to the broad
arbitration clause incorporating “any controversy or claim arising out of or
related to” the Employment agreement which includes compensation. (See Matthews
Decl., ¶ 7, Ex. D, ¶ 2.) 
 
            Furthermore,
the broad arbitration agreement applies to the Plaintiff’s representative PAGA
claims in the FAC. To pursue a representative PAGA claim, Plaintiff must first
establish a claim against her individually that she is the “aggrieved employee,”
defined as “any person who was employed by the alleged violator and against
whom one or more of the alleged violations was committed.” (Kim v. Reins
International California, Inc. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 73, 81 [“Not every private
citizen can serve as the state's representative. Only an aggrieved employee
has PAGA standing.”].) Thus, the representative PAGA claim here is related to
the individual PAGA claim sent to arbitration on 9-28-23 in the related case,
No. 23SMCV00817. 
 
            Defendant
presents an applicable arbitration agreement and satisfies the initial burden
as the party moving to compel arbitration.  The burden is therefore on
Plaintiff to establish a defense to the arbitration agreement by a
preponderance of the evidence.   
 
Plaintiff did not submit an
opposition, and thus does not meet their burden to prove any defense to
enforcement. 
 
            Thus, the
motion to compel arbitration is GRANTED. The action is stayed pursuant to CCP
§1281.4 pending completion of arbitration.