 Case Number:  23BBCV00215    Hearing Date:   April 11, 2024    Dept:  P I.        INTRODUCTION
          These cases involve the triangular relationship between Plaintiff
HCMC Legal, Inc., (Hire Counsel) their former employee, Defendant Brian
Hartstein (Hartstein), and their competitor and Mr. Hartstein’s current employer,
Defendant Epiq Systems, Inc (Epiq).  In 22BBCV00516,
HCMC Legal Inc. v. Hartstein, Plaintiff alleges that Hartstein was employed by Hire Counsel for over 21 years. In June 2022,
Hartstein abruptly quit and went to work for Plaintiff’s competitor, Epiq.  The overall thrust of Plaintiff’s complaint
is that after joining Epiq, Hartstein accessed Plaintiff’s confidential, proprietary
data, used that data to solicit Plaintiff’s customers to his new company and
enticed former co-workers to join him at Epiq. 
The allegations against Hartstein include: 
1. He violated the terms of a promissory note with
Plaintiff and still owes Plaintiff approximately $350,000; 
2. He violated his employment agreement with Plaintiff
by
          a. Failing
to give the required 30-day notice prior to quitting; 
b. Retaining access to Plaintiff’s computer systems
and databases with confidential and proprietary information, including client
and recruitment data;
c. Using this proprietary data to benefit himself
and his new employer by soliciting Plaintiff’s clients to move their business from
Plaintiff to Epiq; and
d. Using this same data to solicit Plaintiff’s
employees to leave Hire Counsel and join him at Epiq.
          In the second case, 23BBCV00215, HCMC Legal Inc. v. Epiq
Systems, Inc., et al, Plaintiff alleges that Epiq encouraged or facilitated
Hartstein’s taking of Hire Counsel’s proprietary and confidential data. Hire
Counsel alleges that this was done to gain an unfair business advantage over
it, as the two companies are both in the legal staffing and litigation
management industry.  The allegations
against Epiq include:
1. Epiq
recruited Hartstein with the intent to gain access to Plaintiff’s confidential
data;
2.
Epiq’s employment contract with Hartstein intentionally created incentives for
Hartstein to violate the terms of his employment contract with Plaintiff by reaching
out to Plaintiff’s clients and attempting to win their business for Epiq; and
3.
Epiq encouraged Hartstein to violate his fiduciary duties to Plaintiff.
Before
the Court is Epiq’s motion to consolidate these cases.[1] Epiq
urges there are common questions of fact and law under CCP § 1048(a). Plaintiff
filed an opposition on March 28, 2024. Defendant Epiq filed a reply on April 4,
2024.
II.      LEGAL
STANDARD
          Code Civ. Proc. §1048(a) states:   
“When actions involving a
common question of law or fact are pending before the court, it may order a
joint hearing or trial of any or all the matters in issue in the actions; it
may order all the actions consolidated and it may make such orders concerning
proceedings therein as may tend to avoid unnecessary costs or delay.”
III.     ANALYSIS
          Epiq argues that these cases should be consolidated because
they are “inextricably intertwined,” i.e. that there are common questions of
law or fact as to whether Hartstein violated his employment agreement with Hire
Counsel and whether Epiq solicited him to do so. Hire Counsel opposes, arguing that
these cases involve wholly distinct questions of law and fact, consolidation
would delay trial and the cases involve distinct witnesses. 
          The Court first notes that the bases for consolidation set
forth in CCP § 1048(a) are stated in the disjunctive, i.e. “actions involving a
common question of law or fact.” A court may order consolidation based
upon either. The Court finds that there are common questions of both fact and
law in these cases.  As pointed out by
Epiq in its moving papers, there is a significant connection between the causes
of action in the two cases.  For example,
the first cause of action in the Epiq Case, aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary
duty, relates to the fourth cause of action in the Hartstein Case, breach of fiduciary
duty.  In both causes of action, it is
the same fiduciary duty, that of Hartstein to Hire Counsel, which is at issue. The
second and fifth cause of actions in the Epiq Case, intentional interference with
contractual relations and inducing breach of contract, relate to the second
cause of action in the Hartstein Case, breach of Hartstein’s employment
agreement.  It is the same employment
contract that is at issue in these causes of action.
Given
the connections between the causes of action, there are many common questions
of fact in these cases: Did Hartstein and Epiq conspire together to steal Plaintiff’s
clients or employees? Did Hartstein access Plaintiff’s confidential data while
employed by Epiq?  Did Hartstein use that
data to benefit himself and his new employer? Did Hartstein breach his employment
agreement with Plaintiff? Did Epiq induce Hartstein to breach that agreement? Did
Hartstein breach his fiduciary duty to Plaintiff?  Did Epiq induce that Breach?  
The
Court agrees that these cases are “inextricably intertwined.” One of the more
compelling facts this Court notes is the appearance of Hartstein’s name in the Epiq
complaint.  His name appears 123 times in
a 20 page document.  Further, one would
expect Hartstein to testify at length in both matters, as well as current or
former Hire Counsel and Epiq employees, and, possibly, employees of clients who
were allegedly solicited.
This
Court finds that it is in the interests of justice to consolidate these matters.  Doing so will conserve precious judicial
resources by reducing the number of overall appearances and having one trial instead
of two. These cases constitute one overarching narrative involving the
triangular relationship between these parties. A jury evaluating possible
liability must be allowed to hear the entire story and not just dislocated
segments.
IV.     CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
          The Epiq action and the Hartstein actions contain common
questions of fact and law. Pursuant to Code Civ. Proc. § 1048(a), the two
actions are consolidated. 
          
Dated:
April 10, 2024     JARED D. MOSES, JUDGE                                                                                                                   
                                                                      

