  Case Number:  21STCV00971    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



JASON DELGADO, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
FORD MOTOR COMPANY, et al., 
 
                        Defendants.
 


 


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV00971
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION TO COMPEL
  FURTHER
 
Date: 
  September 21, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 



 
MOVING
PARTY: Plaintiff
 
RESPONDING
PARTY: Defendant Ford Motor Company (“Defendant”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving, opposition and reply
papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises out of the lease
of an allegedly defective vehicle that was manufactured by Defendant.  The currently operative
second amended complaint (the “SAC”) alleges multiple violations of the
Song-Beverly Act, fraud by omission, and negligent repair.
 
 
            On June 21, 2023, Plaintiff filed a
motion to compel Defendant’s further responses to Requests for Production
(“RFP”), Set Two deposition (the “Motion”). 
 
DISCUSSION 
Under
California Code of Civil Procedure (“CCP”) section 2017.010, unless
otherwise limited by order of the court in accordance with this title, any
party may obtain discovery regarding any matter, not privileged, that is
relevant to the subject matter involved in the pending action or to the
determination of any motion made in that action, if the matter either is itself
admissible in evidence or appears reasonably calculated to lead to the
discovery of admissible evidence.  (CCP §
2017.010.)  For discovery purposes, information is regarded as relevant “if it might
reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or
facilitating settlement thereof.”  (City of Los Angeles v. Superior Court (2017)
9 Cal.App.5th 272, 288.)
 
A
motion to compel further responses to a demand for inspection or production of
documents may be brought based on: (1) incomplete statements of compliance; (2)
inadequate, evasive or incomplete claims of inability to comply; or (3)
unmerited or overly generalized objections. 
(CCP § 2031.310, subd. (c).)  A
motion to compel further production must set forth specific facts showing good
cause justifying the discovery sought by the inspection demand.  (See CCP § 2031.310 subd. (b)(1).)  The good cause requirement is met if the
proponent shows that there exists “a disputed fact that is of consequence in
the action and the discovery sought will tend in reason to prove or disprove
that fact or lead to other evidence that will tend to prove or disprove the
fact.”  (Digital Music News LLC v Superior Court (2014) 226 Cal.App.4th 216,
224.)
If
the moving party has shown good cause for the requests for production, the
burden is on the objecting party to justify the objections.  (Kirkland
v. Sup.Ct (2002) 95 Cal. App.4th 92, 98.) 
The court shall limit the scope of discovery if it determines that the
burden, expense, or intrusiveness of that discovery clearly outweighs the
likelihood that the information sought will lead to the discovery of admissible
evidence. (CCP § 2017.020, subd. (a).)  Generally,
objections on the ground of burden require the objecting party to produce
evidence of: (1) the propounding party’s subjective intent to create burden; or
(2) the amount of time and effort it would take to actually respond.  (See
West Pico Furniture Co. of Los Angeles v. Superior Court In and For Los Angeles
County (1961) 56 Cal.2d 407, 417.)  Where
discovery is obviously overbroad on its face, no such evidence is necessary.  (See Obregon v. Superior Court (1998) 67 Cal.App.4th 424, 431.)  Trial courts are vested with “wide
discretion” to allow or prohibit discovery.  (Williams
v. Superior Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, 540.) 
 
Plaintiff
served the RFPs on March 1, 2023.  (Declaration
of Jami I. Littles (“Littles Decl.”) ¶ 21, Exhibit 6.)  Defendant served its responses on April 4,
2023 and provided verifications on May 3, 2023. 
(Littles Decl. ¶ 23.)  The RFPs at
issue in the Motion concern documents regarding transmission defects in other
cars manufactured by Moving Defendant, and files that Moving Defendant has
produced in an ongoing class action lawsuit. 
 
Although
Plaintiff has demonstrated good cause for the production of documents regarding
defects in other vehicles, the Court finds that the RFPs are overly broad.  The Court therefore GRANTS the Motion in part
and orders Defendant to provide supplemental responses that include the
following documents (to the extent that such documents have not already been
produced):
1.    
Warranty
policy and procedure manuals or similar policies or claim handling procedures
that Defendant published from the date the Vehicle was purchased to the date
the lawsuit was filed;
 
2.    
Written
statements of policy and/or procedures Defendant used to evaluate customer
requests for repurchase or replacement for lemon law claims from the date the
Vehicle was purchased to the date the lawsuit was filed;
 
3.    
A
list or compilation of customer complaints in Defendant’s electronically stored
info database that are substantially similar to the alleged defects claimed by
Plaintiff (same nature of reported symptom, malfunction, dashboard indicator
light, or other manifestation of a repair problem, other than routine or
scheduled maintenance items), in vehicles purchased in California for the same
year, make and model of the Vehicle. 
This list or compilation shall include the VIN, date of repair visit,
dealership or other reporting location, and text of other customers’ reported
complaints, but shall not include customer names, addresses, phone numbers,
email addresses, or other personal identifying information;
 
4.    
TSBs
and recall notices for vehicles purchased or leased in CA for same year, make,
and model of the Vehicle; and 
 
5.    
Copies
of any repair instruction bulletin or diagnostic/repair procedure identified in
any of the repair orders.
 
Defendant’s
supplemental responses are to be provided within 20 days of the date of this
order.
 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
        
Dated this 21st day of September 2023
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 




 