 Case Number:  22STCV01813    Hearing Date:   September 21, 2023    Dept:  56  
 
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



WILLIAM MARTINEZ ASCENCIO,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
SUITABLE STAFFING SOLUTIONS, INC., et al.,
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                               


 


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV01813
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: MOTION FOR
  DETERMINATION OF GOOD FAITH SETTLEMENT
 
Date: 
  September 21, 2023
Time: 8:30 a.m. 
Dept. 56
 



 
MOVING
PARTY: Defendant Suitable Staffing Solutions, Inc. (“Moving Defendant”)
 
The
Court has considered the moving papers. 
No opposition papers were filed. 
Any opposition papers were required to have been filed and served at
least nine court days before the hearing under California Code of Civil
Procedure (“CCP”) section 1005, subdivision (b).
 
BACKGROUND
Plaintiff’s
complaint (the “Complaint”) alleges 11 causes of action that arise out of an
employment relationship.  
 
 
On
August 24, 2023, Moving Defendant filed a motion for determination of good
faith settlement (the “Motion”) on the grounds that it has agreed to settle
this matter with Plaintiff.
 
DISCUSSION
Under
CCP section 877, a release, dismissal with or without prejudice, or a covenant
not to sue or not to enforce judgment is given in good faith before verdict or
judgment to one or more of a number of tortfeasors claimed to be liable for the
same tort reduces the claims against other defendants in the amount stipulated
by the release, the dismissal or the covenant, or in the amount of the
consideration paid for it, whichever is the greater, and discharges the party
to whom it is given from all liability for any contribution to any other
parties.  (CCP § 877, subds.
(a)-(b).)  A determination by the court
that the settlement was made in good faith bars any other joint tortfeasor or
co-obligor from any further claims against the settling tortfeasor or
co-obligor for equitable comparative contribution, or partial or comparative
indemnity, based on comparative negligence or comparative fault.  (CCP § 877.6, subd. (c).)  
 
In
Tech-Bilt, Inc. v. Woodward-Clyde & Associates (1985) 38 Cal.3d 488,
499 (“Tech-Bilt”), the California Supreme Court identified the following
nonexclusive factors for courts to consider in determining if a settlement is
in good faith under CCP section 877.6: (1) a rough approximation of plaintiffs'
total recovery and the settlor's proportionate liability; (2) the amount paid
in settlement; (3) the allocation of settlement proceeds among plaintiffs; (4)
a recognition that a settlor should pay less in settlement than he would if he
were found liable after a trial; (5) the financial conditions and insurance
policy limits of settling defendants; and (6) the existence of collusion,
fraud, or tortious conduct aimed to injure the interests of nonsettling defendants.  (Id.) 
The evaluation of whether a settlement was made in good faith is
required to be made on the basis of information available at the time of
settlement.  (Id.)  A defendant’s settlement figure must not be
grossly disproportionate to what a reasonable person, at the time of the
settlement, would estimate the settling defendant’s liability to be.  (Id.)
 
The
court in City of Grand View Terrace v. Superior Court (1987) 192
Cal.App.3d 1251, 1261, provided the following guidance for evaluating a motion
for good faith settlement determination:
This court notes that of the hundreds of
motions for good faith determination presented for trial court approval each
year, the overwhelming majority are unopposed and granted summarily by the
trial court.  At the time of filing in
many cases, the moving party does not know if a contest will develop.  If each motion required a full recital by
declaration or affidavit setting forth a complete factual response to all of
the Tech-Bilt factors, literally thousands of attorney hours would be
consumed and inch-thick motions would have to be read and considered by trial
courts in an exercise which would waste valuable judicial and legal time and
clients’ resources. . . . That is to say, when no one objects, the barebones
motion which sets forth the ground of good faith, accompanied by a declaration
which sets forth a brief background of the case is sufficient.  If the good faith
settlement is contested, section 877.6, subdivision (d), sets forth a workable
ground rule for the hearing by placing the burden of proving the lack of good
faith on the contesting party.  Once
there is a showing made by the settlor of the settlement, the burden of proof
on the issue of good faith shifts to the nonsettlor who asserts that the
settlement was not made in good faith.  If
contested, declarations by the nonsettlor should be filed which in many cases
could require the moving party to file responsive counterdeclarations to negate
the lack of good faith asserted by the nonsettling contesting party.  (City of Grand View
Terrace v. Superior Court 192 Cal.App.3d 1251, 1260-61 (internal citations
omitted).)
 
Plaintiff
and Moving Defendant entered into a settlement agreement (the “Settlement”) on
July 19, 2023.  (Declaration of Craig D.
Nickerson (“Nickerson Decl.”) ¶ 22.)  Among the terms of the Settlement are a
$30,000 payment by Moving Defendant to Plaintiff in exchange for the dismissal
of Plaintiff’s claims against Moving Defendant. 
(See Nickerson Decl. ¶ 24.) 
 
            The Court finds that the Motion adequately demonstrates
that the proposed settlement complies with Tech-Bilt.  For this reason and because it is unopposed,
the
Court GRANTS the Motion.  (Sexton v. Superior Court (1997) 58
Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410.) 
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at
www.lacourt.org.  If the department does
not receive an email and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion
will be placed off calendar.
 
  Dated this 21st day of September 2023
 



 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 


