


[1] At the outset, Defendant argues that
the allegations are similar to those set forth in Carter, infra, for its
seeming proposition that the allegations regarding pressure sores are
inadequate for an elder abuse COA. (Reply p. 3.) That is not an entirely accurate reading of Carter.
In Carter, there were two defendants: the hospital
and the skilled nursing facility. While at the center, the decedent was
“continually neglected” as exhibited by allegations that decedent was “bathed
in bed, routinely not dried and instead he was placed in front of an open
window with a fan blowing on him to ‘air-dry’ ... even during cold days. This
practice of leaving [decedent] wet and cold for extended periods of time
continued despite protests by [decedent’s] daughter and ultimately caused
[decedent] to develop pneumonia.
Additionally, when [decedent] was showered in a wheel chair, he was often left
in unfamiliar surroundings, alone, wet and helpless. The center also did not
provide [decedent] sufficient nutrition or hydration. Due to this neglect,
[decedent] weakened and developed pneumonia, pressure ulcers on his lower back and buttocks and sepsis.” (Carter, infra, 198
Cal.App.4th at p. 402.) The appellate court held that said allegations were
insufficient for an elder abuse COA as to the hospital because
those allegations were “attributable
exclusively to the Center. Allegations of misconduct directed against
one defendant, however, do not state a cause of action against another
defendant against whom the allegations of misconduct are not directed.” (Id.
at p. 410, emphasis added and italics added.) Here, however, there is
one defendant: the nursing facility (akin to the center in Carter).
In any event, as the allegations regarding the pressure sores/ulcers are
different—i.e., sufficiently egregious conduct alleged in Carter that led
to the development of pressure ulcer(s) whereas no such egregious conduct
is alleged here—Carter is not entirely factually analogous.  
 
 


[2] The Reply does not
address either case. The Reply largely reiterates points raised in the
demurrer. 
 


[3] As noted above, Carter
establishes that when a plaintiff alleges recklessness (as Plaintiff does
here), the plaintiff must also allege that decedent was denied services by
defendant(s) “with conscious disregard of high probability of such injury.” (Carter,
supra, 198 Cal.App.4th 396, 407.) 

