  Case Number:  22PSCV01557    Hearing Date:   September 26, 2023    Dept:  O Tentative Ruling
 
(1)   DEFENDANT GARDENVIEW HEALTHCARE &
WELLNESS CENTRE, LP, PREVIOUSLY DBA CLAREMONT GARDENS HEALTHCARE & WELLNESS
CENTER, ERRONEOUSLY SUED AS COUNTRY VILLA CLAREMONT HEALTHCARE CENTER, INC.’S
DEMURRER TO COMPLAINT is SUSTAINED in its entirety with leave to
amend. 
 
(2)  
DEFENDANT GARDENVIEW HEALTHCARE & WELLNESS CENTRE, LP, PREVIOUSLY
DBA CLAREMONT GARDENS HEALTHCARE & WELLNESS CENTER, ERRONEOUSLY SUED AS
COUNTRY VILLA CLAREMONT HEALTHCARE CENTER, INC.’S MOTION TO STRIKE COMPLAINT is
MOOT. 
 
Background
 
This is an
alleged elder abuse case. 
 
On October
28, 2022, Plaintiff DMARIO FINCH (“Plaintiff”), Individually and as Successor
in Interest to NOVELLA HOWARD (“decedent”), Deceased, filed suit against
Defendants COUNTRY VILLA CLAREMONT HEALTHCARE CENTER, INC.; COUNTRY VILLA
SERVICE CORP. for: 1.     Professional Negligence 2.     Reckless Neglect In Violation Of Elder
Abuse And Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act (“EADACPA” or “Elder Abuse”) 3.     Violations Of Patient’s Bill Of Rights 4.     Wrongful Death
 
On March 13,
2023, Defendant filed the instant demurrer with a motion to strike. 
 
On September
12, 2023, Plaintiff filed an opposition.
 
Legal
Standard
 
A demurrer
may be asserted, in pertinent part, on the grounds that the pleading does not
state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action. (Civ. Proc. Code
§430.10 (e).) (Demurrer p. 3.) A demurrer tests the sufficiency of a pleading,
and the grounds for a demurrer must appear on the face of the pleading or from
judicially noticeable matters. (Id. at §430.30, subd. (a); Blank
v. Kirwan, (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) 
 
Discussion
 
Defendant
demurs to the 2nd through 4th COAs largely on the grounds
of conclusory allegations. The court agrees.
 
1.     Second COA for Elder Abuse[1]
 
“The
purpose of the [EADACPA was] essentially to protect a particularly vulnerable
portion of the population from gross mistreatment in the form of abuse and
custodial neglect.” (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004)
32 Cal.4th 771, 787.) The EADACPA excludes liability for acts of
professional negligence; it does not apply to simple or gross negligence by
health care providers. (Delaney v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, 32; Covenant
Care, Inc., supra, 32 Cal.4th at p. 785.) Several factors must be present for conduct to constitute neglect
within the meaning of the Elder Abuse Act and thereby trigger the enhanced
remedies available under the Act. 
 
The
plaintiff must allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing evidence)
facts establishing that the defendant: (1) had responsibility for meeting the
basic needs of the elder or dependent adult, such as nutrition, hydration,
hygiene or medical care; (2) knew of conditions that made the elder or
dependent adult unable to provide for his or her own basic needs; and (3) denied
or withheld goods or services necessary to meet the elder or dependent adult's
basic needs, either with knowledge that injury was substantially certain to
befall the elder or dependent adult (if the plaintiff alleges oppression, fraud
or malice) or with conscious disregard of the high probability of such injury
(if the plaintiff alleges recklessness). 
 
“Recklessness,
unlike negligence, involves more than ‘inadvertence, incompetence,
unskillfulness, or a failure to take precautions’ but rather rises to the
level of ‘conscious choice of a course of action . . . with knowledge of
the serious danger to others involved in it.’” (Delaney, supra, 20
Cal.4th at p. 31-32, emphasis added and underline added). (The plaintiff must
also allege (and ultimately prove by clear and convincing evidence) that the
neglect caused the elder or dependent adult to suffer physical harm, pain or
mental suffering. 
 
Finally,
the facts constituting the neglect and establishing the causal link between the
neglect and the injury must be plead with particularity, in accordance
with the pleading rules governing statutory claims. (Carter v. Prime
Healthcare Paradise Valley LLC (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 396,
406-407 [quotation marks and citations omitted].) Thus, “the plaintiff must set forth
facts in his [or her] complaint sufficiently detailed and specific to support
an inference that each of the statutory elements of liability is satisfied.
General allegations are regarded as inadequate.” (Demurrer p. 7, citing Mittenhuber
v. City of Redondo Beach (1983) 142 Cal. App. 3d 1, 5.) 
 
Here, the
pertinent allegations to the 2nd COA are as follows:
 
-       
Novella
Howard was admitted from Chino Valley Medical Center. Discharge recommendations
from that facility called for strict measures to prevent skin breakdown,
including position change at least every two to three hours, avoid positioning
on the trochanter, keep the head of the bed at its lower elevation, elevate
heels off the bed surface, and placing pressure reducing cushions in the
wheelchair and on the bed
-       
Defendants
failed to document any measures taken to prevent skin breakdown. Defendants’
failures include, but are not limited to, the failure to: implement screening
for pressure sores, meticulously reposition decedent, document continence care,
regularly assess nutritional markers, document wound checks, and maintain
adequate moisture of skin to prevent skin breakdown
-       
Defendant
they that the failure to provide proper treatment of existing injuries and to
take measures to prevent other skin injuries would inevitably result in
existing injuries becoming more severe and in the development of additional
similar injuries. 
-       
Said
neglect was done directly by defendants, or through their agents and employees
who were unfit to act as Novella Howard’s care custodians and care providers.
 
(See
Complaint pp. 7-8.) 
 
In sum, the crux of Plaintiff’s elder abuse
COA is based upon Defendant’s purported failure to tend to prevent pressure
ulcers and provide wound care. (Complaint ¶26.) However, these allegations, for all the reasons set
forth by Defendant, are insufficient for an Elder Abuse COA.  (See Demurrer pp. 6-8, generally.) 
 
a.    
Conscious Disregard
 
First, the allegations at best
demonstrates substandard care, not recklessness, because Plaintiff has
not alleged Defendant’s alleged conscious choice (i.e., intent) to disregard Plaintiff’s
health. (Delaney, supra, 20 Cal.4th at p. 31-32.)  
 
“‘Recklessness' ” is defined as a “
‘subjective state of culpability greater than mere negligence,’ ” involving a “
‘deliberate disregard’ ” of the “ ‘high degree of probability’ ” that an injury
will occur. (Ibid.) Reckless conduct “rises to the level of a ‘conscious
choice of a course of action ... with knowledge of the serious danger to others
involved in it.’ [Citation.]” (Id. at pp. 31-32.) An elder abuse COA, however, does not apply to “substandard
performance of medical services but, rather, to the failure of those
responsible for attending to the basic needs and comforts of elderly or
dependent adults, regardless of their professional standing, to carry out their
custodial obligations. Thus, the statutory definition of ‘neglect’ speaks not
of the undertaking of medical services, but of the failure to provide
medical care.” (Sababin v. Superior Court (2006) 144 Cal.App.4th 81, 89
[quotation marks and citation omitted].) Here, however, there are no
allegations that Defendant withheld medical support or aid, nor are
there allegations to infer intent, as Plaintiff’s opposition suggests. 
 
The opposition relies upon two cases
to support its position that the failure to tend to pressure sores is adequate
to show neglect. (Opp. p. 5.) But both the cases are inapposite.[2]

 
The first case Plaintiff relies upon
is Intrieri v. Superior Court (2004) 117 Cal.App.4th 72, but the case is
procedurally and factually distinguishable. First, as acknowledged by
Plaintiff, the case involved a summary judgment motion, not a demurrer, whereas
on a demurrer, the court cannot make factual or evidentiary findings. Second,
as to the facts, in Intrieri, a patient (“defendant”) gained access to
the Alzheimer’s unit of a nursing home and engaged in an altercation with the
plaintiff (“victim”). While the decision was largely concerned whether there was a triable question of material fact as to the
reckless conduct element of the elder abuse claim regarding an altercation
between two patients (as records revealed that the nursing home
personnel had noted that the defendant was hostile and disoriented yet allowed
the defendant to freely roam and verbally assault other patients), the case briefly
mentioned pressure sores. Specifically, the case noted the following: 
 
Finally, we find that
petitioners' evidence was sufficient to create a triable question of fact as to
whether Guardian's conduct with respect to Mrs. Intrieri's pressure sores
constituted a reckless failure to provide medical care for her physical health
needs. Petitioners' evidence showed that Peter Intrieri observed
pressure sores developing on Mrs. Intrieri after her readmission to Guardian
following her hip surgery, that he
complained to the physician assigned by Guardian to care for Mrs. Intrieri,
and that nothing was done for her. A month later, the pressure
sores had grown much worse, but Guardian made no changes to Mrs.
Intrieri's care plan and Peter Intrieri hired an outside physician who
developed a new care plan. When Guardian staff failed to follow the new
care plan, Peter Intrieri confronted the staff but again,
nothing was done. Mrs. Intrieri developed infected pressure sores on her right
foot that eventually led to amputation of her right toe and then her
right leg below the knee. It may be reasonably inferred from this chain of
events that Guardian acted with reckless neglect in caring for Mrs. Intrieri.
 
(Id.
at p. 85, emphasis and italics added.) 
 
Here, however, the facts are different
because here Plaintiff does not allege that Defendant did nothing. Rather, the allegations largely pertain to the alleged
failure to document and implement pressure ulcer precautions. (Complaint
¶9.) The lack of
documentation is not alleged to indicate that there was a complete failure to
take precautions. In
fact, the allegations tacitly concede checks were provided, just not every two
hours nor “meticulously” provided. (See Complaint ¶¶9, 20
[“Meticulously implement turning and repositioning of patient at least
once every two hours”].) 
 
Next, Plaintiff’s
citation to Country Villa Claremont Healthcare Center, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2004) 120 Cal.App.4th 426 (Country Villa) is also inapposite because
the case did not involve the sufficiency of the pleadings but whether section
425.13(a) applies to punitive damage claims in actions where the
gravamen of the claims is elder abuse. 
 
Therefore,
absent allegations regarding employees’ conscious disregard for decedent, the
elder abuse COA fails on said grounds.[3] 
 
b.     Causation 
 
Second, as noted by the court in Carter, a casual link between
the purported recklessness and injury must be alleged. Here, however, decedent died from cardiopulmonary
failure, and chronic kidney disease (see Complaint, Ex. A [death certificate])
not from pressure ulcers, dehydration, malnourishment, and lack of
rehabilitation. (Complaint ¶26.) Plaintiff’s
opposition does not squarely address causation. 
 
Thus, absent allegations regarding causation, the elder abuse COA fails
on said grounds. 
 
c.      Ratification 
 
Third, when
an elder abuse claim is brought against a corporate defendant, the plaintiff
must further show that an officer, director or managing agent authorized or
ratified the abuse or neglect. (Welf & Inst. Code, § 15657, subd. (c); Civ.
Code, § 3294; see also see also CACI section 3102B.) 
 
Here,
however, Plaintiff has not identified any specific employee who engaged in any
wrongful conduct, have failed to identify any specific employee as being unfit
to carry out his/her duties and have failed to plead that the corporate
defendant was aware of such unfitness and allowed the employee to perform
his/her work. Rather, the complaint conclusively alleges that “[e]ach
defendant ratified and authorized the wrongful conduct of the employee(s). As
to any corporate defendant employer, such advance knowledge, conscious
disregard, authorization and ratification was on the part of an officer,
director or managing agent.” (Complaint ¶24a, b.) 
 
In Opposition, Plaintiff advances two arguments. (Opp. p. 8.) First,
Plaintiff, without authority nor analysis, states that the statute only applies
to corporations, not other business entities. The court is unpersuaded by the
terse argument. That said,
Plaintiff’s next argument is meritorious: an attack on the prayer for relief is
improper on demurrer. Opp. p. 9, quoting Ramsden v. Western Union
(1977) 71 Cal.App.3d 873, 882-883 [“[I]t has
been held that a prayer for relief is not subject to demurrer and the fact that
a plaintiff has requested exemplary damages to which he may not be entitled
does not affect the sufficiency of his complaint.”].) The Reply does not
address this argument nor case. 
 
Therefore, the failure to plead
ratification is not grounds to sustain the demurrer as it is more appropriate
argument to be raised on a motion to strike. 
 
In
sum, as Plaintiff has not pled certain elements of an elder abuse COA (e.g.,
conscious disregard) the demurrer is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
2. Third COA for Violation of
Patient’s Bill of Rights
 
All patients have rights guaranteed to
them by statute and regulation, including those provided by Health and Code
sections. 
 
Plaintiff predicates this COA based
upon the allegation that “Defendants violated Novella Howard’ rights on
numerous occasions and violated the requirements set forth in Health and Safety
Code section 1599.1 that an adequate number of qualified personnel be employed
to carry out all the functions of defendants’ facility and to maintain good
personal hygiene standard.” (¶31.)
 
Here, as noted by Defendant, Plaintiff
does not state any facts to support what rights were violated, despite this
being a statutory claim (Health and Safety Code section 1430b), thus being subject
to a heightened pleading standard. 
 
The opposition does not squarely
address this COA.
 
Therefore, the court sustains the
demurrer with leave to amend as to this COA. 
 
3. Wrongful Death
 
“‘The elements of the cause of action for wrongful death are the
tort (negligence or other wrongful act), the resulting death, and the damages,
consisting of the pecuniary
loss suffered by the heirs. [Citations.]” (5 Witkin, Cal. Procedure (4th
ed. 1997) Pleading, § 891, p. 350.) The wrongful death statute ‘limits the
right of recovery to a class of persons who, because of their relation to the
deceased, are presumed to be injured by his [or her] death [citation] and bars
claims by persons who are not in the chain of intestate succession.
[Citations.]’” [citation]. (Quiroz v. Seventh Ave. Center (2006) 140
Cal.App.4th 1256, 1263.) Causation
is an essential element of a claim for wrongful death. As such, in order to
plead a claim for wrongful death, there must be facts that support the
allegation that Defendant’s wrongful conduct caused decedent’s death. (Jacoves
v. United Merchandizing Corp. (1992) 9 Cal.App.4th 88, 105.)
 
Here, Defendant demurs on the grounds that the complaint fails to state
sufficient facts to establish that Defendant caused or contributed to
decedent’s death. The Complaint does not allege any facts concerning decedent’s
death, other than the fact that she died on January 28, 2022; the cause of
death is only learned from the death certificate. The singular fact that
decedent died, without a factual indication regarding the cause of death, is
insufficient for this cause of action. 
 
The
opposition does not squarely address this argument. 
 
Thus, the
court sustains the demur with leave to amend with the regard to the wrongful
death COA. 
 
As the court has given leave, the motion to strike
punitive damages related to the elder abuse COA and the motion to strike
attorney fees related to the bill of rights COA are MOOT. 
 
Conclusion
 
Based on the foregoing, the demurrer is
SUSTAINED in its entirety with leave to amend and the motion to strike punitive
damages and attorney fees is MOOT. 
 
 


