 On December 16, 2021, Plaintiff Shenika Dailey filed the operative First Amended Complaint for medical negligence.  Defendant Southern California Healthcare System, Inc. seeks summary judgment or, alternatively, summary adjudication of its affirmative defense because “1.) Plaintiff, Shenika Dailey, by and through her GAL, has pled a claim for Medical Negligence and cannot prove that any alleged negligence on the part of SCHCC and its employees prior to, during, or after plaintiff's bariatric surgery. 2.) Nothing SCHCC did and/or its employees did prior to, during, or after plaintiff's bariatric surgery, caused or contributed to her injuries; [3].) SCHCC is not ostensibly liable for the conduct of any of the named physicians, BRIAN B. QUEBBEMAN M.D., JAMSHID NIKNAM, M.D, RAVINDER SINGH, M.D., or BERNARD MCNAMARA, M.D. who treated plaintiff at SCHCC, or any of the unnamed physicians who treated plaintiff at SCHCC.”The law of summary judgment provides courts “a mechanism to cut through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  In reviewing a motion for summary judgment or adjudication, courts employ a three-step analysis: “(1) identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving party has negated the opponent’s claims; and (3) determine whether the opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual issue.”  (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.)  The moving party bears the initial burden of production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any triable issue, in which case the burden shifts to the opposing party to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a triable issue.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(p)(2).)  To show a triable issue of material fact exists, the opposing party may not rely on the mere allegations or denials of the pleadings, but instead must set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue exists as to that cause of action or a defense thereto.  (Aguilar, at p. 849.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)Previously, the Court continued the instant Motion such that Plaintiff could conduct discovery and file a substantive opposition.   The Motion for Summary Judgment is now granted because there is no substantive opposition, including a separate statement of undisputed fact.  (Code Civ. Proc. § 437c(b)(3).)Moving party to give notice.If counsel do not submit on the tentative, they are strongly encouraged to appear by LACourtConnect rather than in person due to the COVID-19 pandemic.