  Case Number:  21PSCV00428    Hearing Date:   December 13, 2024    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Maria Angela
Rodriguez v. Mercado Latino, Inc., et al. 
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Compel Documents and Deposition Testimony from Third Party Subpoenant
Richard Hoting and for Privilege Log 
TENTATIVE RULING           
The Court DENIES
Plaintiff’s motion to compel documents and deposition testimony from third
party subpoenant Richard Hoting and for privilege log. 
Defendants are ordered to give notice of this ruling and file
proof of service of same within five calendar days. 
BACKGROUND 
This
is an involuntary dissolution action. On May 21, 2021, Plaintiff Maria Angela
Rodriguez (Plaintiff) filed this action against Defendants Mercado Latino, Inc.
(Mercado Latino), Grosac, Inc. (Grosac), Richard Yarruths Rodriguez (Richard), Roberto
Rodriguez (Roberto), Jorge Rodriguez (Jorge) (collectively, Defendants), and
Does 1 through 50. On July 2, 2024, Plaintiff filed the operative Third Amended
Complaint (TAC), alleging causes of action for involuntary dissolution of
Mercado Latino and Grosac, breach of fiduciary duty, financial elder abuse, and
accounting. 
On
October 10, 2024, Plaintiff moved to compel documents and deposition testimony
from third party Richard Hoting. On October 31, 2024, Mercado Latino, Grosac, Richard,
and Roberto opposed the motion. On October 31, 2024, Jorge joined the
opposition. Plaintiff did not reply. 
LEGAL STANDARD
(a) If a deponent fails to
answer any question or to produce any document,
electronically stored information, or tangible thing under the
deponent's control that is specified in the deposition notice or a deposition
subpoena, the party seeking discovery may move the court for an order
compelling that answer or production. 
(b) This motion shall be made
no later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition, and
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. 
(c) Notice of this motion
shall be given to all parties and to the deponent either orally at the
examination, or by subsequent service in writing. If the notice of the motion
is given orally, the deposition officer shall direct the deponent to attend a session
of the court at the time specified in the notice. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subds. (a)-(c).) 
DISCUSSION 
Meet and Confer 
The Court finds Plaintiff’s
efforts to meet and confer sufficient. (Bickel Decl., ¶ 10, Ex. C.) 
Summary of Arguments 
Plaintiff moves to compel
nonparty deponent Richard Hoting (Hoting) to provide responsive documents
without objection on the basis of attorney-client privilege or attorney work
product, that Hoting not withhold any document based on an assertion of
privacy, that Hoting provide a privilege log with respect to any withheld documents,
and that Hoting appear for deposition before the end of November 2024 and not
assert attorney-client privilege or work product with respect to any
information he obtained during his joint representation of Plaintiff and
Defendants. Plaintiff contends that Hoting refused to answer questions
regarding his joint representation of Plaintiff and the brother Defendants on
the grounds of attorney-client privilege, which Plaintiff contends is not
permissible under Evidence Code section 962 since the parties were joint
clients of Hoting during the relevant period in question. 
Plaintiff seeks to compel
production of documents in response to the following requests:
·        
Request Numbers 1 through 6
and 14 through 16, which demand communications between Hoting and each of the
brother Defendants regarding the directors, shareholders, and management of
Mercado Latino;
·        
Request Number 7, which
demands that Hoting produce any agreements between himself and Plaintiff;
·        
Request Numbers 8 through 13,
which demand communications between Hoting and each of the brother Defendants
regarding the directors and shareholders of Grosac;
·        
Request Numbers 17 through 19,
which demand communications between Hoting and the brother Defendants regarding
Plaintiff;
·        
Request Numbers 20 through 25,
which demand documents related to compensation, reimbursed business expense and
stock certificates in Grosac and Mercado Latino that Hoting received from those
entities;
·        
Request Numbers 26 and 27,
which seek copies of stock certificates in Grosac and Mercado owned by
Plaintiff; and
·        
Request Numbers 28 and 29,
which demand all financial records of Grosac and Mercado that are in Hoting’s
possession. 
Plaintiff also contends that
Defendants’ objection on the basis of the notice to consumer forms under Code
of Civil Procedure section 1985.3 does not prevent Mr. Hoting from producing
documents in response to the subpoena, and only provided a ground for Hoting to
not produce documents, but Hoting never raised that as a reason for not producing
documents, and instead relied on attorney-client privilege and work product.
Plaintiff contends that if Hoting continues to withhold documents at his
continued deposition, he must, at a minimum, substantiate any claim with a
privilege log. 
In opposition, Defendants
contend that Plaintiff failed to serve the moving papers for this motion upon
Hoting and that the motion must be denied. Defendants contend that Plaintiff
never provided the individual Defendants a notice to consumer either. Defendants
then argue that Plaintiff cannot waive the attorney-client privilege for the
brother Defendants vis-à-vis Hoting’s representation because Hoting’s only
client was the trust, not the siblings individually. Defendants contend
Plaintiff retained a separate attorney at that time regarding her personal
interests. Defendants contend the trust requires all the trustees to act
unanimously and the trustees here do not agree, so there cannot be a waiver of
the attorney-client privilege or attorney work product doctrine with respect to
Hoting. 
Defendants
further contend that the demand for documents made upon Hoting exceeds the
scope of his claimed retention. Defendants contend Hoting was retained to
generally analyze the tax implications of certain hypothetical transactions and
provide only an opinion that has no bearing on this case and is not likely to
lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. Defendants contend the requests
are overbroad, unduly burdensome, and violate the attorney-client privilege and
attorney work product doctrine. 
Analysis 

Defendants correctly contend that there is no evidence
that Plaintiff served the moving papers on Hoting. The proofs of service for
the motion only indicate service on counsel for Defendants. (Motion, p. 14 of
pdf.) The motion must be served on both the parties to the case and the
nonparty deponent. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.480, subd. (c); Cal. Rules of
Court, rule 3.1346 [“A written notice and all moving papers supporting a motion
to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel production of a
document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be personally served
on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service
by mail or electronic service at an address or electronic service address specified on
the deposition record”].) 
Moreover, Defendants correctly note that Plaintiff
failed to timely serve a Notice to Consumer on the brother Defendants in
conjunction with the deposition subpoena, the latter of which was originally served
on August 7, 2024. (See Bickel Decl., Ex. A, p. 15 of pdf.) The Notices to
Consumer served on October 10, 2024, are unavailing because they were served well
after the original subpoena was served, and involve a different deposition set
for December 12, 2024. (See Bickel Decl., Exs. A, E; Code Civ. Proc., § 1985.3,
subd. (e) [notice to consumer must be served with copy of subpoena].) 
The Court declines to consider the parties’ other
arguments. Based on the foregoing, the Court DENIES the motion. 
CONCLUSION           
The Court DENIES
Plaintiff’s motion to compel documents and deposition testimony from third
party subpoenant Richard Hoting and for privilege log. 
Defendants are ordered to give notice of this ruling and file
proof of service of same within five calendar days.