  Case Number:  SC126845    Hearing Date:   September 11, 2024    Dept:  200 LOS ANGELES
SUPERIOR COURT 
WEST DISTRICT -
BEVERLY HILLS COURTHOUSE  
DEPT. 200
 
TENTATIVE RULING
ON  DEFENDANTS’ OBJECTION TO ENTRY OF
PROPOSED JUDGMENT AFTER JURY VERDICT  
 
Lackey, et al. v.
Zohoury, et al., Case No. SC126845
Hearing Date:
September 11, 2024, 8:30 a.m. 
 
INTRODUCTION 
 
          On August
6, 2024, the Jury returned their verdict after Phase 2 of trial. In turn, the
Court issued an OSC re: entry of judgment to assure a judgment was timely
executed. The OSC was set for September 11, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. 
 
          On August
14, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a proposed judgment after the jury verdict. 
 
          On August
23, 2024, Defendants filed objections to the proposed judgment, requested
deferral of entry of judgment until completion of post-trial motions and
requested oral argument. On the same date, Defendants filed a notice of errata
that deferral of entry of judgment be only until the Court addressed the issue
of various alleged credits, as opposed to until after post-trial motions were
decided. Specifically, Defendants contend that the proposed judgment should be offset
to reflect offsets for amounts Plaintiffs received in reduction of their rent
from the Rent Control Board. Defendants argue procedurally that this issue
should be addressed prior to entry of a judgment. Substantively, Defendants
contend that they are entitled to these offsets – the amounts of which were not
disputed - and indeed that Plaintiffs had agreed they were appropriate. 
 
          On August
27, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a response to the objections, including to deferral
of entry of judgment until after post-trial motions and that the objections
(including as to the alleged credits) did not go to the “form” of the judgment
but to issues to be decided by post-trial motions and that therefore judgment
should now be entered. Plaintiffs argue that the judgment should not be offset
to reflect these amounts because Defendants’ counsel elected to make this claim
to the jury in their Closing Argument and cannot now inconsistently make claim
that the verdict should be reduced to reflect those amounts. In addition, Plaintiffs
note that Defendants declined a proposed instruction as to how the jury should
address the rent reductions when the Court held a hearing on the proposed
instructions. 
 
          On August
28, 2024, pursuant to Rules of Court, Rule 3.1590(k), and to provide clarity
going forward as to the different issues involved, the Court scheduled a
hearing on the objections to the proposed judgment for the same date and time
as the OSC set forth above.
 
DISCUSSION 
 
          
Initially, the Court is not now addressing the second and third
arguments reflected in the objections; namely, as to alleged impermissible double
recovery of fines and punitive damages and as to the excessiveness of the
punitive damages. Those issues are reserved for the post-trial motions
Defendants state they intend to file. The Court is now addressing only the argument
concerning amending the proposed judgment to reflect offsets for amounts
Plaintiffs received in reduction of their rent from the Rent Control Board. 
 
          The Court
concurs with Defendants that the issue of offsets should be decided prior to
entry of judgment. See generally Craig of Calif. v. Green (1949)
89 Cal.App.2d 829 (appeal dismissed where there was not a final judgment where
there remained potential offsets against the amount awarded. Court can reserve
jurisdiction over an interlocutory decree to determine offsets.) 
 
          Further,
relevant here, in May v. Miller (1991) 228 Cal.App.3d 404, the Court
affirmed a trial court having offset a verdict where the jury had not been
instructed as to how to apply a settlement the plaintiff had received from
another joint tortfeasor in another action – that needed to be factored in
under CCP sec. 877(a). It appeared absent that offset the plaintiff may have
obtained a double recovery. The Court found it could not permissibly presume
that a jury would have known to offset the prior payment to the plaintiff though
informed of that payment. (Id., 228 Cal.App.3d at 411) As here, the Court
cannot presume that the jury necessarily knew that whatever it awarded
Plaintiffs that it then should reduce that amount by the rent reduction. The
Court did not instruct the jurors on this issue though Defendants argued these
amounts should be considered by the jury in making their determination.  
 
          The Court
finds that Defendants, however, waived any right they had for instructions to
the jury concerning the rent reductions in expressly declining an instruction
from the Court when this was discussed at the hearing on the proposed
instructions, as counsel for Defendants acknowledges in paragraph 5 of his
declaration in support of the objection. Defendants may not permissibly complain
about the lack of instruction when by their own actions they could have avoided
the issue. Similarly, Defendants did not request that the verdict form include
provision for a finding concerning an offset for rent reductions. 
 
          The Court
also finds that the proposed judgment should not be offset where Defendants
requested in their closing argument that those rent reductions be considered by
the jury in coming to their decision. Defendants cannot now make that request
to the Court where the jury may have already implicitly included a reduction in
rent in determining the amount of compensatory damages they awarded, even if
they did not know per se that the award might be reduced to reflect this rent
reduction. It is not clear, as in May, supra, that Plaintiffs here would
be obtaining a double recovery without the Court now providing an offset. Further,
unlike in May, supra, there is not a statutory requirement to reduce the
amount of a claim satisfied by a joint tortfeasor. There is no joint tortfeasor.
Further, what rent reduction Plaintiffs received the jurors may have believed was
irrelevant to the other sorts of damages the jury found they suffered. Indeed, providing
an offset might be effectively providing Defendants a double offset for those
amounts.[1] 
          Finally,
while Plaintiffs had initially indicated that the rent reduction issue should
be handled separately post-verdict, they can no longer be reasonably be bound
by that agreement when then Defendants elected to seek the rent reduction
directly from the jury. 
 
CONCLUSION 
 
          For these
reasons, the Courts overrules the objection. There does not appear to be any
good cause to reserve on entry of judgment for further consideration of this
issue for purposes of CCP sec. 664. The Court will now enter the proposed
judgment. 


