 Case Number:  23SMCV02379    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  I Plaintiff
Cause Communications (“plaintiff”) filed this breach of contract action against
defendant California Mental Health Services Authority (“defendant”).  According to the operative Second Amended
Complaint (“SAC”), defendant is a governmental entity that works at the
direction of the county that is providing funding for its programs.  (SAC, ¶3.) 
The parties entered into the first of five agreements in March 2018,
under which plaintiff would serve as the expert on creating mental health
campaigns.  (Id. at ¶4.)  On or around June 14, 2020, the parties
entered into a Standard Services Agreement LA Media & Communications,
Agreement No. 607-2020-LAM-COPY, effective from July 1, 2020 to June 30,
2023.  (Id. at ¶5.)  Plaintiff asserts the total funding it
received under the agreement was $13,082,500. 
(Id. at ¶6.)  Exhibit A to
the Agreement stated that plaintiff would “ ‘keep[] projects in forward motion’
(Deliverable 1.3).”  (Id. at
¶7.)  Among various amendments was one on
January 12, 2022, that plaintiff asserts extended the term through and
including June 30, 2024.  (Id. at
¶9.)  Additionally, this revision
allegedly revised the contract’s statement of work to include the Why We Rise
2022 campaign, increased the budget to $4,250,000, and required plaintiff to
submit a plan on how to sustain the Why We Rise campaign beyond June 30,
2022.  (Id. at ¶10.)  Plaintiffs contend there were more revisions
thereafter, but it never received any notice of termination during that
time.  (Id. at ¶¶11-14.) Plaintiff sent multiple invoices to defendant, and
defendant paid them.  (SAC, ¶15.)  However, plaintiff contends it has not yet
been paid a (very large) $400,000 invoice issued for work carried out as part
of the Why We Rise 2022 campaign.  (Ibid.)  “On October 3, 2022, CAUSE issued its final
invoice for $400,000, which remains outstanding. . .  The line items in the invoice include, but
are not necessarily limited to, the following line items in the Agreement’s
scope of work: Community Engagement: Direct Grants to Community Organizations;
Community Engagement: Fund Organizers; Education/Project Implementation &
Management: Social Media/Media Relations; Education/Project Implementation
& Management: Website, Marketing & Promotion; and Education/Project
Implementation & Management: Capacity Building for Community Organizations
& Project Implementation/Management.” 
(Id. at ¶15.)  Plaintiff
demanded payment and the last demand was made on February 14, 2023.  (Id. at ¶16.)  Plaintiff asserts it performed all of its
services and obligations are required under the agreement.  (Id. at ¶17.)Plaintiff asserts that on October 3, 2022, Los
Angeles County Department of Mental Health’s (“DMH”) Acting Director, Lisa
Wong, told plaintiff in writing, “we’re moving forward with Cause & We Rise
for 22/23.  Connie will be contacting you
to discuss details.  I am looking forward
to a wonderful event in May/2023[.]” 
(SAC, ¶19.)  Throughout October and
November 2022, plaintiff claims that it expressed concern about negotiating a
future agreement with defendant, given the slow payments and past due receivables.  (Id. at ¶21.)  Plaintiff contends that on November 23, 2022,
DMH’s employee Darlesh Horn, at the direction of the Acting Director Connie
Draxler, sent plaintiff a draft contract between plaintiff and defendant.  (Id. at ¶22.)  The draft contract was for a term between
October 12, 2022 to July 31, 2023, with funding not to exceed $4,250,000.  (Ibid.)  During negotiations, plaintiff claims that it
pressed four issues: (1) the past due $400,000 invoice; (2) a significant
advance of the funding at the beginning of the agreement, pending plaintiff’s
demonstration that the advance was necessary; (3) prompt payment of invoices at
specific intervals; and (4) acknowledgment of DMH as subject matter experts for
plaintiff’s reporting purposes.  (Id.
at ¶23.)Plaintiff states that defendant questioned the
validity of the first issue, and stated the second and third were against its
policies, though plaintiff claims that defendant’s statement was not true.  (SAC, ¶24.) 
Plaintiff and DMH allegedly had a call scheduled on November 30 to
discuss things, but it was cancelled by DMH. (Ibid.)  Plaintiff contends that on December 18, 2022,
DMH’s Draxler told plaintiff that defendant was open to negotiating a We Rise
2023 contract and to reach out to defendant. 
(Id. at ¶25.)  Plaintiff
asserts it was ready, willing, and able to provide services for the We Rise
2023 program, and so it began background and preparatory activities at
defendant’s request.  (Id. at
¶26.)  Plaintiff purportedly sent
defendant revisions to the draft agreement on December 19, 2022, only to
receive defendant’s responsive draft on January 24, 2023, which reverted to the
original November 2022 draft that did not address plaintiff’s four issues.  (Id. at ¶¶27-28.)  During a phone call that same day, defendant
purportedly demanded documentation to support plaintiff’s concerns.  (Id. at ¶28.)  Plaintiff claims that it sent the
documentation on January 30.  (Id.
at ¶29.)  Plaintiff states that on
January 31, defendant abruptly terminated negotiations for the We Rise 2023
agreement.  (Id. at ¶30.)  Defendant allegedly claimed negotiations were
terminated in consultation with DMH, although plaintiff asserts that DMH denied
it.  (Id. at ¶31.)Currently before the court is defendant’s
demurrer to the first cause of action on the ground of failure to state
sufficient facts. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (e).)  Plaintiff opposes.  (It is unclear whether defendant thinks it is
demurring to more than that, but the demurrer itself is clear that the demurrer
is to the first cause of action only.)The court first addresses a few preliminary
matters.  Defendant requests judicial
notice of plaintiff’s two claim letters, defendant’s bylaws, and a resolution
by defendant’s executive committee. The request is GRANTED.  As to the two claim letters, “If a plaintiff
alleges compliance with the claims presentation requirement, but the public
records do not reflect compliance, the governmental entity can request the
court to take judicial notice under Evidence Code section 452, subdivision (c)
that the entity's records do not show compliance.  (See Fowler v. Howell (1996) 42
Cal.App.4th 1746, 1752; California Government Tort Liability Practice
(Cont.Ed.Bar 4th ed. 2014) § 5.17, p. 181 (rev. 2/13)).)”  (Gong v. City of Rosemead (2014) 226
Cal.App.4th 363, 376, parallel citations omitted.)  In opposition, plaintiff objects on the basis
defendant has not authenticated the letters. This is true, but plaintiff does
not otherwise dispute the authenticity of them. 
Nor would it be dispositive unless there is truly some question as to
authenticity.  Authenticity is a low
bar.  The court would take it amiss for
plaintiff to take the position that the demurrer should be overruled on that
basis only to have a motion for judgment on the pleadings filed the next day to
be granted because the authentication is now proper.  The court and the taxpayer have better uses
of their resources.  Unless plaintiff
says otherwise at the hearing, the court assumes plaintiff will abandon the
authenticity issue.The request as to defendant’s by-laws and the
resolution is GRANTED.  “The hearing on
demurrer may not be turned into a contested evidentiary hearing through the
guise of having the court take judicial notice of documents whose truthfulness
or proper interpretation are disputable.” 
(Joslin v. H.A.S. Ins. Brokerage (1986) 184 Cal.App.3d 369,
374.)  That said, defendant contends that
the documents are available to the public on the web.  As such, the court can take judicial notice
of that fact even though there is no evidence that plaintiff had actual notice
(as opposed to constructive notice) of these by-laws and the resolution or know
what was required thereunder.  Those
documents have jural effect; there is thus no hearsay component.Plaintiff also questions the adequacy of the meet
and confer.  Specifically, plaintiff
complains that defendant did not submit a meet and confer declaration and the
effort itself was insufficient.  The
Kardassakis declaration notes that she and defendant’s attorney “did not
discuss CalMHSA’s anticipated demurrer in person, by telephone, or by
videoconference prior to CalMHSA filing the Demurrer to First Cause of Action
in Second Amended Complaint.” 
(Kardassakis Decl., ¶3.) This is troubling, given that the failure to
meet and confer was raised in the prior opposition to the demurrer to the
FAC.  In its reply, the defendant argued
(correctly) that the court may not overrule or sustain a demurrer based on
deficiencies in the meet and confer process. 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a)(4).)  Even so, if plaintiff’s counsel’s recitation
of the meet and confer effort is true, the court wonders if defendant purposely
ignored the meet and confer effort because the court cannot overrule a demurrer
for any deficiency in that process. The court will question counsel about the
meet and confer effort.  While it is true
that the court cannot overrule a demurrer or strike it for lack of a meet and
confer, the court can certainly continue the matter.  The new date is within the court’s discretion
and, should it be true that there was no meet and confer, the court will assume
it is because defense counsel is very busy. 
As such, as an accommodation to the defense, the court will ensure ample
time—seven or eight months perhaps—to make sure that the meet and confer will
go forward.  (And, of course, during that
period the court would not entertain an MJOP.) 
The statutory requirement is a real one and it is mandatory, not
optional.  All of that said, this is not
the first demurrer.  The court presumes
that much of the debate has already been had and the court is not assuming a
marathon meet and confer would be needed here. 
The court does note that plaintiff opposes the demurrer, suggesting that
a meet and confer would not have been fruitful.With those preliminary matters resolved, the court
turns to the merits (assuming no continuance based on the meet and confer).The first cause of action is for breach of
contract and it concerns the failure to pay the $400,000 invoice and negotiate
the We Rise 2023 contract.  (FAC,
¶¶37-40.) “The essential elements of a claim of breach of contract, whether
express or implied, are the contract, the plaintiff's performance or excuse for
nonperformance, the defendant's breach, and the resulting damages to the
plaintiff.”  (Green Valley Landowners
Assn. v. City of Vallejo (2015) 241 Cal.App.4th 425, 433.)  In that cause of action, plaintiff asserts
both a written contract and (in the alternative) an implied in fact contract.The court begins with the portion of the claim
predicated on the $400,000 invoice, which is part of the ultimate $590,000
claimed on this cause of action.  In
sustaining the prior demurrer, the court stated that the $400,000 had to be
tied to the contractual language.  The
court believes plaintiff has done so, at least for pleading purposes.  Defendant takes issue with the general
language used in the complaint, but plaintiff is not required to plead every
evidentiary fact, and defendant can take discovery on whether the specific
events were authorized under the general listed heading.  Further, as discussed in more detail below,
there is an ambiguity as to whether plaintiff was supposed to perform material
work on the future projects for which it would be reimbursed, given the
contractual language and parol evidence.As for the claimed damages for We Rise 2023
totaling $590,000, it concerns the $400,000, plus an additional $190,000 that
relates to work done in preparation for We Rise 2023.  In the court’s view, this survives the demurrer
and requires the demurrer to be overruled. 
The court is aware of the rule that “Ordinarily, a general demurrer does
not lie as to a portion of a cause of action, and if any part of a cause of
action is properly pleaded, the demurrer will be overruled.  (Campbell v. Genshlea (1919) 180 Cal.
213, 217.)”  (Fire Ins. Exchange v.
Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452, parallel citations
omitted.)  Defendant argues, and with
some force, that plaintiff cannot overcome a demurrer by jamming what ought to
be separate causes of action into a single cause of action.  That sort of artful pleading ought not
overcome this motion and the court agrees with the defense on that point.  These are separate alleged breaches of the
written contract and a claim of an implied in fact contract.  They ought to have been pled separately.  Accordingly, if the only thing barring the
demurrer was the “partial cause of action” rule, the court would not
overrule.  But there is more.There are multiple statements in the contracts
themselves indicating that the contractual relationship would continue.  First, the January 12, 2022, contract
explicitly identifies the term of the contract to extend to June 30, 2024.  (SAC, Exh. 3, p. 77 of SAC PDF.)  That makes no sense at all if the contract
involved only We Rise 2022 as a matter of law. 
Further, the Revised Statement of Work requires plaintiff to continue
the work through the revised term.  (Id.
at p. 78 [“Contractor will carry forward the Why We Rise campaign efforts
through the term of this Agreement Amendment. 
This includes, but not limited to: All planning and coordination of
Community organizers, Community Partner Leads and Consultants, fulfill all
activities related to public relations, marketing, websites, social media,
etc., to include coordinating with partners, Supervisors, other County
Departments, etc.”].)  The March 9, 2022,
revision is the same and reiterates that plaintiff must “carry forward the Why
We Rise campaign efforts” and adds additional work.  (Id. at p. 82.)  The “Funding” section for FY22-23 and FY23-24
states “TBD” for the amount.  (Id.
at p. 83.)  According to the defense,
that is rock solid evidence that there was no funding available for anything
beyond 2022 absent a separate contract. 
Maybe; maybe not.  It could also
indicate only that the amount of funding was not yet determined but not
whether there would be funding.  Both are
reasonable interpretations of the term. 
For purposes of a demurrer, the court must draw the inference most
favorable to plaintiff.Of course, as defendant points out, there are
also allegations of the opposite view. 
But this is a classic ambiguity in the contractual language that cannot
be determined on a demurrer.  Rather,
ambiguities are often resolved through parol evidence.  The court is familiar with defendant’s
argument that parol evidence is inadmissible given that the contract at issue
was an integrated one.  But that is not
the parol evidence rule.  Put simply, in
the context of an integrated contract, parol evidence can be used to resolve a latent
or patent ambiguity so long as the resolution is one to which the
contract’s words are reasonably susceptible. 
Settled authority puts it thusly: “The interpretation of a contract
involves ‘a two-step process: “First the court provisionally receives (without
actually admitting) all credible evidence concerning the parties' intentions to
determine ‘ambiguity,’ i.e., whether the language is ‘reasonably susceptible’
to the interpretation urged by a party. 
If in light of the extrinsic evidence the court decides the language is
‘reasonably susceptible’ to the interpretation urged, the extrinsic evidence is
then admitted to aid in the second step—interpreting the contract.
[Citation.]”  (Winet v. Price
(1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 1159, 1165.)  The
trial court's determination of whether an ambiguity exists is a question of
law, subject to independent review on appeal. (Ibid.)  The trial court's resolution of an ambiguity
is also a question of law if no parol evidence is admitted or if the parol evidence
is not in conflict.  However, where the
parol evidence is in conflict, the trial court's resolution of that conflict is
a question of fact and must be upheld if supported by substantial evidence.  (Id. at p. 1166.)  Furthermore, “[w]hen two equally plausible
interpretations of the language of a contract may be made . . . parol evidence
is admissible to aid in interpreting the agreement, thereby presenting a question
of fact which precludes summary judgment if the evidence is
contradictory.”  (Walter E. Heller
Western, Inc. v. Tecrim Corp. (1987) 196 Cal.App.3d 149, 158.)’ ”  (Wolf v. Superior Court (2004) 114
Cal.App.4th 1343, 1351, citing WYDA Associates v. Merner (1996) 42
Cal.App.4th 1702, 1710, parallel citations omitted.)Importantly, plaintiff attaches parol evidence
that would help explain the ambiguity in the contracts on whether plaintiff was
supposed to perform work for the 22-23 fiscal year.  There is an email from DMH’s acting director
stating the same: “Good news -we're moving forward with Cause & We Rise for
22/23. Connie will be contacting you to discuss details.  I am looking forward to a wonderful event in
May/2023.” (SAC, Exh. 8.) Thus, the court cannot sustain the demurrer.  This issue is best suited for an evidentiary
motion explaining with evidence if there was any actual ambiguity, how the
parties understood their legal obligations, whether the work claimed actually
matched the contractual language, and whether plaintiff’s claim as to the
entire amount was properly presented in compliance with Government Code section
910 (the $400,000 was properly presented). 
The court understands the old adage that “men must turn square corners
when they deal with the Government.”  (Rock
Island, Arkansas & Louisiana R.R. Co. v. United States (1920) 254 U.S.
141, 143 (Holmes, J.).)  But still, it is
not clear as a pleading matter that the corner was not square.  Finally, defendant contends that the notice was
not adequate.  The notice and amended
notice did talk about the harm from the decision not to go forward with We Rise
2023 and 2024.  There is an issue
properly raised whether that claim was based on a failure to renew the
contract, which does not seem to be at issue in the instant litigation, or a
failure to pay for work done in anticipation of that contract at defendant’s
request, which is the basis of the litigation. 
For pleading purposes, it is ambiguous enough that the court is
reluctant to sustain the demurrer on that basis.  Having said that, however, the court is not
ruling out a later motion that more squarely—and perhaps with
evidence—addresses the issue.Defendant also complains of the alternative cause
of action within this cause of action—implied in fact contract.  The court notes that this is pled in the
alternative only, meaning that if the written contract covers the issue, then
the implied contract cause of action must fail. 
But if the written contract is silent on this point, then the implied
contract is not inconsistent and the rule stating that there cannot be both an express
and an implied contract is no bar. 
Defendant’s major argument is that an implied in fact contract (unlike
an implied at law contract) requires mutual assent—the theory is that the
parties have actually reached an agreement on a contract, it has just never
been uttered in writing or orally. 
According to the defense, it cannot impliedly consent to a contract
under its bylaws and resolutions, and Cause had actual or constructive
knowledge of both.  The argument is not a
weak one, but at the end of the day, whether defendant was given the authority
to request work and impliedly agree to pay for it is one better addressed by
way of evidentiary motion rather than demurrer. 
Given the various indications, it would seem incongruous if plaintiff
could prove that it did work for We Rise 2023 at defendant’s specific request
and under the guise that it was required to do so given that the next contract
was under discussion, but that there was no promise of payment.  To be sure, there is nothing illegal with defendant
asking plaintiff to do work and hope that a contract would be forthcoming and
that absent a later contract, the work would be gratis, but that is the
exception, not the rule and the court is not prepared to say, as a pleading
matter, that the parties did not mutually understand that work defendant
requested would be paid for under any circumstances even if the parties could
not come to terms on a future overall agreement.The demurrer is OVERRULED.In short, defendant might well prevail, and it
took plaintiff some time to plead a cause of action that survived.  But given the current pleading, if defendant
is to prevail it will have to do so by evidentiary motion (like summary
judgment) or at trial.
Defendant has 30 days to answer.
