  Case Number:  21STCV04325    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  I This is
defendant’s motion to re-open discovery. 
The motion is DENIED.
Specifically,
defendant served discovery on plaintiff—RFA’s, FI’s, SI’s, and RFP’s.  Defendant is (understandably) unhappy with
plaintiff’s responses.  However, the
discovery cut off has come and gone, at least for fact discovery and motions,
and thus defendant seeks leave to re-open discovery so that its motions can be
heard.
A bit of
background is appropriate here.  The
matter had been set for trial on January 8, 2024.  The court had to move that date due to a
conflict in the court’s calendar.  The
court unilaterally moved the date to January 29, 2024, but that date conflicted
with counsel’s schedule.  Because the
court had moved the date without consulting with the parties, the court’s view
was that it had an obligation to accommodate a conflict that the court itself
had created.  Accordingly, when the
parties sought ex parte to continue the trial, the motion to continue
was granted.  At that hearing, the court
asked whether the discovery cut-offs should be extended.  The parties agreed to extend the cut off as
to experts, but defendant objected to extending it for fact discovery.  (Plaintiff wanted to extend.)  The court therefore did not extend the fact
discovery cut off.
Plaintiff
suggests that this ought to end the matter. 
Defendant could have extended their time such that a timely motion to
compel further could have been brought, but defendant chose not to do so and
thus ought not be heard to complain now, or at least plaintiff so states.  Defendant states that it assumed that
plaintiff would respond to the discovery in good faith.  Thus, defendant contends, it might have
rolled the dice that the good faith response would not be everything defendant
wanted, but it did not waive the notion that there would at least be a good
faith response. 
The court
makes a few additional observations.  The
court has reviewed the discovery in question and the responses.  The discovery is hardly earth-shattering.  Much of it is to confirm answers given at
deposition.  Some deals with the scope of
damages—something that presumably was handled during expert discovery (the cut
off to which was extended).  Some of it
goes to plaintiff’s theory of the case, but it is hard to believe that at this
late date defendant does not know what the case is about.  Some of it is to identify witnesses and
documents, but the FSC process will deal with that (and the FSC is set for May
13, 2024) and the court believes it is largely duplicative of discovery already
propounded.  Further given the court’s
prior admonition concerning the FSC process, the court assumes that the parties
have already begun that process, and that defendant knows the bulk of this
information anyway.  (If it turns out
that plaintiff is holding back an ambush, the court will recall this episode
and ensure that the defense is not prejudiced unduly.)  In short, the discovery just isn’t very
important—not important enough to re-open the motion cut off.  But the court is also aware that defendant is
right about the bad faith of the responses. 
They are in obvious bad faith, and but for the cut off the motions would
almost certainly be granted.  Plaintiff’s
tactic, it seems to the court, was to delay responses and then take advantage
of the cut off to stonewall the defense. 
That is a sharp practice.  It
might well be a practice that the rules allow, but it is a sharp one
nonetheless.
The bottom
line is that the motion is DENIED, plaintiff’s request for sanctions is
DENIED.  Plaintiff, through its somewhat
transparent conduct, has lost more than it won today.