 Case Number:  22SMCV01207    Hearing Date:   March 5, 2024    Dept:  I This is an ex parte application to continue the trial
date.  The basis is that plaintiffs’
counsel’s personal situation has made depositions more difficult and that they
cannot therefore be completed in time. 
Defendant also states that individual board members have recently been
named as defendants and that one defendant—currently in default—has moved to
have the default vacated.  Defendant
seeks a 4 month continuance of the trial and related cut off dates.  The court does not have an indication as to
the position of any other party.
The trial date in this case was set on May 18, 2023.  The court warned the parties at that time
that a lot needed to be done.  The court
is somewhat puzzled as to why discovery is not complete or nearly so given that
it has been almost a year.  Further,
mediation was supposed to have been completed by September 30, 2023, but it has
apparently not yet occurred.
The court therefore begins with little understanding as to
why diligent counsel could not have completed the work in the time
allotted.  But the court is also aware
that plaintiffs’ counsel’s situation has changed somewhat unexpectedly earlier
this year, which put a fly in the proverbial ointment.  The problem is not one where plaintiff bears
fault or blame, but neither does the defense. 
And the discovery that still needs to be done is important
discovery—depositions of the actual parties.
The court is also aware that after the trial date was set,
various cases were deemed related, which makes this a bit more complicated than
it might otherwise be.  That could
explain the delay in mediation at least. 
And there is the defaulted party now seeking relief.
Overall, the court will discuss the matter with
counsel.  However, the court’s trial
calendar is such that a trial in October is unlikely.  The court will discuss available trial dates
with counsel, and will also note that it will not bump a trial in favor of this
one.  In other cases, counsel have
diligently prepared to be ready when the court so ordered.  The court cannot “reward” that by an
involuntary continuance.  Thus, whatever
new day is chosen, this case will have last priority on the court’s trial docket.  That is just a necessity of life.  Further, this case has generated an unusual
number of motions, most of which the court believes could have and should have
been resolved without court intervention. 
The court is reluctant to extend the various dates if all it does is
serve as an excuse for another few dozen motions.  It could be that the time has come for trial
and the chips will simply fall where they may.