  Case Number:  22SMCV02588    Hearing Date:   September 4, 2024    Dept:  207 TENTATIVE
RULING 
 



DEPARTMENT


207




HEARING DATE


September
  4, 2024




CASE NUMBER


22SMCV02588




MOTION


Motion
  to Quash Subpoena




MOVING PARTY


Plaintiff
  Adam Thomas Wolf




OPPOSING PARTY


Defendant
  Antonio Gomez Pineda, Jr.



 
MOTION
 
This action stems from a motor vehicle collision.  Plaintiff Adam Thomas Wolf (“Plaintiff”)
moves to quash the business records subpoena Defendant Antonio Gomez Pineda,
Jr. (“Defendant”) served on Factor’s Famous Deli and requests monetary
sanctions in connection with the motion. 
Defendant filed an untimely opposition to the motion.[1]
 
ANALYSIS
 
Motion to Quash
 
If a subpoena requires the production of documents, the court may
quash the subpoena entirely or modify it. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd.
(a).) 
 
Defendant’s business records subpoena seeks “any and all employment
records, wage records, personnel records, attendance records, employment
applications, W-2’s, W-4’s, contracts, 1099’s, resumes, payroll records,
vacation schedule, sick leave, leave of absence records, insurance records,
benefits, evaluations and any other records, including but not limited to any
records/documents that may be stored digitally and/or electronically pertaining
to the employment of Adam Wolf aka: Adam Thomas Wolf, DOB: 3/28/1963” for the
period from 05/06/2014 to present.  (Ahn
Decl., Ex. 1.)  
 
Plaintiff challenges the request on the grounds that (1) it invades
Plaintiff’s constitutional right to privacy; and (2) the request is not
narrowly tailored.
 
            Constitutional
Right to Privacy
 
In support of the first argument, Plaintiff cites to Board of
Trustees v. Superior Court (1981) 119 Cal.App.3d 516, 524-526 as standing
for the proposition that because Plaintiff’s privacy rights are implicated by
the documents in his employment files, Defendant has a burden to demonstrate a
particularized need and direct relevance to the claim or defense.  That aspect of Board of Trustees was
disapproved by the California Supreme Court in 2017 in Williams v. Superior
Court (2017) 3 Cal.5th 531, which held the burden is on the party asserting
the privacy interest to establish the extent and seriousness of the prospective
invasion, against which the Court weighs the countervailing interests
identified in Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn. (1994) 7
Cal.4th 1.  The countervailing factors
identified in Hill are (1) the reasonable expectation of privacy under
the circumstances; and (2) the seriousness of the privacy invasion.
 
Plaintiff does not offer any argument or evidence establishing that
the requested employee personnel records are an extensive or serious violation
of Plaintiff’s privacy rights.  In the
absence of any such argument or evidence, the Court assumes the employment
records at issue contain ordinary records of Plaintiff’s employment dates, time
off requests, salary, and discipline (if any), etc.  Thus, Plaintiff has not provided any evidence
that the disclosure of these records would constitute a serious invasion of
Plaintiff’s privacy.
 
Further, Plaintiff put these records directly at issue by seeking
damages for lost wages and loss of earnings capacity.  As such, Plaintiff has a diminished reasonable
expectation of privacy in preventing the disclosure of the employment related records.
 
Therefore, the Court does not find that Plaintiff’s minimal privacy
interest in his employment records prevents the requested discovery.
 
            Overbreadth
 
Second, Plaintiff argues that he has agreed to produce personnel file
records from November 16, 2020 – one month prior to the vehicle collision – to
the present, but the request for records dating back to May 6, 2014 is not
narrowly tailored to Defendant’s need. 
The Court disagrees that one month of records preceding the collision is
sufficient.  Because Plaintiff seeks
damages for loss of income and loss of earnings capacity, Plaintiff’s
employment records in the years immediately preceding the collision will reveal
any fluctuations in Plaintiff’s ordinary income and earnings capacity over
time.  
 
That said, the Court agrees that six and a half years of records
preceding the collision appears excessive. 
As such, the Court limits the time period of the requested discovery to December
16, 2017 – three years immediately preceding the December 16, 2020 collision
date – to the present.
 
Monetary Sanctions
 
In ruling on a motion to quash, “the court may in its discretion award
the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the
motion, including reasonable attorney's fees, if the court finds the motion was
made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification or that one
or more of the requirements of the subpoena was oppressive.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 1987.2, subd. (a).)
 
            Because
the Court grants in part and denies in part Plaintiff’s motion, the Court finds
that neither party acted without substantial justification.  As such, sanctions are not warranted.  
 
Therefore, the Court declines
to award monetary sanctions.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER
 
Therefore, the Court grants in part and denies in part Plaintiff’s
Motion to Quash.  The Court orders
compliance with the subject Subpoena, but the subject Subpoena shall be limited
to the time period of December 16, 2017 to the present.  Plaintiff’s motion is denied in all other
respects including Plaintiff’s request for monetary sanctions.  
 
Plaintiff shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file the
notice with a proof of service forthwith. 
 
 
 
DATED:  September 4, 2024                                                 ___________________________
                                                                                          Michael
E. Whitaker
                                                                                          Judge
of the Superior Court
 


