  Case Number:  24LBCV00216    Hearing Date:   July 17, 2024    Dept:  S25 BackgroundOn February 1, 2024, Plaintiff filed a complaint against Defendants Mercedes-Benz USA, LLC (“Defendant Mercedes”), Calibers Motors, Inc, and Does 1 to 10, alleging violations of the Song-Beverely Consumer Warranty Act (“SBA”) and negligent repair. Plaintiff alleges that on or about May 5, 2022, he purchased a 2022 Mercedes-Benz Metris, VIN No.: W1YV0BEY7N3960756 (“Subject Vehicle”) (Compl., ¶ 9.) Plaintiff alleges he presented the Subject Vehicle approximately four times for “jerking upon shifting gears” and/or “delayed and rough gear shifts.” Plaintiff alleges the Subject Vehicle was delivered to him with serious defects and nonconformities to warranty. (Compl., ¶¶ 11-17.) Plaintiff insists all causes of action arise out of warranty and repair obligations of Defendant Mercedes as the warranty was issued by Defendant Mercedes and not the selling dealership.Defendant Mercedes now brings this motion to compel to arbitration.Request for Judicial NoticeDefendant Mercedes’s Request for Judicial Notice and Plaintiff Requests for Judicial Notice are granted pursuant to Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).Evidentiary ObjectionsPlaintiff’s evidentiary objection to the Declaration of Ali Ameripour is Overruled.Legal StandardsThe Federal Arbitration Act (“FAA”) creates a general presumption in favor of arbitration and requires the enforcement of a written agreement to arbitrate. (Gilmer v. Interstate/Johnson Lane Corp. (1961) 500 U.S. 20, 24-25.) A defendant only needs to prove, by a preponderance of the evidence, that an agreement to arbitrate the plaintiff’s claims exist. (See, e.g., Condee v. Longwood Mgmt. Corp. (2001) 88 Cal.App.4th 215, 218-219.) To satisfy this burden, a defendant may simply supply a copy of the agreement or recite its terms in its petition to compel arbitration. (Id. at p. 219.) With the FAA, 9 U.S.C. §1, et seq., “Congress declared a national policy favoring arbitration and withdrew the power of the States to require a judicial forum for the resolution of claims which the contracting parties agreed to resolve by arbitration.” (Southland Corp. v. Keating (1984) 465 U.S. 1, 10.) Notably, the burden is on the party opposing arbitration to proffer evidencedemonstrating that such an agreement is invalid. (See, e.g., Green Treen Fin. Corp. v. Randolph (2000) 531 U.S. 79, 91-92.)Enforceability of an arbitration agreement is determined pursuant to the FAA, which requires that: (1) parties have entered into a written arbitration agreement, (2) there exists an independent basis for federal jurisdiction, and (3) the underlying transaction involves interstate commerce. (Cosmotek Mumessillik Ve Ticaret Ltd Sirkketi v. Cosmotek USA, Inc. (D.Conn.1996) 942 21 F.Supp. 757, 759.) If the transaction between the parties does not implicate interstate commerce, the court applies the forum state’s substantive laws. (Howard Fields & Associates v. Grand Wailea Co. (D.Hawaii 1993) 848 F.Supp. 890, 893.)“California law reflects a strong public policy in favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive method for resolving disputes. To further that policy, Code of Civil Procedure, section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies. Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a party waives the right to arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the arbitration agreement; and (3) pending litigation with a third party creates the possibility of conflicting rulings on common factual or legal issues.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2; Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967.) Similarly, public policy under federal law favors arbitration and the fundamental principle that arbitration is a matter of contract and that courts must place arbitration agreements on an equal footing with other contracts and enforce them according to their terms. (AT&T Mobility LLC v. Concepcion (2011) 56 U.S. 333, 339.)A motion to compel arbitration or stay proceedings must state verbatim the provisions providing for arbitration or must have a copy of them attached. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1330.)Arbitration ProvisionDefendant moves to compel arbitration pursuant to the Retail Installment Sales Contract (RISC) entered into with the dealership and has provided the verbatim provisions providing for arbitration. (RISC, Exhibit 2 to Decl. of Ali Ameripour). The arbitration provision upon which defendant relies appears in the RISC and provides as follows:1. EITHER YOU OR WE MAY CHOOSE TO HAVE ANY DISPUTE BETWEEN US DECIDED BY ARBITRATION AND NOT IN COURT OR BY JURY TRIAL.2. IF A DISPUTE IS ARBITRATED, YOU WILL GIVE UP YOUR RIGHT TO PARTICIPATE AS A CLASS REPRESENTATIVE OR CLASS MEMBER ON ANY CLASS CLAIM YOU MAY HAVE AGAINST US INCLUDING ANY RIGHT TO CLASS ARBITRATION OR ANY CONSOLIDATION OF INDIVIDUAL ARBITRATIONS.3. DISCOVERY AND RIGHTS TO APPEAL IN ARBITRATION ARE GENERALLY MORE LIMITED THAN IN A LAWSUIT, AND OTHER RIGHTS THAT YOU AND WE WOULD HAVE IN COURT MAY NOT BE AVAILABLE IN ARBITRATION.The arbitration agreement further states:Any claim or dispute, whether in contract, tort, statute or otherwise including the interpretation and scope of this Arbitration Provision, and the arbitrability of the claim or dispute), between you and us or our employees, agents, successors or assigns, which arises out of or relates to your credit application, purchase or condition of this vehicle, this contract or any resulting transaction or relationship (including any such relationship with third parties who do not sign this contract) shall, at your or our election, be resolved by neutral, binding arbitration and not by a court action [….] Any arbitration under this Arbitration Provision shall be governed by the Federal Arbitration Act (9 U.S.C. § 1 et. seq.) and not by any state law concerning arbitration.” (RISC, Ameripour Decl., Exh. 2, p. 5.)Equitable Estoppel and Third-Party BeneficiaryDefendant is not a signatory of the RISC. Defendant argues that even though it's a non-signatory to the agreement, it nonetheless has standing to enforce the arbitration agreement under the doctrine of equitable estoppel and/or on the grounds of being a third-party beneficiary to the sales agreement.A nonsignatory may enforce an arbitration clause on grounds of equitable estoppel when the claims against the nonsignatory are “dependent upon, or founded in and inextricably intertwined with,” the obligations imposed by the agreement containing the arbitration clause. (Goldman v. KPMG LLP (2009) 173 Cal. App. 4th 209, 217-218; Marenco v. DirectTV LLC (2015) 233 Cal. App. 4th 1409, 1419-1420.) Estoppel may also apply when someone attempts to exploit her own wrong. (Hernandez v. Meridian Management Services, LLC (2023) 87 Cal.App.5th 1214, 1219.)Defendant Mercedes urges the court to follow the 3rd District Court of Appeal’s holding in Felisalda v. FCA US LLC (2020) 53 Cal. App. 5th 486. In Felisalda, the appellate court held: “The Felisildas’ claim against FCA directly relates to the condition of the vehicle that they allege to have violated warranties they received as a consequence of the sales contract. Because the Felisildas expressly agreed to arbitrate claims arising out of the condition of the vehicle – even against third party nonsignatories to the sales contract – they are estopped from refusing to arbitrate their claim against FCA. Consequently, the trial court properly ordered the Felisildas to arbitrate their claim against FCA.” Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal. App. 5th at p. 497.Plaintiff urges the court to follow the 2nd Appellate District’s rulings in Ford Motor Warranty (Ochoa) 89 Cal.App.5th 1324 and Montemayor v. Ford Motor Company (2023) 92 Cal. App. 5th 958 (Montemayor). In Ford Warranty (Ochoa), the appellate court disagreed with Felisalda’s equitable estoppel analysis. The court reasoned “the Felisilda plaintiffs and the dealer agreed in their sale contract to arbitrate disputes between them about the condition of the vehicle does not equitably estop the plaintiffs from asserting FCA has no right to demand arbitration. Equitable estoppel would apply if the plaintiffs had sued FCA based on the terms of the sale contract yet denied FCA could enforce the arbitration clause in that contract. That is not what the plaintiffs did in Felisilda. The plaintiffs’ breach of warranty claims against FCA in Felisilda were not based on their sale contracts with the dealers. We disagree with Felisilda that “‘the sales contract was the source of [FCA's] warranties at the heart of this case.’” Ford Warranty (Ochoa), supra, 89 Cal. App. 5th at p. 1334 (citing Felisilda, supra, 53 Cal.App.5th at pp. 495–496, 266 Cal.Rptr.3d 640.) More recently in Montemayor, the Second Appellate District confirmed its view that equitable estoppel did not apply in a “buyer versus manufacturer” Song-Beverly action. Like the holding in Ford Warranty (Ochoa), the Montemayor court’s ruling was based on the view that the statutory warranty claims did not arise from the RISC.Third party beneficiaries may be entitled to enforce arbitration clauses in contracts entered into on their behalf, even if not named in the agreement. (Macaulay v. Norlander (1992) 12 Cal. App. 4th 1, 7-8.) Nonsignatories seeking to compel arbitration as third party beneficiaries must prove that they are in fact third party beneficiaries of the agreement that provides for arbitration. This requires proof that the subject agreement is applicable to the controversy that is the subject of the litigation. Jones v. Jacobson (2011) 195 Cal. App. 4th 1, 22 (petition to compel arbitration denied because of lack of proof.) Moreover, the third party's right to enforce an arbitration provision is predicated on proving the contracting parties' intent. (City of Hope v. Bryan Cave, L.L.P. (2002) 102 Cal. App. 4th 1356, 1369.) The third party must show that (1) the third party must in fact benefit from the contract; (2) a motivating purpose of the contracting parties was to provide a benefit to the third party; and (3) permitting the third party to enforce the contract is consistent with the objectives of the contract and the reasonable expectations of the contracting parties. (Goonewardene v. ADP, LLC (2019) 6 Cal. 5th 817, 830.)In Ford Warranty (Ochoa), the court held that parenthetical language referring to third-party nonsignatories was a “delineation of the subject matter of claims the purchasers and dealers agreed to arbitrate,” but the purchasers clearly agreed only to arbitrate disputes between “‘you and us,’ ” that is, with the dealership. (Ford Warranty (Ochoa), supra, at pp. 1334-1335.) In other words, “[t]he ‘third party’ language in the arbitration clause means that if a purchaser asserts a claim against the dealer (or its employees, agents, successors or assigns) that relates to one of these third-party transactions, the dealer can elect to arbitrate that claim. It says nothing of binding the purchaser to arbitrate with the universe of unnamed third parties.” (Id. at p. 1335.)Tentative RulingThis court recognizes there is a split of opinion among the appellate courts and these cited cases are pending review by the California Supreme Court. Where a split of opinion exists at the appellate court level a trial court must choose which ruling to follow. A court is not obliged to follow the ruling from its own District. (Auto Equity Sales, Inc. v. Superior Court of Santa Clara County (1962) 57 Cal. 2d 450.)This Court opts to follow the Second Appellate District’s holdings in Ford Warranty (Ochoa) and Montemayor. Accordingly, the court finds the doctrine of equitable estopel is inapplicable to this matter. Here, Plaintiff does not allege breaches of the sales agreement (RISC) but rather statutory breaches of warranty. Nor does Plaintiff attempt to enjoy the benefits of the sales contract or enforce express terms of the RISC while repudiating his obligations to arbitrate. The court also finds that Defendant Mercedes has not demonstrated that it is a third-party beneficiary (e.g. employee, agent, successor or assign of the dealership) covered by the arbitration provisions in the RISC.Defendant’s Motion to Compel Arbitration is DENIED.