 Case Number:  23PSCV01497    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Sellers  Funding International Portfolio LTD. v. Cosmic Cell Productions, LLC, et al.Motion  to Strike the Answer of Defendant Cosmic Cell Productions, LLC TENTATIVE RULING            The Court  GRANTS the motion to strike. The answer filed on June 16, 2023 is stricken as  to Defendant Cosmic Cell Productions, LLC. Defendant Cosmic Cell Productions,  LLC shall have until October 31, 2023 to retain counsel and file an Answer to the  Complaint. If no Answer is filed on behalf of Defendant Cosmic Cell  Productions, LLC by an attorney licensed to practice law in California, then  Plaintiff may request to enter a default as to Defendant Cosmic Cell  Productions, LLC.             Plaintiff is  ordered to give notice and provide proof of service of same within five  calendar days of the Court’s order. BACKGROUNDThis  is a breach of contract case. On May 17, 2023, Plaintiff Sellers Funding  International Portfolio LTD. (Plaintiff) filed this action against Defendants  Cosmic Cell Productions, LLC (Cosmic), Marcellus Hannah II (Hannah)  (collectively, Defendants) and Does 1 to 5, alleging one cause of action for  breach of contract. On  August 23, 2023, Plaintiff filed the instant motion to strike the answer filed  on June 16, 2023 as to Defendant Cosmic. The motion is unopposed. LEGAL  STANDARD – Motion to Strike“Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may  serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this  time limitation shall not apply to motions specified in subdivision (e).”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).) “The court may, upon a motion made  pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it  deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted  in any  pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed  in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the  court.” (Id., § 436.) DISCUSSIONMeet and Confer Per Code of  Civil Procedure section 435.5, subdivision (a), the parties were required to  meet and confer before bringing this motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5,  subd. (a).) The Court finds Plaintiff’s efforts to meet and confer to be insufficient.  Nowhere in Plaintiff’s declaration does he indicate that he made any attempts  to meet and confer with Defendant Cosmic before bringing this motion. (See  generally, Sayer Decl.) Nevertheless, the Court may not deny the motion to  strike for failure to adequately meet and confer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5,  subd. (a)(4).) The Court will still consider the motion to strike but  admonishes Plaintiff to comply with these requirements going forward.            Analysis            “’As  a general rule, it is well-established in California that a corporation cannot  represent itself in a court of record either in propria persona or through an  officer or agent who is not an attorney.’ [Citations.]” (Caressa Camille, Inc. v. Alcoholic Beverage Control Appeals Bd.  (2002) 99 Cal.App.4th 1094, 1101.) Plaintiff  contends the answer filed on June 16, 2023 should be stricken as to Defendant  Cosmic because it was filed by Defendant Hannah, who is not an attorney. (Motion,  Ex. 1.) The Court previously discovered this issue itself and set an OSC re Why  the Court Should not Strike the Answer as to Defendant Cosmic for October 11,  2023. (Minute Order (6/22/23).) The Court notes that the Defendants’ answer was  signed by Defendant Hannah and contains no indication that Defendant Hannah is  a licensed attorney. (Motion, Ex. 1.) The Court further takes judicial notice of  its file which shows that Defendant Cosmic currently has no attorney of record.  (See Evid. Code § 452, subd. (d); see Foster v. Gray (1962) 203  Cal.App.3d 434, 439 [courts may take judicial notice of their own records].)  Additionally, given Defendant Cosmic’s lack of opposition to the motion, the  Court finds Plaintiff’s contentions to be meritorious. (Holden v. City of  San Diego (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 504, 418; C. Opposing the Motion—and  Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C,  ¶ 9:105.10.) Based  on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS the motion to strike. The answer filed on  June 16, 2023 is hereby STRICKEN as to Defendant Cosmic. CONCLUSION            The Court GRANTS  the motion to strike. The answer filed on June 16, 2023 is stricken as to  Defendant Cosmic Cell Productions, LLC. Defendant Cosmic Cell Productions, LLC  shall have until October 31, 2023 to retain counsel and file an Answer to the  Complaint. If no Answer is filed on behalf of Defendant Cosmic Cell  Productions, LLC by an attorney licensed to practice law in California, then  Plaintiff may request to enter a default as to Defendant Cosmic Cell  Productions, LLC.             Plaintiff is  ordered to give notice and provide proof of service of same within five  calendar days of the Court’s order.