  Case Number:  23PSCV00731    Hearing Date:   October 11, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME:  Bin  Xu, et al. v. TMD Shops LLC, et al. Defendants  TMD Shops LLC, Yuan Zhou and Xiaoyu Li’s Demurrer to Complaint  TENTATIVE  RULING The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the First and Second Causes of  Action with leave to amend. The Court OVERRULES the demurrer in all other  respects.  Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within  five days of this order.  BACKGROUND This is a business dispute. On March  13, 2023, Plaintiffs Bin Xu (Xu), individually and derivatively on behalf of  X-Planet LLC, and Shenzhen FAMO Technology Co., Ltd (FAMO) (collectively, Plaintiffs)  filed this action against Defendants TMD Shops LLC (TMD), Yuan Zhou (Zhou),  Xiaoyu Li (Li) (collectively, Moving Parties), X-Planet LLC (X-Planet), and  Does 1 through 25, alleging causes of action for conversion (derivative),  breach of fiduciary duties (direct), breach of fiduciary duties (derivative), member’s  right of inspection & accounting (direct), fraud – intentional  misrepresentations (direct), fraud – negligent misrepresentations (direct),  common law trademark infringement, declaratory relief, accounting (derivative),  and breach of contract.  On June 20, 2023, Moving Parties  filed the instant demurrer to the complaint. On July 12, 2023, Plaintiffs  opposed. On October 4, 2023, Moving Parties replied.  LEGAL  STANDARD A demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of  other pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or  content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or  cross-complaint). (Code Civ.  Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116  Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function of the demurrer to challenge the  truthfulness of the complaint; and for purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all  facts pleaded in the complaint are assumed to be true. (Id.)    A demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on  the face of the pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading  that are judicially noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,  318; Donabedian, supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other  extrinsic evidence can be considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson  (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868, 881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in  memorandum supporting demurrer]; see also Afuso  v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862 [disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal  v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287] [error to consider  contents of release not part of court record].)    A demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint”  itself is incomplete or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian  North Bay, Inc. v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The  “face of the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that  are incorporated by reference into the complaint; or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.  Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s  Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as  surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”])    A demurrer can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire  cause of action. (Poizner v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148  Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redev.  Agency (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 1028,  1046.)    REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE             The Court DENIES Defendants’ request for judicial  notice. Defendants have not provided sufficient information to demonstrate that  the proffered 2022 K-1 is not reasonably subject to dispute and is  "capable of immediate and accurate determination by resort to sources of  reasonably indisputable accuracy." (Evid. Code § 452, subd. (h).)  DISCUSSION Meet and  Confer Per Code of Civil Procedure section 430.41,  subdivision (a), Moving Parties were required to meet and confer before  bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) The Court finds  Moving Parties’ efforts to meet and confer to be sufficient. (Goerlinger Decl.,  ¶ 2.)            First, Third, Eighth and  Ninth Causes of Action – Lack of Standing             Corporations  Code section 17709.2 “requires both ‘contemporaneous’ membership—meaning the  party seeking to bring a derivative claim was a member in the LLC at the time  of the challenged transaction (or became a member by gaining an interest from a  party who was a member at the time of the transaction)—and ‘continuous’  membership—meaning the party was a member throughout the litigation of a  derivative claim.” (Sirott v. Superior Ct. of Contra Costa Cnty.  (2022) 78 Cal.App.5th 371, 381-382.)  Moving Parties contend  Plaintiff Xu lacks standing to assert the First, Third, Eighth and Ninth Causes  of Action on the grounds that Xu was not a member of X-Planet at the time the Complaint  was filed and is not a member now. Moving Parties cite to X-Planet’s 2022  Schedule K-1 to support this contention. (Request for Judicial Notice, Ex. A.) The  Court disagrees.              Plaintiffs  allege in the Complaint that Xu is a member of X-Planet with a 36% interest  therein. (Compl., ¶¶ 1, 21.) Since this is a demurrer, the Court assumes the  allegations of the Complaint to be true. (See Donabedian,  supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 976.) Further, Defendants seek to introduce  evidence outside of the Complaint and which is not the proper subject of judicial  notice. Further, even if the Court had granted Moving Parties’ request  for judicial notice, it could not take judicial notice of the truth of the  factual matters asserted in X-Planet’s 2022 Schedule K-1. (Dominguez, supra, 87 Cal.App.5th 389, 400.)  To the extent there are any  conflicting allegations within the Complaint itself, those are questions of  fact not to be resolved on demurrer. (See TracFone  Wireless, Inc. v. County of Los Angeles (2008) 163 Cal.App.4th 1359, 1368 [“Questions of fact may be resolved on demurrer only  when there is only one legitimate inference to be drawn from the allegations of  the complaint. [Citation.]”]) The Court does not find sufficient allegations in  the Complaint to conclude as a matter of law that Xu was not a member of  X-Planet during the relevant period in question.  Accordingly,  the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the First, Third, Eighth and Ninth Causes  of Action in the Complaint brought on the grounds that Plaintiff Xu lacks  standing.  First Cause  of Action – Conversion Plaintiff Xu brings a  derivative claim for conversion against Moving Parties.  A claim for conversion  requires pleading “‘(a) plaintiff's ownership or  right to possession of personal property, (b) defendant's disposition  of property in a manner inconsistent with plaintiff's property rights, and  (c) resulting damages.’” (Foster v. Sexton (2021) 61 Cal.App.5th 998,  1020-1021.) A conversion claim for money must specify a specific sum at issue.  (Haigler v. Donnelly (1941) 18 Cal.2d 674, 681.)  Moving Parties contend  Plaintiff Xu’s First cause of action for conversion fails because Plaintiff has  not alleged a specific identifiable sum and has otherwise only alleged  conclusory allegations. The Court agrees.  Plaintiff Xu contends that he  alleges a specific sum, namely a balance owed of $2,557,213.42 for products  sold but not paid, incorporated into the conversion claim. (See Opp., p. 5:7-18;  Compl., ¶23.) However, this allegation does not salvage Plaintiff’s conversion  claim which is devoid of any specific identifiable sum. A generalized claim for  money is not a proper subject for conversion; the tort is historically limited  to identifiable, personal property. (See Voris v. Lampert (2019) 7  Cal.5th 1141, 1150.) As such, “[m]oney cannot be the subject of an action for  conversion unless a specific sum capable of identification is involved. [W]here  the money or fund is not identified as a specific thing the action is to be  considered as one upon contract or for debt'... —but 'not for conversion."  (Id. at 1151; internal quotations and citations omitted.) “[A] cause of  action for conversion of money can be stated only where a defendant interferes  with the plaintiff's possessory interest in a specific, identifiable sum; the  simple failure to pay money owed does not constitute conversion.” (Id.;  internal quotations and citations omitted.) Here, Plaintiff Xu’s incorporated  specific sum of money allegations are nothing more than a failure to pay money  owed for goods sold.  Further, the other  allegations contained in the First cause of action are too vague to support a  claim for conversion. The First cause of action does not refer to a specific  transaction, a specific source of funds, a specific date or timeframe of the  funds being received, or the specific amount. Presently, the pleading is  insufficient to differentiate the situation from a generalized claim for  money-damages.  The Complaint also fails to  allege facts sufficient to state the other elements required for a cause of  action for conversion. The Court agrees with Moving Parties that the Complaint  does not allege facts showing a property interest owned by X-Planet for  purposes of conversion. Instead, it alleges a property interest owned by FAMO.  Specifically, the Complaint alleges that X-Planet still has not paid FAMO $2,557,213.42  for products sold. (Compl., ¶ 23.) Based on these allegations, FAMO would be  the injured party, not X-Planet. However, FAMO is not alleging a cause of  action for conversion here. Rather, Xu is bringing this claim derivatively on  behalf of X-Planet. (Compl., ¶ 23; Id., 10:24.)  For these reasons, the Court  SUSTAINS the demurrer to the First Cause of Action with leave to amend.  Second Cause of Action –  Breach of Fiduciary Duty Plaintiff Xu brings this  action individually for breach of fiduciary duty against Defendant Zhou.  “In a member-managed  LLC, each member owes a duty of  loyalty and a duty of care to the LLC and to the other members.  [Corps.C. § 17704.09(a); see Sandy v. McClure (ND CA 2009) 676 F.Supp.2d 866, 883  (applying Calif. law); see also American Master Lease LLC v. Idanta Partners, Ltd.  (2014) 225 Cal.App.4th 1451, 1480 & fns. 18 & 19 (decided under prior  law).]  In a manager-managed  LLC, each manager owes a duty of  loyalty and a duty of care to the LLC and the members. Members who are not managers are  relieved of the duties of loyalty and care. [Corps.C. § 17704.09(f)(1), (3);  see Feresi  v. The Livery, LLC (2015) 232 Cal.App.4th 419, 425-426 (decided  under prior law).]”  (D. Management, Cal. Prac. Guide  Pass--Through Entities Ch. 6-D, italics in original.)  Moving  Parties contend the Complaint fails to state a cause of action for breach of  fiduciary duty by reiterating the argument from above that Xu is not a member  of X-Planet. For the reasons set forth above, the Court rejects this argument.  However, Moving  Parties also contend that the claim fails because the cause of action alleges  harm to X-Planet not to Xu, citing Paclink Communications  Internat. v. Superior Court (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 958,  964 (“Because members of the LLC hold no direct ownership interest in the  company's assets (Corp. Code, § 17300), the members cannot be directly injured  when the company is improperly deprived of those assets.”) The Court went on to  state: "It is a general rule that a corporation which suffers damages  through wrongdoing by its officers and directors must itself bring the action  to recover the losses thereby occasioned, or if the corporation fails to bring  an action, suit may be filed by a stockholder acting derivatively on behalf of  the corporation. An individual [stockholder] may not maintain an action in his  own right . . . for destruction of or diminution in the value of the stock. . .  ." (Id.; internal quotations and citation omitted). The Court  agrees that Xu only alleges harm to X-Planet but fails to allege facts showing  how he personally suffered harm from the alleged breaches of fiduciary duty.  Therefore, the Court SUSTAINS  the demurrer to the Second Cause of Action with leave to amend.  Fourth Cause of Action –  Member’s Right of Inspection & Accounting Plaintiff Xu brings this individual claim  against Defendant Zhou.  “Each  member, manager, and transferee has the  right, upon reasonable request, for purposes reasonably related to the interest  of that person as a member, manager, or transferee,  to each of the following: (1) To inspect and copy during normal business hours  any of the records required to be maintained pursuant to Section 17701.13. (2) To obtain in writing from the limited liability  company, promptly after becoming available, a copy of the limited liability  company's federal, state, and local income tax returns for each year.”  (Corp. Code § 17704.10, subd. (b).)              Moving  Parties contend yet again that this cause of action fails because Xu was not a  member. For the same reasons set forth above, the Court disagrees.              Therefore,  the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Fourth Cause of Action.            Seventh Cause of Action – Common Law Trademark  Infringement             Plaintiff  FAMO brings this cause of action for common law trademark infringement against Defendants  Zhou, Li, and TMD.              Under  California common law, to state a claim for trademark infringement a plaintiff  must allege (1) existence of prior and continuous use of a trade name in such a  way that a secondary meaning is acquired, (2) subsequent use of a confusingly  similar trade name by the defendant, and (3) likelihood of confusion in the  minds of the public of the defendant's business as that of, or as one  affiliated with, the plaintiff. (Sunset House Distributing Corp. v. Coffee  Dan's, Inc. (1966) 240 Cal.App.2d 748, 753.)              Moving  Parties contend the Complaint fails to allege sufficient facts to state a cause  of action for common law trademark infringement against Defendant Li  specifically, and on the grounds that FAMO licensed the use of the VIBEZ  trademark to X-Planet throughout the United States. Moving Parties also contend  the Complaint is uncertain with respect to this cause of action. The Court disagrees.              While  the Court agrees with Moving Parties that the Complaint contains little to no  allegations directly against Defendant Li with respect to Plaintiff’s common  law trademark infringement cause of action, (see Compl., ¶¶ 18-43, 86-97), the  Court does find that the Complaint contains sufficient allegations to impute  liability to Defendant Li as an alter ego of the other Moving Parties.  Specifically, the Complaint alleges that Zhou and Li are the only members of  TMD, that TMD was a mere shell and conduit through which Zhou and Li carried on  their businesses, that they commingled assets to suit the convenience of Zhou  and Li and to evade creditors, and that TMD did not hold meetings or maintain  records or minutes of any corporate proceedings. (Compl., ¶¶ 6, 16.) These  allegations are admittedly sparse, but the Court construes such allegations  liberally on demurrer. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 452.)              Moreover,  as for the underlying allegations themselves, the Court finds the Complaint  alleges sufficient facts to support Plaintiff FAMO’s common law trademark  infringement claim. First, the Complaint alleges that FAMO owns the VIBEZ mark  and has used it in the Southern California region since January 2021 to sell vaping  devices and nicotine delivery system products. (Compl., ¶ 36, 87.) Second,  Plaintiff FAMO alleges that Zhou and TMD were selling counterfeit products bearing  the VIBEZ mark. (Compl., ¶¶ 30, 40-42.) Again, while the Court does not  necessarily find these allegations to be the most thorough, the Court construes  the allegations liberally at this stage of the litigation. (See Code Civ.  Proc., ¶ 452.)  Third, Moving Parties’ contention that FAMO had  distributed products bearing the VIBEZ mark through X-Planet is unavailing, as it  ignores the allegations that Moving Parties have been selling their own  counterfeit products bearing the VIBEZ mark. (Compl., ¶ 90.) Fourth, the  parties’ arguments regarding the scope of protection afforded to the VIBEZ mark  and whether X-Planet was authorized to use that mark is a question of fact not to  be resolved on a demurrer. (Panterra GP, Inc. v. Superior Court of Kern  County (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th 697, 709.) Finally, the Court does not find the  Complaint to be ambiguous or unintelligible for purposes of uncertainty. (Code  Civ. Proc., § 430.10, subd. (f).)              Based  on the foregoing, the Court OVERRULES the demurrer to the Seventh Cause of  Action.  CONCLUSION The Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the First and Second Causes of  Action with leave to amend. The Court OVERRULES the demurrer in all other  respects. Plaintiffs are ordered to give notice of the Court’s ruling within  five days of this order.