  Case Number:  20STCV06611    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  30 MONIQUE RONALL WILLIAMS, et al. vs VIP TRANSPORTATION & EXECUTIVE SERVICES, LP, et al.Motion for Judgment on the PleadingsTENTATIVEDefendant’s Motion for Judgment on the Pleadings is CONTINUED to allow counsel to file the meet and confer declaration.  Moving party to give notice to pro per and Plaintiff's Counsel who have not been relieved.BackgroundOn February 18, 2020, Plaintiffs Monique Ronall Williams and Angela Shaneen Farr filed a complaint against Defendants VIP Transportation & Executive Services, LP, and Alex Maria, alleging causes of action for negligence, negligence hiring (as to VIP only), and negligent entrustment (as to VIP only), arising out of a vehicle collision that occurred on June 11, 2019.On November 21, 2022, this Court dismissed the complaint against Defendant VIP.On May 15, 2023, Plaintiff Farr dismissed her complaint.On August 24, 2023, this Court granted Defendant Maria’s motion to deem requests for admissions served on Plaintiff Williams admitted. The truth of the matters in the request for admissions, set one, served on Plaintiff were deemed admitted.On November 8, 2023, Defendant Maria filed this motion for judgment on the pleadings. No opposition has been filed.Request for Judicial NoticeDefendant seeks judicial notice of the following items: (1) Plaintiff’s Complaint; (2) Defendant’s Notice of Motion and Motion to Deem Admitted Requests for Admission, Set One, filed on March 22, 2023; (3) The August 24, 2023 Court order granting Defendant’s Motion to Deem Requests for Admission Admitted and establishing that all matters specified in Defendant’s Request for Admissions, Set One, are deemed admitted and true by Plaintiff; and (4) Defendant’s Notice of Ruling re: Motion to Deem Admitted Requests for Admission, Set One filed on August 25, 2023.A court may take judicial notice of the “[r]ecords of (1) any court of this state ....” (Evid. Code, § 452, subd. (d).) Thus, unquestionably, a “court may judicially notice its own records and proceedings in the same case. [Citations.]” (City etc. of San Francisco v. Carraro (1963) 220 Cal.App.2d 509, 527.) Pursuant to Evidence Code §§ 452(d) and 453, Defendant’s request for judicial notice is GRANTED.Legal StandardA defendant may move for judgment on the pleadings where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the complaint or the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438 subd. (c)(1)(B).) A non-statutory motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made any time before or during trial. (Stoops v. Abbassi (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 644, 650.) “Such motion may be made on the same ground as those supporting a general demurrer, i.e., that the pleading at issue fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a legally cognizable claim or defense.” (Ibid.)“In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452; see also Stevens v. Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594, 601.) “When a court evaluates a complaint, the plaintiff is entitled to reasonable inferences from the facts pled.” (Duval v. Board of Tr. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 902, 906.) “In deciding or reviewing a judgment on the pleadings, all properly pleaded material facts are deemed to be true, as well as all facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged.” (Fire Ins. Exch. v. Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.) A motion for judgment on the pleadings normally does not lie as to a portion of a cause of action. (Ibid.) “In the case of either a demurrer or a motion for judgment on the pleadings, leave to amend should be granted if there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action.” (Gami v. Mullikin Medical Ctr. (1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 870, 876.)With the motion for judgment on the pleadings, the moving party shall file and serve a declaration stating either of the following:   (A) The means by which the moving party met and conferred with the party who filed the pleading subject to the motion for judgment on the pleadings, and that the parties did not reach an agreement resolving the claims raised by the motion for judgment on the pleadings.(B) That the party who filed the pleading subject to the motion for judgment on the pleadings failed to respond to the meet and confer request of the moving party or otherwise failed to meet and confer in good faith.(Code Civ. Proc. § 439(a)(3).)DiscussionHere, moving party has not satisfied the meet and confer requirement. The motion is not accompanied by the declaration of counsel, and therefore, does not satisfy the meet and confer requirements under Code of Civil Procedure section 439(a). The Court notes that although the caption for the request for judicial notice states that there is a declaration of Jennifer Hsu filed, there is no such declaration.As such, the Court will continue the hearing on this motion for counsel to meet and confer with Plaintiff’s counsel, and file the required declaration. (The Court notes that although Plaintiff’s counsel’s motion to be relieved was granted, counsel is still Plaintiff’s counsel in this matter as no proof of service of the signed order on Plaintiff has been filed.)___________________________________            

JA’s proposed continuance date:  12/27/2023