 Case Number:  22STCV17276    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  30 RAMIRO GARCIA, AN INDIVIDUAL vs ARCHDIOCESE OF LOS ANGELES EDUCATION & WELFARE CORPORATION, A CALIFORNIA CORPORATION, et al.Judgment on the PleadingsTENTATIVEDefendant the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles, a corporate sole, for and on behalf of San Fernando Mission Cemetery, erroneously sued as Archdiocese of Los Angeles Education & Welfare Corporation’s motion for judgment on the pleadings is GRANTED with 20 days leave to amend.  Moving party to give notice. Legal StandardA defendant may move for judgment on the pleadings where the court has no jurisdiction of the subject of the cause of action alleged in the complaint or the complaint does not state facts sufficient to constitute a cause of action against that defendant. (Code Civ. Proc., § 438 subd. (c)(1)(B).) A non-statutory motion for judgment on the pleadings may be made any time before or during trial. (Stoops v. Abbassi (2002) 100 Cal.App.4th 644, 650.) “Such motion may be made on the same ground as those supporting a general demurrer, i.e., that the pleading at issue fails to state facts sufficient to constitute a legally cognizable claim or defense.” (Ibid.)“In the construction of a pleading, for the purpose of determining its effect, its allegations must be liberally construed, with a view to substantial justice between the parties.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 452; see also Stevens v. Superior Court (1999) 75 Cal.App.4th 594, 601.) “When a court evaluates a complaint, the plaintiff is entitled to reasonable inferences from the facts pled.” (Duval v. Board of Tr. (2001) 93 Cal.App.4th 902, 906.) “In deciding or reviewing a judgment on the pleadings, all properly pleaded material facts are deemed to be true, as well as all facts that may be implied or inferred from those expressly alleged.” (Fire Ins. Exch. v. Superior Court (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 446, 452.) The grounds for a motion for judgment on the pleadings must appear on the face of the challenged complaint or be based on facts which the court may judicially notice. (§ 438(d); Tiffany v. Sierra Sands Unified School Dist. (1980) 103 Cal.App.3d 218, 225.) A motion for judgment on the pleadings normally does not lie as to a portion of a cause of action. (Ibid.) “In the case of either a demurrer or a motion for judgment on the pleadings, leave to amend should be granted if there is any reasonable possibility that the plaintiff can state a good cause of action.” (Gami v. Mullikin Medical Ctr. (1993) 18 Cal.App.4th 870, 876.)Request for Judicial NoticeDefendant’s request for judicial notice of the first amended complaint (FAC) is GRANTED pursuant to Evidence Code Section 452(d).                       DiscussionMeet and ConferThe motion is accompanied by the declaration of Frances M. O’Meara, which satisfies the meet and confer requirements. (Code Civ. Proc. § 439(a)(2).)                 MeritsDefendant the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Los Angeles, a corporate sole, for and on behalf of San Fernando Mission Cemetery, erroneously sued as Archdiocese of Los Angeles Education & Welfare Corporation (Defendant) demurs to Plaintiff’s fourth and fifth causes of action for negligence and negligent hiring, supervision and retention, arguing that they fail to state facts sufficient to constitute causes of action against Defendant.“The elements of a cause of action for negligence are well established. They are (a) a legal duty to use due care; (b) a breach of such legal duty; [and] (c) the breach as the proximate or legal cause of the resulting injury.” (Ladd v. County of San Mateo (1996) 12 Cal.4th 913, 917, internal quotations omitted.) “The first element, duty, may be imposed by law, be assumed by the defendant, or exist by virtue of a special relationship.” (Doe v. United States Youth Soccer Assn., Inc. (2017) 8 Cal.App.5th 1118, 1128, internal quotations omitted.) “[T]he existence of a duty is a question of law for the court.” (Ky. Fried Chicken of Cal. v. Superior Court (1997) 14 Cal.4th 814, 819.) “Breach is the failure to meet the standard of care.” (Coyle v. Historic Mission Inn Corp. (2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 627, 643.) “The element of causation requires there to be a connection between the defendant’s breach and the plaintiff’s injury.” (Id. p. 645.)Here, Plaintiff’s FAC alleges that on May 29, 2020, Plaintiff was at 11160 Stranwood Ave., Mission Hills, CA 91345 for his mother’s funeral, and was tasked to create and/or provide a guest list by Defendants’ employees due to COVID restrictions and limitations. Defendants Edward Zamora and Rogelio Zamora were invited and included on the list. Defendant Rogelio Zamora Jr. was not invited and not included on the guest list. Defendants’ employees JOHN DOE 1 and JOHN DOE 2 allowed and permitted uninvited guests to enter the subject premises. During the funeral service, suddenly and without warning, Plaintiff was physically assaulted by the uninvited guests with such force that Plaintiff suffered injuries and damages. (FAC, ¶¶ 7-8.)Defendants had an affirmative legal duty to use due care to protect Plaintiff against unreasonable risk of harm. (Id., ¶ 33.) Defendants formed a special relationship between the employees and subject premises resulting in the affirmative duty on the employees to take all reasonable steps to protect the occupants of the subject premises and to confirm and/or verify all attendees were included on the guest list required and maintained by Defendants’ employees. (Id., ¶ 34.) Because of the special relationship between Plaintiff and the subject premises, Defendants had a duty to control and/or deny entry to Defendants Edward, Rogelio, and Rogelio Jr. (Id., ¶ 35.)Cause of Action for NegligenceDefendant first argues that the FAC fails to allege facts showing it owed Plaintiff a duty to protect him from the assault. Plaintiff fails to allege that the Cemetery had notice of the prospective assault before it occurred, and Plaintiff fails to allege in what manner the Cemetery formed a special relationship with Plaintiff that created an affirmative duty to protect him from the unforeseeable criminal conduct of third parties.Civil Code section 1714(a) provides that everyone is responsible, not only for the result of his or her willful acts, but also for an injury occasioned to another by his or her want of ordinary care or skill in the management of his or her property or person, except so far as the latter has, willfully or by want of ordinary care, brought the injury upon himself or herself.“[W]hile negligence is ordinarily a question of fact, the existence of a duty is generally a question of law that may be addressed by demurrer. (Paul v. Patton (2015) 235 Cal.App.4th 1088, 1096.) Whether one owes a duty to another must be decided on a case-by-case basis. (Weirum v. RKO General, Inc. (1975) 15 Cal.3d 40, 46.) Every case is governed by the rule of general application that all persons are required to use ordinary care to prevent others from being harmed as a result of their conduct. (Id.)                           An actor whose conduct has not created a risk of physical or emotional harm to another has no duty of care to the other. (Brown v. USA Taekwondo (2021) 11 Cal.5th 204, 214.) Generally, one owes no duty to control the conduct of another, nor to warn those endangered by such conduct unless an exception applies. (Id.) In cases involving third parties, businesses have an affirmative duty to take reasonable steps to secure their premises, as well as adjacent common areas within their control, against reasonably foreseeable criminal acts of third parties. (Delgado v. Trax Bar & Grill, 36 Cal.4th 224, 235.) Additionally, a person may have an affirmative duty to protect the victim of another’s harm if that person has a special relationship with the victim or the person who created the harm. (Regents of University of California v. Superior Court (2018) 4 Cal.5th 607, 619.) A special relationship is one that would give a victim a right to expect protection, such as parent-child relationships, common carrier-passenger relationships, and innkeeper-guest relationships. (Id at p. 620.)Here, Plaintiff’s FAC fails to provide facts showing that Defendant had a duty to protect Plaintiff from the invited and uninvited guests’ conduct. Generally, Defendant has no duty to control the conduct of third parties, nor did it have a duty to warn Plaintiff. The FAC does not allege that there was foreseeable third party criminal conduct on Defendant’s property, such that they needed to take precautionary measures, nor does the FAC contain facts showing that it had a relationship with Plaintiff such that Plaintiff had the right to expect Defendant’s protection. Although the FAC states there was a special relationship between Plaintiff and Defendant, this is conclusory and does not set forth the essential facts with reasonable precision and with sufficient particularity as to Plaintiff’s relationship with Defendant.The fact that Plaintiff had a restricted guest list due to Covid restrictions is insufficient to show Plaintiff had a right to expect protection from Defendant. Therefore, Plaintiff’s FAC fails to state facts sufficient to show Defendant had a duty to protect Plaintiff from the intruders. The motion for judgment on the pleadings is therefore GRANTED on this ground with leave to amend.Cause of Action for Negligent Hiring, Supervision, and RetentionDefendant also demurs to the cause of action for negligent hiring, supervision, and retention on the grounds that it fails to state sufficient facts that Defendant knew or should have known its employees were unfit, or that the employees exhibited a particular risk of harm.A cause of action for negligent hiring, supervision, or retention of an employee requires the following elements: (1) the employer hired employee; (2) the employee was/became unfit or incompetent to perform the work for which he was hired; (3) the employer knew or should have known the employee was/became unfit or incompetent and that this unfitness or incompetence created a particular risk to others; (4) the employee’s unfitness or incompetence harmed plaintiff; and (5) the employer’s negligence in hiring/supervising/ retaining the employee was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff’s harm. (CACI No. 426; see also Federico v. Superior Court (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 1207, 1213-1214.) To establish a cause of action for negligent hiring, retention, or supervision, a plaintiff must show that the employer knew or should have known that hiring or retaining the employee created a particular risk or hazard and that particular harm occurs. (See Z.V. v. County of Riverside (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 889, 902; Doe, supra, 50 Cal.App.4th at 1054.) Negligent hiring, retention, or supervision is a form of direct negligence. (Ibid.)Here, the FAC fails to state facts sufficient to support a cause of action for negligent hiring, supervision and retention. The FAC merely states Defendants should have known that their employees, Does 1 and 2, were incompetent and unfit. The FAC fails to state what risk Does 1 and 2 created, that Defendant knew of the risk, and that the particular harm materialized. Therefore, the FAC fails to state facts sufficient to support a cause of action for negligent hiring, supervision and retention. The motion for judgment on the pleadings is also GRANTED on this ground with leave to amend.