 Case Number:  22STCV21243    Hearing Date:   December 8, 2023    Dept:  30 GUZYALIYA MANNANOVA, AN INDIVIDUAL vs TRADER JOE'S COMPANY, INC., A CALIFORNIA CORPORATION, et al.Motion to Compel Compliance with Subpoena for Business Records (Body Care Spine and Nerve Center)Motion to Compel Compliance with Subpoena for Business Records (Steven Lerman, Esq.)TENTATIVEDefendant’s motions to compel compliance with subpoena for business records are GRANTED.The Custodian of Records for Body Care Spine and Nerve Center is ordered to produce the requested documents within thirty (30) days of this Order.The Custodian of Records for Steven Lerman, Esq. is ordered to produce the requested documents within thirty (30) days of this Order.Defendant’s request for sanctions is DENIED.                  Legal StandardWhen a subpoena has been issued requiring the attendance of a witness or the production of documents, electronically stored information, or other things before a court or at the taking of a deposition, the court, upon motion “reasonably made” by the party, the witness, or any consumer whose personal records are sought, or upon the court's own motion after giving counsel notice and an opportunity to be heard, may make an order quashing the subpoena entirely, modifying it, or directing compliance with it upon those terms and conditions as the court may specify. (See Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.1; Southern Pac. Co. v. Superior Court (1940) 15 Cal.2d 206.)The court can compel a witness’ compliance with a subpoena on such terms and conditions as appropriate to protect parties or witnesses from “unreasonable or oppressive demands” including unreasonable violations of the right of privacy of the person. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1987.1, subd. (a).)For discovery purposes, information is relevant if it might reasonably assist a party in evaluating the case, preparing for trial, or facilitating settlement. (Gonzalez v. Superior Court (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546.) Generally, all unprivileged information that is relevant to the subject matter of the action is discoverable if it would itself be admissible evidence at trial or if it appears reasonably calculated to lead to the discovery of admissible evidence. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2017.010; Schnabel v. Superior Court (1993) 5 Cal.4th 704, 711.)DiscussionDefendant moves to compel Body Care Spine and Nerve Center and Steven Lerman, Esq.’s compliance with subpoenas for Plaintiff’s medical records, and Plaintiff’s past records related to two prior auto accidents, where Lerman represented Plaintiff. (Mathis Decl., Exhs. 4.) As a result of the prior accidents, Plaintiff sought medical care and treatment with Body Care Spine and Nerve Center for her injuries. (Mathis Decl. ¶ 7, Exh. 3.) No one has ever served an objection to Trader Joe’s subpoenas, and plaintiff did not file a motion to quash. Neither Body Care Spine and Nerve Center nor Lerman have responded or produced any documents. (Mathis Decl., ¶ 9, Exh. 5.) No opposition has been filed against this motion which was filed on May 5, 2023.California Rules of Court, rule 3.1346 requires a motion to compel compliance with a deposition subpoena to be personally served on the non-party whose compliance is sought. Defendant has filed proof of service indicating that personal service of the motion has been made upon Body Care Spine and Nerve Center and Steven Lerman. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1011 subd. (b); California Rule of Court, rule 3.1346.) The Court also notes that according to the proofs of service attached as exhibit 4 to Defendant’s motion, the deposition subpoena was issued and served on the Custodian of Records for each non-party, and a Notice to Consumer was served on Plaintiff. Plaintiff has not filed an opposition, objecting to the deposition subpoenas. Thus, the Court grants the motion to compel compliance with the deposition subpoenas issued to Body Care Spine and Nerve Center and Steven Lerman, Esq.SanctionsDefendant requests sanctions pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 1987.2, which states that the Court “may in its discretion award the amount of the reasonable expenses incurred in making or opposing the motion, including reasonable attorney’s fees, if the court finds the motion was made or opposed in bad faith or without substantial justification.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 1987.2(a).)However, the Court will exercise its discretion and not award attorney fees as the motion was not opposed.Defendant also requests sanctions pursuant to CCP sections 2023.010 for the misuse of discovery. The request is denied, as "sections 2023.010 and 2023.030 do not independently authorize the trial court to impose monetary sanctions for misuse of discovery.” (City of Los Angeles v. PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLC (2022) 84 Cal.App.5th 466, 504.) 