 Case Number:  23STCV19401    Hearing Date:   March 27, 2024    Dept:  57 DEFENDANTS’ DEMURRER TO PLAINTIFFS’ FIRST AMENDED
COMPLAINT 
The demurrer is overruled to the extent it argues that
Plaintiff Nibble This, LLC lacks standing to assert directly the first, second,
third, and fifth causes of action in the First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) because
the injury Nibble This allegedly suffered is derivative of injuries to nominal
Defendants Nibble Easy, LLC and Nibble 390H, LLC.  In the Court’s view, Nibble This has standing
to directly assert these causes of action under Jara v. Suprema Meats (2004)
121 Cal.App.4th 1238.  The allegations in
the FAC bring Nibble This’s claims within the ambit of Jara.  Defendants’ reliance on Schrage v. Schrage
(2021) 69 Cal.App.5th 126, is misplaced. 
While Schrage did question whether Jara was correctly
decided, Schrage ultimately distinguished the allegations of direct
injury in Jara from the allegations of directly injury in Schrage.  (Id. at pp. 155-156.)  The allegations in the FAC fall on the Jara
side of the distinction drawn in Schrage.
The demurrer to the second cause of action for breach of
the fiduciary duty of care is sustained with leave to amend on the ground that
the FAC fails to allege actual damages resulting from the asserted breach.  Plaintiffs’ attempt to avoid this result
through the invocation of rescission in their opposition to the demurrer is
improper because Plaintiffs did not plead rescission in the FAC.
The demurrer to the fifth cause of action for tortious interference
with contracts is sustained with leave to amend because, as alleged in the FAC,
each of the three Defendants named in that cause of action are not strangers to
the two contracts in question.  Those
contracts are operating agreements between (1) Nibble This, SGI Retail, and
Nibble Easy, and (2) Nibble This, SGI Retail, and Nibble 390H.  The three Defendants named in this cause of
action are said to be the agents of SGI Retail (Defendants Cho and Huang) and
the owner of SGI Retail (Defendant Stiiizy, Inc).  Under Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton
Saudi Arabia, Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 513-514, an agent or owner of a
party to a contract is not a stranger to that contract and thus cannot be sued for
tortiously interfering with the contract.   
The demurrer to the sixth cause of action fraud is
sustained with leave to amend on the ground that, as alleged in the FAC, the
cause of action is barred by the applicable three-year statute of limitations.  Specifically, the purported fraudulent
statements underpinning the sixth cause of action are alleged to have been made
in mid-2019 and late 2019.  Plaintiffs
filed suit on August 14, 2023, more than three years after the statements are
alleged to have been made.  Plaintiffs’
effort in the FAC to plead within the “discovery rule” to escape the statute of
limitations fails.  While Plaintiffs
state in the FAC that they could not have discovered the fraud in mid and late
2019, Plaintiffs do not state when they actually discovered the fraud.  Thus, on the face of the allegations in the
FAC, the fraud claim is barred by the three-year statute of limitations.  The demurrer to the sixth cause of action for
fraud  is overruled in all other
respects.
DEFENDANTS’ MOTION TO STRIKE
The motion to strike is denied as moot in light of the ruling
on the Defendants’ demurrer to the extent that the motion to strike targets
allegations in the FAC of Plaintiffs’ entitlement to punitive damages on the
second cause of action for breach of the fiduciary duty of care and damages on
the sixth cause of action for fraud.
The motion to strike is denied on its substance to the
extent that the motion targets allegations in the FAC of illegal conduct by the
Defendants and contingent damages suffered by the Plaintiffs.