  Case Number:  23PSCV00368    Hearing Date:   August 9, 2024    Dept:  H The Court requires additional information before it  can rule on Petitioner J.R.’s PETITION TO APPROVE MINOR’S COMPROMISE OF PENDING  ACTION [i.e., as to John Roe] and thus defers ruling until the hearing on  August 9, 2024.  At that  hearing, Petitioner should be prepared to address the following issues and file  supplemental documentation as appropriate: First, the Petition contends that “Claimant  sustained mental and emotional injuries as a result of the subject incident,  which he will suffer for the remainder of his life.” (Petition, ¶¶ 6 and 8). However,  Petitioner has not provided the Court with any doctor’s report containing a  diagnosis of Claimant’s injuries or a prognosis of the Claimant’s recovery and  a report of Claimant’s current condition. Accordingly, the Court requests that  Petitioner address whether or not Claimant has received treatment for his  mental and emotional injuries at any point in time and whether or not any such  treatment is anticipated in the near future. Second, Petitioner  seeks court approval of attorney’s fees totaling 40% of the gross total amount  of the proposed settlement. (Attachment 13a). Petitioner has provided the Court  with a declaration from counsel Nadine Khedry and with a copy of the  attorney-client contingent fee contract. (Attachments 13a and 17a). In the  absence of a fee agreement previously approved by the Court, “the court must  use a reasonable fee standard when approving and allowing the amount of  attorney’s fees payable from money  or property paid or to be paid for the benefit of a minor or a person with a  disability.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.955(a)(1).) “The court must give consideration to the terms of any representation  agreement made between the attorney and the representative of the minor . . . and  must evaluate the agreement based on the facts and circumstances existing at  the time the agreement was made . . .”  (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 7.955(a)(2).)  Based on the present showing, the Court is not satisfied that  the amount of attorney’s fees for which court approval is requested is  reasonable under the requisite factors in California Rules of Court, rule 7.955(b).  At the hearing, Petitioner should address why the percentage should not be reduced  to 25-30% of the gross total amount. 