  Case Number:  22AHCV01400    Hearing Date:   April 15, 2024    Dept:  P I.         INTRODUCTION Plaintiff Raymond Clark (Clark) purchased Crescenta  Valley Tile Distributor, Inc. (CV Tile) from Defendants Craig and Jeanne Reiber  (Reibers). Craig and Jeanne Reiber owned and operated Crescenta Valley Tile  Distributor, Inc. for 30 years. In 2021, they began to look for someone to sell  the business to so they could retire. Clark, after conducting due diligence,  purchased the business.  The lawsuit is essentially a fraud claim. Clark  alleges that the Reibers misrepresented that the financials had been prepared  in accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP), that the  financials were accurate, that Accounts Receivable (AR) was accurate, and that  the financials supported the belief that there was a positive cash flow and the  company would not require additional capital investment by Clark. These  misrepresentations are alleged to have caused Clark to suffer material damages  due to lost investment and opportunity, as well as expenditure of legal and  accounting fees.  In their cross-complaint, the Reibers allege that  from August to December 2022, Clark breached the agreement in several ways  including failing to complete the F Reorganization and lease negotiations,  failing to timely pay business and credit accounts held in the name of Craig  Reiber and causing him to incur substantial debt and harm to his credit, and  failing to request a “true-up” accounting. They further allege that in December  2022, Clark informed the Reibers that he would invest no more money in the  company, he refused to pay debt of more than $500,000 that was personally  guaranteed by Craig Reiber and he renounced any further obligations under the  contract. Clark also announced he was closing the company and, on December 29,  2022, caused the company to file for bankruptcy. The operative first  amended cross-complaint (FACC) sets forth the following causes of action: (1)  breach of contract; (2) repudiation of contract; (3) breach of the implied  covenant of good faith and fair dealing; (4) express indemnity; (5) intentional  misrepresentation; (6) negligent misrepresentation; and (7) untrue statement or  omission in connection with the sale of a security.  Before the Court is Defendants’ motion to compel third  party Valcor Advisor’s deposition.          The  motion to compel deposition is GRANTED. II.       LEGAL STANDARD  “If the  deponent named is not a natural person, the deposition notice shall describe  with reasonable particularity the matters on which examination is requested. In  that event, the deponent shall designate and produce at the deposition those of  its officers, directors, managing agents, employees, or agents who are most  qualified to testify on its behalf as to those matters to the extent of any  information known or reasonably available to the deponent. (CCP § 2025.230.) Code  Civ. Proc. Section 2025.450  (a)  If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the action or an  officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a person  designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230, without  having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear for  examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any document,  electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the  deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling  the deponent’s attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of  any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in  the deposition notice.  (b)  A motion under subdivision (a) shall comply with both of the following:  (1)  The motion shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the  production for inspection of any document, electronically stored information,  or tangible thing described in the deposition notice.  (2)  The motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under  Section 2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and  produce the documents, electronically stored information, or things described  in the deposition notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has  contacted the deponent to inquire about the nonappearance.  . .  .  (g)(1)  If a motion under subdivision (a) is granted, the court shall impose a monetary  sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010) in favor of the  party who noticed the deposition and against the deponent or the party with  whom the deponent is affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to  the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances  make the imposition of the sanction unjust.   III.     ANALYSIS           A. Meet and Confer Efforts Were Not Sufficient           Defendants offer the declaration of their  attorney, D. Jason Lyon, in support of their meet and confer efforts. (Lyon  Declaration.) Lyon declares that on January 18, 2024, he first sent notice that  he received. (Lyon Decl. ¶ 5.) He then emailed on January 22, 2024, requesting  further meet and confer. (Lyon Decl. ¶ 6.) He declares that Valcor’s attorney  responded he could meet and confer on January 30, 2024. (Lyon Decl. ¶ 6.) Lyon  proposed meeting and conferring with counsel’s co-counsel in order to meet the  filing deadline. (Lyon Decl. ¶ 6.) Valcor’s attorneys did not respond.           On January 29, 2024, Lyon again  requested to meet and confer. (Lyon Decl. ¶ 8.) On February 7, 2024, Counsel  for Valcor responded with a meet and confer email. (Lyon Decl. ¶ 9.) Lyon  responded to this email substantively. (Lyon Decl. ¶ 9, Exh. E.)           In opposition, Clark urges that meet  and confer efforts were not sufficient. (Korenaga Decl. Exh. 6.) Kaeleen  Korenaga, counsel for Clark, attaches her email correspondence with Lyon to  show that parties discussed the deposition objections on March 28, 2024 and  April 1, 2024, after this motion was filed. (Korenaga Decl. ¶ 3.) The Court finds that meet and confer efforts were not  sufficient. Notwithstanding this conclusion, the Court rules on the merits of  the motion.  B.  Motion Defendants first served a notice of deposition on December  29, 2023 as to a January 24, 2024 deposition date. (Lyon Decl. ¶ 2, see Exh. A.)  The deposition notice seeks letters of intent to purchase CV Tile, any prior  deposition transcripts of Valcor Advisors, correspondence with former counsel  who negotiated the purchase of CV Tile, and other similar topics. On January 17,  2024, Valcor served objections to the deposition notice. (Lyon Decl. ¶ 4, see  Exh. C.) In response, Defendants’ counsel sent an email acknowledging the receipt  of the objections and requesting meet and confer. (Lyon Decl. ¶ 5, Exh. B.) On  January 22, 2024, Defendants’ counsel sent a second request for meet and  confer. (Lyon Decl. ¶ 6.) Valcor did not appear at the January 24, 2024  deposition. (Lyon Decl. ¶ 7.)   Defendants urge that the information sought in the  deposition is relevant to their affirmative defenses and their cross-complaint.  (Motion p. 8: 19-22.) Defendants cite CCP Section 2017.010 for the scope of  discovery. (CCP § 2017.010 [discovery is permitted of anything “relevant to the  subject matter involved in the pending action’].) Defendants urge the scope of  discovery is broad. (See Gonzalez v. Super. Ct. (1995) 33 Cal.App.4th 1539, 1546; Colonial Life  & Acc. Ins. Co. v. Super. Ct. (1982) 31 Cal.3d 785, 790; Lopez v.  Watchtower Bible and Tract Soc’y of N.Y., Inc. (2016) 246 Cal.App.4th 566,  591.) The Court agrees and overrules all relevancy objections. Defendants urge that the privacy objections are not  valid. (See Motion p. 8: 23-26.) In support, Defendants cite Roberts v. Gulf  Oil Corp. (1983) 147 Cal.App.3d 770, 791 for the proposition that  corporations do not have the same right to privacy as individuals. Defendants allege that Valcor also objected on basis  that “Defendants fail to show a compelling need for the discovery sought.”  However, upon examining Valcor’s objections, this objection does not appear.  (Lyon Decl. Exh. C.) Lastly, Defendants urge that the asserted vagueness,  ambiguity, overbreadth, unduly burdensome and harassment objections are without  merit.  In their joint opposition, Valcor and Clark urge  that documents responsive to Requests 1-3 have already been produced.  (Opposition p. 7: 1-12, Clark Decl. ¶¶ 11, 13.) In support, a declaration by  Plaintiff Ray Clark is attached. Clark includes copies of his document  production. (Clark Decl. Exhs. A-F.) Clark and Valcor also renew their objections to Request  No. 2: “[a]ll documents reflecting Valcor Advisors, LLC's communications with  Kelly Ryan or the Ryan Law Firm since January 1, 2021, including but not  limitation emails, physical correspondence, calendar entries, telephone logs  and notes” on basis of non-disclosure agreements between Valcor and other  entities. However, this is not a proper assertion of a privacy interest under Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn.  (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1. (See Reply p. 6: 1-12.) Additionally, there is a  protective order in place. (11/17/23 Stipulation.) The Court overrules the  privacy objections to Request 2.  In their opposition, Clark and Valcor renew the  relevancy, privacy and burden objections raised to Request 5, which requests “[d]ocuments  sufficient to identify any litigation in which Valcor Advisors, LLC has  participated as a party or witness, including case caption, court, and number.”  The Court finds that basic case information as requested in Request 5 does not  implicate privacy of third parties, as the information is publicly available.  Indeed, Valcor and Clark have identified that Valcor has participated in 70  cases and should have that case information readily available. The Court  overrules the objections to Request 5. (See CCP § 2017.010, Hill v. National Collegiate Athletic Assn.  (1994) 7 Cal.4th 1.)  The burdensome objection to Request 6 is supported  by the declaration of Ray Clark. He declares that Valcor has been retained as  an expert witness in over 70 cases. He declares that a search of the  depositions and production of those depositions would take several hours and  involve hundreds of documents. (Clark Decl. ¶ 10.) The Court sustains the  objection. (Obregon v. Superior Court (1998) 67  Cal.App.4th 424, 431; West Pico Furniture Co. of L.A. (1961) 56 Cal.2d  407, 417.) The motion to compel the PMQ deposition is granted  in part.[1]  The Court orders the PMQ deposition to proceed on Requests 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5. C.  Sanctions The Court does not find it appropriate to issue  sanctions to either party in connection with this motion. IV.      CONCLUSION AND ORDER           The motion by Defendants for an order  compelling the deposition of Valcor Advisors is granted. The Court, however,  modifies the document requests as follows: PMQ deposition of Ray Clark on  Request 1-5 is to proceed within 30 days’ notice of this order.  Counsel for Defendants, D. Jason Lyon, is ordered to  provide notice of this ruling.   Dated:  April  12, 2024                                      ______________________________                                                                                   JARED D. MOSES                                                                      JUDGE OF THE SUPERIOR COURT       