 Case Number:  24VECV03090    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  T ROYAL BUSINESS BANK V
YOUNAN 24VECV03090
[TENTATIVE] ORDER:  Plaintiff Royal Business Bank’s Application
for Right to Attach Order and Writ of Attachment is GRANTED against Defendant
Zaya Younan.  Plaintiff Royal Business
Bank shall post an undertaking in the amount of $10,000.00 prior to issuance of
the Writ.
Introduction 
Plaintiff Royal Business Bank
(Plaintiff) applied for a right to attach order and a writ of attachment
against Defendant Zaya Younan (Defendant).
Discussion 
Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sec. 484.040, Plaintiff submits the proof of service of the summons
and complaint and the application showing proper service upon Defendant.  
Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sec. 483.010, Plaintiff sufficiently shows that the claim is not
secured by real property and the claim is for a minimum of $500.  Plaintiff further submits that the action is
based upon a contract and the action is for a fixed or readily ascertainable
amount.
Pursuant to Code of Civil
Procedure sec. 484.090, Plaintiff asserts that there is probable validity of
their breach of contract claim.  To show
probability of prevailing, Plaintiff submits the declaration of Robert Ross to
attest to Co-Defendant YPI Arlington LLC (Borrower) entry into the promissory
note/business loan agreement and Co-Defendant YPI One North Arlington Fund LLC
and Defendant’s alleged guaranty of the loan; Plaintiff’s performance;
Defendant’s default on the guaranty; and Plaintiff’s damages totaling
$7,710,213.58.  
The alleged Commercial Guaranty
attached to the declaration of Mr. Ross at paragraph 2, exhibit B, is not
signed by Defendant, as an individual. 
Defendant signed the Commercial Guaranty as an executive of the various
corporate entities.  However, Plaintiff
provided that “the guarantee of the primary obligor’s debt sued upon is part
and parcel of an activity which occupies the time, attention, and effort of the
guarantor for the purposes of livelihood or profit on a continuing basis.”  (Advance Transformer Co. v. Superior Court
(1974) 44 Cal.App.3d 127, 144 (Advance Transformer).)  To support the contention, Plaintiff provided
that interactions relating to the loan were limited to Defendant and
Defendant’s submission of his personal financial statement.  (Ross Decl. par. 10-12.)  
Defendant’s opposition only
asserted that he did not sign the Commercial Guaranty, as an individual, but as
an executive of the corporate entities. 
However, the opposition is unpersuasive because it does not address
Plaintiff’s reliance upon Advance Transformer, reviewed above.  Without argument or facts to dispute
Plaintiff’s contention that the Borrower’s debt is part and parcel of an
activity which occupies the time, attention, and effort of Defendant for the
purposes of livelihood or profit on a continuing basis, Plaintiff failed to
meet his burden in opposing the application. 
Plaintiff sufficiently showed probability of prevailing.
Before a writ of attachment may
issue, Plaintiff must file an undertaking pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 489.210 in the amount of $10,000.00. (Code of Civ. Proc. sec.
489.220(a).)  A writ of attachment issued
without the mandated bond is void.  
The Application for Right to
Attach Order and Writ of Attachment is GRANTED.
IT IS SO ORDERED, CLERK TO GIVE NOTICE.