  Case Number:  21STCV21966    Hearing Date:   February 8, 2024    Dept:  15 [TENTATIVE] ORDER RE MOTION TO QUASH (PTI)
            Plaintiffs
Stephen Anderson and Robin Anderson alleges Stephen Anderson was injured as a
result of asbestos exposure from Defendant PTI Union, LLC’s products.  Defendant filed a motion to quash service of
summons for lack of personal jurisdiction. 
Plaintiffs asked for jurisdictional discovery, which the court granted.  The court continued the hearing date, and the
parties then filed supplemental briefing before the new hearing date.
A defendant may move to quash
service of summons on the ground of lack of jurisdiction of the court over him or
her.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 418.10, subd. (a)(1).)  The court may dismiss without prejudice the complaint
in whole, or as to that defendant, when dismissal is made pursuant to Section 418.10.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 581, subd. (h).)  
“A court of this state may
exercise jurisdiction on any basis not inconsistent with the Constitution of this
state or of the United States.”  (Code Civ.
Proc., § 410.10.)  “The Due Process Clause
protects an individual’s liberty interest in not being subject to the binding judgments
of a forum with which he has established no meaningful ‘contacts, ties, or relations.’”  (Burger
King Corp. v. Rudzewicz (1985) 471 U.S. 462, 471-472.)  A state court may not exercise personal jurisdiction
over a party under circumstances that would offend “traditional notions of fair
play and substantial justice.”  (Asahi Metal Industry Co., Ltd., v. Superior Court
of California, Solano County (1987) 480 U.S. 102, 113.)  
When a defendant moves to
quash service of process on jurisdictional grounds, the plaintiff has the initial
burden of demonstrating facts justifying the exercise of jurisdiction.  (Jayone
Foods, Inc. v. Aekyung Industrial Co. Ltd. (2019) 31 Cal.App.5th 543, 553.)  Once facts showing minimum contacts with the forum
state are established, the defendant has the burden to demonstrate that the exercise
of jurisdiction would be unreasonable.  (Ibid.) 
“The plaintiff must provide specific evidentiary facts, through affidavits
and other authenticated documents, sufficient to allow the court to independently
conclude whether jurisdiction is appropriate. 
[Citation.]  The plaintiff cannot rely
on allegations in an unverified complaint or vague and conclusory assertions of
ultimate facts.  [Citation.]”  (Strasner
v. Touchstone Wireless Repair & Logistics, LP (2016) 5 Cal.App.5th 215,
222.)
A defendant is subject to
a state’s general jurisdiction if its contacts “are so continuance and
systematic as to render [it] essentially at home in the forum State.”  (Daimler AG v. Bauman (2014) 571 U.S.
117, 127.)  A nonresident defendant may be
subject to the specific jurisdiction of the forum “if the defendant has purposefully
availed himself or herself of forum benefits [citation], and the ‘controversy is
related to or “arises out of” a defendant’s contacts with the forum.’  [Citations.]” 
(Vons Companies, Inc. v. Seabest Foods,
Inc. (1996) 14 Cal.4th 434, 446.) 
This test does not require a “causal relationship between the
defendant’s in-state activity and the litigation.”  (Ford Motor Co. v. Montana Eighth Judicial
District Court (2021) 141 S.Ct. 1017, 1026.)  The “arise out” of standard “asks about
causation,” but “relate to” does not.  (Ibid.)  “[W]hen a corporation has ‘continuously and
deliberately exploited [a State’s] market, it must reasonably anticipate being
haled into [that State’s] court[s]’ to defend actions ‘based on’ products
causing injury there.”  (Id. at p.
1027.)  
Defendant states there is
no general jurisdiction over it because it is a Delaware company located in
Missouri.  (Motion at p. 4.)  Plaintiffs do not dispute this.
Defendant argues
Plaintiffs cannot prove specific jurisdiction because Defendant blended talcum
products in Missouri for customers, those customers directed the shipment of
their products, and Defendant had no role in the release, distribution, sale,
or marketing of those products.  (Motion
at p. 7; Brasher Decl., ¶¶ 7, 8.)  Plaintiffs
argue Anderson was exposed to Gold Bond powder from the late 1980s into the
2000s, and Defendant manufactured and packaged Gold Bond powder for Chattem.  (Opposition at pp. 2, 4; Supp. Opposition at
p. 3.)  Defendant knew Chattem was
selling Gold Bond in California.  (Opposition
at p. 6; Supp. Opposition at pp. 4-5.)  Plaintiffs
contend these facts make this case like Jayone.  (Supp. Opposition at pp. 7-8.)
The court in Jayone
explained, “In the products liability context, merely placing a product into
the stream of commerce, even with knowledge that the product might enter the
forum state, is not a sufficient basis for personal jurisdiction over a
nonresident defendant.  [Citations.]  On the other hand, ‘if the sale of a product
of a manufacturer or distributor . . . is not simply an isolated occurrence,
but arises from the efforts of the manufacturer or distributor to serve,
directly or indirectly, the market for its product in other States, it is not
unreasonable to subject it to suit in one of those States if its allegedly
defective merchandise has there been the source of injury to its owner or to
others.’  [Citation.]”  (Jayone, supra, 31 Cal.App.5th at pp.
558-559.)  “[T]he indirect placement of products
into the stream of commerce does not necessarily insulate a foreign
manufacturer from the jurisdiction of California courts.  Even an indirect effort to serve a California
market for a manufacturer's product may reasonably make that manufacturer
subject to suit in California if its product has caused injury.”  (In re Automobile Antitrust Cases I &
II (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 100, 115.) 
“A nonresident defendant's indirect sales through its California
distributors constitutes economic activity in California as a matter of
commercial actuality when the defendant earned substantial gross income from
that activity.”  (Id. at p.
116.)  
In Jayone, the court explained the defendant had
“not merely place[d] its products into the stream of commerce with an awareness
that they might end up in California.”  (Jayone,
supra, 31 Cal.App.5th at p 559.)  The
defendant “purposefully directed its activities toward California businesses
when it repeatedly sold its products to various California distributors over a
seven-year period,” and “generated almost $2 million in revenue from those
California sales.”  (Ibid.)  The distributor was located in California, the defendant shipped the
products to that distributor in California, the defendant knew the final
destination of the products was California, the defendant visited the
distributor’s facility in California to discuss increasing the volume of
exports to the distributor, and the defendant visited a retail store in
California to see its products being sold there.  (Id. at pp. 556-557.)  The court held
this was enough to show the defendant had purposefully availed itself of the
benefits of doing business in California. 
(Id. at p. 559.)  
Plaintiffs did not provide comparable evidence that Defendant repeatedly
sold its products to California-based distributors and focused on increasing
sales to California.  Here the only
evidence about California is a 2019 certificate of analysis from a lab to Pharma-Tech
Industries concerning kaolin testing and stating the testing was for “Lead for
CA Prop 65.”  (Supp. Opposition at pp.
4-5; Adams Decl., Ex. 16.)  The 2019 date
of this document is after Plaintiff stopped using Gold Bond in 2017 (Supp.
Opposition at p. 2) and therefore does not show Defendant purposefully directed
its activities to California during the time of Plaintiff’s exposure.  Plaintiff did not show Defendant sold products
to distributors based in California or generated substantial gross income from California
sales, as in Jayone.  “[K]nowledge
the product might enter the forum state” is not enough.  (Bombardier Recreational Products, Inc. v.
Dow Chemical Canada ULC (2013) 216 Cal.App.4th 591, 602.)
Plaintiffs also state Defendant’s website discusses a partnership with
Clorox, and Clorox has headquarters in California.  (Supp. Opposition at p. 5.)  Plaintiffs submitted no evidence of those
assertions.  In any event, even if the
partnership with a California business meant that Defendant availed itself of
the forum benefits of California at some unknown time, Plaintiffs did not show
their claims against Defendant arise out of or relate to the partnership with
Clorox.  There is no evidence Clorox made
or distributed the product at issue here (Gold Bond) or any other
asbestos-containing product.
In sum, Plaintiffs did not show Defendant purposefully availed itself of
the forum benefits of California.
The motion is GRANTED
and the complaint against Defendant PTI Union LLC is DISMISSSED without
prejudice pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 581, subdivision (h).
The moving party is to
give notice.