 Case Number:  23LBCV00319    Hearing Date:   December 12, 2023    Dept:  S27  
1.     Background
Facts
On February 27, 2023, Plaintiff
Jazikio Carter (“Plaintiff”) filed a complaint against Defendants Johnnie
Miller (“Defendant”) and Does 1 to 10, for breach of contract arising from a leaking
ceiling in Plaintiff’s apartment. 
 
On September 1, 2023, Defendant
filed and served the following four unopposed discovery motions: (1) a motion to compel Plaintiff’s verified responses, without
objections, to Defendant’s Form Interrogatories, Set One, and for sanctions
against Plaintiff in the amount of $496.50 (the “Form Interrogatories Motion”);
(2) a motion to compel Plaintiff’s verified responses, without objections, to
Defendant’s Special Interrogatories, Set One, and for sanctions against
Plaintiff in the amount of $496.50 (the “Special Interrogatories Motion”); (3) a
motion to compel Plaintiff’s verified responses, without objections, to
Defendant’s Request for Production of Documents, Set One, and for sanctions
against Plaintiff in the amount of $496.50 (the “Request for Production
Motion”); and (4) a motion to deem all matters admitted in Defendant’s Request
for Admissions, Set One, and for sanctions against Plaintiff in the amount of $469.50
(the “RFA Motion”) (collectively, the “Motions”).[1] 
 
On October 17, 2023, the Court held
a hearing on Defendant’s Demurrer to the Complaint as well as Case Management
Conference. The Court sustained the demurrer with leave to amend and ordered
Plaintiff to file a Second Amended Complaint within 20 days. (10/17/23 Minute
Order.) The Court continued the hearing on the RFA Motion from December 14,
2023 to December 12, 2023. (Id.) 
 
The Court will address the Motions
in this one ruling. No opposition was filed as to any of the Motions. Any
opposition was required to have been filed and served at least nine court days
prior to the hearing. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd.(b).)    
 
2.     The
Form Interrogatories Motion
a.         Legal Standard
“Within
30 days after service of interrogatories, the party to whom the interrogatories
are propounded shall serve the original of the response to them on the
propounding party, unless on motion of the propounding party the court has
shortened the time for response, or unless on motion of the responding party
the court has extended the time for response.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.260,
subd. (a).)  If the party to whom
interrogatories are directed fails to serve a timely response, “[t]he party to
whom the interrogatories are directed waives any right to exercise the option
to produce writings under Section 2030.230, as well as any objection to the
interrogatories, including one based on privilege or on the protection for work
product.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (a).) “The party propounding
interrogatories may move for an order compelling response to the
interrogatories.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (b).)  
 
Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(d) provides that a
misuse of the discovery process is “[f]ailing to respond or to submit to an
authorized method of discovery.” Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.010(h) states that a
misuse of the discovery process includes “[m]aking or opposing, unsuccessfully
and without substantial justification, a motion to compel or limit discovery.” A
court has discretion to “impose a monetary sanction against a party engaging in
the misuse of the discovery process or any attorney advising such conduct”
under Code Civ. Proc. § 2023.030(a). A court has discretion to fix the amount
of reasonable monetary sanctions. (Cornerstone Realty Advisors, LLC v.
Summit Healthcare Reit, Inc. (2020) 56 Cal.App.5th 771, 791.)
 
b.         Analysis
Defendant
served Plaintiff with Form Interrogatories on July 18, 2023. (Marque Decl., ¶ 2
and Exhibit A.) Responses to the Form Interrogatories were due by August 21,
2023, however, as of the date of the Form Interrogatories Motion, neither
responses nor a request for an extension have been received. (Id., ¶¶
3-5.) Defendant is seeking sanctions in the amount of $469.50 as to the Form
Interrogatories Motion, at the hourly rate of $117 per hour, which represents:
1.5 hours preparing the motion, 1 hour reviewing the opposition and preparing
the reply, 1 hour attending the hearing on the motion, and a filing fee of $60.
(Id., ¶ 6.)
Based
on the declaration of counsel, Plaintiff has failed to provide discovery
responses. The Court therefore finds it appropriate to compel Plaintiff’s
Responses to Set One of Defendant’s Form Interrogatories and the Court GRANTS the Form Interrogatories Motion.
Plaintiff is ordered to provide verified, complete, and code-compliant
responses, without objections, to such discovery within 30 days of notice of
this order. 
 
As
to monetary sanctions, the Court exercises its discretion and GRANTS IN PART
Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff in the reasonable
amount of $177.00. This amount represents 1 hour of work on such motion plus
the $60.00 filing fee. The Court reduces the hours given the simplicity of the
motion, the fact that all the Motions are substantially similar, and the fact
that the Motions are unopposed. Plaintiff is ordered to pay monetary sanctions
to Defendant in the total amount of $177.00 within 30 days of notice of this
order as to the Form Interrogatories Motion. 

 
3.     The
Special Interrogatories Motion
a.         Analysis
The Court references and incorporates the legal standard set forth above
as to the Form Interrogatories Motion. Defendant served Plaintiff with Special Interrogatories
on July 18, 2023. (Marque Decl., ¶ 2 and Exhibit A.) Responses to the Special
Interrogatories were due by August 21, 2023, however, as of the date of the
Special Interrogatories Motion, neither responses nor a request for an
extension have been received. (Id., ¶¶ 3-5.) Defendant is seeking
sanctions in the amount of $469.50 as to the Special Interrogatories Motion, at
the hourly rate of $117 per hour, which represents: 1.5 hours preparing the
motion, 1 hour reviewing the opposition and preparing the reply, 1 hour
attending the hearing on the motion, and a filing fee of $60. (Id., ¶
6.)
 
Based on the declaration of counsel, Plaintiff has failed to provide
discovery responses. The Court therefore finds it appropriate to compel
Plaintiff’s Responses to Set One of Defendant’s Special Interrogatories and the
Court GRANTS the Special Interrogatories Motion. Plaintiff is ordered to
provide verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without objections,
to such discovery within 30 days of notice of this order. 
 
As to monetary sanctions, the Court exercises its discretion and GRANTS
IN PART Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff in the
reasonable amount of $177.00. This amount represents 1 hour of work on such
motion plus the $60.00 filing fee. The Court reduces the hours given the
simplicity of the motion, the fact that all the Motions are substantially
similar, and the fact that the Motions are unopposed. Plaintiff is ordered to
pay monetary sanctions to Defendant in the total amount of $177.00 within 30
days of notice of this order as to the Special Interrogatories Motion. 
 
4.     The
Request for Production Motion
a.         Legal Standard
 “Any
party may obtain discovery . . . by inspecting, copying, testing, or sampling
documents, tangible things, land or other property, and electronically stored
information in the possession, custody, or control of any other party to the
action.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.010, subd. (a).) Where a party fails to
timely respond to demand for inspection, copying, testing or sampling “[t]he
party to whom the demand for inspection, copying, testing, or sampling is
directed waives any objection to the demand, including one based on privilege
or on the protection for work product.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2031.300, subd.
(a).) Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300(b) provides that “[t]he party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand.” 
 
 
b.         Analysis
Defendant served Plaintiff with a Request for Production of Documents on
July 18, 2023. (Marque Decl., ¶ 2 and Exhibit A.) Responses to the Request for
Production were due by August 21, 2023, however, as of the date of the Request
for Production Motion, neither responses nor a request for an extension have
been received. (Id., ¶¶ 3-5.) Defendant is seeking sanctions in the
amount of $469.50 as to the Request for Production Motion, at the hourly rate
of $117 per hour, which represents: 1.5 hours preparing the motion, 1 hour
reviewing the opposition and preparing the reply, 1 hour attending the hearing
on the motion, and a filing fee of $60. (Id., ¶ 6.)
 
Based on the declaration of counsel, Plaintiff has failed to provide
discovery responses. The Court therefore finds it appropriate to compel
Plaintiff’s Responses to Set One of Defendant’s Request for Production of
Documents and the Court GRANTS the Request for Production Motion. Plaintiff is
ordered to provide verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without
objections, to such discovery within 30 days of notice of this order. 
 
As to monetary sanctions, the Court exercises its discretion and GRANTS
IN PART Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions against Plaintiff in the
reasonable amount of $177.00. This amount represents 1 hour of work on such
motion plus the $60.00 filing fee. The Court reduces the hours given the
simplicity of the motion, the fact that all the Motions are substantially
similar, and the fact that the Motions are unopposed. Plaintiff is ordered to
pay monetary sanctions to Defendant in the total amount of $177.00 within 30
days of notice of this order as to the Request for Production Motion. 
 
 
 
 
5.     The
RFA Motion 
a.         Legal Standard 
 After service of requests for admission, a
party has 30 days to respond “in writing under oath and separately to each RFA.”
(St Mary v. Superior Court (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 762, 774.) When a
party fails to serve a timely response to requests for admission “[t]he party
to whom the request was directed waives any objection to the requests,
including one based on privilege or on the protection for work product.” (Code
Civ. Proc, § 2033.280, subd. (a).) “The requesting party can move for an order
that the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in
the request be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).) The court shall issue this order unless the
party to whom the request was made serves a response in substantial compliance
prior to the hearing on the motion. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
“It is mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction . . . on the party
or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to requests for
admission necessitated [the] motion.”  (Ibid.)

 
b.         Analysis 
Defendant served Plaintiff with Set One of
Defendant’s Requests for Admission on July 18, 2023. (Marque Decl., ¶ 2 and
Exhibit A.) Responses to the Requests for Admission were due by August 21,
2023, however, as of the date of the RFA Motion, neither responses nor a
request for an extension have been received. (Id., ¶¶ 3-5.) Defendant is
seeking sanctions in the amount of $469.50 as to the RFA Motion, at the hourly
rate of $117 per hour, which represents: 1.5 hours preparing the motion, 1 hour
reviewing the opposition and preparing the reply, 1 hour attending the hearing
on the motion, and a filing fee of $60. (Id., ¶ 6.)
 
Based on the declaration of counsel, Plaintiff
has failed to provide discovery responses. The Court therefore GRANTS the RFA
Motion and deems the matters therein as admitted. 
As to monetary sanctions, the Court exercises
its discretion and GRANTS IN PART Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions
against Plaintiff in the reasonable amount of $177.00. This amount represents 1
hour of work on such motion plus the $60.00 filing fee. The Court reduces the
hours given the simplicity of the motion, the fact that all the Motions are
substantially similar, and the fact that the Motions are unopposed. Plaintiff is
ordered to pay monetary sanctions to Defendant in the total amount of $177.00
within 30 days of notice of this order as to the RFA Motion. 
 
6.     Conclusion
Given that the Motions are all
unopposed there is an inference that they are meritorious under Sexton v.
Superior Court (1997) 58 Cal.App.4th 1403, 1410. The Court GRANTS the
Motions. 
 
The Court GRANTS the Form Interrogatories Motion. Plaintiff is ordered to
provide verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without objections,
to Set One of Defendant’s Form Interrogatories within 30 days of notice of this
order.
 
The Court GRANTS the Special Interrogatories Motion. Plaintiff is ordered
to provide verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without
objections, to Set One of Defendant’s Special Interrogatories within 30 days of
notice of this order.
 
The Court GRANTS the Request for Production Motion. Plaintiff is ordered
to provide verified, complete, and code-compliant responses, without
objections, to Set One of Defendant’s Request for Production of Documents
within 30 days of notice of this order.
 
The Court GRANTS the RFA Motion and deems the matters set forth in Set
One of Defendant’s Request for Admissions as admitted. 
As to monetary sanctions, the Court GRANTS IN PART Defendant’s request
for monetary sanctions and ORDERS Plaintiff to pay monetary sanctions to
Defendant in the total amount of $708.00 within 30 days of notice of this
order. This amount represents total monetary sanctions as to the Form
Interrogatories Motion, Special Interrogatories Motion, Request for Production
Motion, and RFA Motion. 
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.  
 
Parties who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the
court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the
tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department does not
receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the tentative and
there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed off calendar.  If a party submits on the tentative, the
party’s email must include the case number and must identify the party
submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the tentative, the
party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on this
matter.   


