 Case Number:  23SMCV04014    Hearing Date:   April 18, 2024    Dept:  P Tentative
Ruling
Tenser
v. Ryan, et al., Case No. 23SMCV04014
Hearing
date April 18, 2024
Plaintiff’s
Motion to Strike Defendant Townsend’s anti-SLAPP Motion
Plaintiff’s
Motion for Leave to Amend the FAC
 
Plaintiff
attorney Tenser represented Blake Leibel in a highly publicized murder trial. Plaintiff
alleges defendant Townsend published a defamatory podcast episode that
described plaintiff as a stalker. 
Motion
to Strike: The first
amended complaint alleges defamation, invasion of privacy and fraud against
Townsend. On March 4, 2024, Townsend filed a special motion to strike (anti-SLAPP)
which is set for hearing on June 6, 2024. On March 11, plaintiff filed the
instant motion “to strike” Townsend’s motion to strike. Townsend filed her
opposition on April 3, 2024. As of April 16, 2024, no reply has been filed. 
Plaintiff
purports to make this motion to strike Townsend’s motion to strike pursuant to
CCP §436. Plaintiff described section 436 to “authorize the striking of a
pleading due to improprieties in conformity the laws of this state.” Motion,
10:15-16. CCP § 435(a)(2) defines “pleading” to mean “a demurrer, answer,
complaint, or cross-complaint.” Townsend’s motion is none of those. DENIED.
Motion
for Leave to Amend:
The FAC (1) defamation, (2) invasion of privacy against Townsend, (3) fraud
against Townsend, and (4) public entity liability against the County of Los
Angeles. The first cause of action contains five counts: (a) slander per se
against Silverman and Mokayef, (b) libel against Ryan, (c) conspiracy to
qualify defamation against Silverman, Mokayef, Cotter, Martindale and Ryan, (d)
District Attorney’s ratification against DA Gascon, and (e) slander per se
against Townsend.
Silverman
and Mokayef are/were LA County Deputy District Attorneys. Cotter and Martindale
are/were Los Angeles Sheriff Department homicide detectives. Ryan was a
prosecution witness in the trial. 
On February
7, 2024, the County, Silverman, Mokayef, Cotter, Martindale and Gascon filed a
demurrer to the FAC. On February 9, 2024, Plaintiff filed a proposed second
amended complaint (“SAC”). On February 21, 2024, Plaintiff filed this motion
for leave to amend the FAC. 
The proposed
SAC would remove the invasion of privacy and fraud causes of action against
Townsend. The remaining claims would be consolidated into a single cause of
action for defamation, with the following proposed counts: (a) slander per se
against Townsend, (b) slander per se against Silverman and Mokayef, (c) libel
against Ryan, (d) conspiracy to qualify defamation against Silverman, Mokayef,
Cotter, Martindale and Ryan, (e) public entity liability against the County of
Los Angeles and Gascon, and (f) Government Claims Act waiver against the County
and Gascon. The count of slander per se against Townsend would be supported by
new allegations that Townsend violated Canada’s Personal Information Protection
and Electronic Documents Act.
Amendment
as of right
Plaintiff
moves for leave to amend based on an incorrect reading of CCP §472 that
guarantees a right to amend any pleading before the deadline to oppose a
demurrer. Section 472(a) provides “a party may amend its pleading once
without leave of the court at any time . . . after a demurrer or motion to
strike is filed but before the demurrer or motion to strike is heard if the
amended pleading is filed and served no later than the date for filing an
opposition to the demurrer or motion to strike.” CCP § 472(a) (emphasis added).
A plaintiff’s right to amend without a Court order is limited to the original
pleading. Plaintiff had the right to file an FAC as of right, and he did so.
Leave to amend is required for subsequent amendments. He did not seek leave
prior to filing the SAC.
Prejudice
to defendants
Plaintiff
moves for leave to amend on the ground that the proposed changes do not
prejudice defendants, arguing the SAC “effects no change in the nature of the
case” and “merely provides the addition of matters essential to make the
original cause of action complete.” Motion, 6:11-14. 
Leave to
amend is generally liberally granted, as judicial policy favors resolution of
all disputed matters between the parties. See
Kolani v. Gluska (1998) 64 Cal.App.4th 402, 412. Townsend agreed to
stipulate to the amendment (Tenser Decl., ¶ 2) and filed notice of
non-opposition.
Plaintiff
contends the remaining proposed changes were made in response to the demurrer
filed by County defendants, so there is good cause to grant the amendment.
County defendants argue the proposed SAC only addresses one of the seven
grounds raised in the demurrer.
Plaintiff’s
motion does not meet the procedural requirements of Cal. Rules of Court rule
3.1324. A motion to amend a pleading before trial must (1) state what
allegations in the previous pleading are proposed to be deleted, if any, and
where, by page, paragraph and line number, the deleted allegations are located;
(2) state what allegations are proposed to be added to the previous pleading,
if any, and where, by page, paragraph, and line number, the additional
allegations are located. CRC 3.1324(a). A separate supporting declaration
specifying (1) the effect of the amendment; (2) why the amendment is necessary
and proper; (3) when the facts giving rise to the amended allegations were
discovered; and (4) the reason why the request for amendment was not made
earlier must accompany the motion. CRC 3.1324(b).
The
redline attached to the reply shows the FAC and SAC are substantially
different. In County defendants’ words, the SAC includes “numerous other
additions, rearrangements, and deletions, with no explanation and therefore
without any showing of how justice could possibly be served by them.” Opp.
4:3-6. Nowhere does plaintiff state by page, paragraph and line number the
deletions and additions. DENIED
without prejudice. Alternatively, the court will consider granting the motion
if plaintiff complies with CRC 3.1324.