..................... ..................... ..................... ......
The summary displayed below was created by an LLM named 'llama3-8b-8192':
Here is the YAML summary of the tentative ruling:

```
Case Number: 23STCV14238
Plaintiff's Name: Guillermo Romero Salas
Defendant's Name: BrightView Landscape Services, Inc. and Mario Izarpate
People: Guillermo Romero Salas, Tammy Alameda
Companies: BrightView Landscape Services, Inc., BrightView Landscape Development, Inc.
Places: Los Angeles County, California
Dates: June 20, 2023, July 20, 2023, January 11, 2024
Events: Motion to Compel Arbitration, Arbitration Agreement
Money: Not specified
Intentions: To compel arbitration and stay the entire action
Facts: Plaintiff Guillermo Romero Salas filed a complaint against Defendants BrightView Landscape Services, Inc. and Mario Izarpate; Defendant BrightView Landscape Services, Inc. filed a motion to compel arbitration; Plaintiff-signed arbitration agreement on May 29, 2017
Disputes: Existence of an agreement to arbitrate, enforceability of the arbitration agreement
Acts: Signing of arbitration agreement, filing of complaint and motion to compel arbitration
Agreements: Arbitration Agreement, Federal Arbitration Act, Labor Code section 229 and 432.6
Laws: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Labor Code, Federal Arbitration Act
Case Citations: Condee v. Longwood Management Corp., Sanchez v. Western Pizza Enterprises, Inc., Garrido v. Air Liquide Industrial U.S. LP, Rodriguez v. American Technologies, Inc., Cronus Investments, Inc. v. Concierge Services, Perry v. Thomas, Lab. Code, ยง 229 and 432.6, Armendariz v. Foundation Health Psychcare Services, Inc.
Statutes: California Code of Civil Procedure, California Labor Code, Federal Arbitration Act
Roles: Judge, Plaintiff, Defendant
Significant Statements: The Court grants the motion to compel arbitration; the entire action is stayed pending the conclusion of the arbitration; the arbitration agreement satisfies the Armendariz factors and is not unconscionable.
```

Here is a brief summary of the tentative ruling:

The Court grants Defendant BrightView Landscape Services, Inc.'s motion to compel arbitration, finding that the arbitration agreement signed by Plaintiff Guillermo Romero Salas on May 29, 2017, is enforceable. The Court concludes that the arbitration agreement satisfies the Armendariz factors and is not unconscionable. The entire action is stayed pending the conclusion of the arbitration.
