  Case Number:  21STCV17999    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



WEBER ENTERPRISE TRUCKING CORPORATION, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
FOREST LAWN MEMORIAL-PARK ASSOCIATION,
 
                        Defendant.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 21STCV17999
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER DENYING MOTION TO CLARIFY
  
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
January 11, 2024



 
On September 14, 2023, the Court
issued a ruling on Defendant Forest Lawn Memorial-Park Association’s motion for
summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication (“MSA”).  The Court denied the motion as to Plaintiff Weber
Enterprise Trucking Corporation’s First Amended Complaint (“FAC”).  The Court granted summary adjudication of Forest
Lawn’s First Amended Cross-Complaint (“FACC”)’s sixth cause of action for declaratory
relief regarding its termination of the Soil Agreement.
On
December 15, 2023, Weber filed a Motion by Plaintiff to Clarify the Court’s September
14, 2023 Order Granting, in Part, Cross-Defendant’s Motion for Summary Adjudication.  Weber contends that the Order “creates some uncertainty
with respect to the claims and evidence that will be permitted at trial.”  (Motion at p. 2.)
As
Weber notes, the Court denied Forest Lawn’s MSA with respect to Weber’s breach of
contract claim.  (See Motion at pp. 4.)  Weber alleges that Forest Lawn breached the Soil
Agreement by (a) by failing to make one million cubic yards of soil available to
Weber as agreed, (b) by failing to pay Weber for removing and separating steel reinforcing
encountered in processing concrete structures, and (c) by failing to allow Weber
to add soil and other materials to the Stockpiles.  (FAC ¶ 11.) 
The Court denied the MSA for this cause of action because, although “Weber
failed to show a triable issue of material fact regarding Forest Lawn not allowing
Weber to add soil and other materials to the Stockpiles,” this “does not dispose
of the entire cause of action and its multiple bases for breaches of the Soil Agreement.”  (09/14/2023 Order at p. 5.)
Weber
argues that it “should be permitted to present evidence regarding the first 2 prongs
of its Breach of Contract claim.”  (Motion
at p. 4.)  Specifically, Weber argues that
it “should be permitted to offer evidence at trial that Forest Lawn had breached
the Soil Agreement by January 29, 2021, which preceded Forest Lawn’s termination
4 months later.  Stated another way, Plaintiff
should be permitted to offer evidence at trial that Forest Lawn breached the Soil
Agreement months before Forest Lawn gave notice that it was terminating the Agreement.”  (Id. at p. 5.)  Forest Lawn “does not dispute that, based on
the Court’s ruling, there is no prohibition on Weber introducing evidence to
attempt to support its claims.” 
(Opposition at p. 3.)
The
Court also denied Forest Lawn’s MSA with respect to Weber’s claims for intentional
and negligent misrepresentation.  Weber alleges
that Forest Lawn represented that it would (a) make one million cubic yards of soil
available to Weber, and grant Weber exclusive right to remove the soil from Forest
Lawn’s premises; (b) pay Weber to process and set aside interfering portions of
stockpile improvements, including removing and separating steel reinforcing encountered
in processing concrete structures; and (c) allow Weber to add soil and other materials
to Stockpiles #1 and #2, to blend with materials in the Stockpiles, to create soil
and related products for sale.  (FAC ¶¶ 15,
22.)  The Court concluded that “Forest Lawn
may have met its burden on the misrepresentations regarding importing soil and making
one million cubic yards of soil available, [but] it has not met its burden on the
misrepresentation regarding paying Weber.” 
(09/14/2023 Order at p. 7.) 
Therefore, the Court denied summary adjudication because it would not
completely dispose of an entire cause of action.
Weber
argues that “notwithstanding the Order that Forest Lawn properly terminated the
Soil Agreement,” it should be allowed to “offer evidence at trial that: Forest Lawn
misrepresented that it would make 1,000,000 yd.³ of soil available to Plaintiff,
and that it would pay Weber for removing and separating steel reinforcing encountered
in processing concrete structures.”  (Motion
at p. 7.)  Forest Lawn “does not dispute
that, based on the Court’s ruling, there is no prohibition on Weber introducing
evidence to attempt to support its claims.” 
(Opposition at p. 3.)
The
Court also denied Forest Lawn’s MSA with respect to Weber’s claims for anticipatory
breach of contract and breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing.  Weber contends that these causes of action are
“not impacted by the Order, but it nonetheless seeks clarification/confirmation
that Plaintiff will be permitted to present evidence at trial in support” of these
claims.  (Motion at pp. 7-8.)
When
a court grants summary adjudication of a cause of action, that cause of action “shall
be deemed to be established and the action shall proceed as to the cause or causes
of action, affirmative defense or defenses, claim for damages, or issue or issues
of duty remaining.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (n)(1).)  A grant of summary adjudication
for one cause of action “shall not bar any cause of action, affirmative defense,
claim for damages, or issue of duty as to which summary adjudication was either
not sought or denied.”  (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (n)(2).)
The
Court granted summary adjudication of only the FACC’s sixth cause of action, for
which Forest Lawn sought “a determination and declaration that Forest Lawn properly
terminated the Soil Agreement on May 5, 2021 for cause.”  (FACC ¶ 69.) 
Accordingly, this is the only cause of action that is deemed established.  The granting of summary adjudication for the FACC’s
sixth cause of action does not bar other causes of action.
Weber’s
requests for “clarification/confirmation” that it will be allowed to present certain
evidence are matters that should instead be addressed through motions in limine.  If any party believes that a motion in limine
should be decided further in advance of the June 3, 2024 trial, they are free to
file that motion at any time.  (See California
Rules of Court, rule 3.1112(f).)
The
Court will not, in response to this motion, make any evidentiary rulings on what
either party may or may not present at trial.
Accordingly,
the motion to clarify is DENIED.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 11th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 