 Case Number:  22STCV26847    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



RICKY MILLAN, et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
JOAN PLOTFIN, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 22STCV26847
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING IN PART DEMURRER;
  GRANTING MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
January 11, 2024



 
On
March 27, 2023, Plaintiffs Ricky Millan, Silvia Millan, Michael Millan, Samantha
Millan, and Tommy Millan filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”) against Defendant
Joan Plotkin, individually and as Trustee of Plotkin Trust Agreement Dated August
28, 1991.  The Complaint alleges (1) negligence
– premises liability; (2) negligence per se; (3) negligent hiring; (4) negligent
infliction of emotional distress; (5) unjust enrichment; (6) nuisance; (7) breach
of contract; (8) breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment; (9) unfair business
practices; and (10) fraudulent concealment.
On
November 3, 2023, Defendant filed a demurrer and motion to strike.
On
January 4, 2024, Defendant filed a Notice of Plaintiffs’ Lack of Opposition.  The same day, Plaintiffs filed late oppositions
to the motions.
Plaintiffs
argue that the hearings “were scheduled on July 18, 2024 at 8:30.  Plaintiff saw the court schedule it for January
11, 2024.  Hence, the Court should overrule
the demurrers to these claims, or, in the alternative, grant plaintiffs leave to
amend.”  At the December 5, 2023 Case Management
Conference—which was attended by the same Plaintiffs’ counsel who signed the oppositions—the
Court advanced the hearings from July 18, 2024 to January 11, 2024.
Plaintiffs
also argue that the demurrer “is based solely on impermissible use of extrinsic
evidence, an unsigned, unauthenticated paper (see Defendant’s Demurrer) which
must not be considered” and “Defendant is attempting to insert her own interpretation
to contract terms and construction.”  Defendant’s
demurrer is not based on any exhibits and does not argue the interpretation of any
contract.
DEMURRER
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)
A.        Plaintiffs Allege Sufficient Facts for
Negligence Per Se (Second Cause of Action).
A
cause of action for negligence requires (1) a legal duty owed to the plaintiff to
use due care, (2) breach of that duty, (3) causation, and (4) damage to the plaintiff.  (County of Santa Clara v. Atlantic Richfield
Co. (2006) 137 Cal.App.4th 292, 318.) 
“The doctrine of negligence per se is based on ‘the rule that a presumption
of negligence arises from the violation of a statute which was enacted to protect
a class of persons of which the plaintiff is a member against the type of harm that
the plaintiff suffered as a result of the violation.’”  (Greystone Homes, Inc. v. Midtec, Inc.
(2008) 168 Cal.App.4th 1194, 1226.)
Defendant
argues that “Plaintiffs cannot state an independent cause of action for Negligence
Per Se.”  (Demurrer at p. 6.)  Plaintiffs’ first four cases of action all allege
different theories of negligence and should be combined into a single cause of action
for negligence.  The demurrer is sustained
on this ground.
Defendant
also argues that Plaintiffs do not plead sufficient facts to show how statutes were
violated.  (Demurrer at pp. 6-7.)  The FAC alleges that “Defendants had a statutory
duty to put and keep the Subject Property in a condition suitable for occupation
by human beings,” citing “California Civil Code §§ 1941, 1941.1, 1942, 1942.4 and
Health and Safety Code (H.&S.C.) § 17920.3(a)12.”  (FAC ¶ 34.) 
Civil Code sections 1941 and 1941.1 require a landlord to maintain and repair
a dwelling so it is tenantable, including effective waterproofing and weather protection
of the roof and electrical wiring that is maintained in good working order.  These are the defects that Plaintiffs allege.  (See FAC ¶¶ 10, 19-20, 23-27, 35.)
Plaintiffs
do not allege sufficient facts supporting violations of Civil Code section 1942
(tenant repair and deduction of expenses), Civil Code section 1942.4 (demanding
or collecting rent for a substandard dwelling), or Health and Safety Code section
17920.3(a)(12) (infestation of insects, vermin, or rodents).  However, the allegations are sufficient for other
statutory violations.  “A demurrer must dispose
of an entire cause of action to be sustained. 
(Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
97, 119.)
The
demurrer to the second cause of action is overruled on this ground.
B.        Plaintiffs Do Not Allege Facts for Negligent
Hiring (Third Cause of Action).
An
employer may be liable to a third person for negligent hiring or retention when
the employer hired an employee who was incompetent or unfit, the employer had reason
to believe an undue risk of harm would exist because of the employment, and harm
occurred.  (Federico v. Superior Court
(1997) 59 Cal. App. 4th 1207, 1213-1214.)
Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs do not allege sufficient facts.  (Demurrer at pp. 7-8.)  The FAC alleges that Defendant hired employees
who “were unfit and incompetent to perform the work for which they were hired, including
maintaining the roof of the subject property to be safe and free from fire hazards,
installing a swamp cooler, properly repairing the roof, and removing other dangerous
conditions in the HOME.”  (FAC ¶ 40.)  This and related allegations are conclusory and
only recite the required elements without alleging supporting facts.  (FAC ¶¶ 39-43.)
Additionally,
Plaintiffs’ first four cases of action all allege different theories of negligence
and should be combined into a single cause of action for negligence.
The
demurrer to the third cause of action is sustained.
C.        Plaintiffs Do Not Allege Facts for Negligent
Infliction of Emotional Distress (Fourth Cause of Action).
“[T]here
is no independent tort of negligent infliction of emotional distress.  [Citation.] 
The tort is negligence, a cause of action in which a duty to the plaintiff
is an essential element.  [Citations.]  That duty may be imposed by law, be assumed by
the defendant, or exist by virtue of a special relationship.  [Citation.]” 
(Potter v. Firestone Tire &Rubber Co. (1993) 6 Cal.4th 965, 984-985.)
Defendant
argues that no Plaintiff was physically harmed or contemporaneously witnessed the
infliction of injuries.  (Demurrer at pp.
8-9.)
A
defendant may be liable for negligently inflicting emotional distress on a bystander
when (1) the bystander was located near the scene of the accident; (2) the bystander’s
shock resulted from a direct emotional impact upon him from the sensory and contemporaneous
observance of the accident; and (3) the bystander and the accident victim were closely
related.  (Scherr v. Hilton Hotels Corp.
(1985) 168 Cal.App.3d 908, 909.)
Plaintiffs
allege that they suffered serious emotional distress “as a result of seeing a fire
engulf their place of residence.”  (FAC ¶
46.)  There is no allegation that any Plaintiff
was injured and the other Plaintiffs contemporaneously observed the injury.  Also, “‘[n]o California case has allowed recovery
for emotional distress arising solely out of property damage.’”  (Erlich v. Menezes (1999) 21 Cal.4th 543,
554.)
Defendants
also argue that Plaintiffs do not allege facts that establish serious emotional
distress.  (Demurrer at p. 9.)  Plaintiffs allege “extreme anguish, fright, horror,
nervousness, grief, anxiety, worry, and shock.” 
(FAC ¶ 46.)  Similar allegations of
“discomfort, worry, anxiety, upset stomach, concern, and agitation” do not constitute
“emotional distress of such substantial quality or enduring quality that no reasonable
[person] in civilized society should be expected to endure it.”  (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035,
1051, quotation marks omitted.)
Additionally,
Plaintiffs’ first four cases of action all allege different theories of negligence
and should be combined into a single cause of action for negligence.
The
demurrer to the fourth cause of action is sustained.
D.        Plaintiffs Do Not Allege Facts for Unjust
Enrichment (Fifth Cause of Action).
“The
elements of an unjust enrichment claim are the ‘receipt of a benefit and [the] unjust
retention of the benefit at the expense of another.’  [Citation.]” 
(Peterson v. Cellco Partnership (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 1583, 1593.)  Unjust enrichment is not a cause of action, but
a court may construe a cause of action for unjust enrichment as a cause of action
for quasi-contract seeking restitution.  (Rutherford
Holdings, LLC v. Plaza Del Rey (2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 221, 231.)  “[T]he quasi-contract, or contract ‘implied in
law,’ is an obligation created by the law without regard to the intention of the
parties and designed to restore the aggrieved party to his former position by the
return of the thing delivered or the money expended.”  (Masonite Corp. v. Pacific Gas & Electric
Co. (1976) 65 Cal.App.3d 1, 10-11.)
Defendant
argues that Plaintiff do not allege a basis for restitution.  (Demurrer at pp. 9-10.)  “The word ‘restitution’ means the return of money
or other property obtained through an improper means to the person from whom the
property was taken.”  (Clark v. Superior
Court (2010) 50 Cal.4th 605, 614.)  Plaintiff
alleges that Defendant “pocketed monies that should have been allocated to the:
(1) hire of competent employees; (2) installation of a swamp cooler; (3) inspection
and repair of kitchen areas where there were constant leaks; and (4) the implementation
of routine inspections and procedures to protect against fires.”  (FAC ¶ 50.) 
Some of these obligations are imposed on Defendant by statute, as discussed
with the second cause of action.  However,
Plaintiffs do not allege facts showing that Defendant obtained money from Plaintiffs
through improper means.
The
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is sustained.
E.        Plaintiffs Do Not Allege Facts for Breach
of Contract (Seventh Cause of Action).
Defendant
argues that only Silvia Millan is alleged to be a lessee of the property and the
FAC alleges that a singular “Plaintiff” entered into the rental agreement.  (Demurrer at p. 10; see FAC ¶¶ 2, 66.)  This renders the cause of action uncertain, and
the demurrer is sustained on this ground.
Defendant
also argues that Plaintiffs fail to cite to any express contractual term that was
purportedly breached.  (Demurrer at p. 11.)  Plaintiffs allege the existence of a rental agreement
for possession and enjoyment of the premises, but “[t]he written Rental Agreement
did not contain all terms of the rental, merely setting forth the parties, date,
monthly payment amount, and certain other terms.  One term that is not expressed in the Rental Agreement,
but is implied in all contracts, is the covenant of good faith and fair dealing.”  (FAC ¶¶ 68.)
“The
covenant of good faith and fair dealing, implied by law in every contract, exists
merely to prevent one contracting party from unfairly frustrating the other party’s
right to receive the benefits of the agreement actually made.  The covenant thus cannot ‘“‘be endowed with an
existence independent of its contractual underpinnings.’”’  [Citation.] 
It cannot impose substantive duties or limits on the contracting parties
beyond those incorporated in the specific terms of their agreement.”  (Guz v. Bechtel National, Inc. (2000) 24
Cal.4th 317, 349-350.)
Plaintiffs
do not allege any contractual duty “to provide Plaintiff with habitable residences
that are compliant with legal requirements, and knowingly, intentionally and willfully
failing to repair, maintain, and remediate the non-compliant aspects of the Premises.”  (FAC ¶ 69.) 
Accordingly, Defendant could not breach the contract “by incessantly failing
to provide habitable residences to Plaintiff.” 
(FAC ¶ 70.)
The
demurrer to the seventh cause of action is sustained.
F.         Plaintiffs Allege Sufficient Facts for
Unfair Business Practices (Ninth Cause of Action).
California’s
Unfair Competition Law (“UCL”) includes any unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent business
act or practice and unfair, deceptive, untrue, or misleading advertising.  (Bus. & Prof. Code, § 17200.)  The UCL embraces “anything that can properly be
called a business practice and that at the same time is forbidden by law.”  (Cel-Tech Communications, Inc. v. Los Angeles
Cellular Telephone Co. (1999) 20 Cal.4th 163, 180.)  “By proscribing any unlawful business practice,
section 17200 borrows violations of other laws and treats them as unlawful practices
that the unfair competition law makes independently actionable.”  (Ibid.; see Klein v. Earth Elements,
Inc. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 965, 969 [“Virtually any law can serve as the predicate
for a section 17200 action.”].)
Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs cannot bring this claim because they have vacated the premises.  (Demurrer at p. 12.)  A UCL
claim is an equitable in nature.  (Korea
Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29 Cal.4th 1134, 1144; Cortez
v. Purolator Air Filtration Products Co. (2000) 23 Cal.4th 163, 173.)  Although a tenant who is no longer in possession
of the premises has no standing to seek injunctive relief (Stoiber v. Honeychuck
(1980) 101 Cal.App.3d 903, 928), Plaintiffs here seek restitution (another equitable
remedy), not an injunction.  (FAC ¶ 88.)
Defendant
argues that Plaintiffs do not allege facts for violation of any statutes upon which
this cause of action may be based.  (Demurrer
at p. 12.)  Plaintiffs allege violation of
“California Civil Code §§ 1941, 1941.1 and 1942.4.”  (FAC ¶ 86.) 
As discussed with the second cause of action, Plaintiffs state sufficient
facts for violations of Civil Code sections 1941 and 1941.1.
Defendant
also argues that “Plaintiffs fail to allege that the other Plaintiffs were parties
to any contract with Defendants nor that they paid any rents.”  (Demurrer at p. 12.)  Although Plaintiffs do not sufficiently allege
that they were all parties to the rental agreement, they do allege payment of rent
for which they may seek restitution.  (FAC
¶¶ 55, 84.)
The
demurrer to the ninth cause of action is overruled.
G.        Plaintiffs Do Not Allege Sufficient Facts
for Fraudulent Concealment (Tenth Cause of Action).
Fraud
based on concealment requires that “(1) the defendant must have concealed or suppressed
a material fact, (2) the defendant must have been under a duty to disclose the fact
to the plaintiff, (3) the defendant must have intentionally concealed or suppressed
the fact with the intent to defraud the plaintiff, (4) the plaintiff must have been
unaware of the fact and would not have acted as he did if he had known of the concealed
or suppressed fact, and (5) as a result of the concealment or suppression of the
fact, the plaintiff must have sustained damage.”  (Bigler-Engler v. Breg, Inc. (2017) 7 Cal.App.5th
276, 310-311.)
Plaintiffs
allege that “Defendants knew of dilapidated conditions at the Subject Property and
Plaintiff’s HOME.  However, Defendants intentionally
withheld this information from Plaintiff.” 
(FAC ¶ 90.)  If Plaintiffs had known
of the poor conditions, they would have sought alternative housing.  (FAC ¶ 91.)
Defendant
argues that there is no allegation that she was aware of any poor conditions.  (Demurrer at pp. 14-15.)  Plaintiffs allege that Defendant would temporarily
fix the kitchen ceiling leak, but the leaks persisted.  (FAC ¶¶ 19, 24.)  Defendant “failed to take additional reasonable
steps to make sure that the constant leaks would not cause an electrical fire in
the future.”  (FAC ¶ 26.)  However, Plaintiffs also allege that Defendant
“eventually fixed the roof.”  (FAC ¶¶ 19,
24.)  The only other allegations of poor conditions
are related to the absence of a swamp cooler, which was previously in place.  (FAC ¶ 24.) 
Plaintiffs allege that “[t]he presence of the swamp cooler which was previously
present was necessary to prevent a fire in the poorly cared for HOME due to the
landlord’s negligence.”  (FAC ¶ 25.)  There are no factual allegations about Defendant
knowing this was required and created poor conditions.  Additionally, Plaintiffs do not allege facts showing
that they were unaware of the conditions.
The
demurrer to the tenth cause of action is sustained.
H.        Conclusion
The
demurrer to the third, fourth, fifth, seventh, and tenth causes of action is SUSTAINED
with 30 days’ leave to amend.
The
demurrer to the second, third, and fourth causes of action is SUSTAINED with 30
days’ leave to amend as a single combined negligence cause of action.
The
demurrer is otherwise OVERRULED.
MOTION
TO STRIKE
The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California,
a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b).)
Defendant
seeks to strike paragraphs 64, 82, 98-101, which relate to punitive damages, as
well as the prayer for punitive damages.
A
plaintiff can recover punitive damages in tort cases where “the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” 
(Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).)  “The
mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an
award of punitive damages.  [Citation.]  Not only must there be circumstances of oppression,
fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.
[Citation.]”  (Grieves v. Superior Court
(1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166, fn. omitted.)
For
the nuisance cause of action, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant “airing the defective,
dangerous and uninhabitable conditions of the Subject Property or causing them to
be repaired for an unconscionably extended period (over three months).”  (FAC ¶ 64.) 
For breach of the covenant of quiet enjoyment, Plaintiffs allege that Defendant
breached her duty by “failing to provide reasonable fire safety measures, including
using a swamp cooler, properly repairing the roof, and removing other dangerous
conditions in the HOME that caused an electric fire in the kitchen (specifically,
dilapidated conditions), for an unconscionably extended period (over three months).”  (FAC ¶ 77.) 
These facts, if proven, would support a finding of oppression or malice.
However,
Plaintiffs allege that Defendant’s liability is “based on its support of, aiding
and abetting of, approval of and ratification of their managing agents’ conduct.”  (FAC ¶ 99.) 
A corporate employer can be liable for punitive damages only when an officer,
director, or managing agent of the corporation had advance knowledge of the unfitness
of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights
or safety of others, authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct, or was personally
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ.
Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)  Plaintiffs do not
allege facts showing Defendant’s knowledge of unfit agents or her authorization
or ratification of the wrongful conduct.
The
motion to strike is GRANTED with 30 days’ leave to amend.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 11th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 