 Case Number:  23STCV10401    Hearing Date:   January 11, 2024    Dept:  48  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE
COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ROXANNA SIMANIAN, 
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
LA COLOMBE, et al.,
 
                        Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


     
  CASE NO.: 23STCV10401
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER SUSTAINING DEMURRER; GRANTING
  IN PART AND DENYING IN PART MOTION TO STRIKE
 
Dept. 48
8:30 a.m.
January 11, 2024



 
On
July 5, 2023, Plaintiff Roxanna Simanian filed a first amended complaint (“FAC”)
against Defendants La Colombe Holdings Inc., Rana Seabrook, and Isaiah Gutierrez.
On
August 8, 2023, Defendants filed a combined demurrer and motion to strike.  “Motions to strike and demurrers should be filed
as separate documents.”  (Weil & Brown,
Cal. Prac. Guide: Civil Procedure Before Trial (The Rutter Group June 2022 Update)
¶ 7:162.1.)
DEMURRER
A
demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action.  (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740,
747.)  When considering demurrers, courts
read the allegations liberally and in context, accepting the alleged facts as true.  (Nolte v. Cedars-Sinai Medical Center (2015)
236 Cal.App.4th 1401, 1406.)  A special demurrer
for uncertainty under Code of Civil Procedure section 430.10, subdivision (f) is
disfavored and will only be sustained where the pleading is so bad that defendant
or plaintiff cannot reasonably respond—i.e., cannot reasonably determine what issues
must be admitted or denied, or what counts or claims are directed against him or
her.  (Khoury v. Maly’s of Calif., Inc.
(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th 612, 616.)
A.        Plaintiff Does Not Allege Facts Showing
Wrongful Termination (Eleventh Cause of Action).
The
eleventh cause of action alleges wrongful termination “in violation of various fundamental
public policies underlying both state and federal laws.  Specifically, plaintiff’s employment was terminated
in part because of her protected status (i.e., disability, disability by association,
ancestry, national origin, race, and religion, and/or protected activity).”  (FAC ¶ 86.)
Defendants
argue that there was no termination and that Plaintiff voluntarily resigned.  (Demurrer at pp. 11-12.)  Plaintiff argues that when an employer’s misrepresentation
to an employee induces the employee to alter their position, it may form a basis
for fraud in the context of wrongful termination.  (Opposition at p. 6.)
An
employer’s misrepresentations might be “the means to the end desired by the employer,
i.e., termination of employment. . . . If the termination itself is wrongful, either
because it breaches the employment contract or because it violates some well-established
public policy articulated in a statute or constitutional provision, then the employee
is entitled to recover damages sounding in contract or tort, respectively.”  (Hunter v. Up-Right, Inc. (1993) 6 Cal.4th
1174, 1185 (Hunter).)  “[A]n action
for wrongful termination in violation of public policy must be predicated on a fundamental,
well-established, substantial policy that concerns society at large rather than
the individual interests of the employer or employee [citation], and that is delineated
in some constitutional or statutory provision.” 
(Id. at p. 1186.)
Plaintiff
alleges that in August 2022, “an opportunity to attend school in New York presented
itself” to her.  (FAC ¶ 15(i).)  She asked Gutierrez if she could transfer to a
location of Defendant in New York, and Gutierrez “informed her that she could and
to let him know when she moves so that he can process her transfer.”  (FAC ¶ 15(i).)  Plaintiff then “turned in her resignation for
the location she was working out of, and she felt comfortable doing so because she
was given the assurance that when she arrived to New York she would have a job.”  (FAC ¶ 15(j).)  Thereafter, an employee from Human Resources emailed
Plaintiff a link with current New York job postings and a link for “returning employees.”  (FAC ¶ 15(j).)  Once in New York, Plaintiff spoke with a supervisor
at a nearby store, “who seemed very excited as she had received Simanian’s job application.  She advised Simanian that she emailed Gutierrez
and was still waiting for a reply.”  (FAC
¶ 15(k).)  Two weeks later, Gutierrez emailed
Plaintiff to say “that he replied to the email from the manager in New York and
he even spoke to the east coast director and was informed that no one in the east
coast was hiring.”  (FAC ¶ 15(l).)  on September 22, 2022, Seabrook informed Plaintiff
that she was not hirable in the café.  (FAC
¶ 16.)
In
Hunter, the plaintiff’s supervisor falsely informed him that “there had been
a corporate decision to eliminate his position and that if he did not resign he
would be terminated,” so the plaintiff signed a resignation document.  (Hunter, supra, 6 Cal.4th at p. 1179.)  Here, however, Plaintiff does not allege facts
showing that Defendants forced her resignation. 
Plaintiff inquired about a transfer, and Gutierrez “informed her that she
could and to let him know when she moves so that he can process her transfer.”  (FAC ¶ 15(i).)  Instead of waiting for Gutierrez to process a
transfer, Plaintiff “turned in her resignation for the location she was working
out of.”  (FAC ¶ 15(j).)
And
even if the facts were sufficient to show Plaintiff’s forced resignation, Plaintiff
does not allege facts showing that the constructive termination was wrongful because
it breached an employment contract (as further discussed with the eighth and ninth
causes of action below) or violated well-established public policy articulated in
a statute or constitutional provision.  (See
Opposition at p. 7 [arguing wrongful termination arising from breach of an implied-in-fact
contract]
The
demurrer to the eleventh cause of action is sustained.
B.        Plaintiff Does Not Sufficiently Allege
a Contract or Breach (Eighth and Ninth Causes of Action).
The
eighth cause of action alleges breach of express oral contract not to terminate
employment without good cause, and the ninth cause of action alleges breach of implied-in-fact
contract not to terminate employment without good cause.
“In
the employment context, factors apart from consideration and express terms may be
used to ascertain the existence and content of an employment agreement, including
‘the personnel policies or practices of the employer, the employee’s longevity of
service, actions or communications by the employer reflecting assurances of continued
employment, and the practices of the industry in which the employee is engaged.’”  (Foley v. Interactive Data Corp. (1988)
47 Cal.3d 654, 680.)
Defendants
argue that Plaintiff cannot overcome the statutory presumption that employment contracts
without a stated duration are at will.  (Demurrer
at pp. 9-11; see Guz v. Bechtel Nat. Inc. (2000) 24 Cal.4th 317, 335, fn.
8.)
Plaintiff
alleges that “[o]n the basis of oral assurances of continued employment given to
plaintiff by defendants’ supervisors, the length of plaintiff’s employment with
defendants, defendants’ actual practice of terminating employment only for cause,
and the industry standard for the business defendants engaged in of terminating
employment only for cause, plaintiff and defendants shared the actual understanding
that plaintiff’s employment could and would be terminated only for cause.”  (FAC ¶ 79.) 
This conclusory recitation of factors does not set forth any facts showing
an agreement to terminate employment only for cause.  The only relevant factual allegations are that
Plaintiff began working for Defendants on October 13, 2021 and turned in her resignation
on August 18, 2022.  (FAC ¶¶ 12, 15(j).)
Defendants
also argue that Plaintiff cannot allege a breach because she resigned and there
was no termination.  (Demurrer at p. 11.)  For the reasons discussed with the eleventh cause
of action, this is another deficiency.
The
demurrer to the eighth and ninth causes of action is sustained.
C.        Plaintiff Does Not Allege Extreme Conduct
or Severe Emotional Distress (Thirteenth Cause of Action).
The
thirteenth cause of action alleges intentional infliction of emotional distress
(“IIED”) arising from Defendants’ “discriminatory, harassing, and retaliatory actions
against plaintiff constituted extreme and outrageous misconduct.”
“‘[T]o
state a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress a plaintiff
must show: (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant; (2) the defendant’s intention
of causing or reckless disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress;
(3) the plaintiff’s suffering severe or extreme emotional distress; and (4) actual
and proximate causation of the emotional distress by the defendant’s outrageous
conduct.’  [Citation.]  ‘Conduct, to be ‘outrageous’ must be so extreme
as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized society.’  [Citation.]” 
(Huntingdon Life Sciences, Inc. v. Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty USA,
Inc. (2005) 129 Cal.App.4th 1228, 1259.) 
“While the outrageousness of a defendant’s conduct normally presents an issue
of fact to be determined by the trier of fact [citation], the court may determine
in the first instance, whether the defendant’s conduct may reasonably be regarded
as so extreme and outrageous as to permit recovery.”  (Trerice v. Blue Cross of California (1989)
209 Cal.App.3d 878, 883.)  When a plaintiff
does not suffer physical injury, the conduct must involve “extreme and outrageous
intentional invasions of one’s mental and emotional tranquility.”  (Alcorn v. Anbro Engineering, Inc. (1970)
2 Cal.3d 493, 498.)
Defendants
argue that none of the allegations constitute extreme or outrageous conduct.  (Demurrer at pp. 13-15.)  “Liability for intentional infliction of emotional
distress ‘“does not extend to mere insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty
oppressions, or other trivialities.”  [Citations.]’”  (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035,
1051 (Hughes).)
Plaintiff
alleges limited conduct:  (1) Plaintiff requested
that she not be scheduled on Sundays any longer to care for her uncle who was diagnosed
with cancer, but Gutierrez informed her that she will be fired if she cannot make
it to work on Sundays; (2) Gutierrez stated “stop building pyramids, I know that
is all you guys do,” referring to Plaintiff’s middle eastern background; (3) Gutierrez
said, “I don’t think you are that religious, do you have to take it off? I didn’t
even know you went to temple,” in response to Plaintiff’s request for a day off
due to a religious holiday; and (4) Gutierrez required Plaintiff, but not a white
coworker, to return to work with a doctor’s note and told her to mind her own business.  (FAC ¶¶ 15(c)-(e), (g); see Opposition at pp.
7-8.)  This is not extreme or outrageous conduct.
Defendants
also argue that Plaintiff does not allege severe emotional distress.  (Demurrer at pp. 15-17.)
Plaintiff
alleges that she felt “helpless and distraught,” “devastated,” “mortified and anxious,”
“degraded, upset and shocked,” “even more helpless and distressed,” “completely
overcome with anxiety, distress, mental and physical pain and anguish,” and she
continues to suffer “psychological and emotional distress, humiliation, and mental
and physical pain and anguish” and “humiliation, emotional distress, and mental
and physical pain and anguish.”  (FAC ¶¶ 15(b)-(f),
16, 18, 101.)
Similar
allegations of “discomfort, worry, anxiety, upset stomach, concern, and agitation”
do not constitute “emotional distress of such substantial quality or enduring quality
that no reasonable [person] in civilized society should be expected to endure it.”  (Hughes, supra, 46 Cal.4th at p. 1051,
quotation marks omitted.)
The
demurrer to the thirteenth cause of action is sustained.
MOTION
TO STRIKE
The
court may, upon a motion or at any time in its discretion: (1) strike out any irrelevant,
false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading; or (2) strike out all or any
part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with the laws of California,
a court rule, or an order of the court.  (Code
Civ. Proc., § 436, subds. (a)-(b).)
Defendants
seek to strike the prayer for punitive damages against Seabrook and La Colombe,
to the extent any punitive damages sought against La Colombe are predicated on alleged
actions by Seabrook.  (Demurrer at p. 19.)
A
plaintiff can recover punitive damages in tort cases where “the defendant has been
guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.” 
(Civ. Code § 3294, subd. (a).)  “The
mere allegation an intentional tort was committed is not sufficient to warrant an
award of punitive damages.  [Citation.]  Not only must there be circumstances of oppression,
fraud or malice, but facts must be alleged in the pleading to support such a claim.
[Citation.]”  (Grieves v. Superior Court
(1984) 157 Cal.App.3d 159, 166, fn. omitted.)
With
respect to Seabrook, Plaintiff alleges that she ignored Plaintiff’s complaint about
Gutierrez’s harassment and informed Plaintiff that she was not hirable in the cafe
area of the company.  (FAC ¶¶ 15(f), 15(h),
16.)  Even a single complaint about unlawful
harassment should alert a manager to respond and can support a punitive damage award.  (Roby v. McKesson Corp. (2009) 47 Cal.4th
686, 717.)  The motion is denied as to Seabrook.
With
respect to La Colombe, a corporate employer can be liable for punitive damages only
when an officer, director, or managing agent of the corporation had advance knowledge
of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard
of the rights or safety of others, authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct,
or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice.  (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (b).)  There are no such allegations about La Colombe’s
knowledge or ratification of Seabrook’s conduct.
Plaintiff
argues that “Defendants clearly acted with fraud when they falsely induced Plaintiff
into believing that she would be allowed to transfer to a position with Defendants
in New York when in fact they planned on forcing Plaintiff into resigning, and with
malice when they repeatedly attacked Plaintiff on the basis of her religion and
ethnicity.”  But the alleged fraudulent inducement
and harassment were attributed to Gutierrez, not Seabrook. 
The
motion to strike is granted as to La Colombe.
CONCLUSION
The
demurrer is SUSTAINED with 30 days’ leave to amend.
The
motion to strike is GRANTED with 30 days’ leave to amend as to La Colombe.  The motion is DENIED as to Seabrook.
Moving
party to give notice.
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at SMCDEPT48@lacourt.org
indicating intention to submit.  If all parties
in the case submit on the tentative ruling, no appearances before the Court are
required unless a companion hearing (for example, a Case Management Conference)
is also on calendar.
 
        
Dated this 11th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Thomas D. Long
Judge of the Superior
  Court
 




 