 Case Number:  21STCV20905    Hearing Date:   June 17, 2024    Dept:  50  
 
Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles
Department
50
 



NORMA OLASO, deceased, by and through her personal legal
  representative and successor in interest, NELSON OLASO, et al.,
 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
ALEXANDRIA CARE CENTER, LLC dba GENESIS HEALTHCARE aka
  ALEXANDRIA CARE CENTER, et
  al.,
 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


  21STCV20905




Hearing Date:


June 17, 2024




Hearing
  Time:    10:00 a.m. 
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE:
 
DEMURRER OF
  DEFENDANTS ALEXANDRIA CARE CENTER, LLC, GENESIS HEALTHCARE LLC, AND LUSINE
  TER OGANESYAN TO PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLAINT; 
 
MOTION OF
  DEFENDANTS ALEXANDRIA CARE CENTER, LLC, GENESIS HEALTHCARE LLC, and LUSINE
  TER OGANESYAN TO STRIKE PORTIONS OF PLAINTIFFS’ COMPLAINT
 



 
Background
Plaintiffs Norma Olaso, deceased,
by and through her personal legal representative and successor in interest,
Nelson Olaso, and Nelson Olaso (jointly, “Plaintiffs”) filed this action on
June 4, 2021 against Defendants Alexandria Care Center, LLC dba Genesis
Healthcare aka Alexandria Care Center, Summit Care, LLC, and Lucy Teroganesyan.
The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) elder abuse and neglect, (2)
violation of patient rights, (3) negligence, and (4) wrongful death. 
Defendants Alexandria Care Center, LLC, Genesis HealthCare LLC, and
Lusine Ter Oganesyan (collectively, “Defendants”) now demur to the first and
second causes of action of the Complaint. Defendants also move to strike
portions of the Complaint. Summit Care, LLC joins in Defendants’ demurrer and
motion to strike. Plaintiffs oppose the demurrer and motion to strike.[1] 
Demurrer
A.    ¿ Legal Standard 
A demurrer can be used
only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the pleading under attack
or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially noticeable. ((Blank
v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311,
318.) “To survive a demurrer, the
complaint need only allege facts sufficient to state a cause of action; each
evidentiary fact that might eventually form part of the plaintiff’s proof need
not be alleged.” ((C.A. v. William S. Hart
Union High School Dist. (2012) 53
Cal.4th 861, 872.) For the purpose of testing the
sufficiency of the cause of action, the demurrer admits the truth of all material facts properly pleaded. ((Aubry v. Tri-City Hospital Dist. (1992) 2 Cal.4th 962, 966-967.) A demurrer “does not admit contentions, deductions or conclusions
of fact or law.” ((Daar v. Yellow Cab Co. (1967) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713.) 
B.    Allegations of the Complaint 
In the Complaint, Plaintiffs
allege that “Plaintiff Decedent NORMA OLASO” (herein, the “Decedent”)
was born on March 18, 1938 and died on May 31, 2020. (Compl., ¶ 1.)
The Decedent “was
admitted to Defendant FACILITY[2] in
January of 2018 for assistance and therapy in recovering from a stroke. She
required skilled and custodial services to meet her care needs.” (Compl., ¶
39.) Plaintiffs allege that “Defendant FACILITY failed to provide adequate care
to Decedent NORMA and failed to effectively develop, implement, and modify care
plans for her individualized care needs.” (Compl., ¶ 44.)
 “Decedent NORMA required full
assistance with eating and drinking. Yet the records documented by GENESIS
HEALTHCARE AKA ALEXANDRIA CARE CENTER reflect that Defendants failed to provide
the full assistance she required.” (Compl., ¶ 45.) “By May 15, 2020, it was
reported that approximately 91 cases of COVID-19 have been confirmed at
Defendants’ FACILITY among residents and staff. Defendant FACILITY employees
began to fail to show up for work. Defendant FACILITY failed to provide
required care to the facility’s residents and placed them in harm’s way.”
(Compl., ¶ 48.) 
“On approximately May 20, 2020, Decedent NORMA tested positive for
COVID-19.” (Compl., ¶ 49.) “On May 20, 2020, Decedent NORMA was transported to
Redlands Community Hospital’s Emergency Room due to hypoxia, shortness of
breath, and fever. Upon admission to the emergency room, Decedent NORMA was
found to be nonverbal slowly deteriorating…Over the next few hours, Decedent
NORMA’s health continued to decline. She was diagnosed with pneumonia, acute
hypoxic respiratory failure, and electrolyte imbalance.” (Compl., ¶¶ 50-51.) “Decedent
NORMA could not recover from her extreme respiratory infection/syndrome and
other injuries and died on May 31, 2020.” (Compl., ¶ 52.) 
C.    First Cause of Action for Elder Abuse and Neglect 
Defendants assert that Plaintiffs do not allege facts sufficient to
state a cause of action for elder abuse. 
Pursuant to Welfare and Institutions Code
section 15657.2, “[n]otwithstanding this article, any cause of action for injury or
damage against a health care provider…based on the health care provider’s
alleged professional negligence, shall be governed by those laws which
specifically apply to those professional negligence causes of action.” In Delaney
v. Baker (1999) 20 Cal.4th 23, 32, cited by Defendants, the California
Supreme Court held that “[s]ection 15657.2 can therefore be read as making
clear that the acts proscribed by section 15657 do
not include acts of simple professional negligence, but refer to forms of abuse
or neglect performed with some state of culpability greater than mere
negligence.” 
Welfare and Institutions Code section 15657, contained in the Elder Abuse and
Dependent Adult Civil Protection Act, provides, inter alia, that
“[w]here it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that a defendant is
liable for physical abuse as defined in Section
15610.63, neglect as defined in Section
15610.57, or abandonment as defined in Section
15610.05, and that the defendant has been guilty of recklessness,
oppression, fraud, or malice in the commission of this abuse,” certain remedies
shall apply, “in addition to all other remedies otherwise provided by law.” The Delaney Court noted that “[i]n
order to obtain the remedies available in section 15657,
a plaintiff must demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that defendant is
guilty of something more than negligence; he or she must show reckless,
oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious conduct. The latter three categories
involve intentional, willful, or conscious wrongdoing of a despicable or
injurious nature. Recklessness refers to a subjective state of culpability
greater than simple negligence, which has been described as a deliberate
disregard of the high degree of probability that an injury will occur…
Recklessness, unlike negligence, involves more than inadvertence, incompetence,
unskillfulness, or a failure to take precautions but rather rises to the level
of a conscious choice of a course of action . . . with knowledge of the
serious danger to others involved in it.” (Delaney v. Baker,
supra, 20 Cal.4th at pp. 31-32 [internal quotations and citations
omitted].) 
Defendants argue that here,
“[t]here are no allegations against demurring defendants to demonstrate
that they acted with oppression, fraud, or malice (i.e., intentional, willful,
or conscious wrongdoing of a despicable or injurious nature) or recklessness
(i.e., a level of conscious choice of a course of action with knowledge of
serious danger to others) toward successor plaintiff’s decedent, Norma
Olaso…There are no facts demonstrating egregious abuse beyond the level of even
gross negligence. Ms. Olaso was a resident of a skilled nursing facility during
the middle of a pandemic and she allegedly tested positive for Covid-19, was
transferred to the hospital the same day, and died eleven days later.” (Demurrer at p. 3:16-23.) 
In the opposition,
Plaintiffs assert, inter alia, that they sufficiently plead “recklessness.”
Plaintiffs cite to Fenimore v.
Regents of University of California (2016) 245 Cal.App.4th 1339, 1342, where “George Fenimore, Jr. (George), was a patient at Resnick Neuropsychiatric
Hospital in March 2013 when he fell and suffered a hip injury from which he
never recovered. George died in July 2013.
Plaintiffs Lindsey Fenimore (for herself and as successor in
interest to George), George Fenimore III,
and Marian Fenimore sued the Hospital for elder abuse,
negligence, negligent hiring and supervision, and wrongful death. The Fenimores
appeal[ed] from the judgment entered after the court sustained the demurrer of
the hospital to the causes of action for elder abuse and negligent hiring and
supervision.” The Court of Appeal “reverse[d] the judgment with directions to
enter a new order overruling the demurrer to the elder abuse cause of action.”
((Id. at
p. 1342.) 
            The
Court of Appeal in Fenimore noted that “[t]he Elder
Abuse Act’s heightened remedies do not apply to acts of professional
negligence. (§
15657.2; Delaney,
supra, 20 Cal.4th at p. 32.) Hence,
the Act does not provide liability for simple or gross negligence by
health care providers…Plaintiffs must plead and prove something more than
negligence—that is, reckless, oppressive, fraudulent, or malicious conduct.” ((Id. at
p. 1347.) The Fenimore Court found that in that case, “[t]he FAC supplied
allegations that may show recklessness. It alleged the Hospital had a pattern
and knowing practice of improperly understaffing to cut costs, and had the
Hospital been staffed sufficiently, George would have been properly supervised
and would not have suffered injury. On a demurrer, we must accept the
allegations as true and express no opinion on whether the Fenimores can
ultimately prove these allegations. We must assume the Fenimores can prove
by clear and convincing evidence that the Hospital was understaffed at the time
George fell, that this understaffing caused George to fall or otherwise harmed
him, and that this understaffing was part of a pattern and practice. If they do
so, we cannot say as a matter of law that the Hospital should escape liability
for reckless neglect. The trier of fact should decide whether a knowing pattern
and practice of understaffing in violation of applicable regulations amounts to
recklessness.” ((Id. at p. 1349.) Similarly here, paragraph 65 of Plaintiffs’
Complaint alleges as follows: 
 
“Defendants
failed to meet Decedent NORMA’s need for care and basic services, to avoid
needless suffering, injury, and emotional distress, by making a conscious
choice to understaff the nursing home, in both quantity and quality of nursing
personnel. The decision to understaff was made at the corporate level by
Defendant ALEXANDRIA (THE LICENSEE) to increase the profitability of the
nursing home, in conscious disregard of patient care needs. Defendants,
together with its directors, officers, and managing agents including the
Administrator, Director of Nursing, and Medical Director, conceived of and
implemented a plan to increase business profits at the expense of residents
like Decedent NORMA and other Defendant FACILITY residents. Integral to this
plan was the practice and pattern of Defendants’ staffing its facilities with
an insufficient number of care personnel, many of whom were not properly
trained nor qualified to care for the elders whose lives were entrusted to
them. The understaffing and lack of training was designed to reduce labor costs
and to increase profits and resulted in high staff turnover and the physical
abuse and neglect of many residents of the facilities and most specifically,
Decedent NORMA. This corporate policy to not maintain sufficient staffing, as
required by law, was developed and implemented with the conscious disregard for
the likelihood of physical harm and injury to those who it is in the business
to protect, including Decedent NORMA, who did in fact suffer as a direct
consequence of the Defendants’ proprietary interests, which it placed above
that of Decedent NORMA, and other residents/patients.” (Compl., ¶ 65.) 
Based on the foregoing, the
Court agrees with Plaintiffs that the Complaint sufficiently pleads “recklessness.”
In the demurrer, Defendants also cite to Winn v. Pioneer Medical
Group, Inc. (2016) 63 Cal.4th 148, 157-158, where the California Supreme Court noted that “[t]he content of section 15610.57,
subdivision (b) nonetheless proves particularly instructive. Neglect
includes the ‘[f]ailure to assist in personal hygiene, or in the provision of
food, clothing, or shelter.’…It also includes the ‘[f]ailure to protect from
health and safety hazards’…and the “[f]ailure to prevent malnutrition or
dehydration…These examples add some context elucidating the statute’s
meaning—context that supports inferences about the sort of conduct the
Legislature sought to address from individuals ‘having the care or custody’ of
an elder. What they each seem to contemplate is the existence of a robust
caretaking or custodial relationship—that is, a relationship where a certain
party has assumed a significant measure of responsibility for attending to one
or more of an elder’s basic needs that an able-bodied and fully competent adult
would ordinarily be capable of managing without assistance.” Defendants
argue that here, “[b]ecause neither Alexandria Care Center, LLC nor Genesis
HealthCare LLC had a ‘robust caretaking or custodial relationship’ with Norma
Olaso, successor plaintiff may not maintain a cause of action for elder abuse
against them.” (Demurrer at p. 5:3-5.) But Defendants do not cite any
allegations of the Complaint to support this conclusory argument.  
Moreover, in the first cause of action, Plaintiffs allege that
“Decedent NORMA was not able-bodied and was unable to take care of her own
needs during the time she was under the care and custody of Defendants, while a
resident of Defendant FACILITY. Decedent NORMA had a history of stroke with
right-sided deficit, arthritis, neuropathy, contractures, atrial fibrillation,
and vertigo. Additionally, she had diabetes, hypo-osmolality, cerebral
infraction due to embolism of left middle cerebral artery, hyperlipidemia,
hypertension, and dysphagia. She was, thus, dependent on Defendants’ care staff
for all her activities of daily living including assistance in dressing,
grooming, bathing, toileting, medication management, and feeding…Accordingly,
Defendants and each of them, had a substantial ongoing caretaking and custodial
relationship with Decedent NORMA, while she was a resident at the Defendants’
FACILITY. Decedent NORMA was dependent on Defendants, and each of them, for all
of her custodial and other care needs.” (Compl., ¶¶ 55-56.)
In the demurrer, Defendants also note that pursuant to Welfare and Institutions Code section 15657, “[w]here it is proven by clear and
convincing evidence that a defendant is liable for physical abuse as defined
in Section 15610.63, neglect as defined
in Section 15610.57, or abandonment as defined
in Section 15610.05, and that the defendant
has been guilty of recklessness, oppression, fraud, or malice in the commission
of this abuse, the following shall apply, in addition to all other remedies
otherwise provided by law:…(c) The standards set forth in
subdivision (b) of Section 3294 of the Civil Code regarding
the imposition of punitive damages on an employer based upon the acts of an
employee shall be satisfied before any damages or attorney’s fees permitted
under this section may be imposed against an employer.” (Welf. & Inst.
Code, § 15657, subd. (c).) Defendants note that pursuant to Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (b), “[a]n
employer shall not be liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based
upon acts of an employee of the employer, unless the employer had advance
knowledge of the unfitness of the employee and employed him or her with a
conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others or authorized or ratified
the wrongful conduct for which the damages are awarded or was personally guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the
advance knowledge and conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act
of oppression, fraud, or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or
managing agent of the corporation.” 
Defendants argue that here, “plaintiff has not alleged facts
demonstrating that an officer, director, or managing agent of defendants
Alexandria Care Center, LLC or Genesis HealthCare LLC employed any employee who
allegedly abused successor plaintiff's decedent, knowing in advance that the
employee was likely to commit the acts and employed him or her with conscious
disregard of the rights and safety of others, or actually authorized or
ratified the employee’s acts.” (Demurrer at p. 5:20-25.) As a threshold matter,
Defendants appear to be arguing
in the demurrer that Plaintiffs have not alleged sufficient facts to support
Plaintiffs’ request for damages. (See Demurrer at p. 5:18-20, “the
standard of proof for the imposition of damages under Welfare
and Institutions Code section 15657, ‘clear and convincing evidence,’ is
the same standard for imposing punitive damages.) However, the Court notes that “¿a demurrer
cannot rightfully be sustained to part of a cause of action or to a particular
type of damage or remedy.¿” (¿Kong v. City of Hawaiian Gardens Redevelopment Agency (2002)
108 Cal.App.4th 1028, 1047¿; ¿see also PH II, Inc. v.
Superior Court (1995) 33
Cal.App.4th 1680, 1682 [“A demurrer does not lie to a portion of a cause of
action.”]¿.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to
the first cause of action for elder abuse and neglect
D.   
Second Cause of Action for Violation of Resident’s Rights 
Pursuant
to Health and Safety Code section 1430, subdivision
(b)(1), “[a] current or former resident or
patient, or the legal representative, personal representative, or successor in
interest of a current or former resident or patient, of a skilled nursing
facility, as defined in subdivision (c) of Section
1250, or intermediate care facility, as defined in subdivision (d) of Section 1250, may bring a civil action against the
licensee of a facility who violates any rights of the resident or patient as
set forth in Section 72527 or 73523 of Title 22 of
the California Code of Regulations, or any other
right provided for by federal or state law or regulation. The suit shall be
brought in a court of competent jurisdiction. The licensee shall be liable for
the acts of the licensee’s employees.” 
In the second cause of action, Plaintiffs
allege that “Defendants’ conduct as described in the foregoing sections
violated several of Decedent NORMA’s statutory rights...”
(See Compl., ¶ 80.) In the demurrer, Defendants assert that “there
are not any facts pled to support the alleged violations.” (Demurrer at p.
7:9-10.) But Plaintiffs also allege in the second cause of action that “[t]he
acts and omissions of Defendants alleged above constitute violations of
patients’ rights within the meaning of Health and Safety Code§ 1430(b).” (Compl., ¶ 79.)
In the opposition, Defendants point to, inter alia, paragraph
65 of the Complaint, which, as set forth above, alleges in part that
“Defendants failed to meet Decedent NORMA’s need for care and basic services,
to avoid needless suffering, injury, and emotional distress, by making a
conscious choice to understaff the nursing home, in both quantity and quality
of nursing personnel.” (Compl., ¶ 65.) Plaintiffs assert that “[t]hese are
unambiguous allegations of violation of the duty to provide adequate number of
qualified personnel to array are all functions of the facility [sic] and to
meet patients’ needs, as enumerated in ¶ 58 section k.” (Opp’n at p. 10:23-25.)
Paragraph 58 of the Complaint alleges, inter alia, that “Defendants owed
the following duties to Decedent NORMA:…k. Duty to provide adequate number of
qualified personnel to carry out all functions of the facility and to meet
patients’ needs as well as adequate training and competent supervision (Cal. Code of Regs., tit. 22, §§ 72329 and 72329.1; Health & Saf. Code,§ 1599.1(a); 42 C.F.R. §§ 483.35, 483.95).” (Compl., ¶ 58(k).) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court does not
find that Defendants have demonstrated that the second cause of action fails
to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action. Thus, the Court overrules Defendants’
demurrer to the second cause of action.  
///
///
Motion to Strike
A
court may strike any “irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any
pleading” or any part of a pleading “not drawn or filed in conformity with the
laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the court.” ((Code Civ. Proc., § 436.) Defendants move to
strike a number of allegations from the Complaint. 
First, Defendants move to strike Plaintiffs’ request for punitive
damages. Plaintiffs seek punitive damages in connection with the first cause of
action for elder abuse and neglect. (Compl., ¶ 77; Compl., p. 25:10-11.) 
Defendants cite to Code of Civil Procedure
section 425.13, subdivision (a),
which provides, inter alia, that “[i]n any action for damages arising out of the professional
negligence of a health care provider, no claim for punitive damages shall be
included in a complaint or other pleading unless the court enters an order
allowing an amended pleading that includes a claim for punitive damages to be
filed.” Defendants assert that “pursuant
to Code of Civil Procedure section 425.13,
successor plaintiff must seek leave of court to amend the complaint to add
punitive damage claims. Because he has not done so, punitive damage
allegations…should be stricken from the complaint. Additionally, because treble
damages are punitive in nature…plaintiff’s request for treble damages…should be
stricken as well.” (Mot. at pp.
6:23-7:2.)[3]

However, Defendants acknowledge that “section 425.13’s limitations on actions for damages arising out
of professional negligence (§ 425.13(a)) were not
meant to burden those who pursue the cause of abused elderly persons…under the
Elder Abuse Act.” ((Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior
Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th 771, 783.)
Defendants assert that “inasmuch as defendants have demurred to
the elder abuse cause of action on the ground that there are not sufficient
facts to support such a claim, defendants submit that the procedural
requirements of section 425.13 apply here.” (Mot.
at p. 4, fn. 2.) As set forth
above, the Court overrules Defendants’ demurrer to Plaintiffs’ first cause of
action for elder abuse and neglect. Thus, the Court does not find that
Defendants have shown that Plaintiffs’ punitive damages allegations should be
stricken pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure
section 425.13. 
Defendants also note that pursuant
to Civil
Code section 3294, subdivision (a), “[i]n
an action for the breach of an obligation not arising from contract, where it
is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty
of oppression, fraud, or malice, the plaintiff, in addition to the actual
damages, may recover damages for the sake of example and by way of punishing
the defendant.” As used in Civil Code section 3294,
“‘Malice’ means conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury to
the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a
willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (c)(1).) “‘Oppression’ means despicable conduct that
subjects a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that
person’s rights.” (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(2).) “‘Fraud’ means an intentional
misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the
defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving
a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.” (Civ. Code, §
3294, subd. (c)(3).)   
            Defendants
contend that here, “[t]here is absolutely no indication or factual
allegations that defendants intentionally harmed plaintiffs’ decedent with
malicious intent. There is nothing base, vile, or contemptible about the
alleged conduct. Accordingly, for this additional reason, the punitive damage
allegations should be stricken from plaintiffs’ complaint.” (Mot. at p.
8:11-14.) In the opposition, Plaintiffs assert that they “have pled facts
demonstrating Defendants’ willful and conscious disregard for Ms. Olaso’s
rights and safety…” (Opp’n at p. 11:20-21.) Plaintiffs point to, inter alia,
paragraph 65 of the Complaint. The Court agrees with Plaintiffs that the
allegations of paragraph 65 of the Complaint sufficiently demonstrate “malice”
for purposes of Plaintiffs’ request for punitive damages.
Defendants also note that pursuant to Civil Code section 3294, subdivision (b), “[a]n employer shall not be
liable for damages pursuant to subdivision (a), based upon acts of an employee
of the employer, unless the employer had advance knowledge of the unfitness of
the employee and employed him or her with a conscious disregard of the rights
or safety of others or authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct for which
the damages are awarded or was personally guilty of oppression, fraud, or
malice. With respect to a corporate employer, the advance knowledge and
conscious disregard, authorization, ratification or act of oppression, fraud,
or malice must be on the part of an officer, director, or managing agent of the
corporation.” Defendants assert that here, “Plaintiffs’ complaint
is devoid of any facts which demonstrate that defendants Alexandria Care
Center, LLC, Genesis HealthCare LLC, hired their agents or employees with a
conscious disregard for the rights and safety of others, or that someone of
sufficient authority ratified or authorized the alleged misconduct.” (Mot. at
pp. 8:27-9:2.) 
In the opposition, Plaintiffs assert that they “sufficiently allege
Defendants carried out the alleged reckless neglect through acts and/or
ratification by its managing agents.” (Opp’n at p. 9:16-17.) Plaintiffs point
to, inter alia, paragraph 65 of the FAC,
which alleges in part that “Defendants, together with its directors,
officers, and managing agents including the Administrator, Director of
Nursing, and Medical Director, conceived of and implemented a plan to increase
business profits at the expense of residents like Decedent NORMA and other
Defendant FACILITY residents. Integral to this plan was the practice and
pattern of Defendants’ staffing its facilities with an insufficient number of
care personnel, any of whom were not properly trained nor qualified to care for
the elders whose lives were entrusted to them.” (Compl., ¶ 56, emphasis added.)
The Court finds that Plaintiffs have sufficiently alleged that “the employer…authorized or ratified the wrongful conduct
for which the damages are awarded...” (Civ. Code, § 3294,
subd. (b).) 
 Based on the foregoing, the
Court denies Defendants’ motion to strike Plaintiffs’ punitive damages
allegations. 
Lastly, Defendants move to strike Plaintiffs’ requests for attorney’s
fees. Defendants note that “[g]enerally, fees
paid to attorneys are not recoverable from the opposing party either as
costs, damages, or otherwise, in the absence of express statutory or
contractual authority.” ((American Fire Protection Service
v. Williams (1959) 171 Cal.App.2d
397, 404.) Defendants assert that “[h]ere, there is no
statutory or contractual authority entitling successor plaintiff to attorney
fees. Accordingly, item nos. 1, 3, 4, and 7 in the attached notice of motion
should be stricken from the complaint.” (Mot. at p. 9:9-11.) However, as
acknowledged by Defendants, Plaintiffs allege, inter alia, that they
seek “attorney’s fees and costs pursuant to Welfare
& Institutions Code § 15657” and “attorney’s fees and costs
pursuant to Health & Safety Code § 1430(b)…”
(Compl., p. 25:8-9; 25:16.) Thus, the Court denies Defendants’ motion to strike
Plaintiffs’ requests for attorney’s fees. 

Conclusion
Based on the foregoing,
Defendants’ demurrer is overruled in its entirety. Defendants’ motion to strike
is denied. 
The Court orders
Defendants and Summit Care, LLC to file and serve their answers to the
Complaint within 10 days of the date of this Order.
Plaintiffs are ordered
to give notice of this Order.
 
DATED:  June 17, 2024                                 ________________________________
Hon. Teresa A.
Beaudet
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court


