  Case Number:  22STCV03159    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



A
  PLUS FABRIC, INC., et al., 
                        Plaintiffs,
            vs.
 
STEPHEN J. JUNG, et al., 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.       
                        





     
  CASE NO.:  22STCV03159
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
Date: November 13, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Plaintiff/Cross-Defendant
Elliot Tishbi (“Tishbi”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Defendant/
Cross-Complainant Seung Jae Baek, aka Andrew Baek (“Baek”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 
 
BACKGROUND
            This action arises out of various
alleged fraudulent transfers.  The
operative first amended complaint filed on July 18, 2022 asserts the following
causes of action: (1) intentional misrepresentation; (2) intentional fraudulent
concealment; (3) negligent misrepresentation; (4) breach of fiduciary duty; (5)
breach of written contract; (6) avoidance and recovery of fraudulent transfers;
(7) conversion; (8) accounting; (9) conspiracy to defraud; (10) declaratory
relief; (11) indemnity and contribution; (12) aiding and abetting fraudulent
transfers; and (13) aiding and abetting breach of fiduciary duty.
 
            On March 9, 2023, Baek, filed a
cross-complaint (the “Cross-Complaint”) against Tishbi and Curious Apparel
alleging (1) breach of contract; (2) violation of implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing; (3) conversion; (4) unjust enrichment (quasi-contract);
and (5) money had and received.
 
            On August 7, 2024, Tishbi filed the
instant Motion for Summary Judgment (the “Motion”) seeking an order granting
summary judgment as to the entire Cross-Complaint.  Baek filed an opposition on October 25, 2024,
and Tishbi filed a reply on November 7, 2024. 

 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
             Tishbi’s evidentiary objections are ruled upon
as follows: 
·      
Objections to the Declaration of Baek
            SUSTAINED: 1-5, 10-11, 13-14, 16-18,
20-21, 23-24, 28-32;
            OVERRULED: 6-7, 12, 15, 19, 22, 27,
33-34.
            The Court declines to rule on Objection
Nos. 8, 9, 25 and 26 as the matters objected to are not material to the Court’s
disposition of this Motion.  (Code Civ.
Proc. § 437c(q).)
 
·      
Objections to the Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”)
of Baek
Objection
to RJN Nos. 1-3 is SUSTAINED, and OVERRULED as to RJN No. 4.
 
·        
Objection to Baek’s Responses to Tishbi’s Separate
Statement of Undisputed Material Facts: OVERRULED.
JUDICIAL NOTICE 
            Tishbi requests judicial notice of the First Amended Complaint filed on
July 18, 2022 (Exh. A); the Cross Complaint filed on March 9, 2023 (Exh. B);
and the Opposition to Motion to Compel Deposition filed on August 22, 2023
(Exh. C.).  Although unnecessary, as
these documents are all part of the records of this case, the request is
GRANTED.
 
            As for Baek’s requests
for judicial notice, the Court declines to take judicial notice of Item Nos. 1
– 3 as they are irrelevant to the matters at issue in this Motion, but GRANTS
the request as to Item Nos.  4 and 5 to
the extent reference is made to records already part of this case. 
 
DISCUSSION
The purpose
of a motion for summary judgment “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut
through the parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their
allegations, trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.”  (Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co.
(2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (c), requires the trial judge
to grant summary judgment if all the evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences
reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and uncontradicted by other inferences
or evidence, show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and
that the moving party is entitled to judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992)
7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119, italics in original and quoting Code Civ. Proc., §
437c, subd. (c).)  “The function of the
pleadings in a motion for summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the
issues; the function of the affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether
there is any triable issue of fact within the issues delimited by the
pleadings.”  (Juge v. County of
Sacramento (1993) 12 Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v.
Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 381-382.)
 
“On a
motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is always on the moving party
to make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material
fact.”  (Scalf v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc.
(2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.)  A
defendant moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing
that a cause of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more
elements of the cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be
established, or that there is a complete defense to the cause of action.”  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); see
Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc., supra, 128 Cal.App.4th at p. 1520.) 
 
Once the
defendant (here the cross-defendant) has met that burden, the burden shifts to
the plaintiff (here the cross-complainant) “to show that a triable issue of one
or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 437c, subd. (p)(2).)  To establish a triable issue of
material fact, the party opposing the motion “shall not rely upon the
allegations or denials of its pleadings to show that a triable issue of
material fact exists but, instead, shall set forth the specific facts showing
that a triable issue of material fact exists as to the cause of action or a
defense thereto.”  (Ibid.; see Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68 Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
 
Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006)
39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
 
Here, the Mutual
Non-Disclosure Agreement (“NDA”) upon which the Cross-Complaint is based was
purportedly entered into by and between Baek and Tishbi.  It provides in relevant part:
 
Section 6 –
Other Provisions.
(a)  
 Accounts Payable of Baek
(not to exceed $2,600,000) will be paid 
by Curious Apparel within 6 months
of the execution date of this NDA.
Beginning 05/24/2019, $500,000 will
be paid and balance within the next
five (5) months.
(b)   Initial investment of Baek (not to exceed
$3,000,000) will be paid
by Curious Apparel within 36 months
of the execution of this NDA.
(c)  
Accounts Payable and initial investment amount shall be paid
based on audited financial numbers
and final figure will be agreed upon
between the parties.
(d)   Execution of this contract releases Baek of
any ownership
interest in multiple entities
including but not limited to Curious
Apparel and Boomerang Industries,
Inc.
 
(Exhibit A
to the Declaration of Elliot Tishbi in support of the Motion.)
 
Motion
Tishbi
asserts that summary judgment should be granted in his favor because undisputed
facts demonstrate that the NDA, which forms the basis of all the causes of action
in the Cross-Complaint is an unenforceable contract.  Tishbi avers that under the NDA between Baek
and Tishbi, Baek would purportedly give up ownership interest in a company
known as Curious Apparel, and in another company, Boomerang Industries, Inc. (“Boomerang”)
in exchange for money.  
 
Tishbi
contends that, as revealed during the discovery process, Baek never had any
ownership interest in Curious Apparel that could be released.  Tishbi specifically points to Baek’s
responses to certain discovery requests as indicator that Baek did not possess
any ownership interest to release.  (Cross Defendant Tishbi’s Separate Statement
of Undisputed Material Facts in Support of Motion for Summary Judgment
[“SSUF”], Nos. 12, 13.)  Additionally,
Tishbi notes that Baek’s deposition testimony suggested he was merely a
short-term employee at Curious Apparel and that he never held any ownership
interest in the company.  (SSUF Nos. 14,
15.)  Tishbi asserts that the NDA
therefore lacks consideration since Baek has failed to provide any evidence
demonstrating an ownership interest in Curious Apparel or Boomerang, which he
was required to release under the NDA.
            
Tishbi
further claims that any purported promise to pay money under the NDA was
illusory, since the language of the NDA provides for a future agreement, i.e.,
a “final figure to be agreed upon between the parties.”  (SSUF No. 28.)  Thus, Tishbi contends that the NDA is
unenforceable.
 
Opposition
In his opposition,
Baek asserts that he has or had[1]
an ownership interest in Curious Apparel and submits in evidence a Partnership
Agreement purportedly entered into by and between Baek, Stephen Jung and Ben
Cho for the purpose of forming a partnership. 
(Declaration of Seung Jae Baek [“Baek Decl.”], ¶ 10, Exh. 3.)  The Partnership Agreement identifies the name
of the partnership as “Curious Apparel.” 
Under Section 5 thereof, it provides:
 
5. Capital  
The initial capital and ownership interest of the partnership
shall be allocated as follows:
Partner Amount Invested Ownership Interest (%)
Stephen Jairyun Jung:             47.5%
Andrew Bak:                           47.5%
Ben Cho:                                 5%
 
The partners shall contribute in proportionate shares any
additional capital they may deem necessary for the operation of the business.
 
(Baek Decl., Exh. 3.)
 
 
            Baek asserts
that Tishbi’s promise to pay him the accounts payable and his initial
investment was not illusory.  He avers
that Tishbi promised to pay him the unpaid balance after the financial audit,
which was finished on August 19, 2019. 
Tishbi, however, did not pay him, and that when Baek demanded payment,
Tisbhi responded stating “You have your protection.  You have an Agreement, that’s very good for
you.”  (Baek Decl., ¶ 27, Exh. 8.)  He submits in evidence a screenshot of a
purported exchange of text messages between Tishbi and Baek, where Tishbi appears
to give assurance to Baek that Baek was protected as he had the agreement,
purportedly referring to the NDA.  (Id.)  
 
            Baek
also explains that in providing his responses to Tishbi’s discovery requests
pertaining to ownership interests in the subject entities, he had misunderstood
the question based on his supposition that “I [Baek] as an individual could not
have individually owned legal ENTITIES at law.” 
(Baek Decl., ¶ 18.)  Again, the
meaning of this representation is unclear to the Court; however, as Baek is
self-represented, the Court interprets this statement as meaning to state that Baek
had understood that an individual cannot own an entity such as a
partnership.  While this is not a correct
statement of the law, it does provide a reason why a person might incorrectly
answer an interrogatory.
 
Reply
            In
reply, Tishbi argues that the Partnership Agreement, which Baek cites to
support his claim of ownership interest in Curious Apparel, should be excluded
as evidence. Tishbi asserts this is warranted because Baek submitted the
document in his opposition, despite having previously confirmed in his
discovery responses that he did not possess any ownership interest in Curious
Apparel.  Tishbi contends that this
evidence should be rejected because it was not produced during discovery and it
contradicts Baek’s verified discovery responses and deposition testimony.  Tishbi also asserts that even if Baek’s
evidence of the Partnership Agreement is considered, the NDA remains
unenforceable for lack of consideration because Tishbi’s purported promise is
illusory.
 
Baek’s Contradictory Discovery Responses 
Under the D’Amico rule, a
trial court may disregard declarations by a party that contradict their own
discovery responses unless there is a reasonable explanation for the
discrepancy.  
(Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, citing D’Amico
v. Board of Medical Examiners (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510.)  For example, in   Whitmire v. Ingersoll-Rand Co., the
court disregarded a declaration that contradicted prior interrogatory responses
because no explanation for the contradiction was provided.  (Whitmire v. Ingersoll-Rand Co. (2010) 184
Cal.App.4th 1078.)  Courts, however, have
consistently refused to apply the D’Amico rule to exclude evidence if
the evidence subsequently adduced credibly explains or contradicts a party’s
earlier admissions.  For instance,
in   Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc,
the court noted that the D’Amico rule does not countenance ignoring
other credible evidence that contradicts or explains a party’s answers or
demonstrates genuine issues of factual dispute.  (Scalf v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128
Cal.App.4th 1510.)
 
For summary judgment purposes,
deposition answers are simply evidence.  Subject to the self-impeachment limitations of
D’Amico, they are considered and weighed in conjunction with other
evidence.  They do not constitute
incontrovertible judicial admissions.  D’Amico
has never stood for the proposition that highly inculpatory testimony elicited
from a party in a deposition may be sufficient by itself to warrant summary
judgment, or that it relieves the moving party of its ordinary burden of
showing the absence of a genuine factual dispute.  (Scalf, supra, at 1522-1523; Niederer
v. Ferreira (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 1485 at p. 1503 [apparent contradiction
between plaintiff’s declaration and her deposition testimony may be explained
by her supplemental declaration and other evidence; D’Amico rule does
not extend to mistaken legal conclusions.].)
 
“The purpose of the summary judgment
procedure is not to try the issues but merely to discover ... whether the
parties possess evidence which demands the analysis of trial.”  (Colvin v. City of Gardena (1992) 11
Cal.App.4th 1270, 1275.)  While the D’Amico
rule permits a trial court to disregard declarations by a party which
contradict his or her own discovery responses (absent a reasonable explanation
for the discrepancy), it does not countenance ignoring other credible evidence
that contradicts or explains that party’s answers or otherwise demonstrates
there are genuine issues of factual dispute.  (Scalf, supra, at 1525, citing People
ex rel. Dept. of Transportation v. Ad Way Signs, Inc. (1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
187, 200.)  
 
Thus, in Scalf, the Court of
Appeal concluded that the trial court abused its discretion in declining to
consider evidence in opposition to the motion for summary judgment in conflict
with Scalf’s deposition statements or evidence which otherwise disclosed the
presence of triable issues of fact.  (Id.)  Here, the Court concludes that Baek’s seemingly
contradictory discovery and deposition responses did not carry Tishbi’s burden
of demonstrating the absence of a factual dispute, considering that Baek, who
is in pro per, not only explained his misunderstanding of the questions
in the discovery requests, but also presented evidence that creates a factual
dispute as to the issue of whether he held an ownership interest in the subject
entity.  
 
“In reviewing the evidence, we
strictly construe the moving party’s evidence and liberally construe the
opposing party’s and accept as undisputed only those portions of the moving
party’s evidence that are uncontradicted.”  (Herberg v. California Institute of the
Arts (2002) 101 Cal.App.4th 142, 148.) 
“Only when the inferences are indisputable may the court decide the
issues as a matter of law.  If the
evidence is in conflict, the factual issues must be resolved by trial.  ‘Any doubts about the propriety of summary
judgment ... are generally resolved against granting the motion, because that
allows the future development of the case and avoids errors.’ ”  (Binder v. Aetna Life Ins. Co. (1999)
75 Cal.App.4th 832, 839.)
 
Accordingly, the Court shall proceed
to consider the Partnership Agreement as evidence, which creates a factual
dispute as to Baek’s purported ownership interest in Curious Apparel, and
consequently on the enforceability of the NDA.
 
Tishbi’s Promise to Pay Was Not Illusory
A
contract must be sufficiently definite for a court to ascertain the parties’
obligations and determine whether those obligations have been performed or
breached.  If the terms are too vague or
leave essential elements to future agreement without a clear standard, the
contract may be deemed unenforceable (Bustamante v. Intuit, Inc. (2006)141
Cal.App.4th 199.)
 
When
a contract includes terms that require satisfaction or agreement between
parties, however, courts often imply a requirement of reasonableness or good
faith to avoid rendering the contract illusory.  For example, if a condition precedent to
performance calls for satisfaction as to commercial value, the promisor’s
ability to claim dissatisfaction is limited by the standard of reasonableness,
making the contract not illusory.  (Storek
& Storek, Inc. v. Citicorp Real Estate, Inc. (2006) 100 Cal.App.4th 44.)
 Similarly, a promise conditional upon
the promisor’s satisfaction is not illusory if it requires an honest judgment.  (Mattei v. Hopper (1958) 51 Cal.2d 119.)
 
Thus,
a promise in a contract is considered illusory if it does not bind the promisor
to any definite obligation, leaving performance entirely at the promisor’s
discretion.  Here,
however, agreement to pay under the NDA is “based on audited financial numbers”
is sufficiently definite and is therefore enforceable.  Notwithstanding that the amount is to be
determined at a future time, it is not illusory as the agreement does not leave
essential terms for future determination without a clear standard, and the
performance is not entirely at the promisor’s discretion.  Therefore, Tishbi’s future promise to pay is
not a basis for declaring the NDA unenforceable.
 
            In sum, the Court finds there are
triable issues of material fact, and thus Tishbi is not entitled to judgment as
a matter of law.
 
RULING
            Accordingly, the Motion is DENIED.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 13th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 






