 Case Number:  24STCV09542    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  56  
 
 
SUPERIOR
COURT OF THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR
THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



ROBERT SYKES, as
  an individual and on
behalf of all employees similarly
  situated, 


                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
 
MACY’S RETAIL HOLDINGS, LLC, dba
MACY’S, an Ohio Limited Liability
  Company; MACY’S, INC., a Delaware Corporation; and DOES 1 through 50,
  inclusive, 
                                                                             
  
                        Defendants.                
 
               


 


     
  CASE NO.:  24STCV09543
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE: 
MOTION TO COMPEL ARBITRATION OF
  PLAINTIFF’S INDIVIDUAL PAGA CLAIMS AND THE DISPUTE/CONTROVERSY OF WHETHER
  PLAINTIFF IS AN AGGRIEVED EMPLOYEE UNDER PAGA AND TO STAY NON-INDIVIDUAL PAGA
  CLAIMS
 
Date: November 13, 2024
Time: 8:30 a.m.
Dept. 56
 
 



 
MOVING PARTY: Defendants
Macy’s Retail Holdings, LLC and Macy’s, Inc. (collectively,
“Defendants”)
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff
Robert Sykes (“Plaintiff” or “Sykes”)
 
            The Court has considered the moving,
opposition and reply papers. 


 
BACKGROUND
             On April 16, 2024, Plaintiff filed the present
complaint for civil penalties under the Private Attorneys General Act of 2004,
Cal. Lab. Code § 2698 et seq., alleging Labor Code violations by
Defendants.
 
            On June 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed an
application requesting the dismissal without prejudice of his alleged PAGA
individual claim against Defendants and to proceed with litigating his PAGA
representative claim.  
 
            On July 10, 2024, Defendants filed a
Motion to Compel Arbitration of Plaintiff’s Individual Paga Claims and Stay
Non-Individual Paga Claims.  On July 11,
2024, the Court granted Plaintiff’s request to dismiss his individual PAGA
claims.  On August 8, 2024, Defendants
then filed an Amended Motion to Compel Arbitration of Plaintiff’s Individual
Paga Claims and the Dispute/Controversy of Whether Plaintiff is an Aggrieved
Employee Under PAGA and to Stay Non-Individual Paga Claims (the “Motion”).  Plaintiff filed an opposition to the Motion on
October 30, 2024, and Defendants filed a reply to Plaintiff’s opposition on November
5, 2024.
 
JUDICIAL NOTICE  
            Plaintiff
requests judicial notice of the following documents:
1.    
Order dismissing Plaintiff’s individual PAGA claim
against Defendants without
Prejudice (Exhibit A);
2. Order denying petition for writ of mandate
(Exhibit B); and
3.  Order
denying Defendant’s motion to compel arbitration of individual PAGA claim  and stay representative action in Pass v.
Del Amo Hospital, Inc., Case No. 24STCV03085, Los Angeles Superior Court (Exhibit
C).
 
The
Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s request as to Exhibits A and B, although unnecessary,
as these are already part of the records of this case.  As for Exhibit C, the Court takes judicial
notice of its existence, but not of the truth of assertions within.  (Evid. Code, § 452(c), (d); Herrera v.
Deutsche Bank National Trust Co. (2011) 196 Cal.App.4th 1366, 1375.) 
 
EVIDENTIARY OBJECTIONS 
             Defendants object to and oppose Exhibit C to
Plaintiff’s Request for Judicial Notice (“RJN”). Exhibit C to Plaintiff’s RJN pertains
to an Order in Pass v. Del Amo Hospital, Inc. Case No. 24STCV03085, Los
Angeles Superior Court.  The Court merely
takes judicial notice of its existence, not as to its contents or to the truth
thereof.
 
DISCUSSION
Standard 
“California law reflects a strong public policy in
favor of arbitration as a relatively quick and inexpensive method for resolving
disputes.  To further that policy,
section 1281.2 requires a trial court to enforce a written arbitration
agreement unless one of three limited exceptions applies.  Those statutory exceptions arise where (1) a
party waives the right to arbitration; (2) grounds exist for revoking the
arbitration agreement; and (3) pending litigation with a third party creates
the possibility of conflicting rulings on common factual or legal issues.”  (Acquire II, Ltd. v. Colton Real Estate
Group (2013) 213 Cal.App.4th 959, 967; Code Civ. Proc., § 1281.2.)  
 
In deciding a petition to compel arbitration, trial
courts must decide first whether an enforceable arbitration agreement exists
between the parties, and then determine the second gateway issue whether the
claims are covered within the scope of the agreement.  (Omar v. Ralphs Grocery Co. (2004) 118
Cal.App.4th 955, 961.)  The opposing
party has the burden to establish any defense to enforcement.  (Gatton v. T-Mobile USA, Inc. (2007)
152 Cal.App.4th 571, 579 [“The petitioner, T–Mobile here, bears the burden of
proving the existence of a valid arbitration agreement and the opposing party,
plaintiffs here, bears the burden of proving any fact necessary to its
defense.”].)  
 
Procedurally, a petition to compel arbitration or
stay proceedings must state verbatim the provisions providing for arbitration,
or must have a copy of them attached. 
(Cal. R. Ct., rule 3.1330.)  
 
Existence of Arbitration Agreement 
“With respect to the moving party’s burden to
provide evidence of the existence of an agreement to arbitrate, it is generally
sufficient for that party to present a copy of the contract to the court.”  (Baker v. Italian Maple Holdings, LLC
(2017) 13 Cal.App.5th 1152, 1160.)
 
Here, Defendants present evidence that on October
31, 2023, at the outset of his employment with Defendants, Sykes viewed and
electronically signed the Solutions InSTORE New Hire Acknowledgement.  (Declaration of Nicolas Moreau [“Moreau
Decl.”, Exh. C; Declaration of Cynthia Ripak [“Ripak Decl.”], Exh. B.)  By electronically signing the New Hire
Acknowledgement, Sykes attested that:
 
I understand that if I do
not opt out of Step 4 – Arbitration, any disputes or claims relating to my
employment, other than those expressly excluded from arbitration in the Plan
Document, will be resolved in individual arbitration as described in the
brochure and Plan Document.  I understand
that individual arbitration continues to apply to such employment-related
disputes even after my employment ends.
 
(Moreau
Decl., Exh. C; Ripak Decl., Exh. B.)
 
            Sykes was informed about the
Solutions InSTORE Program, the arbitration component of the Program (Step
4-Arbitration), and was notified, through a variety of means, of his right to
opt out of arbitration by submitting an Election Form within thirty (30) days
of his hire.  (Ripak Decl., ¶ 17.)  Sykes did not return an opt-out Election Form
within thirty (30) days of his hire. 
(Ripak Decl., ¶ 29.)
 
Burden on
the Opposing Party to Establish Any Defense to Enforcement
            Because
Defendants have established the existence of a valid and binding arbitration agreement,
the burden shifts to Plaintiff as the party opposing arbitration, to show why
the agreement should not be enforced.  
 
In his opposition, Plaintiff does not dispute that
he entered into the arbitration agreement. 
Plaintiff contends, however, that the Motion should be denied as
Defendants cannot compel to arbitration PAGA individual claims which currently
do not exist in this action.  Plaintiff
also asserts that he has sufficiently alleged standing to prosecute representative
PAGA claims under Balderas v. Fresh Start Harvesting, Inc. (2024) 101
Cal.App.5th 533, which reversed an order striking a PAGA pleading for lack of an
individual PAGA claim.  Plaintiff thus
contends that he cannot be compelled to arbitrate his non-individual claims. 
 
Defendants
argue, on the other hand, that although Plaintiff seeks only to prosecute
non-individual PAGA claims, under Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc.
(2023) 14 Cal.5th 1104, 1127 he must establish standing by proving that he
worked for the alleged violator and personally sustained at least one Labor
Code violation prior to litigating his non-individual claims.  Defendants thus contend that Sykes must
arbitrate the alleged individual Labor Code violations that he alleges make him
an “aggrieved employee” under PAGA in order to provide him standing to pursue
this PAGA action.
 
Plaintiff’s
non-individual PAGA claim is not arbitrable 
To have standing to bring a representative PAGA
claim, a plaintiff need not also allege an individual PAGA cause of action.  (Balderas v. Fresh Start Harvesting, Inc. (2024)
101 Cal.App.5th 533, 538.)  “The
inability for an employee to pursue an individual PAGA claim does not prevent
that employee from filing a representative PAGA action.”  (Balderas, supra, 101 Cal.App.5th at
537.)  Representative PAGA claims are not
derivative or dependent on a plaintiff’s individual claim for relief.  (Kim v. Reins International California,
Inc. (2020) 9 Cal.5th 73, 86.)  PAGA
standing “does not depend on maintaining an individual Labor Code violation.”  (Johnson v. Maxim Healthcare Services, Inc.
(2021) 66 Cal.App.5th 924, 930.)
 
As Adolph v. Uber Technologies, Inc. (2023)
14 Cal. 5th 1104, 1113 explicitly holds that an individual remedy is
unnecessary to possess standing to pursue PAGA penalties, it necessarily
follows that Plaintiff is not obligated to seek any individual remedy, in the
form of any “individual” PAGA penalties, to possess standing to pursue PAGA
penalties for fellow employees: 
 
As Kim and Johnson
make clear, a worker becomes an “aggrieved employee” with standing to
litigate claims on behalf of fellow employees upon sustaining a Labor Code
violation committed by his or her employer.  (See Kim, supra, 9 Cal.5th at
pp. 84–85, 259 Cal.Rptr.3d 769, 459 P.3d 1123; Johnson, supra, 66
Cal.App.5th at p. 930, 281 Cal.Rptr.3d 478; § 2699, subd. (c).)  Standing under PAGA is not affected by
enforcement of an agreement to adjudicate a plaintiff’s individual claim in
another forum.  Arbitrating a PAGA
plaintiff’s individual claim does not nullify the fact of the violation or
extinguish the plaintiff’s status as an aggrieved employee, any more than the
time-barring of remedies did in Johnson or the settlement of the
individual damages claims did in Kim. (See Kim, at pp. 84–85, 259
Cal.Rptr.3d 769, 459 P.3d 1123; Johnson, at p. 930, 281 Cal.Rptr.3d
478.) The operative complaint alleges that Adolph experienced Labor Code
violations while driving for Uber. Under Kim, Adolph’s allegations that
Labor Code violations were committed against him while he was employed by Uber
suffice to confer standing to bring a PAGA action.  
 
(Adolph, supra, 14 Cal. 5th at 1121.) 
 
To establish standing in a PAGA action, plaintiff
need only allege that he is “(1) someone who was employed by the alleged
violator and (2) someone against whom one or more of the alleged violations was
committed.”  (Adolph, supra, 14
Cal.5th at 1120 (internal quotations omitted).) Despite Labor Code Section
2699’s language stating that an employee must bring an action on behalf of himself
and other current employees, the California Supreme Court has declined to
“impose additional” standing requirements because doing so would
“thwart the Legislature's clear intent to deputize employees to pursue
sanctions on the state’s behalf.” (Id. at 1120, 1122.)
 
Here, Plaintiff has sufficiently established
standing. First, Plaintiff has alleged that he was employed by Defendants,
which Defendants do not dispute, stating in the Complaint that “Plaintiff
ROBERT SYKES worked for Defendants as a sales associate from October 19, 2023
to December 1, 2023.”  (Complaint, ¶ 15.)
 Second, Plaintiff has alleged that he is
someone against whom one or more of the alleged violations was committed,
stating in the Complaint that “[t]hroughout Plaintiff’s employment, Defendants
committed numerous labor code violations under state law” (Complaint, ¶¶ 15-32.)
 Thus, Plaintiff has standing to assert his
non-individual PAGA claim. 
 
Further, Viking River does not operate to
divest Plaintiff of standing to pursue “non-individual” PAGA claims.  Adolph
rejected that contention under California State law.  (Adolph, supra,
14 Cal.5th at 1119-1120.)  While Viking River may stand for the
proposition that Plaintiff must arbitrate an “individual” PAGA claim, so long
as he chooses to assert one, nothing in Viking River gives any court the
authority to force a plaintiff to arbitrate an individual claim that he or she
elects not to pursue, to begin with.   
 
In sum, Plaintiff has sufficiently established
standing as an employee against whom one or more of the alleged violations were
committed, and Plaintiff elects not to pursue an individual PAGA claim, instead
seeking to recover only for the “non-individual” PAGA claim.  Thus, there would be no individual claim to
refer to arbitration.  As such, Defendants’ argument that Plaintiff’s
nonexistent individual claim must be arbitrated, fails.
 
Accordingly, this Court DENIES Defendants’ Motion.
 
Moving
party is ordered to give notice of this ruling.            
 
Parties
who intend to submit on this tentative must send an email to the Court at
SMC_DEPT56@lacourt.org as directed by the instructions provided on the court
website at www.lacourt.org.  If the
department does not receive an email and there are no appearances at the
hearing, the motion will be placed off calendar.
 
Dated this 13th day of November 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Holly J.
  Fujie
Judge of the
  Superior Court
 



