 Case Number:  22STCV24684    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  13, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV24684




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Deposition of Plaintiff 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Jilbert Gharghani (Doe 1)  




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant
Jilbert Gharghani (Doe 1) (“Defendant”) moves to compel Plaintiff Sonia
Hernandez Sosa’s (“Plaintiff”) deposition.[1]
Defendant also seeks monetary sanctions. No opposition has been filed.  
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with
both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of William F. Salle, Defendant’s counsel shows that
Defendant sent a meet and confer letter to Plaintiff to schedule this
deposition following the third and final objection. Therefore, Defendant has
made a good faith effort to resolve the issue.  
 
DISCUSSION
 
On April 9, 2024, Defendant served his first deposition notice for
Plaintiff, set for April 30, 2024. (Salle Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.) On April 24,
2024, Plaintiff served an objection based on unavailability. Defendant
requested alternative dates, but none were provided; Plaintiff failed to meet
and confer. As a result, on May 2, 2024, Defendant served a second deposition
notice for May 24, 2024. (Id. ¶ 8, Exh. G.) On May 21, 2024, Plaintiff
served an objection stating it was unilaterally noticed and that she was attempting
to confirm that a claim under her uninsured motorist coverage would be accepted
by her carrier, making her deposition unnecessary. (Id. ¶ 10.) Defendant
heard nothing from Plaintiff about the status of her claim, and so noticed her
deposition on October 4, 2024, for October 21, 2024. On October 7, 2024,
Plaintiff served an objection, again based on the unilaterally set date. 
 
Plaintiff has not opposed this motion. Moreover, Plaintiff has
undermined the merit of the objection of a unilaterally set date by not working
to set an alternative date and ignoring Defendant’s attempts to meet and
confer. Therefore, the Court finds that Plaintiff has failed to proceed with
the deposition and the motion to compel is granted. 
 
Defendant requests $1,560 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and
her counsel, representing a $500 hourly rate and the $60 filing fee. The Court
finds that sanctions are warranted but the amount requested is excessive given
the type of motion, lack of opposition, and fact Defendant can appear at the
hearing remotely. Therefore, the Court grants monetary sanctions in the amount
of $1,060 (2 hours of attorney time, plus the filing fee).
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition is GRANTED. Plaintiff Sonia Hernandez
Sosa shall appear within 10 days’ notice of this order for a deposition.
 
The Court further grants Defendant’s request for monetary sanctions in
the reduced amount of $1,060.00 against Plaintiff and her counsel of record,
jointly and severally. Said monetary sanctions shall be paid to counsel for
Defendant within 30 days of this order. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 


