 Case Number:  21STCV36211    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  13, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV36211




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel the Deposition of Plaintiff




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Luke Mitchell Crawford 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendant
Luke Mitchell Crawford (“Defendant”) moves to compel Plaintiff Xochitl Alvarez
Espindola’s (“Plaintiff”) deposition. Defendant does not seek monetary
sanctions. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action . . . , without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410,
fails to appear for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for
inspection any document . . . described in the deposition notice, the party
giving the notice may move for an order compelling the deponent’s attendance
and testimony, and the production for inspection of any document . . .
described in the deposition notice.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (a).) 
 
“A motion under subdivision (a) [above] shall comply with
both of the following: 
 
1. The motion
shall set forth specific facts showing good cause justifying the production for
inspection of any document, electronically stored information, or tangible
thing described in the deposition notice. 
2. The motion
shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040,
or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition and produce the documents,
electronically stored information, or things described in the deposition
notice, by a declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent
to inquire about the nonappearance.” 
 
(Code Civ.
Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b).) 
 
If a motion is granted, the court shall impose a monetary
sanction in favor of that party unless the court finds that the one subject to
the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other circumstances
make the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2025.450 (g).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
On August 29, 2024, Plaintiff filed a Substitution of Attorney form
stating she was now representing herself. 
 
On September 20, 2024, Defendant served Plaintiff with a notice of
deposition for October 7, 2024, via mail. (Shafizadeh Decl. ¶ 4, Exh. B.)
Plaintiff did not serve an objection and did not appear for the deposition. A
certificate of non-appearance was obtained. (Id., Exh. C.) 
 
On October 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed and signed a “Consent to
Electronic Service.” Plaintiff has received electronic notice of this motion
and has not filed an opposition. Therefore, because Plaintiff failed to timely
object to the October 7, 2024 deposition, and failed to appear, the motion to
compel is granted. The Court declines to award monetary sanctions since none
are sought. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant’s
motion to compel Plaintiff’s deposition is GRANTED. Plaintiff Xochitl Alvarez
Espindola shall appear within 30 days’ notice of this order for a deposition.
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file a proof
of service of such. 
 