 Case Number:  23STCV19129    Hearing Date:   November 13, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  7, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV19129




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel the Deposition of Plaintiff Enedino Espinoza 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Target Corporation




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Enedino Espinoza 



 
BACKGROUND
 
This
action stems from a stabbing at a Target store. Two related cases were filed by
victims of the stabbing (“Molina case” and “Song” case). The assailant
was eventually shot and subdued by Plaintiff Enedino Espinoza (“Plaintiff”) in
the instant case, while working as a Watermark Security guard.
 
Defendant Target Corporation (“Defendant”) now moves to compel the
deposition of Plaintiff in this action. Defendant seeks monetary sanctions. Plaintiff
opposes and also seeks monetary sanctions. Defendant replies. Co-defendants BOP
Figat7th LLC and Universal Protection Service, LP have filed Notice of Joinders
to this motion. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2025.450(a) provides: “If, after service of a deposition notice, a party to the
action or an officer, director, managing agent, or employee of a party, or a
person designated by an organization that is a party under Section 2025.230,
without having served a valid objection under Section 2025.410, fails to appear
for examination, or to proceed with it, or to produce for inspection any
document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in the
deposition notice, the party giving the notice may move for an order compelling
the deponent's attendance and testimony, and the production for inspection of
any document, electronically stored information, or tangible thing described in
the deposition notice.”¿ Section 2025.450 requires the Court to compel the
deposition unless it finds a valid objection was served under section
2025.410.¿ 
¿ 
A motion brought to compel a
deposition “shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section
2016.040, or, when the deponent fails to attend the deposition … by a
declaration stating that the petitioner has contacted the deponent to inquire
about the nonappearance.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (b)(2).)¿¿ 
¿¿ 
If a motion to compel deposition
is granted, sanctions are mandatory in favor of the party who noticed the
deposition and against the deponent or the party with whom the deponent is
affiliated, unless the court finds that the one subject to the sanction acted
with substantial justification or that other circumstances make the imposition
of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.450, subd. (g)(1).)¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Jessica Farley states that after Plaintiff served
his objection to the deposition, “[o]n October 7th, I reached out to plaintiff
to meet and confer; however, no response was received.” (Farley Decl. ¶ 11.)[1]
 
DISCUSSION
 
Here, Defendant asserts that
Plaintiff was deposed in the Molina and Song cases on June 29,
2024 for less than seven hours, but that the parties stipulated to depose
Plaintiff again for the instant case. (Farley Decl. ¶ 3-5, Exh. 1.) Defendant
asserts the agreement was that the parties would not repeat their questioning,
and the time would be limited to seven hours total, absent a request for
additional time from the Court. During Plaintiff’s June 29, 2024, Defendant did
not question Plaintiff about his claims against it. (Id. ¶ 6.) 
 
On September 27, 2024, Defendant
served a deposition notice on Plaintiff for October 8, 2024. (Farley Decl. ¶ 7,
Exh. 2.) On October 3, 2024, Plaintiff served an objection stating, among other
things, that Plaintiff only agreed to one deposition, Plaintiff and his
attorneys were unavailable, and not all parties were served. (Id. ¶ 9,
Exh. 4.) The objection appears to assert that the deposition was noticed for
the Molina/Song cases, and therefore is improper. (Id., ¶ 2.)
 
In opposition, Plaintiff argues
primarily that Defendant cannot take another deposition, but also argues the
notice was defective. Defendant’s deposition notice does not contain a proof of
service (See Exh. 2), however Plaintiff asserts it was served on September 27,
2024, and therefore, Plaintiff did not receive mandatory notice. (Opp., 2, 5, 8.)

 
“An oral deposition shall be
scheduled for a date at least 10 days after service of the deposition notice.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2025.270, subd. (a).) Ten days before the deposition was September
28, 2024, a Saturday. Two Court days before that (to account for electronic
service) was September 25, 2024.  Defendant
does not address this is reply. Therefore, it appears that the notice was
untimely. 
 
Nevertheless,
Plaintiff primarily argues that he only agreed to one deposition, and that he
was already cross-examined by Defendant’s counsel.[2] 
 
Here, the stipulation, which was
signed by Plaintiff’s counsel on March 25, 2024, states in relevant part, the
following:
 
“The parties agree that Enedino
Espinoza will be deposed as a percipient witness in connection with Molina v.
Target Corporation, Case No. 23STCV06764 (the “Molina action”) and Song v.
Target Corporation, Case No. 23STCV06788 (the “Song action”) on a mutually
agreeable date, with topics for examination to include the facts surrounding
the subject incident and events leading up to it, including any topics
pertaining to prior notice of dangerous conditions (the “Song/Molina
Deposition”). The parties to Espinoza v. Target Corporation, Case No.
23STCV19129 (the “Espinoza action”) agree that upon notice by one or more
parties to the Espinoza action, Mr. Espinoza will be deposed on a separate
mutually agreeable date in connection with his affirmative claims in the
Espinoza action, with topics for examination to include his alleged damages and
the Espinoza defendants’ alleged liability in connection with Mr. Espinoza’s
affirmative claims (the “Espinoza Deposition”). The parties agree that
questions asked during the Molina/Song Deposition cannot be asked again during
the Espinoza Deposition. All deposing parties agree to make a good faith effort
to complete examination of Mr. Espinoza within a total of seven hours during
the Molina/Song Deposition and the Espinoza Deposition.”
(Farley Decl., Exh. 1, ¶¶ 1-4.) 
 
Plaintiff’s
counsel disputes signing this stipulation.[3]
(Rand-Lewis Decl. ¶ 12, 18.) Plaintiff also asserts that at a March 13, 2024
informal discovery conference (“IDC”), the Court recommended one deposition.[4] (Id.
¶ 13.) 
 
As the Court
previously noted in its June 25, 2024 order in the Molina/ Song matter, Espinoza
has not provided any authority for the argument that only one deposition may be
permitted, even though there were two separate (albeit related) cases. (See
Min. Order Case 23STCV06764 6/25/24.)[5]
Although the Court had encouraged the parties to attempt to complete the
deposition in one 7-hour session, the Court indicated that it would hear any
necessary further motion about a second deposition at an appropriate time. (See
id.) The Court also rejected Espinoza’s argument regarding deposition
priority. (See id.) Here, Defendant has established that relevant topics
remain that had not been addressed in the first deposition. (See Motion at p.
4.) Accordingly, the Court finds that a second deposition is warranted.
 
However, because
Defendant has not shown that the original deposition notice was timely served,
the motion to compel is denied. The Court declines to award sanctions, finding
that Defendant acted with substantial justification. (Code Civ. Proc., §
2023.030, subd. (a).) The parties are ordered to meet and confer to discuss the
estimated time of a second deposition and the general topics that remain. To
the extent further disputes remain, the parties shall participate in an
informal discovery conference. Five days prior to any scheduled informal
discovery conference, the parties shall file and serve a joint status report
indicating the specific dispute and the parties’ respective positions,
including citations to any deposition transcript, if applicable, and attaching
a copy of the transcript.
 
CONCLUSION AND
ORDER
 
Accordingly, the motion to compel the
Deposition of Plaintiff is DENIED. 
 
            Defendant shall give notice of the
Court’s ruling and file a proof of service.


