  Case Number:  23PSCV02568    Hearing Date:   December 11, 2023    Dept:  6 CASE NAME: Veda
Scott v. John Stewart Company
1.     
Defendant
John Stewart Company’s Demurrer to Plaintiff’s Complaint; and
2.     
Defendant
John Stewart Company’s Motion to Strike Plaintiff’s Complaint 
TENTATIVE
RULING
            The Court SUSTAINS the Demurrer to
the First, Second and Third Causes of Action of the Complaint with leave to
amend. 
            The Court DENIES the motion to
strike as moot. 
            Plaintiff is ordered to file and
serve an amended pleading and provide proof of service of same within twenty calendar
days of the Court’s order. 
BACKGROUND
On August 24, 2023, plaintiff Veda Scott (Plaintiff) filed this
action against defendant John Stewart Company (Defendant), alleging causes of
action for “elderly abuse fraudulent charges,” “dirty conditions in senior
living that they manage,” and “stress and duress, retaliation three day notice.” 
On November 9, 2023, Defendant filed a demurrer and motion to
strike to the Complaint. No opposition has been filed. 
LEGAL
STANDARD - Demurrer
A
demurrer is a pleading used to test the legal sufficiency of other
pleadings. It raises issues of law, not fact, regarding the form or
content of the opposing party's pleading (complaint, answer or
cross-complaint). (Code Civ. Proc., § 422.10; see Donabedian v.
Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.) It is not the function
of the demurrer to challenge the truthfulness of the complaint; and for
purposes of ruling on the demurrer, all facts pleaded in the complaint are
assumed to be true. (Id.)  
A
demurrer can be used only to challenge defects that appear on the face of the
pleading under attack; or from matters outside the pleading that are judicially
noticeable. (Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318; Donabedian,
supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at p. 994.) No other extrinsic evidence can be
considered. (Ion Equip. Corp. v. Nelson (1980) 110 Cal.App.3d 868,
881 [error for court to consider facts asserted in memorandum supporting
demurrer]; see also Afuso v. United States Fid. & Guar. Co. (1985) 169 Cal.App.3d 859, 862, disapproved on other grounds in Moradi-Shalal
v. Fireman’s Fund Ins. Cos. (1988) 46 Cal.3d 287 [error to consider
contents of release not part of court record].)  
A
demurrer can be utilized where the “face of the complaint” itself is incomplete
or discloses some defense that would bar recovery. (Guardian North Bay, Inc.
v. Superior Court (2001) 94 Cal.App.4th 963, 971-972.) The “face of
the complaint” includes material contained in attached exhibits that are
incorporated by reference into the complaint, or in a superseded complaint in the same action. (Frantz v.
Blackwell (1987) 189 Cal.App.3d 91, 94; see also Barnett v. Fireman’s
Fund Ins. Co. (2001) 90 Cal.App.4th 500, 505 [“[W]e rely on and accept as true the contents of the exhibits and treat as
surplusage the pleader’s allegations as to the legal effect of the exhibits.”])  
A demurrer
can only be sustained when it disposes of an entire cause of action. (Poizner
v. Fremont General Corp. (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119; Kong v. City of
Hawaiian Gardens Redev. Agency (2003) 108
Cal.App.4th 1028, 1046.) 
PRELIMINARY ISSUE
            A demurrer and motion to strike generally must be served at
least 16 court days before the hearing on those motions. (Code Civ. Proc., §
1005, subd. (b).) That deadline is extended by five days if they are served by
mail. (Id.) The hearing date for the demurrer and motion to strike is
December 11, 2023. Under Code of Civil Procedure section 1005, subdivision (b),
sixteen court days would create a filing and service deadline of November 15,
2023. (Code Civ. Proc., § 1005, subd. (b).) Service by mail changes the
deadline to November 10, 2023. (Id.) 
Defendant
did not timely file the demurrer or motion to strike with the Court. Defendant
served the demurrer and motion to strike on Plaintiff by mail on November 9,
2023, (see Proofs of Service attached to Demurrer and Motion to Strike),[1] but did not file those motions with the Court until November
16, 2023. Nevertheless, Plaintiff has not opposed the motion and did not raise
any objections on this issue, so the argument is waived. (Holden v. City of
San Diego (2019) 43 Cal.App.5th 404, 418; C. Opposing the Motion—and
Rebutting the Opposition, Cal. Prac. Guide Civ. Pro. Before Trial Ch. 9(I)-C, ¶¿9:105.10; see
also Carlton v. Quint (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 690, 697 ["[T]he
appearance of a party at the hearing of a motion and his or her opposition to
the motion on its merits is a waiver of any defects or irregularities in the
notice of motion.") Regardless, the Court admonishes Defendant to comply
with the timing requirements of the Code of Civil Procedure going forward. 
However,
the Court also notes that the notice states that the hearing will take place in
Department 6, at 111 N. Hill Street, Los Angeles, CA. This matter is set for
hearing in Department 6, at 1427 West Covina Parkway, West Covina, CA. Thus,
notice was not properly given. The Court will address this issue at the hearing
depending on whether or not Plaintiff appears. Notwithstanding the incorrect
address, Plaintiff did not file any opposition to the demurrer or motion to
strike and Plaintiff filed this action and was given notice upon filing that
the case was assigned for all purposes to Department 6 in West Covina. 
DISCUSSION –
Demurrer
Meet and Confer
Per Code of Civil Procedure section
430.41, subdivision (a), Defendant was required to meet and confer before
bringing this demurrer. (Code Civ. Proc., § 430.41, subd. (a).) The Court finds
Defendant’s efforts to meet and confer to be sufficient. (Cain Decl., ¶ 3.) 
First Cause of Action – Elderly
Abuse Fraudulent Charges
To state a cause of action for financial elder abuse, the
plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating the defendant has taken, secreted,
appropriated, or retained “real or
personal property
of an elder adult
to a wrongful
use or with an intent
to defraud, or both. A
wrongful use is defined as taking, secreting, appropriating, or retaining
property in bad faith. Bad faith occurs where the person or entity knew or
should have known that the elder had the right to have the property transferred
or made readily available to the elder or to his or her representative. (Welf.
& Inst. Code, § 15610.30.)” (Teselle v. McLoughlin
(2009) 173 Cal.App.4th 156, 174.) Elder abuse claims must be pleaded with
particularity. (Covenant Care, Inc. v. Superior Court (2004) 32 Cal.4th
771, 790.) 
            Defendant demurs to Plaintiff’s
first cause of action for elder abuse on the grounds that the Complaint fails
to allege facts that state a cause of action and is uncertain. Defendant
contends the facts as alleged in the Complaint do not warrant a cause of action
for financial elder abuse, as it contains no evidence that Defendant took or
retained any property belonging to Plaintiff. The Court agrees. 
            The extent of Plaintiff’s
allegations are essentially that Defendant installed solar panels on the roof
of the “Senior Complex” and later billed Plaintiff for it in the amount of
$325.00. (Compl., ¶ 3.) The Complaint does not allege that she owns the
property where the solar panels were installed. The Court also notes that the Complaint does not allege Plaintiff’s age
to demonstrate that she is an elder for purposes of an elder abuse claim. (See
Welf. & Inst. Code § 15610.27.) The remaining allegations are
unclear as to what Plaintiff means or as to how such allegations are relevant
to Plaintiff’s claim for elder abuse. Therefore, the Complaint fails to plead
facts with the requisite particularity to state a cause of action for elder
abuse. (See Carter, supra, 198 Cal.App.4th at pp. 406-407.) 
Accordingly, the Court SUSTAINS the demurrer to the First Cause of
Action with leave to amend. 
Second Cause of Action – Dirty Conditions in Senior Living That
They Manage
To state a cause of action for breach of the implied
warranty of habitability, the plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating, “the
existence of a material defective condition affecting the premises'
habitability, notice to the landlord of the condition within a reasonable time
after the tenant's discovery of the condition, the landlord was given a
reasonable time to correct the deficiency, and resulting damages.” (Peviani v. Arbors at California Oaks Prop. Owner, LLC (2021) 62 Cal.App.5th 874, 891.) 
Defendant demurs to the Second Cause of Action for
“dirty conditions” on the grounds that it fails to state facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action and is uncertain. Defendant contends there is no
cause of action for “dirty conditions.” Defendant further contends that to the
extent Plaintiff is attempting to allege breach of the implied warranty of
habitability, this cause of action fails because the Complaint fails to allege
that she advised Defendant of the allegedly dirty living conditions and that
Defendant had an opportunity to cure it. Defendant also contends that the
Complaint does not allege facts showing that the dirty living conditions are so
material that they affect the premises’ habitability. The Court agrees. 
Defendant correctly asserts that there is no such
cause of action known as “dirty conditions.” However, the label of the cause of
action is irrelevant; what matters is whether the facts alleged state a cause
of action. (Alfaro v. Community Housing Improvement System & Planning
Assn., Inc. (2009) 171 Cal.App.4th 1356, 1371.) The Court reads Plaintiff’s
allegations as a cause of action for breach of the implied warranty of
habitability. Nevertheless, Defendant is also correct that the Complaint fails
to allege facts describing the uninhabitable living conditions, that Plaintiff
gave Defendant notice of any alleged dirty living conditions and whether such
dirty living conditions were material defects. (See Compl., ¶ 4; Peviani,
supra, 62 Cal.App.5th at p. 891.) 
Based on the foregoing, the Court SUSTAINS the
demurrer as to the Second Cause of Action with leave to amend. 
Third Cause of Action – Stress and Duress, Retaliation
Three Day Notice 
Civil Code Section 1942.5, subdivision (c) creates a
cause of action against a landlord who “bring[s] an action to recover
possession … for the purpose of retaliating against the lessee because he or
she has lawfully organized or participated in a lessees' association or an
organization advocating lessees' rights or has lawfully and peaceably exercised
any rights under the law.” Subdivision (f) of the statute states, “Any lessor
or agent of a lessor who violates this section shall be liable to the lessee in
a civil action for all of the following: (1) The actual damages sustained by
the lessee. (2) Punitive damages in an amount of not less than one hundred
dollars ($100) nor more than two thousand dollars ($2,000) for each retaliatory
act where the lessor or agent has been guilty of fraud, oppression, or malice
with respect to that act.” The landlord can defend against an action for
retaliatory eviction by showing that it acted for “any lawful cause” (§ 1942.5,
subd. (d)) or “in good faith” (id., subd. (e)). 
Banuelos v. LA Investment, LLC (2013) 219 Cal.App.4th 323, 328. 
                In addition to a
statutory cause of action for retaliatory eviction, a common law cause of
action exists as well. (Banuelos, supra, 219 Cal.App.4th at p. 328.) To
state a common law cause of action for retaliatory eviction, a plaintiff must
allege facts demonstrating that the landlord’s conduct caused the tenant to
involuntarily vacate the property. (Id.)           
            Defendant demurs to the Third Cause
of Action for harassment and retaliation on the grounds that it fails to state
a cause of action and is uncertain. Defendant contends it is unable to respond
to the allegations of the Complaint because they are incomprehensible.
Defendant contends it is unclear whether Plaintiff’s claim for retaliation is
the statutory version or the common law version, and notes that it is unclear
whether Plaintiff has alleged that she has been involuntarily evicted from the
premises. The Court agrees. 
            Again, as noted above, the label of
the cause of action does not matter here; it is the allegations that matter. (Alfaro,
supra, 171 Cal.App.4th at p. 1371.) Accordingly, the Court reads the
Complaint as purporting to allege a cause of action for retaliatory eviction.
Nevertheless, the Court agrees with Defendant that the allegations for this
cause of action are difficult to comprehend. The majority of the allegations in
the Complaint are presented in a rambling fashion and do not appear to have any
bearing on a claim for retaliation. (Compl., ¶¶ 5-7; see Craig v. City of
Los Angeles (1941) 44 Cal.App.2d 71, 73 [demurrer for uncertainty upheld
where complaint attempted to state numerous causes of action in a “very loose
and rambling manner without any attempt at separately stating them.” ) 
The
Court notes that paragraph 8 of the Complaint contains some allegations that potentially
relate to a claim for retaliatory eviction. Plaintiff appears to allege that
Defendant retaliated against her by attempting to evict her for previously
filing a small claims case against Defendant and for requesting Defendant replace
the carpet. (Compl., ¶ 8.) But, as Defendant noted, the Complaint does not
appear to allege that Plaintiff involuntarily vacated the premises due to
Defendant’s conduct, which is a necessary allegation for common law retaliation.
(Banuelos, supra, 219 Cal.App.4th at p. 328.) Also, the
Complaint is unclear whether Plaintiff is claiming statutory retaliation or
common law retaliation. Plaintiff must allege more facts to clarify which kind
of retaliation claim Plaintiff seeks. 
            Based on the foregoing, the Court
SUSTAINS the demurrer to the Third Cause of Action for retaliation with leave
to amend. 
LEGAL
STANDARD – Motion to Strike
“Any party, within the time allowed to respond to a pleading may
serve and file a notice of motion to strike the whole or any part thereof, but this
time limitation shall not apply to motions specified in subdivision (e).”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 435, subd. (b)(2).) “The court may, upon a motion made
pursuant to Section 435, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it
deems proper: (a) Strike out any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted
in any
pleading. (b) Strike out all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed
in conformity with the laws of this state, a court rule, or an order of the
court.” (Id., § 436.) 
DISCUSSION
– Motion to Strike
Meet and Confer
Per Code of Civil Procedure section
435.5, subdivision (a), Defendants were required to meet and confer telephonically
or in person before bringing this motion to strike. (Code Civ. Proc., § 435.5,
subd. (a).) The Court finds Defendant’s efforts to meet and confer to be
sufficient. (Cain Decl., ¶ 3.) 
Analysis
Given the Court sustaining the demurrer to the Complaint with
leave to amend as set forth above, the Court the Court DENIES Defendants’
motion to strike as moot. 
CONCLUSION
            The Court SUSTAINS the Demurrer to
the First, Second and Third Causes of Action of the Complaint with leave to
amend. 
            The Court DENIES the motion to
strike as moot. 
            Plaintiff is ordered to file and
serve an amended pleading and provide proof of service of same within twenty calendar
days of the Court’s order.

