  Case Number:  21STCV25612    Hearing Date:   February 14, 2024    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Wednesday, February 14, 2024
CASE NUMBER:                   21STCV25612
CASE NAME:                        Mark A. Currie, et
al. v. Farmers Insurance, et al.  
MOVING PARTY:                 Defendant Fire Insurance Exchange
OPPOSING PARTY:             Plaintiffs Mark A. Currie, Michelle A. Currie,
Michelle A. Currie, Leroy Turner, Ladiamond R. Blueford
TRIAL DATE:                        N/A
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Motion for Reconsideration
of the January 8, 2024, ruling
OPPOSITION:                        31 January 2024
REPLY:                                  5
February 2024
 
TENTATIVE:                         Plaintiffs’
Motion for Reconsideration is denied. 
Plaintiffs to give notice. 

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On July 13, 2023, Mark A. Currie,
Michelle A. Currie, Michelle A. Currie, Leroy Turner, Ladiamond R. Blueford
(collectively “Plaintiffs’) filed a Complaint against Fire Insurance Exchange
(“Defendant” or “Fire”). This action relates to an insurance policy and alleged
misrepresentations Fire made to Plaintiffs regarding coverage. 
 
The operative First Amended Complaint
(“FAC”) alleges ten causes of action: (1) Breach of
Contract, (2) Fraudulent Misrepresentation, (3) Breach of Fiduciary Duty, (4)
Promissory Estoppel, (5) Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing, (6) Fraud and Deceit, (7) General Negligence, (8) Intentional
Infliction of Emotional Distress, (9) Unfair Competition, and (10) Injunctive
Relief. 
 
On May 2, 2022, Plaintiffs dismissed Farmers
Insurance Group and Foremost Insurance Group as Defendants. Plaintiffs also
dismissed the third cause of action for Breach of
Fiduciary Duty and the ninth cause of action for Unfair Competition.

 
On October 3, 2023, Plaintiffs filed a motion for summary
judgment or, in the alternative, for  summary adjudication. On February 5, 2024, the
court denied Plaintiffs’ request for summary judgment and summary adjudication.

 
On January 18, 2024, Plaintiffs filed a “Motion for
Clarification and Reconsideration” of the January 8, 2024, ruling, which is
noticed for hearing on February 14, 2024. Plaintiffs made no attempt to have
the Motion heard before Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary Judgment or, in the
alternative, for  summary adjudication. The
matter is now before the court. 
 
motion for
reconsideration
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
 CCP § 1008 states, in
pertinent part:¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿¿ 
(a) When an application for an order has been made to a
judge, or to a court, and refused in whole or in part, or granted, or granted
conditionally, or on terms, any party affected by the order may, within 10
days after service upon the party of written notice of entry of the order
and based upon new or different facts, circumstances, or law, make an
application to the same judge or court that made the order, to reconsider the
matter and modify, amend, or revoke the prior order. The party making the
application shall state by affidavit what application was made before, when and
to what judge, what order or decisions were made, and what new or different
facts, circumstances, or law are claimed to be shown.¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
(b) A party who originally made an application for an order
which was refused in whole or in part, or granted conditionally or on terms,
may make a subsequent application for the same order upon new or different
facts, circumstances, or law, in which case it shall be shown by affidavit what
application was made before, when and to what judge, what order or decisions
were made, and what new or different facts circumstances, or law are claimed to
be shown. For a failure to comply with this subdivision, any order made on a
subsequent application may be revoked or set aside on an ex parte
motion.¿¿¿¿¿ 
¿¿¿ 
(c) If a court at any time determines that there has been a
change of law that warrants it to reconsider a prior order it entered, it may
do so on its own motion and enter a different order. 
 
(d) A violation of this section may be punished as a contempt
and with sanctions as allowed by Section 128.7. In addition, an order made
contrary to this section may be revoked by the judge or commissioner who made
it, or vacated by a judge of the court in which the action or proceeding is
pending. 
¿¿¿ 
(e)¿This section specifies the court’s jurisdiction with
regard to applications for reconsideration of its orders and renewals of
previous motions, and applies to all applications to reconsider any order of a
judge or court, or for the renewal of a previous motion, whether the order
deciding the previous matter or motion is interim or final. No application to
reconsider any order or for the renewal of a previous motion may be considered
by any judge or court unless made according to this section. . .. 
 
II.        Request for Judicial Notice                     
 
The Court may take judicial notice of records of any court of
record of the United States. (Evid. Code, § 452(d)(2).) The court grants Plaintiffs’ request for judicial notice of
the Shabani Declaration. A court may take judicial notice of contents of its
own records. (Dwan v. Dixon (1963) 216 Cal.App.2d 260, 265; Foster v.
Gray (1962) 203 Cal.App.2d 434, 439.) However, the court may only judicially notice the
existence of the record, not that its contents are the truth. (Sosinsky v.
Grant (1992) 6 Cal.App.4th 1548, 1565.)
 
Plaintiffs request judicial notice of the
following: 
 
1)     The
Court’s Tentative Ruling made for Defendant’s Motion for Summary Judgment, or,
in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication, hearing held December 20, 2023. A
true and correct copy of this document attached as RJN Exhibit 1.
 
2)     The
Court’s Minute Order dated January 8, 2024, RE Defendant’s Motion for Summary
Judgment, or, in the Alternative, Summary Adjudication. A true and correct copy
of this document attached as RJN Exhibit 2.
 
Plaintiffs’
request for judicial notice is granted. 
 
II.        Discussion
 
Plaintiffs
seek clarification as to the January 8, 2024, ruling, whether the Plaintiffs
met their burden as to certain causes of action, and whether the Plaintiff’s evidence
was erroneously ruled as hearsay, lack of personal knowledge, and/or lack of
authentication. Plaintiffs’ counsel asserts the different circumstances that
warrant reconsideration is that Defendant’s evidentiary objections to Plaintiffs’
evidence were erroneously sustained, making Plaintiffs’ evidence inadmissible.  Defendant also failed to file a proposed
order for the objections. The court finds that Plaintiffs failed to show that
new or different circumstances warrant reconsideration of the January 8, 2024,
ruling for several reasons. 
 
First, by failing to challenge the
Defendant’s objections at the hearing, Plaintiffs waived the right to challenge
the validity of the Defendant’s objections to the Plaintiffs’ evidence. (See Lopez v. Baca (2002) 98 Cal.App.4th 1008, 1014; Vulk v. State Farm General Insurance Company (2021) 69
Cal.App.5th 243, 253.) 
 
Second, Plaintiffs fail to point out what
evidence, if deemed admissible, would have established a triable issue of
material fact, that would have warranted reversal of the grant of summary
adjudication in favor of the Defendant as to the Plaintiffs’ second, fourth,
fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, and tenth causes of action. Without such an
explanation, the court finds no reason why the January 8, 2024, ruling should
be reconsidered. 
 
Third, it was Plaintiffs’
obligation to properly lay the foundation and authenticate the exhibits they relied
upon to oppose the Defendant’s motion for summary judgment. Plaintiffs’
former counsel, Angela Swan, submitted a declaration in support of Plaintiffs’
opposition to the Motion wherein she stated: 
 

“The
     following facts are within my own personal knowledge, and/or are known to
     me based on my review of the documents referenced herein.” 

 

“I
     am the Lead Attorney to the present case, Mark A. Currie et al. vs.
     Farmers Insurance Group, on behalf of Plaintiffs. As such, I am
     familiar with the pleadings, discovery, and other papers pertaining to
     this litigation, as discussed in further detail below.” 

 
The Swan Declaration then
proceeds to list Exhibits 1 to 30, without providing further details
“sufficient to sustain a finding” that the exhibits are what Ms. Swan claims
them to be. (Evid. Code, § 1400.) For example, Plaintiff’s Exhibit 19 is
entitled “Water Loss Claim File Notes”, but no statement or declaration is
offered as to who prepared or authored the claim notes. Ms. Swan fails to
provide facts that would indicate that the notes are admissible under the
business records exception to the hearsay rule. If the exhibits were provided
by Defendant during discovery, then it was incumbent on Plaintiffs to point to
deposition transcripts or discovery responses where Defendant admitted to the
authenticity of the exhibits now being relied upon by Plaintiffs. While
affidavits and declarations may be filed in support of a motion for summary
judgment, such affidavits or declarations “shall be made by a person on
personal knowledge, shall set forth admissible evidence, and shall show
affirmatively that the affiant is competent to testify to the matters stated in
the affidavits or declarations.” (CCP, § 437c(d) [italics added].) 
 
The
counteraffidavit concludes with the allegation that the ‘facts stated herein
are within the personal knowledge of the affiant, and the affiant, if sworn as
a witness, can testify competently thereto.’ Where the facts stated do not
themselves show it, such bare statement of the affiant has no redeeming value
and should be ignored. 


(Snider v. Snider (1962) 200 Cal.App.2d 741, 754, see also
Gamboa v. Northeast
Community Clinic (2021)
72 Cal.App.5th 158, 169.)
 
Fourth, while Plaintiffs Maeva
A. Currie, Yamira A. Currie, Mark A. Currie, Michelle A. Currie, and LaDiamond
R. Blueford all submitted declarations in support of their opposition to the
Defendant’s Motion, each declaration had separate exhibits attached which do
not appear in the Plaintiffs’ response to the Separate Statement. If the
evidence is not cited in the Separate Statement, the evidence does not exist.
(See Luebke v. Automobile Club of Southern California (2020) 59
Cal.App.5th 694, 704.) 
 
For the reasons above, the
court found that Ms. Swan’s declaration and Plaintiffs’ declarations failed to
show that the evidence the Plaintiffs relied upon to oppose the Defendant’s
Motion for Summary Judgment—as well as the Plaintiffs’ Motion for Summary
judgment—was inadmissible evidence. 
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Motion
for reconsideration is denied. 
 
Conclusion
 
Plaintiffs’ Motion for
Reconsideration is denied. Plaintiffs to give notice. 
 