 Case Number:  23TRCV02510    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  P MOTION: Motions to Compel Defendant’s Responses to Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Requests for Production of DocumentsTentative Ruling: Plaintiff’s motions are DENIED as MOOT. Sanctions are DENIED.I. BACKGROUNDA. FactualPlaintiff commenced this action on August 2, 2023. The operative First Amended Complaint alleges causes of action for (1) negligence, (2) strict products liability, (3) breach of implied warranty, and (4) breach of express warranty.Plaintiff now moves to compel Defendant’s responses to Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Requests for Production of Documents, Sets One, and for monetary sanctions.B. ProceduralOn April 10, 2024, Plaintiff filed the instant motions. On May 23, 2024, Defendant opposed. On May 30, 2024, Plaintiff replied.II. MOVING PARTY’S GROUNDS FOR THE MOTIONPlaintiff moves to compel responses to Form Interrogatories, Special Interrogatories, and Requests for Production of Documents, Sets One, on the ground that Plaintiff failed to produce verified responses.III. ANALYSISA. Compel Discovery ResponsesWhere a party fails to serve timely responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling responses. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, 2031.300; Healthcare Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 390, 403.) A party that fails to serve timely responses waives any objections to the request, including ones based on privilege or the protection of attorney work product. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (a), 2031.300, subd. (a).) Unlike a motion to compel further responses, a motion to compel responses is not subject to a 45-day time limit and the propounding party has no meet and confer obligations. (Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting, Inc., supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at p. 404.)Here, Defendant has now provided verified responses. Accordingly, the motions are MOOT. To the extent that Plaintiff takes issue with the responses, Plaintiff may file a noticed motion to compel further responses to the subject discovery.B. SanctionsWhere the court grants a motion to compel responses, sanctions shall be imposed against the party who unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel, unless the party acted with substantial justification or the sanction would otherwise be unjust. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c).) The court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even where the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion was filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1348(a).)Here, sanctions are denied as there appears to be an issue as to whether service of the subject discovery was on the proper person based on a misunderstanding of Defendant’s legal representation. Further, the discovery dispute has been resolved without Court intervention.IV. CONCLUSIONFor the foregoing reasons, Plaintiff’s motions are DENIED as MOOT. Sanctions are DENIED.Moving party is ordered to give notice.