  Case Number:  23TRCV01240    Hearing Date:   June 6, 2024    Dept:  P Moving Parties: Plaintiffs Magda Kispal and John KerwinResponding Parties: Defendants Marleon Inc., dba Henley’s Welding, Bartz Design & Construction Development, LLC and 4A Crane Service, Inc.The court considered the moving, opposition, and reply papers.RULINGPlaintiffs’ motion for trial preference is DENIED without prejudice.BACKGROUNDOn April 21, 2023, Plaintiffs Magda Kispal and John Kerwin filed a complaint against Defendants 4A Crane service, Inc., Bartz Design & Construction Development, Inc. ABC Solar, Inc., and Marleon Inc., dba Henley’s Welding, alleging a cause of action for negligence.The complaint alleges that on April 26, 2021, Plaintiffs were inside their home when an improperly secured crane, owned and operated by Defendants, was in the process of moving solar panels from the front of Plaintiffs’ property to the rear of the property. The complaint further alleges that the crane tipped over, causing the machinery to crash through the roof of Plaintiffs’ home, causing severe emotional distress as Plaintiffs were in the zone of danger and feared for their lives.On April 9, 2024, Defendant Worsley filed a demurrer. On April 19, 2024, Plaintiff filed an opposition. On April 29, 2024, Defendant filed a reply.LEGAL AUTHORITYPursuant to Code of Civil Procedure section 36(a), “A party to a civil action who is over 70 years of age may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the court makes both of the following findings:(1) The party has a substantial interest in the action as a whole.(2) The health of the party is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party’s interest in the litigation.”(Code Civ. Proc. § 36(a).)An affidavit submitted in support of section 36(a) “may be signed by the attorney for the party seeking preference based upon information and belief as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 36.5.)If a motion for preference based on a party’s age is granted, the matter must be set for trial not more than 120 days from the date the motion is granted. (Code Civ. Proc., § 36(f).)“Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the court may in its discretion grant a motion for preference that is supported by a showing that satisfies the court that the interests of justice will be served by granting this preference.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 36, subd. (e).)DISCUSSIONPlaintiffs move for trial preference, arguing that they have a substantial interest in the case, that Plaintiffs are 76 and 86 years old, and that their health is such that a trial preference is necessary.Plaintiff Kerwin is currently 76 years old. (Kerwin Decl., ¶3.) Kerwin was diagnosed with prostate cancer with metastases on or about November 13, 2020, and subsequently underwent radiation to treat the same. (Karns, MD Decl., ¶4.) He is still undergoing injection and oral medication treatment. (Id.) Kerwin was diagnosed with depression and referred for treatment on or about January 22, 2024. (Id.) Kerwin also suffers from arthritis in his shoulders and knees and related pain. (Id.) He is managing his pain with medication. (Id.) Kerwin suffered a stroke on or about August 20, 2021. (Id.) He still has visual impairment resulting from the stroke and is working with ophthalmology. (Id.)Plaintiff Kispal is currently 86 years old. (Kispal Decl., ¶3.) Kispal has mobility issues and knee pain. (Karns Decl., ¶5.) She also fatigues easily and is working on that with physical therapy. (Id.) She has a history of anxiety and has been diagnosed with depression on or about January 23, 2024. (Id.)In the past 6 months, Plaintiffs’ physical conditions have deteriorated, in that they tire easily and quickly and have made it difficult for them to focus their attention for extended periods of time. (Karns Dec. ¶¶4-5.)While the court finds that Plaintiffs are over 70 years old and have a substantial interest in the case as they are the Plaintiffs, Plaintiffs have not met their burden under CCP section 36(a) to show that their health is such that a preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing their interests. Plaintiffs’ evidence in the form of their physician’s declaration that their physical condition is deteriorating, is devoid of facts and details regarding the progression of Plaintiffs’ diagnoses. Thus without more detail, the evidence is not enough to show that the health of the parties is such that a preference is necessary.The present facts are readily distinguishable from those in Fox v. Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, where trial preference should have been granted to an 81-year-old with (1) stage IV mesothelioma which had metastasized to the femur, clavicle, and spine, (2) asbestosis, (3) asbestos-related pleural disease, (4) severe coronary artery disease, (5) anemia, (6) whole body aches and pain, (7) severe abdominal and bowel complications, (8) nausea and vomiting, (9) dehydration, (10) drowsiness, (11) extreme weakness and fatigue, (12) chemotherapy-induced impairment to focus, concentration, and communication, (13) an extremely weak immune system, and (14) worsening side effects of the chemotherapy. (Fox v. Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 532.)The Court thus finds that Plaintiffs have not satisfied the requirements to support a claim for trial preference. The evidence currently presented does not suggest that Plaintiff’s interests in the litigation will be prejudiced by the currently set trial date.Accordingly, Plaintiffs have failed to make a satisfactory showing under CCP section 36(a) and the motion is denied without prejudice.