  Case Number:  20STLC02864    Hearing Date:   August 6, 2024    Dept:  31 Tentative Ruling
 
Judge Kerry Bensinger, Department 31
 
 
HEARING DATE:     August
6, 2024                                   TRIAL
DATE:  October 14, 2024
                                                           
CASE:                                TCR Services, Inc. v. Great American Insurance Co, et al. 
 
CASE NO.:                      20STLC02864
 





















 
MOTION
FOR EVIDENTIARY HEARING 
UNDER
BUSINESS & PROFESSIONS CODE § 7031(e) 



 
MOVING PARTY:                   Defendant AWI Builders, Inc. 
 
RESPONDING PARTY:      Plaintiff TCR Services, Inc. 
 
 
I.          INTRODUCTION
 
            In 2017, Plaintiff TCR Services, Inc. (TCR) and Defendant AWI
Builders, Inc. (AWI) entered into a contract, whereby TCR agreed to install
rebar and perform related services at the Robinson Park Recreation Center in
Pasadena (the, “Project”).  As relevant
here, TCR alleges that AWI breached the contract and now owes a balance of
$23,098.45 for materials and services rendered.  On March 30, 2020, TCR filed this
action for breach of construction contract and related claims against AWI,
among other defendants.  This case was
originally filed as a limited jurisdiction action. The operative pleading is the
First Amended Complaint (FAC) which alleges causes of action for (1) Recovery
of Stop Payment Notice Release Bond, (2) Recovery on Contractor’s License Bond,
and (3) Recovery on Contractor’s Payment Bond.
 
            Relevant
Background 
 
            On June 29,
2020, AWI filed a motion to strike the Complaint “on the grounds that Plaintiff
was a dissolved corporation as of the date the contract was allegedly breached
[August 23, 2019] and a dissolved corporation is not permitted to conduct any
business after dissolution.”  In support
of that motion, counsel for AWI submitted evidence to show TCR filed for
dissolution on January 7, 2019, and TCR’s license was thereafter cancelled on
May 13, 2019.  The court denied the
motion because the Complaint did not allege that “Defendants breached the
agreement on August 23, 2019. (See Compl., ¶11.) The Complaint only alleges
that Plaintiff made demand for payment and served a stop payment notice on that
date. (Id. at ¶¶17, 32.)”  The
court further observed, “Nor does Plaintiffs statement on the Certificate of
Dissolution that the corporation was completely wound up create basis to strike
the Complaint. (See Sire Decl., Exh. B, ¶5.) The truth of Plaintiff's statement
is not subject to judicial notice and to take it as such would improperly turn
the Motion to Strike into a contested evidentiary hearing. (Big Valley Band
of Pomo Indians v. Superior Court (2005) 133 Cal.App.4th 1185, 1191.)
Defendants, therefore, have not shown from the allegations in the Complaint or
judicially noticeable facts that Plaintiff's dissolution dated January 7, 2019
bars the claims brought against them.”
 
            On August
27, 2021, AWI filed an Answer to the Complaint. 
AWI claimed that TCR failed to comply with licensing requirements during
the duration of the Project.  
 
            The
Instant Motion
 
            AWI now
moves for an evidentiary hearing pursuant to Business and Professions Code section
7031.  AWI asks the court to determine
whether TCR has been in substantial compliance with the licensing requirements
found in Section 7031.  
 
            TCR filed
an opposition.  AWI replied.  
 
II.           DISCUSSION & LEGAL STANDARD 
 
AWI is entitled to an evidentiary hearing to determine
whether TCR maintained proper licensure for the duration of the Project or, if
not, whether TCR substantially complied with licensure requirements. 
 
“Since its adoption in 1939, the [Construction Services
Licensing Law, Business and Professions Code section 7000 et seq.] has declared
that, except as expressly otherwise provided, a contractor may not sue to
collect compensation for performance of any act or contract requiring a license
without alleging that he or she was duly licensed ‘at all times during the
performance of that act or contract.  The
bar extends to actions in law or equity and applies regardless of the merits of
the cause of action.”  (WSS Indus.
Constr., Inc. v. Great W. Contractors, Inc. (2008) 162 Cal.App.4th 581, 587
(cleaned up); Bus. & Prof. Code, § 7031, subd. (a); all further statutory
references are to that code.)
            
“If licensure or proper licensure is controverted, then
proof of licensure pursuant to this section shall be made by production of a verified
certificate of licensure from the Contractors State License Board which
establishes that the individual or entity bringing the action was duly licensed
in the proper classification of contractors at all times during the performance
of any act or contract covered by the action. Nothing in this subdivision shall
require any person or entity controverting licensure or proper licensure to
produce a verified certificate. When licensure or proper licensure is
controverted, the burden of proof to establish licensure or proper licensure
shall be on the licensee.” (§ 7031, subd. (d).)
 
“The judicial
doctrine of substantial compliance shall not apply under this section where the
person who engaged in the business or acted in the capacity of a contractor has
never been a duly licensed contractor in this state. However, notwithstanding
subdivision (b) of Section 143, the court may determine there has been
substantial compliance with licensure requirements under this section if it is
shown at an evidentiary hearing that the person who engaged in the business or
acted in the capacity of a contractor (1) had been duly licensed as a
contractor in this state prior to the performance of the act or contract, (2)
acted reasonably and in good faith to maintain proper licensure, and (3) acted
promptly and in good faith to remedy the failure to comply with the licensure
requirements upon learning of the failure.”  (§ 7031, subd. (e);
emphasis added.)
 
Here, by bringing this motion, AWI disputes whether TCR
observed proper licensure requirements during the duration of the Project.  AWI’s position is consistent with its Answer
to the Complaint, which pleads proper licensure as an affirmative defense.  (See AWI’s Answer, Seventeenth Affirmative
Defense.)  This is sufficient to
controvert licensure.  (See, e.g., Advantec
Group, Inc. v. Edwin's Plumbing Co., Inc. (2007) 153 Cal.App.4th 621, 624 [“[A]
defendant's answer containing a general denial of the material allegations of
the contractor's claim [citation] is sufficient to ‘controvert’ the
contractor's allegation of licensure, and thus invokes the requirement of
section 7031, subdivision (d) ....”].)  As
such, Section 7031 mandates that this court must resolve the legal issue of
TCR’s standing to maintain this action and recover on its claims.
 
TCR advances the following arguments in opposition: (1) there
is no authority that AWI’s licensure claim should be decided before trial or separate
from a motion for summary judgment; (2) TCR was fully licensed for the duration
of the Project and is not presently arguing substantial compliance; and (3)
AWI, through its former counsel, admitted that TCR was properly licensed until
May 15, 2019.
 
AWI’s first argument is easily disposed.  First, contrary to AWI’s position, there is
no authority that licensure claims must be heard at trial or via a
summary judgment motion.  To be sure, although
licensure claims, as the one presented here, are often decided at trial (see,
e.g., Judicial Council of California v. Jacobs Facilities, Inc. (2015)
239 Cal.App.4th 882 [deferring substantial compliance hearing until after jury
trial]; Pacific Caisson & Shoring, Inc. v. Bernards Bros. Inc. (2015) 236 Cal.App.4th 1246
[reversing grant of motion for judgment (Code Civ. Proc., § 631.8) and
remanding for trial court to determine whether contractor substantially
complied with licensure requirements]; Construction Financial v. Perlite
Plastering Co. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 170 [deciding licensure issue in first
phase of bifurcated trial]), there is nothing in the language of Section 7031
that explicitly states when that evidentiary hearing should take place.  At least, TCR does not point to any authority
for the proposition trial or some dispositive motion are the only vehicles by
which licensure may be litigated.
 
TCR’s second and third arguments are interrelated.[1]  TCR bases its argument that it was fully
licensed for the duration of the Project upon AWI’s counsel’s declaration (the
“Sire Decl.”), filed in support of AWI’s motion to strike, which purportedly agreed
that TCR was properly licensed until May 13, 2019.  (See Weissman Decl., Ex. C.)  The court is not persuaded.  The Sire Decl. does not state an agreement
with the proposition that AWI was licensed for the entire relevant period.  
 
Further, to the extent that the Certificate of Dissolution
upon which AWI relied in moving to strike the Complaint does indicate
proper licensure, AWI may, as it does here, still attack TCR’s licensure status
by proving that TCR was unlicensed by going behind the face of the
license.  (See Motion, pp.
3:28-4:3.)  
 
Buzgheia v. Leasco Sierra Grove (1997) 60 Cal.App.4th 374 (Buzgheia), a case cited by
AWI, is instructive.  The issue in that
case was whether a party could attack a license valid on its face by proving
that the licensing requirements were not in fact met.
 
In Buzgheia, the plaintiff/contractor held no license
personally during his work on the construction jobs at issue, but did business
as Tripoli Construction Company (“Tripoli”) which held a license by virtue of
its employment of a “responsible managing employee” or “RME.” The developer
defendants took the position that the RME was not a bona fide employee, did
virtually no work on the developer's projects, and therefore Tripoli (and hence
the plaintiff) was not “duly licensed.” Regulations of the Contractors' State
License Board required that the RME be permanently employed by the corporate
licensee and actively engaged in the operation of the contracting business.
(Cal.Code Regs., tit. 16, § 823, subd. (a).) “ ‘ “Direct supervision and
control” includes any one or any combination of the following activities,
supervising construction, managing construction activities by making technical
and administrative decisions, checking jobs for proper workmanship, or
direction supervision on construction job sites.’ (Id. at subd. (b).)”  (Buzgheia, supra, 60 Cal.App.4th at p.
381.)
 
The Buzgheia court began its analysis by reviewing
the rationale behind the licensing requirements and the disablement of a
non-licensed person from suing for compensation. Quoting the Supreme Court in Hydrotech
Systems, Ltd. v. Oasis Waterpark (1991) 52 Cal.3d 988, the Buzgheia
court stated: “ ‘The purpose of the licensing law is to protect the public from
incompetence and dishonesty in those who provide building and construction
services.... The licensing requirements provide minimal assurance that all persons
offering such services in California have the requisite skill and character,
understand applicable local laws and codes, and know the rudiments of
administering a contracting business. Section 7031 advances this purpose of
withholding judicial aid from those who seek compensation for unlicensed
contract work. The obvious statutory intent is to discourage persons who have
failed to comply with the licensing law from offering or providing their
unlicensed services for pay. Because of the strength and clarity of this
policy, it is well settled that section 7031 applies despite injustice to the
unlicensed contractor. ‘Section 7031 represents a legislative determination
that the importance of deterring unlicensed persons from engaging in the
contracting business outweighs any harshness between the parties, and
that such deterrence can best be realized by denying violators the right to
maintain any action for compensation in the courts of this state....’ (Original
italics, citations omitted.)”  (Id.
at p. 380.)
 
The court then addressed the plaintiff's contention that a
license valid on its face could not be attacked by the defendants in order to
avoid payment for the services the plaintiff had already rendered. The court
rejected the contention, agreeing with the defendants' argument that “
‘[e]vasion and deception in obtaining and maintaining a contractor's license in
violation of the licensing law should not be sanctioned.’ ” (Ibid.)
Consequently, it ruled that “a party in a civil action [may] attack a contractor's
license by going behind the fact of the license and proving that a required RME
is a ‘sham.’ ” (Buzgheia, supra, 60 Cal.App.4th at p. 385.) The court
found support for its ruling in “abundant, long-standing, case law,” including G.E.
Hetrick & Associate, Inc. v. Summit Construction & Maintenance Co. (1992)
11 Cal.App.4th 318, 328, Rushing v. Powell (1976) 61 Cal.App.3d 597,
605–607, Weeks v. Merritt Bldg. & Constr. Co. (1974) 39 Cal.App.3d
520, 524, and Famous Builders, Inc. v. Bolin (1968) 264 Cal.App.2d 37,
40–41.
 
“In most cases, a contractor can establish valid licensure
by simply producing ‘a verified certificate of licensure from the Contractors’
State License Board which establishes that the individual or entity bringing
the action was duly licensed in the proper classification of contractors at all
times during the performance of any act or contract covered by the action.’ (§
7031, subd. (d).)” (Jeff Tracy, Inc. v. City of Pico Rivera  (2015) 240 Cal.App.4th 510, 518.) However, “[i]t
is possible for a party in a civil action to attack a contractor's license by
going behind the face of the license and proving that a required RME is a
‘sham.’ ” (Buzgheia, supra, 60 Cal.App.4th at p. 385, bold
added, italics omitted.)


TCR offers the lone challenge to Buzgheia that it is
no longer good law.  TCR is
mistaken.  (See Vascos Excavation
Group LLC v. Gold (2022) 87 Cal.App.5th 842, 851-853 (citing Buzgheia with
approval for the proposition that facially valid licensure may still be subject
to attack).)  
 
To repeat, AWI has controverted TCR’s licensure status.  Under the foregoing authorities, an
evidentiary hearing is therefore warranted.[2]
 
III.       CONCLUSION 
 
The Motion for Evidentiary Hearing Under Business &
Professions Code § 7031(e) is GRANTED.  
 
            The court
will discuss with the parties the timing for the hearing.
 
Moving party to give notice. 

 
Dated:   August 6, 2024                                            




 


  


 




 


  Kerry Bensinger 
  Judge of the Superior Court


 




 
 


