 Case Number:  23STCV15435    Hearing Date:   December 15, 2023    Dept:  37 HEARING DATE:                 Friday, December 15, 2023
CASE NUMBER:                   23STCV15435
CASE NAME:                        Infinity Medical Alliance, Inc. v. A&G Management Services, Inc.,
et al. 
MOVING PARTY:                 Cross-Defendants Infinity
Medical Alliance, Inc. and Larisa Vinnitskaya
OPPOSING PARTY:             Cross-Complainants A&G
Management Services, Inc. and Aram Sharnazyan
TRIAL DATE:                        Not Set
PROOF OF SERVICE:           OK

                                                                                                                                                            

PROCEEDING:                      Demurrer 
OPPOSITION:                        28 November 2023
REPLY:                                  5
December 2023
 
TENTATIVE:                         Cross-Defendants’ demurrer is sustained with
leave to amend. Cross-Complainants are granted 30 days to amend
Cross-Complaint. Defendants to give notice.

                                                                                                                                                            

 
Background
 
On July 3, 2023, Infinity Medical
Alliance, Inc. (“Plaintiff” or “IMA”) filed a Complaint against A&G
Management Services, Inc. (“A&G”); Aram Sharnazyan (“Sharnazyan”); and Does
1 to 50.  The Complaint alleges four
causes of action: (1) Breach of Contract, (2) Declaratory Relief, (3) Trespass-
Monetary and Injunctive Relief; and (4) Conversion. 
 
On
August 7, 2023, Defendants A&G and Sharnazyan filed a Cross-Complaint against
IMA, Larisa Vinnitskaya (“Vinnitskaya”); Nikita Baranovskiy; Nixpro Inc.;
Konstantin Khlevnoy;, Johnathan M. Quick, Dat C. Tran; Jonathan Bohun; and Roes
1 to 50. 
 
On
September 8, 2023, Cross-Defendants Vinnitskaya and IMA. (collectively
“Cross-Defendants”) filed a demurrer to the Cross-Complaint.
Defendants/Cross-Complainants A&G and Sharnazyan oppose the Motion. 
Demurrer[1]
 
I.         Legal Standard
 
Where pleadings are defective, a party may raise the defect
by way of a demurrer. (Coyne v. Krempels (1950) 36 Cal.2d 257, 262.) A
demurrer tests the sufficiency of a pleading, and the grounds for a demurrer
must appear on the face of the pleading or from judicially noticeable matters.¿
(CCP, § 430.30(a); Blank v. Kirwan (1985) 39 Cal.3d 311, 318.) In
evaluating a demurrer, the court accepts the complainant’s properly pled facts
as true and ignores contentions, deductions, and conclusory statements. (Daar
v. Yellow Cab Co. (1976) 67 Cal.2d 695, 713; Serrano v. Priest (1971)
5 Cal.3d 584, 591.) Moreover, the court does not consider whether a plaintiff
will be able to prove the allegations or the possible difficulty in making such
proof. (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d
590, 604.) 
Leave to amend must be allowed
where there is a reasonable possibility of successful amendment. (Goodman v.
Kennedy (1976) 18 Cal.3d 335, 348.)¿ The burden is on the complainant to
show the Court that a pleading can be amended successfully. (Id.)
 
II.        Discussion
 
Cross-Defendants
Lariza Vinnitskaya and IMA demur to all thirteen (13) causes of action alleged
against them by Cross-Complainants A&G and Sharnazyan in the
Cross-Complaint (“CC”) on the basis that the causes of action fail to state
sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action. (CCP § 430.10(e).) 
 
            A.        Summary
of Allegations in Cross-Complaint
 
Cross-Defendant
IMA is a cannabis company and owns a commercial adult-use cannabis business
located in Torrence, CA (the “Business”). (CC ¶ 16.) Cross-Complainant A&G
is a management and consulting service owned and operated by Aram Sharnazyan
(“Sharnazyan”). (CC ¶ 17.) On September 25, 2019, IMA and A&G entered into
an agreement (the “Agreement”) wherein A&G would be the exclusive manager
and operator for the Business’s cannabis, retail, cultivation, and distribution
activities. (CC ¶ 18, Ex. 1.) Per the Agreement, A&G was responsible for
the day-to-day operations, direction, and management, including discretion to
retain, employ, and control personnel. (CC ¶ 18.) Under the Agreement, A&G
would pay IMA a fixed monthly fee of $60,000.00. 
 
i.          A&G’s Partnership with Baranovskiy
and Baranovskiy’s Schemes
 
In
June 2022 Sharnazyan partnered with Nikita Baranovskiy (“Baranovskiy”) so that
Baranovskiy could assist with the day-to-day operations of the Business. (Cross-Complaint
(“CC”) ¶ 20.) Sharnazyan also retained longtime associates of Baranovskiy -- Konstantin
Khlevnoy, Johnathan M. Quick, Dat C. Tran, and Johnathan Bohun -- as personnel
to manage the Business’s day-to-day operations. (CC ¶ 21.) The Cross-Complaint
alleges that on or about February 2023, Baranovskiy began to deposit monies
from the cash register of the Business to a bank account belonging to
Baranovskiy and/or Nixpro, Inc. (“Nixpro”). (CC ¶¶ 7, 22.) Baranovskiy also
proposed installing an automated telling machine (“ATM”) on the Business’s
premises for the customer’s ease and convenience.  The ATM was installed on or about February or
March 2023. (CC ¶ 23.) 
 
On
March 2023, A&G’s accountant, Emilio Amparan, discovered discrepancies in
the amount of reported sales tax and A&G began to investigate.  A&G discovered theft, fraud, and
embezzlement of the Business’s profits by Baranovskiy and his co-conspirators.
(CC ¶ 24.) The Cross-Complaint states the scheme involved Baranovskiy and his
associates using the point-of-sale system software used by the Business, called
“Meadow,” to sell “accessories” marked as $0.1 each when in reality the
transactions were cannabis products. (CC ¶ 25.) Baranovskiy and his associates
would then retain the cash received from clients for their own gains and avoid
paying the applicable cannabis sales tax. (CC ¶ 25.) When A&G confronted
Baranovskiy, he could not provide proof of purchase of any apparel or accessories
to A&G. (CC ¶ 26.) 
 
After
the confrontation, the Cross-Complaint alleges that Baranovskiy and his
associates devised a new fraudulent scheme whereby they would input a fifty
percent (50%) discount for a sale to a customer into Meadow but, in reality,
charge the customer the full, undiscounted price while they retained the other
half of the actual sales price. (CC ¶ 27.) Baranovskiy and his associates would
also deposit cash from the register, including money from their scheme, into
the ATM at the Business.  When the ATM
was full, they would deposit the cash into a bank account belonging to
Baranovskiy and/or Nixpro twice each business day (CC ¶ 28.) In June 2023,
A&G and Sharnazyan discovered this scheme. 
They terminated the partnership and ordered Baranovskiy and his
associates to cease all services and contact with the Business. 
 
                        ii.         Breakdown of IMA and A&G’s
Relationship
 
On
or about April 2022, A&G became aware that the Business owed taxes to the
California Department of Tax and Fee Administration (“CDTFA”) since about 2021,
when A&G was not the manager of the Business. (CC ¶ 10.) The
Cross-Complaint alleges that IMA concealed the tax liabilities before and after
the execution of the Agreement. Although A&G was ready and willing to make
payments to CDTFA, IMA instructed Cross-Complainants and its accountant to not
make the payments on the outstanding tax liabilities until after IMA entered
into an installment plan with CDTFA. (CC ¶ 30.) 
 
In
June 2022, A&G incurred costs for electrical system upgrades made to the
Business.  In consideration, IMA orally
agreed to reimburse A&G in the form of a monthly fee reduction from $60,000
to $45,000 for a period of a year (“Reduced Monthly Fee”). (CC ¶ 31.) IMA
drafted the amendment to the Agreement, provided a copy to A&G, which A&G
signed and returned to IMA, and IMA accepted the Reduced Monthly Fee for nearly
a year without any issue or dispute. (CC ¶ 31.) The Reduced Monthly Fee did not
become an issue until A&G terminated its partnership with Baranovskiy. (CC
¶ 32.) On or about June 2023, IMA began to allege A&G breached the
Agreement due to nonpayment of the taxes and Reduced Monthly Fee. (CC ¶ 33.) On
or about July 4, 2023, Cross-Complainants vacated the Business and ceased all
activity regarding the Business and IMA. (CC ¶ 34.) 
 
Upon
information and belief, Cross-Complainants allege that IMA and/or Vinnitskaya
received proceeds from Baranovskiy’s embezzlement and benefited from
Baranovskiy’s schemes. (CC ¶ 35.) By instructing Cross-Complainants to pay
taxes to the CDTFA and conspiring with Baranovskiy and his schemes, IMA
intended to fraudulently induce a breach of the Agreement and early termination
of the Agreement so that IMA and Baranovskiy could form a business relationship
together. (CC ¶¶ 36-38.) In this manner, IMA, Baranovskiy, and his associates
acted together to deceive, defraud, and conspire against Cross-Complainants by
converting the Business funds for their own gain and fraudulently induce
termination of the Agreement. (CC ¶ 39.) 
 
            B.        (1st)-Breach of Contract
The
elements of a claim for breach of contract are “(1) the existence of the
contract, (2) plaintiff’s performance or excuse for nonperformance, (3)
defendant's breach, and (4) the resulting damages to the plaintiff.” (Oasis
West Realty, LLC v. Goldman (2011) 51 Cal. 4th 811, 821.)
 
Cross-Complainants
assert that if they had a duty to pay taxes to CDTFA for the Business, that
duty was waived or excused by IMA who instructed Cross-Complainants to delay
payment to CDTFA. (CC ¶ 43.) Cross-Complainants further allege they incurred
costs for upgrading the electrical systems, and in consideration, IMA agreed to
reimburse A&G by reducing the Monthly Fee from $60,00.00 to $45,000.00. (CC
¶¶ 31, 44.) Therefore, any duty A&G had to pay the $60,000 Monthly Fee was
waived and/or excused by IMA as it accepted the Reduced Monthly Fee from
A&G for nearly a year without issue. (CC ¶ 44.) 
 
Cross-Defendants
assert that Cross-Complainants admit they Breached the Agreement. The parties
do not dispute the existence of the Agreement or its terms. Section 2.7 of the
Agreement, attached as Exhibit 1 to the Cross-Complaint, states that A&G is
responsible for paying all costs and expenses for managing and operating the
Business, including all property taxes, and federal, state, and/or city taxes.
(CC Ex. 1 at Art. III, § 2.7.) Section 4.1 further states that the Monthly Fee
is $60,000.00. (CC Ex. 1 at Art. IV, § 4.1.) Section 10.9 of the Agreement
states that the Agreement represents the entire agreement of the parties. (CC
Ex. 1 at Art. X, § 10.9.) Section 10.12 states that the Agreement may only be
amended or modified in writing and signed by the parties and “[n]o waiver by
either party of any of the provisions hereto shall be effective unless
explicitly set forth in writing and signed by the waiving party.” (CC Ex. 1,
Art. X, § 10.12.) 
 
Based
on the terms of the Agreement, the court agrees that Cross-Complainants fail to
allege a breach of contract because any waivers by Cross-Defendants are invalid
unless signed in writing by the party waiving the right. Furthermore,
Cross-Complainants alleges that “IMA drafted an amendment to the Agreement and
provided a copy to A&G, which A&G promptly signed and returned the
amendment to IMA.” (CC ¶ 31.) “If the action is based on an alleged breach of a
written contract, the terms must be set out verbatim in the body of the
complaint or a copy of the written instrument must be attached and incorporated
by reference.” (Otworth v. Southern Pac. Transportation Co. (1985) 166
Cal.App.3d 452.459 [internal citations omitted].) 
 
Here,
Cross-Complainants fail to include a copy of the amendment reducing the monthly
term. Alternatively, “a plaintiff may plead the legal effect of the contract
rather than its precise language.” (Construction Protective Services, Inc.
v. TIG Specialty Ins. Co. (2002) 29 Cal.4th 189, 198-199.)¿¿“[A]ll
essential elements of a breach of contract cause of action [] must be pleaded
with specificity.”¿(Levy v. State Farm Mutual Automobile Ins. Co. (2007)
150 Cal.App.4th 1, 5.) Cross-Complainants fail to plead the legal effect of the
amendment and what the terms and conditions of the alleged amendment are.
Without such facts, the first cause of action is deficient as the parties'
Agreement expressly prohibits oral modifications. 
 
The
demurrer to the first cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
C.        (2)-Breach
of Fiduciary Duty
 
“The elements of a cause of action for breach of fiduciary duty
are the existence of a fiduciary relationship, its breach, and damage
proximately caused by that breach.” (Meister v. Mensinger (2014) 230
Cal.App.4th 381, 395.)
 
The
fact that the parties entered a contract does not alone create a fiduciary
relationship. “‘[B]efore a person can be charged with a fiduciary obligation,
he must either knowingly undertake to act on behalf and for the benefit of
another, or must enter into a relationship which imposes that undertaking as a
matter of law.’ ” (City of Hope National Medical Center v.
Genentech, Inc. (2008) 43 Cal.4th 375, 386 (City of Hope).) 
 
The
Cross-Complaint states in a conclusory manner that “Cross-Defendants had a
fiduciary duty and obligation to exercise due care to Cross-Complainants.
Cross-Defendants failed to act in good faith, in the best interests of
Cross-Complainants, and with such an ordinarily prudent person in a like
position would use under similar circumstances as alleged herein.” (CC ¶ 51.) 
 
Cross-Complainants
fail to show that under the Agreement, Cross-Defendants entered a contract
acting primarily for the benefit of Cross-Complainants rather than entering
into a mutually beneficial business relationship. (City of Hope, supra,
43 Cal.4th at p. 386 [“These contractual provisions indicate that the parties's
common goal was to achieve a mutually beneficial arrangement, not that
Genentech had undertaken a fiduciary obligation ‘to act on behalf of and for
the benefit of another.’ [Citation]”].) 
 
Absent
such facts, the second cause of action fails, and the demurrer is sustained
with leave to amend. 
 
D.        (5)
Breach of Implied Covenant of Good Faith & Fair Dealing and (8) Intentional
Interference with Contractual Relations
 
“The invocation of conspiracy does not alter this fundamental allocation
of duty. Conspiracy is not an independent tort; it cannot create a duty or
abrogate an immunity. It allows tort recovery only
against a party who already owes the duty and is not immune from
liability based on applicable substantive tort law principles. [Citations.]
Because a party to a contract owes no tort duty to refrain from interference
with its performance, he or she cannot be bootstrapped into tort liability by the
pejorative plea of conspiracy.” (Applied Equipment Corp. v. Litton Saudi Arabia Ltd. (1994) 7 Cal.4th 503, 514 (Applied
Equipment).) “Conduct amounting to a breach of contract becomes tortious
only when it also violates an independent duty arising from principles of tort
law.” (Id. at p. 515.) 
 
Cross-Defendants
assert that the second, fifth, and eighth through thirteenth causes of action
fail because a party cannot be held liable for inducing a breach of its own
contract. “‘[T]he implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing is limited to
assuring compliance with the express terms of the contract, and cannot
be extended to create obligations not contemplated by the contract.’” (Ragland
v. U.S. Bank Nat. Assn. (2012) 209 Cal.App.4th 182, 206 [italics original]
quoting Pasadena Live v. City of Pasadena (2004) 114 Cal.App.4th 1089,
1094).) 
 
Here,
Cross-Complainants cannot allege as a matter of law that Cross-Defendants
breached a duty by inducing Cross-Complainants to breach the Agreement. (Applied
Equipment, supra, 7 Cal.4th at p. 54.) Moreover, Cross-Defendants
are permitted to sue for breach of contract and enforce the express terms of
the Agreement. The Cross-Complainant also failed to plead a breach of contract
claim. 
 
Therefore, the
demurrer to the fifth cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
“The
elements of a cause of action for intentional interference with contractual
relations are ‘(1) the existence of a valid contract between the plaintiff and
a third party; (2) the defendant’s knowledge of that contract; (3) the
defendant’s intentional acts designed to induce a breach or disruption of the
contractual relationship; (4) actual breach or disruption of the contractual
relationship; and (5) resulting damage.’ ” (Redfearn v. Trader Joe's Co.
(2018) 20 Cal.App.5th 989, 997, citing Reeves v. Hanlon (2004) 33 Cal.4th 1140,
1148.)
 
Here,
Cross-Complainants’ allegations that IMA “fraudulently induce[d] a breach of
the Agreement” fails because IMA cannot be charged with breaching its own
contract as a tort. (CC ¶¶ 128, 129.) “Conduct
amounting to a breach of contract becomes tortious only when it also violates
an independent duty arising from principles of tort law.” (Applied Equipment,
supra, 7 Cal.4th 503, 515.) Moreover, a claim for intentional
interference with contractual relations requires that Cross-Complainants have a
valid contract with a third party that is not Cross-Defendants. Here, the
eighth cause of action is devoid of facts alleging the existence of a contract
with a third party. 
 
Therefore, the demurrer to the eighth cause of action is sustained
with leave to amend. 
 
E.        Thirteenth
Cause of Action-Conspiracy
 
“The
elements of a civil conspiracy are (1) the formation of a group of two or more
persons who agreed to a common plan or design to commit a tortious act; (2) a
wrongful act committed pursuant to the agreement; and (3) resulting damages.” (City of Industry v. City of Fillmore (2011) 198 Cal.App.4th 191, 212.) 
 
Cross-Complainants
allege that IMA received proceeds from Baranovskiy’s embezzlement and benefited
from his schemes. (CC ¶ 172.) IMA also instructed Cross-Complainants to not pay
taxes to CDTFA and did not fully execute the Reduced Monthly Fee in order to
fraudulently induce a breach of the Agreement. (CC ¶ 175.) However, as
explained in Applied Equipment by the California Supreme Court, a party
to a contract does not owe a duty to refrain from interfering with its own
contract. Here, the conspiracy claim fails because the Cross-Complaint fails to
allege what independent duty the Cross-Defendants violated. 
 
Therefore,
the demurrer to the thirteenth cause of action is sustained with leave to
amend. 
 
F.        (3)
Intentional Misrepresentation and (4) Negligent Misrepresentation
 
“The essential elements of a count for
intentional misrepresentation are (1) a misrepresentation, (2) knowledge of
falsity, (3) intent to induce reliance, (4) actual and justifiable
reliance, and (5) resulting damage. [Citations.] The essential elements of
a count for negligent misrepresentation are the same except that it does not
require knowledge of falsity but instead requires a misrepresentation of fact
by a person who has no reasonable grounds for believing it to be true.
[Citations.] Each element of a fraud count must be pleaded with particularity
so as to apprise the defendant of the specific grounds for the charge and
enable the court to determine whether there is any basis for the cause of
action, although less specificity is required if the defendant would likely
have greater knowledge of the facts than the plaintiff. [Citation.]” (Chapman
v. Skype Inc. (2013) 220 Cal.App.4th 217, 230–231.)
 
Cross-Defendants
argue that the third and fourth causes of action for intentional and negligent
misrepresentation fail because Cross-Complainants cannot plead actual and
justifiable reliance since the written Agreement expressly states that any
modifications to the Agreement had to be in writing. (CC Ex. 1, Art. X, §
10.2.) Moreover, Cross-Complainants fails to plead the claims with the
requisite specificity because they fail to state who instructed
Cross-Complainants not to pay taxes to CDTFA, when the instruction was given,
and how such an instruction was provided and to whom. 
 
Furthermore, California law does not
permit a party to recover tort damages for contract claims. As explained by the
California Supreme Court, “the economic loss rule prevents the law of contract
and the law of tort from dissolving into the other.” (Robinson Helicopter
Co., Inc. v. Dana Corp. (2004) 34 Cal. 4th 979, 989.) “In general, there is
no recovery in tort for negligently inflicted ‘purely economic losses,’ meaning
financial harm unaccompanied by physical or property damage.” (Sheen v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2022) 12 Cal.5th 905,
922.) Here, Cross-Complainants' damages remain purely economical and appear to
be barred by the economic loss rule. 
 
Based on the above, the demurrer to third
and fourth causes of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
G.        (9) Intentional Interference with
Prospective Economic Relations, and (10) Negligent Interference with
Prospective Economic Relations
 
To state a claim for the tort of
intentional interference with prospective economic advantage (IIPEA), the
claimant must allege: (1) an economic relationship between the claimant and
some third party, with the probability of future economic benefit to the
claimant; (2) the defendant or cross-defendant’s knowledge of the relationship;
(3) intentional acts on the part of the defendant or cross-defendant designed
to disrupt the relationship; (4) actual disruption of the relationship; and (5)
economic harm to the claimant proximately caused by the acts of the
defendant.¿(Marsh v. Anesthesia Services Medical Group, Inc. (2011) 200
Cal.App.4th 480, 504.) 
 
To state a claim for
the tort of negligent interference with prospective economic advantage (NIPEA),
the plaintiff must allege that “(1) an economic relationship existed between
the plaintiff and a third party which contained a reasonably probable future
economic benefit or advantage to plaintiff; (2) the defendant knew of the
existence of the relationship and was aware or should have been aware that if
it did not act with due care its actions would interfere with this relationship
and cause plaintiff to lose in whole or in part the probable future economic
benefit or advantage of the relationship; (3) the defendant was negligent; and
(4) such negligence caused damage to plaintiff in that the relationship was
actually interfered with or disrupted and plaintiff lost in whole or in part
the economic benefit or advantage reasonably expected from the relationship.” (North
American Chemical Co. v. Sup. Ct. (1997) 59 Cal.App.4th 764, 788.) 
 
Cross-Complainants
IIPEA and NIPEA claim fail because the Cross-Complaint fails to allege that
Cross-Complainants had an economic relationship with a third party that was not
the relationship with Cross-Defendants. IIPEA and NIPEA claims also seek to
recover for purely economic losses such that they appeared to be barred by the
economic loss rule. Moreover, Cross-Complainants fail to allege an independent
wrong. For
both IIPEA and NIPEA, the interference must be wrongful by some legal measure
other than the fact of the interference itself. (Della Penna v.
Toyota Motor Sales, U.S.A. (1995) 11 Cal.4th 376, 378. “[A]n act is
independently wrongful if it is unlawful, that is, if it is proscribed by some
constitutional, statutory, regulatory, common law, or other determinable legal
standard.” (Korea Supply Co. v. Lockheed Martin Corp. (2003) 29
Cal.4th 1134, 1159.) 
 
Therefore, the
demurrer to the ninth and tenth causes of action is sustained with leave to
amend. 
 
H.       (6) Receipt of Stolen Property in
Violation of Penal Code § 496(c) and (7) Conversion
 
Penal Code § 496(a), in the relevant part, states: 
 
Every
person who buys or receives any property that has been stolen or that has been
obtained in any manner constituting theft or extortion, knowing the property to
be so stolen or obtained, or who conceals, sells, withholds, or aids in
concealing, selling, or withholding any property from the owner, knowing the
property to be so stolen or obtained, shall be punished by imprisonment in a
county jail for not more than one year, or imprisonment pursuant to subdivision
(h) of Section 1170.
 
To plead a cause of action for conversion, one must allege
(1) the plaintiff’s ownership or right to possession of personal property; (2)
defendant’s disposition of the property inconsistent with plaintiff’s rights;
and (3) resulting damages. (Fremont Indemnity Co. v. Fremont General Corp.
(2007) 148 Cal.App.4th 97, 119.) “A plaintiff must specifically identify the
amount of money converted, not that a specific, identifiable amount of money
has been entrusted to the defendant.” (Welco Electronics, Inc. v. Mora
(2014) 223 Cal.App.4th 202, 216.) 
 
Cross-Defendants maintain they cannot be held liable under
the sixth and seventh causes of action because the money allegedly “embezzled”
belonged to them and Cross-Complainants fail to identify the amount of money
converted. 
 
The Cross-Complaint alleges that the “instruction [was] to
deposit all monies into IMA’s bank account.” (CC ¶ 22.) Where Cross-Defendants
were the rightful owners of the monies, the fact that Cross-Complainants allege
they “had a right to possess all profits, funds, and monies under the terms of
the Agreement” does not override Cross-Defendants superior right of ownership.
Cross-Complainants fail to cite case law that permits them to maintain a claim
for violation of Pen. Code section 496(c) and conversion against a party who is
the rightful owner of the property. (CC ¶¶ 99, 112.) 
 
Therefore, the demurrer to the sixth and seventh causes of
action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
I.         
Twelfth Cause of Action - Unjust Enrichment.

 
“[T]he elements for a claim of unjust enrichment [are] receipt of
a benefit and unjust retention of the benefit at the expense of another.” (Lectrodryer v. SeoulBank (2000) 77 Cal.App.4th 723,
726.) 
 
The Cross-Complaint alleges that
Cross-Defendants benefited from Baranovskiy’s embezzlement and benefited from
his schemes. (CC ¶ 165.) Cross-Defendants are similarly accused of fraudulently
incusing breach of the Agreement. (CC ¶¶ 167, 168, 169.) However, as explained
above, the monies belong to IMA, accordingly IMA cannot be liable for unjust
enrichment when it was entitled to receive the funds Baranovskiy allegedly
embezzled. (CC ¶ 22.) In other words, Cross-Complainant fails to allege it was
entitled to retain the monies Baranovskiy embezzled. 
 
Therefore, the demurrer to the twelfth
cause of action is sustained with leave to amend. 
 
J.         
Eleventh Cause of Action – Unfair Competition Law
 
Bus. & Prof. Code section 17200 (“UCL”)
prohibits “any unlawful, unfair or fraudulent business act or practice.”¿(Bus.
& Prof. Code, § 17200;¿see Clark v. Superior Court¿(2010) 50 Cal.4th
605, 610.) To plead this statutory claim, the pleadings must state with
reasonable particularity the facts supporting the statutory elements of the
violation. (Khoury v. Maly's of California, Inc.¿(1993) 14 Cal.App.4th
612, 619.) In a private unfair competition law action, the remedies are
“‘generally limited to injunctive relief and restitution.’”¿(Kasky¿v. Nike,
Inc.¿(2002) 27¿Cal.4th¿939, 950, 119; see¿Bus. & Prof. Code, §
17203.) 
 
The court agrees that the eleventh cause of
action is not pled with reasonable particularity as it fails to allege if the
UCL claim is premised under the unlawful, unfair, or fraudulent prong.
Moreover, the Cross-Complaint alleges that the monies Baranovskiy allegedly
embezzled belonged to IMA. (CC ¶ 22.) Cross-Complainants
fail to allege how was it unlawful,
unfair, or fraudulent for Cross-Defendants to retain their own property. 
 
The demurrer to the eleventh cause of action is sustained with
leave to amend. 
 
Conclusion
 
Cross-Defendants’ demurrer is sustained
with leave to amend. Cross-Complainants are granted 
30 days to amend Cross-Complaint.  Defendants to give notice.


