  Case Number:  22STCV06085    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court
  of California
County of Los
  Angeles




 
Cartwright Termite & Pest
  Control, Inc.,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV06085




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Nisan Tepper, et al., 


 
 
 
Defendants.


 


 




 


 


 


 



Hearing Date: September 12, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice Leiter
(3) Demurrers to First Amended
Cross-Complaint;
Motion for Leave to Amend
 
T/R:     CROSS-DEFENDANTS' DEMURRERS TO THE
FIRST, SECOND, THIRD AND FIFTH CAUSES OF ACTION ARE SUSTAINED WITH LEAVE TO
AMEND.
 
CROSS-DEFENDANTS' DEMURRERS TO THE
FOURTH, SIXTH AND SEVENTH CAUSES OF ACTION ARE SUSTAINED WITHOUT LEAVE TO
AMEND.
 
CROSS-COMPLAINANT TO FILE AND SERVE A SECOND
AMENDED CROSS-COMPLAINT WITHIN 30 DAYS OF NOTICE OF RULING. CROSS-DEFENDANTS TO
FILE AND SERVE RESPONSES WITHIN 30 DAYS THEREAFTER.
 
CROSS-DEFENDANTS TO NOTICE
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative, please
email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with
notice to opposing counsel (or self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the
day of the hearing.
The Court considers the moving papers,
oppositions, and replies. 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On February 16, 2024, Defendant Shmuel
Erde filed a cross-complaint against Plaintiff Cartwright Termite & Pest
Control, Inc., Defendant Balboa, LLC and Dolores Golden, asserting causes of
action for (1) breach of agreement to postpone foreclosure sale; (2) failure to
comply with foreclosure statutes; (3) conspiracy to divest cross-complainant of
a broker’s commission; (4) divesting cross-complainant of a broker’s
commission; (5) conspiracy to divest cross-complainant of equity in real
property; (6) divesting cross-complainant of equity in real property; and (7)
refusal to comply with discovery efforts. 
 
Following the Court’s sustaining of
Cross-Defendant Cartwright’s demurrer, on July 5, 2024 Erde filed the operative
first amended cross-complaint, asserting causes of action for (1) breach of
contract; (2) setting aside trustee’s sale; (3) breach of the implied covenant
of good faith and fair dealing; (4) common counts – money had and recieved; (5)
breach of promise to expunge lis pendens; (6) common counts – meruit and
quantum valebant; (7) common counts – lack of consideration.
 
Erde, via the entity Crenshaw LLC, is
the former owner of real property on Crenshaw Blvd. Cross-Defendant Balboa had
a lien on the property that had gone into default for the property’s entity
owner’s failure to make payments. Balboa noticed a trustee’s sale of the
property. Erde then purchased the entity which owned the property. Erde alleges
that the parties agreed that Erde would sell the property to Liberty for
$1,800,000, with $175,000 going to Carwright to expunge its Lis Pendens and
$1,198,000 going to Balboa to repay the lien, instead of going through the
trustees’ sale. Erde alleges Balboa changed the date of the trustee’s sale and
sold the property to Liberty directly for less money in violation of the
parties’ previous agreement. Erde alleges Cross-Defendants went through with
the sale without him to deprive him of his broker’s commission on the sale.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A.
Cross-Defendant Cartwright Termite & Pest Control, Inc.’s Demurrer to First
Amended Cross-Complaint
 
A demurrer to a complaint may be taken to the whole complaint or to any
of the causes of action in it.  (CCP §
430.50(a).)  A demurrer challenges only
the legal sufficiency of the complaint, not the truth of its factual
allegations or the plaintiff's ability to prove those allegations.  (Picton v. Anderson Union High Sch. Dist. (1996)
50 Cal. App. 4th 726, 732.)  The court
must treat as true the complaint's material factual allegations, but not
contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law.  (Id. at 732-33.)  The complaint is to be construed liberally to
determine whether a cause of action has been stated.  (Id. at 733.)
 
1. Third
Cause of Action for Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing, Fifth Cause of Action for Breach of Promise to Ex Punge Lis Pendens
 
Cartwright demurs to the third cause of action on the ground that Erde
has failed to allege a contract between Erde and Cartwright. Erde alleges
Cartwright agreed to expunge the lis pendens on the property in exchange for
$175,000.00 from the proceeds of the sale of the property from Erde to Liberty.
Erde alleges Cartwright then conspired with the other Cross-Defendants to sell
the property to Liberty without including Erde. Cartwright asserts that this
cause of action fails because Erde has not alleged whether the contract was
written, oral, or implied; nor has Erde alleged conduct that goes beyond a mere
breach into bad faith. The Court agrees that Erde does not allege the
circumstances of the agreement. This is insufficient to state a cause of action
for breach of contract or breach of the implied covenant of good faith. (CCP § 430.10(g).)
 
The demurrer to the third and fifth causes of action is SUSTAINED with
leave to amend.
 
2. Fourth
and Sixth Causes of Action for Common Counts
 
Cartwright demurs the fourth, sixth and seventh causes of action on the
grounds that they fail to allege sufficient facts against Cartwright. “The only
essential allegations of a common count are ‘(1) the statement of indebtedness
in a certain sum, (2) the consideration, i.e., goods sold, work done, etc., and
(3) nonpayment.’” (Farmers Insurance Exchange v. Zerin (1997) 53
Cal.App.4th 445, 460 (citing 4 Witkin, Cal. Procedure (3d ed. 1985) Pleading, §
508, p. 543).) 
 
Erde alleges the same facts discussed above for the common counts clams.
Erde does not allege a sum of indebtedness, nor any services rendered or goods
provided. This is insufficient to state causes of action for common counts.
 
The demurrer to the fourth and sixth causes of action is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend. The Court declines to allow leave to amend as to these
causes of action because there do not appear to be any facts that would
establish claims for common counts.
 
3. Seventh
Cause of Action for Common Counts – Lack of Consideration
 
Cartwright demurs to the seventh cause
of action for common counts – lack of consideration on the ground that it is
not cognizable causes of action. The Court agrees.
 
The demurrer to the seventh cause of
action is SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
B.
Cross-Defendant Balboa, LLC’s Demurrer to First Amended Cross-Complaint
 
1. Standing
 
Balboa demurs to the entire complaint on the ground that Erde does not
have standing to bring these causes of action because he was only allowed to
substitute into this action as the successor of Crenshaw, LLC. Balboa asserts
that he cannot allege personal causes of action. In opposition, Erde represents
that he purchased Crenshaw and thus stood in the shoes of Crenshaw for the
events in the pleadings. This is sufficient to allege standing. 
 
2. First
Cause of Action for Breach of Contract and Third Cause of Action for Breach of
Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing
 
Balboa demurs to the first and third causes of action on the ground that
Erde has not alleged a contract between Erde and Balboa. Erde alleges he and
Balboa had an agreement to allow Erde to sell the property to Liberty and
breached the agreement by foreclosing and selling directly to Liberty. Erde
does not allege whether the agreement was written, oral or implied. As discussed,
this is insufficient to allege the existence of a contract. 
 
The demurrer to the first and third causes of action is SUSTAINED with
leave to amend.
 
3. Second
Cause of Action for Wrongful Foreclosure
 
Balboa asserts the second cause of action fails because Erde has not
alleged tender. (See Abdallah v.
United Sav. Bank (1996) 43
Cal.App.4th 1101, 1110.) Erde does not address this in the pleading or
opposition. 
 
The demurrer to the second
cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to amend.
 
4. Fourth,
Sixth and Seventh Causes of Action for Common Counts
 
Balboa asserts that the claims for common counts fail because Erde has
not alleged indebtedness for goods or services, and the seventh claim is not a
cognizable cause of action. The Court agrees.
 
The demurrer to the fourth, sixth and seventh causes of action is
SUSTAINED without leave to amend.
 
C.
Cross-Defendant Dolores Golden’s Demurrer to First Amended Cross-Complaint
 
1. Third
Cause of Action for Breach of the Implied Covenant of Good Faith and Fair
Dealing
 
Golden demurs to the third cause of action on the ground that Erde has
not alleged a contract between Erde and Golden. Erde alleges Golden acted as
the buyer Liberty’s broker and conspired to deprive Erde of his equity in the
property. This is insufficient to allege a contract or a bad faith breach of
the contract.
 
The demurrer to the third cause of action is SUSTAINED with leave to
amend.
 
2. Sixth and
Seventh Causes of Action for Common Counts
 
Golden asserts the claims for common counts fail because Erde has not
alleged indebtedness for goods or services, and the seventh claim is not a
cognizable cause of action. The Court agrees.
 
The demurrer to the sixth and seventh causes of action is SUSTAINED
without leave to amend.
 
D.
Cross-Complainant's Motion for Leave to Amend
 
As Cross-Defendants' demurrers have been sustained, Cross-Complainant's
motion for leave is DENIED as MOOT.              
 