 Case Number:  22STCV09356    Hearing Date:   September 12, 2024    Dept:  54 


Superior Court of California
County of Los Angeles




 
Rodolfo G. Meza,


 
 
 
Plaintiff,


 
Case No.:
 


 
22STCV09356




 
vs.


 


 
Tentative Ruling
 




 
Kia America, Inc.,


 
 
 
Defendant.


 


 




 


 


 


 



 
Hearing Date: September 12, 2024
Department 54, Judge Maurice A. Leiter
Motion for Attorney’s Fees;
Motion to Tax Costs
 
T/R:      PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR ATTORNEY’S FEES
IS GRANTED IN THE AMOUNT OF $68,941.50.
 
DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO TAX COSTS IS
DENIED.
 
PLAINTIFF TO NOTICE. 
 
If the parties wish to submit on the tentative,
please email the courtroom at SMCdept54@lacourt.org with notice to opposing counsel (or
self-represented party) before 8:00 am on the day of the hearing.
 
The Court considers the moving papers,
opposition, and reply.
 
BACKGROUND
                
This is a lemon law action arising out
of Plaintiff’s purchase of 2020 Kia Forte manufactured and distributed by
Defendant Kia America, Inc.
 
ANALYSIS
 
A. Plaintiff’s Motion for Attorney’s
Fees
 
The Song-Beverly Act provides, “[i]f
the buyer prevails in an action under this section, the buyer shall be allowed
by the court to recover as part of the judgment a sum equal to the aggregate
amount of costs and expenses, including attorney's fees based on actual time
expended, determined by the court to have been reasonably incurred by the buyer
in connection with the commencement and prosecution of such action.” (Civ. Code
§ 1794(d).) 
 
Plaintiff asserts that Consumer Law
Experts, PC incurred $68,941.50 in fees to prosecute this action, including
$3,000.00 in anticipated fees to respond to Defendant’s opposition to the
motion and attend the hearing. 
 
Plaintiff’s counsel charges between $424
and $510.00 per hour and spent 157.50 hours on this case over approximately two
years. Defendant argues that counsel’s hours are unreasonable, and counsel’s
hourly rates are excessive. The Court does not take issue with counsel’s hourly
rates. The Court also does not find counsel’s billing entries excessive. The
Court has reviewed the billing entries cited by Defendant; none are so
egregious to warrant being reduced. This action lasted two years and included
extensive discovery, motion work, and trial preparation. The Court finds
counsel’s fees reasonable.
 
The Court finds no basis for the 1.5
multiplier requested by Plaintiff. The case did not require unusual skill,
expertise, risk or time commitment.
 
Plaintiff’s motion for attorney’s fees
is GRANTED in the amount of $68,991.50.
 
B. Defendant’s Motion to Tax Costs
 
Civil Code §1794(d) provides that a
buyer who prevails in an action under that section, “shall be allowed by the
court to recover as a part of the judgment a sum equal to the aggregate amount
of costs and expenses, including attorney’s fees based on actual time expended,
determined by the court to have been reasonably incurred by the buyer in
connection with the commencement and the prosecution of such action.”  
 
“Section 1794, subdivision (d), permits
the prevailing buyer to recover both ‘costs’ and ‘expenses.’” (Jensen v. BMW
of North America (1995) 35 Cal.App.4th 112, 137.) “[I]t is clear the
Legislature intended the word ‘expenses’ to cover items not included in the
detailed statutory definition of ‘costs.’” (Id.) Jensen v. BMW of
North America expressly states that the costs provision under the
Song-Beverly Act is meant to include recovery beyond those codified in C.C.P.
§1033.5. (Id.)
 
Defendant moves to tax certain filing
and motion fees, deposition costs, service of process costs, expert witness
fees, and court reporter fees from Plaintiff’s memorandum of costs on the
ground that they were not reasonably necessary for litigation. The fees cited
by Defendant are all standard costs incurred to litigate lemon law actions; the
Song-Beverly Act allows for their recovery. 
 
Defendant’s motion is DENIED.


 