  Case Number:  21STCV31953    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  19  HEARING DATE:               12/05/2024   CASE NAME:                       Gloria Hall, et al. v.  Olympia Medical Center, et al. CASE NUMBER:                 21STCV31953 DATE FILED:                      08/30/2021 TRIAL DATE:                      03/25/2025 PROCEEDING:                   Motion for Summary Judgment-Unopposed ______________________________________________________________________________    TENTATIVE RULING After full consideration of the papers and evidence filed, inferences  reasonably drawn therefrom, and oral argument at the hearing, Defendant Dan  I. Naim’s unopposed Motion for Summary Judgment is GRANTED. The Court signs the proposed  judgment filed on May 20, 2024 after striking the signature line on page 2,  lines 8-9 and substituting “December 5, 2024” for “August 8, 2024” on page 1,  line 28.  Counsel for Defendant Dan I. Naim  to give notice.    STATEMENT OF THE CASE This case arises out of alleged wrongful death. In the  First Amended Complaint (“FAC”), Plaintiffs Gloria Hall (“Decedent”), by  and through her Successors-In-Interest Sharol Johnson and Dante Hall, Sharol  Johnson, and Dante Hall (collectively, “Plaintiffs”) bring suit against  Defendants Olympia Medical  Center, Medical Staff of Olympia Medical Center, Mehradad Vosoghi, M.D., Dan  Naim, Pouya Benyamini, Alecto Healthcare Services LLC, Salam Alkasspooles, and  Linda Vuu, M.D. (collectively, “Defendants”) alleging the following causes of  action  1.      Elder Abuse – Custodial Neglect and  Reckless, Willful Conduct (Welf. & Inst. Code, § 15600 et seq.); 2.      Negligence/Professional Negligence; 3.      Wrongful Death; and 4.      Intentional Infliction of Emotional  Distress.  Plaintiffs allege that Defendants, including Defendant  Naim, who is alleged to be ¿an  employee, contractor and/or agent of Olympia Medical Center, (FAC, ¶¶ 12, 24), failed to provide  proper medical care to Decedent while Decedent was a patient at Olympia Medical Center.   The FAC alleges that, on or about  August 1, 2020, Decedent suffered a ground-level fall and was transported by  ambulance to Olympia Medical  Center’s emergency department on August 2, 2020 where she was diagnosed  with a pubis ramus fracture for which she planned to receive treatment for and  return home. (Id at ¶ 30.)   The FAC alleges that Defendant  Naim admitted Decedent due to her general weakness, repeated falls and the  pelvic fracture.” (Id. at ¶ 32.)   The FAC alleges that, “[a] ¿decubitus ulcer on the coccyx  was n¿oted and a  disimpaction was performed at Decedent’s bedside,” but that Defendant Benyamini  “determined that no surgical intervention was necessary.” (Id. at ¶ 38)   The FAC alleges that, “[o]¿n August 9, 2020, three days  after the ulcer on Decedent’s coccyx was first noted, Dr. Naim finally ordered  a wound care consultation,” with the initial wound assessment revealing “a  sacral pressure injury, which was not present on admission.” (Id. at ¶  40.)   Plaintiffs allege that, “¿[o]n August 26, 2020, Dr. Naim  noted in his report that Decedent likely had a perforation and severe sigmoid  colitis,” which was confirmed by x-ray, and “that on August 24, 2020, Olympia  scheduled a second sigmoidoscopy for Decedent in order to rectify the errors  made in the original surgery but did not inform Plaintiff Johnson or the family  of this plain.” (Id. at ¶ 55.)   Defendant Naim filed the instant  Motion for Summary Judgment (the “Motion”).    GROUNDS FOR MOTION            Pursuant to Code of Civil  Procedure section 437c, Defendant Naim moves for summary judgment on the  grounds that Plaintiffs cannot establish the necessary elements of their claims  against him because there is no triable issue of fact as to whether he breached  a duty to Decedent causing Decedent’s death. DISCUSSION   I.                    Procedural Requirements   The Code of Civil Procedure  requires that the notice of motion and supporting paper be served on all other  parties at least 75 days prior to the hearing date, and that the motion be  heard no later than 30 days prior to trial. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 437c(a)(2),  437c(a)(3).)    Further, the Code of Civil  Procedure prescribes that:   The  supporting papers shall include a separate statement setting forth plainly and  concisely all material facts which the moving party contends are undisputed.  Each of the material facts stated shall be followed by a reference to the  supporting evidence. The failure to comply with this requirement of a separate  statement may in the court's discretion constitute a sufficient ground for  denial of the motion. (Code Civil Proc., § 437c(b)(1);  see also Cal. R. Ct., 3.1350(c)(2) & (d).)    Here, Defendant Naim provides the required separate  statement. The Motion was filed and served more than 75 days before the hearing  date and will be heard more than 30 days prior to trial. The Court finds the Motion  timely and properly filed.    II.                 LEGAL STANDARDS   Code of Civil Procedure section  437c, subdivision (c) provides that:   The  motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all the papers submitted show  that there is no triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving  party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law. In determining if the  papers show that there is no triable issue as to any material fact, the court  shall consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers, except the evidence  to which objections have been made and sustained by the court, and all  inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence, except summary judgment  shall not be granted by the court based on inferences reasonably deducible from  the evidence if contradicted by other inferences or evidence that raise a  triable issue as to any material fact. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(c).)   Further, pursuant to Code of  Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (f)(1):   “A  party may move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action  within an action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for  damages, or one or more issues of duty, if that party contends that the cause  of action has no merit or that there is no affirmative defense thereto, or that  there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of action, or both,  or that there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294  of the Civil Code, or that one or more defendants either owed or did not owe a  duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” (Code Civil Proc., § 437c(f)(1).)   The purpose of the law of summary  judgment is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the parties'  pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations, trial is in  fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar  v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.) In analyzing motions  for summary adjudication, courts must apply a three-step analysis: “(1)  identify the issues framed by the pleadings; (2) determine whether the moving  party has negated the opponent's claims; and (3) determine whether the  opposition has demonstrated the existence of a triable, material factual  issue.” (Hinesley v. Oakshade Town Center  (2005) 135 Cal.App.4th 289, 294.) Pursuant to Code of Civil Procedure  section 437c, subdivision (p)(2):   A  defendant or cross-defendant has met his or her burden of showing that a cause  of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the  cause of action, even if not separately pleaded, cannot be established, or that  there is a complete defense to the cause of action. Once the defendant or  cross-defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff or  cross-complainant to show that a triable issue of one or more material facts  exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. The plaintiff or  cross-complainant shall not rely upon the allegations or denials of its  pleadings to show that a triable issue of material fact exists but, instead,  shall set forth the specific facts showing that a triable issue of material  fact exists as to the cause of action or a defense thereto. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c(p)(2).)   The California Supreme Court in Aguilar,  supra, laid down the requisite burden for the party moving for summary  judgment:   From  commencement to conclusion, the moving party bears the burden of persuasion  that there is no genuine issue of material fact and that he is entitled to  judgment as a matter of law. There is a genuine issue of material fact if, and  only if, the evidence would allow a reasonable trier of fact to find the  underlying fact in favor of the party opposing the motion in accordance with  the applicable standard of proof. Initially, the moving party bears a burden of  production to make a prima facie showing of the nonexistence of any genuine  issue of material fact. If he carries his burden of production, he causes a  shift: the opposing party is then subjected to a burden of production of his  own to make a prima facie showing of the existence of a genuine issue of  material fact. How each party may carry his burden of persuasion and/or  production depends on which would bear what burden of proof at trial. Thus, if  a plaintiff who would bear the burden of proof by a preponderance of evidence  at trial moves for summary judgment, he must present evidence that would require  a reasonable trier of fact to find any underlying material fact more likely  than not. (Aguilar, supra, 25  Cal.4th at 857.)   The court must “view the evidence  in the light most favorable to the opposing party and accept all inferences  reasonably drawn therefrom.” (Hinesley,  supra, 135 Cal.App.4th at 294; Dore  v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389 (Courts “liberally  construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary judgment and  resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.”).) A motion for  summary adjudication must be denied where the moving party's evidence does not  prove all material facts, even  in the absence of any opposition, (Leyva  v. Sup. Ct. (1985) 164 Cal.App.3d 462, 475), or where the opposition is  weak. (Salasguevara v. Wyeth Labs., Inc.  (1990) 222 Cal.App.3d 379, 384, 387.)   “[I]n ruling on a motion for summary judgment, a trial  court must consider all the evidence submitted, except the court may ignore  evidence not disclosed in moving party's separate statement of undisputed facts.”  (San Diego Watercrafts, Inc. v. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (2002) 102  Cal.App.4th 308, 315.) However, the court may in its discretion look to  evidence outside the separate statement, subject to due process concerns. (Id.  at 315-317.)   A moving defendant has two  means by which to shift the burden of proof to the plaintiff to produce  evidence creating  a triable issue of fact. (Brantley v.  Pisaro (1996) 42 Cal.App.4th 1591, 1598.) “The defendant may rely upon  factually insufficient discovery responses by the plaintiff to show that the  plaintiff cannot establish an essential element of the cause of action sued  upon.” (Id. (citing Union Bank v. Superior Court (1995) 31  Cal.App.4th 573, 590).) “Alternatively, the defendant may utilize the tried and  true technique of negating (‘disproving’) an essential element of the  plaintiff's cause of action.” (Id. (citing Chevron U.S.A., Inc. v.  Superior Court  (1992) 4 Cal.App.4th 544, 552-553, disapproved of on other grounds by Camargo  v. Tjaarda Dairy (2001) 25 Cal.4th 1235); see Code Civ. Proc., §  437c(p)(2).)   However, to shift the burden based on factually insufficient  discovery responses, the moving defendant must show that plaintiff cannot  reasonably obtain evidence to prove a cause of action, which is more than  simply arguing that there is an absence of evidence. (Gaggero v. Yura (2003) 108 Cal.App.4th 884, 891.)   III.              ANALYSIS   As an initial matter, on November 21, 2024, Plaintiffs filed  a Notice of Non-Opposition stating that they do not oppose the Motion.   Defendant Naim moves for  summary judgment on the grounds that there is no triable issue of fact  regarding whether Defendant Naim failed to comply with the standard of case in  his care and treatment of Decedent or that Defendant Naim’s conduct was a legal  cause of Decedent’s injuries or death. (See Motion, pp. 7-10.)   Plaintiffs allege that Defendant Naim is liable for  negligently providing care to Decedent. (See FAC at ¶¶ 32-74, 119, 142, 152.)    “The elements of a cause of  action in tort for professional negligence are: (1) the duty of the  professional to use such skill, prudence and diligence as other members of his  profession commonly possess and exercise; (2) a breach of that duty; (3) a  proximate causal connection between the negligent conduct and the resulting  injury; and (4) actual loss or damage resulting from the professional's  negligence.” (Turpin v. Sortini (1982) 31 Cal.3d 220, 229–230; accord Banerian  v. O'Malley (1974) 42 Cal.App.3d 604, 612; see Brown v. Colm (1974)  11 Cal.3d 639, 642–643 [“It is settled that a doctor is required to apply that  degree of skill, knowledge and care ordinarily exercised by other members of  his profession under similar circumstances.”].)   “The standard of skill, knowledge  and care prevailing in a medical community is ordinarily a matter within the  knowledge of experts.” (Jambazian v. Borden (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 836,  844) Thus, proof of the standard of ordinary care “is ordinarily provided by  another physician, and if a witness has disclosed sufficient knowledge of the  subject to entitle his opinion to go to the jury, the question of the degree of  his knowledge goes to the weight of his testimony rather than to its admissibility.”  (Brown, supra, 11 Cal.3d 639, 643.) “Expert evidence in a  malpractice suit is conclusive as to the proof of the prevailing standard of  skill and learning in the locality and of the propriety of particular conduct  by the practitioner in particular instances because such standard and skill is  not a matter of general knowledge and can only be supplied by expert  testimony.” (Willard v. Hagemeister (1981) 121 Cal.App.3d 406, 412  (internal citation omitted) (quoting Starr v. Mooslin (1971) 14  Cal.App.3d 988, 999); see Jambazian, supra, 25 Cal.App.4th at 844  [“Whether the standard of care in the community has been breached presents the  basic issue in a malpractice action and can only be proved by opinion testimony  unless the medical question is within the common knowledge of laypersons.”].) Competent  opinion evidence by an expert that is wholly uncontradicted by any contrary  opinions submitted on behalf of the opposing party will support the granting of  a summary judgment. (Wynner v. Buxton (1979) 97 Cal.App.3d 166,  172–173.)   Evidence Code section 720 states  that:   (a)  A person is qualified to testify as an expert if he has special knowledge,  skill, experience, training, or education sufficient to qualify him as an  expert on the subject to which his testimony relates. Against the objection of  a party, such special knowledge, skill, experience, training, or education must  be shown before the witness may testify as an expert. (b)  A witness’ special knowledge, skill, experience, training, or education may be  shown by any otherwise admissible evidence, including his own testimony. (Evid. Code, § 720.)   Evidence Code section 801  provides that:   If  a witness is testifying as an expert, his testimony in the form of an opinion  is limited to such an opinion as is: (a)  Related to a subject that is sufficiently beyond common experience that the  opinion of an expert would assist the trier of fact; and (b)  Based on matter (including his special knowledge, skill, experience, training,  and education) perceived by or personally known to the witness or made known to  him at or before the hearing, whether or not admissible, that is of a type that  reasonably may be relied upon by an expert in forming an opinion upon the  subject to which his testimony relates, unless an expert is precluded by law  from using such matter as a basis for his opinion. (Evid.  Code, § 801.)   Here,  the Court finds that Dr. Andrew Wachtel is qualified to testify as an expert  regarding the prevailing standard of skill, knowledge, and care, and considers  the declaration Dr. Andrew Wachtel as evidence in determining the applicable  standard of care. (Andrew Wachtel Decl., ¶¶ 1-5, Ex. A.)   The Court finds that the  uncontroverted testimony of Dr. Andrew Wachtel establishes that Defendant Naim  did not breach any duty of care owed to Plaintiffs. (Wachtel Decl. at ¶¶ 6-7;  see Defendant’s SSUMF Nos. 15-18.)   Based on this evidence, the Court finds that Defendant Naim  sustains his initial burden to make a prima facie showing that there is no  triable issue of material fact regarding whether he breached any duty of care  owed to Plaintiffs.   Plaintiffs filed a Notice of Non-Opposition, has not produced  any evidence in opposition to the Motion, and does not dispute any of the facts  set forth in Defendant Naim’s separate statement.    Thus, the Court finds that Plaintiffs fail to sustain  their burden to demonstrate the existence of a triable issue of fact.   Accordingly, the Court finds that Defendant Naim is  entitled to judgment as a matter of law and GRANTS the Motion in its entirety.   