 Case Number:  21STCV30740    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  8, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


21STCV30740




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Compel Initial Response to Supplemental Interrogatory
(2)
  Compel Initial Response to Special Interrogatories, Set One
(3)
  Compel Initial Response to Request for Production of Documents, Set Three 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs
  Wayne Davis, Aaron Grim, Amy Higdon, Kenneth Hill, Shalonda Kemp, Kimiesha
  McGruder, Kaynesha Starks, and Christopher Thomas




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Aster Gerbermichael



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
            Plaintiffs Wayne Davis, Aaron
Grim, Amy Higdon, Kenneth Hill, Shalonda Kemp, Kimiesha McGruder, Kaynesha
Starks, and Christopher Thomas (“Plaintiffs”) move to compel Defendant Aster
Gerbermichael (“Defendant”) to serve verified responses, without objections, to
Supplemental Interrogatory, Special Interrogatories, Set One, and Request for
Production of Documents, Set Three. Plaintiffs seek monetary sanctions. 
 
Defendant opposes. No reply has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Interrogatories
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a
monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
Supplemental Interrogatories 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 2030.070 provides: 
 
“(b) A party may propound a supplemental interrogatory
twice before the initial setting of a trial date, and, subject to the time
limits on discovery proceedings and motions provided in Chapter 8 (commencing
with Section 2024.010), once after the initial setting of a trial date.” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.070(b).)   
 
Requests
for Production
 
Under Code of Civil Procedure Section 2031.300, if a party fails to
serve a timely response to a demand for inspection, the party making the demand
may move for an order compelling response to the demand. (Code Civ. Pro §
2031.300 (b).) The party who fails to serve a timely response to a demand for
inspection waives any objection to the demand unless the court finds that the
party has subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance or
party’s failure was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc. § 2031.300 (a)(1)- (2).) 
 
Courts shall impose a monetary sanction against any party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel a response to a demand for
inspection unless the party acted with substantial justification or other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. §
2031.300 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
DISCUSSION
 
On June 4, 2024, Plaintiffs served Special Interrogatories, Set One
and Request for Production, Set Three to Defendant’s counsel. (Poulter Decl. ¶
2, Exh. 1.) Responses were due July 8, 2024, but none were provided.[1] On
June 17, 2024, Plaintiffs electronically served Supplemental Pre-Trial
Interrogatory to Defendant’s counsel. (Poulter Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. 1.) Responses
were due July 19, 2024, but none were provided. 
 
In opposition, Defendant argues the motions should have been mailed
since Defendant’s counsel did not consent to electronic service. As a result,
Defendant argues the motions were not timely filed. After receiving Plaintiffs’
counsel’s email that the discovery was overdue, Defendant’s counsel asserted
she did not receive any discovery, and therefore, objections were not waived.
(Opp., 3.) Defendant also points out that the purported proof of service for
Special Interrogatories, Set One and Request for Production, Set Three states
it is for “Plaintiff’s Notice of Deposition of Wanza Tolliver”. (Id.) 
 
Plaintiffs have not filed a reply. Nevertheless, Code of Civil
Procedure section 1010.6 states in relevant part: 
 
“(1) This subdivision applies to mandatory electronic service. The
court may order electronic service on a person represented by counsel who has
appeared in an action or proceeding.
(2) A person represented by counsel, who has appeared in an action or
proceeding, shall accept electronic service of a notice or document that may be
served by mail, express mail, overnight delivery, or facsimile transmission.
(3) Before first serving a represented person electronically, the
person effecting service shall confirm the appropriate electronic service
address for the counsel being served.” 
 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 1010.6, subd. (b)(1),(2),(3).)[2]
 
Here, Defendant does not dispute that Plaintiffs used the correct
email address for Defendant’s counsel. Therefore, under section 1010.6, the
motions were timely filed. However, as Defendant points out, Plaintiffs have
not provided a proof of service of the Special Interrogatories, Set One and
Request for Production, Set Three. Therefore, the motions to compel Special
Interrogatories, Set One and Request for Production, Set Three is denied. On
the other hand, because there is a proof of service of the Supplemental
Pre-Trial Interrogatory, and no responses was served, the motion to compel is
granted. 
 
Plaintiffs requests $804 in monetary
sanctions for the motion to compel Supplemental Pre-Trial
Interrogatory, and
$2,214 each for the remaining two motions, against Defendant and his counsel of
record. This represents an hourly rate of $705 and a $99 filing fee. (Poulter
Decl. ¶ 4-5.) Although Defendant argues that he did not receive a discovery
request,[3] he provides no
explanation for the continued failure to respond. Accordingly, there does not
appear to be substantial justification for the discovery abuse, nor does the
imposition of sanctions appear unjust. However the amount requested is
excessive given the type of motion, lack of reply, and the fact Plaintiff can
appear remotely at the hearing. Furthermore, Plaintiffs provide no extrinsic
proof of a $99 filing fee for this motion and fail to sufficiently support the
hourly rate. (See Code Civ. Proc., § 2023.040 [a request for a
sanction shall be “accompanied by a declaration setting forth facts supporting
the amount of any monetary sanction sought”].) Therefore, the Court awards
sanctions in the amount of $510 (1 hour of attorney time at $450/hour to file
and appear at the hearing, plus a $60 filing fee, for one motion).
             
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Plaintiffs’ Motions to Compel Special Interrogatories,
Set One and Request for Production, Set Three, are DENIED. 
 
Plaintiffs’ motion to compel Supplemental Pre-Trial Interrogatory is
GRANTED. Defendant Aster Gerbermichael shall provide verified responses,
without objection, within 10 days.
 
The Court further GRANTS Plaintiffs’ request for monetary sanctions
against Defendant and his attorney of record, jointly and severally, in the reduced
amount of $510.00.
Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to counsel for Plaintiffs within 30 days
of the date of this order.
 
Plaintiffs
shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service of such. 


