 Case Number:  22STCV35550    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  8, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV35550




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Reopen Discovery for the Limited Purpose of Completing an Independent
  Medical Examination




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Tengyuan Ma




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Jose Rafael Espinosa Mena



 
MOTION
 
            Defendant Tengyuan Ma (“Defendant”)
moves to reopen discovery for the limited purpose of conducting a
neuropsychological examination of Plaintiff Jose Rafael Espinosa Mena
(“Plaintiff”). Plaintiff opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
 
BACKGROUND
 
The complaint
was filed on November 9, 2022, alleging negligence based on a motor vehicle
collision that occurred on September 15, 2022. Trial was initially set for May
8, 2024. 
 
Defendant’s
answer was filed on December 21, 2022. 
 
On March 14,
2024, pursuant to stipulation, the Court continued trial and related dates to
September 16, 2024. 
 
On August 16,
2024, the Court granted Defendant’s ex parte application and continued trial to
December 2, 2024. The discovery and pre-trial motion cut-off dates remain
associated with the previous September 16, 2024 trial date unless stipulated by
the parties or through a noticed motion to reopen discovery. (Min. Order,
8/16/24.) 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“On motion of any party, the court may grant leave to
complete discovery proceedings, or to have a motion concerning discovery heard,
closer to the initial trial date, or to reopen discovery after a new trial date
has been set.¿ This motion shall be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration under Section 2016.040.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd.
(a).)¿ 
¿¿ 
“In exercising its discretion to grant or deny this motion,
the court shall take into consideration any matter relevant to the leave
requested, including, but not limited to, the following: (1) The necessity and
the reasons for the discovery.¿ (2) The diligence or lack of diligence of the
party seeking the discovery or the hearing of a discovery motion, and the
reasons that the discovery was not completed or that the discovery motion was
not heard earlier.¿ (3) Any likelihood that permitting the discovery or hearing
the discovery motion will prevent the case from going to trial on the date set,
or otherwise interfere with the trial calendar, or result in prejudice to any
other party.¿ (4) The length of time that has elapsed between any date
previously set, and the date presently set, for the trial of the action.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (b)(1)-(4).)¿¿¿ 
 
“The court shall impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7
(commencing with Section 2023.010) against any party, person, or attorney who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to extend or to reopen discovery,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust.”¿ (Code Civ. Proc., section 2024.050, subd. (c).)¿¿¿ 
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
The Declaration of Jeffrey E. Garcia, Defendant’s counsel, does not describe
a meet and confer to reopen discovery.
 
DISCUSSION
 
Defendant
asserts that Plaintiff failed to disclose an October 2023 brain MRI until
expert designations were due on July 29, 2024. (Garcia Decl. ¶ 2, Exh. A.)
Before this date, Defendant asserts that Plaintiff represented that all
relevant medical information had been provided. Defendant also argues that
Plaintiff’s treating providers indicated in depositions that they were unaware
of any neuropsychological testing or treatment. 
(Id. ¶ 8.) Defendant contends this omission limited him from
assessing Plaintiff’s claimed injuries. As a result, Defendant asks to reopen
discovery to conduct a neuropsychological examination of Plaintiff. Defendant
asserts that granting the motion will not affect the current trial date since
his expert Dr. Delis is available to conduct the examination before trial. 
 
Therefore,
Defendant argument for granting this motion rests on the theory that the
October 2023 MRI was essential to finding that a neuropsychological examination
was needed. However, in opposition, Plaintiff argues Defendant started planning
three examinations in March 2024: an orthopedic, neurological, and
neuropsychological examination. Plaintiff further asserts that Dr. Delis was
scheduled to examine Plaintiff on June 12, 2024, but that it was unilaterally
cancelled by Defendant; therefore, Defendant was not diligent. 
 
Plaintiff
also contends that he already appeared for a mental and physical examination
with a neurologist on June 11, 2024, and that Defendant’s expert Dr. Delis will
not be prejudiced from rendering an opinion since he can rely on Plaintiff’s
examination with his expert Dr. Schaefer. Plaintiff also asserts he will not
argue at trial that Dr. Delis’ opinions lack foundation because he did not
examine Plaintiff. (Opp., 1.) Plaintiff further argues that the October 2023
MRI report was not previously disclosed because it was being produced by his
experts, and subject to his discovery objection that the requests sought
premature disclosure of expert opinion. (Opp., 5-6.) 
 
In reply,
Defendant argues the existence of the MRI was not expert opinion. He further
contends he cancelled the June 12, 2024 neuropsychological examination because there
was no evidence that Plaintiff was tested or treated for these injuries.
Defendant also argues that the credibility of Dr. Delis could be weakened at
trial since he did not personally examine Plaintiff. Defendant also contends
the psychological examination that already took place is different from a
neuropsychological examination and has no bearing on the issue here. 
 
Therefore, in
light of Plaintiff’s failure to produce the MRI report from October 2023 and
because there was no evidence that Plaintiff underwent any neuropsychological
testing or treatment until disclosure of the report, it appears that Defendant acted
reasonably diligently to continue trial and reopen discovery after learning of
the MRI report on July 29, 2024. Additionally, it appears that the examination
can be conducted before the trial date. Therefore, the motion to reopen
discovery for the limited purpose of conducting the neuropsychological
examination with Dr. Delis is granted. 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly,
Defendant’s Motion to Reopen Discovery for the Limited Purpose of Completing an
Independent Medical Examination is GRANTED. 
 
Defendant to provide notice and file a proof of service of such. 
 
 
 
PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  8, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV35550




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Continue Trial 




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant
  Tengyuan Ma




OPPOSING PARTY:


Plaintiff
  Jose Rafael Espinosa Mena



 
MOTION
 
Defendant
Tengyuan Ma (“Defendant”) moves to continue trial to the
conduct the examination that was the subject of the concurrently heard motion
to reopen discovery. Defendant also seeks a continuance based on counsel’s
unavailability on the December 2, 2024 trial date. Plaintiff Jose Rafael
Espinosa Mena (“Plaintiff”) opposes and Defendant replies. 
 
ANALYSIS 
 
Legal Standard 
 
¿“Continuances are granted only
on an affirmative showing of good cause requiring a continuance.”¿ (In re
Marriage of Falcone & Fyke (2008) 164 Cal.App.4th 814, 823.)¿ A trial
court has broad discretion in considering a request for a trial continuance.¿ (Pham
v. Nguyen (1997) 54 Cal.App.4th 11, 13-18.)¿ California Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332 sets forth factors for the Court to consider in ruling on a motion
to continue trial.¿ 
 
“To ensure the prompt disposition
of civil cases, the dates assigned for a trial are firm. All parties and their
counsel must regard the date set for trial as certain.” (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1332(a).)  
 
“A party seeking a continuance of
the date set for trial, whether contested or uncontested or stipulated to by
the parties, must make the request for a continuance by a noticed motion or an
ex parte application under the rules in chapter 4 of this division, with
supporting declarations. The party must make the motion or application as soon
as reasonably practical once the necessity for the continuance is discovered.”
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1332(b).) 
 
“Although continuances of trials
are disfavored, each request for a continuance must be considered on its own
merits. The court may grant a continuance only on an affirmative showing of
good cause requiring the continuance. Circumstances that may indicate good
cause include: 
 
1.       
The
unavailability of an essential lay or expert witness because of death, illness,
or other excusable circumstances; 
2.       
The
unavailability of a party because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances; 
3.       
The
unavailability of trial counsel because of death, illness, or other excusable
circumstances;  
4.       
The
substitution of trial counsel, but only where there is an affirmative showing
that the substitution is required in the interests of justice; 
5.       
The
addition of a new party if: 
A.     
The
new party has not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and prepare
for trial; or 
B.      
The
other parties have not had a reasonable opportunity to conduct discovery and
prepare for trial in regard to the new party’s involvement in the case; 
6.       
A
party’s excused inability to obtain essential testimony, documents, or other
material evidence despite diligent efforts; or 
7.       
A
significant, unanticipated change in the status of the case as a result of
which the case is not ready for trial.”  
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(c).) 
 
“In ruling on a motion or
application for continuance, the court must consider all the facts and
circumstances that are relevant to the determination. These may include: 
 
1.    
The
proximity of the trial date; 
2.    
Whether
there was any previous continuance, extension of time, or delay of trial due to
any party; 
3.    
The
length of the continuance requested; 
4.    
The
availability of alternative means to address the problem that gave rise to the
motion or application for a continuance; 
5.    
The
prejudice that parties or witnesses will suffer as a result of the continuance; 
6.    
If
the case is entitled to a preferential trial setting, the reasons for that
status and whether the need for a continuance outweighs the need to avoid
delay; 
7.    
The
court’s calendar and the impact of granting a continuance on other pending
trials; 
8.    
Whether
trial counsel is engaged in another trial; 
9.    
Whether
all parties have stipulated to a continuance; 
10.   
Whether
the interests of justice are best served by a continuance, by the trial of the
matter, or by imposing conditions on the continuance; and 
11.   
Any
other fact or circumstance relevant to the fair determination of the motion or
application. 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.1332(d).) 
 
Discussion 
 
Defendant’s lead trial counsel argues he is unavailable for
trial on December 2, 2024 due to a long-standing family engagement. (Bigley
Decl. ¶ 5.) He also asserts he has a summary judgment hearing on December 11,
2024 in San Francisco Superior Court, and will be unavailable the following
week for a few days. (Id. ¶ 6.) Defendant also contends that the
continuance will serve to complete the examination discussed in the
concurrently heard motion to reopen discovery. 
 
As a result, Defendant requests a continuance to December
16, 2024, or January 13, 2025. 
 
In opposition, Plaintiff’s counsel contends he is
unavailable in late December 2024, and has eight trials scheduled in January
and February 2025.
 
Defendant’s counsel fails to state that appearing in-person
for the summary judgment hearing is mandatory, but asserts the case involves
multiple parties. (Bigley Decl. ¶ 6.) Nevertheless, Plaintiff has not shown
that trial on December 12, 2024 would be unfeasible, especially given counsels’
trial schedule in January and February 2025. Therefore, the Court finds good
cause for a brief continuance. 
 
Accordingly, the
Court grants the motion to continue trial.
 
CONCLUSION AND ORDER 
 
The Court GRANTS Defendant’s motion to continue trial.
 
The Final Status Conference is continued to November 21,
2024 at 10:00 a.m. in Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse. 
 
Trial is continued to December 12, 2024 at 8:30 a.m. in
Department 32 of the Spring Street Courthouse. 
 
 All discovery and pre-trial motion cut-offs will not be
affected by this order. 
 
Defendant shall give notice of this order, and file a proof
of service of such. 
 
 