 Case Number:  22STCV28583    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  8, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV28583




MOTIONS:  


Application
  to Appear Pro Hac Vice 




MOVING PARTY:


Plaintiffs Manuel Perez, Aiden Perez, and
  Ezekiel Perez 




OPPOSING PARTY:


None
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
On October 18, Plaintiffs Manuel Perez, Aiden Perez, and Ezekiel Perez
(“Plaintiffs”) filed the instant application for Grant Gillenwater
(“Gillenwater”) to appear as counsel pro hac vice, on their behalf. No
opposition has been filed.   
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
California Rules of Court, Rule
9.40 provides that an attorney in good standing in another jurisdiction may
apply to appear as counsel pro hac vice in the State of California by filing a
verified application together with proof of service by mail of a copy of the
application and notice of hearing on all parties who have appeared in the case
and on the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office, with payment of
an application fee, so long as that attorney is not a resident of the State of
California, and is not employed or regularly engaged in substantial business,
professional, or other activities, in the State of California. An active licensee of the State Bar
of California must also be associated as attorney of record. 
 
“A person desiring to appear as counsel pro
hac vice in a superior court must file with the court a verified application
together with proof of service by mail in accordance with Code of Civil
Procedure section 1013a of a copy of the application and of the notice of
hearing of the application on all parties who have appeared in the cause and on
the State Bar of California at its San Francisco office. The notice of hearing
must be given at the time prescribed in Code of Civil Procedure section 1005
unless the court has prescribed a shorter period.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
9.40(c).) 
 
The application must state: (1) the applicant’s residence
and office addresses; (2) the courts to which the applicant has been admitted
to practice and the dates of admission; (3) that the applicant is a member in
good standing in those courts; (4) that the applicant is not currently
suspended or disbarred in any court; (5) the title of each court and cause in
which the applicant has filed an application to appear as counsel pro hac vice
in this state in the preceding two years, the date of each application, and
whether or not it was granted; and (6) the name, address, and telephone number
of the active member of the State Bar of California who is attorney of record
in the local action.  
 
(Cal. Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d).) 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Applications to appear as counsel pro hac vice must contain the facts
specified in California Rules of Court, rule 9.40(d). Gillenwater’s verified application
contains the following information: 
 

Office and residence address
     (Gillenwater Decl. ¶¶ 1–2.) 


The courts to which he has
     been admitted: Florida State Court, Federal Courts for the Middle District
     of Florida, and South District of Florida (Id. ¶ 4.) 


Evidence that he is a member
     in good standing these courts (Id. ¶ 4.) 


Evidence he is not suspended
     or disbarred in any state (Id., ¶ 5.) 


Gillenwater declares he has never
     applied to appear pro hac vice in California (Id., ¶ 7.) 

 
On October 23, 2024, the Court granted the ex parte application to
advance the hearing on this motion. The Court noted that the application did
not appear to attach a proof of service of the application and notice of
hearing on the State Bar of California, and directed counsel to immediately
file a proof of service. (See Minute Order Dated 10/23/24.) No such proof of
service appears on the Court’s docket.
 
Additionally, the Court notes that Gillenwater’s declaration does not
affirmatively state he is not a resident of California and not employed in California,
or that he is not regularly
engaged in substantial business, professional, or other activities, in the
State of California.
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Therefore, Plaintiffs’ application for Grant Gillenwater to appear as
counsel pro hac vice is denied without prejudice. 
 
Plaintiffs shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling to all parties and
file a proof of service of such. 
 
 
 