 Case Number:  20STCV35771    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  8, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


20STCV35771




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to be Relieved as Counsel




MOVING PARTY:


Defendants Steve Self and Jonelle Oil
  Corporation’s Counsel




OPPOSING PARTY:


None



 
BACKGROUND
 
            Defendants
Steve Self and Jonelle Oil Corporation’s (Defendants) counsel of record, Steven L. Boortz, Law Offices of Steven
L. Boortz (Counsel), moves to be relieved as counsel for Defendants. Counsel
contends relief is necessary because there has been a breakdown in the attorney-client
relationship. 
 
            No
opposition has been filed for this motion. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
To be granted relief as counsel, counsel must comply with California
Rules of Court (CRC) 3.1362. Even where grounds for termination exist,
attorneys seeking to withdraw must comply with the procedures set forth in
California Rule of Professional Conduct (CRPC) 3.700 and are subject to
discipline for failure to do so. CRPC 3.700(B) lists various grounds for
mandatory withdrawal. 
 
An attorney's right to terminate the attorney-client relationship and
withdraw from a case is not absolute. (See Vann v. Shilleh (1975) 54
Cal.App.3d 192, 197; People v. Prince (1968) 268 Cal.App.2d 398.) The
decision whether to grant or deny an application for withdrawal is within the
court's discretion, and it does not abuse that discretion by denying the
application on the ground that the attorney's withdrawal would work injustice
upon a third party. (Hodcarriers, Bldg. and Common Laborers Local Union No.
89 v. Miller (1966) 243 Cal.App.2d 391.)
 
The rules have been liberally construed to protect clients. (Vann
v. Shilleh, supra, 54 Cal.App.3d 192.) An attorney, either with client's
consent or court's approval, may withdraw from a case when withdrawal can be
accomplished without undue prejudice to client's interests; however, an
attorney “shall not withdraw from employment until the member has taken
reasonable steps to avoid reasonably foreseeable prejudice to the rights of the
client, including giving due notice to the client, allowing time for employment
of other counsel, complying with rule 3-700(D), and complying with applicable
laws and rules.” (CRPC 3.700(A)(2).) A lawyer violates his or her ethical
mandate by abandoning a client (Pineda v. State Bar (1989) 49 Cal.3d
753, 758 759), or by withdrawing at a critical point and thereby prejudicing
the client’s case. (CRPC 3.700(A)(2); Vann v. Shilleh, supra.)
 
 
DISCUSSION
 
            Counsel has filed forms MC-051 and
MC-052 and has lodged with the Court a copy of the proposed order on form
MC-053 as required.  (Cal Rules of Court,
rule 3.1362.)  Counsel states the instant
motion is filed for the following reason: “The client, Steve Self (Sole
Principal of Defendant Jonell Oil Corp), by his conduct has made it
unreasonably difficult for me to carry out the representation effectively.  Mr. Self has ceased communicating with me.  I received one email 5 weeks ago, the only
communication with him since early July, 2024. 
Despite numerous attempts to contact him about this case, and despite
promises from his administrative assistant that he would respond (his assistant
has responded to some emails promising Mr. Self would call), he has not;  Mr. Self has failed to heed my advice; and
they are in breach of material terms of our agreement; all leading to a
breakdown of the attorney-client relationship. 
The clients are in breach of material terms of the agreement with me,
relating to the representation, and I have given Mr. Self a reasonable warning
after the breach that I will withdraw unless they fulfill the agreement.” (MC-052.) 
 
            The Court notes that the final
status conference is set for November 12, 2024, and trial is set for November
25, 2024. No motion to continue trial has been filed in this case. Given the
proximity to the trial date, the Court finds that relieving counsel will likely
prejudice Defendants’ rights. Counsel does not set forth facts
showing that he has taken reasonable steps to avoid reasonably foreseeable
prejudice to the rights of Defendants. (See CRPC 1.16(d).) 
 
            Additionally, Counsel only shows
service of the moving papers on Defendants via electronic service; however,
there is no proof that Defendants consented to electronic service. (See Code Civ.
Proc. § 1010.6(c).)  Moreover, the proposed order states that
Defendants received notice by mail. Also, it does not appear that all parties
that have appeared in this action have received notice. (See Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1362(d).)
 
            Lastly, information on all future proceedings has not
been provided and the proposed order is incomplete. 
 
Accordingly, the Court DENIES the motion to relieve
counsel.  
 
Counsel shall provide notice of the Court’s ruling and file
proofs of service of such. 
 
 
 
 
 