  Case Number:  19STCV29995    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court. 

 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  8, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


19STCV29995




MOTIONS:  


(1)
  Compel Responses to Special Interrogatories
(2)
  Deem Request for Admissions Admitted




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant/Cross-Complainant
  Matthew Cawley




OPPOSING PARTY:


Defendant
  Jonathan Almache



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
These
personal injury actions arise from a September 2, 2017, motor vehicle incident
which occurred on southbound Vermont Avenue near Sixth Street in Los Angeles,
California. 
 
Defendant/Cross-Complainant
Cawley served Defendant Jonathan Alexander Almache with Form Interrogatories,
Set Two on July 15, 2024. 
 
On
August 23, 2024, Everest National Insurance Company filed a Motion for Leave to
Intervene on behalf of Defendant Jonathan Alexander Almache. 
 
On
October 1, 2024, the court granted Everest National Insurance Company’s Motion
for Leave to Intervene. 
 
 Defendant/Cross-Complainant Cawley now moves for a court order compelling responses to
Defendant Cawley’s Special Interrogatories, Set Two. Defendant Almache
opposes.  
 
JUDICIAL
NOTICE 
 
Defendant’s
counsel requests that the Court take judicial notice of the following documents
pursuant to California Evidence Code section 452(d):
 
1.
Everest National Insurance Company’s Motion to Intervene. A true and correct
copy is attached hereto as Exhibit “1”; 
 
2.
Cawley’s Opposition to Everest National Insurance Company’s Motion to
Intervene, A true and correct copy is attached hereto as Exhibit “2”; 
 
3.
Reply of Everest National Insurance Company in Support of Motion to Intervene.
A true and correct copy is attached hereto as Exhibit “3”; 
 
4.
Tentative Ruling issued by the Court re Motion to Compel on or about October 1,
2024. A true and correct copy is attached hereto as Exhibit “4”; 
 
5.
Email from Cawley’s counsel agreeing to submit on the tentative dated October
1, 2024. A true and correct copy is attached hereto as Exhibit “5”; 
 
6.
Email from Pham, Uy, Zhu counsel agreeing to submit on the tentative October 1,
2024. A true and correct copy is attached hereto as Exhibit “6”; 
 
7.
Email from Phan counsel agreeing to submit on the tentative October 1, 2024. A
true and correct copy is attached hereto as Exhibit “7”; 
 
8.
Email from Lyft, Inc. counsel agreeing to submit on the tentative October 1,
2024. A true and correct copy is attached hereto as Exhibit “8”; 
 
9.
Notice of Ruling regarding October 1, 2024, hearing re Motion to Intervene. A
true and correct copy is attached hereto as Exhibit “9; 
 
10.
Motion to Deem Facts Admitted Against Cross-Defendant Jonathan Almache and
Request for Sanction of $935.00. A true and correct copy is attached hereto as
Exhibit “10”
 
The
Court takes judicial notice of the documents 1-3, and 9-10 pursuant to California
Evidence Code section 452(d). However, the Court does not take notice of
documents 4-8 because they are not court records. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD
 
Interrogatories
 
If a party to whom interrogatories are directed fails to serve a
timely response, the propounding party may move for an order compelling
responses. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2030.290 (b).) Failure to timely respond waives
all objections, including privilege and work product, unless “[t]he party has
subsequently served a response that is in substantial compliance” and “[t]he
party’s failure to serve a timely response was the result of mistake,
inadvertence, or excusable neglect.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290 (a)(1),
(a)(2).) The statute contains no time limit for a motion to compel where no
responses have been served and no meet and confer is required when a party does
not respond to discovery requests. All that need be shown in the moving papers
is that a set of interrogatories was properly served on the opposing party,
that the time to respond has expired, and that no response of any kind has been
served. (Leach v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 902, 905-906.) 
 
If a motion to compel responses is filed, the Court shall impose a
monetary sanction against the losing party “unless it finds that the one
subject to the sanction acted with substantial justification or that other
circumstances make the imposition of the sanction unjust.” (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290 (c).) Further, “[t]he court may award sanctions under the Discovery
Act in favor of a party who files a motion to compel discovery, even though no
opposition to the motion was filed, or opposition to the motion was withdrawn,
or the requested discovery was provided to the moving party after the motion
was filed.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1348(a).)
 
Admissions
Deemed Admitted 
 
Where there has
been no timely response to a request for admission under Code of Civil
Procedure section 2033.010, the propounding party may move for an order that
the genuineness of any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the
requests be deemed admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction.¿ (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)¿ The party who failed to respond waives any
objections to the demand, unless the court grants that party relief from the
waiver, upon a showing that the party (1) has subsequently served a
substantially compliant response, and (2) that the party’s failure to respond
was the result of mistake, inadvertence, or excusable neglect.¿ (Code of Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subds. (a)(1)-(2).)¿ The court “shall” grant a motion to
deem admitted requests for admissions, “unless it finds that the party to whom
the requests for admission have been directed has served, before the hearing on
the motion, a proposed response to the requests for admission that is in
substantial compliance with Section 2033.220.”¿ (Code of Civ. Proc., §
2033.280, subd. (c).)¿¿ 
¿ 
Where a party
fails to provide a timely response to requests for admission, “[i]t is
mandatory that the court impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing
with Section 2023.010) on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to
serve a timely response to requests for admission necessitated this motion.”¿
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)¿ 
 
DISCUSSION
 
Form
Interrogatories, Set Two
 
Here, Defendant Cawley served Defendant Jonathan Alexander Almache
with Form Interrogatories, Set Two on July 15, 2024. (Craver Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.)
Responses were due August 14, 2024. On August 20, 2024, counsel for Defendant
Cawley sent a meet and confer letter requesting that verified responses,
without objection, be served within seven (7) days. (Id. ¶ 4.) To date, Defendant
Almache has failed to provide verified responses to Defendant Cawley’s properly
served Form Interrogatories, Set Two. (Id. ¶ 6.) 
 
In opposition, Defendant Almache’s counsel argues that granting the
requested relief is not necessary nor reasonable in light of the concurrent
Motion to Deem Facts 1-11 admitted because essentially, the factual basis
underlying the responses to Form Interrogatories, Set Two (17.1) will be moot
after the granting of the Requests for Admissions. (Opp. at p. 5.) Defendant
also argues that performance within 7 days is impossible because counsel has
been unable to locate Defendant. (Opp. at pp. 4-5.) Moreover, even if Defendant
Jonathan Almache answered the discovery, his responses would not be beneficial
as he has memory loss and was intoxicated at the time of the accident. (Meyer-Morris
Decl. ¶ 12.) 
 
Nevertheless, since no responses have been served for the proper
discovery sets the Court GRANTS Plaintiff’s motion.  
 
Request
for Admissions 
 
Here, Defendant Cawley served Defendant Jonathan Alexander Almache
with Requests for Admission, Set One on July 15, 2024. (Craver Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.)
Responses were due August 14, 2024. On August 20, 2024, counsel for Defendant
Cawley sent a meet and confer letter requesting that verified responses,
without objection, be served within seven (7) days. (Id. ¶ 4.) To date,
Defendant Almache has failed to provide verified responses to Defendant
Cawley’s properly served Requests for Admission, Set One. (Id. ¶ 6.) 
 
In opposition, Defendant concedes that an order granting Requests for
Admission, Set One Nos. 1-11 is appropriate. (Opp. at p.5.) 
 
Accordingly, the Court deems the Request for Admissions, Set One Nos.
1-11 admitted. 
 
Defendant
Cawley also requests $935.00 in monetary sanctions for each motion, against Defendant
Jonathan Alexander Almache and his counsel ($1870.00 total). This represents Defendant
Cawley’s Counsel’s hourly rate of $500.00 and the $60.00 filing fees for each
motion. (Craver Decl. ¶¶ 12-13.) In opposition, Defendant Almache’s counsel
argues that sanctions are inappropriate against counsel because Defendant
Cawley failed to provide any evidence showing that counsel advised Defendant
Almache to engage in any misuse of the discovery process. (Opp. at p. 6.) Moreover, sanctions
against Defendant Jonathan Almache are not warranted because he would be unable
to pay them and thus would solely be punitive. (Opp. at p. 5.) 
 
Nevertheless,
the Court finds sanctions are warranted in a reduced amount against only Defendant Almache. The amount
requested is excessive because the motions are nearly identical and not complex.
Therefore, the Court awards sanctions in total amount of $620.00 which includes
1 hour of attorney time to file and prepare the motions, plus the $60 filing
fees. 
             
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, Defendant Cawley’s Motion to Compel Form Interrogatories,
Set Two is GRANTED. Defendant Almache shall provide verified responses, without
objections, within 20 days. The Court also deems Admitted Requests for
Admissions, Set One Nos. 1-11. 
 
The Court further GRANTS IN PART Plaintiff’s request for monetary
sanctions against only Defendant Almache, in the reduced amount of $620.00 total.
Said monetary sanctions are to be paid to Defendant Cawley’s counsel within 30
days of the date of this order.
 
Defendant Cawley shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof of service
of such. 