 Case Number:  23STCV06490    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  8, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


23STCV06490




MOTIONS:  


Motion
  to Compel Plaintiff’s Compliance with Independent Medical Examination




MOVING PARTY:


Defendant Union 51 Venture LLC 




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
BACKGROUND
 
             Defendant Union 51 Venture LLC (Defendant)
moves to compel Plaintiff Maria Isabel Mendoza Gonzalez’s (“Plaintiff”)
appearance at a physical examination. No opposition has been filed. 
 
LEGAL
STANDARD 
 
“In any case in which a plaintiff is seeking recovery for
personal injuries, any defendant may demand one physical examination of the
plaintiff, if both of the following conditions are satisfied: (1) The
examination does not include any diagnostic test or procedure that is painful, protracted,
or intrusive. (2) The examination is conducted at a location within 75 miles of
the residence of the examinee.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2032.220, subd. (a).)¿¿ 
 
Code of Civil Procedure section
2032.250 provides that, when a plaintiff fails to respond to a demand, or
refuses to submit to the physical examination, the defendant may move for an
order compelling a response to the demand and compelling compliance with the
request for an exam. The motion must be accompanied by a meet and confer
declaration.
 
The court shall impose a monetary
sanction against any party, person, or attorney who unsuccessfully makes or
opposes a motion to compel compliance with a demand for a physical examination,
unless it finds that the one subject to the sanction acted with substantial
justification or that other circumstances make the imposition of the sanction
unjust. (Code Civ. Proc. § 2032.250 (b).)
 
MEET
AND CONFER
 
According to the declaration of Nancy Matthews Garber, after Plaintiff
cancelled the first examination, Defendant informed Plaintiff of Dr. Alluri’s
next available dates, but heard no response. (Garber Decl. ¶ 8-9.) While there
is no clear meet and confer effort described following the second
non-appearance, the record also does not show that Plaintiff attempted to
cooperate with Defendant in scheduling this examination. 
 
DISCUSSION
 
This case arises out of a slip and fall in an apartment complex.
Plaintiff claims injuries to her head, neck, right arm, low back, right leg,
right knee and right ankle. On July 15, 2024, Defendant noticed Plaintiff’s
physical examination for August 20, 2024 with Dr. Ram Kiran Alluri, M.D.
(Garber Decl. ¶ 3, Exh. A.) The notice stated that Defendant must be notified
two business days in advance of the scheduled appointment about any
cancellation or else a charge would be imposed. On August 19, 2024, Plaintiff
informed Defendant that he would not appear. (Id. ¶ 4.) Defendant
incurred the late cancellation fee. The demand was re-noticed for September 17,
2024, and Plaintiff again did not appear. (Id. ¶ 11, Exh. E.) Another
cancellation fee was incurred. 
 
Therefore, because Plaintiff has failed to appear for an independent
physical examination, the motion to compel is granted. 
 
Defendant seeks $2,420 in monetary sanctions against Plaintiff and her
counsel, representing the two $780 cancellation fees, a $200 hourly rate, and
the $60 filing fee. The Court finds sanctions are warranted, but the amount is
excessive given the nature of the motion, lack of opposition, and fact
Defendant can appear remotely at the hearing. Therefore, the Court awards
monetary sanctions in the reduced amount of $1,920 (1.5 hours of attorney time,
the cancellation fees, and filing fee). 
 
CONCLUSION
AND ORDER
 
Accordingly, the motion
to Compel Plaintiff’s Compliance with Independent Medical Examination is
GRANTED.  
 
The Court orders Plaintiff Isabel Mendoza Gonzalez to appear for a
physical examination with Dr. Ram Kiran Alluri on December 3, 2024 at 3:30 p.m.

 
Plaintiff and her counsel of record, jointly and severally, are
ordered to pay $1,920 in monetary sanctions to counsel for Defendant within 30
days. 
 
Defendant shall provide notice of the Court’s order and file a proof
of service of such. 