 Case Number:  22STCV25489    Hearing Date:   November 8, 2024    Dept:  32 PLEASE NOTE:   Parties are
encouraged to meet and confer concerning this tentative ruling to determine if
a resolution may be reached.  If the
parties are unable to reach a resolution and a party intends to submit on this
tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the Court at sscdept32@lacourt.org indicating that party’s intention to submit.  The email shall include the case number, date
and time of the hearing, counsel’s contact information (if applicable), and the
identity of the party submitting on this tentative ruling.  If the Court does not receive an email
indicating the parties are submitting on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may place the motion off calendar or
adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  If all parties do not submit on this
tentative ruling, they should arrange to appear in-person or remotely.  Further, after the
Court has posted/issued a tentative ruling, the Court has the inherent
authority to prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion and adopt the
tentative ruling as the order of the Court.  
 
TENTATIVE
RULING
 



DEPT:


32




HEARING DATE:


November
  8, 2024




CASE NUMBER:


22STCV25489




MOTIONS:  


Petition
  for Minors Compromise 




MOVING PARTY:


Petitioner Margarita Flores




OPPOSING PARTY:


Unopposed
  



 
 
The Court has reviewed the
petition filed on October 7, 2024 by Petitioner Margarita Flores (Petitioner)
on behalf of Claimant Jazmine Moran-Flores, age 15. The Court denies the petition without prejudice for the
following reasons: 
 
Petitioner
must complete item 10c describing the terms of the settlement.
 
Petitioner marked item 12b(1) stating that she paid all
of Claimant’s medical expenses and is seeking reimbursement to herself.
However, this contradicts item 12b(5) which shows the medical expenses will be
paid directly to the medical lienholders from the settlement proceeds. Furthermore,
Petitioner marked item 14a stating that petitioner has paid none of the
expenses. If this is true, then Petitioner should not mark 12b(1), but leave
12b(5) as is.  
 
In the Proposed Order (MC-351), item 9a must be completed
with the information in attachment 18b2. In MC-355, Claimant’s name must be
written in item 2. Item 4 must be completed. 
 
 
Accordingly, the Court denies the petition without
prejudice.
 
Petitioner shall give notice and file a
proof of service of such.
 