  Case Number:  23STCV12816    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ DIVINA VILLEDA, et al., Plaintiff(s), vs. VILMA HOOD, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 23STCV12816 Hearing Date: November 12, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER GRANTING MOTION TO COMPEL NON-PARTY COMPLIANCE WITH DEPOSITION SUBPOENA FOR BUSINESS RECORDS  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiffs Divina Villeda (“Villeda”) and Consuelo “Lucy” Gamboa (collectively “Plaintiffs”) filed a First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against defendants Vilma Hood, et al., setting forth fourteen causes of action for (1) wrong termination – retaliation for protesting elder abuse, (2) wrongful termination – retaliation for protesting failure to pay overtime wages, (3) violation of Labor Code §1102.5, (4) false imprisonment, (5) intentional interference with prospective economic relations, (6) negligent interference with prospective economic relations, (7) post-termination retaliation in violation of Labor Code §1102.5, (8) intentional infliction of emotional distress, (9) failure to pay overtime wages, (10) failure to pay minimum wage, (11) failure to provide meal periods, (12) failure to provide rest periods, (13) violation of Labor Code §226, and (14) violation of labor code §552. On October 11, 2024, defendant Vilma Hood (“Hood”) filed the instant motion seeking to compel non-party the Los Angeles County Aging and Disabilities Department/Adult Protective Services (“APS”) to comply with Hood’s deposition subpoena for production of business records. Any opposition was due on or before October 30, 2024; none has been filed to date.  II. PROCEDURAL STANDARD Timeliness Any motion to compel further production regarding a deposition notice or subpoena shall be made no later than 60 days after the completion of the record of the deposition. (CCP §2025.480(b).) The deposition subpoena was issued on September 12, 2024, and with a production date of October 7, 2024. (Kutzner Decl. ¶ 2; Ex. A.) The motion was filed within 60 days of the production date and is therefore timely. Meet and Confer A motion to compel shall be accompanied by a meet and confer declaration under Section 2016.040. (CCP §2025.480(b).) On September 30, 2024, APS objected to the deposition subpoena on the grounds of confidentiality, and that the records would not be disclosed without a Court order. (Kutzner Decl. ¶ 3; Exh. B.) On October 7, 2024, Hood’s counsel and counsel for APS conferred to confirm that a Court order was necessary for the release of records. (Id. at ¶ 6; Ex. D.) The Court finds that the meet and confer requirement has been met. Separate Statement A separate statement is required pursuant to the Rules of Court unless no response has been received to the request for discovery. (Cal. Rules of Court 3.1345(a)-(b).) Because APS served objections, Hood has filed a separate statement in compliance with CRC, Rule 3.1345. This requirement has been met. Service on Non-Party A “written notice and all moving papers supporting a motion to compel an answer to a deposition question or to compel production of a document or tangible thing from a nonparty deponent must be personally served on the nonparty deponent unless the nonparty deponent agrees to accept service by mail¿or electronic service¿at an address¿or electronic service address¿specified on the deposition record.”¿(Cal. Rules of Court, Rule 3.1346.) APS’ counsel also confirmed that she would accept service of the motion to compel by email. (Kutzner Decl. ¶ 6; Ex. D.) The motion was served on all parties and APS’ counsel by email on October 11, 2024. The service requirement has been met.  III. DISCUSSION A party seeking discovery from a person who is not a party to the action may obtain discovery by oral deposition, written deposition, or deposition subpoena for production of business records.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.010.)¿ A deposition subpoena may command: (1) only the attendance and testimony of the deponent, (2) only the production of business records for copying, or (3) the attendance and testimony of the deponent, as well as the production of business records, other documents, electronically stored information, and tangible things.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.020.) A service of a deposition subpoena shall be effected a sufficient time in advance of the deposition to provide the deponent a reasonable opportunity to locate and produce any designated documents and, where personal attendance is commanded, a reasonable time to travel to the place of deposition. (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (a).)¿ Personal service of any deposition subpoena is effective to require a deponent who is a resident of California to: personally appear and testify, if the subpoena so specifies; to produce any specified documents; and to appear at a court session if the subpoena so specifies.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 2020.220, subd. (c).) Hood avers that this action arises out of Plaintiffs’ prior work providing home healthcare services to Jan Tarble (“Ms. Tarble”), who died on May 1, 2024. Hood is Ms. Tarble’s widow. The FAC alleges Hood subjected her late wife, Ms. Tarble, to physical, emotional, and financial elder abuse, and that Plaintiffs were terminated by Hood in retaliation for protesting and/or reporting elder abuse. The FAC further alleges Plaintiff Villeda made reports to APS in April and September 2022 regarding the alleged elder abuse, and that APS interviewed Ms. Tarble in August and September 2022.  Hood contends that the subpoena to APS includes records pertaining to APS’ investigation of Ms. Tarble and Hood, as well as APS’ communications with Plaintiffs, and that it is directly relevant to Plaintiffs’ claims. Hood asserts that the records are necessary to substantiate the truth of Plaintiff Villeda’s alleged communications to APS and the substance of Ms. Tarble’s interviews with APS for Hood to defend herself against Plaintiffs’ claims. Hood also argues that confidentiality has been waived by the FAC disclosing that reports were made to APS, and aside from APS objecting on the grounds of confidentiality, no other parties objected to the subpoena which have been reasonably tailored to the discovery of admissible evidence. The Court has reviewed the FAC and the deposition subpoena. The Court finds that the information sought is sufficiently limited in scope and is related to the issues. Further, a failure to oppose a motion may be deemed a consent to the granting of the motion. (CRC, Rule 8.54(c).) There being no opposition by APS disputing the above, the motion will be granted.  IV. CONCLUSION Hood’s motion to compel compliance with deposition subpoena for production of business records is GRANTED. APS is ordered to produce documents responsive to Hood’s subpoena within thirty (30) days of notice of this Order.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: November 8, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 