 Case Number:  24STCV11365    Hearing Date:   November 12, 2024    Dept:  78  Superior Court of California County of Los Angeles Department 78 ¿ KI CHOON KIM, Plaintiff(s), vs. RUNNIE MONTURIOL, et al., Defendant(s). Case No.: 24STCV11365 Hearing Date: November 12, 2024   [TENTATIVE] ORDER (1) SUSTAINING IN PART DEMURRER AND (2) DENYING MOTION TO STRIKE  I. BACKGROUND Plaintiff Ki Choon Kim (“Plaintiff”) filed a verified complaint against defendants Runnie Monturiol (“Monturiol”) and Does 1 to 50. The complaint alleges that on September 15, 2023, Plaintiff went to Monturiol’s residence to serve an official housing department notice. (Compl. ¶ 6.) Without provocation, Monturiol followed Plaintiff to his car, grabbed Plaintiff, and punched Plaintiff on the face with a closed fist. (Compl. ¶ 7.) The complaint sets forth seven causes of action for (1) battery – against Monturiol and Does 1 to 10, (2) assault– against Monturiol and Does 1 to 10, (3), false imprisonment – against Monturiol and Does 1 to 10, (4) intentional infliction of emotional distress (“IIED”) – against Monturiol and Does 1 to 10, (5) vicarious liability – against Does 11 through 40, and (6) negligent supervision – against Does 11 through 40. Monturiol, who is in in pro per, filed a demurrer against all six causes of action, while also seeking to strike certain words in the complaint, all causes of actions, and the prayer for punitive damages. Plaintiff opposes the motions.  Any reply was due on or before November 5; 2024; none has been received.  II. REQUEST FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE Monturiol requests the Court to take judicial notice of Plaintiff’s Complaint. The request is denied, because it is not necessary for the Court to take judicial notice of matters on its own docket.  III. DEMURRER Legal Standard A demurrer for sufficiency tests whether the complaint states a cause of action. (Hahn v. Mirda (2007) 147 Cal.App.4th 740, 747.) When considering demurrers, courts read the allegations liberally and in context. In a demurrer proceeding, the defects must be apparent on the face of the pleading or via proper judicial notice. (Donabedian v. Mercury Ins. Co. (2004) 116 Cal.App.4th 968, 994.)¿¿¿ “A demurrer tests the pleadings alone and not the evidence or other extrinsic matters. Therefore, it lies only where the defects appear on the face of the pleading or are judicially noticed. (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 430.30, 430.70.) At the pleading stage, a plaintiff need only allege ultimate facts sufficient to apprise the defendant of the factual basis for the claim against him. (Semole v. Sansoucie (1972) 28 Cal. App. 3d 714, 721.) A “demurrer does not, however, admit contentions, deductions or conclusions of fact or law alleged in the pleading, or the construction of instruments pleaded, or facts impossible in law.” (S. Shore Land Co. v. Petersen (1964) 226 Cal.App.2d 725, 732 (internal citations omitted).) Discussion Monturiol argues that each cause of action fails to state sufficient facts to constitute a cause of action and that the allegations are contradictory. Preliminary, the Court notes a couple of issues with the moving brief. First, the only relevant causes of action against Monturiol are the first four causes of action for battery, assault, false imprisonment, and IIED. The Court will not consider any arguments related to causes of action not asserted against Monturiol.  Second, Monturiol introduces his account of the factual details of the incident and asserts defenses to contest the allegations. These are extrinsic facts that may not be considered on a demurrer. The function of a demurrer is to test the legal sufficiency of a complaint, not the truthfulness of the allegations, and the facts as pled are assumed to be true. (Donabedian, supra, 116 Cal.App.4th at 994.) The Court will not consider any of Monturiol’s extrinsic evidence at the pleading stage, as it is beyond the scope of a demurrer. (Gould v. Maryland Sound Industries, Inc. (1995) 31 Cal.App.4th 1137, 1144 [“‘[D]efendants cannot set forth allegations of fact in their demurrers which, if true, would defeat plaintiff's complaint.’”].) 1. First and Second C/A – Battery & Assault “The essential elements of a cause of action for battery are: (1) defendant touched plaintiff, or caused plaintiff to be touched, with the intent to harm or offend plaintiff; (2) plaintiff did not consent to the touching; (3) plaintiff was harmed or offended by defendant's conduct; and (4) a reasonable person in plaintiff's position would have been offended by the touching.” (So v. Shin (2013) 212 Cal. App. 4th 652, 669.) “The essential elements of a cause of action for assault are: (1) defendant acted with intent to cause harmful or offensive contact, or threatened to touch plaintiff in a harmful or offensive manner; (2) plaintiff reasonably believed she was about to be touched in a harmful or offensive manner or it reasonably appeared to plaintiff that defendant was about to carry out the threat; (3) plaintiff did not consent to defendant's conduct; (4) plaintiff was harmed; and (5) defendant's conduct was a substantial factor in causing plaintiff's harm.” (So, supra, Cal. App. 4th at 668–69.) “The tort of assault is complete when the anticipation of harm occurs.” (Kiseskey v. Carpenters’ Trust for So. Cal. (1983) 144 Cal.App.3d 222, 232.) The complaint alleges that on September 15, 2023, Monturiol followed Plaintiff to his car and punched Plaintiff on the face with a closed first, causing bruises to Plaintiff’s face and an excoriation to Plaintiff’s forehead. (Compl. ¶¶6-7.) Plaintiff did not consent to Monturiol’s touch. (Compl. ¶ 13.) The Court finds that Plaintiff has sufficiently enough facts to support the essential elements of these causes of action. The demurrer to the first and second cause of action is therefore overruled. 2. Third C/A – False Imprisonment The elements are (1) nonconsensual, intentional confinement of a person, (2) without lawful privilege, (3) for an appreciable period of time, however brief. (Easton v. Sutter Coast Hosp. (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 485, 496; Lyons v. Fire Ins. Exch. (2008) 161 Cal.App.4th 880, 888; Easton v. Sutter Coast Hosp. (2000) 80 Cal.App.4th 485, 496.) “Restraint can be effectuated by means of physical force, threat of force or of arrest, confinement by physical barriers, or by means of any other form of unreasonable duress.” (Aldrich v. Nat'l Collegiate Athletic Ass'n (2020) 484 F. Supp. 3d 779, 801.)  The complaint alleges Monturiol “grabbed his shirts and as Plaintiff was struggling to escape, punched Plaintiff on the face”. (Compl. ¶ 7.) Monturiol compelled Plaintiff to stand in front of Monturiol for two to three seconds (Compl. ¶ 30.) Here, Plaintiff pleading that Monturiol grabbed Plaintiff by the shirts such that Plaintiff could not escape for a brief two to three seconds is not an appreciable length of time. (See Alterauge v. Los Angeles Turf Club (1950) 97 Cal.App.2d 735, 736 [length of time can be as brief as 15 minutes].) Plaintiff provides no authority that “an appreciable period of time” contemplates a mere two to three seconds of physical restraint. Additionally, the brief grabbing of Monturiol’s person, immediately followed by the punch, is an aspect of the offensive contact already pled as part of the assault and battery causes of action. To hold otherwise would expand the concept of false imprisonment and make every case involving brief grabbing or grappling or pulling a false imprisonment case.  The demurrer to the third cause of action is sustained. 3. Fourth C/A – IIED The elements of a cause of action for intentional infliction of emotional distress are (1) outrageous conduct by the defendant, (2) intention to cause or reckless disregard of the probability of causing emotional distress, (3) severe emotional suffering, and (4) actual and proximate causation of the emotional distress. Conduct is extreme and outrageous when it exceeds all bounds of decency usually tolerated by a decent society, and is of a nature which is especially calculated to cause, and does cause, mental distress. Liability does not extend to mere insults, indignities, threats, annoyances, petty oppressions, or other trivialities. (Fisher v. San Pedro Peninsula Hospital (1989) 214 Cal.App.3d 590.) A defendant’s conduct is “outrageous” when it is so extreme as to exceed all bounds of that usually tolerated in a civilized community, and the defendant must either intend his or her conduct to inflict injury or engaged in it with the realization that injury will result.¿ (Hughes v. Pair (2009) 46 Cal.4th 1035, 1050-1051 [citations and quotations omitted].) Here, the allegation that Monturiol, a professional fighter, had followed Plaintiff to his car, grabbed Plaintiff, and punched Plaintiff in the face qualifies as outrageous conduct, since such an act is intended to inflict injury upon another person. Further, Plaintiff has sufficiently alleged the emotional suffering resulting from the battery, such as nightmares, difficulty sleeping, and anxiety. (Compl. ¶¶ 8-9, 37.) The demurrer to the fourth cause of action is overruled.  V. MOTION TO STRIKE A. Legal Standard The court may, upon a motion, or at any time in its discretion, and upon terms it deems proper, strike any irrelevant, false, or improper matter inserted in any pleading. (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (a); Stafford v. Shultz (1954) 42 Cal.2d 767, 782 [“Matter in a pleading which is not essential to the claim is surplusage; probative facts are surplusage and may be stricken out or disregarded”].) The court may also strike all or any part of any pleading not drawn or filed in conformity with California law, a court rule, or an order of the court.¿ (Code Civ. Proc., § 436, subd. (b).) The grounds for moving to strike must appear on the face of the pleading or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.) B. Discussion Monturiol’s moves to strike certain words from the causes of action, the causes of action, and the prayer for punitive damages. As stated previously, Monturiol’s use of extrinsic facts to supplement or to contravene the allegations may not be considered since the grounds for a motion to strike must appear on the face of the pleading itself or by way of judicial notice. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437.) Punitive damages may be imposed where it is proven by clear and convincing evidence that the defendant has been guilty of oppression, fraud, or malice. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (a).) “‘Punitive damages are proper only when the tortious conduct rises to levels of extreme indifference to the plaintiff’s rights, a level which decent citizens should not have to tolerate.’¿ [Citation.]” (Lackner v. North (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 1188, 1210.) Here, the allegation that Monturiol followed Plaintiff to his car, grabbed him, and punched him in the face is sufficient to state a prima facie claim for punitive damages based on malice. “Malice” is conduct intended by the defendant to cause injury to the plaintiff or despicable conduct which is carried on with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others. (Civ. Code, § 3294, subd. (c)(1).) “As amended to include [despicable], the [Civil Code section 3294] plainly indicates that absent an intent to injure the plaintiff, ‘malice’ requires more than a ‘willful and conscious’ disregard of the plaintiffs’ interests. The additional component of ‘despicable conduct’ must be found.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal.4th 704, 725.) (Emphasis added.) The statute’s reference to despicable conduct represents a “new substantive limitation on punitive damage awards.” (Ibid.)¿Despicable conduct is “conduct which is so vile, base, contemptible, miserable, wretched or loathsome that it would be looked down upon and despised by ordinary decent people.¿ Such conduct has been described as ‘having the character of outrage frequently associated with crime.’” (Tomaselli v. Transamerica Ins. Co. (1994) 25 Cal.App.4th 1269, 1287.) The allegation that Monturiol battered Plaintiff is a type of intentional conduct frequently associated with crime and is behavior that would be looked down upon by ordinary people to qualify as despicable conduct. The motion to strike is therefore denied.  VI. CONCLUSION Monturiol’s demurrer is SUSTAINED IN PART as to the third cause of action only without leave to amend; the remainder is overruled. Monturiol’s motion to strike is DENIED.  Moving Party is ordered to give notice.  DATED: November 8, 2024 __________________________ Hon. Michelle C. Kim Judge of the Superior Court  PLEASE TAKE NOTICE: • Parties are encouraged to meet and confer after reading this tentative ruling to see if they can reach an agreement. • If a party intends to submit on this tentative ruling, the party must send an email to the court at SMCDEPT78@lacourt.org with the Subject line “SUBMIT” followed by the case number. The body of the email must include the hearing date and time, counsel’s contact information, and the identity of the party submitting. • Unless all parties submit by email to this tentative ruling, the parties should arrange to appear remotely (encouraged) or in person for oral argument. You should assume that others may appear at the hearing to argue. • If the parties neither submit nor appear at hearing, the Court may take the motion off calendar or adopt the tentative ruling as the order of the Court. After the Court has issued a tentative ruling, the Court may prohibit the withdrawal of the subject motion without leave. 