 Case Number:  21STCV38181    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



MATTHEW LUCIANO,  
Plaintiff(s), 
 
 
vs. 
 
 
 
ACADEMY LA, LLC, et al., 
 
Defendant(s), 
 


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV38181
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: 
MOTION
  TO BIFURCATE
VICARIOUS
  LIABILITY FOR ANY
TORTS
  BY PROTECT-US


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  18, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
On
October 15, 2021, plaintiff Matthew Luciano filed this action against
defendants Academy LA, LLC, Allen Davidoo, Live Nation Entertainment, Inc.,
6021 Hollywood Operating Company, LLC and Insomnia Holdings, LLC (collectively,
“Defendants”).  On January 31, 2022,
Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) asserting causes
of action for: (1) negligence, (2) negligent hiring, retention, and
supervision, (3) assault and battery, and (4) intentional infliction of
emotional distress.    
          On October
31, 2023, Defendants filed the instant motion (the “Motion”) to bifurcate
vicarious liability for any torts committed by Co-Defendant Protect-US
(“Co-Defendant”). The Motion is made on the grounds that Defendant Academy hired
Co-Defendant, whose employee allegedly assaulted Plaintiff. Further, there is
dispute as to the degree Defendant Academy controlled Co-Defendant. 
          On January 4,
2024, Plaintiff filed and served its opposition to the Motion. On January 10,
Defendants filed and served its reply brief. On January 11, 2024, Defendant
Mondragon Quality Protections filed and served its Joinder in Support of Motion
to Bifurcate Vicarious Liability. Trial in this action is currently scheduled
for May 14, 2024. 
II.      DISCUSSION 
          Code Civ.
Proc. § 128(a)(8) provides that the court has the power to amend and control
its process and orders so as to make them conform to law and justice. The
Court, in furtherance of convenience or to avoid prejudice, or when separate
trials would be conducive to expedition and economy, may order a separate trial
of any cause of action, including a cause of action asserted in a
cross-complaint, or of any separate issue or of any number of causes of action
or issues. (Code Civ. Proc. § 1048(b).) A court may sever the trial of a
complaint and a trial on a cross-complaint. (Omni Aviation Managers, Inc. v.
Municipal Court (1976) 60 Cal.App.3d 682, 684.) A trial court retains
authority “to postpone the trial of the indemnity question if it believes such
action is appropriate to avoid unduly complicating the plaintiff’s suit.” (American
Motorcycle Assn. v. Superior Court (1978) 20 Cal.3d 578, 584.)  
          Code Civ.
Proc. § 598 provides that “[t]he court may, when the convenience of witnesses,
the ends of justice, or the economy and efficiency of handling the litigation
would be promoted thereby . . . make an order . . . that the trial of any issue
or part thereof shall precede the trial of another issue or any part thereof in
the case.” 
In
cases assigned to the Personal Injury Hub, the case will be tried by a
different judge than the one assigned to rule on this motion. The Court finds
that because of the close relationship between bifurcation motions and trial
management, it is appropriate in this matter for the trial judge to determine
whether bifurcation is warranted. 
A
motion to bifurcate is not a motion in limine. (Cal. Rules of Court, rule
3.57(c).) Nonetheless, as it relates to management of the trial proceedings, a
motion to bifurcate has certain attributes that are similar to motions in
limine. And, in cases assigned to the Personal Injury Hub, the trial judge (not
the judge in the Personal Injury Hub) rules on all motions in limine. While
this bifurcation request is not a motion in limine, the logic of having the
trial judge determine it here is similar. The request for bifurcation here
appears to be one for which the trial judge should make a discretionary
determination based on that judge’s role in managing the trial proceedings.
The Court therefore DENIES the Motion
WITHOUT PREJUDICE. The issue of bifurcation should be raised with the trial
judge at the time the trial judge rules upon motions in limine. 
III.     CONCLUSION
The Motion is DENIED WITHOUT PREJUDICE.
 
Moving party is ordered to give notice
of this ruling. 
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
     Dated this 18th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 