  Case Number:  20STCV42443    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  27  
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



ABDELRAHMAN
  MUSTAFA ABDELRAHMAN,  
                   Plaintiff(s),
          vs.
 
PACIFIC
  TRAFFIC CONTROL, INC, et al.,
 
                   Defendant(s).


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


CASE NO.: 20STCV42443
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: PLAINTIFF’S MOTION FOR ORDER COMPELLING DEFENDANT PACIFIC TRAFFIC
  CONTROL, INC.’S RESPONSES TO DISCOVERY AND REQUEST FOR MONETARY SANCTIONS
 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  18, 2024



 
On November 5, 2020, Abdelrahman
Mustafa Abdelrahman (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Pacific Traffic
Control, Inc. (“Defendant”) and Francisco Javier Proa Naranjo for injuries
arising from a motor vehicle collision. 
On August 1, 2023, Plaintiff served Form Interrogatories, Set One on Defendant.  Having received no responses, Plaintiff
proceeded to file this motion. Plaintiff also requests monetary sanctions.
          Compel
Responses
Where a party fails to serve timely
responses to discovery requests, the court may make an order compelling
responses.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§
2030.290, 2031.300; Healthcare
Consulting, Inc. v. Pacific Healthcare Consultants (2007) 148 Cal.App.4th
390, 403.)   A party that fails to serve
timely responses waives any objections to the request, including ones based on
privilege or the protection of attorney work product.  (Code Civ. Proc., §§ 2030.290, subd. (a),
2031.300, subd. (a).)  Unlike a motion to
compel further responses, a motion to
compel responses is not subject to a 45-day time limit and the propounding
party has no meet and confer obligations. 
(Sinaiko Healthcare Consulting,
Inc., supra, 148 Cal.App.4th at
p. 404.)
Defendant has sent responses. (Foreman
Decl., ¶6, Exhs. 2-3.) Accordingly, the motion to compel responses is MOOT. 
Monetary Sanctions
Where the court grants a motion to
compel responses, sanctions shall be imposed against the party who
unsuccessfully makes or opposes a motion to compel, unless the party acted with
substantial justification or the sanction would otherwise be unjust.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 2030.290, subd. (c).) The
court may award sanctions under the Discovery Act in favor of a party who files
a motion to compel discovery, even where the requested discovery was provided
to the moving party after the motion was filed. (Cal. Rules of Court, Rule
3.1348(a).)
Plaintiff’s request for sanctions is DENIED.
Plaintiff is in pro per and has not paid counsel fees. Further, it appears that
Defendant was in contact with Plaintiff and sought an extension of time to
provide the responses. Plaintiff did not file this motion until after that
request was made. 
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
        Dated this 18th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S. Arian
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 