 Case Number:  21STCV34766    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF THE STATE OF
CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL
DISTRICT
 



MARK JABLONSKI,
                   Plaintiff,
          vs.
 
SATICOY PLAZA, LLC, et al.,
 
                   Defendants.


)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)


      CASE NO.: 21STCV34766
 
[TENTATIVE]
  ORDER RE: DEFENDANT RALPHS GROCERY COMPANY’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT, OR
  IN THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION


 
Dept.
  27
1:30
  p.m.
January
  18, 2024



 
I.           
INTRODUCTION
This is a premises liability action.  On September 21, 2021, Plaintiff Mark
Jablonski (“Plaintiff”) filed this action against Defendants Saticoy Plaza,
LLC, Ralphs Grocery Company (“Ralphs”), and Does 1 to 50, alleging causes of
action for general negligence and premises liability.
On November 3, 2023, Ralphs filed the
instant motion for summary judgment, or in the alternative, summary
adjudication.  On January 4, 2024,
Plaintiff opposed the motion.   On January
12, 2024, Ralphs replied. 
II.         
BACKGROUND
On February 2, 2020, Plaintiff drove
himself and his adult daughter, Sara Jablonski, to Ralph’s Grocery Store,
located at 17250 Saticoy Street, Lake Balboa, CA 91406, to purchase milk and
ice cream. (UMF Nos. 1-3.) They entered the store and made their purchases.
(UMF No. 3.) They then started back to the car with the groceries. (UMF No. 6.)
While walking back to his car, Plaintiff slipped and fell; he is “pretty sure”
he fell on the white arrow painted on the asphalt in the store’s parking lot.
(UMF Nos. 6, 7: Jablonski Depo at 35:5-9.) 
He has presented no specific evidence that he fell on anything else.  It had been raining prior to Plaintiff’s fall and
was drizzling when he returned to the car; the parking lot was wet. (UMF Nos. 5, 14.)  While he contends he saw others slip and
falls when he was on the ground after his fall, Plaintiff has no information of
anyone notifying Ralphs or anyone else at the property that there was a
dangerous condition at the area of the arrow. 
At the time of the loss, Nass, Inc.
Management, LLC managed the Saticoy parking lot. They employed both a parking
lot porter and a security company to maintain the lot. (UMF Nos. 20-22, 27-28).
The parking lot porter worked 8 hours a day from Monday through Saturday. (UMF
No. 20). As part of his duties on the Premises, the porter sweeps and blows the
lot every day. (UMF No. 22) The porter also collects trash, cleans spills and
debris, prunes bushes and trees, checks the lighting, and tends to any other
tasks to keep the lot in good condition. (UMF No. 21, 22) He performed his
regular maintenance duties on the date of the accident without incident and
without complaint of issues related to the parking lot. (UMF Nos. 23-25) In
addition, Post Alarm Systems and Patrol Services drives through the lot on an
hourly basis to monitor the lot 24 hours a day. (UMF No. 27, 28) Ralphs, Post
and the porter did not report any issues in the parking lot on the day of the
fall prior to the fall. (UMF nos. 36, 38.)  Nor did Ralphs have any notice of a dangerous
condition prior to the fall.  See
Murillo and Moradian Declarations.  
III.       
LEGAL
STANDARD
The
function of a motion for summary judgment or adjudication is to allow a
determination as to whether an opposing party cannot show evidentiary support
for a pleading or claim and to enable an order of summary dismissal without the
need for trial.  (Aguilar v. Atlantic
Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  Code of Civil Procedure section 437c(c)
“requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the evidence
submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’ and
uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no triable
issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to judgment
as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor
Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7 Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  “The function of the pleadings in a motion for
summary judgment is to delimit the scope of the issues; the function of the
affidavits or declarations is to disclose whether there is any triable issue of
fact within the issues delimited by the pleadings.”  (Juge v. County of Sacramento (1993) 12
Cal.App.4th 59, 67, citing FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231
Cal. App. 3d 367, 381-382.)
As to
each claim as framed by the complaint (see Hutton v. Fid. Nat’l Title Co.
(2013) 213 Cal App. 4th 486, 493), the defendant moving for summary
judgment must satisfy the initial burden of proof by presenting facts to negate
an essential element, or to establish a defense.  (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2); Scalf
v. D. B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1520.)  Courts “liberally construe the evidence in
support of the party opposing summary judgment and resolve doubts concerning
the evidence in favor of that party.”  (Dore
v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.)
Once
the defendant has met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff to show
that a triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to that cause of
action or a defense thereto.  To
establish a triable issue of material fact, the party opposing the motion must
produce substantial responsive evidence.  (Sangster v. Paetkau (1998) 68
Cal.App.4th 151, 166.)
IV.        
REQUEST
FOR JUDICIAL NOTICE
Ralphs
requests the Court to take judicial notice of the operative Complaint, which the
Court can do by taking judicial notice of its own records.  (Evid. Code § 452, subd. (d); Dwan v. Dixon
(1963) 216 Cal.App.2d 260, 265.)  However, the Court takes judicial notice of the
Complaint only as to “the existence, content and authenticity of public records
and other specified documents”; it does not take judicial notice of the truth
of the factual matters asserted in those documents. (Dominguez
v. Bonta (2022) 87 Cal. App. 5th 389, 400.)
V.          
EVIDENTIARY
OBJECTIONS
The Court OVERRULES all of Plaintiff’s
evidentiary objections.  
VI.        
PRELIMINARY
ISSUE
Plaintiff’s opposition is 19 pages long;
with exhibits, it is 1528 pages long.  It
contains no table of contents or table of authorities, as is required under
California Rules of Court, rule 3.1113, subdivision (f). (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1113, subd. (f).)   Further, though not required under the Rules,
it contains no bookmarks or reasonable means of navigating through the 1528
pages.  Plaintiff’s references to the
exhibits do not contain page numbers or any other means to make it easy for the
court to navigate through the 1528 pages to find the purported point that
Plaintiff would like the Court to consider.   Nonetheless, the Court exercises its
discretion to still consider Plaintiff’s opposition, but admonishes Plaintiff
to comply with the California Rules of Court going forward, as well as simple
courtesy toward a reviewing court, i.e., cite to specific page numbers within 1500+
pages of an exhibit.
VII.     
DISCUSSION
“A
store owner is not the insurer of its patrons' personal safety, but does have a
duty to exercise reasonable care to keep the premises reasonably safe for
patrons.  [Citation.]  This includes a duty to keep the floors safe
for patrons' use.  [Citation.]  To establish an owner's liability for
negligence, the plaintiff must prove duty, breach, causation, and damages.  [Citation.]”  (Peralta v. Vons Companies, Inc.
(2018) 24 Cal.App.5th 1030, 1035.)
          
          Ralphs’ Initial Burden
Ralphs
moves for summary judgment, or alternatively summary adjudication, on the grounds
that Plaintiff’s causes of action for Premises Liability and Negligence fail as
a matter of law.[1]
Ralphs contends that it owed no duty to Plaintiff because there was no
dangerous condition and, assuming for the sake of argument that a dangerous
condition existed, Ralphs did not have notice of that dangerous condition and
the condition was open and obvious. 
Further, it contends it did not cause Plaintiff’s injuries.
            Dangerous
Condition
          A dangerous condition for purposes of
premises liability is a condition on the property that creates an unreasonable
risk of harm. (See CACI 1003; Ortega v. Kmart Corp. (2001) 26 Cal.4th
1200, 1206.)
          Ralphs contends there is no evidence
of a dangerous condition because the arrow on the asphalt where Plaintiff
allegedly slipped and fell was appropriately slip resistant and because, with
the exception of the arrow itself and rainwater, Plaintiff is unable to
identify a slippery substance on that arrow. (UMF 9-11.) Ralphs further contends
that Plaintiff: (1) fails to provide any information regarding physical
deficiencies of the parking lot that might have caused him to slip, (2) cannot
identify any sort of substance on the ground where he allegedly slipped, and (3)
is not even sure where he slipped. (UMF 7-12.)
          The Court finds Ralphs has established
the absence of a triable issue of material fact as to whether the arrow itself
constituted a dangerous condition and further sufficiently established that no
other known “dangerous condition” existed at the location of the fall.[2]  Thus, on that issue, Ralphs has met its
initial burden.
Notice
Although the owner's
lack of knowledge is not a defense, ‘[t]o impose liability for injuries
suffered by an invitee due to [a] defective condition of the premises, the
owner or occupier ‘must have either actual or constructive knowledge of the
dangerous condition or have been able by the exercise of ordinary care to
discover the condition, which if known to him, he should realize as involving
an unreasonable risk to invitees on his premises....'’ [Citation.]
 
Courts have also held
that where the plaintiff relies on the failure to correct a dangerous condition
to prove the owner's negligence, the plaintiff has the burden of showing that
the owner had notice of the defect in sufficient time to correct it.
[Citation.]
 
(Ortega, supra, 26 Cal.4th at p. 1206.)
          Ralphs contends it is undisputed that
it did not know of any alleged dangerous condition until the incident had
already occurred.  More specifically,
Ralphs contends Plaintiff cannot provide evidence of any claims or complaints
regarding the arrow in the parking lot where Plaintiff fell and no notice of
anyone else slipping and falling before his own fall.  (UMF 16-17.)
          The Court finds Ralphs has established
the absence of a triable issue of material fact on these grounds.  Nothing in the evidence indicates that Ralphs
was given notice of people like Plaintiff slipping in the parking lot at the
time of the incident, nor does there appear to be evidence that this had been
happening before Plaintiff slipped and fell. 
(See UMF 16-17, 33-36.)  The
burden now shifts to Plaintiff to establish the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.
          Plaintiff’s Burden
          Dangerous Condition   
          Plaintiff presents
expert testimony to meet its burden that the painted arrow presented a
dangerous condition.  That expert made
measurements of the slip resistance of the painted arrow and determined it to
be insufficient.  On this basis, the
Court finds that a triable issue of fact exists.[3] 
          Notice
          The only evidence from Plaintiff of
any other falling incidents in the parking lot is testimony from Plaintiff that
he saw someone fall after he did. (See PAMF 6.) There is no evidence of prior
notice.
The
Court finds Plaintiff has not established the existence of a triable issue of
material fact.  Plaintiff’s contention
that he saw two other people slip in the parking lot while he was lying on the
ground necessarily occurred after Plaintiff himself slipped and fell.  (UMF 16-17.) 
At most, it is further evidence of the slippery conditions at the time
of the incident, but it does not show that Ralphs had notice of the condition when
Plaintiff slipped and fell or that Ralphs had enough time to correct the condition
before Plaintiff slipped and fell.  The
Court further notes that Plaintiff’s opposition does not otherwise address the
issue regarding Ralphs’ lack of notice, nor does Plaintiff proffer any
additional material facts regarding the issue of Ralphs’ lack of notice.
          Accordingly, the Court finds
Plaintiff’s claim for premises liability fails as a matter of law.
          General Negligence
          Premises liability is a type of
negligence.  (See Civ. Code § 1714, subd.
(a); Brooks v. Eugene Burger Management Corp. (1989) 215 Cal.App.3d
1611, 1619.)  Given the Court’s determination
that Plaintiff’s claim for premises liability fails as a matter of law due to
insufficient notice to Ralphs of the dangerous condition at the time of the
incident, the same determination applies here.  Accordingly, the Court finds Plaintiff’s claim
for general negligence also fails as a matter of law.
Based
on the foregoing, the Court GRANTS Ralphs’ motion for summary judgment.
VIII.   
CONCLUSION
The Court GRANTS Ralphs’ motion for
summary judgment.
Moving party to give notice.
Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating
intention to submit on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided
on the court website at www.lacourt.org. 
Please be advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to
appear at the hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the
hearing and argue the matter.  Unless you
receive a submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume
that others might appear at the hearing to argue.  If the Court does not receive emails from the
parties indicating submission on this tentative ruling and there are no
appearances at the hearing, the Court may, at its discretion, adopt the
tentative as the final order or place the motion off calendar.
Dated
this 18th day of January 2024
 




 


 




 


Hon.
  Lee S. Arian 
Judge of the Superior Court
 




 
          Open and Obvious
Whether a duty should
be imposed on a defendant depends on factors set forth in Rowland v. Christian (1968) 69 Cal.2d 108, 112–113, 70
Cal.Rptr. 97, 443 P.2d 561. The factors include foreseeability of harm plus the
burden on the defendant and the consequences to the community of imposing a
duty. Foreseeability is a question of law, and it is “typically absent when a
dangerous condition is open and obvious. [Citation.]” (Jacobs v. Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage Co.
(2017) 14 Cal.App.5th 438, 446–447, 221 Cal.Rptr.3d 701 (Jacobs).) “ ‘Generally, if a danger is so obvious that
a person could reasonably be expected to see it, the condition itself serves as
a warning, and the landowner is under no further duty to remedy or warn of the condition.’
[Citation.] In that situation, owners and possessors of land are entitled to
assume others will ‘perceive the obvious’ and take action to avoid the
dangerous condition. [Citation.]” (Id. at p. 447, 221
Cal.Rptr.3d 701.)
 
“An exception to this
general rule exists when ‘it is foreseeable that the danger may cause injury
despite the fact that it is obvious (e.g., when necessity requires persons to
encounter it).’ [Citation.] In other words, while the obviousness of the condition
and its dangerousness may obviate the landowner's duty to remedy or warn of the
condition in some situations, such obviousness will not negate a duty of care
when it is foreseeable that, because of necessity or other circumstances, a
person may choose to encounter the condition.” (Jacobs, supra, 14 Cal.App.5th at p. 447, 221 Cal.Rptr.3d 701.)
 
(Kaney v. Custance (2022) 74 Cal.App.5th
201, 215.)
 
But the obviousness of
a condition does not necessarily excuse the potential duty of a landowner, not
simply to warn of the condition but to rectify it. The modern and controlling
law on this subject is that “although the obviousness of a danger may obviate
the duty to warn of its existence, if it is foreseeable that the danger may cause injury despite
the fact that it is obvious (e.g., when necessity requires persons to encounter
it), there may be a duty to remedy the danger,
and the breach of that duty may in turn form the basis for liability....”


(Martinez v. Chippewa
Enterprises, Inc.
(2004) 121 Cal.App.4th 1179, 1184.)
 
          Ralphs contends that both he painted
arrow on the ground and the wet condition of the ground due to the rain on the
date of the incident was an open and obvious condition.  Plaintiff was aware that the asphalt was wet
at the time of the incident.  (UMF 5,
14.)
          The Court finds that Ralphs has met
its initial burden to establish the absence of a triable issue of material
fact.  While Ralphs’ proffered evidence
shows Plaintiff was aware of the wet ground at the time of the incident, that
does not necessarily vindicate Ralphs here. 
At most, it obviated Ralphs’ duty to warn Plaintiff of the
condition.  (See Martinez, supra, 121
Cal.App.4th at p. 1184.) It does not address the foreseeability of this danger
and whether Ralphs had a duty to remedy such a danger.  (See Id.)
          Therefore, the Court declines to award
summary judgment on these grounds.
 


