 Case Number:  23STCV07720    Hearing Date:   January 18, 2024    Dept:  27  
 
 
SUPERIOR COURT OF
THE STATE OF CALIFORNIA 
FOR THE COUNTY OF
LOS ANGELES - CENTRAL DISTRICT
 



HOPE GOLDEN,
                        Plaintiff(s),
            vs.
 
LYNWOOD JH, LLC, et al., 
 

                        Defendant(s).
 
 



)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
)
 


   
  CASE NO.: 23STCV07720
 
[TENTATIVE] ORDER RE:
MOTION FOR AN ORDER DEEMING MATTERS
  ADMITTED AND FOR SANCTIONS AGAINST PLAINTIFF HOPE GOLDEN
 
Dept. 27
1:30 p.m.
January 18, 2024



 
MOVING
PARTY:            Defendants Lynwood JH,
LLC, Josef Haghnazarzadeh, and Mikel Haghnazarzadeh
RESPONDING PARTY:    None
 
I.         BACKGROUND
On
April 7, 2023, Plaintiff Hope Golden (“Plaintiff”) filed this action.
On
June 6, 2023, Plaintiff filed the operative First Amended Complaint (“FAC”) against
Defendants Lynwood JH, LLC, Josef Haghnazarzadeh,
and Mikel Haghnazarzadeh (collectively, “Defendants”), asserting three causes
of action for (1) general negligence, (2) premises liability, and (3)
intentional torts. 
The FAC appears to allege a
landlord-tenant relationship between Plaintiff and Defendants. According to the
Attachments to the Complaint, on April 8, 2021, Plaintiff returned to 5314
South Broadway #B, Los Angeles, CA 90037, after being evicted on April 6, 2021,
and found that the unit had no operating locks, allowing two individuals to run
freely in the unit, take her belongings, assault her, and batter her.
Defendants were allegedly present during the crime and did not help Plaintiff.  
On July 7, 2023, Defendants filed their
Answer to the Complaint. 
On December 26, 2023, Defendants filed
the instant motion, seeking an order deeming the truth of the matters specified
in their Requests for Admission, Set One, admitted. 
As
of January 12, 2024, no opposition to the motion has been filed. 
A
non-jury trial is set for October 4, 2024. 
II.        LEGAL STANDARD
“Within 30 days after service of
requests for admission, the party to whom the requests are directed shall serve
the original of the response to them on the requesting party, and a copy of the
response on all other parties who have appeared, unless on motion of the
requesting party the court has shortened the time for response, or unless on
motion of the responding party the court has extended the time for response.”
(Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.250, subd. (a).) 
“The party requesting admissions and
the responding party may agree to extend the time for service of a response to
a set of admission requests, or to particular requests in a set, to a date
beyond that provided in Section 2033.250 [above].” (Code Civ. Proc., §
2033.260, subd. (a).) “This agreement may be informal, but it shall be
confirmed in a writing that specifies the extended date for service of a
response.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.260, subd. (b).)
If a party to whom requests for
admission are directed fails to serve a timely response, “[t]he party to whom
the requests for admission are directed waives any objection to the requests …
[unless the court, on motion, relieves that party from the waiver].” (Code Civ.
Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (a).)
In
addition, “[t]he requesting party may move for an order that the genuineness of
any documents and the truth of any matters specified in the requests be deemed
admitted, as well as for a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with
Section 2023.010).” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (b).)
III.      DISCUSSION
A.   Requests for
Admission at Issue
Defense
counsel attests to the following facts in support of the instant motion. On September
14, 2023, counsel’s office propounded Defendant’s Requests for Admission, Set
One (“RFAs”), on Plaintiff, and the responses were due on October 16, 2023.
(Motion, Declaration of Matthew Evans (“Evans Decl.”), ¶ 2.) Plaintiff did not
respond to the RFAs. (Evans Decl., ¶ 3.) The RFAs asked Plaintiff to admit to
the following. 
1.   Defendants did
not breach any legal duty owed to YOU.
2.   Defendants did
not cause YOU any damages as alleged in YOUR operative complaint.
3.   Defendants were
not involved in the INCIDENT.
4.   The INCIDENT as
alleged in YOUR operative complaint never happened.
5.   YOU and
Defendants never had any agreement with respect to the premises where YOU allege
that the INCIDENT happened.
6.   No third party
who YOU alleged caused YOU any damages as alleged in YOUR operative complaint
was an agent of Defendants.
7.   No third party
who YOU alleged caused YOU any damages as alleged in YOUR operative complaint
was an employee of Defendants.
8.   No third party
who YOU alleged caused YOU any damages as alleged in YOUR operative complaint
was a partner of Defendants.
9.   No third party
who YOU alleged caused YOU any damages as alleged in YOUR operative complaint
was acting under Defendants’ control.
10.  No third party
who YOU alleged caused YOU any damages as alleged in YOUR operative complaint
was acting at Defendants’ request.
11.  No third party
who YOU alleged caused YOU any damages as alleged in YOUR operative complaint
was acting with Defendants’ approval.
12.  No third party
who YOU alleged caused YOU any damages as alleged in YOUR operative complaint
was acting with Defendants’ consent.
13.  No third party
who YOU alleged caused YOU any damages as alleged in YOUR operative complaint
was acting with Defendants’ knowledge.
14.  Defendants did
not ratify the conduct of any third party who YOU alleged caused YOU any
damages as alleged in YOUR operative complaint.
15.  Defendants were
not present at the premises where You allege the INCIDENT occurred when it
occurred as YOU allege in YOUR operative complaint.
16.  Defendants are
not liable to YOU for punitive damages.
17.  Defendants are
not liable to YOU for medical special damages.
18.  Defendants are
not liable to YOU for general damages.
19.  Defendants are
not liable to YOU for emotional distress damages.
20.  Defendants are
not liable to YOU for damages associated with any stolen property.
21.  Defendants are
not liable to YOU for damages associated with any damaged property.
22.  Defendants are
not liable to YOU under any legal theory.
23.  Defendants are
not liable to YOU for any damages of any type.
(Motion, Evans
Decl., Exhibit A, pp. 2:9-4:3.)
“The
court shall make [an] order [admitting the truth of any matters specified in
the RFAs], unless it finds that the party to whom the requests for admission
have been directed has served, before the hearing on the motion, a proposed
response to the requests for admission that is in substantial compliance with
Section 2033.220.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 2033.280, subd. (c).)
Here,
there is no evidence that Plaintiff has served, before the hearing on this
motion, a proposed response to the RFAs. 
Accordingly,
the Court grants the request to deem the truth of the matters specified in the
RFAs admitted.
B.   Request for Sanctions
“It is mandatory that the court
impose a monetary sanction under Chapter 7 (commencing with Section 2023.010)
on the party or attorney, or both, whose failure to serve a timely response to
requests for admission necessitated this motion.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 2033.280,
subd. (c).)
Here,
Defendant seeks sanctions of $2,400 against Plaintiff. The amount consists of 2
hours defense counsel spent on the moving papers, 2 hours he expected to spend drafting
the reply, and 2 hours he anticipated spending at the hearing, a total of 6 hours
at his billing rate of $400 per hour (equals $2,400). (Evans Decl., ¶ 5.)
The
Court finds the requested sanctions excessive because Defendants did not file
any reply, and it is unlikely that counsel will spend 2 hours at the hearing. 
Therefore,
the Court will deduct $1,200 from the requested sanctions (representing 3 hours
of counsel’s time) and impose sanctions of $1,200 against Plaintiff.
IV.      CONCLUSION
Defendants Lynwood JH, LLC, Josef
Haghnazarzadeh, and Mikel Haghnazarzadeh’s Motion for an Order Deeming Matters Admitted and for Sanctions is GRANTED
as follows. 
The truth of the matters
specified in the Defendants’ Requests for Admission, Set One, propounded on Plaintiff
Hope
Golden on September 14, 2023, is deemed admitted. 
The
request for sanctions is granted, but in the reduced amount of $1,200. Plaintiff is ordered to pay Defendants sanctions of $1,200. 
Moving
parties to give notice.  
            Parties who intend to submit on this
tentative must send an email to the Court at SSCDEPT27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit
on the tentative as directed by the instructions provided on the court’s
website at www.lacourt.org.  Please be
advised that if you submit on the tentative and elect not to appear at the
hearing, the opposing party may nevertheless appear at the hearing and argue
the matter.  Unless you receive a
submission from all other parties in the matter, you should assume that others
might appear at the hearing to argue.  If
the Court does not receive emails from the parties indicating submission on
this tentative ruling and there are no appearances at the hearing, the Court
may, at its discretion, adopt the tentative as the final order or place the
motion off calendar.
        Dated this 18th day of January 2024
 
 




 


 




 


Hon. Lee S.
  Arian
Judge of the
  Superior Court




 