

 
            This is a
collections action. The Complaint alleges that Defendant Euphoria Textile, Inc.
(Euphoria) became indebted to Juno Textile Co., Ltd. in the amount of
$30,795.50. (Compl., ¶ 10.) Defendant Euphoria failed to pay the amounts due.
(Compl., ¶ 8.) This indebtedness claim was assigned to Plaintiff Korea Trade
Insurance Corporation (Plaintiff). (Compl., ¶ 1.)
 
Plaintiffs filed its Complaint on March
14, 2023. The Request for Entry of Default against Defendant Euphoria was
granted on May 26, 2023. Plaintiff dismissed Does 1-10. On August 16, 2023, the
Court denied Plaintiff’s initial request for entry of default judgment. 
 
On Plaintiff’s second attempt, the
request for entry of default judgment is again denied. 
 
DISCUSSION 
 
            Plaintiff
requests entry of default judgment in the amount of $37,781.75, which includes
$4,193.25 in interest, $593 in costs, and $1,2000 in attorney fees. 
 
The governing rule is CRC Rule 3.1800 which lays out the requirements for
default judgments. In pertinent part, the rule dictates that a party must use
form CIV-100 and file the following documents with the clerk: (1) Except in
unlawful detainer cases, a brief summary of the case identifying the parties
and the nature of plaintiff's claim; (2) Declarations or other admissible
evidence in support of the judgment requested; (3) Interest computations
as necessary; (4) A memorandum of costs and disbursements; (5) A
declaration of nonmilitary status for each defendant against whom judgment is
sought; (6) A proposed form of judgment;
(7) A dismissal of
all parties against whom judgment is not sought or an application for separate
judgment against specified parties under Code of Civil Procedure section 579,
supported by a showing of grounds for each judgment; (8) Exhibits as
necessary; and (9) A request for attorney fees if allowed by statute or by
the agreement of the parties.
 
            Here, Plaintiff again submits the same
declaration of its Chief Representative, who attached the “statement of
Accounts and/or invoices” that Plaintiff sent to Defendant. (Lee Decl., ¶ 2.) The
declaration represents that ‘[t]here is now due, owing and unpaid, on open book
account, despite due demand for payment, the sum of $30,795.50 . . ..” (Lee
Decl., ¶ 3.)  
 
In addition to the damages sought, Plaintiff requests interest
accruing from December 22, 2021, the date of the last payment, to May 3, 2023,
for a total of $4,193.25 in prejudgment interest. (Brodkin Interest Decl., ¶
4.) Plaintiff also requests attorney fees in the amount of $1,200, which is
consistent with Civil Code section 1717.5. (Brodkin Fees Decl., ¶ 5.)
 
            The
evidence submitted to prove-up the amount of damages requested in the Complaint
is again inadequate. 
 
A party seeking a default judgment must
submit, among other documents, “[d]eclarations or other admissible evidence in
support of the judgment requested.” (Cal. Rules of Court, rule 3.1800(a)(2);
accord, Holloway v. Quetel (2015) 242 Cal.App.4th 1425, 1432; see Code
Civ. Proc. § 585, subdivision (d) [authorizing trial court to “permit the use
of affidavits, in lieu of personal testimony, as to all or any part of the
evidence or proof required or permitted to be offered, received, or heard” on a
plaintiff's request for default
judgment].)
“The facts stated in the affidavit or affidavits shall be within the
personal knowledge of the affiant and shall be set forth with particularity,
and each affidavit shall show affirmatively that the affiant, if sworn as a
witness, can testify competently thereto.” (Code Civ. Proc. § 585, subd. (d)
[emphasis added].)
 
            As the Court previously stated, Plaintiff’s form declaration, which
remains nearly illegible, fails to set forth the specifics of the parties’
transaction. Further, given the fact that the declaration was submitted by the
assignee, it is unclear what personal knowledge Plaintiff has as to the damages
incurred in the business transaction between Defendant Euphoria Textile, Inc.
and assignor, Juno Textile Co., Ltd. 
 
            Although Plaintiff submitted an additional document, titled “Assignment
of Claim,” on this attempt for entry of default judgment, the submission only contains
the Letter of Assignment, which the Court previously considered as an
attachment to the Lee Declaration. That is, Plaintiff has not submitted any new
or different evidence on this attempt for entry of default judgment. 
 
            The Court denies the request for default judgment. (Kim v.
Westmoore Partners, Inc. (2011) 201 Cal.App.4th 267, 288 [“ ‘[p]laintiffs
in a default judgment proceeding must prove they are entitled to the damages
claimed’ ”].)
 
            At the hearing the Court will set a further date for the consideration
of a further OSC re entry of default judgment and a date for submission of
material in support.
 
 
 