  Case Number:  22STCV11454    Hearing Date:   October 10, 2024    Dept:  68 Dept. 68
Date: 10-10-24
Case # 22STCV11454
Trial Date: 11-4-24 c/f 7-1-24
 
SUMMARY JUDGMENT
 
MOVING PARTY: Defendant, Gilbert Insurance Services, Inc.
RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Matthew Garza
 
RELIEF REQUESTED
Motion for Summary Judgment
 
Joinder of Paradigm – Gilbert Insurance Group, LLC
 
SUMMARY OF ACTION
Plaintiff Matthew S. Garza was a Major League Baseball
(MLB) pitcher for 12 years. Plaintiff’s career with a MLB team ended after the
2017 season, due to a pitching arm shoulder injury, which was not successfully
repaired following surgery well enough to return to MLB pitching form. 
 
Prior to the injury causing event, Plaintiff procured a
ten million disability insurance policy from defendant Certain Underwriters at
Lloyd’s of London Subscribing to the Policy (Lloyd’s). Plaintiff maintains the
policy was procured and submitted by defendant International Specialty
Insurance Services, Inc. (ISI), Nigro Karlin Segal & Feldstein, LLP and
NKSFB, LLC (collectively NKSFB). Defendants Paradigm - Gilbert Insurance Group,
LLC, and Gilbert Insurance Services, Inc. (Paradigm and Gilbert) assisted Plaintiff
in providing information in support of the application, though the application
admittedly omitted certain information at the time of submission. Following
submission of the claim to Lloyd’s, the claim was denied based at least in part
on the provision of an incomplete application. 
 
On Jul 1, 2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Breach of
Contract, Breach of Implied Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, and Breach of
Duties as an Insurance Broker. The case was initially filed in Fresno County,
and transferred to Los Angeles County on April 5, 2022, following a successful
motion to change venue. Lloyd’s also previously filed a cross-complaint against
Paradigm and Gilbert for Fraud, Negligence, Negligent Misrepresentation, and
Comparative Fault/Contribution. 
 
On May 11, 2022, the case was reassigned from complex
court to Department 68, and independent calendar court. On July 26, 2022, the
court granted the motion to strike the cross-complaint with leave to amend.
Lloyd’s filed its first amended cross-complaint on August 11, 2022. On December
6, 2022, the court denied the motion to strike the first amended
cross-complaint. 
 
On December 21, 2022, the court granted Plaintiff leave
to file a first amended complaint. The amended pleading added in defendants
NKSFB and new causes of action. On the same date, the first amended complaint
for Breach of Contract (first and fourth causes of action), Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Breach of Duties as an Insurance
Brokers, Intentional Misrepresentation, Negligent Misrepresentation, and Breach
of Fiduciary Duties, was filed. 
 
On March 23, 2023, the court denied the motion to compel
arbitration. On March 29, 2203, the court overruled the demurrer to the first
amended complaint, and a motion for sanctions, both brought by Gilbert
Insurance Services. 
 
On December 14, 2023, the court granted the motion of
International Specialty Insurance Services, Inc. to interplead $133,624.68 in
funds with the court.
 
RULING: Denied.
Plaintiff’s Objections to UMF numbers 17, 18 and 20:
Overruled/Not Relied Upon (Code Civ. Proc., 437c, subd. (q).)
 
Defendant’s Objections: 
Numbers 8 and 58: Overruled.
Numbers 1-7, 9-57, and 59-62: Overruled/Not Relied Upon
(Code Civ. Proc., 437c, subd. (q).)
 
Both applications for sealing documents were not
considered. While a motion or application are proper, the court requires the
setting of a hearing before the issuance of any order sealing documents. The
court declines to sua sponte consider the applications. Any and all lodged
documents will not be considered by the court. The parties may retrieve all
lodged documents from the court.
 
Defendant Gilbert Insurance Services, Inc. (Gilbert)
brings a motion for summary judgment on the complaint of Plaintiff Matthew
Garza on grounds that Gilbert owed no duty of care, as any such services were
prohibited, no benefits were due under the policy due to a preexisting
condition, and the insurance claim was untimely. Plaintiff in opposition
counters that Gilbert undertook a duty of care to complete the application and
obtain insurance. Plaintiff denies any exclusions, and maintains the action was
timely filed. Gilbert in reply reiterates the policy exclusions, and
untimeliness. 
 
The pleadings
frame the issues for motions, “since it is those allegations to which
the motion must respond. (Citation.)” 
(Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37
Cal. App. 4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.) The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)  
 
“On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf
v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant
moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Ibid.) 
 
“When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inference that may be drawn form that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “An
issue of fact can only be created by a conflict in the evidence.  It is not created by speculation, conjecture,
imagination or guesswork.”  (Lyons v. Security Pacific National Bank
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041 (citation omitted).)
 
The “Insurance Broker” Defendants, Paradigm, Gilbert, and
ISI, are only named in the third cause of action for Breach of Duties in the
operative first amended complaint. Plaintiff alleges “Paradigm, Gilbert, and
ISI each held themselves out as having expertise in the specialized world of
disability insurance for professional athletes and, as such, owed an additional
duty to use reasonable care, diligence, and judgment in procuring the insurance
requested including the duty to accurately, timely and truthfully submit
information to Lloyd’s on Mr. Garza’s behalf.” [First Amend. Comp., ¶ 97.] 
 
Plaintiff specifically articulates several bases of the
purported breach, including: 
1) improperly allowing Mr. Garza to submit an incomplete
policy application to Lloyd’s; 
2) failing to ensure that Lloyd’s obtained all relevant
medical records during the underwriting process; 
3) failing to check publicly available information to ensure
that Mr. Garza’s injury history was fully and accurately reported to the
Insurers; 
4) failing to perform even a rudimentary search of the
Internet to confirm Mr. Garza’s prior injury history; 
5) failing to properly shepherd Mr. Garza’s claim through
the claims process; 
6) failing to prevent Lloyd’s from conducting improper post
claims underwriting in a transparent attempt to manufacture a basis to deny Mr.
Garza’s claim and rescind the Subject Policy; 
7) as to ISI only, despite agreeing in writing to take it
upon itself to secure “the team medicals [for Mr. Garza] ASAP” during the
procurement process in order to submit a complete and accurate policy
application, ISI failed to obtain any of Mr. Garza’s medical records and ISI
also failed to conduct any of its own investigation into Mr. Garza’s injury
history which, in turn, meant that ISI failed to take steps ensure that Mr.
Garza’s application was complete and accurate when it was submitted to Lloyd’s;
and 
8) as to Paradigm only, improperly advising Mr. Garza to
make certain alleged admissions regarding statements made in the initial and
the updated applications. Paradigm advised Mr. Garza that, by making these
alleged admissions, Lloyd’s would agree to pay his claim, instead Lloyd’s used
those alleged admissions to justify their rescission of the Policy and denial
of the claim. [First Amend. Comp., ¶ 98.]
 
The court examines the motion under the six (6) articulated
claims, excluding the claim as to Paradigm and ISI. Gilbert maintains the
provision of signatures without filling in any information and/or reliance on
the business managers to complete the insurance application bars any claim for
wrongful conduct. Gilbert cites to the application itself, which states in
part: “2. No agent, broker or medical examiner has the authority to waive the
answers to any question, to determine insurability, to waive any of the
Insurer’s rights or requirements, or to make or alter any contract or policy.”
[Declaration of Frances O’Meara, Appendix of Evidence, Exhibit 2.] 
 
Plaintiff in opposition maintains a duty of care was imposed
based on an insurance agent’s responsibility in obtaining the correct policy. “Insurance
brokers owe a limited duty to their clients, which is only ‘to use reasonable
care, diligence, and judgment in procuring the insurance requested by an
insured.’ [Citations.] Accordingly, an insurance broker does not breach its
duty to clients to procure the requested insurance policy unless ‘(a) the
[broker] misrepresents the nature, extent or scope of the coverage being
offered or provided ... , (b) there is a request or inquiry by the insured for
a particular type or extent of coverage ... , or (c) the [broker] assumes an
additional duty by either express agreement or by “holding himself out” as
having expertise in a given field of insurance being sought by the insured.’
[Citation.]” Mark Tanner Constr. v. Hub Internat. Ins. Servs. (2014)
224 Cal.App.4th 574, 584 [additional quotation marks omitted].)
 
“Insurance agents and brokers have been held liable to
insureds or applicants for insurance on a number of theories including breach
of contract and professional negligence. (Citations.) Some of the cases
arise in the context of an agent who fails to obtain insurance for a client as
promised. (Citations) In other cases, the agent obtains insurance but fails to
obtain certain requested coverage (citations]) or obtains the requested
coverage in the wrong amount (citations). In any of these situations, contractual
liability of the agent can be at least theoretically premised on the agent's
breach of an oral agreement to obtain insurance as requested by the client.”
[¶][¶] “As a general proposition, an insurance agent will be liable to his
client in tort where his intentional acts or failure to exercise reasonable
care with regard to the obtaining or maintenance of insurance results in damage
to the client. (Citation).” (Saunders v. Cariss (1990) 224
Cal.App.3d 905, 908–909.)
 
Plaintiff presents evidence whereby Garza was instructed to
sign the blank application and return it to NKSFB. [Declaration of Richard
Giller, ¶ 3, Ex. 1: Deposition of Garza, 131:3-134:13.]  The initial application was acknowledged as
incomplete, and Gilbert was informed of said omissions. NKFSB and Gilbert
agreed to add in missing information on behalf of the client and resubmit the
application. [Id., ¶¶ 40-41, Ex. 4, 38-39, 41, 55.] Plaintiff was never
presented with any supplemental requests for information or an updated
application. [Id., Garza Depo.] Plaintiff also contends Gilbert represented
itself as a specialist or expert in baseball player disability coverage. 
 
The language in the insurance application remains
undisputed: Gilbert was contractually barred from waiving any requirements on
behalf of Insurer.  “No agent, broker or
medical examiner has the authority to waive the answers to any question, to
determine insurability, to waive any of the Insurer’s rights or requirements,
or to make or alter any contract or policy.”  
While Gilbert cites to the contractual provision, said discussion lacks
any address the duty of care alleged in the complaint. The deposition and email
communications indicate a voluntary undertaking of the duty to acquire the
insurance policy and submit a completed form.
 
Both parties dispute the scope of duty based on language
from a leading case on the subject matter: “We conclude that policy reasons
support imposing a duty on insurance brokers to exercise reasonable care in
preparing insurance applications ... We emphasize that our holding should not
be construed as treating an insurance broker as a guarantor of information in
an insurance application or as imposing a duty on a broker to independently
investigate information provided by the insured. However, when the broker knows
of actual misstatements, the broker may be held liable for transmitting those
misrepresentations in an insurance application knowing the insurer will
reasonably rely on them.” (Century Surety Co. v. Crosby Insurance,
Inc. (2004) 124 Cal.App.4th 116, 129.) 
 
Neither party presents a particularly thorough explanation
of the applicability relative to the subject action. Plaintiff cites to Lloyd’s
PMK deposition testimony regarding the necessity of a completed application for
issuance of the policy, but no such deposition is actually attached to the
Giller Decl. [See UMF 115 and Giller Decl., Ex. 6: Deposition of Simon Buckley,
205:8-207:6.] Plaintiff relies on an assumption that the missing information
regarding prior injury resulting in placement on the Disabled List (“DL”) was
information either known or readily determined by Gilbert, thereby constituting
a de facto misrepresentation of fact regarding the health of Garza. The
argument finds support in the denial of the claim from an entity identified as
Hamilton, whereby “inaccurate statements and material misrepresentations,
particularly regarding prior symptoms, treatment, diagnoses, and periods of
disability relating to your right shoulder” were specifically noted. [Giller
Decl., Ex. 56: October 14, 2020, letter.] The court finds the unchallenged
conclusion sufficient to raise triable issues of material fact on the issues of
the entire negligence claim, including the undertaking of a duty of care to
obtain and submit a completed application, the duty to submit an accurate,
truthful and complete application, the failure to submit a complete
application, said failure to submit an application led to the cancellation of
policy, and damages in the form of the loss of the policy benefits. (Century
Surety Co. v. Crosby Insurance, Inc., supra, 124 Cal.App.4th at p.
127.) 
 
Since Gilbert is only named in the single cause of action,
and the court finds triable issues of material on the issue of broker negligence,
the court cannot accord relief unless the entire action lacks merit. Gilbert
insufficiently addresses the broker standard of care and the triable issues of
material fact preclude summary judgment. The motion for summary judgment is therefore
DENIED on this basis.
 
Even if the court considers the separate causation
challenge, such argument regarding whether Plaintiff would have been insured
had the full prior injuries been disclosed presents argument not germane to the
actual claim arising from the submission of the misstated application. Reliance
on an assumption of the denial of an issued policy, or preexisting exclusion
and denial of benefits for said injury, lacks applicability to the actual basis
of the operative complaint: the improper conduct in submitting the false
application and improperly obtaining insurance coverage based on
misrepresentation of fact. Had the application been properly submitted, and
Lloyd’s rejected the policy or charged a higher premium remains unknown. The
court declines to rely on retroactive review in the deposition testimony. Assuming
said denial of coverage, however, nothing in the record establishes the lack of
other potential alternatives for coverage. Thus, the dependence on Lloyd’s as
the single basis for any all coverage, and further assumption that Plaintiff
was destined to sustain an uncovered injury, in no way leads to relief from the
actual alleged basis of wrongful conduct. Again, the duty of care undertaken by
Gilbert was to obtain a disability policy not to submit an incomplete or
misleading application. The motion is therefore denied on the separate
“causation” discussion as well.
 
Finally, on the too late to submit the claim position,
again, Defendant again depends on the assumption of an uncovered claim. In
addition to the issue with the assumption that the policy is somehow
inextricably intertwined with the wrongful conduct by Gilbert already rejected,
the court also declines to address medical qualitative issues regarding
potential coverage based on medical evidence. Again, the medical evidence is
not considered by the court. Even if it was, the court declines make a
medically based determination for the basis of coverage as a matter of law. The
motion is denied on this basis.
 
The motion for summary judgment is DENIED.
 
Trial remains set for November 4, 2024.
 
Gilbert to give notice.Dept. 68Date: 10-10-24Case # 22STCV11454Trial Date: 11-4-24 c/f 7-1-24 SUMMARY JUDGMENT MOVING PARTY: Defendants, NKSFB, LLC, et al.RESPONDING PARTY: Plaintiff, Matthew Garza RELIEF REQUESTEDMotion for Summary Judgment Joinder of Paradigm – Gilbert Insurance Group, LLC SUMMARY OF ACTIONPlaintiff Matthew S. Garza was a Major League Baseball
(MLB) pitcher for 12 years. Plaintiff’s career with a MLB team ended after the
2017 season, due to a pitching arm shoulder injury, which was not successfully
repaired following surgery well enough to return to MLB pitching form.  Prior to the injury causing event, Plaintiff procured a
ten million disability insurance policy from defendant Certain Underwriters at
Lloyd’s of London Subscribing to the Policy (Lloyd’s). Plaintiff maintains the
policy was procured and submitted by defendant International Specialty
Insurance Services, Inc. (ISI), Nigro Karlin Segal & Feldstein, LLP and
NKSFB, LLC (collectively NKSFB). Defendants Paradigm - Gilbert Insurance Group,
LLC, and Gilbert Insurance Services, Inc. (Paradigm and Gilbert) assisted Plaintiff
in providing information in support of the application, though the application
admittedly omitted certain information at the time of submission. Following
submission of the claim to Lloyd’s, the claim was denied based at least in part
on the provision of an incomplete application.  On Jul 1, 2021, Plaintiff filed a complaint for Breach of
Contract, Breach of Implied Duty of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, and Breach of
Duties as an Insurance Broker. The case was initially filed in Fresno County,
and transferred to Los Angeles County on April 5, 2022, following a successful
motion to change venue. Lloyd’s also previously filed a cross-complaint against
Paradigm and Gilbert for Fraud, Negligence, Negligent Misrepresentation, and
Comparative Fault/Contribution.  On May 11, 2022, the case was reassigned from complex
court to Department 68, and independent calendar court. On July 26, 2022, the
court granted the motion to strike the cross-complaint with leave to amend.
Lloyd’s filed its first amended cross-complaint on August 11, 2022. On December
6, 2022, the court denied the motion to strike the first amended
cross-complaint.  On December 21, 2022, the court granted Plaintiff leave
to file a first amended complaint. The amended pleading added in defendants
NKSFB and new causes of action. On the same date, the first amended complaint
for Breach of Contract (first and fourth causes of action), Breach of Implied
Covenant of Good Faith and Fair Dealing, Breach of Duties as an Insurance
Brokers, Intentional Misrepresentation, Negligent Misrepresentation, and Breach
of Fiduciary Duties, was filed.  On March 23, 2023, the court denied the motion to compel
arbitration. On March 29, 2203, the court overruled the demurrer to the first
amended complaint, and a motion for sanctions, both brought by Gilbert
Insurance Services.  On December 14, 2023, the court granted the motion of
International Specialty Insurance Services, Inc. to interplead $133,624.68 in
funds with the court. RULING: Denied.The applications for sealing documents by Plaintiff was
not considered. While a motion or application are proper, the court requires
the setting of a hearing before the issuance of any order sealing documents.
The court declines to sua sponte consider the applications. Any and all lodged
documents will not be considered by the court. Plaintiff may retrieve all
lodged documents from the court. Defendants NKSFB, LLC and Nigro Karlin Segal &
Feldstein, LLP (NKSFB) brings a motion for summary judgment or alternatively
summary adjudication on the fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh causes of action  complaint of Plaintiff Matthew Garza on
grounds that NKSFB on grounds stated in the “second” and “third” portions of
the motion for summary judgment presented in the (concurrent) Gilbert Insurance
Services, Inc. Specifically no benefits were due under the policy due to a
preexisting condition, and the insurance claim was untimely. Plaintiff in
opposition counters that Gilbert undertook a duty of care to complete the
application and obtain insurance. Plaintiff denies any exclusions, and
maintains the action was timely filed. NKSFB in reply maintains its notice of
motion and separate statement are proper. NKSFB offers arguably new, or at
least more specifically articulated argument, regarding the lack of benefits
due the preexisting condition, and untimeliness defense. NKSFB also indexes the
four individual causes of action raised against NKSFB, as opposed to the single
cause of action against Gilbert. The pleadings
frame the issues for motions, “since it is those allegations to which
the motion must respond. (Citation.)” 
(Scolinos v. Kolts (1995) 37
Cal. App. 4th 635, 640-641; FPI Development, Inc. v. Nakashima (1991) 231 Cal.App.3d 367, 382-383; Jordan-Lyon Prods., LTD. v. Cineplex Odeon Corp. (1994) 29
Cal.App.4th 1459, 1472.) The purpose of a motion for summary judgment or
summary adjudication “is to provide courts with a mechanism to cut through the
parties’ pleadings in order to determine whether, despite their allegations,
trial is in fact necessary to resolve their dispute.” (Aguilar v. Atl. Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 843.)  “Code of Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (c), requires the trial judge to grant summary judgment if all the
evidence submitted, and ‘all inferences reasonably deducible from the evidence’
and uncontradicted by other inferences or evidence, show that there is no
triable issue as to any material fact and that the moving party is entitled to
judgment as a matter of law.”  (Adler v. Manor Healthcare Corp. (1992) 7
Cal.App.4th 1110, 1119.)   “On a motion for summary judgment, the initial burden is
always on the moving party to make a prima facie showing that there are no
triable issues of material fact.” (Scalf
v. D.B. Log Homes, Inc. (2005) 128 Cal.App.4th 1510, 1519.) A defendant
moving for summary judgment “has met his or her burden of showing that a cause
of action has no merit if the party has shown that one or more elements of the
cause of action . . . cannot be established.” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (p)(2).) “Once the defendant . . . has
met that burden, the burden shifts to the plaintiff . . . to show that a
triable issue of one or more material facts exists as to the cause of action or
a defense thereto.” (Ibid.)  “When deciding whether to grant summary judgment, the court
must consider all of the evidence set forth in the papers (except evidence to
which the court has sustained an objection), as well as all reasonable
inference that may be drawn form that evidence, in the light most favorable to
the party opposing summary judgment.” (Avivi v. Centro Medico Urgente Medical Center (2008) 159
Cal.App.4th 463, 467; see also Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “An
issue of fact can only be created by a conflict in the evidence.  It is not created by speculation, conjecture,
imagination or guesswork.”  (Lyons v. Security Pacific National Bank
(1995) 40 Cal.App.4th 1001, 1041 (citation omitted).) The NKSFB defendants are exclusively named in the fourth,
fifth, sixth, and seventh causes of action for Breach of Contract, Intentional
Misrepresentation, Negligent Misrepresentation, and Breach of Fiduciary Duties.
The motion itself requests incorporation of the Gilbert points and authorities
without any separate points and authorities. The motion lacks any submitted
evidence, and relies on identified transcripts and documents apparently
incorporated by other motions. The Gilbert motion only addressed the third
cause of action for negligence. To the extent NKSFB relies on said Gilbert
motion, Plaintiff also cites back to said opposition.  The motion itself violates California Rules of Court, rule
3.1350(c)(3-4) due to the lack of any points and authorities and evidence in
support. The lack of evidence also violates Code of Civil Procedure section
437c, subd. (b)(1). A notice of motion and separate statement are allowable for
purposes of a joinder to a motion for summary judgment. (Code Civ. Proc., 437c,
subd. (p)(2); Village Nurseries, L.P. v. Greenbaum (2002) 101
Cal.App.4th 26, 47; Frazee v. Seely (2002) 95 Cal.App.4th 627, 636.)
Nevertheless, to the extent the court denied the motion of Gilbert, the court
also denies the motion of NKSFB. Reliance on the negligence standard addressed
in Gilbert in no way equates to the requirements for the four causes of action
alleged in the operative complaint against NKSFB. “When a party merely joins in
a motion for summary judgment without presenting its own evidence, the party
fails to establish the necessary factual foundation to support the motion.” (Barak
v. The Quisenberry Law Firm (2006) 135 Cal.App.4th 654, 661.) The
notice and separate statement lack a nexus between the items. The separate
statement and reliance on an in applicable cause of action is insufficient for
purposes of meeting the summary judgment threshold of showing no valid claim or
a complete defense. The motion is DENIED on this basis.  As in Gilbert, even if the court considers relied upon
assumption of the denial of an issued policy, or preexisting exclusion and
denial of benefits for said injury, lacks applicability to the actual basis of
the operative complaint: the improper conduct in submitting the false
application and improperly obtaining insurance coverage based on
misrepresentation of fact. Had the application been properly submitted, and
Lloyd’s rejected the policy or charged a higher premium, remains unknown.
Assuming a denial of coverage, nothing in the record establishes the lack of other
potential alternatives for coverage. Thus, the dependence on Lloyd’s as the
single basis for any all coverage, and further assumption that Plaintiff was
destined to sustain an uncovered injury, in no way leads to relief from the
actual alleged basis of wrongful conduct. Finally, on the too late to submit the claim position,
again, Defendant again depends on the assumption of an uncovered claim. In
addition to the issue with the assumption that the policy is somehow
inextricably intertwined with the wrongful conduct of NKSFB not in anyway
sufficiently factually addressed in the “motion,” the court also declines to
address medical qualitative issues regarding potential coverage based on
medical evidence. Again, the medical evidence is not considered by the court.  The motion for summary judgment is DENIED. Trial remains set for November 4, 2024. NKSFB parties to give notice. 

 