  Case Number:  24TRCV002549    Hearing Date:   May 24, 2024    Dept:  M LOS ANGELES SUPERIOR COURT –
SOUTHWEST DISTRICT
 
 
Honorable Gary Y. Tanaka                                                                                                 Friday, May 24, 2024
Department M                                                                                                                              Calendar
No. 1
 
 
PROCEEDINGS
 
Rose Marie Krawczyk v. Episcopal
Community & Services for Senior, et al.
            24TRCV00249
1.      Rose Marie Krawczyk’s Motion for Trial Preference
 
TENTATIVE RULING
 
            Rose Marie Krawczyk’s Motion for
Trial Preference is granted.
 
Background 
            
            Plaintiff filed the Complaint on January
24, 2024. Plaintiff alleges the following facts. Due to the negligent and
willful conduct of Defendants, Plaintiff suffered multiple falls at Defendants’
facilities causing serious injuries to Plaintiff. Plaintiff set forth the
following causes of action: 1. Statutory Elder Abuse/Neglect 2. Negligence 3.
Violation of Health & Safety Code § 1430. 
 
Motion for Preferential Trial Date
 
Code of Civil Procedure section 36 states, in relevant
part:
“(a) A party to a civil action who is over 70 years of
age may petition the court for a preference, which the court shall grant if the
court makes both of the following findings:
(1) The party has a substantial interest in the action
as a whole.
(2) The health of the party is such that a preference
is necessary to prevent prejudicing the party's interest in the litigation.
(f) Upon the granting of such a motion for preference,
the court shall set the matter for trial not more than 120 days from that date
and there shall be no continuance beyond 120 days from the granting of the
motion for preference except for physical disability of a party or a party's
attorney, or upon a showing of good cause stated in the record. Any continuance
shall be for no more than 15 days and no more than one continuance for physical
disability may be granted to any party.”
 
CCP § 36.5 states: “An affidavit submitted in support
of a motion for Preference under subdivision (a) of Section 36 may be signed by
the attorney for the party seeking preference based upon information and belief
as to the medical diagnosis and prognosis of any party. The affidavit is not
admissible for any purpose other than a motion for preference under subdivision
(a) of Section 36.”
 
“[T]he decision to grant or deny a preferential trial
setting rests at all times in the sound discretion of the trial court in light
of the totality of the circumstances.” Salas
v. Sears, Roebuck & Co. (1986) 42 Cal.3d 342, 344. “Where a party meets
the requisite standard for calendar preference under subdivision (a),
preference must be granted. No weighing of interests is involved.” Fox v.
Superior Court (2018) 21 Cal.App.5th 529, 535 (granting the mandatory
motion for trial preference and disregarding Defendant’s arguments that the
Court must balance the interests of the parties, and, further commenting that
arguments regarding due process concerns were baseless). “We conclude that
section 36, subdivision (a), as construed by this court in Rice v. Superior
Court (1982) 136 Cal.App.3d 81 [185 Cal.Rptr. 853], is mandatory and
absolute in its application and does not allow a trial court to exercise the
inherent or statutory general administrative authority it would otherwise
have.” Koch-Ash v. Superior Court (1986) 180 Cal.App.3d 689, 692
(reversing the trial Court’s order to stay an action which was entitled to a
mandatory trial preference and commenting that when an individual qualifies for
a preference under Section 36(a) no discretion is afforded to the Court to deny
a preference). 
 
Objections
 
Canterbury’s objections 1 to 3 are overruled.
 
Motion for Preference
 
Plaintiff moves for a trial preference pursuant to CCP
§ 36(a), based on Plaintiff’s age and health condition. Plaintiff also moves under CCP § 36(e) on the grounds
that the granting of preference would serve the interests of justice.  
 
Plaintiff submitted evidence that Plaintiff is over
the age of 70 and that Plaintiff has a substantial interest in this action.  (Decl., Lukas I. Pick, ¶¶ 1-6; Ex. A.)  Plaintiff submitted adequate evidence that
her health is such that a trial preference is necessary to prevent prejudicing
Plaintiff.  (Id. at ¶¶ 1-6.)  “The standard under [Code of Civil Procedure
Section 36] subdivision (a), unlike under subdivision (d), which is more
specific and more rigorous, includes no requirement of a doctor’s declaration.”
Fox v. Superior Court (2018) 21
Cal.App.5th 529, 534. Unlike other areas of the law, a declaration setting
forth the health of the party in support of a motion for preference under CCP §
36(a) may be made by a conclusory and hearsay declaration from counsel.  Here, Plaintiff’s counsel adequately complied
by setting forth a conclusory hearsay declaration as to the client’s health. 
 
As noted above, an order granting Plaintiff’s motion
for trial preference is mandatory upon a showing by Plaintiff that she has met
the requirements of Section 36(a).  There
is no weighing of interests involved. 
 
Defendants’ oppositions attempt to attack the
declaration of Plaintiff’s counsel. The objections to the declaration have been
ruled upon above. The Court finds that the declaration is competent and
sufficient to testify as to Plaintiff’s health considering the incredibly low
evidentiary threshold that has been established by case authority.
 
Recently named Defendant Clipboard Health, LLC raised
due process concerns regarding its ability to oppose the motion and timely
prepare for trial.  In ruling on a motion
for preference, the Court may take into consideration whether an earlier trial
date may deny a party sufficient time to adequately prepare for trial.  Peters v Superior Court (1989) 212 Cal.App.3d
218, 227. The Court determines that Clipboard Health’s due process concerns are
speculative, at this time. In addition, the Court can certainly consider the parties’
arguments should they be raised at a later time regarding potentially
accelerating discovery periods or shortening notice periods on dispositive
motions. 
 
Therefore, Plaintiff’s Motion for Preferential Trial
Setting is granted. 
 
The trial date is set for ______________________.
 
Plaintiff is ordered to give notice of this ruling.
 