 Case Number:  23LBCV02364    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.    
Background Facts
Plaintiff, Bernald Rock filed this action against Defendants, Patricia
J. Danis, Successor Trustee of the Jean L. Davis Revocable Living Trush, Sati
AH, Inc., Castlehead, Inc., Jona Howe, and Vashti Clisby for damages arising
out of a real estate purchase agreement. 

 
Plaintiff’s operative complaint is his First Amended Complaint, which
he filed on 2/29/24.  The FAC includes
causes of action for breach of contract, breach of the implied covenant of good
faith and fair dealing, fraud, quiet title, and negligence.  
 
The crux of the FAC is that Plaintiff agreed to purchase a piece of
property from Danis.  The property did
not come with a garage, but Danis also owned an adjoining property, which had a
five-car garage.  Danis had been unable
to sell the subject property without a garage, and therefore listed the
property with one of the garages from her adjoining property.  However, during escrow, Danis discovered she
could not extend the property line of the subject property to include the
garage, and therefore the parties agreed that the subject property would be
given a permanent easement over the subject garage.  The parties drafted an exclusive easement
agreement, which Defendant was to record with the escrow company prior to closing.  Escrow, however, determined there was a
problem with the declaration re: easement, and refused to record it.  Plaintiff alleges Defendants instructed
escrow to close despite the lack of declaration.  Escrow closed on 6/11/21, and thereafter
Plaintiff’s attorney learned of the problem and attempted to resolve it.  Danis signed a revised declaration to be
recorded, which both parties signed. 
Danis failed, however, to ever record the revised declaration, and ultimately
Danis’s real estate agent demanded Plaintiff vacate the garage, which Plaintiff
had been using since the close of escrow. 
Plaintiff learned that Danis, in the intervening time, had sold the
property to Defendant SATI.  In late
2022, Danis commenced harassing and bullying Plaintiff into removing his items
from the garage, which he ultimately did in January of 2023.  He filed this action on 12/08/23.  
 
Defendant Clisby represented Plaintiff during the subject sale
transaction.  Defendant Howe represented
Danis during the subject transaction. 
Defendant Castlehead was the escrow provider for the subject
transaction.  As noted above, Defendant
SATI purchased the property with the relevant garage from Defendant Danis.  
 
SATI filed a cross-complaint, and ultimately a First Amended
Cross-Complaint.  The FACC was filed on
9/18/24, and is pled against Davis, Orange Coast Title Company, and Real
Advantage Title Insurance Company.  The
FACC includes claims for breach of statutory duties, fraudulent concealment,
negligent misrepresentation, negligence, breach of contract, implied indemnity,
equitable indemnity, contribution, and declaratory relief.  The crux of the cross-complaint is that,
during escrow, SATI engaged the cross-defendants to determine whether there was
any legitimate claim to use of the garage by Plaintiff, and the
cross-defendants assured him there was no such claim.  
 
2.    
Motion to Compel Arbitration
a.     Parties’
Positions
Danis moves to compel arbitration,
contending two agreements entered into by the parties (the “Cedar Agreement”
and the “6th Street Agreement”) both contain binding arbitration
provisions, such that arbitration must be compelled.  
 
On 10/07/24, Orange Coast and Real
Advantage filed opposition to the motion. 
The cross-defendants correctly note that they are not parties to either
of the agreements that form the basis of the motion, such that they cannot be
compelled into arbitration.  They argue
the entire motion should be denied per CCP §1281.2(c), because the claims in
the cross-complaint are so intertwined with the claims that are subject to the
arbitration provisions that they cannot be meaningfully separated.  In the alternative, they ask the Court to
grant arbitration but deny it as to the claims against them, which should be
severed and remain in Superior Court.  
 
Any reply to the opposition was due
on or before 11/26/24.  The Court has not
received timely reply papers, and will not consider late-filed reply
papers.  
 
b.    
Analysis
On 11/14/24, Plaintiff filed a Notice of Settlement.  The Notice makes clear that all claims in the
FAC against all defendants have been settled. 
Thus, the only claims that remain pending are the claims in the
FACC.  As noted above, the FACC was filed
by SATI and includes claims against Davis, Orange Coast, and Real
Advantage.  The claims against Orange
Coast and Real Advantage are not subject to any arbitration agreement.  There is a risk of inconsistent rulings if
the claims running between SATI and Davis are submitted to arbitration but the
claims running between SATI and Orange Coast/Real Advantage are heard in
court.  The motion to compel arbitration
is therefore denied.  CCP §1281.2(c).
 
3.    
OSC
The parties are reminded that there is an OSC re: Why the Court should
not Sustain the entire Cross-Complaint without Leave to Amend or to Impose
Monetary Sanctions on calendar concurrently with the hearing on the above
motion.  The Court asks the parties to
make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing on the OSC and motion.  