 Case Number:  24LBCV00116    Hearing Date:   December 5, 2024    Dept:  S27 1.     Allegations
of the Complaint
Plaintiff, Arturo Callejas filed
this action against Defendant, Victor Ortega for damages arising out of an
automobile accident.  Plaintiff’s
complaint contains a prayer for punitive damages against Defendant based on the
allegation that Defendant was intoxicated at the time of the subject accident.
 
2.     Motion
to Strike
a.    
Relief Sought
Defendant moves to strike the
prayer for punitive damages and related allegations against him.
 
b.    
Law
Governing Punitive Damages in the Context of Driving Under the Influence
Allegations that a defendant
exhibited a conscious disregard for the safety of others are sufficient to show
malice.  Taylor v. Superior Court (1979)
24 Cal.3d 890, 895-96.  The Taylor court
concluded that the act of operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated may
constitute an act of "malice" under section 3294 if performed under
circumstances which disclose a conscious disregard of the probable dangerous
consequences. "One who wilfully consumes alcoholic beverages to the point
of intoxication, knowing that he thereafter must operate a motor vehicle,
thereby combining sharply impaired physical and mental faculties with a vehicle
capable of great force and speed, reasonably may be held to exhibit a conscious
disregard of the safety of others." 
Id., at p. 897.
 
To properly allege punitive damages
in a motor vehicle accident action, a plaintiff simply needs to "establish
that the defendant was aware of the probable dangerous consequences of his
conduct, and that he wilfully and deliberately failed to avoid those
consequences."  Id., at p. 896.  If the essential gravamen of the complaint is
that "Defendant became intoxicated and thereafter drove a car while in
that condition, despite his knowledge of the safety hazard he created
thereby" then this is sufficient to allege punitive damages.  (Id.) 
While a history of prior arrests, convictions and mishaps may heighten
the probability and foreseeability of an accident, we do not deem these
aggravating factors essential prerequisites to the assessment of punitive damages
in drunk driving cases.  Id.
 
Taylor justified imposing punitive
damages upon the “deliberate” drunk driver for many reasons, including the high
degree of foreseeability of injury and damage flowing from driving while
intoxicated.  The court says the
essential allegation is that defendant became intoxicated and thereafter drove
a car while in that condition, despite his knowledge of the safety hazard he
created thereby.   The decision also
discusses the grave havoc wrought by intoxicated drivers nationwide and equates
the act of deliberately driving while under the influence with a conscious and
deliberate disregard of the interests of others which may be described as
willful or wanton. Such conduct, the court said, has traditionally been a basis for awarding punitive damages. Herrick v. Superior
Court (1987) 188 Cal.App.3d 787, 790.
 
“There is a very commonly
understood risk which attends every motor vehicle driver who is
intoxicated.  [Citation.]  One who wilfully consumes alcoholic beverages
to the point of intoxication, knowing that he thereafter must operate a motor
vehicle, thereby combining sharply impaired physical and mental faculties with
a vehicle capable of great force and speed, reasonably may be held to exhibit a
conscious disregard of the safety of others. 
The effect may be lethal whether or nor the driver had a prior history
of drunk driving incidents.”  Taylor v.
Superior Court (1979) 24 Cal.3d 890, 896-897. 
“[T]he fact of common knowledge that the drinking driver is the cause of
so many of the more serious automobile accidents is strong evidence in itself
to support the need for all possible means of deterring persons from driving
automobiles after drinking, including exposure to awards of punitive damages in
the event of accidents.”  Id., at p. 897.
 
Taylor fell short, however, of
holding that punitive damages are always appropriate in cases involving driving
while intoxicated.  The Court noted, “we
have concluded that the act of operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated may constitute an act of ‘malice’ under
§3294 if performed under circumstances
which disclose a conscious disregard of the probable dangerous consequences.”  Id. at 892.  Emphasis added.
 
Notably, a subsequent decision held
that driving while intoxicated does not always give rise to a claim for
punitive damages.  “[W]e do not agree
that the risk created generally by one who becomes intoxicated and decides
nevertheless to drive a vehicle on the public streets is the same as the risk
created by an intoxicated driver’s decision to zigzag in and out of traffic at
65 miles per hour in a crowded beach recreation area at 1:30 in the afternoon
on a Sunday in June. The risk of injury to others from ordinary driving while
intoxicated is certainly foreseeable, but it is not necessarily probable. The
risk of injury to others from Mardian's conduct under the circumstances alleged
was probable.”  Dawes v. Superior Court
(1980) 111 Cal.App.3d 82.  
The court went on to note, “In
contrast, in the case at bench, as previously noted, petitioners pleaded
specific facts from which the conscious disregard of probable injury to others
may reasonably be inferred. Justice Franson aptly noted the distinction in his
article on punitive damages in vehicle accident cases: Allegations of
intoxication, excessive speed, driving with defective equipment or the running
of a stop signal, without more, do not state a cause of action for punitive
damages. [Par.] On the other hand, if the facts show that the defendant
intentionally drove his vehicle at a high speed into an intersection crowded
with pedestrians, or if he drove at a high speed through a crowded residential
area where children were playing in the street, a legitimate inference of
actual malice perhaps could arise. This would be particularly true if the
defendant had not been drinking, or, if drinking, he was not under the
influence to the point where he was incapable of being aware of the situation
confronting him. Under these circumstances, it reasonably might be said that
the defendant acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible manner that the
jury could infer that he knowingly disregarded the substantial certainty of
injury to others."
 
Further complicating the matter, in
1987, after all of the foregoing cases were decided, the legislature amended
Civil Code §3294 to include a requirement that conduct in conscious disregard
of the rights and safety of others be “despicable” in order to support
imposition of punitive damages.  
 
c.    
Analysis
The complaint herein does not
allege Defendant’s level of intoxication, and fails to allege any additional
aggravating factors.  It merely alleges
that Defendant, on information and belief, drove while intoxicated.  See complaint, ¶¶35-37.  The motion to strike is therefore
granted.  
 
d.     Leave
to Amend
Plaintiff seeks leave to amend in
the event the motion is granted.  Because
this is the original complaint, leave to amend is granted.  If Plaintiff does not have facts to support
amendment under the standard discussed above, he must not amend at this time,
but is free to make a motion for leave to amend if and when he discovers such
facts during the course of the litigation. 
The Court will permit discovery relating to allegations of intoxication
to go forward.  
 
If Plaintiff wishes to amend, he
must do so within twenty days.  Defendant
must file a responsive pleading within the statutory time thereafter.  
 
If Plaintiff does not wish to
amend, Plaintiff must so communicate to Defendant, who must file an answer to
the complaint, with the subject allegations and prayer for punitive damages
deemed stricken, within thirty days.  
 
Defendant is ordered to give
notice.    
 
Parties who intend to submit
on this tentative must send an email to the court at gdcdepts27@lacourt.org indicating intention to submit on the tentative
as directed by the instructions provided on the court website at www.lacourt.org.  If the department
does not receive an email indicating the parties are submitting on the
tentative and there are no appearances at the hearing, the motion may be placed
off calendar.  If a party submits on
the tentative, the party’s email must include the case number and must identify
the party submitting on the tentative. If any party does not submit on the
tentative, the party should make arrangements to appear remotely at the hearing
on this matter.   