 Case Number:  23AHCV00368    Hearing Date:   September 24, 2024    Dept:  X MOTION
TO SET ASIDE STIPUATION
 
Defendants move for an order to set aside the stipulation to liability
signed by defense counsel on or about August 21, 2023.  The Court has considered the moving and
opposing papers, including the supplemental pleadings and evidence filed by the
parties.  
 
Defendants’ Motion is DENIED.
 
Relevant
Facts
 
The
case involves an auto versus motorcycle accident that occurred on May 27, 2022.
 Defendant Butterfield was employed by
Defendant Hertz and was driving a Hertz-owned rental car when the accident
occurred.  Plaintiff Gonzalez was an
on-duty motorcycle traffic officer for the City of Pasadena.    
 
On or about August
21, 2023, defense counsel signed the stipulation at issue.  (Woods Decl., ¶ 6.)  The stipulation concerns liability and
states: “HERTZ and BUTTERFIELD agree to accept full responsibility for causing
the accident, and thereby waive any allegation of comparative negligence on the
part of either the CITY OF PASADENA or GONZALEZ[.]”  (Woods Decl., Exh. B.)  
 
Defendants move to
have the stipulation set aside on the grounds that (1) newly discovered
material facts exist and (2) defense counsel mistakenly signed the stipulation
without the express or implied authority of its client The Hertz Corporation.  That is, “it has been discovered that the
plaintiff was traveling at an excessive speed on a city street without any
front facing lights illuminated.”  (Motion,
pp. 6-7.) 
 
Legal Standard
 
As stated in
Defendants’ notice of motion, Defendants seek relief from the stipulation based
on Code of Civil Procedure sections 128(a) and 473(b).  (See Motion, filed 6/20/24, 2:16-18.)  Defendants, however, abandon seeking relief
under section 473(b) and ask the Court to set aside the stipulation based on
its equitable powers.  (Defendants’
Reply, filed 7/17/24, 2:5-6.)  The Court
notes here that relief under section 473(b) would be unavailable as the motion was
filed more than six months after the stipulation was entered into by the
parties.
 
Notwithstanding the
unavailability of section 473, the Court has equitable power to grant relief.  This requires a showing that the judgment or
order was void due to extrinsic fraud or mistake.  (See County of Alameda v. Risby (1994)
28 Cal.App.4th 1425, 1430.)  Extrinsic
fraud has been explained as follows:
 
Extrinsic
fraud occurs when a party is deprived of his opportunity to present his claim
or defense to the court, where he was kept in ignorance or in some other manner
fraudulently prevented from fully participating in the proceeding.  Examples of extrinsic fraud are: concealment
of the existence of a community property asset, failure to give notice of the
action to the other party, convincing the other party not to obtain counsel
because the matter will not proceed (and it does proceed).  A party’s representation of the value of an
asset, favorable to himself, does not constitute extrinsic fraud.  Extrinsic mistake involves the excusable
neglect of a party.  When this neglect
results in an unjust judgment, without a fair adversary hearing, and the basis
for equitable relief is present, this is extrinsic mistake.  Reliance on an attorney who becomes
incapacitated, or incompetence of the party without appointment of a guardian
ad litem, are examples of extrinsic mistake.
 
(In re Marriage
of Melton (1994) 28 Cal.App.4th 931, 937, internal citations omitted.)
 
There Is No Evidence Of
Extrinsic Mistake Or Fraud

In separate
oppositions, Plaintiffs Gonzalez and the City of Pasadena contend that relief
should be denied because there is no extrinsic fraud or mistake.  Gonzalez’s opposition asserts that after the
Court entered the stipulation, Hertz continued to affirm the stipulation based on
conversations with defense counsel.  For
example, when Gonzalez’s counsel asked defense counsel why he was seeking an
inspection of the motorcycle since the parties had a stipulation regarding
liability, defense counsel reaffirmed that stipulation was good and that his
client was aware of it and supported it.  (Opposition, filed 7/11/24, Krissman Decl., ¶
26.)
 
In reply, Defendants
argue that the Court has equitable powers under Code of Civil Procedure section
128 to set aside the stipulation.  The
Court understands Defendants’ main point is that it would be “unjust to enforce
the stipulation” (Motion, p. 5) given that the “facts have changed and that it
was excusable mistake on the part of defense counsel to rely on the initial
facts . . . when signing the purported stipulation.”  (Motion, p. 5.) 
 
In Kulchar v.
Kulchar (1969) 1 Cal.3d 467, the Court considered whether evidence of
extrinsic fraud or mistake warranted setting aside a judgment.  The Court determined that there was no such mistake
or fraud.  (Id., at p. 473 [“The
evidence in the present case establishes that it is a case in which a party
‘failed to assemble all his evidence at the trial.’”].)  In reaching its conclusion, the Court
analyzed the case of Jorgensen v. Jorgensen (1948) 32 Cal.2d 13:
 
In
Jorgensen the husband disclosed all known assets of the parties.  The husband claimed certain assets as his
separate property.  The wife and her
attorney accepted the husband’s statements at face value without any
independent investigation.  Subsequent to
the divorce decree, however, they learned that some of the assets the husband
claimed as separate property were actually community property, in which the
wife was entitled to a one-half interest.  The wife was denied the right to set aside the
property settlement agreement.  ‘If the
wife and her attorney are satisfied with the husband’s classification of the
property as separate or community, the wife cannot reasonably contend that
fraud was committed or that there was such mistake as to allow her to overcome
the finality of a judgment.  Plaintiff is
barred from obtaining equitable relief by her admission that she and her
attorney did not investigate the facts, choosing instead to rely on the
statements of the husband as to what part of the disclosed property was
community property.’
 
(Kulchar, supra,
at p. 474.)
 
In Defendants’ case,
the parties, through their attorneys, executed a written stipulation.  Defendants’ motion admits that they relied on
Gonzales’ statement in a police report regarding his speed prior to the
accident, and that “Defense counsel agreed to sign the instant purported
stipulation as to fault for the accident” due to a “desire to avoid having to
subject . . . Butterfield to a deposition[.]” 
(Motion, p. 2.)  Defense counsel
believed Gonzales’ speed was 50-55 mph. (Woods Decl., ¶ 16.)  Then, in April 2024, to determine that a
material fact had changed, the defense retained Wei Chao of the Institute of
Risk and Safety Analyses to conduct a speed analysis using video footage of the
accident.  Chao determined Plaintiff was
traveling at a speed of approximately 80 mph and the speed limit of the
accident area would have been 30 mph.  (Chao
Decl., ¶¶ 11-12.)  The motion states
defense counsel never would have agreed to stipulate as to 100% fault against
Defendants if he had known about Plaintiff’s conduct.  (Woods Decl., ¶ 16.)
 
On these facts,
there is nothing to suggest that Plaintiffs “hid” evidence from Defendants or
that Defendants were otherwise precluded by Plaintiffs from further
investigating the incident.  Thus, where
the evidence points to Defendants failing to fully investigate the facts
surrounding the incident prior to entering into the stipulation, Defendants’
arguments to set aside the stipulation are insufficient.  (See, e.g., Harris v. Spinali Auto Sales,
Inc. (1966) 240 Cal.App.2d 447, 454 [“(w)hen there is no mistake but merely
a lack of full knowledge of the facts, which . . . is due to the failure of a
party to exercise due diligence to ascertain them, there is no proper ground
for relief.”].)
 
The Evidence Supports
The Conclusion That Defense Counsel Had His Clients’ Consent To Enter Into The
Stipulation
 
Defendants also
argue that because the stipulation concerns a substantive right, the
stipulation is not enforceable/valid considering that Defendant Hertz did not consent
or agree to stipulation to liability. 
Attorneys have the authority to bind their clients “in any of the steps
of an action or proceeding by his agreement …” 
(Code Civ. Proc., § 283.) 
However, absent express authority from the client, the attorney has no
power to impair the client’s substantive rights and any such stipulation may be
set aside by the client at any time.  (Blanton
v. Womancare, Inc. (1985) 38 Cal.3d 396, 407.)  Any matter that would eliminate an essential
claim or defense is considered a substantive matter.  (In re Horton (1991) 54 Cal.3d 82, 90,
94.)
 
Both defense counsel
and Defendant Hertz provide declaratory testimony that there was no client
consent to enter the stipulation.  (See,
Woods Decl., filed 6/20/24, ¶ 12 [“I only entered into the purported
stipulation because he [sic] had the mistaken belief that I had authority to do
so.”]; Amended Dubin Decl., filed 7/17/24, ¶¶ 4-5.)  However, this testimony is at odds with the
evidence presented in opposition to the motion. 
On July 10, 2023, defense counsel, Delmas A. Woods, sent an email to
Plaintiff’s counsel indicating he would “follow up with Hertz to see if they
are willing to stipulate [to liability]”. 
(Opposition, filed 7/11/24, Krissman Decl., Ex. I.)  The next day, Mr. Woods advised that he has
“preliminary approval for a potential stipulation” and needed “one final approval
before I can confirm that the defense is willing to stipulate regarding the
lack of comparative liability”.  (Id., at
Ex. J.)  About two weeks later, on July
27, 2023, Mr. Woods reported that he spoke with Defendant Butterfield’s
personal counsel and that there was an agreement for the stipulation of fault.  (Id., at Ex. L.)  On August 17, 2023, Mr. Woods advised that he
“finally got authority from [his] client and carrier to sign the
stipulation.”  (Id., at Ex. O.)
 
Nothing in
Defendants’ replies, including the supplemental reply brief, addresses these
statements made to Plaintiff’s counsel concerning authority to enter the
stipulation on behalf of his client. 
Nothing in the moving or reply papers elaborates or addresses the manner
in which defense counsel was mistakenly led to believe that he had authority which
he did not.  The Court is left to conclude
that the requisite authority was obtained for defense counsel to enter the
stipulation. 
 
Conclusion 
 
Defendants’
motion is DENIED.  
 
Moving Party to provide notice.