  Case Number:  21STCV38730    Hearing Date:   October 12, 2023    Dept:  50 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 50
 




JOHN CHOU,
                        Plaintiff,
            vs.
AIR TIGER EXPRESS (USA) INC., et al., 
                        Defendants.


Case No.:


21STCV38730




Hearing Date:


October 12, 2023




Hearing Time:


2:00 p.m.




TENTATIVE RULING RE:
 
DEFENDANTS AIR
  TIGER EXPRESS (USA) INC. AND MATHEW TRAN’S MOTION FOR SUMMARY JUDGMENT OR, IN
  THE ALTERNATIVE, SUMMARY ADJUDICATION
 




 
 
Background
Plaintiff
John Chou (“Plaintiff”) filed this action on October 20, 2021 against
Defendants Air Tiger Express (USA) Inc. (“ATE”) and Matthew Tran (“Tran”)
(jointly, “Defendants”). The Complaint alleges causes of action for (1)
discrimination on the basis of age, (2) harassment, (3) retaliation, (4)
failure to prevent discrimination, harassment, or retaliation, and (5) wrongful
termination in violation of public policy. 
Defendants
now move for summary
judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication. Plaintiff opposes. 
Request for Judicial Notice 
The
Court grants Defendants’ request for judicial notice as to “Exhibit 4” attached
to the request. The Court denies Defendants’ request for judicial notice of the
statement in paragraph 1 of the request. The Court notes that “[a] party requesting judicial notice of
material under Evidence Code sections 452 or 453 must
provide the court and each party with a copy of the material.” (Cal.
Rules of Court, rule 3.1306, subd. (d).) Defendants
do not provide any evidence substantiating the statement set forth in paragraph
1 of the request.
Legal Standard
“[A] motion for summary judgment shall be granted if all
the papers submitted show that there is no triable issue as to any material
fact and that the moving party is entitled to a judgment as a matter of law.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (c).) “A party may
move for summary adjudication as to one or more causes of action within an
action, one or more affirmative defenses, one or more claims for damages, or
one or more issues of duty, if the party contends that the cause of action has
no merit, that there is no affirmative defense to the cause of action, that
there is no merit to an affirmative defense as to any cause of action, that
there is no merit to a claim for damages, as specified in Section 3294 of the Civil Code, or that one or more
defendants either owed or did not owe a duty to the plaintiff or plaintiffs.” (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c, subd. (f)(1).) “A motion for summary adjudication shall be granted only
if it completely disposes of a cause of action, an affirmative defense, a claim
for damages, or an issue of duty.” (Ibid.)  
The moving party bears the initial burden of production to
make a prima facie showing that there are no triable issues of material fact.
(Aguilar v. Atlantic Richfield Co. (2001) 25 Cal.4th 826, 850.) If
the moving party carries this burden, the burden shifts to the opposing party
to make a prima facie showing that a triable issue of material fact exists. (Ibid.) Courts
“liberally construe the evidence in support of the party opposing summary
judgment and resolve doubts concerning the evidence in favor of that party.” (Dore v. Arnold Worldwide, Inc. (2006) 39 Cal.4th 384, 389.) 
When a defendant seeks summary judgment or summary
adjudication, he/she must show either (1) that one or more elements of the
cause of action cannot be established; or (2) that there is a complete defense
to that cause of action. (Code Civ. Proc., § 437c,
subd. (p)(2).) 
 
 
Discussion
A.    Allegations of the Complaint 
In the Complaint,
Plaintiff alleges that he “was employed by ATE for approximately seventeen
years, beginning in or around April 23, 2003, as an Operations Clerk. Plaintiff
worked for ATE until his unlawful termination on March 31, 2020.” (Compl., ¶
14.) “In or about March of 2019, Stehanie Hang was promoted to Branch Manager
and became Plaintiffs supervisor. Stephanie Hang moved Plaintiff to the
Customer Service Department.” (Compl., ¶ 21.) “Angelita Gavino, Plaintiff's
co-worker, was also assigned to the Customer Service Department.” (Compl., ¶
21.) “In or about May 2019, Plaintiff’s co-worker Angelita Gavino asked
Stephanie Hang to
go out to lunch with both her and Matt
Tran.” (Compl., ¶ 22.) Plaintiff alleges that “during the lunch meeting, Matt
Tran stated ‘those idiot old men upstairs from accounting are pissing me off.’
Matt Tran was referring to Plaintiff and other personnel over the age of 40
years. Matt Tran further stated to Stephanie Hang that, ‘she should terminate
both John Chou and Joseph because they are both old mother fuckers.’ Matt Tran
further stated, ‘If am ever promoted, I would get rid of all the old people.’” (Compl.,
¶ 22.) 
Plaintiff alleges that “[i]n
or about November 2019, Matt Tran was promoted to Assistant Manager in Customer
Service. Matt Tran would treat Plaintiff with disdain during their
interactions, which confused Plaintiff as to why. Matt Tran would treat
Plaintiff as if he were incompetent or mimic him as being slow. Tran would
stare at Plaintiff and would otherwise intentionally try to make Plaintiff feel
uncomfortable. On several occasions Angelita Gavino overheard Matt Tran using
profanity against Plaintiff saying, ‘that old motherfucker.’” (Compl., ¶ 24.) Plaintiff
alleges that “[o]n or about February 25, 2019, Plaintiff complained to his
supervisor Stephanie Hang about Matt Tran’s discriminatory comments regarding
Plaintiffs age.” (Compl., ¶ 26.) 
Plaintiff alleges that
“[o]n or about March 20, 2020, the governor of the State of California
announced a mandatory state lockdown.” (Compl., ¶ 27.) “Defendants advised all
employees to work from home and take the company laptop home with them.
Defendants then sent out an email to all employees announcing that all
employees would be getting an 8% payroll deduction. However, neither Plaintiff
nor the older employees received a copy of this email and were not offered a
payroll reduction.” (Compl., ¶ 28.) Plaintiff alleges that [o]n or about March
23, 2020, Plaintiff (age 63) was informed that he and Angelita Gavino (age 56
with a disability), and ‘Patty’ (age 48 with a disability) were all going to be
terminated from their jobs. As a result of Plaintiffs age, and complaints of a
hostile work environment, Plaintiff was harassed, discriminated, and retaliated
against and ultimately terminated from his employment for false and pre-textual
reasons.” (Compl., ¶ 29.) 
B.     Procedural Issues 
As an initial matter, in
the opposition to the instant motion, Plaintiff states that he “requests
that the hearing date for the Motion for Summary Judgment/Adjudication be
continued to obtain facts essential to justify the opposition which may exist
but cannot, for reasons stated herein, be presented pursuant to CCP 437(c)(h).” (Opp’n at p. 2:5-7.) 
 Code of
Civil Procedure section 437c,
subdivision (h) provides
that “[i]f it appears from the affidavits submitted in opposition to a motion
for summary judgment or summary adjudication, or both, that facts essential to
justify opposition may exist but cannot, for reasons stated, be presented, the
court shall deny the motion, order a continuance to permit affidavits to be
obtained or discovery to be had, or make any other order as may be just. The
application to continue the motion to obtain necessary discovery may also be
made by ex parte motion at any time on or before the date the opposition
response to the motion is due.” 
“[A] summary judgment is a
drastic measure which deprives the losing party of trial on the merits…To mitigate summary judgment’s harshness, the
statute’s drafters included a provision making continuances--which are normally
a matter within the broad discretion of trial courts--virtually mandated…(Ibid.; Code Civ.
Proc., § 437c, subd. (h).) Where the opposing party submits an adequate
affidavit showing that essential facts may exist but cannot be presented
timely, the court must either deny summary judgment or grant a continuance.” (Dee v. Vintage Petroleum, Inc. (2003) 106 Cal.App.4th 30, 34-35
[internal quotations and citation omitted].) “To
make the requisite good faith showing, an opposing party’s declaration must
show (1) the facts to be obtained are essential to opposing the motion, (2)
there is reason to believe such facts may exist, and (3) the reasons why additional time
is needed to obtain these facts.” 
(Chavez v. 24 Hour Fitness USA,
Inc. (2015) 238 Cal.App.4th 632, 643.)  
Plaintiff contends that
here, “essential evidence exists but cannot be obtained by Plaintiff in time to
prepare an opposition to Defendants’ MSJ, due to no fault of Plaintiff.” (Opp’n
at p. 6:16-17.) In his supporting declaration, Plaintiff’s counsel states that
“[m]y office had requested
deposition dates of availability for Defendant, Matthew Tran (harasser), declarant, Stephanie Hang, Jeff Chow, and David Xiao (CEO
and decision-maker) on June 29, 2023 – the
day Defendants served their MSJ.” (Denis Decl., ¶ 3, emphasis omitted.) 
Plaintiff indicates that
on July 7, 2023, Defendants’ counsel sent an email to Plaintiff’s counsel indicating,
inter alia, as follows: “[b]oth Ms. Hang and Mr. Chow will be available
after August 15. Please let us know your availability. We previously agreed
that Mr. Tran would not be deposed until after mediations happened in both
actions, as Mr. Tran’s deposition would likely only need to happen once. Given
that the mediation in the last action was unsuccessful, please let us know if you
would like to schedule mediation in the Gavino matter before we produce Mr.
Tran. We will not schedule mediation in the Gavino matter until after you
provide a reasonable settlement demand. Mr. Xiao is an apex deposition, with no
obvious relevance. He will not be produced for deposition unless you can show
what relevant information he can offer…” (Denis Decl., ¶ 3, Ex. B.)[1]
            Plaintiff’s
counsel indicates that on September 8, 2023, they sent an email to Defendants’
counsel stating, inter alia, “[w]e still need dates for the deposition
of Stephanie Hang, Jeff Chew and Matthew Tran in order to properly ‘oppose’
Defendants’ MSJ/A…” (Denis Decl., ¶ 6, Ex. C.) Defendants’ counsel responded on
September 11, 2023, “[w]e can offer Sep 26 and 27 for the depositions of Ms
Hang and Mr Chow, unless you can do them both on one day.” (Ibid.) On September 12, 2023, Plaintiff’s
counsel sent an email to Defendants’ counsel stating, “[w]hat’s the earliest
that you can provide the depositions to oppose the MSJ? Below, you offered Sep
26 and 27 for the depositions of Ms Hang and Mr Chow. Can you offer those up
sooner?” (Denis Decl., ¶ 11, Ex. H.) Defendants’ counsel responded on September
13, 2023 stating, “[w]e could offer Mr. Chow in the morning of 9/25 and Ms.
Hang in the afternoon starting at 1 pm, if that works for your schedule. That
is the earliest they can be available.” (Ibid.) After Plaintiff’s
counsel stated “[w]e need them for full days,” Defendants’ counsel stated
“[t]hen the earliest is Mr. Chow on 9/25 and Ms. Hang on 9/26…” (Ibid.) 
            Plaintiff’s
counsel also states in his supporting declaration that “due to a major trial that I had
scheduled on 9/26/2023 in another matter which just got continued on the 26th, to ‘long cause,’ the
depositions on the 25th and
26th could not be taken because of trial/FSC preparations. Further, even if the
depositions could have been taken, Plaintiff’s
opposition to the MSJ was due September 28, 2023 and Defendants only offered September 25 and 26th, which would
have only provided 2 to 3 days from when the depositions were taken, which
would have made the deposition transcripts impossible to incorporate into the
opposition or the separate statement.” (Denis Decl., ¶ 12.) 
            Plaintiffs’
counsel asserts that “[b]ased
on the depositions of the two declarants[2]
(and additional depo of Tran, the harasser and Xiao, CEO/decision maker)
in support of the MSJ, essential evidence ‘may exist but could
not be obtained, for reasons stated, then be presented.’ The depositions of
Tran, Hang, Chow and Xiao…establish and reveal facts to
prove, inter alia: (1) Tran harassed Plaintiff, (2) Tran retaliated
against Plaintiff for reporting to HR wrongful conduct of Tran, (3)
Tran and others discriminated against Plaintiff due to Plaintiff’s age,
including being selected for Covid lay off while others were not (4)
Tran’s misconduct was not corrected by Hang, Chow, and others,
but ‘selected’ for termination (5) Complaints were filed against Tran, (6) Tran
and others within Defendant retaliated against Plaintiff and others for these
complaints, (7) Tran used ageist comments against Plaintiff as the bases
for the Complaints, (8) Many other incidents of harassment and
discrimination/retaliation by Tran/Defendants towards other employees similarly
situated to Plaintiff need to be uncovered.” (Denis Decl., ¶ 13.) In the reply,
Defendants assert that the statements in the foregoing paragraph of Plaintiff’s
counsel’s declaration “are mere conjecture or allegations that were
already testified to by Plaintiff and indeed, controverted by his own
testimony.” (Reply at p. 7:21-22.) But the Court does not find that the fact
that Plaintiff’s deposition was already conducted and that Plaintiff testified
to his claims precludes Plaintiff from seeking a continuance under Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h) here. As set forth above, “[w]here the opposing party
submits an adequate affidavit showing that essential facts may
exist but cannot be presented timely, the court must either deny summary
judgment or grant a continuance.” (Dee v. Vintage Petroleum, Inc., supra,
106 Cal.App.4th at pp. 34-35
[emphasis added].) 
            Defendants
also assert that “Plaintiff should not be granted a continuance for his
lack of diligence in this matter.” (Reply at p. 11:2.) Defendants note that
this action was filed on October 20, 2021, and assert that “Defendants have provided dates for the depositions
since December 2022.” (Reply at p. 10:3.) Defendants’
counsel’s declaration in support of the reply states, “Defendants offered Plaintiff deposition
dates for Ms. Hang and Mr. Tran in December 2022.” (Watts Decl., ¶ 3. Ex.
A.) Defendants’ counsel states that “Plaintiff did not notice the deposition of
Ms. Hang or Mr. Tran in December 2022 or thereafter.” (Watts Decl., ¶ 4.)
Defendants’ counsel further states that “[o]n April 25, 2023, the parties
agreed to schedule Mr. Tran’s deposition only after both mediations had
occurred,” and that “[t]he parties mediated this matter on May 19, 2023.” (Watts
Decl., ¶¶ 5-6.) Defendants’ counsel further states that “[a]fter the mediation,
Plaintiff did not request further dates for deposition until June 29, 2023,
when Defendants filed their motion for summary judgment.” (Watts Decl., ¶ 7.) Defendants
also assert that Plaintiff’s counsel’s declaration “fails to explain why
the depositions were not noticed for a date in August after Defendants offered
dates and the court continued this very hearing.” (Reply at p. 10:8-9.)[3]
            In the opposition, Plaintiff’s
counsel asserts that “[a]lthough…it
is anticipated that Defendant will undoubtedly argue that the depositions
could have been scheduled
sooner, Defendants will neglect to mention they placed a ‘stay’ on discovery while attempting to mediate this case, including staying
depositions, then put a condition of another mediation before offering Tran, failed to provide the
discovery (requiring pending motions to compel) to be able to complete the deposition…” (Denis Decl., ¶
15.) Plaintiff cites to Bahl v. Bank
of America (2001) 89
Cal.App.4th 389, 399, where the Court of Appeal noted that “[a]s Code of
Civil Procedure section 583.130 provides, with limited exceptions, the
policy favoring trial or other disposition of an action on the merits [is]
generally to be preferred over the policy that requires dismissal for failure
to proceed with reasonable diligence in the prosecution of an action…The denial
of a Code of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision
(h) continuance due to lack of diligence may result in the granting of a
motion for summary judgment, essentially no different from a Code of Civil
Procedure section 583.410 dismissal for delay in prosecution. In either
case, disposition on the merits is preferred. If the trial judge is faced
with a situation in which a party opposing summary judgment may have shown
minimal diligence, but the party is able to present an affidavit showing facts
essential to justify opposition may exist and explaining why they cannot then
be presented, the judge must consider other ways of handling the lack of
diligence short of summary judgment. Like Othello, trial judges should be wary
of turning a deaf ear to requests to consider more than the handkerchief of no
evidence waved by a party opposing a summary judgment continuance.” (Internal quotations omitted.) 
            Based on a
consideration of the parties’ arguments and evidence, the Court finds that a continuance is warranted pursuant to Code
of Civil Procedure section 437c, subdivision (h) to permit Plaintiff to
conduct the depositions referenced in paragraph 13 of Plaintiff’s counsel’s
declaration. (Denis Decl., ¶ 13.) 
            Conclusion                                                                          
Based on the foregoing, Defendants’
motion for summary judgment or, in the alternative, summary adjudication is
continued to Jan. 12, 2024,at 2:00 p.m. 
Plaintiff’s discovery as outlined above must
be completed by 12-15-2023.

Any opposition and reply papers
must be filed and served per Code of Civil Procedure section 
437c, subdivision (b).
Plaintiff is ordered to
give notice of this ruling.  
 
DATED:  October 12, 2023                            ________________________________
Hon. Rolf M. Treu
Judge, Los
Angeles Superior Court
 


