 Case Number:  24STCV06565    Hearing Date:   April 23, 2024    Dept:  52 Defendants Henry C. Hernandez and  Claire Barrientos’s Demurrer to Complaint  Defendants Henry C. Hernandez and  Claire Barrientos demur to the complaint by plaintiff Bellevue La Veta LLC for unlawful detainer.   Defendants’ demurrer asserts two grounds.  (Demurrer, p. 3.)  First, that “there is no lawfully verified complaint on file.”  The complaint is verified by Kora M. Smith,  who states she is plaintiff’s managing member.   (Page 9 of 11.)  Second, the  demurrer asserts the complaint fails to allege sufficient facts to  constitute a cause of action because plaintiff “failed to file a notice for a just cause eviction to the Los Angeles  Housing Department.”  Defendants provide  no authority that doing so is required nor any explanation of why failing to do  so constitutes a defect appearing on the face of the complaint. Defendants’ memorandum of points  and authorities argues “Plaintiff failed to state as to why the subject  premises is not subject to Tenant Protections Act of 2019.”  (Demurrer, p. 5.)  The complaint does just that.  It alleges the tenancy is not subject to the  Tenant Protection Act of 2019 under Civil Code section 1946.2(g)(1)(A).  (Comp., ¶ 7.a.)  That subdivision provides the Act does not  apply to “[r]esidential real property subject to a local ordinance requiring  just cause for termination of a residential tenancy adopted on or before  September 1, 2019, in which case the local ordinance shall apply.”  (Civ. Code, § 1946.2(g)(1)(A).)  The complaint further alleges defendants’  tenancy is subject to the “Rent Stabilization Ordinance of the City of Los  Angeles, 04/21/1979” and that “Plaintiff has met all applicable requirements of  the ordinances.”  (Comp., ¶ 16.)  Moreover, the complaint alleges “this action  is solely for nonpayment to of rent” (id., ¶ 6.f), which constitutes  good cause under either the Tenant Protection Act of 2019 or the City of Los  Angeles’s Rent Stabilization Ordinance.   The remainder of defendants’ memorandum  of points and authorities states various legal rules without applying them to the  complaint in this action.             Defendants Henry C. Hernandez and Claire  Barrientos’s demurrer is overruled.  Defendants  are ordered to answer within 5 days.If the parties submit to the Court's tentative, please still make your appearance on LACourtConnect  at the Trial Setting Conference.