  Case Number:  20STCV17991    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  30 NANETTE PRICE vs CAL- QUAKE CONSTRUCTION, INC., A CORPORATION, et al.Defendants' Motion to Strike First Amended ComplaintDefendant Salvatore Martinez's Motion to Strike First Amended ComplaintRuling:  Defendants Cal-Quake Construction, Inc., Salvatore Martinez, Joseph Goldberger, and John Taferner motions to strike are DENIED as to Paragraphs 16, 17 and 19, but granted as to Paragraph 18 with leave to amend within 20 days.  Moving party to give notice.Discussion:To state a claim for punitive damages under Civil Code section 3294, a plaintiff must allege specific facts showing that the defendant has been guilty of malice, oppression or fraud. (Smith v. Superior Court (1992) 10 Cal. App. 4th 1033, 1042.) The basis for punitive damages must be pled with specificity; conclusory allegations devoid of any factual assertions are insufficient. (Id.) A motion to strike may lie where the facts alleged, if proven, would not support a finding that the defendant acted with malice, fraud or oppression. (Turman v. Turning Point of Central California (2010) 191 Cal. App. 4th 53, 63.)“Malice” is defined in section 3294(c)(1) as “conduct which is intended by the defendant to cause injury” or “despicable conduct which is carried on by the defendant with a willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others.” “Oppression” is defined in section 3294(c)(2) as “despicable conduct subjecting a person to cruel and unjust hardship in conscious disregard of that person’s rights.” The term “despicable” has been defined in the case law as actions that are “base,” “vile,” or “contemptible.” (See, e.g., Shade Foods, Inc. v. Innovative Products Sales & Marketing, Inc. (2000) 78 Cal. App. 4th 847, 891.) “Fraud” is defined in section 3294(c)(3) as “an intentional misrepresentation, deceit, or concealment of a material fact known to the defendant with the intention on the part of the defendant of thereby depriving a person of property or legal rights or otherwise causing injury.”To prove that a defendant acted with “willful and conscious disregard of the rights or safety of others,” it is not enough to prove negligence, gross negligence or even recklessness. (Dawes v. Superior Court (1980) 111 Cal. App. 3d 82, 87.) Rather, a plaintiff must allege facts demonstrating that “the defendant acted in such an outrageous and reprehensible manner that the jury could infer that he [or she] knowingly disregarded the substantial certainty of injury to others.” (Id. at 90). Further, the allegations must be sufficient for a reasonable jury to conclude that Defendant’s conduct was “despicable” defined as “base, vile or contemptible.” (College Hospital Inc. v. Superior Court (1994) 8 Cal. 4th 704, 725.)The Court finds that paragraphs 16, 17, and 19 of Plaintiff Nanette Price’s FAC sufficiently allege facts that Defendants Cal-Quake Construction, Inc., Salvatore Martinez, Joseph Goldberger, and John Taferner acted with malice, oppression, or fraud to support awarding punitive damages. Plaintiff pleads that Defendants Cal-Quake Construction, Inc., Joseph Goldberger, and John Taferner either instructed Defendant Martinez to violate Vehicle Code § 20001(a) or ratified his conduct upon learning he had done so, which a jury could find to be despicable conduct and willful disregard to Plaintiff’s safety. (Plaintiff’s Complaint at p.3, ¶ 16.) Plaintiff further pleads that Defendants Cal-Quake Construction, Inc., Joseph Goldberger, and John Taferner attempted to deceive her and the police by misrepresenting that Defendant Martinez was not involved in the car crash, and destroying electronic information from the tracking and recording device in the vehicle driven by Defendant Martinez. (Id. at ¶ 17.) A jury could find this alleged conduct to be a fraudulent act intended to deprive Plaintiff of her legal rights to sue the right person. Plaintiff also pleads that Defendant Martinez’s act of fleeing the scene and Defendants Cal-Quake Construction, Inc., Joseph Goldberger, and John Taferner act of concealing Defendant Martinez’s involvement in the car crash was done intentionally and fraudulently to deprive her of property or legal rights, and with willful and conscious disregard of her safety. In this instance, a jury could find that the act of fleeing the scene of an accident together with the act of concealing the fact Defendant Martinez was involved constitutes malice and fraud.However, paragraph 18 of Plaintiff’s FAC does not sufficiently allege facts that Defendants Cal-Quake Construction, Inc., Salvatore Martinez, Joseph Goldberger, and John Taferner acted with malice, oppression, or fraud to support awarding punitive damages. Further, Plaintiff pleads that the negligence and wrongful conduct of Defendants Cal-Quake Construction, Inc., Salvatore Martinez, Joseph Goldberger, and John Taferner caused Plaintiff's injuries and damages. Yet, Plaintiff does not specify how the actions of the alleged act of concealing Defendant Martinez’s involvement caused Plaintiff's injuries and damages or how Defendant Martinez’s alleged act of fleeing the accident scene has done so.Therefore, Defendants Cal-Quake Construction, Inc., Salvatore Martinez, Joseph Goldberger, and John Taferner motions to strike is GRANTED in part and DENIED in part.