 Case Number:  20STCV20667    Hearing Date:   October 5, 2023    Dept:  30 MARIA ELENA PRADO BOLANOS vs COSTCO WHOLESALE CORPORATIONMotion to Compel FurtherMotion to Compel FurtherRuling:  Plaintiff's Motion to Compel Further Response to Request for Production (Set Four) and Plaintiff's Motion to Compel Further Response to Special Interrogatories (Set Five) are granted in part, as detailed in the below discussion. Defendant Costco is to provide supplemental responses within 20 days of date of ruling.  Requests for sanctions are denied.  Moving party to give notice.Discussion:  RFP #40:  Denied. Plaintiff's separate statement does not adequately identify what documents that Costco has identified in its responses to interrogatories that the Court should order provided.RFP #41:  Granted, in part.  The Court limits the documents to those generated from employees at the warehouse where the incident occurred within the last five years.RFP #42:  Granted, in part.   The Court limits the documents to those generated from employees at the warehouse where the incident occurred within the last five years.RFP #43:  Denied as duplicative of RFP #42.RFP #45:  Denied. Costco has sufficiently supplemented its responses to this request.RFP #46:  Denied. Objections are sustained.SROG: #128: Granted, in part. The request is limited to the quarter of the store where the incident occurred.SROG: #133: Granted, in part. The request is limited to those who viewed on the same day as the incident.SROG: #139  Granted, in part. The request is limited to the quarter of the store where the incident occurred.SROG: #140:  Granted, in part. The request is limited to the quarter of the store where the incident occurred.SROG: #141:  Granted, in part.  The request is limited to policies and procedures in place at the time of the incident.SROG: #142:  Denied. The question is ambiguous. SROG: #143  Granted.SROG: #144:  Denied. No substantial justification has been offered as to why this request should be compelled.