  Case Number:  20STCV25497    Hearing Date:   October 17, 2024    Dept:  40 Superior
Court of California
County
of Los Angeles
Department 40
 



Estate of TAT KWOK, by and through his Successor in Interest,
  CONAIL KWOK; and CONAIL KWOK, individually,
                        Plaintiff,
            v.
BRIGHTON CONVALSCENT, LLC dba BRIGHTON CARE CENTER; and DOES 1
  through 25, inclusive,
                        Defendants.
 


 Case No.:         
  20STCV25497 [Lead Case]
                           21STCV15837 [Related
  Case]
 Hearing Date:   October
  17, 2024
 Trial Date:        February
  18, 2025
 [TENTATIVE] RULING RE:
Motion to Set
  Aside Dismissal 




 


 



 
I.               
Background
A.   
Pleadings – Lead Case 20STCV25497
Plaintiff Conail Kwok (Kwok), both
as an individual and as the Successor in Interest of the Estate of Tat Kwok,
sued Defendants Riverside Equities, LLC dba Mission Care Center (Mission) and
Does 1 through 25, inclusive, pursuant to a July 3, 2024 Second Amended
Complaint alleging causes of action for (1) Elder Abuse and Neglect pursuant to
Welfare & Institutions Code sections 15600, et seq., (2) Violation of
Resident Rights pursuant to Health and Safety Code section 1430, subdivision
(b), and (3) Wrongful Death. The original complaint was filed (in Riverside
County) on August 28, 2019.
The claims arise from allegations
that Mission failed to provide adequate care for Tat Kwok and their failure to
prevent a wound in Tat Kwok’s coccyx from progressing contributed to Tat Kwok’s
death on April 28, 2019.
B. Pleadings – Related Case 21STCV15837
Plaintiff Conail Kwok (Kwok), both
as an individual and as the Successor in Interest of the Estate of Tat Kwok,
sues Defendants Brighton Convalescent, LLC, dba Brighton Care Center, (Brighton)
and Does 1 through 25, inclusive, pursuant to a November 3, 2023, First Amended
Complaint alleging causes of action for (1) Elder Abuse and Neglect pursuant to
Welfare & Institutions Code sections 15600, et seq., (2) Violation of
Resident Rights pursuant to Health and Safety Code section 1430, subdivision
(b), and (3) Wrongful Death. The original complaint was filed on April 26,
2021.
The claims arise from allegations
that Brighton failed to provide adequate care for Tat Kwok and their failure to
prevent a wound in Tat Kwok’s coccyx from progressing contributed to Tat Kwok’s
death on April 28, 2019. 
B. Relevant Procedural History
Although Kwok filed her initial
complaint in the lead action on August 28, 2019, and her initial action in the
related case on April 26, 2021, Brighton was not served until September 22,
2022. Brighton subsequently filed its Answer on November 7, 2022. 
There was no notice of related case
filed in either action and the cases proceeded independently until the Court in
the lead action was finally made aware of the second case, and the two cases
were ordered to be consolidated for trial only on July 14, 2024. This had the
effect of vacating a trial date and motion for summary judgment hearing in the
related action, resulting in delay.
Neither case has made much progress
for two main reasons. First, the lead case was abated since March 8, 2023 for
Plaintiff’s failure to join all necessary parties, specifically decedent’s
daughter Melissa Kwok Anderson and his spouse Ada Kwok. 
In October 2023, Kwok informed
Brighton’s counsel that she intended to file an amended complaint “naming the
remaining heirs as nominal defendants.” (Tramento Ex. 4.) On November 3, 2023,
Kwok filed the FAC which also included substantive changes to material
allegations. In response, Brighton filed a motion to strike. The Court ordered
the parties to submit an order stipulating that the parties agreed that Kwok
would strike the new allegations and file an amended complaint only adding the
nominal heirs. (February 15, 2024 Minute Order in 21STCV15837.) However, Kwok did
not do so.
To date, Kwok has not served the
nominal defendants to the case even in the lead matter in which she did file an
Amended Complaint to add them. Two “non service reports” were filed on
September 12, 2024, indicated repeated efforts to serve Melissa and Ada,
without success. Then, at the initial hearing on the ex parte, on October 2,
Ms. Conail Kwok admitted that both Melissa and Ada lived with her. There was no
satisfactory explanation given as to why Ms. Conail Kwok was not able to serve her
own sister and mother who she lives with and about whom she presumably knows
when they will be at home. The case is thus technically still abated.
Second, the Estate of Tat Kwok did
not have an attorney representing it for lengthy periods in the case, despite
the issue being addressed at numerous OSC hearings at which the Court
admonished Conail Kwok of her need to address the problem, and that the Estate’s
claims would be dismissed if it was not resolved.
C. Motion Before the Court
After repeated OSCs regarding the need
to substitute in counsel and to name the omitted heirs, the Court on August 29,
2024 set a further OSC on September 30, 2024 providing notice that “if the
Second Amended Complaint [in the Mission case] is not served on all Defendants
and Plaintiff is not represented by the next hearing date of 9/30/24” the case
may be dismissed. Notice was mailed to Conail Kwok, her former attorney who had
substituted out, and a subsequent attorney (Erick Young) who had made a prior
appearance at a hearing but had not been at the 8/29/24 hearing and who had not
filed a substitution of counsel form.
On September 30, 2024, the Court
granted dismissal of the action, without prejudice, for failure to add the nominal
defendants and failure to substitute in counsel. Mr. Kwok represented that she
had not yet signed the retainer agreement with her new counsel.
On October 2, 2024, Kwok, pro per, filed
an ex parte application to set aside dismissal, or alternatively, for an order
shortening the time to hear the motion. The Court set it for hearing on October
17, 2024 and provided a briefing schedule.
On October 3, 2024, Conail Kwok,
Successor in Interest to Estate of Tat Kwok, substituted in Eric Young as
counsel.
On October 10, 2024, Ramon
Healthcare Associates, dba Mission Care Center and Brighton filed separated
oppositions to the motion.
On October 15, 2024, Kwok responded,
through counsel. 
 
II. Motion
A. Requests for Judicial Notice
The Court declines to take judicial
notice of Plaintiff’s Ex Parte Application to Set Aside Dismissal Pursuant to CCP
§ 473; or, alternatively, for an Order Shortening Time to Hear Motion, which Kwok
seeks judicial notice on reply, because the Court need not take notice of
filings within its own case record. 
Judicial notice of court filings
recognizes only the fact of their filing and that the statements therein were
made; the court does not take notice of their contents’ truth. (Wolf v. CDS
Devo (2010) 185 Cal.App.4th 903, 914-915.) The facts of the documents’
filing and contentions are already in the case file.
B. Evidentiary Objections
Kwok’s evidentiary objections are
not ruled on as they are not dispositive to the motion. 
C. Legal Standard
“A motion for relief under section
473 is addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court and an appellate
court will not interfere unless there is a clear showing of an abuse.
[Citation.] The statute is remedial and should be liberally applied to carry
out the policy of permitting trial on the merits, but the moving party has the
burden of showing good cause. [Citations.]” (David v. Thayer (1980) 133
Cal.App.3d 892, 904-905.) 
Section 473 subdivision (b) of the
Code of Civil Procedure provides for both discretionary and mandatory relief
from a judgment, dismissal, and/or order or other proceeding taken against a
party through his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or excusable neglect.
(Code Civ. Proc., § 473, subd. (b) [mandatory relief more narrowly targeted to
defaults, default judgments, and dismissals]; Pagnini v. Union Bank, N.A.
(2018) 28 Cal.App.5th 298, 302.) 
The provision of section 473,
subdivision (b) provides that a court must vacate any resulting default
judgment or dismissal entered against an attorney’s client whenever an
application for relief is made no more than six months after entering of
judgment, is in proper form, and is accompanied by the attorney’s sworn
affidavit attesting to his or her mistake, inadvertence, surprise or neglect,
unless the court finds that the fault or dismissal was not in fact caused by
the attorney’s mistake, inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. (Code Civ. Proc., §
473, subd. (b).) The affidavit need only attest to the attorney’s mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect in causing the default or default
judgment—the reasons for it need not be explained. (Martin Potts &
Associates, Inc. v. Corsair, LLC (2016) 244 Cal.App.4th 432, 439.)
Attestation that one of these reasons existed is sufficient to obtain relief
unless the trial court finds that the dismissal did not occur because of these
reasons. (Graham v. Beers (1994) 30 Cal.App.4th 1656, 1660.) This is
because “the purpose of the mandatory relief provision under section 473,
subdivision (b) is achieved by focusing on who is to blame, not why.” (Martin
Potts, supra, 244 Cal.App.4th at p. 439.) 
For example, California courts have
determined that an attorney’s conscious decision not to answer a complaint on
behalf of his or her client is grounds for mandatory relief under this
statutory subdivision. (Solv-All v. Superior Court (2005) 131
Cal.App.4th 1003, 1010.) The lawyer’s negligence need not be the exclusive or
sole cause of the client’s loss so long as it was in fact a proximate cause. (Milton
v. Perceptual Develop. Corp. (1997) 53 Cal.App.4th 861, 867.) However,
mandatory relief under section 473, subdivision (b) may be denied where
dismissal [or default] resulted from intentional conduct rather than a mistake,
inadvertence, surprise, or neglect. (See Pagarigan v. Aetna U.S. Healthcare
of Cal., Inc. (2007) 158 Cal.App.4th 38, 45-46.)
D. Analysis
Kwok brings this motion on the
grounds that dismissal was entered based on mistake, inadvertence, surprise or
excusable neglect of her attorney, Eric G. Young. This position is supported by
the Declaration of Eric Young (Young Decl.) Young states that he did not
realize that the September 30, 2024 OSC hearing would proceed because he
mistakenly thought “that the issue of Kwok’s representation had been resolved.”
(App. to Set Aside, p. 2.) Young further states that his missed appearance at
the September 30, 2024 OSC and failure to complete the substitution of attorney
forms were caused by mistakes and miscommunications made by his office staff.
(App. to Set Aside, pp. 3-4.) Kwok brings this motion well within six months
after the dismissal was entered and it is accompanied by a sworn affidavit
attesting to his mistake and unfortunate health problems. (See Code Civ. Proc.,
§ 473, subd. (b).) 
However, the reply and the Declaration
of Eric Young do nothing to explain the failure to file the stipulation that
resolved the motion to strike in order to file a corrected amended complaint in
the Brighton (related) case that would add the nominal defendants. Nor does it
explain the failure to serve the nominal defendants in the Mission (lead) case
by the date specified by the Court – which had been continued for about 18
months upon repeated requests by Conail Kwok and her prior counsel. Moreover,
Mr. Young incorrectly states that the ex parte was brought to seek relief both
as to setting aside a dismissal, and for leave to file an amended complaint. (Compare
Reply at p. 3 with the Ex Parte Application.) At most, the Ex Parte Application
requested that it be ordered to file a Second Amended Complaint in order
to add the two omitted heirs. (See Proposed Order at p. 2.) Any such request (to
the extent this Court had any notice that it was being requested) was deficient,
as no proposed Second Amended Complaint was attached. (Cal. Rules of Court,
rule 3.1324 [a motion to amend a pleading before trial must include a copy of
the proposed amended pleading].) 
In any event, even had the Brighton
case been timely amended as previously ordered to add the nominal defendants,
it is undisputed that in the Mission case, they are already added. Thus, the
problem is that those heirs have never been served despite apparently numerous
efforts. (See 9/12/2024 Nonservice Reports.) That problem has not been
addressed in this ex parte application or in the reply. Thus, the Court would
have had a basis for mandatory set aside based on attorney Young’s failure to
file the substitution of attorney or be present at the hearing, if that was the
only defect. Unfortunately, it is not the only defect, and there is no
declaration providing a basis to set aside the dismissal on the second ground,
the failure to add (in the Brighton case) or serve (in the Mission case) the nominal
defendants, with whom the plaintiff admitted she lives, despite the 3 and 5
years, respectively, that these cases have been pending. 
In this case, plaintiff has repeatedly
failed to prosecute the case, despite many warnings of the Court. Thus, the
motion to set aside dismissal is DENIED. 
III. Conclusion
Plaintiff Conail Kwok’s Motion to
Set Aside Dismissal is DENIED.